-- Billionaires Dig In to Kill Good Economic Idea: William Pesek
-- William Pesek
-- 2010-06-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/billionaires-dig-in-to-kill-good-economic-idea-william-pesek.html

          
          
             Australia  is committing economic
suicide.  
 That’s what the hyperbolic backlash over  Kevin Rudd ’s
planned 40 percent tax on mining profits would have you believe.
Executives are foaming at the mouth with every free-market
cliché imaginable: the prime minister is killing the goose that
laid the golden eggs, tossing the baby out with the bathwater,
shooting the  economy  in the foot, you name it.  
 This bellyaching misses the point. The tax is the right
thing to do and miners will have to live with it.  
 We can quibble over Rudd’s clumsy introduction. The tax’s
sudden appearance and complicated mechanics left voters
scratching their heads. Yet the levy is right for three reasons.  
 One: it’s Australians’ money. Yes,  BHP Billiton Ltd. , Rio
Tinto Group and Xstrata Plc work hard digging resources out of
the ground. But this is about how 22 million people best profit
from that treasure. It’s about using the proceeds wisely and
preparing for when the iron ore and coal run out. As resource
prices surge, Australians should be using the windfall to invest
in their future.  
 Instead, we’re witnessing an infantile debate that’s all
about political point-scoring. Rich miners seem to think the
louder they yell, the stronger their argument. Supporters of the
tax haven’t been effective in countering the backlash.  
 Bad Communicator  
 Rudd is a weak communicator. We saw that with the collapse
of his planned emissions-trading system. He needed to explain
clearly to voters how putting a price on carbon would change
behavior and curb greenhouse gas emissions. Instead, he allowed
the opposition to tear apart initiatives that would have made
Australia more prosperous and competitive.  
 Now, Rudd is counting on the fact that there’s little love
for big, hugely profitable global mining  companies . It’s not
enough. His resource tax is complicated and it needs to be
explained very carefully to voters. This, after all, is hardly
the evil, capitalism-killing idea that’s been portrayed.  
 The tax would be on “super profits,” or anything over a
level deemed reasonable. Under Rudd’s proposal, the levy would
be imposed on resource-company returns that exceed the rate on
long-term Australian government bonds, currently about 6
percent. You can bet miners will fight for, and get, a higher
threshold of 10 percent or more.  
 Growing Disparity  
 Two: a “two-speed economy” isn’t realistic. Mining’s
success is leading to a growing disparity between the resource
rich states of Western Australia and Queensland and the rest of
the nation. Some might even call it a mining bubble, if property
prices in Perth are any guide.  
 The current system, focused on state royalties, is becoming
more and more outdated. It’s not producing a fair share of the
nation’s wealth for all Australians.  
 By moderating investment, the tax may also curb inflation
pressures. Chinese demand unleashed a modern-day mining boom,
boosting consumer prices. That’s prompted the central bank to
raise interest rates as other major monetary powers hold them at
historical lows. That’s hurting Australians not involved in the
mining industry.  
 It would be silly for Australia not to sell its resources
to fast-growing developing nations. Yet Australia’s future lies
more in what’s above ground: the ingenuity of its population.
The future is about ideas, innovation and education. Improved
infrastructure is also needed. Rudd’s tax could go a long way
toward financing those needs.  
 China’s Miner  
 In Sydney in February, former Bank of England policy maker
 Charles Goodhart  said something that now seems highly prescient:
Australia risks championing one industry at the expense of more
promising ones. “Is Australia happy to be a mining site for
China, or are its plans for the future bigger than that, as they
should be?” he asked.  
 Mining billionaires such as  Andrew Forrest  of Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. and  Gina Rinehart  of Hancock Prospecting Pty
Ltd. will surely disagree. But what else would you expect those
profiting most from the status quo to say?  
 Three: prospects for big change. It’s been many years since
Australia undertook complex policy reform. This coasting
contrasts sharply with the 1980s and 1990s, when import tariffs
were removed, the dollar was floated and the financial industry
opened.  
 Big Thinking  
 Rudd’s tax would be one for the history books. Should it be
defeated, it could mean the end of big economic thinking. It
could deepen entrenched divisions between political parties,
leading to a more polarized system, a la the U.S., and allow big
business to dictate government policy.  
 To see where that got the U.S., look no further than the
catastrophe at  BP Plc . Or how Wall Street giants like Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. that received government bailouts are now
fighting regulatory change that would benefit America.  
 Rudd, for all his shortcomings, is the only leader of the
developed-economy world who navigated around the global
financial crisis. That hardly makes him the clueless liberal
ideologue that right-wing pundits suggest.  
 The public-relations battle is clearly being won by the
billionaires. To listen to the miners, Rudd’s tax is an assault
on Australia’s future. No, just them and their monster profits.
Rudd is putting Australians first, and good for him.  
 ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Sydney at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        