-- Blackstone-Owned Gokaldas to Add Capacity; Shares Rise Most in Two Months
-- Jay Shankar
-- 2010-06-16T11:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/blackstone-owned-indian-exporter-to-add-garment-capacity-as-orders-revive.html

          
          
             Gokaldas Exports Ltd. , an Indian
garment manufacturer 68 percent owned by Blackstone Group LP,
plans to start making suits and industrial clothing as demand
revives in the U.S., the company’s biggest market.  
 Gokaldas, based in Bangalore, will spend 100 million rupees
($2.1 million) this year to add new capacity, said company
Executive Director  Dinesh Hinduja . Shares rose 4.4 percent, the
most since April 9, to 146.70 rupees in Mumbai, compared with a
0.3 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensex  index.  
 India’s largest garment exporter expects the U.S. to
account for more than half of its sales in the year ending March
31 as the world’s largest economy revives from the worst
recession since the Great Depression. Factories in the region
covered by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York grew at a faster
pace in June, signaling they are weathering the turmoil caused
by the European debt crisis, according to the bank’s so-called
Empire State index released yesterday.  
 “When there was a recession in the U.S. we ran to European
markets,” Hinduja said in an interview at his office in
Bangalore yesterday. “Now there’s debt crisis there and we are
looking toward the U.S. market again.”  
 Gokaldas employs 47,000 people at its 46 factories in the
Indian state of Karnataka. The European crisis has prompted
clients including  Nike Inc.,  Adidas AG’s Reebok unit, Puma AG
and Gap Inc., to ask for a 16 percent reduction in prices, which
may affect profitability, Hinduja said.  
 Gokaldas reported a net loss of 18.2 million rupees for the
year ended March 2010, compared with a profit of 34.2 million a
year earlier.  
 The New York Fed’s general economic index rose to 19.6, an
11th consecutive month of growth. U.S. manufacturers boosted
payrolls by 29,000 in May, a fifth consecutive gain, the
workweek lengthened and the average amount of overtime climbed
to the highest level in two years as production accelerated on
factory floors.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        