-- Boehringer Sex Pill May Not Aid Women, FDA Staff Say
-- Molly Peterson
-- 2010-06-16T22:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/boehringer-s-viagra-like-drug-for-women-not-safe-or-effective-fda-says.html

          
          
             Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH ’s sexual
desire drug flibanserin may not be effective or safe, according
to U.S. regulators weighing whether to approve the first pill
designed to boost women’s libidos.  
 The drug “failed to demonstrate a statistically
significant improvement” in sexual desire, Food and Drug
Administration staff said in a review released today. It was
also linked to appendicitis, depression and loss of
consciousness. Side effects led about 15 percent of women to
stop treatment with the drug, the review said.  
 While male sexual enhancement treatments led by  Pfizer
Inc. ’s Viagra facilitate erections by increasing blood flow to
the penis,  flibanserin  is designed to work in the brain.
Boehringer’s libido pill, first tested as an antidepressant,
lowers the level of one brain chemical, serotonin, and boosts
production of two others, dopamine and norepinephrin.  
 “The evidence that I’d seen about flibanserin did not seem
to suggest that it was very effective,”  Kim Wallen , a professor
of psychology and behavioral neuro-endocrinology at Emory
University in Atlanta, said today in an interview. “This isn’t
a good way to start an FDA hearing on approval of a drug.”  
 Boehringer, the world’s largest closely held drugmaker,
asked the FDA to clear its pill to treat pre-menopausal women
who suffer from  hypoactive sexual desire disorder . Outside
advisers to the FDA are scheduled to meet June 18 to review the
safety and efficacy of the drug.  
 ‘Confident’ in Drug  
 “We’re glad that we have the opportunity to discuss the
scientific data with FDA,” said Heike Specht, a spokeswoman for
Ingelheim, Germany-based Boehringer. “We are confident in the
development program and the clinical evidence supporting the
efficacy and tolerability of flibanserin.”  
 Hypoactive sexual desire disorder, defined as a drop in
libido that causes problems in relationships, affects about 10
percent of women from the ages of 30 to 60, said  John Thorp , a
professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the  University of
North Carolina School of Medicine . It is typically treated with
therapy and with prescriptions of male hormones such as
testosterone, an unapproved use, he said.  
 Taking male hormones can cause women to gain weight, grow
facial hair, and face long-term health risks, said Thorp, who
conducted Boehringer-sponsored studies of flibanserin.  
 The FDA may use a “very high safety threshold” in
deciding whether to approve flibanserin because low sexual
desire isn’t a life-threatening condition, Thorp said.  
 “I certainly see people who are so troubled by the problem
that I believe that they would accept that it’s a reasonably
safe drug to try to get some relief,” Thorp said.  
 Testosterone Patch  
 Procter & Gamble Co.  and  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. ,
developed the testosterone patch Intrinsa, which is sold in
Europe for women whose uteruses have been removed. A U.S.
version was put on hold in 2004 after an FDA advisory panel said
the drug needed more study because existing research couldn’t
rule out heart and breast cancer risks.  Warner Chilcott Plc ,
based in Ardee, Ireland, obtained Intrinsa in its August 2009
purchase of Procter & Gamble’s global pharmaceuticals unit.  
 In clinical tests of 1,378 women in North America, 48
percent of patients who took flibanserin for six months reported
improved desire, compared with 30 percent with a placebo,
Boehringer reported at a May 18 meeting of the American College
of Obstetricians and Gynecologists in San Francisco.  
 Estimated $2 Billion  
 Female libido drugs may create an annual market of at least
$2 billion, said  Stephen Simes , chief executive officer of
BioSante Pharmaceuticals Inc., in a June 9 presentation to
investors. The Lincolnshire, Illinois-based company’s Libigel, a
topical testosterone, is in the third and final stage of tests
generally required for U.S. approval.  
 Viagra had  sales  of $1.89 billion last year, including $962
million in the U.S., Pfizer said Feb. 3. Cialis generated $1.56
billion in sales last year for  Eli Lilly & Co. , including $623.3
million in the U.S., the Indianapolis-based company reported
Jan. 28.  
 “Viagra-like” drugs haven’t shown much success in women,
said  Jeffrey Jensen , a professor of obstetrics and gynecology at
Oregon Health & Science University, in a telephone interview.  
 “That’s wrapped up in a whole bunch of stuff, not just
plumbing,” Jensen said. “Treating male sexual arousal disorder
is basically just plumbing -- getting blood flow to that area.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     While male sexual enhancement treatments led by Pfizer Inc.’s Viagra facilitate erections by increasing blood flow to the penis, flibanserin is designed to work in the brain. Photographer:  JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
