-- Canada Stocks Rise as U.S. Manufacturing Beats Forecasts; Gold Shares Gain
-- Matt Walcoff
-- 2010-06-16T20:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/bombardier-ivanhoe-mines-magna-silvercorp-metals-canada-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Canadian stocks  rose for a fifth
day, the longest rally since April 26, as gold producers gained
on demand for a haven from Europe’s debt crisis and U.S.
industrial production surpassed most economists’ forecasts.  
 Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., which is developing the Oyu Tolgoi
copper mine in Mongolia with Rio Tinto Group, rose 2.5 percent
after an upgrade from TD. Goldcorp Inc., Canada’s second-largest
gold producer, climbed 1.7 percent as the metal fluctuated near
a record high. Magna International Inc., Canada’s biggest auto-
parts maker, lost 5.5 percent after the Ontario Securities
Commission called its plan to buy out its Class B shares unfair.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  climbed 13.51
points, or 0.1 percent, to 11,921.05. The S&P/TSX had advanced
4.1 percent from June 9 to yesterday as China exports, Japanese
gross domestic product and U.S. consumer confidence increased
more than most economists forecast.  
 “China’s growing really fast. The U.S. is bouncing back,”
said  Paul Ma , who manages about C$500 million ($488 million) as
a money manager at McLean & Partners in Calgary. “If Europe can
just muddle through, that’s what people are hoping for.”  
 The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Price Index has gained
for eight straight days, its longest streak in three years.
Energy and raw-materials companies make up 46 percent of
Canadian stocks by market value.  
 U.S. industrial production rose 1.2 percent, the most since
August, led by carmakers and utilities, the Federal Reserve said
today. The average economist estimate was 0.9 percent.  
 Debt Concerns  
 Bond yields increased in the most highly indebted Western
European countries, indicating investors are speculating a
default on sovereign debt is more likely. The yield on 10-year
Greek government bonds climbed 26 basis points to 9.34 percent,
the highest since May 7.  
 Precious-metals companies  gained as investors sought a
haven from a possible escalation of the debt crisis in countries
that use the euro currency. Iamgold Corp., which has operations
in Africa, South America, and Quebec, advanced 4.3 percent to
C$18.82. Goldcorp increased 1.7 percent to $45.14. Silvercorp
Metals Inc., which mines in China, climbed 5.5 percent to C$7.35
after receiving an environmental permit.  
 Canada’s two largest railroads rose after an executive from
the bigger one, Canadian National Railway Co., told a conference
second-quarter carloads were up 28 percent from last year. CN
advanced 0.6 percent to C$63.58 after touching an intraday
record C$63.95, while Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. increased
1.1 percent to C$61.35 to extend a streak of gains to seven
days.  
 Upgrade  
 Ivanhoe Mines, which owns stakes in coal, gold and base-
metal producers, rose for a sixth day, rallying 2.5 percent to
C$15.34 on the upgrade to “speculative buy” from “hold” by
TD analyst  Craig Miller . The analyst said he “would not be
surprised” if a Chinese state-owned company buys a stake in the
Oyu Tolgoi project in Mongolia. The company declined to comment.  
 Magna fell 5.5 percent to C$69.30 after the securities
regulator in Canada’s most-populous province criticized the plan
to end founder  Frank Stronach ’s control of the company. Under
the proposal to be voted on by other shareholders, the Stronach
Trust would receive $863 million in cash and Class A shares. The
OSC scheduled a hearing for June 23 at which it will consider a
halt to the share conversion.  
 BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd., which got 58
percent of its revenue from the U.S. last year, fell 2 percent
to C$63.19, erasing part of a  5.2 percent gain yesterday  on a
Wall Street Journal report saying the BlackBerry maker is
developing a tablet device. Today, handset rival Nokia Oyj cut
its sales outlook for the second quarter, citing competition in
the high-end market.  
 Brookfield Properties Corp., which owns office buildings
including New York’s World Financial Center, gained for a sixth
day, advancing 1.9 percent to C$15.80. Deloitte LLP is
negotiating with the company about moving into Merrill Lynch &
Co.’s headquarters in the Lower Manhattan complex, according to
two people familiar with the talks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        