-- BP Bonds Escape Distressed List, Trade as Junk: Credit Markets
-- Pierre Paulden
-- 2010-06-17T17:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/bp-bonds-escape-distressed-list-trade-as-junk-gross-buys-credit-markets.html

          
          
             BP Plc’s agreement to cut three
quarters of dividend payments and set up a $20 billion fund for
oil-spill victims removed the energy producer from a four-hour
stint among companies the bond market labels distressed.  
 BP ’s $750 million of 1.55 percent notes due 2011 were
trading at 94.75 cents on the dollar today after tumbling as low
as 87.9 cents yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The cost of protecting BP’s debt against default for one year
has declined to 631.4 basis points after climbing to as  high  as
1,075 yesterday, CMA DataVision prices show.  
 Spreads on bonds and default swaps tightened after BP
slashed the $10 billion-a-year dividend and agreed to create an
escrow fund to pay damages for the biggest oil spill in American
history following a meeting with President  Barack Obama . Its
bonds still traded at levels similar to junk-rated debt in the
U.S. yesterday, at least seven steps below the AA-  rating  from
Standard & Poor’s.  
 “There has been a run-up in credit-default swap spreads
that had created some uncertainties in the minds of debt
holders,” BP Chief Financial Officer  Byron Grote  said yesterday
in a conference call with investors and analysts to discuss the
reduced dividend and victims’ escrow account. “This will create
a calming effect.”  
 Pimco’s Gross Buys  
 BP bonds were the most active in U.S. trading yesterday,
Trace data show. The manager of the world’s largest bond fund,
 Bill Gross , recently bought $100 million of shorter-maturity BP
debt, Pacific Investment Management Co. spokesman  Mark Porterfield  wrote yesterday in an e-mail.  
 Gross, co-chief investment officer at Pimco in Newport
Beach, California, also bought notes of The Woodlands, Texas-
based Anadarko Petroleum Corp., owner of a 25 percent stake in
the well that has been spewing oil into the Gulf of Mexico since
April 20.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds instead of government debt was
unchanged at 198 basis points, or 1.98 percentage point, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index
shows. Yields averaged 4.114 percent.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. may sell $1 billion of five-year notes
as soon as today, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The debt may price to yield 145 basis points, or
1.45 percentage point, more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
said the person, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  
 Caterpillar Sale  
 Caterpillar Financial Services Corp., the finance unit of
the world’s biggest maker of bulldozers and excavators, sold
$300 million of 2.75 percent, five-year notes, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The notes pay a spread of 77 basis
points, Bloomberg data show.  
 An indicator of corporate credit risk in the U.S. and
Canada fell today to the lowest this month. The Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index Series 14, which investors use to
hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declined 2.8 basis points to a mid-price of
114.8 basis points as of 1:09 p.m. in New York, the lowest since
May 31, according to Markit Group Ltd. The index typically falls
as investor confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  
 ‘Deeply Sorry’  
 BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  said he’s “deeply
sorry” for the Gulf rig explosion before testifying before
Congress today. Later, he told lawmakers he didn’t take part in
decisions on drilling the well.  
 “I wasn’t involved in any of that decision making,”
Hayward said at a hearing of a House Energy Committee
panel. “It’s clear that there were some discussions among the
engineering team and that an engineering judgment was taken.”  
 BP will increase asset  sales  to $10 billion from between $2
billion and $3 billion, according to bond analyst  Philip Adams 
at Gimme Credit LLC in Chicago. The “cash conservation moves”
over the next year are about $16 billion to $18 billion,
compared with an escrow obligation of about $7.5 billion, he
wrote in a note to investors.  
 Still, BP  debt investors  are concerned the company, one of
the world’s largest energy traders, will face a cash squeeze
from liabilities for and potential collateral calls on its oil
and currency trades. BP had $6.84 billion in cash and near-cash
as of the end of the first quarter, according to a regulatory
filing.  
 Risk Management  
 BP uses derivatives to hedge its exposure to energy price
swings and to take proprietary positions, according to its 2009
annual report. “The contracts may be entered into for risk
 management  purposes, to satisfy supply requirements or for
entrepreneurial trading,” the company document says.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own BP’s notes due
August 2011 instead of similar-maturity Treasuries reached as
high as 1,257 basis points in New York yesterday, before falling
to 572 basis points as of 12:50 p.m. today in New York, Trace
data show. They traded at 804 basis points June 15. Spreads of
more than 1,000 basis points are considered distressed.  
 The average spread for companies rated in the highest tier
of speculative-grade is 527 basis points, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  
 “The danger is BP might run out of cash,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of credit strategy at Evolution Securities Ltd. in
London. “Much will depend upon its relationship and contractual
agreements with its bankers but if it gets through the next 18
months, it probably will survive.”  
 BP’s largest category of derivatives is related to natural
gas prices, followed by contracts based on oil prices. The
company also has exposure to currency and interest-rate
derivatives.  
 “I’m not aware we’ve had to scale back trading,” said
 Toby Odone , a BP spokesman.  
 Spreads on BP bonds narrowed 52 basis points yesterday to
601 basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. The bonds have lost 13.4 percent this month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
 Pierre Paulden  in New York at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The BP Plc company logo sits at a fuel station in London. Photographer: Frantzesco Kangaris/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee from Washington about President Barack Obama’s response to the oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico, and the six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling.
     Obama said BP Plc's will put $20 billion over four years into an oil spill compensation fund that will be independently administered by lawyer Kenneth Feinberg. The fund won’t cap BP’s liability for cleanup costs and economic damage, Obama said after he and some of his top advisers met with BP executives at the White House, and it won’t supersede the rights of individuals or states to sue the company. The company also will contribute $100 million to a fund to help support unemployed oil rig workers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
