-- BP, White House Escrow-Fund Deal Is Said to Stall Over Size, Supervision
-- Stanley Reed
-- 2010-06-16T01:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/bp-escrow-fund-deal-with-u-s-said-to-stall-before-obama-meets-executives.html

          
          
             BP Plc  and the Obama administration
have failed to agree on an escrow fund covering cleanup costs
and claims stemming from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, people
familiar with the negotiations said.  
 The lack of an agreement raises the stakes for a scheduled
meeting of President  Barack Obama  with BP Chief Executive
Officer  Tony Hayward  and Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  at the
White House today.  
 The two sides continue to negotiate over issues including
the size of the fund, who would administer it and whether BP
shareholders would have to approve the transfer of money
required for the account, according to the people, who asked not
to be identified describing the private talks.  
 “Tomorrow, I will meet with the chairman of BP and inform
him that he is to set aside whatever resources are required to
compensate the workers and business owners who have been harmed
as a result of his company’s recklessness,” Obama said in a
speech from the Oval Office last night.  
 “And this fund will not be controlled by BP,” Obama said.
“In order to ensure that all legitimate claims are paid out in
a fair and timely manner, the account must and will be
administered by an independent, third party,” he said.  
 The president’s tone differed from two days ago, when he
said during a visit to the Gulf that the two sides were having a
“constructive conversation” and that he hoped progress would
be made by today’s meeting.  
 Stopping the Leak  
 In his speech, Obama said he had directed BP to devote
additional technology and equipment to stopping the leak, the
worst in U.S. history. Those efforts should capture as much as
90 percent of the leaking oil “in the coming weeks and days,”
he said.  
 The Gulf well is gushing as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a
day, the government said yesterday, raising for the fifth time
an official estimate that began at 1,000 barrels a day in April.  
 “We share the president’s goal of shutting off the well as
quickly as possible,” BP said in a statement after the speech.
“We look forward to meeting with President Obama for a
constructive discussion.”  
 How the administrator for the escrow fund would be
selected is part of the negotiations with London-based BP, and
the president’s aides consider today’s talks crucial to
resolving differences, according to an administration official
who briefed reporters yesterday on condition of anonymity.  
 First Meeting  
 The meeting will be Obama’s first with the BP executives
since a company-leased rig exploded on April 20 and collapsed,
killing 11 workers.  
 White House Adviser  David Axelrod  called on June 13 for BP
to establish an escrow account for claims tied to the spill.
Lawmakers led by Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, have said BP should establish a $20 billion fund.  
 BP has spent about $1.6 billion to stop the leak, clean up
the oil, and compensate local businesses and residents.  
 Lamar McKay , president of BP America Inc., told a House
committee hearing yesterday that the escrow issue remained
unresolved.  
 “I don’t think any decisions have been made on a trust
account,” McKay said. “We’re going to pay all legitimate
claims, so a decision on whether to do a trust fund or account
hasn’t been made yet.”  
 BP shares have dropped 48 percent since the spill. They
fell 3.8 percent to 342 pence in London trading yesterday, the
lowest price since April 1997.  
 Fitch Ratings cut BP’s credit rating six notches yesterday
to two levels above junk on concern over the potential cost of
cleaning up the spill and meeting future liabilities.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stanley Reed  in Washington at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama speaks during a nationally televised address from the White House in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Tuesday, June 15, 2010. Photographer: Jim Lo Scalzo/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Gordon, a lawyer with Weitz & Luxenberg, talks with Bloomberg's Carol Massar and Matt Miller about the individual claims process stemming from the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A BP Plc contractor worker pulls up an oil-soaked absorbent boom in Bay Ronquille off the coast of Grand Isle, Louisiana. BP Plc and the Obama administration have failed to agree on an escrow fund covering cleanup costs and claims stemming from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, people familiar with the negotiations said. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
