-- BP Said to Agree on $20 Billion Fund for Oil Spill
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-06-16T17:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/bp-is-said-to-agree-on-20-billion-escrow-fund-for-gulf-oil-spill-damages.html

          
          
             BP Plc  tentatively agreed to put
about $20 billion over time into a fund to pay damages resulting
from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, with claims administered by
the lawyer who oversaw executive compensation under the
government’s financial bailout, people familiar with the talks
said.  
 The agreement was worked out in a White House meeting today
between company executives, including Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg , and President  Barack Obama  and his top advisers.  
 Kenneth Feinberg , who also oversaw the fund that paid
families of the Sept. 11 attacks, will act as an independent
third party to judge claims and authorize payments to Gulf Coast
residents affected by the biggest oil spill in U.S. history.  
 The meeting, which included BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward ,  Lamar McKay , president of BP America Inc., and company
lawyers, ran at least three hours, delaying a statement by Obama
originally scheduled for 12:15 p.m. Washington time.  
 In a nationally televised address last night, the president
vowed he would make BP set aside however much is needed to
“compensate the workers and business owners who have been
harmed as a result of his company’s recklessness.”  
 BP was down 52 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $30.92 as of 1:08
p.m. in New York. Shares are down almost 48 percent from the
April 20 explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig
that killed 11 workers and triggered the oil spill.  
 No Limits  
 Earlier today,  David Axelrod , Obama’s senior adviser, said
there is no limit on the so-called escrow account.  
 “There’ll be no upward cap there. If they owe more money,
they’ll have to pay more money,” Axelrod said on NBC’s
“Today” show. “This is not a get-out-of-the-situation-free
card.”  
 Obama also named Feinberg in June 2009 to oversee executive
pay at companies that received aid from the Treasury
Department’s $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program.  
 He is managing partner of law firm Feinberg Rozen LLP in
Washington. Feinberg, 64, has spent his career resolving legal
claims, including settlements for those affected by the
defoliant Agent Orange in Vietnam, the Dalkon Shield birth-
control device, and the 2007 Virginia Tech shooting that killed
32 people.  
 Congressional Pressure  
 The amount for the fund is in line with what Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, had suggested
that BP set aside to compensate residents and businesses
affected by the spill, which is threatening the shoreline of
four states.  
 The government yesterday increased its estimate of the
amount of oil gushing from a damaged BP well to 35,000 to 60,000
barrels a day.  
 Based on the low end of the estimate, the BP well may have
leaked 1.99 million barrels so far. That exceeds the 262,000
barrels spilled by the Exxon Valdez in 1989 and the U.S. record
300,000-barrel spill by a tanker off the Oregon coast in 1968,
according to statistics from the American Petroleum Institute.  
 Obama called the BP leak “the worst environmental disaster
America has ever faced.”  
 BP has spent about $1.6 billion on containing and cleaning
up the spill so far. The London-based company’s spending for
cleanup and liabilities may reach $40 billion, Standard
Chartered Plc estimated last week.  
 BP Forecast  
 BP is unlikely to pay a cash dividend in the second and
third quarters,  Bloomberg forecasts  show. BP spokeswoman  Sheila Williams  said no decision on the second-quarter dividend has
been made.  
 BP’s payments accounted for about 14 percent of all
dividends in the U.K.’s FTSE 100 stock index last year. Fitch
Ratings yesterday lowered BP’s  credit rating  by six grades
yesterday to BBB, two levels above junk, on concern that costs
will escalate.  
 BP had $5 billion of cash available, $5.25 billion of
credit lines it hadn’t used and another $5.25 billion of stand-
by bank facilities, the company said in an investor conference
call June 4. Fitch said yesterday it expects BP’s lenders to let
the company use the credit lines if needed.  
 BP generated $27.7 billion in cash flow from operations
last year and  posted profits  of $6 billion in the first quarter.
Capital spending will total about $20 billion, the company said
in a strategy presentation.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rruningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An agreement was worked out in a White House meeting between BP executives including Chairman Carl-Henric Svanberg and President Barack Obama and his top advisers. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
