-- BP May Continue Slide After Breaching 50% Fibonacci: Technical Analysis
-- Alexis Xydias
-- 2010-06-16T11:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/bp-may-continue-drop-beyond-50-fibonacci-retracement-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             BP Plc shares, which have plunged 47
percent since April, breached a key support level that technical
analysts who follow Fibonacci retracements say indicates the
slide may continue.  
 BP, which President  Barack Obama  last night accused of
“recklessness” in causing the worst oil spill in U.S. history,
yesterday fell below 347 pence, the 50 percent Fibonacci
retracement between its 48.49 pence low in August 1992 and this
year’s high of 646.94 pence on April 21, after adjusting for
dividend payments. The next Fibonacci support level, or floor,
is near 277 pence.  
 “It’s in freefall, there is no sign of a base,” said
 Robin Griffiths , a technical analyst at Cazenove Capital
Management Ltd. in London. “We can’t yet say you should be
buying BP. The moment someone says ‘we’ve stopped the leak,’
then we can start estimating the losses. But with the President
doing what he is doing, you don’t have a hope.”  
 Fibonacci analysis assumes markets retrace earlier patterns
in specific stages. A Fibonacci retracement level is created by
taking two extreme points on a stock chart and sub-dividing a
market’s prior trend by key Fibonacci ratios of 38.2 percent, 50
percent and 61.8 percent. If a price breaks through one of the
levels, it may signal a move toward the next resistance or
support point.  
 BP’s  current price is also near the 328.24 level from which
the shares doubled in October 2008. The stock  rose  0.6 percent
to 339.95 pence as of 12:35 p.m. in London, after earlier
slipping to 338 pence.  
 Obama, speaking in a national address from the Oval Office,
vowed that London-based  BP  will be required to spend whatever is
needed to repair damage caused by the spill in the Gulf of
Mexico, as the U.S. government said the well is gushing as much
as 60,000 barrels of oil a day.  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Jason Kenney, head of oil and gas research at ING Commercial Banking, talks about investment opportunity in BP Plc's stock.
     Kenney also discusses the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and the BP's operations in the U.S. Kenney talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Hans Nichols reports on President Barack Obama's national address on Tuesday about BP Plc's oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Obama said the spill is an urgent call for action to cut U.S. dependence on fossil fuels and vowed that BP will be required to spend whatever is needed to repair damage caused by the company’s "recklessness." The oil gushing from a damaged BP well in the Gulf is threatening the shores of four states, and a team of scientists yesterday raised the estimate of the leak rate to 35,000 to 60,000 barrels a day. Bloomberg's Mark Barton also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee from Washington about President Barack Obama’s response to the oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico, and the six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling.
     Obama said BP Plc's will put $20 billion over four years into an oil spill compensation fund that will be independently administered by lawyer Kenneth Feinberg. The fund won’t cap BP’s liability for cleanup costs and economic damage, Obama said after he and some of his top advisers met with BP executives at the White House, and it won’t supersede the rights of individuals or states to sue the company. The company also will contribute $100 million to a fund to help support unemployed oil rig workers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
