-- BP Reduces Jobs at $3.8 Billion Oil Refinery Expansion, Contractor Says
-- Joe Carroll
-- 2010-06-16T17:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/bp-reduces-jobs-at-3-8-billion-oil-refinery-expansion-contractor-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc  is trimming jobs at a $3.8
billion expansion of the largest refinery in the U.S. Midwest,
according to a construction firm involved in the project.  
 Pipefitters, laborers and other construction workers are
being dismissed from the project at BP’s Whiting, Indiana, plant
about 20 miles (32 kilometers) southeast of downtown Chicago,
said Tim Cuson, vice president of  Superior Construction Co. , a
contractor on the expansion. He said as many as six construction
and engineering companies have been affected.  
 The expansion, which is BP’s costliest ongoing refining
project worldwide, entered its “peak construction phase” this
year, employing 3,500 people, said  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman.
Employment fluctuates as each phase is finished, he said.  
 The spending plan hasn’t been affected by costs related to
the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and the expansion is on track to
finish by its 2012 deadline, he said.  
 “They were spending a lot of money on this project early
in the year but now they’re cutting back,” said Superior’s
Cuson, whose Gary, Indiana-based company accounts for 10 percent
of the outside workforce on the refinery-expansion job.  
 Cuson said he didn’t know how many layoffs had been ordered
or how long they may persist. He declined to say how many
workers from his company were sent home.  
 BP’s bill to fight the spill off the Louisiana coast, sop
up the crude and compensate Gulf Coast residents has topped $1.6
billion since the April 20 blast aboard a rig that killed 11
workers.  
 BP has lost almost half its  market value  in the eight weeks
since the blast triggered a leak almost a mile beneath the sea
surface that has been gushing oil ever since. The London-based
company’s liabilities may reach $37 billion, Credit Suisse Group
AG has said.  
 Yields, Dividends  
 Investors are demanding higher yields to hold BP debt, an
indication that concern is mounting that the company won’t be
able to pay what it owes.  
 The company may also be forced to suspend its $10 billion
dividend to satisfy President  Barack Obama ’s demand for an
escrow account to compensate victims, analysts said. Bloomberg
forecasts show that BP is unlikely to pay a cash dividend in the
second and third quarters. The company has tentatively agreed to
place $20 billion in escrow, a person familiar with the talks
said today.  
 BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  and Chief Executive
Officer  Tony Hayward  met with Obama today in Washington to
discuss the leak, which is spewing enough crude to fill a
supertanker every 33 days.  
 Drilling Moratorium  
 The explosion and spill prompted the Interior Department,
which oversees oil production in federal waters, to impose a
six-month ban on exploratory drilling. The moratorium idled 33
rigs leased by companies such as Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron
Corp. and Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  
 BP is upgrading its 119-year-old refinery on the southern
shore of Lake Michigan to process more heavy crude from Canada’s
oil sands, according to the company’s website. The expansion
will enable the plant to boost daily gasoline production by 1.7
million gallons, which at current retail prices would be worth
$1.68 billion a year.  
 “You’re going to hear about people from specialist firms
coming and going, and it’s related to different phases of the
project,” Dean said in a telephone interview. “The project
continues to move forward.”  
 BP acquired the Indiana refinery as part of its $61.7
billion purchase of Amoco Corp. in 1998. The project, which is
scheduled to last through 2012, involves construction of a new
coker, distillation unit and sulfur-removal equipment.  
 The plant can process 405,000 barrels of crude a day,
according to a public company filing.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Washington at  jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        