-- BP's Svanberg, Hayward Arrive for Obama Meeting
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-06-16T15:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/bp-s-svanberg-hayward-arrive-for-obama-meeting.html

          
          
             BP Plc  Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  and Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  arrived at
the White House this morning for a meeting with President
 Barack Obama  and his senior advisers intended to hammer out a
plan for compensating Gulf Coast residents.  
 The Obama administration doesn’t expect  BP  to agree to any
compensation fund that would undermine the company’s viability,
a White House official said today.  
 The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said
the administration expects to make progress on settling issues
related to setting up an escrow fund to cover cleanup costs and
claims stemming from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Obama wants
the claims handled by an independent third party.  
 Obama planned to attend the meeting for about 20 minutes
at the start and is scheduled to make a statement from the Rose
Garden at 12:15 p.m. Washington time.  
 Svanberg and Hayward were accompanied by  Lamar McKay ,
president of BP America Inc.,  Robert Dudley , BP managing
director, and company lawyers. Among the administration
officials in the meeting are  Lawrence Summers , head of the
National Economic Council,  Bob Bauer , chief lawyer to the
president, and  Carol Browner , the president’s adviser on energy
and climate change.  
 BP fell $1.55, or 4.9 percent, to $29.85 at 10:48 a.m. in
New York. It has fallen 50 percent since the April 20 explosion
aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that killed 11
workers and trigger the oil spill.  
 Compensation Fund  
 David Axelrod , Obama’s senior adviser, said today there is
no limit on the compensation fund.  
 “There’ll be no upward cap there,” Axelrod said on NBC’s
“Today” show. “If they owe more money, they’ll have to pay
more money. This is not a get-out-of-the-situation-free card.”  
 At issue is the size of the fund, the naming of a person
to administer it and whether BP shareholders would have to
approve the transfer of money required for the account,
according to people familiar with the situation, who asked not
to be identified describing the private talks.  
 “We believe we have the authority to compel” creation of
a compensation fund administered by a third party, Axelrod said
on NBC.  
 BP ‘Recklessness’  
 Obama said in a nationally televised address yesterday
from the Oval Office that he will inform Svanberg “that he is
to set aside whatever resources are required to compensate the
workers and business owners who have been harmed as a result of
his company’s recklessness.”  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, has
suggested that BP set aside $20 billion for the fund.  
 BP has spent about $1.6 billion on containing and cleaning
up the spill so far. The London-based company’s spending for
cleanup and liabilities may reach $40 billion, Standard
Chartered Plc estimated last week.  
 BP is unlikely to pay a cash dividend in the second and
third quarters,  Bloomberg forecasts  show. BP spokeswoman  Sheila Williams  said no decision on the second-quarter dividend has
been made.  
 BP’s payments accounted for about 14 percent of all
dividends in the U.K.’s FTSE 100 stock index last year. Fitch
Ratings yesterday lowered BP’s  credit rating  by six grades to
BBB, two levels above junk, on concern that costs will
escalate.  
 BP had $5 billion of cash available, $5.25 billion of
credit lines it hadn’t used and another $5.25 billion of stand-
by bank facilities, the company said in an investor conference
call June 4. Fitch said yesterday it expects BP’s lenders to
let the company use the credit lines if needed.  
 BP generated $27.7 billion in cash flow from operations
last year and  posted profits  of $6 billion in the first
quarter. Capital spending will total about $20 billion, the
company said in a strategy presentation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net 
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BP CEO Tony Hayward will be meeting with President Barack Obama. Photographer: Sean Gardner/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Anastasia Haydulina reports on the likelihood of BP Plc Chairman Carl-Henric Svanberg keeping his job as he meets today with President Barack Obama.
     Obama vowed that BP will be required to spend whatever is needed to repair damage caused by the company’s “recklessness.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
