-- BP Dividend `Off the Table' as Obama Demands Gulf Spill Fund
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-06-16T14:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/bp-will-suspend-dividend-as-obama-demands-gulf-clean-up-fund-analysts-say.html

          
          
             BP Plc will suspend its $10 billion
dividend as President  Barack Obama ’s demand to set aside cash
for the Gulf of Mexico spill stretches the company’s finances,
analysts said.  
 “The dividend is off the table,” said  Alastair Syme , an
oil and gas analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in London. “Until
they have some clarity on the costs of the spill, they can’t do
anything.”  
 BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  will meet Obama at the
White House today to discuss how to compensate victims of the
spill after Obama in an Oval Office address yesterday called for
creation of a fund. Lawmakers, who will question Chief Executive
Officer  Tony Hayward  tomorrow, have said the company should
suspend the dividend and put $20 billion in an independently
administered escrow account to pay claims.  
 Bloomberg  forecasts  show that BP is unlikely to pay a cash
dividend in the second and third quarters. BP’s payments
accounted for about 14 percent of all dividends in the U.K.’s
benchmark FTSE 100 stock index last year. Fitch Ratings
yesterday lowered BP’s credit score by six grades to BBB, two
levels above junk, on concern costs will escalate.  
 The cost of protecting BP debt for one year rose 432.5
basis points to 1,075, according to CMA DataVision prices for
credit-default swaps.  
 ‘Through the Storm’  
 “Hayward’s response to the president is very important,
and the dividend could be fairly easy to give,” said  Gudmund Halle Isfeld , an analyst at DnB NOR ASA in Oslo. “If I were an
investor, I would say it’s okay to suspend the dividend for a
quarter or two to ensure the company gets through the storm.”  
 BP spokeswoman  Sheila Williams  said no decision on the
second-quarter dividend has been made.  
 Fitch said it would be “surprised” if BP didn’t suspend
the quarterly payout until the full costs are known. Cleanup and
liabilities may reach $40 billion, Standard Chartered Plc
estimated last week.  
 “It’s not financially obvious how they could set up an
escrow, given their credit rating and lack of access to credit
markets,” Nomura’s Syme said. “It’s in the interest of BP to
do something rather than nothing but they’re constrained by
liquidity.”  
 Credit investors are pricing in a more than 39 percent
chance BP will default within five years. The rising risk
implied by credit-default swaps is up from 7 percent a month
ago, according to CMA DataVision.  
 Credit Lines  
 BP had $5 billion of cash available , $5.25 billion of
credit lines it hadn’t used and another $5.25 billion of stand-
by bank facilities, BP said in an investor conference call June
4. Fitch said yesterday it expects BP’s lenders to allow the
company to use the credit lines if needed.  
 BP generated $27.7 billion in cash flow from operations
last year and posted  profit  of $6 billion in the first quarter.
Capital spending will total about $20 billion the company said
in this year’s strategy presentation.  
 The company has spent about $1.6 billion on containing and
cleaning up the spill so far.  
 If BP maintains its dividend this year at the 2009 level
the dividend yield, or annual payout as a percentage of the
current share price, will be more than 10 percent. That compares
to 2.8 percent for Exxon Mobil Corp. and 5.9 percent for Royal
Dutch Shell Plc.  
 “BP has the strength of balance sheet and free cash flow
to sustain dividends at existing levels for now,”  Collins Stewart  analyst  Gordon Gray  wrote in a note today. “However,
the rising level of public anger in the U.S., including pressure
for BP to establish an escrow account for spill compensation,
now point to the likelihood that BP will not pay a cash dividend
for the second quarter.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BP Chairman Carl-Henric Svanberg will meet Obama to discuss compensation for the victims of the oil spill. Photographer: Stephen Hilger/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Anastasia Haydulina reports on the likelihood of BP Plc Chairman Carl-Henric Svanberg keeping his job as he meets today with President Barack Obama.
     Obama vowed that BP will be required to spend whatever is needed to repair damage caused by the company’s “recklessness.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
