-- Brazilian Interest-Rate Futures Yields Decline on April Retail Sales Data
-- Paulo Winterstein
-- 2010-06-16T15:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/brazilian-interest-rate-futures-yields-decline-on-april-retail-sales-data.html

          
          
             Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate
futures contracts fell for the first time in eight days after
April retail sales slowed more than expected, easing speculation
the central bank will need to boost borrowing costs.  
 The yield on the contract due in January, the most traded
in Sao Paulo, slid two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 11.21 percent at 11:43 a.m. New York time. The yield had
risen 31 basis points since June 4.  
 Brazil’s retail sales fell 3 percent in April from March,
the national statistics agency said today. Analysts forecast a
decline of 1.5 percent, according to the median of 27 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Prices as measured by the IPC-S index
unexpectedly fell last week, the Getulio Vargas Foundation said
today in a separate report. The index dropped 0.04 percent,
while economists expected a climb of 0.05 percent, according to
the median of 14 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “The market has been focused on IPC and economic activity,
and when you see signs of slackening, which is what was shown
today, the market calms down a bit,” said  Paulo Nepomuceno , a
fixed-income strategist at Coinvalores CCVM, who helps manage
430 million reais ($240.9 million) in assets.  
 Brazil’s real gained for a second day, adding 0.2 percent
to 1.7846 per dollar, the strongest level on a closing basis
since May 13, from 1.7875 yesterday. Investors are speculating
that share sales by state-controlled oil company Petroleo
Brasileiro SA and state-controlled lender Banco do Brasil SA
will boost demand for the currency, Nepomuceno said in a phone
interview.  
 “These planned share sales by Petrobras and Banco do
Brasil will bring in a lot of money,” he said. “We’ve been
accompanying the euro and the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso,
but as those improve, we’ll likely gain a lot more.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paulo Winterstein  in Sao Paulo at 
 pwinterstein@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        