-- Brazil's Retail Sales Drop at Record Pace, Prompting Fall in Rate Futures
-- Matthew Bristow
-- 2010-06-16T16:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/brazil-s-retail-sales-drop-at-record-pace-prompting-fall-in-rate-futures.html

          
          
             Brazil’s  retail sales  dropped by a
record in April, prompting traders to trim bets on increases to
the central bank’s benchmark interest rate.  
 Sales  fell 3 percent from the previous month, the most
since the monthly series began in 2000, the national statistics
agency said today in Rio de Janeiro. The decline was more than
the median forecast of a 1.6 percent decrease by 27 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, and may be a sign that the expansion is
moderating in Latin America’s largest economy.  
 Yields on interest-rate futures contracts maturing after
October 2010 fell today, with the January 2012 contract dropping
5 basis points to 12.23 percent. Central bank policy makers in
July may raise the benchmark rate for a third consecutive
meeting in an effort to contain inflation, according to a
central bank survey of economists published last week.  
 “The central bank isn’t going to look at just one
figure,” said Jankiel Santos, chief economist at Banco Espirito
Santo de Investimento, in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.
“Given the favorable conditions in the labor market, it’s going
to prove just a temporary event, rather than the beginning of a
new downward trend.”  
 April sales rose 9.1 percent from the same month a year
ago, down from a 15.7 percent year-on-year increase in March,
the most since the yearly series began in 2001. The April figure
was lower than the 10.1 percent median estimate of 29 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Debt Crisis  
 The retail slowdown is “a natural movement and an
accommodation following the strong rise in the first quarter,”
said  Luciano Rostagno , chief Brazil strategist at Madrid-based
CM Capital Markets. The one thing that might cause the central
bank to limit its July rate rise would be a worsening in the
European debt crisis, Rostagno said in a telephone interview
from Sao Paulo.  
 Brazil’s central bank raised its benchmark interest rate
for a second straight meeting on June 9 to contain  inflation 
that may remain above the government’s 4.5 percent target
through 2011.  
 Policy makers raised the Selic rate to 10.25 percent from
9.5 percent and are likely to increase borrowing costs to 11
percent in July, according to the central bank survey. Tomorrow
the bank will publish the minutes of its latest meeting.  
 Weaker April retail sales data signal a moderation in
growth from unsustainable levels, said  Marcelo Carvalho , Morgan
Stanley’s chief economist in Sao Paulo. A tight labor market,
credit growth and strong consumer confidence will continue to
underpin retail sales, Carvalho said in an e-mail interview.  
 Jobless Rate  
 Brazil’s  unemployment  rate fell to 7.3 percent in April,
from 7.6 percent in March. In May consumer confidence rose to
its highest level since March 2008, according to a survey of
2,000 households published by the Getulio Vargas Foundation.  
 The month-on-month retail sales decline may have been
distorted by businesses closing for the Easter holiday in early
April and by pre-Easter consumer spending in late March, said
 Neil Shearing , an emerging markets economist at London-based
Capital Economics.  
 Brazil’s economy grew 9 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, the fastest annual rate since 1995 and behind only
China among major emerging markets.  
 Fast Growth  
 The fast growth has raised fears that the economy may be
overheating. RBC Capital Markets raised its forecast for 2010
growth to 7.7 percent, from 6 percent previously, in a report
published yesterday. Morgan Stanley increased its 2010 Brazil
growth forecast to a “Chinese-like” 7.9 percent from a
previous 6.8 percent estimate in its June 14 report.  
 If slower growth in China and falling commodities prices do
not cool the economy, the central bank will have to, Morgan
Stanley said.  
 Economists covering Brazil cut their forecasts for 2010
inflation for the second consecutive week, according to a
central bank survey published June 14. Annual inflation will end
2010 at 5.61 percent, according to the median forecast of about
100 economists, compared with a forecast of 5.64 percent in the
previous week’s survey.  
 Faster growth is taking place as the government increases
cash payments to 8.4 million pensioners. Yesterday, President
 Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva signed into law a higher-than-planned
7.7 percent increase in pension payments. The measure will be
offset by 1.6 billion reais in spending cuts in other areas.  
 Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa stock index was little changed
at 11:20 a.m. New York time. It has declined 6.1 percent in 2010
after gaining 83 percent last year, the biggest yearly gain
since 2003. The real rose 0.1 percent to 1.7851 per dollar from
1.7875 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        