-- BroadSoft Prices Initial Offering at Bottom of Forecast Range; Shares Drop
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-06-16T20:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/broadsoft-prices-initial-offering-at-bottom-of-forecast-range-shares-drop.html

          
          
             BroadSoft Inc.  raised $67.5 million
in an initial public offering, becoming the second U.S. company
to price an IPO within its forecast range this week. The shares
retreated 7.8 percent in their first day of trading.  
 The Gaithersburg, Maryland-based maker of software enabling
businesses to use voice services over the Internet sold 7.5
million shares at $9 each yesterday after offering them for $9
to $11, according to a company statement and a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 BroadSoft’s deal came after  CBOE Holdings Inc.  priced a
$339 million offering at the top of the forecast range on June
14 and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  erased its loss for the
year. At least 34 companies worldwide had postponed or withdrawn
IPOs since the beginning of May as the European debt crisis sent
the S&P 500 down as much as 14 percent from its 2010 high.  
 “The short-term stabilization of the markets which has
occurred in the last two weeks has opened a window for IPOs,”
said  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund manager
at Federated Investors Inc., which oversees $350 billion.
“People seeking equity capital have to be conscious that this
window may close at any time. So it’s no surprise that they’re
eager to get deals done.”  
 BroadSoft  slid 70 cents to $8.30 as of 4:05 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and  Jefferies Group Inc.  of New York managed the IPO.  
 Oasis Petroleum  
 Oasis Petroleum Inc.  will lead four sales scheduled for
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Houston-based
drilling and exploration company with oilfields in North Dakota
and Montana is seeking $725 million including its overallotment
option, in what would be the largest U.S. IPO this year.  
 Morgan Stanley of New York and Zurich-based  UBS AG  are
managing the sale. Oasis Petroleum is backed by EnCap
Investments LP, a Houston-based private-equity firm.  
 Oasis Petroleum  focuses on developing and extracting
“unconventional” oil- and natural-gas deposits from the
ground, according to a filing with the SEC. It owns rights to
292,000 acres of land in North Dakota and Montana, 85 percent of
which has not been developed, the filing showed.  
 The company plans to spend $220 million on drilling and
supporting activities in 2010, more than double the $89 million
in 2009. Oasis Petroleum will try to access deposits through
horizontal-drilling techniques, it said in the filing.  
 ‘Systemic Risk’  
 The IPO comes eight weeks after a rig leased by London-
based BP Plc exploded in the Gulf of Mexico, triggering the
worst oil spill in U.S. history. President  Barack Obama  on May
27 extended a moratorium on deepwater offshore drilling permits,
while BP has tentatively agreed to put about $20 billion into a
fund to pay damages, people familiar with the talks said today.  
 “Investors will be obviously looking for onshore
options,” said  Josef Schuster , the Chicago-based founder of
IPOX Capital Management LLC and manager of the Direxion
Long/Short Global IPO Fund. “The potential systemic  risk  coming
from BP is not there with Oasis.”  
 Schuster said any boost won’t be enough to spur him to buy
shares of Oasis Petroleum, citing the performance of the IPOs of
oil-exploration companies such as  Athabasca Oil Sands Corp.  this
year. Calgary-based oil-sands developer Athabasca has tumbled  38
percent  since raising C$1.35 billion ($1.32 billion) in March.  
 Relative Value  
 At the midpoint price of $14 a share, Oasis is valued at
2.19 times net tangible book value, a measure of shareholder
equity that excludes assets that can’t be sold in liquidation.
That’s 53 percent higher than the median ratio of 1.43 for 61
oil refining and marketing companies worldwide, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  
 Higher One Holdings Inc.  in New Haven, Connecticut;
Bellevue, Washington-based Motricity Inc., and China Intelligent
Lighting & Electronics Inc. of Guangdong, China, are also
scheduled to sell stock today, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Goldman Sachs is leading Higher One’s offering, while
Goldman and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  in New York are handling
Motricity’s sale. New York-based Rodman & Renshaw LLC and
WestPark Capital Inc. of Los Angeles were hired to run China
Intelligent’s deal.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        