-- Buffett, Gates Press Billionaires to Pledge Half Their Wealth to Charity
-- Katya Kazakina
-- 2010-06-16T16:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/buffett-gates-press-billionaires-to-give-half-their-wealth-to-charities.html

          
          
             Warren Buffett  and  Bill Gates  are
pressing fellow billionaires to commit at least half their
wealth to charity in an effort to draw attention on the
responsibilities the wealthiest have for aiding the needy.  
 Buffett and Gates started a drive called “ The Giving
Pledge ” to encourage high-profile philanthropic promises,
according to the initiative’s website. A pledge of the majority
of an individual’s fortune is “an understandable and quite
reachable bar for the wealthiest -- many will exceed it,”
according to a document posted on the website.  
 Buffett, the world’s third-richest person and chairman of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , has pledged more than 99 percent of his
wealth to philanthropy. The greatest part of his fortune,
estimated in March at $47 billion by Forbes magazine, is being
given in annual installments to the foundation established by
 Microsoft Corp.  co-founder Gates and his wife  Melinda Gates .  
 “Bill and Melinda Gates and I are asking hundreds of rich
Americans to pledge at least 50 percent of their wealth to
charity,” Buffett wrote today in a pledge on Fortune’s website.
Buffett said 1 percent of his wealth is enough for him and his
family, and “neither our happiness nor our well-being would be
enhanced” by keeping more.  
 The initiative kicked off with a meeting in New York on May
5, 2009, that was organized by the Gateses, Fortune magazine
reported, citing interviews with the couple and Buffett. The
leaders of the effort may have a minimum goal of about $600
billion in commitments, Fortune said, based on the calculation
of half of the $1.2 trillion in net worth of the 400 richest
individuals compiled by Forbes magazine.  
 ‘The Giving Pledge’  
 “It would easily double or triple the amount of
philanthropy in America,” said  Melissa Berman , president of
Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors, a non-profit organization
that has advised the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation on “The
Giving Pledge” initiative.  
 “If we would be able to get this influx for philanthropy
from billionaires, it would inspire other Americans,” she said
in an interview today. “And then we could really change what
the world is like.”  
 The idea to assemble a group of billionaire philanthropists
to discuss strategies and encourage giving was Buffett’s,
Fortune said. The meeting was hosted by  David Rockefeller  and
included  George Soros ,  Oprah Winfrey  and  Michael Bloomberg .  
 Bill Gates ranks second on the Forbes list of billionaires.
Bloomberg, the mayor of New York, is the majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  
 The Gates Foundation, with an endowment of about $35
billion, combats disease and global poverty, and funds U.S.
education initiatives.  
 Those who take the pledge are invited to pick the causes
that they fund. The effort will initially focus on U.S.
billionaires and may expand to other countries.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        