-- Buffett Says `Wildly Capricious' Economy Inspires His Charity
-- Hugh Son
-- 2010-06-16T20:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/buffett-says-wildly-capricious-economy-inspires-his-charitable-activity.html

          
          
             Warren Buffett , the billionaire who
committed more than 99 percent of his wealth to charity, said
he’s giving it away because he benefited from a U.S. economy
that produces “wildly capricious” results.  
 Buffett’s 2006 pledge to give most of his assets from
building  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  would leave his lifestyle
“untouched,” he said today in a  letter  on Fortune’s website.
The statement was part of a push by Buffett and Microsoft Corp.
co-founder  Bill Gates  to inspire other U.S. billionaires to
pledge at least half of their fortunes to charity.  
 “My luck was accentuated by my living in a market system
that sometimes produces  distorted results , though overall it
serves our country well,” Buffett wrote. “I’ve worked in an
economy that rewards someone who saves the lives of others on a
battlefield with a medal, rewards a great teacher with thank-you
notes from parents, but rewards those who can detect the
mispricing of securities with sums reaching into the billions.
In short, fate’s distribution of long straws is wildly
capricious.”  
 Buffett, 79, and Gates, 54, started a drive called “ The
Giving Pledge ” to encourage high-profile promises, according to
the initiative’s website. The two men and Gates’s wife  Melinda Gates  have been assembling billionaires at private meetings to
drum up support for their challenge.  
 Buffett said he is asking “hundreds of rich Americans to
pledge at least 50 percent of their wealth to charity.” He said
1 percent of his wealth is enough for him and his family, and
“neither our happiness nor our well-being would be enhanced”
by keeping more.  
 Broad, Morgridge  
 The Giving Pledge has attracted the interest of  Eli Broad 
and Edythe Broad,  John Morgridge  and Tashia Morgridge,  John Doerr  and Ann Doerr, and H.F. “Gerry” Lenfest and Marguerite
Lenfest, who are expected to be part of a charter membership
class announced later this year, said  Patty Stonesifer , who has
advised on the initiative. The goal over time is that a majority
of billionaires would agree to a similar standard, said
Stonesifer, the former chief executive officer of the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation in an interview today.  
 Eli Broad is former chairman of insurer SunAmerica Inc.
John Morgridge was chairman of Cisco Systems Inc. John Doerr is
one of Amazon.com Inc.’s first investors. H.F. Lenfest’s cable
company was swallowed by Comcast Corp.  
 ‘The Giving Pledge’  
 The effort kicked off with a meeting in New York on May 5,
2009, that was organized by the Gateses, Fortune magazine
reported, citing interviews with the couple and Buffett. The
leaders of the initiative may have a minimum goal of about $600
billion in commitments, Fortune said, based on the calculation
of half of the $1.2 trillion in net worth of the 400 richest
individuals compiled by Forbes magazine.  
 “It would easily double or triple the amount of
philanthropy in America,” said  Melissa Berman , president of
Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors, a non-profit organization
that has advised the Gates Foundation on the pledge initiative.  
 “If we would be able to get this influx for philanthropy
from billionaires, it would inspire other Americans,” she said
in an interview today. “And then we could really change what
the world is like.”  
 Buffett’s fortune was estimated at $47 billion by Forbes in
March, placing him third in the worldwide ranking behind
telecommunications investor  Carlos Slim  and Gates, who is also a
Berkshire director. Buffett, chairman of Berkshire, executed
takeovers and stock picks to transform his firm over four
decades from a failing textile mill into a seller of bricks,
electric power and hurricane insurance with a  market value  of
about $190 billion.  
 ‘Ovarian Lottery’  
 Buffett’s letter echoed comments he has made emphasizing
the role of luck in amassing his fortune.  
 “My wealth has come from a combination of living in
America, some lucky genes, and compound interest,” he wrote.
“Both my children and I won what I call the ovarian lottery.
(For starters, the odds against my 1930 birth taking place in
the U.S. were at least 30 to 1. My being male and white also
removed huge obstacles that a majority of Americans then
faced.)”  
 Buffett collects a $100,000 annual salary at Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire and lives in the home he bought in 1958
for $31,500, according to a book by Buffett’s son Peter.  
 “I like having an expensive private plane, but owning a
half-dozen homes would be a burden,” Buffett wrote. “Too
often, a vast collection of possessions ends up possessing its
owner. The asset I most value, aside from health, is
interesting, diverse, and long-standing friends.”  
 Soros, Winfrey  
 Buffett has pledged to donate the bulk of his fortune to
the Gates Foundation, the world’s largest philanthropic
organization, with goals including the reduction of poverty and
disease and the improvement of U.S. education. Buffett also
supports the Glide Foundation, a San Francisco soup kitchen, by
offering to eat lunch with the highest bidder in an annual
auction. This year’s event drew a winning bid of $2.63 million.  
 The idea to assemble a group of billionaire philanthropists
to discuss strategies and encourage giving was Buffett’s,
Fortune said. The first meeting was hosted by  David Rockefeller 
and included  George Soros ,  Oprah Winfrey  and  Michael Bloomberg ,
the mayor of New York. Bloomberg is the majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  
 A pledge of the majority of an individual’s fortune is “an
understandable and quite reachable bar for the wealthiest --many
will exceed it,” according to a document posted on The Giving
Pledge website.  
 Those who take the pledge are invited to pick the causes
that they fund. The effort will initially focus on U.S.
billionaires and may expand to other countries.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Warren Buffett has committed most of his wealth to charity. Photographer: Chris Machian/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Feb. 22 (Bloomberg) -- Billionaire investor Warren Buffett and Courtenay Wolfe, chief executive officer of Salida Capital, talk with Bloomberg's Betty Liu about philanthropy.
     Salida, a Toronto-based hedge fund, paid $1.68 million to win Buffett's annual charity auction and earn the right to send its leaders to dine with Berkshire Hathaway Inc.'s chairman and CEO. The Glide Foundation is the beneficiary of the funds raised in the auction. They speak before the charity lunch in New York. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
