-- Bullard Joins Two Colleagues Backing Derivatives Curb
-- Steve Matthews
-- 2010-06-16T22:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/bullard-joins-two-fed-colleagues-backing-curbs-on-swaps-trading-by-banks.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  joined two colleagues in support of a
proposal by Senator  Blanche Lincoln  that would force commercial
banks to wall off their swaps-trading desks.  
 “St. Louis Fed President James Bullard is in support of
Senator Blanche Lincoln’s derivatives reform amendment,” said
 Robert Schenk , the regional bank’s senior vice president for
public affairs. He said Bullard is out of the country and
unavailable for further comment.  
 The endorsement puts three of the Fed’s 12 regional
presidents at odds with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  over the steps
needed to curb risk-taking at the largest banks. The three
officials, who also include  Thomas Hoenig  in Kansas City and
 Richard Fisher  of Dallas, helped persuade lawmakers earlier this
year to preserve the Fed’s supervisory role over smaller banks.  
 The presidents are “probably building on their success to
reemphasize that any macro-prudential regulation needs to take
into account what’s going on at small banks, not just big
banks,” said  Gregory Hess , a former Fed economist who’s now
dean of the faculty at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont,
California.  
 Lincoln’s plan “tends to even the playing ground between
big banks and little banks,” and the presidents’ backing gives
it “more tangible, populist appeal,” he said.  
 Federal Support  
 The original rule drafted by Lincoln, head of the Senate
Agriculture Committee, would require companies such as Bank of
America Corp.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to conduct derivatives trading outside of their commercial
banking units that benefit from federal support. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, loans,
currencies and commodities, or linked to specific events such as
changes in interest rates or weather.  
 Fed staff members describe the plan as “highly
disruptive,” and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman
 Sheila Bair  opposes it. Bernanke said last month that the
proposal would make the U.S. financial system “more susceptible
to systemic risk,” while U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has rejected calls to separate banks from risk-taking
activities, saying it won’t prevent future financial crises.  
 Lincoln’s staff has released clarifications to her proposal
that would phase in over two years the requirement that
commercial banks push out their swaps-trading desks to
subsidiaries. The proposal would allow the Fed to provide
system-wide emergency aid to swaps dealers in exigent
circumstances.  
 Primary Victory  
 Lincoln, a two-term Democratic senator from Arkansas, is
gaining support from Fed officials after winning a primary
challenge in her home state on June 8. She was elected to the
Senate in 1998 at the age of 38, making her the youngest woman
to be picked to the upper chamber.  
 Her proposal is part of the Senate financial-overhaul bill
approved last month. Negotiators are working to reconcile Senate
and House versions of the most sweeping overhaul of financial
regulations since the Great Depression.  
 Bullard, 49, joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the bank in 2008. During an
April 15 speech in New York, he said that “only a few of the
current financial-reform proposals are likely to prevent future
crises, most are not.”  
 Hoenig, the Fed’s longest-serving policy maker and leader
of the Kansas City Fed since 1991, is the only official to vote
against all three central-bank policy statements this year. He
is a supporter of the so-called “Volcker Rule” which would
restrict proprietary trading at banks, and of a resolution
process that allows large financial firms to be dismantled in an
orderly way should they become insolvent.  
 International Accord  
 Fisher, who has led the Dallas Fed since 2005, has since
March called for an international accord to break up large,
interconnected financial firms whose failure might threaten the
financial system. In February, he said he was “sympathetic” to
Hoenig’s view that the Fed should change its pledge to keep
borrowing costs low for an “extended period.”  
 “There is a division within the Fed over the role of banks
and the regulation of those banks,” said Mark Williams, a
former Fed bank examiner who now teaches at Boston University.
“On one side, you have those who feel we shouldn’t restrict
banks because it will restrict their ability to receive
diversified income sources. On the other hand, there’s a
movement that says, ‘We want bankers to get back to banking.’”  
 “These Fed presidents are drawing a line and saying that
FDIC-insured deposits should not be gambled with,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
