-- Canada Housing Resales Fall 9.5% in May as Prices Rise, Realtor Group Says
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-06-16T14:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/canada-housing-resales-fall-9-5-in-may-as-prices-rise-realtor-group-says.html

          
          
             Canadian existing home sales fell
9.5 percent in May on a seasonally adjusted basis as the
country’s housing market cools, a realtor group said.  
 The number of homes sold dropped to 37,576 units, from
41,502 units in April, the Canadian Real Estate Association said
in a  statement  from Ottawa today. The value of home sales
dropped 10 percent to C$12.8 billion ($12.5 billion), it said.  
 The realtor group cited changes in mortgage regulations
that toughened qualifications for government insurance and
rising mortgage rates that prompted many buyers to bring forward
purchases of homes.  
 “May was the first full month in which sales activity was
affected by these changes,” Georges Pahud, the association’s
president, said in the statement. “An accompanying decline in
new listings and housing starts means these changes are also
affecting the supply side, which will keep the market balanced
and Canadian home prices stable.”  
 Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened rules in the
country’s mortgage market Feb. 16 to ensure buyers can afford
their homes if interest rates rise. Under the changes for
mortgages eligible for government insurance, which took effect
April 19, buyers will have to meet standards for five-year,
fixed-rate mortgages even if they opt for variable rates. Limits
on refinancing will be stricter and people buying a home that
they don’t occupy must make a down payment of 20 percent.  
 The Bank of Canada earlier this month became the first
Group of Seven central bank to raise interest rates, doubling
its benchmark rate to 0.5 percent.  
 New listings fell 4 percent to 76,201 units in May, the
realtor group said. The average price for a home in Canada was
C$346,881 in May, an increase of 8.5 percent from a year
earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        