-- Carney Says There's No `Preordained' Path for Canadian Interest Rates
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-06-16T18:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/carney-says-there-s-no-preordained-path-for-canadian-interest-rates.html

          
          
             Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said future moves to increase interest rates aren’t
“preordained” because of an uneven global recovery, and said
he wants Group of 20 leaders coming to Canada next weekend to
make progress on “radical” new rules to foster the rebound.  
 “The Bank must balance the competing influences on
Canadian activity and inflation of momentum in domestic demand
and the increasingly uneven global recovery,” Carney, 45, said
in a speech in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island. “In light
of the scale and volatility of these conflicting forces, it
should be evident that no particular path for monetary policy is
preordained.”  
 The Bank of Canada on June 1 became the first central bank
in the Group of Seven to raise  interest rates  since July 2008,
and signaled that further increases could be delayed. Carney may
raise his overnight target rate again at the next decision on
July 20, to 0.75 percent from 0.5 percent, because of strong
domestic demand, according to  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist
with CIBC World Markets in Toronto.  
 The speech’s “underlying message is still more consistent
with further quarter point hikes at each of the next few
meetings than any other course of action,” Shenfeld said in an
e-mailed note to clients. “We expect such hikes to roll out
from here to October, but look for a pause in rate hikes
beginning in December as Canadian growth begins to fall short of
the Bank’s  forecast .”  
 Strong Growth  
 Canada’s  economy  expanded at a 6.1 percent annual pace last
quarter, and the central bank predicts  inflation  will exceed its
2 percent target over the next year.  
 The Canadian currency appreciated 0.1 percent to C$1.0237
per U.S. dollar at 2:15 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0254
yesterday, the strongest closing level since May 13. It earlier
fell as much as 0.7 percent. One Canadian dollar buys 97.69 U.S.
cents.  
 While Canada will have the fastest  growth  among Group of
Seven countries over the next two years, the biggest risks are
from abroad such as the prospect of a slowdown in Europe linked
to deficit concerns, Carney said. Emerging markets are
benefiting from “strong momentum,” while Japan, the U.S. and
other industrialized economies are consolidating their
recoveries, he said.  
 Canada will host a meeting of G-20 leaders in Toronto next
weekend to work on financial reforms designed to prevent another
global credit crisis, while promoting economic growth and paring
back government deficits.  
 “Comprehensive, Radical”  
 “The G-20’s agenda is comprehensive and radical, but we
need to implement, as well as propose,”  Carney said .  
 Without measures by emerging markets to boost domestic
demand and make exchange rates more flexible as developed
countries pare deficits, there could be C$7 trillion of lost
global output by 2015 in an “age of austerity,” he said.  
 The G-20 must also set rules that make individual financial
institutions more “resilient” by holding more capital and
having better risk management practices, Carney said. The
financial system must also be strengthened to withstand the
failure of individual companies, he said.  
 New rules being proposed by the  Bank for International
Settlements  are “on track,” Carney said.  
 ‘More Protracted Recovery’  
 As with the June 1 rate announcement, Carney’s speech today
focused attention on Europe’s debt crisis as adding to the
prospect of an uneven global recovery.  
 “Recent tensions in Europe are likely to result in higher
borrowing costs and more rapid tightening of fiscal policy in
advanced economies,” Carney said. “Without countervailing
policies, this could lead to a more protracted recovery.”  
 Soaring bond yields in nations including Greece, Ireland
and Portugal forced the European Union to craft a 750 billion-
euro rescue package on May 10. Greece’s credit rating was cut to
Ba1 from A3 on June 14 by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited
“substantial” risks to economic growth from austerity
measures.  
 Carney dismissed the idea of allowing a temporary rise in
inflation to help countries cope with fiscal problems, saying it
wouldn’t help countries that most need to lower their deficits
because their debt portfolios have the shortest durations.  
 Boost Productivity  
 On the domestic side, Carney reiterated that consumer debt
levels are “elevated.” He also said companies must step up
efforts to boost the output each worker produces after it failed
to improve during a recession for the first time in 30 years.
“We should recognize that Canada is not as productive as it
could be,” Carney said. “Canadian firms do not effectively use
the capital that they purchase.”  
 Canadian  labor productivity  rose less than economists
predicted in the first quarter, as increased output also came
with the biggest gain in hours worked in almost six years.
Productivity rose 0.7 percent between January and March as gross
domestic product of businesses increased 1.8 percent and hours
worked climbed by 1.1 percent, Statistics Canada said yesterday.  
 (To listen to a pre-recorded webcast of the speech and
press conference, click  here .)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, at 
   gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        