-- Celesio, Phoenix to Merge Dutch Activities in Drugs Distribution Venture
-- Phil Serafino
-- 2010-06-16T16:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/celesio-phoenix-to-merge-dutch-activities-in-drugs-distribution-venture.html

          
          
             Celesio AG  and Phoenix Group will
form a drug-distribution venture in the Netherlands to create
the second-largest Dutch pharmacy company.  
 Celesio said it will contribute 62 drugstores with annual
sales totaling 170 million euros ($209 million) to Brocacef
Holding NV, a Phoenix subsidiary. Celesio will own 45 percent of
Brocacef, a drug wholesaler and pharmacy operator, the
Stuttgart, Germany-based company said in a statement today.  
 Shares of Celesio jumped the most in three months after the
announcement. The deal will form a pharmacy company with 115
stores and more than 1.1 billion euros in revenue. The venture
resulted from Celesio’s review of countries in which it has a
small market share, Chief Executive  Fritz Oesterle  said in the
statement.  
 “We consider the merger with Phoenix to be the best option
to further boost the positive development of our activities in
the Dutch pharmaceutical market,” Oesterle said. The companies
can reduce purchasing and administration costs by working
together, he said.  
 The agreement with Mannheim, Germany-based Phoenix, a drug
wholesaler started by deceased billionaire  Adolf Merckle , will
employ 1,600 people, according to the statement.  
 The venture excludes Celesio units Apotheek DocMorris NV,
Movianto Nederland BV and Celesio Finance BV and needs antitrust
approval, the statement said.  
 Shares Surge  
 Celesio  rose 78 cents, or 4.3 percent, to close at 18.89
euros in Frankfurt trading, giving the company a market value of
3.2 billion euros. The gain was the largest since March 4.  
 The venture is a “smart step,”  Thomas Maul , an analyst at
DZ Bank AG, wrote in a report. “The deal will significantly
improve Celesio’s market position in the Netherlands without
additional capital investments.” He  recommends  buying Celesio
shares.  
 Separately,  Phoenix  is close to obtaining as much as 3.6
billion euros in financing, two people familiar with the
negotiations said yesterday. The company may agree with banks
early next month on 2.6 billion euros in syndicated loans to
refinance existing debt, said the people. The company also has
plans to sell as much as 1 billion euros in hybrid bonds,
according to the people.  
 Mediq NV  is the biggest pharmacy company in the
Netherlands.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Serafino  in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        