-- Chile's Region-Beating Stock Rally Is Justified, Moneda's Echeverria Says
-- Eduardo Thomson
-- 2010-06-16T19:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/chile-s-region-beating-stock-rally-is-justified-moneda-s-echeverria-says.html

          
          
             Pablo Echeverria , who oversees $3
billion as chairman of Moneda Asset Management SA, said the
rally in Chilean stocks to record levels is “justified” given
the outlook for earnings.  
 Echeverria said he remains “fully invested,” with a
preference for Latin American equities over fixed-income assets.  
 Chile’s Ipsa index gained 13 percent this year through
yesterday compared with a 6 decline each for the MSCI EM Latin
America index and Brazil’s Bovespa. That has pushed the Ipsa’s
price relative to reported earnings to 20.4, the highest
relative to the Bovespa since November 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Echeverria spoke in an interview from Santiago yesterday.
Moneda’s Colono was the best performer among 471 Chile-domiciled
funds in the year through last week, with a 22 percent return,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 On Chilean equities:  
 “Chile has always traded with a premium to other Latin
American markets. In the past, those premiums sometimes reached
50 percent and now they’re in the order of 20 percent. That is
justified as companies have had significant growth in profits.
This year earnings should grow 20 percent to 25 percent and next
year will also be a very good year for Chilean companies.”  
 “Commodity prices will also help. The prices of raw
materials in the long term will be higher and we’ll see Chile’s
export sector with good results. The domestic economy, thanks to
the reconstruction after the February earthquake, microeconomic
reforms and a higher per capita income, should grow
significantly.”  
 On Brazilian equities:  
 “Brazilian equities had a very significant rebound in 2009
and now we’re seeing adjustments in prices. The same is
happening in the rest of Latin America and the equities market
is becoming more attractive.”  
 “Brazil is very far from the peaks of the past and today
is a very interesting market. Last year I thought that that
market was too expensive and, with the adjustment in prices, it
becomes a very interesting opportunity.”  
 On Moneda’s investment strategy:  
 “We remain fully invested, with a preference on equities
over fixed income. We did the same in 2009 during the crisis. We
didn’t panic and that helped us to post very impressive returns
in all of our funds.”  
 “Last year we also launched a fund that invests in Latin
American corporate debt issued in local currency. The emerging
currencies will continue appreciating against the dollar and
euro. We launched the fund with $30 million and we’ll raise more
capital for that fund this year.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduardo Thomson  in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        