-- Chile Central Bank Trims 2010 Growth Estimate, Says Rate Increses to Come
-- Randy Woods
-- 2010-06-16T17:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/chile-central-bank-trims-2010-growth-estimate-says-rate-increses-to-come.html

          
          
             Chile’s central bank warned of more
interest rate increases as it trimmed its growth forecast for
2010 and increased its inflation outlook.  
 The economy may grow 4 percent to 5 percent this year as
consumer prices rise 3.8 percent, the bank said today in its
quarterly monetary policy report. In April, the bank forecast
the economy would expand 4.25 percent to 5.25 percent with
annual inflation of 3.7 percent.  
 Chile’s economy is recovering from a deadly February
earthquake that crippled manufacturing in the first quarter,
leading to the lower growth estimate. The central bank’s policy
committee, led by  Jose De Gregorio , yesterday lifted its
benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point to 1 percent.  
 The larger-than-forecast rate increase marked the beginning
of “the process of normalization of the current significant
monetary stimulus”, the bank said today. “Delaying this
process will only end up necessitating faster and larger
adjustments, with consequent repercussions on activity and the
price of financial assets.”  
 The central bank says its base scenario for interest rates
in one year’s time matches private forecasts. The median
forecast of 37 economists in a June 9 survey by the bank was
that the rate would reach 3.75 percent in May 2011.  
 Peso Rises on Upgrade  
 The Chilean peso rallied 1 percent to 529.98 per dollar at
12:55 p.m. New York time from 535.05 yesterday. The currency
extended gains after Moody’s Investors Service upgraded Chile’s
government bond ratings to Aa3 from A1, citing the country’s
economic and financial resilience.  
 De Gregorio increased  borrowing costs  yesterday for the
first time since 2008, after slashing them to a record low of
0.5 percent in July 2009 as Chile’s economy shrank for the first
time in a decade. Gross domestic product contracted 1.5 percent
last year, the deepest dip since 1983.  
 “In the base scenario of this monetary policy report, it
is expected that the normalization of the monetary-policy rate
will continue gradually, but its level will remain expansive for
several quarters more,” De Gregorio told Senators today,
according to a transcript of his remarks handed to reporters
before the speech.  
 Chile’s economy recovered faster than forecast from the
8.8-magnitude earthquake, which smashed ports, roads and
factories across an area of the country responsible for 17
percent of gross domestic product.  
 Domestic Demand Jumps  
 Industrial output  plummeted 17.4 percent in March then
shrank 1.3 percent in April, less than the 6.6 percent
contraction economists had forecast, as companies reopened
factories to meet a rise in domestic demand. Domestic demand may
rise 15 percent this year, the bank said today, faster than the
12 percent it expected in April.  
 Economic activity as measured by the central bank’s IMACEC
index rose 4.6 percent in April from a year ago and 8.2 percent
from March. Reports in late May from the  National Statistics
Institute  and National Chamber of Commerce showed a 22 percent
year-on-year surge in April retail sales.  
 “Inasmuch as the withdrawal of monetary stimuli is done
gradually, before inflation deviations present themselves,
stable and sustained growth for the Chilean economy can be
assured,” De Gregorio said, according to the transcript. “Were
this adjustment to be unnecessarily delayed, one would just be
risking higher costs in terms of activity and employment in the
future.”  
 To contact the reporters responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net 
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        