-- Chile Swap Rates Jump on De Gregorio's Surprise Borrowing Cost Increase
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-06-16T20:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/chile-swap-rates-to-jump-on-de-gregorio-s-surprise-increase-barclays-says.html

          
          
             Chilean interest-rate swap rates
reached a 15-month high after the central bank’s larger-than-
forecast increase to borrowing costs.  
 The bank board, led by bank President  Jose De Gregorio ,
raised the overnight rate by a half-point yesterday to 1 percent
from a record low 0.5 percent, matching the forecasts of just 4
of 24 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Eighteen analysts
predicted a quarter-point increase while two forecast no change.  
 The bank will continue to remove monetary stimulus “at a
pace that depends on the evolution of domestic and external
macroeconomic conditions,” policy makers said in a statement
accompanying their decision. Traders in the interest-rate  swaps
market  had priced in a rate increase of 25 basis points to 50
basis points, or a quarter percentage point to a half percentage
point, before the bank’s announcement.  
 “They have initiated their hiking cycle with a surprise
that may lead the market to anticipate additional 50 basis-point
hikes, so there could be a very strong sell-off even after the
initial gap to correct the mispricing,” said  Roberto Melzi , a
Latin American strategist at Barclays Capital in New York.  
 The one-year swap rate in pesos rose 20 basis points to 2.8
percent today, the highest since February 2009. The two-year
rate jumped 17 basis points to 3.7 percent. The three-month rate
rose 23 points to 1.43 percent and the six-month rate by 24
basis points to 2.01 percent.  
 Barclays previously set a target of 4.05 percent for the
two-year swap contract, which assumed quarter-point rate rises,
accelerating to half-point increases in the second half of this
year and the start of next year.  
 Peso Gains  
 The Chilean peso rallied 1 percent to 529.75 per dollar
from 535.05 yesterday, extending gains after Moody’s Investors
Service upgraded Chile’s government bond ratings by one level to
Aa3 from A1, citing economic and financial resilience.  
 South America’s fifth-largest economy is rebounding after
an earthquake and tsunami in February, the bank board said
yesterday. The central bank policy makers played down concern of
fall-out from the European debt crisis and instead pointed to
soaring domestic demand and falling unemployment.  
 De Gregorio today warned of future interest-rate increases,
saying that delaying a rise in borrowing costs now would risk
the need for faster and larger rises later, potentially slowing
growth and costing jobs.  
 The 10-year interest-rate swap rate in pesos rose five
basis points to 5.9 percent today. The 10-year inflation-linked
interest-rate swap rate, rose 1 basis point t0 2.3 percent,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  
 Credibility  
 “Short-term rates have moved more or less 25 basis points,
but in the long end the five- and 10-year rates are pretty flat,
which makes sense and reflects the credibility of the central
bank,” said  German Fritsch , head of trading at Deutsche Bank AG
in Santiago. “What De Gregorio is trying to project is that
they’re ahead of the curve and raising now to avoid larger rate
rises later.”  
 Chile’s economy recovered faster than forecast from the
8.8-magnitude earthquake and tsunami that struck Feb. 27, which
killed 500 while smashing ports, roads and factories across an
area of the country responsible for 17 percent of gross domestic
product. Damage from the disaster may total $30 billion,
equivalent to about one sixth of last year’s GDP.  
 Industrial output  plummeted 17.4 percent in March then
shrank 1.3 percent in April, less than the 6.6 percent
contraction economists had forecast, as companies reopened
factories to meet a rise in domestic demand.  
 Retail Surge  
 Economic activity as measured by the central bank’s IMACEC
index rose 4.6 percent in April from a year ago and 8.2 percent
from March. Reports in late May from the  National Statistics
Institute  and National Chamber of Commerce showed a 22 percent
year-on-year surge in April retail sales.  
 Chile’s benchmark equity index, the Ipsa, rose to a record
4,060.33. The gauge is up 14 percent this year compared with the
MSCI EM Latin America index’s 5.1 percent decline.  
 Investors have been entering Chile’s stock market both as a
relative haven during global volatility and because of the
economy’s prospects, said  Francisco Busquet , who manages $700
million as head of Latin American equities at Larrain Vial SA.  
 “The fact that they increased the rate 25 basis points
more than consensus becomes marginal while you have double-digit
retail growth,” Busquet said in a telephone interview. “It
could affect retail and banking stocks, but very marginally and
short term. The medium-term outlook is still solid and 1 percent
is still expansive.”  
 World Cup  
 Sales of hardware and home-improvement articles rose 25
percent and sales of household electrical goods such as plasma-
screen and LCD televisions rose 42 percent in real terms in
April on demand ahead of the World Cup, the statistics institute
said. Chile’s national soccer team qualified for the World Cup
finals this year for the first time since 1998.  
 Prices rose 0.4 percent in May, pushing the annual pace of
inflation to 1.5 percent, the highest since June. A bank survey
published June 10 showed economists see year-end inflation at
3.5 percent by year-end, above the bank’s target of 3 percent.  
 Recovery from the global financial crisis in many countries
worldwide has seen policy makers begin to withdraw monetary
stimulus as rebounding demand threatens to ignite inflation. In
Latin America, the central banks of Brazil and Peru raised
interest rates at each of their past two meetings.  
 “Barring significant deterioration in global growth
prospects, which we don’t envision, the bank is likely to
proceed similar to yesterday’s pace for a few more months,”
said  Jimena Zuniga , an economist at Barclays Capital in New
York.  
 To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        