-- Chile Raised to Aa3 by Moody's as Earthquake Shows Country's `Resilience'
-- Eduardo Thomson
-- 2010-06-16T22:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/chile-bond-ratings-raised-to-aa3-from-a1-by-moody-s-on-economic-resilience.html

          
          
             Chile became the only Latin American
country rated AA after an upgrade by Moody’s Investors Service,
which cited the country’s fiscal savings and “financial
resilience” in the wake of a February earthquake.  
 Moody’s boosted the rating one level to Aa3, the fourth-
highest investment grade, from A1. The outlook on the rating is
stable, Moody’s said in a statement.  
 Chile’s economy is recovering faster than analysts forecast
from a 8.8-magnitude earthquake that smashed ports, roads and
factories across an area of the country responsible for 17
percent of gross domestic product. The country’s $11 billion in
an offshore copper savings would be more than enough to cover
its $8.4 billion in financing needs following the quake, Moody’s
said. Chile plans to tap overseas debt markets for the first
time in six years to help finance the reconstruction.  
 “Years of solid macroeconomic policies, including a
structural fiscal surplus rule meant to smooth government
revenues and expenditures, positioned Chile well to deal with
the global economic crisis and the financial aftermath of the
earthquake,” Moody’s analyst  Gabriel Torres  said in a
statement.  
 The South American country may sell as much as $3 billion
of bonds and warrants, according to a filing yesterday with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said April 23 in New York that Chile plans to sell $1.5
billion worth of 10-year dollar and pesos bonds abroad this
year. Chile’s has about $12 billion of debt, according to
Moody’s.  
 ‘No Debt’  
 “Chile has practically no debt and no fiscal deficit,”
said  Siobhan Morden , a Latin America debt strategist at RBS
Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut. “In a time like this
Chile says, ‘Hey, maybe I’ll issue a bond.’ They can come to the
market with the conditions and terms that they want.”  
 Chile’s economy grew at the fastest monthly pace in more
than a decade in April as business rebounded following the
effects of the earthquake. The economy expanded 8.2 percent in
April from March, the biggest increase since 1996, and 4.6
percent from a year earlier, the central bank said last week. It
was the quickest annual growth since September 2008 and double
the median forecast of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The central bank, which will publish updated economic
forecasts today, raised its benchmark  interest rate  by half a
percentage point yesterday to 1 percent.  
 “Despite the events of February, Chile is well positioned
to face any negative impacts,” said  Cesar Perez , an economist
at Celfin Capital SA in Santiago. “February and March were very
bad months and by April the country had reactivated.”  
 Net Creditor  
 Chile, the world’s largest copper producer, became a net
creditor in 2007 for the first time by paying down debt and
hoarding savings in an offshore wealth fund.  
 The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to buy Chile’s
5.5 percent bonds due in 2013 instead of U.S. Treasuries fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 125 basis points
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 The peso jumped 1 percent to 529.75 per U.S. dollar from
535.05 yesterday. Chile’s main  stock index  rose 0.6 percent to a
record 4,060.33.  
 To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        