-- Chinese House Prices Rose Twice as Fast as Anywhere Else in First Quarter
-- Simon Packard
-- 2010-06-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/china-is-world-s-hottest-housing-market-as-prices-surge-knight-frank-says.html

          
          
             China overtook Hong Kong as the
world’s hottest housing market in the first quarter, with prices
rising at more than double the rate of anywhere else, property
adviser  Knight Frank LLP said .  
 Values soared 68 percent in China’s main cities from a year
earlier, according to a global index compiled by the London-
based broker. Gains for Hong Kong, India, Singapore, Australia,
Malaysia and Indonesia helped lift average prices in the Asia-
Pacific region by almost 18 percent.  
 China’s real estate market is being fueled by limited
investment opportunities available to locals and the migration
of rural Chinese to bigger cities, according to economists at
Barclays Capital. The gains suggest that government efforts to
curb property speculation through such measures as loan
restrictions and larger down payment requirements haven’t yet
deflated the market.  
 “The top four positions in our rankings are all occupied
by Asia-Pacific locations, whilst Europe dominates the bottom
half of the table,” said  Liam Bailey , Knight Frank’s head of
residential research. Twenty-five of the 47 countries in the
index registered house-price growth. Declines slowed in the most
depressed markets of the Baltic and Ukraine, he said.  
 China’s  economy  grew at the fastest pace in almost three
years in the first quarter, boosted by Premier  Wen Jiabao’s  $586
billion stimulus package.  
 China’s prosperity has benefited the region. Property
values rose almost 31 percent from a year earlier in Hong Kong,
and increased 24 percent and 20 percent, respectively, in
Singapore and Australia, Knight Frank said.  
 China’s ‘Bubble’  
 The “bubble” in China’s property market is going to burst
very quickly, with prices set to fall as much as 20 percent in
the next 12 to 18 months,  Sun Mingchun , a Hong Kong-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in an interview
yesterday.  
 China’s banking regulator said this week that it sees
growing credit risks in the nation’s real-estate industry and
warned of increasing pressure from non-performing loans.  
 Investment in real estate rose 38 percent to 1.39 trillion
yuan ($204 billion) in the first five months of this year,
according to China’s statistics bureau.  
 Most of the countries where home prices fell in Knight
Frank’s global index were in Europe. Estonia was the worst
performer, with a drop of 40 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, followed by Ukraine with a decline of almost 35
percent.  
 Values rose 8.8 percent in the U.K. and 2.3 percent in the
U.S. In Dubai, which went from the world’s best performer to the
worst during the global property slump, prices dropped 8.2
percent in the first quarter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        