-- Cipla Chairman Hamied Targets $19 Billion-a-Year Roche, Amgen Treatments
-- Adi Narayan
-- 2010-06-16T03:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/cipla-chairman-hamied-targets-19-billion-a-year-roche-amgen-medicines.html

          
          
             Cipla Ltd. , the Indian drugmaker that
built a $1 billion business making generic HIV treatments, aims
to sell copies of  Roche Holding AG ’s and  Amgen Inc. ’s best-
selling biotechnology medicines with a partner in China.  
 Cipla Chairman  Yusuf Hamied  plans to invest in companies in
India and Hong Kong that make so-called monoclonal antibodies.
The technology will enable Mumbai-based Cipla to gain access to
products modeled on Roche’s Avastin and Herceptin cancer drugs
and Amgen’s rheumatoid arthritis treatment Enbrel, Hamied said.  
 The three medications generated $19 billion in sales last
year. Cipla, India’s third-largest drugmaker by revenue, intends
to sell its versions cheaper, making them more affordable. The
same strategy of copying medicines developed by others helped
the 75-year-old company become one of the largest suppliers of
AIDS pills for developing nations.  
 “Avastin, Enbrel, Herceptin -- these are all being
marketed today, but the prices are very high,” said Hamied,
whose father founded the company in 1935, in a telephone
interview yesterday. “We will have biosimilars for them.”  
 Cipla advanced 1.5 percent to 343 rupees at 9:10 a.m.
Mumbai time, while the benchmark Sensitive index added 0.5
percent.  
 Hamster Ovaries  
 Biotechnology drugs are made from proteins synthesized in
living cells such as yeast and Chinese hamster ovaries. They are
more complex, difficult to make and pricier than traditional
pharmaceuticals, which consist of comparatively simple chemical
compounds. Other Indian companies are expanding into this area.  
 Biocon Ltd., India’s biggest biotechnology company, signed
an agreement a year ago with Mylan Inc. to develop, make and
market generic biologic drugs.  Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. ,
India’s second-biggest drugmaker, said in 2007 it began selling
a version of the cancer medicine rituximab at about half the
price of Roche’s original, called Rituxan.  
 Under an agreement with Shanghai-based partner  Desano
Pharma , Cipla will have rights to market the biosimilars in
India and overseas, Hamied said. Cipla will invest $65 million
over three years buying 40 percent of a company based in the
west Indian city of Goa and a 25 percent stake in a Hong Kong-
based biotechnology company, Cipla said in a statement yesterday.  
 Cipla is targeting 8 to 10 treatments for rheumatoid
arthritis, colorectal cancer, allergic asthma, and head and neck
cancer that aren’t covered by patents in India and China,
according to a  statement  on the company’s website. The brand-
name drugs generate about $30 billion a year in sales, Cipla
said.  
 Patent Protection  
 Biotechnology drugs account for about 10 percent to 15
percent of the global pharmaceutical market and many of them are
off-patent or will lose patent protection soon, Cipla said.  
 “This investment will, therefore, enable Cipla to expand
its business in this high technology and high growth segment,”
the company said.  
 Hamied said he may consider other sales and marketing
ventures. “I am not hunting for partners, but if something
comes up, we have an open mind with regard to partnerships,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adi Narayan  in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Cipla targets Roche and Amgen  
                       
                         
                           Santosh Verma/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Cipla Chairman Yusuf Hamied. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Cipla Chairman Yusuf Hamied. Photographer: Santosh Verma/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
