-- Citigroup to Suspend Home Foreclosures in Oil-Spill Area
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-06-16T21:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/citigroup-suspends-foreclosures-in-gulf-coast-area-as-spill-threatens-jobs.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc. , the recipient of a
$45 billion taxpayer bailout, will suspend foreclosures in
coastal areas hit by the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 The three-month halt starts tomorrow and will apply to
loans owned by the bank’s  mortgage  unit, not debt that Citigroup
services for other lenders or investors, the company said today
in an e-mailed statement. Homeowners within about 25 miles of
the coast will be covered and evictions will be halted if
properties have already been  seized .  
 “We aim to ease the burden on residents of the Gulf states
so they can concentrate on the most urgent matters facing
them,” Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 53,
said in the statement. “We will continue to explore ways to
help people avoid foreclosure so they and their families can
remain in their homes and have one less thing to worry about.”  
 Fannie Mae , the government-supported mortgage company,
today reminded the companies that manage its loans that they can
immediately suspend or reduce payments for borrowers for at
least three months.  
 Citigroup’s move will protect about 1,200 homeowners,
according to  Sanjiv Das , head of the New York-based bank’s
CitiMortgage unit. The bank has had “very encouraging”
discussions with companies for which it services home loans and
may expand the moratorium to their borrowers, he said.  
 Fannie, Freddie  
 “We don’t know what the repercussions of the oil spill are
going to be,” Das said in a telephone interview today. “But we
thought it was important for our borrowers at this time of
distress to get their financial bearing.”  
 Freddie Mac , which along with Fannie Mae owns or guarantees
more than half of U.S. home loans, hasn’t announced special
directions to its servicers for borrowers in the area, as it did
after 2005’s Hurricane Katrina. The McLean, Virginia-based
company’s guidelines allows them to provide relief where
appropriate, according to spokesman  Brad German .  
 Washington-based Fannie Mae’s “policy is in place to
support those who are experiencing a disaster-related hardship
through no fault of their own and are acting in good faith to
meet their mortgage obligation,” CEO  Michael J. Williams  said
in an e-mailed statement.  
 “At this point,”  Bank of America Corp. , the biggest U.S.
bank and largest mortgage servicer, “is not experiencing a
groundswell of customer inquiries regarding hardships resulting
from the Gulf oil spill,”  Rick Simon , a spokesman, said in an
e-mail. It does anticipate it “will create significant hardship
for many homeowners in the coming weeks and months.”  
 ‘Suitable Assistance’  
 The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank is “working to
develop suitable assistance plans and programs to meet”
individuals’ needs “within servicing guidelines,” such as the
typically used “initial 90-day forbearance of payments, with
case-by-case consideration of extensions in situations, such as
the hurricanes, that create longer term hardships,” Simon said.  
 While  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  doesn’t have a formal program
for homeowners in the area, the New York-based bank will work
with borrowers on a case-by-case basis, spokeswoman  Christine Holevas  said.  
 “We are urging customers in the Gulf region to give us a
call, and we will work out a solution for them that will give
them relief,” Holevas said. “We are very cognizant that people
are struggling and want to help.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        