-- Climate Bill Lacks Momentum Even After BP Spill, Democrats Say
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-06-16T17:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/climate-change-measure-lacks-momentum-even-after-bp-spill-democrats-say.html

          
          
             The  BP Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico is unlikely to create enough momentum to pass a
comprehensive climate bill sought by President  Barack Obama , say
leading Senate Democrats.  
 Many Democrats don’t want to vote in this election year on
whether to cap the greenhouse-gas emissions linked to climate
change, saying they prefer to work in the coming months on
legislation directly responding to the spill.  
 “The climate bill isn’t going to stop the oil leak,” said
Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat. “The first
thing you have to do is stop the oil leak.”  
 Obama, in a speech to the nation last night, praised a
climate plan passed by the House last year and said the U.S.
“can’t afford not to change how we produce and use energy.”
Still, he didn’t place direct pressure on the Senate to follow
the House’s lead and didn’t repeat his call earlier this month
to put “a price on carbon pollution.”  
 “I’m happy to look at other ideas and approaches from
either party, as long as they seriously tackle our addiction to
fossil fuels,” Obama said.  
 Cap-And-Trade  
 The House voted last June to create the first national
limits on greenhouse-gas emissions. The measure would regulate
carbon dioxide from power plants, refineries and factories
through a cap-and-trade program in which companies buy and sell
a declining number of pollution rights.  
 Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat, said Obama
didn’t not specifically back a climate bill in his speech.  
 “I didn’t find it overly political,” she told reporters
today. “He did not endorse cap-and-trade.”  
 Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat who introduced
legislation similar to the House bill in his chamber last month,
said yesterday that it doesn’t have the votes yet needed to
overcome a Republican filibuster.  
 “We don’t have the 60 votes yet, I know that,” Kerry told
reporters. “But we’re close enough to be able to fight for
it.”  
 House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, said
today that lawmakers who voted for last year’s cap-and-trade
bill may not accept Senate legislation that doesn’t impose
limits on the greenhouse gases linked to climate change.  
 Among House Democrats, “the fuse is a short one in terms of
protecting our environment,” Pelosi told reporters. She also
said keeping heat-trapping gases out of the atmosphere is a
“moral responsibility.”  
 Political Concerns  
 Some Democratic lawmakers have raised concerns that voting
on the climate plan could create a political backlash in the
November elections.  
 “There’s not a great call for it in the Democratic
caucus,” said West Virginia Democratic Senator  Jay Rockefeller ,
who has argued against taking up the bill. Feinstein said last
week she believed climate legislation could be passed next year.  
 As an alternative, Democrats are working on an energy plan
that would increase safety regulations on offshore drilling,
raise or eliminate the cap on oil companies’ economic liability,
promote energy efficiency and mandate more use of renewable
electricity.  
 “The front wheel of anything we do on energy is going to
be addressing regulations and safety with respect to offshore
drilling, particularly deep-well drilling,” said Senator  Byron Dorgan , a Democrat from North Dakota.  
 Energy Provisions  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, has
asked committee leaders to draft energy provisions to bring to
the floor next month. Democrats plan to meet tomorrow to discuss
what should be included.  
 Reid would be unlikely to include a climate provision in
the bill unless it had significant Republican support, Reid
spokesman  Jim Manley  said in an e-mail.  
 Republican backing would be needed to offset likely
opposition from Democrats representing some rural and industrial
states, who fear capping greenhouse gases would raise electric
bills for consumers and business.  
 To counter those concerns, Kerry and Lieberman yesterday
released a study by the Environmental Protection Agency that
said the plan would cost the average U.S. household less than
dollar a day.  
 Still, Senate Republicans and some Democrats from rural
states say they see little connection between the oil spill and
legislation to cap greenhouse-gas emissions.  
 ‘Unrelated’  
 “It’s unrelated,” said Senator  Ben Nelson , a Democrat
from Nebraska. “Obviously the emissions that we are talking
about are primarily coal-fired electricity generation from
Nebraska. That doesn’t have much to do with the Gulf.”  
 No Republicans have supported Kerry-Lieberman legislation
thus far. South Carolina Republican Senator  Lindsey Graham , who
worked on a climate bill with the pair for months, dropped his
support in late April.  
 Republicans said yesterday that Obama shouldn’t use the
Gulf spill to rally support for cap-and-trade legislation.  
 The cost of carbon dioxide allowances is effectively a
“new national energy tax” that will do nothing to “stop this
spill and clean it up,” said Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky. The “justifiable public outrage” over
the oil spill shouldn’t be employed “as a tool for pushing a
divisive new climate change policy,” he said.  
 Energy-Only Bill  
 Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat and chairman
of the Senate Energy and Commerce committee, said yesterday he
plans to advocate for an energy-only bill that passed his panel
last June. The measure would require utilities to get as much as
15 percent of their power from renewable sources by 2021.  
 The Senate “should definitely do an energy bill” that
doesn’t include a carbon cap-and-trade program, said Senator
 Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat. Kerry and Lieberman could
be given a chance to add their climate plan as an amendment, he
said.  
 The White House and other supporters of a climate bill want
a comprehensive plan to be the main legislative vehicle, arguing
that public concern over the oil spill provides momentum. “Now
is the moment for this generation to embark on a national
mission to unleash American innovation and seize control of our
own destiny,” Obama said in his speech last night.  
 ‘Political Moment’  
 Environmental groups have called on the Senate to pass a
climate bill this year.  Fred Krupp , president of Environmental
Defense Fund, said on a conference call today that though it
would be a “hard political lift in the Senate” to pass such a
measure, “we do have a political moment right now.”  
 Pollster  Joel Benenson  said  surveys  he conducted for the
 League of Conservation Voters  showed that 63 percent of likely
voters contacted in May and June said they would support
legislation to “limit pollution” by “charging energy
companies for carbon pollution in electricity or fuels like
gas.”  
 “In the aftermath of the spill, people firmly believe
Congress needs to do more than just make BP pay,” wrote
Benenson, who conducted polling for Obama’s presidential
campaign.  
 The poll numbers are unlikely to convince enough Democrats
to back a comprehensive climate measure. “I don’t think there
are 60 votes for a climate-change bill,” Dorgan said today on 
the Senate floor.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Dianne Feinstein. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Kevin Book, managing director at ClearView Energy Partners LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Margaret Brennan about the impact of the BP Plc oil spill on U.S. energy policy.
     President Barack Obama is meeting with BP Plc executives including Chairman Carl-Henric Svanberg at the White House today. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
