-- Colombia Coffee Growers Urge Halt to ICE Futures Proposal for Brazil Beans
-- Katia Cortes
-- 2010-06-16T19:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/colombia-coffee-growers-urge-halt-to-ice-plan-for-brazil-beans-on-quality.html

          
          
             Coffee growers in Colombia, the
world’s third-largest producer, urged ICE Futures U.S. to ditch
plans to change the benchmark contract for the commodity to
allow beans from Brazil to satisfy delivery obligations.  
 Adding coffee from Brazil, the largest grower, to the list
of acceptable supplies would compound pricing discrepancies and
concerns about the quality of exchange inventories, according to
a June 9 letter from the National Federation of Coffee Growers
of Colombia to New York-based ICE Futures that was obtained by
Bloomberg.  
 The change “would be detrimental to the integrity” of the
New York futures contract and “is not in the best interest of
the global coffee market,”  Luis Genaro Munoz , the federation’s
chief executive officer, said in the letter. Edgar Cordero, an
executive vice president for the Colombian organization in New
York, confirmed the letter today, declining further comment.  
 Brazil isn’t among the 19 arabica-coffee producers whose
beans are used to satisfy the ICE  contract , which allows
deliveries to exchange-licensed warehouse in the ports of New
York, New Orleans, Houston, Miami, Bremen/Hamburg, Antwerp and
Barcelona. The exchange said last month it  may expand  the list
to include Brazilian varieties.  
 “No decision on Brazil has been made at this point, and
any decision on Brazil would have no bearing on Colombia’s
deliverable status,”  Tim Barry , a vice president at the ICE
Futures, said today by e-mail.  
 Colombia is the second-largest  grower  of arabica beans
favored by specialty coffee retailers, including Starbucks Corp.
Brazil, the top arabica grower, is the second-largest producer
of robusta beans used in instant coffee and harvested mostly in
Asia and parts of Africa. Vietnam is the biggest  robusta grower .  
 Price Differential  
 Colombian and Central American coffees used by the exchange
have a “substantial and long-lasting differential” in price
and quality from Brazilian supplies, Munoz said in his letter.  
 The spread between Colombian and Brazilian prices widened
to 80 cents a pound in March from an average of 62 cents last
year and 15 cents in the period from 2000 to 2008, Munoz said.
Coffee futures for September delivery closed today in New York
at $1.596 a pound, up 28 percent from a year ago.  
 There also is concern that washed and semi-washed Brazilian
coffee deteriorates faster than Colombian beans, which would
require a new discounting mechanism for supplies from ICE
warehouses and new quality specifications, he said.  
 Brazil Wants Change  
 Producers in  Brazil  want ICE to move ahead with changes in
the New York contract, according to  Guilherme Braga , the general
director of the Brazilian Coffee Exporters Council.  
 The move “would help Brazil’s coffee have a better
international image for its quality,” Braga said today by
telephone from Sao Paulo. “It would even help us have more
access to specialty coffee markets.”  
 The countries whose beans are acceptable under the current
ICE contract including Mexico, El Salvador, Guatemala, Costa
Rica, Nicaragua, Kenya, New Guinea, Panama, Tanzania, Uganda,
Honduras and Peru, according to the exchange. Premiums are
charged for supplies from Colombia, and discounts are imposed
for arabica from Burundi, Venezuela, India, Rwanda, the
Dominican Republic and Ecuador.  
 Colombian production will rise to about 4.5 million bags in
the first six months of the year, compared with 4.24 million
bags a year earlier, the federation said last month. The harvest
this year will total 10 million to 11 million bags, up from a
33-year low of 7.8 million in 2009, the growers said. A bag
weighs 60 kilograms or 132 pounds.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
 Katia Cortes  in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 kcortes@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        