-- Takefuji Surges as Asset Sales Allow Payment of $453 Million Convertibles
-- Yusuke Miyazawa
-- 2010-06-17T06:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/consumer-lender-takefuji-said-to-redeem-453-million-of-convertible-bonds.html

          
          
             Takefuji Corp.  advanced in Tokyo
trading after a company official said Japan’s third-largest
consumer lender will be able to redeem 41.4 billion yen ($453
million) of convertible bonds on time.  
 The  stock  gained 6 percent after the person, who declined
to be identified, said Takefuji raised cash by selling
properties and loan assets. In a statement filed to the Tokyo
Stock Exchange after the market closed, Takefuji said it
transferred money to bondholders.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Akira Kiyokawa ’s next challenge
comes from stricter consumer lending laws that take effect
tomorrow and the repayment of at least $645 million of  bonds  due
in April next year. Moody’s Investors Service in March cut
Takefuji’s credit rating to Caa2, the fourth-lowest non-
investment grade, citing uncertainty over its funding plans and
borrowers’ claims for repayment of overcharged interest.  
 “Takefuji may be getting past one financing crisis but
it’s hard to be optimistic because the company faces another
redemption for global bonds next year,” said  Yoshie Fujimoto,  a
credit analyst at UBS Securities Japan Ltd.  
 The April bond repayment is roughly equivalent Takefuji’s
cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Takefuji’s stock rose to 302 yen at the close in Tokyo,
after earlier jumping as much as 15 percent.  
 Bullet in Letter  
 Convertible bondholders exercised a so-called put option
demanding repayment of 1.5 percent notes maturing in 2018 by
June 19, the company said in a June 2 statement. Takefuji told
shareholders in a June 9 report that it faced stricter lending
laws and a tough economy in which fundraising options were
unclear.  
 “There is great uncertainty surrounding the assumptions on
which the future of our business depends,” Takefuji said in the
document.  
 Two days later, an envelope containing a letter threatening
“retribution” and what appears to be a bullet was delivered to
the Tokyo home of Takefuji Deputy President  Taketeru Takei ,
according to a Tokyo Metropolitan Police officer. Police are
investigating the incident.  
 Japan’s Supreme Court in January 2006 invalidated contracts
allowing companies to charge as much as 29 percent interest on
loans, triggering claims for refunds that forced Takefuji and
its rivals to book losses.  
 Cash Holdings  
 Starting tomorrow, consumer lenders won’t be allowed to
extend loans that exceed a third of a borrower’s annual income,
and interest charges will be capped at 20 percent. Takefuji,
 Aiful Corp. , Promise Co. and Acom Co. face losses of 492 billion
yen over the next two years, according to estimates from Nomura
Holdings Inc.  
 Takefuji had 60.4 billion yen of cash and cash equivalent
assets as of March 31, compared with 97.9 billion yen a year
earlier, regulatory filings show. It posted a 4.6 billion yen
 profit  for the year ended March 31 after losing 256.1 billion
yen in the previous 12 months.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A man walks past a Takefuji Corp. branch office in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
