-- Cosan, Gerdau, Gruma, Palacio, Petrobras: Latin America Equity Preview
-- Eric Martin
-- 2010-06-16T06:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/cosan-gerdau-gruma-palacio-petrobras-latin-america-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Latin American trading. Stock symbols
are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous close.  
 The  MSCI Latin America Index  gained 1.6 percent to
3,871.04. In Brazil, preferred shares usually are the most-
traded class of stock.  
 Brazil  
 Cosan SA Industria & Comercio  (CSAN3 BS): The sugar-cane
processor’s bonds are trading like investment-grade assets on
speculation the world’s largest sugar-cane processor will
complete a $12 billion joint venture with Royal Dutch Shell Plc.
Cosan climbed 3.7 percent to 21.67 reais.  
 Gerdau SA  (GGBR4 BS): Latin America’s biggest steelmaker
was raised to “buy” from “hold” at Deutsche Bank AG, which
said the company’s earnings will probably increase and it has a
“positive strategy outlook.” Gerdau rose 1.8 percent to 25.59
reais.  
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA  (PETR4 BS): CGGVeritas, the world’s
largest seismic surveyor of oilfields, said it signed an
agreement with Brazil’s government-controlled oil company known
as Petrobras to work together to develop geophysics
technologies. Petrobras lost 0.2 percent to 29 reais.  
 Chile  
 Banco de Credito & Inversiones  (BCI CC): Chile’s third-
largest bank by market value had profit of 78.7 billion pesos
for the first five months, according to a statement posted on
its website. It didn’t give a year-ago comparison. Banco de
Credito lost 0.8 percent to 21,270 pesos.  
 Mexico  
 Gruma SAB  (GRUMAB MM): Mexico’s largest maker of corn flour
for tortillas said the Venezuelan government took over its
Demaseca unit in May and that it cannot “assure” that the
government will not take over more of its operations. Gruma rose
2.4 percent to 21.04 pesos.  
 Grupo Palacio de Hierro SA  (GPH1 MM): The Mexican retailer
said it agreed to end its partnership with Chilean department
store chain Ripley Corp. Grupo Palacio was unchanged at 57
pesos.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in New York at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        