-- Cosan Trades Like Investment Grade After `Game Changer' Accord With Shell
-- Gabrielle Coppola
-- 2010-06-16T22:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/cosan-trades-likes-investment-grade-after-game-changer-accord-with-shell.html

          
          
             Cosan SA Industria & Comercio’s 
bonds are trading like investment-grade assets on speculation
the world’s largest sugar-cane processor will complete a $12
billion joint venture with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc.   
 The yield on Cosan’s dollar bonds due 2014, which are rated
BB- by Standard & Poor’s, or three levels below investment
grade, was 48 basis points less than the average for BBB-rated
corporate securities in Latin America, according to data
compiled by Trace and Credit Suisse Group AG. On Jan. 29, the
last trading day before Barra Bonita, Brazil-based Cosan
announced it was planning a partnership with Shell, the debt
yielded 171 basis points more than that of BBB-rated companies.  
 The bonds will keep rallying because the agreement to
combine ethanol, sugar and fuel distribution assets with Shell
may earn Cosan an investment-grade rating by cutting  debt
ratios , according to  Cornel Bruhin , who oversees $400 million of
emerging-market assets at Clariden Leu AG.  
 “For Cosan, the deal is a game changer,” Bruhin, who
bought some of the 2014 bonds this month, said in a telephone
interview from Zurich. “There’s an opportunity for the company
to be a major energy player in Brazil. There’s more upside for
the bonds.”  
 Bonds Rally  
 Yields on Cosan’s $350 million of 9.5 percent notes due
2014 declined 219 basis points, or 2.19 percentage points, since
Jan. 29 to 5.39 percent, outpacing the 22 basis-point average
drop in Brazilian corporate dollar debt over that time,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI index . The price on
the Cosan bonds climbed seven cents to 114 cents on the dollar
even as sugar, the company’s biggest product, sank 46 percent
from its 21-year high in January.  
 The accord calls for Cosan and Shell, Europe’s largest oil
company by market value, to each contribute $4.9 billion in
assets to the joint venture, according to a Feb. 1 statement.
The companies have until the end of July to complete the accord.  
 A Cosan official in Sao Paulo who asked to remain anonymous
in accordance with company policy declined to comment on the
status of negotiations yesterday. David Williams, a spokesperson
in the Hague for Shell, declined to comment. Hague-based Shell,
which is  rated AA  by S&P, reported a 57 percent increase in
earnings in the first quarter from a year earlier to $5.5
billion.  
 Rating Increase  
 Cosan’s  leverage ratio  -- as measured by net debt to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization -
- may fall to 1 after the agreement from 3.3 at the end of the
third quarter, according to a February report by Itau Unibanco
Holding SA, Brazil’s biggest bank by market value.  
 Both S&P and Moody’s Investors Service placed  Cosan  on
positive outlook after the Feb. 1 announcement. Moody’s, which
rates Cosan Ba3, or three levels below investment grade, said in
a March 1 report that the joint venture could result in “more
than a one-notch” upgrade of Cosan’s existing senior unsecured
rating. Cosan’s credit profile is likely to “improve,” Moody’s
analysts wrote in the report.  
 Cosan plans to hold “a new realm” of conversations with
rating companies this week, Chief Financial Officer  Marcelo Martins  said in a June 11 conference call with analysts. The
company expects a rating increase after the joint venture is
completed, he said.  
 “The transaction should improve the company’s business
profile as the fuel distribution business, which is more stable
than sugar and ethanol, will have a bigger proportion in cash
generation,” said  Reginaldo Takara , an S&P analyst in Sao
Paulo, in an interview today.  
 Takara said the rating agency is waiting for more details
about the structure of the joint venture upon its conclusion
before taking action.  
 ‘Big Brother’  
 Filippe Goossens, the analyst who covers Cosan for Moody’s
in New York, didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment after
business hours yesterday.  
 Cosan “gets a big brother -- a very wealthy big brother,”
said  Jansen Moura , a corporate bond analyst with BCP Securities
in Rio de Janeiro, said in a telephone interview. “If you’re a
bondholder, you’re happy because of the de-leveraging, the fact
that you may have more cash flow coming in over the coming
years. You have a company with a better financial situation than
the one from which you bought the bonds.”  
 Cosan’s Debt  
 Moura has a “marketperform” rating on  Cosan bonds , saying
the rally over the past four months left the debt “priced to
perfection.” Bruhin said the price on the bonds will climb at
least another 3 percent if the company makes investment grade.  
 Cosan had total debt of $2.9 billion as of March 31,
including $400 million of dollar bonds due in 2017, according to
Barclays Plc analysts  Juan Cruz  and  Autumn Graham .  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries rose one
basis point to 224 today, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.
The spread has increased from 196 at the end of April.  
 The cost of protecting the nation’s debt against non-
payment for five years with credit-default swaps rose one basis
points to 134, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The real was little changed at 1.7873 per dollar. It’s up
1.9 percent this month, following a 4.5 percent plunge in April.
The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January, the most active in Sao Paulo trading, fell three basis
points to 11.2 percent.  
 Cosan’s shares jumped 11 percent, the most in 10 months,
when the partnership was unveiled on Feb. 1. They have declined
4.4 percent since to 22.54 reais.  
 Cosan, founded in 1936 by the Ometto family in Sao Paulo,
reported its fourth consecutive quarterly profit last week,
earning 308.7 million reais in the three months ended March 31.  
 ‘Transformational’  
 The Shell accord follows Cosan’s 2008 purchase of 1,500 gas
stations and other assets in Brazil from Exxon Mobil Corp. for
$826 million. The combination with Shell will create the second-
largest fuel distributor in the country after state-owned
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, according to  Eric Ollom , chief emerging-
market strategist with Jefferies & Co. in New York.  
 “The deal is transformational for Cosan,” Ollom said in a
telephone interview. “We continue to be positive on the
credit.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net 
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Cosan had total debt of $2.9 billion as of March 31  
                       
                         
                           JC Franca/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Sugarcane is processed at the Cosan SA Industria e Comercio facility in Piracicaba, Brazil. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Sugarcane is processed at the Cosan SA Industria e Comercio facility in Piracicaba, Brazil. Photographer: JC Franca/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
