-- Crude Oil, Gasoline Futures Increase as U.S. Refiners Curb Operating Rates
-- Mark Shenk
-- 2010-06-16T21:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/crude-oil-futures-decline-as-u-s-housing-starts-decrease-supplies-gain.html

          
          
             Crude oil rose to a six-week high
after gasoline surged on a report that U.S. refineries cut
operating rates and supplies of the motor fuel declined.  
 Refineries  operated  at 87.9 percent of capacity, down 1.2
percentage points from the prior week. Gasoline supplies  fell 
636,000 barrels to 218.3 million last week, the Energy
Department said. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News were split
over whether stockpiles of the fuel would rise or fall.  
 “The refinery utilization number is pulling up the
products markets and that’s supporting crude,” said  Jason Schenker , president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-
based energy consultant. “This definitely looks like a product-
driven rally.”  
 Crude oil for July delivery rose 73 cents, or 1 percent, to
$77.67 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement price since May 5. Futures are up 10 percent from a
year ago.  
 Gasoline climbed 2.37 cents, or 1.1 percent, to close at
$2.1452 a gallon in New York. It was the highest settlement
since May 13. Heating oil for July delivery increased 4.16
cents, or 2 percent, to settle at $2.1101 a gallon, the highest
level since May 13.  
 U.S. gasoline consumption peaks from the Memorial Day
weekend in late May to Labor Day in early September. Gasoline
 demand  rose 1.6 percent to 9.34 million barrels a day, the
highest level since the week ended Aug. 28.  
 “The drawdown in gasoline was somewhat supportive,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of consultant Schork Group Inc. in
Villanova, Pennsylvania. “Both gasoline demand and draws
usually peak after the July 4 holiday.”  
 Crack Spread  
 The decline in gasoline supplies and refinery operating
rates pushed the  margin , or crack spread, for processing three
barrels of oil into two of gasoline and one of heating oil to
the highest level since June 3. The margin increased 5.9 percent
to $12.097, based on futures prices.  
 “The drop in refinery runs comes as a surprise given how
strong the margins are,” said  Rick Mueller , director of oil
markets at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
Massachusetts.  
 Supplies  of crude oil rose 1.69 million barrels to 363.1
million in the week ended June 11, the department said.
Stockpiles were forecast to fall 1 million barrels, according to
the median of 15 analyst responses in the Bloomberg News survey.  
 Inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that includes
diesel and heating oil, increased 1.8 million barrels to 156.6
million. A 1-million-barrel gain was forecast.  
 “Demand is creeping up, and there’s plenty of supply to
meet any increase,” Mueller said. “The fundamental story is
unchanged.”  
 BP Promise  
 BP Plc Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  agreed to provide $20
billion to pay “all proper claims” from the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill after what he called a constructive meeting with President
 Barack Obama .  
 “He’s frustrated because he cares about the small people,
and we care about the small people,” Svanberg said today after
the White House meeting. “I hear comments sometimes that large
oil companies are greedy companies that don’t care. That is not
the case in BP. We care about the small people.”  
 Svanberg spoke after meeting Obama and his senior advisers
to hammer out the plan for compensating Gulf Coast residents and
businesses affected by the oil spill from a damaged BP well. The
chairman apologized for the oil spill, which he called an
accident that shouldn’t have happened.  
 Moratorium  
 The spill began when a rig sank April 22, two days after
the well it was drilling exploded, killing 11 workers. The U.S.
government in May extended a moratorium on deepwater drilling
permits by six months and ordered a halt to exploratory wells
after the explosion.  
 “The political risk to U.S. production in the Gulf is
underpinning this market,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at
Round Earth Capital, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on
food and energy. “This is an unusual situation because it’s the
first time I can recall that political risk in this country has
had an impact on the market.”  
 Brent crude oil for August settlement rose $1.04, or 1.4
percent, to end the session at $78.14 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  
 Oil volume on the Nymex was 612,951 contracts as of 3:12
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 617,222
contracts yesterday, 21 percent less than the average of the
past three months. Open interest was 1.34 million contracts.  
 The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        