-- Deloitte Said to Consider Move to Merrill's 4 World Financial Center Space
-- David M. Levitt
-- 2010-06-16T20:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/deloitte-said-to-consider-moving-into-merrill-s-4-world-financial-center.html

          
          
             Deloitte LLP is negotiating with
Brookfield Properties Corp. about moving into Merrill Lynch &
Co.’s former  headquarters  building at  lower Manhattan’s  World
Financial Center, two people familiar with the talks said.  
 Deloitte, one of accounting’s “Big Four” firms, may lease
400,000 to 450,000 square feet (37,000 to 42,000 square meters)
at 4 World Financial Center, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because negotiations are ongoing. Deloitte has the
biggest space among 11 companies that sublet offices from
Merrill at 2 World Financial Center, part of Brookfield’s 8
million square-foot  office  park on the Hudson River waterfront.  
 A deal could rank among Manhattan’s largest office lease
signings this year. It also would help Brookfield tackle one of
its biggest challenges: what to do about expirations on the more
than half of the financial center leased to Merrill, which was
taken over in 2008 by  Bank of America Corp.  Leases on all 4.6
million square feet expire in 2013.  
 Signing Deloitte would “help solidify downtown as a very
viable office market,” said James Emden, vice chairman for
tenant representation at Colliers International, a brokerage
firm not involved in the talks.  
 Some of lower Manhattan’s biggest financial firms,
including Merrill, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and American
International Group Inc., have been vacating space. At the same
time, about 4.4 million square feet of offices are under
construction at the  World Trade Center site , across the street
from the financial center.  
 ‘Position of Strength’  
 “Brookfield always thought they were negotiating from a
position of strength with that particular complex in lower
Manhattan,” said  John Guinee , a Baltimore-based real-estate
analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co., who rates the stock a
“buy.” “And I would bet that when the details get out people
will perceive this as a good deal for Brookfield.”  
 Goldman Sachs’s move of its headquarters to a new tower
across the street from 4 World Financial “changed the epicenter
of downtown from Wall Street to the West Side,” Guinee said.
This gives Brookfield an advantage over landlords with older
buildings in the center of lower Manhattan, he said.  
 Brookfield rose 32 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $15.47 at
4:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
highest price in four weeks. The shares had the biggest gain in
the Dow Jones U.S. Real Estate Industry Group Index, which fell
0.8 percent.  
 Biggest Leases  
 The largest office signing this year was a 481,000 square-
foot renewal by the State of New York at 60 Broad St. in lower
Manhattan, according to the brokerage firm Cassidy Turley.
Midtown’s biggest leases were a 415,000 square-foot renewal by
New York Life Insurance Co. at 63 Madison Ave., and a 406,000
square-foot agreement by law firm Proskauer Rose LLP to move to
a new skyscraper at 11 Times Square.  
 Jonathan Gandal, a Deloitte spokesman, said the company’s
options remain open. “No final decision has been made and no
contracts have been signed,” he said.  
 Melissa Coley , a Brookfield spokeswoman, said the company
“is pleased to be in direct discussions with all the subtenants
at 2 World Financial Center.”  
 Rent  revenue  from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch accounted
for 12 percent of Brookfield’s total U.S. income in 2009,
according to the New York-based company’s annual report. The
Merrill lease expirations in 2013 include 1.9 million square
feet subleased to companies such as Deloitte, Nomura Holdings
Inc. and OppenheimerFunds Inc.  
 Brookfield controlled 93 properties totaling 70 million
square feet in the central office districts of New York, Boston,
Washington, Los Angeles, Houston, Toronto, Calgary and Ottawa at
the end of March.  
 Merrill Subtenants  
 Deloitte occupies 633,000 square feet at the financial
center, most of it sublet from Merrill at 2 World Financial,
according to Brookfield. Nomura has about 500,000 square feet.
Other Merrill subtenants include Oppenheimer with 189,000 feet,
Commerzbank AG with 160,000 feet, as well as State Street Bank,
the law firm D’Amato & Lynch LLP, Platinum Underwriters and
Hunter Roberts Construction.  
 Brookfield has signed law firm Sonnenschein Nath &
Rosenthal LLP to an extension through 2018 for 135,000 square
feet, Coley said.  
 Deloitte had discussions with the owners of Worldwide Plaza
at Eighth Avenue and West 50th Street to move its downtown
operations to Midtown, two people familiar with those talks said
last year. The advertising firm Ogilvy & Mather vacated 14
stories in that 49-story tower in June 2009.  
 2013 Expiries  
 “We have been working really hard on these 2013 expiries
within our portfolio downtown,” Brookfield Chief Executive
Officer Richard “Ric” Clark said June 9 during a session at
the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
conference in Chicago. “We’re currently in negotiations trading
paper with 3.3 million square feet of tenants.”  
 Brookfield is waiting for Bank of America to say whether it
wants to keep any offices at the World Financial Center beyond
2013, according to Clark. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based
bank, the biggest in the U.S. by  market value , co-owns a new 2.1
million square-foot skyscraper, 1 Bryant Park, in midtown
Manhattan.  
 Bank of America has been moving workers back to the
financial center this year after previously relocating staff to
Midtown, Clark said on a May 6 conference call. He called that
“a positive signal.” The bank has a 49 percent ownership stake
in 4 World Financial, according to a Brookfield  regulatory
filing .  
 Bank of America declined to comment, according to an e-mail
from spokesman T.J. Crawford.  
 Deloitte ranked second in 2008 for auditing market share
behind PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, A.M. Best & Co. said in
January.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        