-- Axel Springer, Deutsche Bank, Infineon, RWE, Sixt: German Equity Preview
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-06-16T06:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/deutsche-bank-infineon-rwe-shares-may-be-active-german-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in Germany. Stock
symbols are in parentheses and prices are from the last close.  
 DAX Index futures expiring in June gained 0.5 percent to
6,206.50 as of 8:03 a.m. in Frankfurt. The  DAX Index  rose 0.8
percent to 6,175.05 yesterday.  
 Axel Springer AG  (SPR GY): Europe’s largest newspaper
publisher plans to boost revenue it generates from digital media
to about 50 percent in the next seven years, Chief Financial
Officer  Lothar Lanz  told Finanz und Wirtschaft in an interview.
The shares dropped 0.1 percent to 79.80 euros.  
 Bayer AG  (BAYN GY): Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc.
and Bayer Schering Pharma AG said they sued Teva Pharmaceuticals
USA Inc., Barr Pharmaceuticals LLC, and Barr Laboratories Inc.
in the Northern District of Illinois for false advertising and
patent infringement related to Teva’s generic oral
contraceptive, Gianvi. Bayer shares climbed 0.2 percent to 48.08
euros.  
 Deutsche Bank AG  (DBK GY): Germany’s biggest bank named
 Anshu Jain  the sole head of its corporate and investment bank,
the company’s biggest money maker. The shares rose 2 percent to
49.54 euros.  
 Draegerwerk AG & Co. KGaA  (DRW3 GY): The German maker of
medical equipment was raised to “overweight” from “neutral”
at HSBC Holdings Plc. The shares jumped 5.3 percent to 56.25
euros.  
 Infineon Technologies AG  (IFX GY): The chipmaker is
weighing options for its mobile-chip unit that could include a
sale, according to two people familiar with the matter. It hired
JPMorgan Chase & Co. as an adviser, according to one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the situation is
private. JPMorgan’s London-based spokeswoman  Sarah Oppler 
declined to comment, as did Infineon spokesman  Christian Hoenicke . The shares advanced 3.4 percent to 5.11 euros.  
 RWE AG  (RWE GY): Germany’s second-biggest utility may cut
its dividend payout if a tax on Germany’s nuclear plant
operators is enacted,  Westdeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung  said,
citing Chief Financial Officer  Rolf Pohlig . The shares gained
0.7 percent to 57.29 euros.  
 Sixt AG  (SIX3 GY): The company aims to return to pre-crisis
earnings levels next year, Handelsblatt reported, citing an
interview with Chief Executive Officer  Erich Sixt .  
 The German car-hire company expects to earn more in 2010
than in 2009, according to the newspaper report. The shares
dropped 1.2 percent to 16 euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        