-- Development Projects in Asia, Middle East to Spur Sukuk Sales, CIMB Says
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-06-16T07:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/development-projects-in-asia-middle-east-to-spur-sukuk-sales-cimb-says.html

          
          
             Islamic bond sales will pick up next
year as governments in Asia and the Middle East spend more on
roads and other infrastructure developments, according to
Barclays Capital and CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.  
 Malaysia, the world’s largest sukuk market, last week
announced a five-year plan showing annual development spending
will rise 23 percent to 142.4 billion ringgit ($44 billion) in
2015, from an estimated 115.5 billion ringgit in 2010. Saudi
Arabia, the world’s biggest oil supplier, plans to spend $400
billion in the five years through 2013 on infrastructure
projects such as roads, airports and water projects.  
 “There are huge opportunities,”  Harris Irfan , head of
Islamic products at Barclays Capital said at the annual World
Islamic Banking Conference in Singapore on June 14. “By 2011, I
hope to see a lot more pickup” in sukuk sales.  
 Saudi Arabia has allocated almost $70 billion to
development projects this year, 16 percent more than in 2009.
Saudi Arabian Oil, the world’s largest state-owned oil company,
and French producer Total SA said in March they plan to raise $8
billion in debt financing that may include Islamic bonds for a
joint refinery and petrochemical project.  
 Projects in Malaysia include a mass rapid transit system in
Kuala Lumpur that can carry two million passengers per day when
completed, the government said in a report last week.  
 “You only need one or two deals to spur issuance in a big
way in the Middle East,”  Badlisyah Abdul Ghani , head of Islamic
banking at Kuala Lumpur-based CIMB Group Holdings said in a
phone interview on June 15. “Once the market sees that others
will follow and, when that happens, most definitely growth”
will accelerate, he said, declining to quantify his forecast.  
 Issuance Slump  
 Gulf issuers raised $2.3 billion from sukuk sales so far
this year, about 19 percent less than the amount they borrowed
during the same period of 2009, Bloomberg data show. Local-
currency sukuk sales in Malaysia have dropped 47 percent to 8.8
billion ringgit as fewer infrastructure projects were started in
the first part of the year.  
 Islamic finance transactions are based on the exchange of
asset flows rather than interest to comply with the religion’s
Shariah principles.  
 The Islamic finance industry’s assets may reach $1.6
trillion by 2012, according to the Kuala Lumpur-based  Islamic
Financial Services Board , a standards setting body. Global sukuk
sales rose 43 percent to $20 billion in 2009, from $14.1 billion
the previous year, according to Bloomberg data. Issuance of the
notes reached a record $31 billion in 2007.  
 Middle East Demand  
 Middle East demand for infrastructure investments is
strengthening after the global financial crisis battered
property markets in the region, according to Arif Mohammed Al
Alawi, who oversees about $100 million of funds as chief
executive officer of Bahrain-based Tharawat Investment House.  
 “Those who were hurt heavily in real estate have started
opening doors for investments in low-risk sukuks in
infrastructure and in manufacturing,” Alawi, who initiated an
Islamic fund to invest in a water project last year, said in a
June 14 interview.  
 The scope for issuance to increase to meet that demand is
improving. The Qatari government and state-owned companies plan
to spend as much as $100 billion in the next four years on
projects including roads, sewage treatment, water treatment,
ports and airports, Finance Minister  Yousef Hussain Kamal  said
on June 10.  
 The United Arab Emirates, among the four biggest oil
producers in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
is investing in nuclear power and railways to revive economic
growth in 2010 and 2011, central bank Governor  Sultan Bin Nasser al-Suwaidi  said June 14.  
 UAE awarded a 75 billion-dirham ($20.4 billion) contract in
December to a group led by Korea Electric Power Corp. to build
nuclear power plants.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        