-- Diebold's June 2 Drop May Show How `Dueling Algorithms' Roil Stock Markets
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-06-16T15:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/diebold-s-june-2-drop-may-show-how-dueling-algorithms-roil-stock-markets.html

          
          
             Just as a June 2 meeting with
investors was starting, Diebold Inc. Chief Executive Officer
 Thomas Swidarski  saw his company’s share price plummet more than
30 percent in six seconds.  
 As Swidarski and his colleagues tried to figure out what to
say at their meeting, the price shot back up. By the end of the
day, more than 6 million shares of the Canton, Ohio-based maker
of ATM machines had traded, about 11 times the usual volume. The
stock closed at $29.08, 3 percent higher than its opening.  
 The plunge is under review by U.S. regulators, according to
people with direct knowledge of the investigation. It may have
occurred when a shred of  Diebold  news bounced into the growing
network of computer programs that search out financial
information, analyze it and trade instantly without human
involvement, market analysts said. The incident highlights
concerns about high-speed trading like those surrounding the May
6 selloff that erased $862 billion from the stock market in less
than 20 minutes.  
 “The days when humans traded with humans have long since
been replaced by my computer trades with your computer,” said
 James Angel , a finance professor at Georgetown University in
Washington. “What we see here are dueling algorithms. Some
algorithm triggers, the stock falls, the other investors look
and say that’s old news and start buying.”  
 Diebold’s  June 2 freefall started after the Securities and
Exchange Commission announced that the company would pay $25
million to settle allegations of fraudulent accounting. The
accord was old news; a year earlier Diebold had announced it
agreed in principle to pay that amount to end the investigation
of its discontinued practice of recording some sales before
machines were delivered. The SEC on June 2 also filed suit
against three former Diebold executives.  
 Six Seconds  
 At 12:22 p.m., Diebold plunged $8 in six seconds to $18.26,
according to Bloomberg data. The stock recovered and by 12:23
p.m. was trading above $25.  
 Company spokesman  Michael Jacobsen  said Diebold is
considering whether and how to investigate the plunge.  
 While regulators haven’t ruled out the possibility that the
Diebold trades were executed manually, they are racing to catch
up with an industry that executes transactions by the
millisecond.  
 The SEC, staffed mainly with attorneys and accountants, is
adding statisticians and former hedge-fund employees to its
ranks. Last month, the agency proposed a $4 billion system to
track unusual market events and suspicious trades in real time.  
 The agency is “worried about the innocent bystanders,”
said  Terrance Hendershott , an associate professor of finance at
the University of California at Berkeley’s Haas School of
Business. “Everyone wants to believe that when they send their
order in, they are going to get the fair price.”  
 Historical Events  
 Use of software to analyze and trade within milliseconds on
news from press releases, headlines and news stories has taken
off in the past three years, said Timothy Sargent, chief
executive officer of Naperville, Illinois-based  Quantitative
Services Group LLC . The software is based on algorithms that
process historical data, events or keywords that have pushed
stock prices up or down in the past.  
 “There is a parsing activity to look at the flavor of the
words chosen,” said Sargent, whose company sells research to
institutional investors. “Obviously, there will be negative
words and positive words.”  
 News Corp.’s  Dow Jones,  Thomson Reuters Corp.  and Bloomberg
LP supply news for algorithmic trading. Bloomberg LP is the
parent company of Bloomberg News.  
 ‘Arms Race’  
 Temporary price fluctuations have led some firms to install
software that looks to profit by buying at the low point of a
swing. Pipeline Trading Systems LLC assists institutional
investors in implementing algorithms that aim to identify the
end of a selloff, said  Fred Federspiel , the company’s founder.  
 “It’s an arms race between institutional traders who are
moving positions driven by portfolio managers and traders who
are deploying these tools to figure out which direction to trade
a particular stock,” said Federspiel, who earned a doctorate in
nuclear physics from the University of Illinois in Champaign and
previously worked at  Los Alamos National Laboratory in New
Mexico . “If one party comes to this interaction without a well-
programmed machine on their side, they are likely to lose a lot
of money.”  
 Traders don’t care if algorithms occasionally misinterpret
data as long as computers keep mistakes to a minimum, said
Sargent of Quantitative Services Group.  
 “The dollars and the money to be made being right a
majority of the time is enough to pursue these strategies,” he
said. “We are going to get these glaring circumstances, but for
every one of those, there are a number of trades where it works
very well.”  
 Circuit Breakers  
 To respond to the May 6  crash , the SEC and exchanges are
implementing curbs on a trial basis to halt trading of  Standard
& Poor’s 500  Index stocks when their prices rise or fall 10
percent in less than five minutes. The circuit-breaker test,
which is scheduled to last through Dec. 10, will pause trading
for five minutes to let market participants assess news about
the company and submit new buy and sell orders.  
 While Diebold isn’t listed on the S&P 500, SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  said last week that she plans to “rapidly”
expand the six-month pilot program to “thousands” of
additional companies.  
 Investigations  
 Trading specialists and enforcement attorneys at the SEC
and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority are examining
what triggered the Diebold trades and whether the selloff could
have resulted from manipulation or inside information, according
to people familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the probes aren’t public. NYSE Arca and  Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. , which reviewed the trades for misconduct and
pricing errors, determined they should stand.  
 Four hundred twenty-seven trades occurred in Diebold below
$23 on June 2 covering about 113,600 shares, according to
Bloomberg data. All of the trades took place on electronic
venues such as Nasdaq Stock Market and Bats Exchange. No
transactions occurred on the New York Stock Exchange for 70
seconds starting at 12:22 p.m.  
 Diebold CEO Swidarski was on the road that day with another
company official to speak with investors, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the trip.  
 NYSE spokesman  Ray Pellecchia  said a so-called liquidity
replenishment point was triggered in Diebold that switched
electronic trading to automated auctions overseen by humans.
Other trading venues don’t use the curbs.  
 On May 6, liquidity replenishment points caused sell orders
to flow to other platforms. The SEC and Commodity Futures
Trading Commission said in a May 18 report that they are
analyzing the LRP system to determine whether it exacerbated the
crash.  
 ‘On the Lookout’  
 The Diebold plunge is not the first to be reviewed by
regulators. News reports in March said the SEC is also examining
why  Dendreon Corp.’s  shares fell 69 percent in less than two
minutes in April 2009. Minutes after trading was halted, the
Seattle-based drug developer said its Provenge cancer treatment
extended the lives of men in a clinical study, spurring a rally
of more than 130 percent after hours.  
 “We’re constantly on the lookout for aberrational
trading,” said  Scott Friestad , an associate director in the
SEC’s enforcement division, declining to comment on any
particular case. “When we find trading that looks suspicious,
it’s our normal practice to take steps to determine whether any
improper conduct occurred.”  
 Diebold’s sudden spike in trading may have hurt investors
who used so-called market orders and stop-loss orders, said
Hendershott, who researches electronic markets and does
consulting for firms that engage in high-frequency trading.  
 Stop-Loss Orders  
 A client placing a market order is requesting that a broker
buy or sell a stock as quickly as possible at any price. During
the Diebold plunge, a broker who received a market order when
shares traded for $22.73 might not have executed the transaction
until shares sold for $18.99 less than one second later. The
client would have lost more than 16 percent of the investment,
only to see the stock immediately recover.  
 A stop-loss order tells a broker to sell shares for a
client at a specific price to cap losses. Trading in Diebold may
have triggered stop-loss orders, adding to the downward
momentum.  
 “If people think the market is rigged or does all these
weird things, why would they have any faith that they will ever
get their money back,” Hendershott said. “Why would people
choose to put money in the markets to help firms grow and raise
capital?”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Diebold CEO Thomas Swidarski  
                       
                         
                           Diebold Inc. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Minutes before a June 2 meeting with investors, Diebold CEO Thomas Swidarski saw his company's share price plummet more than 30 percent in six seconds. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Minutes before a June 2 meeting with investors, Diebold CEO Thomas Swidarski saw his company's share price plummet more than 30 percent in six seconds. Source: Diebold Inc. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
