-- Disney's Eisner Said `Millionaire' as Big as NFL Deal
-- Tori Richards
-- 2010-06-16T21:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/disney-s-eisner-said-millionaire-as-big-as-nfl-deal.html

          
          
             Former  Walt Disney Co.  Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Eisner  said in a 1999 e-mail that
“Who Wants to Be a Millionaire” was as important to Disney’s
ABC network as its National Football League deal.  
 Eisner, in a second 1999 e-mail also presented today at a
trial, estimated the value of the rights to the game show at
$1 billion and said it would turn ABC around. The e-mails were
introduced as evidence by lawyers for the show’s creator, which
accuses Disney, the world’s largest media company, of cheating
it out of its share of the profit.  
 “Of course we own it and it costs almost nothing,” Eisner
said in an Aug. 24, 1999, message, shown to the federal court
jury in Riverside, California, by  Roman Silberfeld , a lawyer for
Celador International Ltd. “Sometimes the entertainment
business is just wonderful.”  
 Closely held Celador sued Disney six years ago, alleging
Disney’s Buena Vista Television unit broke an implied promise by
failing to negotiate a higher license fee with Disney’s ABC
television network after the show became a hit. That prevented
Buena Vista from making a bigger profit that it would have had
to share with the creators, according to London-based Celador.  
 Eisner’s e-mails were allowed as evidence because the
former CEO, who left Burbank, California-based  Disney  in 2005,
is out of the country and can’t testify at the trial. The
creators seek more than $200 million in damages for the network
run of “Millionaire” as well as $16 million for merchandising.  
 Robert Iger , Eisner’s successor, told jurors today that he
didn’t necessarily believe the quiz show would turn ABC around.  
 ‘Great Enthusiast’  
 “Mr. Eisner was a great enthusiast and he often got
excited about things even to the point of making wild guesses in
describing the billion-dollar estimate,” Iger testified under
questioning by Silberfeld. “I’m less excitable. I was far from
describing it using his terms.”  
 Iger, who headed ABC before becoming Disney president in
2000, said “Millionaire” was “a factor” in a $1.1 billion
increase in  broadcasting revenue  in 2000. There were “other
factors,” he said.  
 Responding to questions from Disney’s lawyer,  Martin Katz ,
Iger said the company honors its contracts and doesn’t pay
people more than they are owed. ABC takes the risk with shows
because it has to go out and sell advertising, Iger said.  
 ‘Implied Promise’  
 Celador claims it entered into an agreement in 1998 with
ABC and Buena Vista, a Disney production and distribution unit,
that entitled the creators to a share of the show’s profit in
North America. Buena Vista made an “implied promise” in the
agreement to “act in good faith” to obtain the highest
possible price for the show, according to Celador.  
 ABC paid below-market value for “Millionaire” because
Buena Vista, at Disney’s behest, didn’t seek a higher fee after
the show became a success, according to Celador. Disney, using
an affiliated company, also inflated production costs, the
creators said.  
 The case is Celador International Ltd. v. Walt Disney Co.
04-03541, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Riverside.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Meredith Mansfield from Atlanta, right, speaks with host Regis Philbin during a taping of "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" in New York. Source: Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Former Walt Disney CEO Michael Eisner  
                       
                         
                           Chip East/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Former Walt Disney CEO Michael Eisner speaking at the World Business Forum in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Former Walt Disney CEO Michael Eisner speaking at the World Business Forum in New York.  Photographer: Chip East/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
