-- Durbin Seeks to Exempt Benefits Cards in Debit Curbs
-- Peter Eichenbaum
-- 2010-06-16T21:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/durbin-seeks-to-exempt-prepaid-u-s-benefit-cards-from-debit-fee-limits.html

          
          
             U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin , the
Illinois Democrat pushing for caps on debit-card “swipe” fees,
said legislators may exempt prepaid cards that governments use
to distribute benefits.  
 “It’s a special-case situation,” Durbin said today during
a Washington hearing on fees the federal government pays to
accept debit and credit cards. “We are working on an amendment
that will carve out these government types of cards.”  
 Opponents of Durbin’s proposal, including  Visa Inc.  and
 MasterCard Inc. , say reducing swipe or interchange fees would
diminish or eliminate the incentive for banks to issue prepaid
cards. Most state governments use those products to distribute
benefits to senior citizens and needy families. Lawmakers are
considering caps on the fees as part of the financial overhaul
bill.  
 At least 10 state treasurers, including  Shane Osborn  of
Nebraska and  Nancy K. Kopp  of Maryland, have said that Durbin’s
amendment threatens to undermine their prepaid card programs.  
 “These cards eliminate the need to print and mail checks
to government assistance beneficiaries, saving our state -- and
taxpayers -- millions of dollars each year,” the treasurers
wrote in a June 4 letter. “This is an especially important
benefit for recipients who are ‘unbanked,’ sparing them from
high check-cashing and money-order fees they are otherwise
forced to pay in order to access funds and pay bills.”  
 Federal Reserve Role  
 Durbin’s plan would allow the Federal Reserve to limit
debit-card interchange rates set by Visa and MasterCard, the
world’s biggest payment networks, which pass that money along to
card-issuing banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Citigroup
Inc.   
 U.S. merchants paid fees of $19.7 billion last year tied to
Visa and MasterCard debit transactions, according to the Nilson
Report, an industry newsletter. The fees averaged 1.63 percent
of each sale.  
 The Senate voted 64-33 on May 13 to approve Durbin’s
measure, which also would allow retailers to offer discounts for
cash, checks or debit cards, or for a particular card brand, and
let merchants set minimums and maximums for credit-card
purchases.  
 The vote margin in the Senate makes it likely that some
version of the amendment will be included in the final
legislation, according to Representative  Barney Frank , the
Massachusetts Democrat in charge of the committee that will
merge the House and Senate bills.  
 Representative  Debbie Wasserman Schultz , a Florida
Democrat, persuaded 131 House members to sign a letter urging
the conferees to oppose Durbin’s amendment, according to an e-
mailed statement today from her office. Wasserman Schultz, a
member of the House majority’s leadership team, said consumers
will face higher fees if Congress limits interchange fees.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. Senator Richard Durbin  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. Senator Richard Durbin speaks during a hearing in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. Senator Richard Durbin speaks during a hearing in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Luz Rodriguez, right, uses a debit-card to pay for her items at a Wal-Mart Supercenter in Denver. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
