-- ECB's Mersch Says Euro-Area Economic Recovery Should Strengthen Next Year
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-06-16T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/ecb-s-mersch-says-euro-area-economic-recovery-should-strengthen-next-year.html

          
          
             European Central Bank council member
 Yves Mersch  said economic growth in the euro area should be
stronger next year.  
 “While the pickup of the economic recovery in the euro
zone continues,” the economy “will be marked by slow and non-
linear growth,” Mersch said today in the annual report of
Luxembourg’s central bank, which he heads. “Growth in the euro
zone could be strengthened in 2011.”  
 Europe’s debt crisis has undermined investor confidence and
forced governments to step up spending cuts, clouding the
economic outlook. Investor confidence in Germany, the region’s
largest economy, plunged in June on concern the turmoil will
hamper growth. Still, companies have started to boost output as
the weaker euro and reviving global growth bolster exports.  
 “Risks to the economic outlook are globally balanced in a
context marked by an exceptionally high uncertainty,” said
Mersch, who was last month reappointed for a third six-year term
as governor of the Luxembourg central bank. “Inflation
expectations in the medium and long term remain clearly anchored
at a level in line with price stability.”  
 The euro’s 14.5 percent drop against the dollar this year
is pushing up inflation just as rising energy prices hurt
consumers’ purchasing power. Inflation in the 16-nation euro
region accelerated in May to the fastest pace in more than a
year, data showed today.  
 ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on June 10 that
inflation might further accelerate even with the  euro-area
economy  seen expanding at only a “moderate pace” this year.
The Frankfurt-based  central bank  raised its inflation forecast
for next year to about 1.6 percent from around 1.5 percent.  
 Financial Markets  
 For Luxembourg’s financial industry, the outlook is
“uncertain and macro-economic capacity in Luxembourg depends
largely from the evolution of the financial markets,” Mersch
said. “While the national market seems to have resisted
reasonably well until now, this resistance could prove
deceptive.”  
 “The level of exposure of the Luxembourg banking sector to
sovereign risks in Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal remains
high,” he said. “The absence of a resolution fund in
Luxembourg increases this vulnerability.”  
 Speaking about Luxembourg’s indexation system for salaries
in line with prices, Mersch said such a mechanism was no longer
compatible with the country’s membership of the euro area. “The
complete indexation is even more pernicious considering that
inflation in Luxembourg has systematically been above that in
the euro zone and neighboring countries over the last decade,”
he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        