-- Ecuador Plans Mine Concession Auction to Boost Output
-- Nathan Gill
-- 2010-06-16T18:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/ecuador-plans-mine-auctions-to-boost-output-strategic-minister-glas-says.html

          
          
             Ecuador, which last month began
seizing mining concessions from companies that didn’t apply for
new permits, plans to offer new licenses to help develop copper
and gold deposits, the nation’s strategic sectors minister said.  
 The government plans to auction new concessions and those
seized in May after approving a national development plan and
land reform, Minister  Jorge Glas  said yesterday in an e-mailed
response to questions. He didn’t provide further details. A
concession is a grant of land made by a government allowing a
company to explore for metals or oil on its territory.  
 Ecuador, South America’s seventh-biggest economy, is trying
to expand output and boost revenues through new contracts with
miners, including units of Canada’s  Kinross Gold Corp . and
 Iamgold Corp. , after the Andean country’s legislature approved a
new mining code in January 2009. The country has about 25.5
billion pounds of copper and 30 million ounces of gold, he said.  
 “Mining is a priority for the government,” said Glas, who
oversees the nation’s mining, oil, and telecommunications
industries. “We will work to ensure there are no delays in
mining activity” when the laws are approved, he said.  
 The government revoked almost 3,000 licenses in April 2008
while it rewrote laws to increase state control over natural
resources. Companies that didn’t reapply for mining permits by
May 10 had their concessions canceled, according to the Vice
Ministry of Mines.  
 Enami Exploration  
 Enami EP , Ecuador’s state-mining company created in
January, will also begin exploring for gold, copper and
molybdenum this year, the minister said. The government is
holding talks with state-mining companies in China, Canada and
South Korea to form joint ventures like the one it signed last
year with Chile’s state copper company Codelco, the world’s
largest producer of the metal, Glas said.  
 The government expects to increase  oil production  to about
489,000 barrels of oil per day by the end of the year, the
minister said. That compares with an average 471,800 barrels per
day in the first four months of the year, according to Central
bank data. Ecuador, the smallest member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, has an estimated capacity of
500,000 barrels per day, according to Bloomberg data.  
 President  Rafael Correa  last week repeated threats to seize
oil companies’ assets in a bid to accelerate renegotiations of
oil-field contracts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        