-- Hedge-Fund Lackeys Grow Suicidal, Soros Becomes Messiah: Books
-- James Pressley
-- 2010-06-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/hedge-fund-lackeys-grow-suicidal-soros-turns-messiah-chasing-alpha-books.html

          
          
             Hedge-fund billionaires are envied
and hated, demonized and mocked. Their outlandish behavior
hasn’t done much for their image, as Sebastian Mallaby shows in
“More Money Than God,” a history of the alpha males who play
the alpha game.  
   George Soros , for one, imagined himself a messiah. Paul Tudor Jones shouted orders down the phone like a crazed cowboy
while wearing  Bruce Willis ’s old sneakers.  Michael Steinhardt 
reduced subordinates to tears.  
 “All I want to do is kill myself,” one said.  
 “Can I watch?” Steinhardt retorted.  
 For all their excesses --  Ken Griffin ’s Versailles marriage
and garage full of Ferraris come to mind -- hedge funds
represent a promising if partial alternative to the banking
supermarkets that “either blew up or were bailed out” during
the credit crisis, argues Mallaby, a fellow at the  Council on
Foreign Relations  and former Economist magazine staffer.  
 Unlike  Citigroup Inc ., most hedge funds live or die by
their own risk management and are small enough to fail, Mallaby
says: Some 5,000 of them shut down between 2000 and 2009; none
required a taxpayer bailout.  
 “To a surprising and unrecognized degree, the future of
finance lies in the history of hedge funds,” he writes.  
 Drinking With Hemingway  
 And what a history it is. Mallaby takes us back to the
birth of the hedge-fund era in 1949, when a Fortune magazine
writer named  Alfred Winslow Jones  scraped together $100,000 to
try his hand at investing. Jones had knocked around  Europe  after
graduating from Harvard and wound up drinking on the front lines
of the Spanish civil war with Dorothy Parker and  Ernest Hemingway . Only at age 48 did he set up his “hedged fund,”
improvising an investment structure still used today.  
 Deploying “speculative means for conservative ends,” as
he put it, Jones combined leverage (borrowed money) with short
selling (the sale of borrowed assets in hopes of buying them
back later at a lower price). His techniques anticipated
academic breakthroughs such as Harry Markowitz’s “Portfolio
Selection.” By 1968, Jones had clocked a cumulative return of
just under 5,000 percent.  
 The narrative trundles along, introducing hedge-fund
legends in chapter-long profiles showing how they profited by
fingering inefficiencies in the efficient market.  
 Three-Legged Dog  
 We meet Steinhardt, who earned fat profits by helping
institutional investors trade shares in huge blocks. We also
visit Commodities Corporation, an early quantitative investing
boutique. Working out of an old farmhouse in Princeton,  New
Jersey , the PhDs set about beating markets with math, computers
and superior information. They filled a blackboard with formulas
and kept a three-legged German Shepherd named Cocoa.  
 And so it goes. Any book on the vast hedge-fund universe is
bound to have omissions. Edward Thorp, the quant godfather, is
relegated to a mere footnote about his firm. Still, the bright
and dark sides of quant land are captured in passages on James Simons’s band of code breakers at Renaissance Technologies Corp.
and John Meriwether’s ill-fated Long-Term Capital Management LP.  
 Three colorful billionaires dominate the book: George
Soros, with his backaches, reflexivity theory and self-confessed
messianic complex; value investor  Julian Robertson , a guy’s guy
who hired young jocks and took them on vertical hikes; and  Paul
Tudor Jones , who started out as an apprentice cotton trader.  
 “He approached trading as a game of psychology and high-
speed bluff, a kind of poker that combined sly subtlety with
crazed bravado,” Mallaby writes.  
 Dancing Through Minefields  
 The lives of these contrarians come together and the pace
picks up as Mallaby presses on through the East Asian currency
crises of the 1990s, the dot-com bubble and the subprime
meltdown. The account of how Griffin’s Citadel Investment Group
LLC survived the maelstrom of 2008 is particularly telling.  
 Like many hedge funds, Citadel “danced through the
minefields” only to get whipsawed when leverage dried up and
the government moved to ban short selling after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc ., Mallaby says.  
 When the crush came, Chicago-based Citadel had many
advantages, notably a treasury department that had lined up a
mix of loans to match the maturities of the assets in its
portfolio. Unlike investment banks, Citadel aimed to use
overnight funding only for assets that could be sold overnight.  
 The firm did get hammered, its two flagship funds plunging
55 percent in 2008. Yet Citadel’s humiliation “showed that
leveraged trading firms with billions under management do not
necessarily need government rescues when markets go berserk,”
he says.  
 Mallaby says hedge-fund history suggests a two-word policy
prescription: “Don’t regulate.” Yet he recommends that the
funds should be subjected to a three-tiered oversight regime
based on the level of their leverage and whether they remain
private partnerships.  
 If they go public, watch out.  
 “More Money Than God: Hedge Funds and the Making of a New
Elite” is from  Penguin Press  in the U.S. and from  Bloomsbury  in
the U.K. (482 pages, $29.95, 25 pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  
 (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "More Money Than God"  
                       
                         
                           Penguin Group via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover jacket of "More Money Than God: Hedge Funds and the Making of a New Elite." The book is the latest by Sebastian Mallaby. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover jacket of "More Money Than God: Hedge Funds and the Making of a New Elite." The book is the latest by Sebastian Mallaby. Source: Penguin Group via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Sebastian Mallaby  
                       
                         
                           Penguin Group via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Author Sebastian Mallaby.  "More Money Than God: Hedge Funds and the Making of a New Elite" is the latest book by Mallaby. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Author Sebastian Mallaby.  "More Money Than God: Hedge Funds and the Making of a New Elite" is the latest book by Mallaby. Source: Penguin Group via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "More Money Than God"  
                       
                         
                           Penguin Group via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The U.K. cover jacket "More Money Than God: Hedge Funds and the Making of a New Elite." The book is the latest by Sebastian Mallaby. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The U.K. cover jacket "More Money Than God: Hedge Funds and the Making of a New Elite." The book is the latest by Sebastian Mallaby. Source: Penguin Group via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
