-- Medvedev Seeks Microsoft, Nokia Expertise in Building Russia
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2010-06-16T05:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/medvedev-seeks-microsoft-nokia-expertise-to-build-russian-silicon-valley.html

          
          
             Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
takes his plea for foreign investment and technology directly to
Microsoft Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Nokia Oyj as he hosts
business leaders this week in his native  St. Petersburg .  
 A year and a half after Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
rejected Dell Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell ’s offer
to assist Russia’s computer industry at the World Economic Forum
in Davos, Medvedev will ask investors to help build a Russian
“Silicon Valley” to cut the country’s oil addiction.  
 “Medvedev is on a very serious marketing campaign right
now,” said  Jack Barbanel , managing director at Moscow-based
Strategic Investment Group, which focuses on technology and
healthcare in the former Soviet republics. “It’s a major change
because previously Russia wasn’t doing much.”  
 Russia’s plans to attract economic development and the
latest technology will be among the main themes of at the annual
St. Petersburg International Economic Forum,  Arkady Dvorkovich ,
Medvedev’s top economic adviser, told reporters yesterday. The
forum starts tomorrow and runs through June 19.  
 During Putin’s eight-year presidency, Russia staked its
economic development on energy, as crude oil prices jumped to a
record $145 a barrel in July 2008, from an average of $30 in
2000.  
 Russia’s dependence on natural resources helped produce the
steepest contraction among emerging markets last year, when the
economy shrank a record 7.9 percent. China’s economy expanded
8.7 percent in the same period.  
 Russian ‘Silicon Valley’  
 Medvedev, Putin’s handpicked successor who took office in
2008, has turned modernization into a mantra repeated by cabinet
ministers, homegrown billionaires and foreign investors. One of
the first owners of an Apple Inc. iPhone in Russia, the 44-year-
old president is basing Russia’s renewal on attracting money and
expertise from the U.S. and Europe.  
 The centerpiece of Medvedev’s program is Skolkovo, a Moscow
suburb where he plans to recreate California’s Silicon Valley.
The government plans to spend 110.5 billion rubles ($3.5
billion) on the project through 2015, the newspaper  Vedomosti 
reported last week, citing a draft of the 2011 federal budget.  
 “The direction of the country’s economy should be moved
toward more value-added products, including high-tech,”
billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg  told reporters June 8 in Moscow.
Medvedev asked Vekselberg, who made his fortune in oil and
aluminum, to oversee the project in March.  
 ‘Top-Down Direction’  
 Nokia CEO  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo  said June 3 that his company
wants to be a founding member of the Skolkovo project. In April
Medvedev named  Craig Barrett , a former head of Intel Corp., as
co-chairman of Skolkovo’s supervisory board.  
 “In the U.S. there is interest and willingness to test the
waters, but we need to know more before committing resources,”
said  Charles Kupchan  Eurasia Group, a New York-based political
risk consultant. “We have yet to see from Moscow an
appreciation that innovation comes from competition, not top-
down direction.”  
 A “primitive and humiliating” reliance on raw materials,
has tamed Russia’s ambitions, Medvedev said last year.  
 OAO Gazprom, Russia’s state-run natural gas monopoly, said
in 2007 that it would become the world’s biggest company, with a
market value of $1 trillion, as early as 2014. Gazprom’s market
value is now a third of the $340 billion it peaked at two years
ago, when the company trailed only Irving, Texas-based Exxon
Mobil Corp. and Beijing-based PetroChina Co.  
 The top two companies retain their places, while Apple and
Microsoft occupy third and fourth, followed by Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and China Mobile Ltd.  
 “In 1990 Russian GDP was equal to China’s. Now it’s three
to four times smaller,”  Dmitri Trenin , director of the Carnegie
Moscow Center, said last week. “It’s no big deal to see the
tail of the U.S., but it is when you see China’s tail.”  
 Corruption, Red Tape  
 When a group of U.S. venture capitalists met with Medvedev
last month, the Russian side was ready to acknowledge risks.
Weak legal protections, corruption, red tape and Russia’s
vulnerability to commodity price volatility hinder investment,
according to a presentation by  Anatoly Chubais , head of state-
run Russian Nanotechnologies Corp.  
 “Expectations are high and we hope that in St. Petersburg
we won’t just hear nice speeches but get a concrete package of
measures,”  Klaus Mangold , chief eastern Europe lobbyist for
Germany’s BDI industry group, said in an interview. “Russia
doesn’t have a problem recognizing its problems. It has a
problem implementing solutions.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at   lkim3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev who is planning to recreate California's Silicon Valley. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
