-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for Seventh Day on Outlook for Economic Growth
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-06-16T21:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/emerging-market-stocks-rise-for-seventh-day-on-optimism-for-global-growth.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks advanced for
a seventh day, the longest stretch of gains in two months, on
speculation the global economy will keep expanding.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 0.6 percent to 943.36
as of 5 p.m. in New York, bringing its seven-day gain to 6
percent. Romania’s  BET Index  jumped 2.7 percent, the most
worldwide, and government bonds rallied after Prime Minister
 Emil Boc  survived a no-confidence vote. South Korea’s won led
advances in emerging-market currencies, strengthening 1.4
percent against the dollar.  
 Asian markets climbed after U.S. data yesterday showed New
York-area manufacturing expanded for an 11th month. A report
published today showed industrial production in the world’s
largest economy expanded by the most since August, adding to
evidence the global expansion will withstand Europe’s debt
crisis.  
 “We continue to believe that Asia and emerging economies
can continue to grow, even if economies in the West experience
some sort of relapse,” said  Peter Elston , a Singapore-based
strategist at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which oversaw about
$259 billion as of March 31. “In our global equity fund, we
have a big ‘overweight’ in Asia and emerging markets.”  
 The MSCI emerging index has rallied 108 percent from its
October 2008 low, compared with a 33 percent gain in the  MSCI
World Index , after governments committed about $12 trillion to
revive the global economy.  
 Romania Bonds Rally  
 The MSCI gauge pared an  early gain  of as much as 0.9
percent after Nokia Oyj cut the second-quarter outlook for its
devices and services unit, FedEx Corp.’s profit forecast trailed
analysts’ estimates and a report showed builders broke ground on
fewer U.S. homes in May than economists estimated.  
 Romania’s benchmark eurobond due March 2015 advanced,
pushing the yield down 21 basis points, the most in three weeks,
to 6.16 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
leu fell 0.2 percent versus the euro. Legislators voted
yesterday against a no-confidence motion filed by the opposition
that attempted to block austerity measures designed to meet the
conditions of an International Monetary Fund loan.  
 Brazil’s  Bovespa stock index  advanced for a second day.
 Cosan SA Industria e Comercio , the world’s biggest sugar-cane
processor, jumped after sugar prices rose to a seven-week high
in New York.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled
oil company, gained for the first time in four days as crude
reversed an earlier loss.  
 Samsung Electronics Co. , which gets about 20 percent of its
revenue from America, gained 2.6 percent in Seoul. The won
strengthened as overseas investors  added  to their holdings of
South Korean shares for a fourth day, according to exchange
 data . Bourses in China, Taiwan and South Africa were closed for
holidays.  
 Indonesia Capital Flows  
 Production in the U.S. rose in May, led by increases in
automobiles and utilities. Output at factories, mines and
utilities increased 1.2 percent last month after a 0.7 percent
gain in April, figures from the Federal Reserve in Washington
showed today. Plant use increased to the highest level since
October 2008. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said
yesterday its Empire State Index of manufacturing in the region
rose to 19.6 in June from 19.1 the previous month.  
 Indonesia’s rupiah appreciated 0.3 percent against the
dollar. The country’s central bank will reorganize its bill
sales to encourage investors to keep their money in Southeast
Asia’s largest economy for longer, joining regional policy
makers in seeking to reduce currency volatility.  
 Investors in Bank Indonesia bills maturing in a month must
hold the securities for at least one month, whether they make
the purchase in the primary or secondary market, Senior Deputy
Governor  Darmin Nasution  told reporters in Jakarta today. The
central bank will also sell longer-term bills and charge lenders
more for tapping its funds.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        