-- Henderson's Scrapped Hong Kong Home Sales May Help Government Curb Prices
-- Wing-Gar Cheng
-- 2010-06-17T09:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/henderson-s-scrapped-hong-kong-home-sales-may-help-government-curb-prices.html

          
          
             The canceled sales of 20 Hong Kong
luxury apartments worth HK$2.67 billion ($342 million) may be
the first sign that government efforts to curb the soaring
property market are having an effect.  
 Most buyers have pulled out of the  39 Conduit Road  project
in Hong Kong’s Mid-Levels district, owner  Henderson Land
Development Co.  said in a June 15 statement. The announcement
comes after the city issued new rules restricting home buying
and regulating marketing techniques seen as deceptive.  
 “It shows investors are turning cautious in the luxury
apartment market,” said  Buggle Lau , chief property analyst at
realty company Midland Holdings Ltd. “With credit tightening in
the mainland, some of the Chinese investors are slowing their
purchases in the luxury property market.”  
 Henderson shares dropped as much as 4.4 percent in Hong
Kong before closing at HK$46.70, down 2.3 percent. The company
is the worst performer in the seven-stock Hang Seng Property
Index this year.  
 The company was cut to “neutral” from “outperform” by
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts  Cusson Leung  and  Joyce Kwock ,
who said the cancellation may have hurt investor confidence in
the Henderson’s sales execution.  
 Henderson said it would take a charge of HK$734 million
against earnings after the cancellation. The stock market was
closed for a public holiday yesterday.  
 Home Prices  
 Hong Kong raised the requirement for down payments on
luxury homes to 40 percent from 30 percent and cracked down on
misleading marketing by developers after officials expressed
concern that prices were rising too fast. Property values in
China are outpacing all other major markets even after the
government took measures such as restricting second-home
purchases and changing lending requirements.  
 Home  prices  in Hong Kong have risen 5.7 percent this year,
adding to 2009’s 29 percent advance and raising concerns the
market is overheating.  
 The failure of the Conduit Road sales, including an
apartment that would have set a world record price at HK$88,000
a square foot, marks a setback for billionaire owner  Lee Shau- kee , Hong Kong’s second-richest man. In March, he said buyers
were given more time to complete the deals.  
 ‘Out of Line’  
 “I doubt they’ll be able to sell them at those prices
again,”  Raymond Ngai , a Hong Kong-based analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said by telephone. “HK$30,000 per square foot is
still quite possible, but HK$70,000 is just too out of line with
the market.”  
 Henderson booked sales of 25 apartments in Conduit Road as
revenue for the 18 months ended December 2009, the company
reported March 30. The total price of the 20 apartments whose
sales collapsed came to HK$2.67 billion, Henderson spokeswoman
 Bonnie Ngan  said by telephone yesterday.  
 “We won’t be cutting prices,” Lee Shau-kee told reporters
on June 15. “Maybe we’ll make more money when we sell these
apartments again.”  
 Hong Kong builders often sell apartments before they are
completed, enticing customers by showing models of the homes.
The government this month introduced restrictions on new home
sales, including the use of show apartments, and demanded that
developers disclose properties sold to their own executives, a
practice that tends to exaggerate demand.  
 ‘Transparent Environment’  
 “The government is determined to create a fairer and a
more transparent environment for flat purchasers,” it said in a
release following the Henderson announcement.  
 Financial Secretary  John Tsang  in February announced higher
stamp duty on luxury properties and pledged to raise the supply
of land to reduce the risk of “a property bubble” and keep
housing affordable.  Emily Lau , a member of Hong Kong’s
Legislative Council, said the government should start an
investigation over the way Henderson conducted the sales.  
 “Henderson said the sales were made, and now they say it’s
fallen through,” she said. “Consumers have the right to know
what happened since such high prices were involved.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       39 Conduit Road  
                       
                         
                           Jerome Favre/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The 39 Conduit Road residential building in the Mid-Levels district of Hong Kong. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The 39 Conduit Road residential building in the Mid-Levels district of Hong Kong. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 1 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Paul Gordon reports on Hong Kong government efforts to cool its property market and clamp down on marketing practices it has criticized as deceptive. 
     Hong Kong’s home prices have jumped 41 percent since the end of 2008. The government pledged May 12 to keep boosting land supply as it tries to ease concerns a real estate bubble is forming. Bloomberg's Susan Li also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
