-- England's Capello Will Keep Players Guessing on Lineup: World Cup Roundup
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-16T10:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/england-s-capello-will-keep-players-guessing-on-lineup-world-cup-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  
 Capello Leaves it Late  
 England manager  Fabio Capello  will stick to his routine of
naming the team only two hours before kickoff, the  Sun  reported.
His side plays Algeria in Cape Town in two days in the next
World Cup group game.  
 Capello’s method had come under scrutiny after goalkeeper
Robert Green allowed the U.S. to tie after fumbling  Clint Dempsey ’s shot into his goal.  
 It’s believed the England goalkeepers and defense would
like at least 24 hours’ notice so they can build an
understanding, the Sun said.  
 England on Edge?  
 The England team is feeling the pressure from playing in
the World Cup and its players are “edgy,” the  Sun  quoted
Dempsey as saying.  
 “Honestly it seemed during the game that they were dealing
with a lot of pressure,” Dempsey told the paper. “I don’t know
why that is, you could just sense it a little bit. Even though
they did score early, when we came back and we equalized, they
just seemed edgy. They really did.”  
 Algeria Targets Green  
 Algeria is hoping England will keep goalkeeper Green in the
team, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  
 “We’d certainly not mind if (Green’s blunder) happened
again,” the paper quoted Algeria captain Anther Yahia as
saying. “And we will try to put pressure on England and their
goalkeeper. We are determined to make the Algerian people proud
of us.”  
 Liverpool: No Departures  
 Liverpool is refusing to discuss any possible departures of
high-profile players until the club has a new manager, the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  
 The newspaper said Fulham is resigned to losing manager  Roy Hodgson  to Liverpool as Rafael Benitez’s successor.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        