-- Erdogan Rebuffs U.S. While Protesting `Propaganda' Turkey Is Iranian Ally
-- Benjamin Harvey
-- 2010-06-17T20:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/erdogan-rebuffs-u-s-while-protesting-propaganda-turkey-is-iranian-ally.html

          
          
             Turkey under Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  may be headed for more tension with the U.S. as
it steers an increasingly independent course, enabled by a
booming economy that lessens its dependence on the West.  
 Erdogan says his embrace of nations such as Syria and Iran
that the U.S. regards as adversaries doesn’t put him in that
camp. Any suggestion that his country has broken with the West
is “malicious propaganda,” he told a regional forum last week.  
 Even so, the U.S. should anticipate increasing “friction”
as Turkey seeks to raise its global profile, said  Henri Barkey ,
a member of the State Department’s Middle East policy planning
staff from 1998 to 2000.  
 “We are going to see many more clashes between Turkey and
the U.S.,” said Barkey, now a professor at Lehigh University in
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. “They are opening embassies
everywhere, using  trade  as a major source of influence, trying
to play a role in a whole series of international organizations
and alliances.”  
 That will be a change for a country that has been a formal
ally of the U.S. since 1952, when it joined the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization, and had established diplomatic relations
with Israel three years earlier. Throughout the Cold War and its
aftermath, Turkey was a reliable supporter of the U.S. and its
allies and in recent years Israel’s strongest partner in the
Muslim world.  
 Iran Sanctions Vote  
 The most recent sign of Turkey’s drift away from that
posture came last week when it voted in the United Nations
Security Council against imposing new nuclear sanctions on Iran.
That followed Turkey’s recall of its ambassador to Israel after
what Erdogan called an Israeli “massacre” of nine Turkish
citizens on a Gaza-bound aid flotilla.  
 Before those latest moves, Turkey invited leaders of Hamas,
a group branded as terrorist by the U.S., European Union and
Israel, for talks in Ankara; proposed joint energy projects with
Iran; and brokered with Brazil a nuclear fuel deal with the
Iranians that the U.S. dismissed as a “transparent ploy” to
avoid sanctions.  
 Western Influence  
 In so doing, Turkey runs the risk of losing influence with
its Western allies, said  Cengiz Aktar , a professor of
international relations at  Galatasaray University  in Istanbul.
This is true even though the policies reflect more a
misunderstanding of the Middle East than an ideological shift,
he said.  
 “There have been so many mistakes made in the way Turkey
deals with the region,” he said in a phone interview. “It ends
up an ally of Hamas and Iran, which is not the ideal position if
you want to be a peacemaker.”  
 New York Times columnist  Thomas Friedman  agreed, writing
yesterday that while he once hailed Turkey as “the antidote to
‘Bin Ladenism’” it is now focused under Erdogan “on joining
the Hamas-Hezbollah-Iran resistance front against Israel.”  
 During his first five years as prime minister, Erdogan
presided over  gross domestic product  growth that averaged almost
7 percent per year. Turkey’s GDP increased at an annual rate of
6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009 as the country recovered
from the global crisis, lagging behind only China among the
Group of 20 nations, and the International Monetary Fund
predicts an expansion of 6.25 percent in 2010.  
 Economic Strength  
 “Turkey’s economic strength helps it do things that it
used to only talk about,” said  Gun Kut , professor of
international relations at Istanbul’s Bogazici University. “The
U.S. and others make geopolitical decisions far away and Turkey
is expected to comply even though its interests are harmed.”  
 U.S. lawmakers have reacted with disapproval to Turkey’s
closer relations with Iran. Former presidential candidate  John McCain , a Republican senator from Arizona, yesterday cited the
“obvious thumb in the eye that Turkey and Brazil orchestrated”
in negotiating a nuclear swap accord with Iran.  
 Republican Representative  Mike Pence  of Indiana said in a
statement he has told Turkey’s ambassador to the U.S.,  Namik Tan , that “there will be a cost if Turkey stays on its present
heading of growing closer to Iran and more antagonistic to the
state of Israel.”  
 Pence said Turkey’s stance on Israel could cause him to
reverse his opposition to a resolution that would describe the
deaths of Armenians under the Ottoman Empire as genocide. The
measure is opposed by Turkey.  
 Erdogan says the evolution of Turkish policy marks a return
to natural ties with Arab neighbors, strained for decades by the
legacy of Ottoman imperialism and Turkey’s close security links
with the U.S. and Israel.  
 Public Support  
 There is no lack of public support at home for his move
away from Israel. A poll by Ankara-based Metropoll found that 61
percent of those interviewed thought his reaction to the
flotilla raid wasn’t strong enough. The  June 3 poll  questioned
1,000 people and had an error margin of 3 percent.  
 Erdogan’s denial of a break with the West came at a
regional business forum in Istanbul on June 10, the day after
the UN Iran vote, at which he was given a standing ovation by
Arab leaders.  
 Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu ,  writing in Foreign Policy
magazine  last month, said NATO and the EU are still the “main
fixtures” of Turkish diplomacy, and are “perfectly
compatible” with growing involvement in the Middle East.  
 Egemen Bagis , the minister for EU affairs, said in a June
12 interview that Turkey regularly consults U.S. leaders on Iran
and other issues, even if the U.S. may feel “frustrated” with
Turkish diplomacy on Iran.  
 Gas Contracts  
 Iran has contracted to send Turkey 10 billion cubic meters
of natural gas a year, almost one-third of last year’s total
consumption, making it the second-biggest supplier after Russia.
Syria, along with Iraq and Iran, are viewed as potential markets
by regionally ambitious Turkish companies.  
 Turkish companies expanding outside Europe include  Gubre
Fabrikalari TAS , an Istanbul-based maker of fertilizer, which
bought an Iranian plant for about $600 million in 2008. Its
 shares  have surged more than tenfold in the past four years.
 Turkiye Is Bankasi AS , the biggest non-state bank, is planning
branches in Iraq, and  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS , the No. 1
mobile phone company, bid for a license in Libya and said it
sees growth opportunities in Syria. Both are based in Istanbul.  
 Divergence from the U.S. on Iran is “not an anti-American
move, it’s a pro-Turkey move that happens to benefit Iran,”
said  Katinka Barysch , an analyst at the Center for European
Reform in London.  
 Turkish Access  
 Erdogan’s move away from lockstep with the West increases
his credibility in the region, which means “we can use Turkey’s
access to countries like Syria and perhaps even to Hamas for
mediation,” Barysch said.  
 The change in Turkey’s political orientation is mirrored in
its  trade profile . Shipments to the 56 countries in the
Organization of the Islamic Conference, mostly in the Middle
East, have more than doubled as a share of total  exports  since
Erdogan’s party was elected, to 28 percent so far this year from
13 percent in 2002.  
 As Turkey’s ties with Iran improved in recent years, its
security alliance with Israel deteriorated. Erdogan last year
walked out on a panel discussion with Israeli President  Shimon Peres  after condemning the 2008 offensive in Gaza. And after
last month’s flotilla raid, in addition to recalling its
ambassador, Turkey suspended joint military exercises and
Erdogan said he doesn’t consider Hamas a terrorist group.  
 Ties Under Review  
 Turkey is reviewing the “contractual aspects” of its
defense relationship with Israel,  Burak Ozugergin , a spokesman
for the Foreign Ministry, said in a phone interview today. He
also said that Turkey is demanding from Israel a formal apology,
financial compensation, consent to an international inquiry into
the incident, and the immediate return of the seized ships.  
 An Israeli foreign ministry official, speaking on condition
of anonymity, said Turkish sanctions would harm the interests of
both countries, and that cutting ties may leave Turkey
marginalized in the Middle East.  
 The political, economic and security ties that had
developed between Turkey and Israel were “one of the most
promising things going on in the Middle East in the past
decade,” said  Philip K. Gordon , U.S. assistant secretary for
European and Asian affairs at the State Department, in comments
e-mailed by the U.S. Embassy in Ankara. “That has gradually
deteriorated over the past couple of years, which is
unfortunate.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey's prime minister, in Istanbul. Erdogan may be headed for more tension with the U.S. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
