-- Ernst & Young Probed by U.K. Regulator Over Lehman Audit, Repo 105 Trades
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-06-16T13:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/ernst-young-s-lehman-accounting-in-u-k-is-probed-by-british-regulator.html

          
          
             Ernst & Young LLP, the auditor for
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , is under investigation by
Britain’s accounting regulator over the way it dealt with the
investment bank’s off-balance-sheet transactions in the U.K.  
 The probe will cover Ernst & Young’s preparation and audits
of Lehman Brothers International Europe for the year ended Nov.
30, 2007, the  Financial Reporting Council  in London said in a
 statement  on its website today. An independent tribunal will
hear the complaint, it said.  
 “If the tribunal upholds a complaint, there is a wide
range of sanctions which it can impose, including an unlimited
fine” and “withdrawal of practicing certificates or
licenses,” the regulator said in the statement.  
 The watchdog first said in March that it was investigating
Ernst & Young’s auditing of transactions known as Repo 105s. The
deals helped Lehman downplay its leverage in late 2007 and 2008,
according to a 2,200-page report on the bank’s collapse. The
study, filed March 11 by bankruptcy examiner  Anton Valukas  in
New York, said Ernst & Young could be accused of “professional
malpractice” for its role.  
 “Ernst & Young’s audit opinion stated that Lehman’s
financial statements for that year were fairly presented in
accordance with the relevant accounting standards and we remain
of that view,” the firm’s London office said today in an e-
mail.  
 Repo Transactions  
 The Repo transactions increased just before the end of
financial reporting periods, temporarily moving $49 billion to
$50 billion of assets off the  balance sheet  in the first and
second quarters of 2008, Valukas’s report said.  
 Lehman executives expressed concern that the firm was alone
in using such methods, Valukas said. The report said Ernst &
Young had inadequately investigated claims made by Matthew Lee,
then a senior vice president at Lehman, that the investment
bank’s accounting may have violated its own ethics code.  
 Ernst & Young has said that Valukas “made no findings in
his report that Lehman’s assets or liabilities were improperly
valued or accounted for incorrectly” in Lehman’s November 2007
statements.  
 Lehman filed the  biggest bankruptcy  in U.S. history in
September 2008 after mounting losses on mortgage-backed
securities spooked investors and creditors. The Wall Street
investment bank’s failure helped trigger a freeze of global
credit markets, forcing the U.S. government to provide $700
billion in bailout funds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        