-- Murdoch's Times Offers Freebies in Pursuit of Paying Readers
-- Matthew Campbell
-- 2010-06-17T07:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/less-may-be-more-for-murdoch-new-york-times-as-newspapers-put-up-paywalls.html

          
          
             The Times, the London newspaper
owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. , is offering free tickets
to Toy Story 3 or the chance of a weekend at the Grosvenor Hotel 
in Dorset to persuade readers to pay for news online.  
 The newspaper this week began closing down its free website
and will charge for access, mirroring a long-standing practice
at the Financial Times and the Wall Street Journal. The  New York
Times Co.  plans to do the same next year. Both concede the step
will mean fewer readers. A drop in advertising revenue is
forcing them to seek other, more steady, sources of income.  
 “We don’t expect or require that all the people who do now
will still look at it,” said  Daniel Finkelstein , executive
editor of the Times in London whose online fee will be 2 pounds
($2.89) a week. “What’s left is still a vast market.”  
 Among the first general newspapers seeking to charge for
online content, the Times and the New York daily are betting
that a smaller number of committed, paying online readers may
allow them to extract subscription fees and bigger advertising
sales. Print ads in the U.S. last year slid 29 percent to about
$24.8 billion, the lowest since 1984. With online ad sales
holding up better, newspapers want to capture a bigger piece
of that pie, even as they lose some readers.  
 “Obviously a huge number of casual readers will get their
news elsewhere,” said  Paul Richards , an analyst at Numis
Securities Ltd. in London. “What you’ll have left is a core of
readers that you can target more effectively with advertising
and services. If you know who your readers are it’s easier to
monetize them.”  
 Hard to Do  
 While the  Financial Times  has had some success with the
strategy, the ability of general interest dailies to carry it
off is less obvious, industry experts say. Luring paying online
readers may be harder with news that is more easily available
for free on the Web.  
 “They’re not going to convince people to pay for news,
because people weren’t paying for news,” said Nelson Phillips,
professor of organization and management at Imperial College in
London. “The big brands may be able to do it. But if you’re a
mid-level paper, what do you have that’s not available on the
Web for free?”  
 Murdoch’s News Corp., which this week offered to buy the
rest of U.K. pay-TV operator British Sky Broadcasting Plc for
7.8 billion pounds ($11.5 billion), is pushing a business model
with clients paying for content as a driver of  revenue growth .
He’s using that same strategy at the Times and the Sunday Times.
The Times is now offering paying subscribers access to free
events and discounted products through its ‘Times+’ service in
an effort to build customer loyalty.  
 Volume Battle  
 News Corp. shares dropped 1.5 percent to $14.16 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading yesterday. The stock has risen 3.4 percent
since the start of the year.  
 In May, the Times said it would cut its editorial budget by
10 percent, leading to the departure of as many as 50 staff.
Editor  James Harding  said the newspaper’s “losses are
unsustainable.”  
 Revenue at  Times Co. ’s News Media Group, owner of the New
York Times, tumbled 23 percent between 2007 and 2009 to $2.32
billion. The company as a whole reported a $20 million 2009
profit, after a $58 million loss in 2008.  
 Charging for online content is among efforts at the two
dailies to boost sales.  
 “If you want to get into a battle on volume, Facebook has
already won,” said  Rob Grimshaw , managing director of  Pearson
Plc’s  FT.com, alluding to the world’s largest social-networking
site. “You can gain a lot more on yield,” and by offering
advertisers information on paying visitors, he said.  
 Striking a Balance  
 The Financial Times, which has a daily circulation of about
390,000, began its current system for access to its FT.com site
in 2007. The site has about 126,000 subscribers, each shelling
out at least 3.29 pounds a week in the U.K., and two million
more registered users, who provide basic personal information in
exchange for 10 free stories a month.  
 While the site usually charges about 35 to 40 pounds in
fees from advertisers for every 1,000 views of a story, some
parts of FT.com command “much higher” rates, according to
Grimshaw. That compares with as little as one pound for less
focused sites, he said.  
 The FT’s website has succeeded in striking a balance
between mass-market appeal and winning money from subscribers,
said  Alexander Wisch , a media analyst at Standard & Poor’s
Equity Research in London. “They are able to draw ads and get
the eyeballs, and at the same time to monetize subscriptions.”
Specialized publications “do draw audiences, and they draw
audiences that pay.”  
 ‘Prix-Fixe Menus’  
 The New York Times will see “some effect” on readership
after it implements a paywall next year, Times Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Janet Robinson  said in an interview. “We feel
that we will protect as much of the audience as possible” with
a “metering” approach, that allows free access to a limited
number of stories, she added.  
 Existing paywalls usually follow one of three strategies: a
flat-rate subscription for all content, a mix of paid and free
articles determined by editors, or a metering system that allows
readers a capped number of free stories of their choice.  
 Flat-rate subscription models have the advantage of
“decoupling” the unpleasant experience of payment from that of
reading articles, according to Ziv Carmon, who researches
consumer behavior at INSEAD in Singapore.  
 Newspapers should “look at the prix-fixe menus in French
restaurants,” he said. “If you’re eating a shrimp appetizer,
you don’t think that every bite equals two bucks.”  
 Makes No Sense  
 The Financial Times in 2007 switched from a mix of free and
paid content to its current metered model.  
 “One person’s goldmine of an article was behind the wall,
but it could be irrelevant to another person,” Grimshaw said.  
 Still, any paywall strategy risks cutting newspapers off
from an ecosystem of blogs and social media sites that was
created partly by the availability of free content.  
 The New York Times in 2007 abandoned its two-year
TimesSelect experiment, which charged for access to some
columnists and articles.  
 Andrew Sullivan , a commentator at The Atlantic magazine
whose site is among the top 15 blogs on the Web, dubbed the
service “TimesDelete,” because of the difficulty of linking
readers to stories behind the paywall.  
 Tim Kevan, a legal blogger, on May 28  left  the London-based
Times, arguing that he didn’t want his work to become “the
preserve of a limited few.”  
 The Times’s Finkelstein argues that the newspaper needs to
charge to invest in content output, even at the risk of smaller
readership.  
 “It doesn’t make sense for any length of time to give away
the product you’re selling,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Murdoch in pursuit of paywall readers  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A page from The Times newspaper's website is displayed on a computer monitor in London. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A page from The Times newspaper's website is displayed on a computer monitor in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) --  Sarah O'Connor of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about the prospects of charging for television broadcast content online. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- David Joyce, an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co., talks about Rupert Murdoch's efforts to charge for online content and News Corp.'s offer to take full control of British Sky Broadcasting Plc.
     Joyce talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Murdoch offers freebies in pursuit of paywall readers  
                       
                         
                           Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         News Corp. CEO Rupert Murdoch. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     News Corp. CEO Rupert Murdoch. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The newspaper this week began closing down its free website and will charge for access. Source: Times, London, via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
