-- Estonia Plans to Cut Reserve Requirements in Preparation for Adopting Euro
-- Ott Ummelas
-- 2010-06-16T12:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/estonia-plans-to-cut-reserve-requirements-in-preparation-for-adopting-euro.html

          
          
             Estonia’s central bank will cut
reserve requirements for lenders as European Union finance
ministers look set next month to give the final approval for the
Baltic country’s euro bid.  
 Gross external debt  may fall to about 100 percent of gross
domestic product by the start of next year as local banks, more
than 90 percent-owned by Nordic lenders, will use the freed-up
reserves to pay back debts to their parents, central bank
Governor  Andres Lipstok  and the head of financial stability
department Jaak Tors said at a news conference in Tallinn today.  
 Estonia’s gross external debt as a ratio of GDP is one of
the highest in emerging Europe, along with neighboring Latvia
and Lithuania, following a debt-financed property boom that went
bust in 2008, pushing the region into the deepest recession in
the European Union. High foreign debt is likely to weigh on
domestic demand performance over the medium term and will limit
Estonia’s fiscal flexibility, Standard & Poor’s analyst  Franklin Gill  said in an e-mail last month.  
 “Joining the euro area will greatly reduce the risks
posed by Estonia’s high external debt, as well as the high share
of domestic lending in non-krooni currencies,” Douglas Renwick,
an Associate Director of EMEA Sovereigns at Fitch Ratings, said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  
 External debt was 125 percent of GDP at the end of first
quarter, according to central bank data, compared with an
average 68.6 percent for central and eastern Europe that is
forecast to decline to 64.2 percent, according to International
Monetary Fund.  
 No Effect  
 Still, Estonia’s public debt was the lowest in the European
Union at 7.2 percent last year.  
 “Considering the present strength of the banking groups,
the reduction in reserve requirements should not affect the
banks’ risk assessments and lending terms,” the central bank
said.  
 The reserve requirement will be cut to 11 percent from 15
percent as of Sept. 1 and reduced further to 7 percent as of
Nov. 1, the central bank said in a statement. Following euro
adoption, scheduled for Jan. 1, the requirement will decline to
2 percent for liabilities maturing in less than two years.  
 EU finance ministers are due to give formal approval to
Estonia’s adoption of the euro on July 13 after the nation on
May 12 won European Commission approval to become the euro
area’s 17th member. Standard & Poor’s on June 10 raised its
credit rating one level to A, the sixth-highest investment
grade.  
 Capital Adequacy  
 The average capital-adequacy ratio of Estonian lenders,
more than 90 percent owned by Nordic parents, was 22.3 percent
at the end of April, according to the central bank’s website.
That compares with a local requirement of at least 10 percent
and the European Union’s rule of more than 8 percent. The ratio
measures the reserves that banks keep to protect depositors
against potential losses as a percentage of total assets.  
 “Risks to Estonia’s financial system have declined during
the spring, while risks stemming from the external environment
have increased at the same time,” the bank said. The banking
industry will return to profit this year due to “much lower”
provisions for bad loans, it added.  
 The proportion of loans overdue for more than 60 days will
remain at 6 percent this year and start declining in coming
years, the bank said. Loan books will probably shrink 2.4
percent this year, it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        