-- EU Says Countries Must Reduce Budget Deficits, Some May Need `Cold Shower'
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-06-16T16:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/eu-says-countries-must-reduce-budget-deficits-some-may-need-cold-shower-.html

          
          
             The European Commission called on
governments to take “ambitious” steps to push down budget
deficits and said some debt-burdened countries may have to use
“cold shower” consolidation plans.  
 “Events in spring 2010 have exposed the urgency of
addressing the fiscal challenge” in the euro area as “the high
and rising public debts raised concerns on governments’
solvency,” the Brussels-based commission, the European Union
executive, said in a report published today. “While gradual
consolidations tend to have higher success rates than “cold
shower” ones, the latter might be “a better approach” for
high-debt countries, it said.  
 European policy makers agreed in May on an unprecedented
loan package after concern about a Greek fiscal crisis spreading
across the 16-nation region pushed up borrowing costs and
sparked a rout in global equity markets. While governments from
Italy to Spain have stepped up deficit-cutting efforts, the euro
has continued to decline against the dollar in the past month.  
 The euro may extend its decline on the debt crisis to a
level last reached in 2003, according to  Sophia Drossos , co-head
of global currency strategy at Morgan Stanley. The 16-nation
currency will fall as much as 9 percent to $1.12 as the market
forces the euro-area nations to rein in spending, Drossos said
today in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  
 ‘Tough Choices’  
 “There are structural problems in Europe that aren’t going
away any time soon,” Drossos said. “The market is forcing the
Europeans to take these tough choices on structural issues.”  
 The euro region’s average deficit may widen to 6.6 percent
of  gross domestic product  this year, according to the
commission. That’s more than double the EU’s 3 percent limit.
Last year, Ireland, Greece and Spain all posted budget
shortfalls of more than 10 percent of GDP.  
 While deficits may start shrinking starting next year,
average state debt may reach 88.5 percent of GDP, according to
the commission forecasts.  
 “The high projected increases and levels of debt need to
be addressed urgently to minimize their negative effects on
economic growth,” the commission said. “Despite the fact that
plans for consolidation have been set out,” they “are not
sufficient to stem or reverse the increases in debt.”  
 The commission also urged governments to withdraw stimulus
measures introduced in 2009 to fight an economic crisis, saying
they would add an “intolerable burden” if left in place once
the economy resumes growth.  
 ‘More Difficult’  
 “Consolidations starting under unfavorable economic
conditions are probably more likely to be successful, even
though the conditions in which they are undertaken are more
difficult,” it said. “Expenditure-based consolidations have
better track records of success than ones based on tax
increases.” Still, “there is no one-size-fits-all solution.”  
 While countries breaching the debt and deficit limits can
be subject to economic sanctions, none has been fined so far. EU
members overhauled the fiscal rules in 2005, easing penalties
for deficit overruns.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        