-- European Inflation Accelerates Amid Surging Energy Costs, Weakening Euro
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-06-16T09:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/european-inflation-accelerates-amid-surging-energy-costs-weakening-euro.html

          
          
             European inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace in more than a year in May as surging energy
costs and a weaker euro made imported goods more expensive
across the 16-nation region.  
 Euro-area  consumer prices  rose 1.6 percent in May from a
year earlier after increasing 1.5 percent in April, the European
Union statistics office in Luxembourg said today. That’s the
fastest inflation since December 2008 and in line with an
estimate published on May 31.  Labor-cost  growth accelerated to
2.1 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier from 1.7
percent in the fourth quarter, a separate report showed today.  
 The euro’s 14.5 percent drop against the dollar this year
is pushing up inflation just as rising energy prices hurt
consumers’ purchasing power. European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said on June 10 that inflation might further
accelerate even with the  euro region ’s economy seen expanding at
only a “moderate pace” this year.  
 “It’s mainly energy prices driving inflation at this
stage,” said  Klaus Schruefer , an economist at SEB AG in
Frankfurt. “We could see an acceleration toward 1.7 percent in
July, but there are hardly any price pressures overall.”  
 The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
data, trading at $1.2294 at 10:02 a.m. in London, down 0.2
percent on the day.  
 Alcohol, Tobacco  
 Consumer prices  increased 0.1 percent from April, when they
rose 0.5 percent, today’s report showed. Prices for alcohol and
tobacco increased 4.4 percent from a year earlier, while energy
costs rose 9.2 percent, today’s release showed. Prices for
clothing, household equipment and hotels also rose.  
 The region’s  core inflation rate , which excludes volatile
energy and food costs, held at 0.8 percent in May.  
 The ECB  on June 10 raised its inflation forecast for next
year to about 1.6 percent from around 1.5 percent. In 2010,
consumer prices may rise around 1.5 percent on average, the
Frankfurt-based central bank forecast. The euro-area economy may
expand around 1 percent this year, it said.  
 With rising  unemployment  eroding consumers’ willingness to
spend and governments cutting budget deficits, a recovery is
already showing signs of weakening. In Germany, Europe’s largest
economy,  investor confidence  fell more than economists forecast
in June, data showed this week. European  economic confidence 
also declined in May.  
 The euro’s drop has helped support economic expansion by
making exports more competitive abroad just as the global
recovery gathers strength.  Lanxess AG , Germany’s largest
publicly traded specialty-chemicals company, on May 28
reiterated its outlook for a “significant” earnings gain this
year on reviving demand in Latin America and Asia.  
 “We are certain that the crisis has not been overcome,”
Lanxess Chief Executive Officer  Axel Heitmann  said on that day.
“But we are making good progress.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Dublin at 
 smeier@bloombert.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet said that inflation might further accelerate even with the euro region's economy expanding at a 'moderate pace' this year. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
