-- Europe's 40-Year Drought at U.S. Open Golf Is `Coincidence,' Players Say
-- Rob Gloster
-- 2010-06-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/europe-s-40-year-drought-at-u-s-open-golf-is-coincidence-players-say.html

          
          
             The European drought at golf’s U.S.
Open has reached 40 years, a streak attributed to nothing more
than “coincidence” by England’s  Lee Westwood  and Ireland’s
 Padraig Harrington .  
 With seven of the top 14 players in the  current world
rankings , Europeans hope the seaside course at Pebble Beach,
California, will be the site of their first U.S. Open victory
since England’s  Tony Jacklin  won at  Hazeltine National Golf Club 
in Chaska, Minnesota, in 1970.  
 “It’s just pure coincidence at this stage,” the 14th-
ranked Harrington said yesterday in a news conference. “There’s
a lot of good European players. One of them is going to win a
U.S. Open pretty soon.”  
 Westwood, 37, ranked third in the world, is the top
European player entering the Open that begins tomorrow. He
finished third at the 2008 U.S. Open at  Torrey Pines  near San
Diego, missing a 15-foot birdie putt on the 72nd hole that would
have put him in a playoff with  Rocco Mediate  and eventual winner
 Tiger Woods .  
 Westwood comes into the tournament having won last
weekend’s St. Jude Classic in Memphis, becoming the first
European champion at the 52-year-old tournament. It was his
first win on the U.S. PGA Tour since 1998.  
 Tied for Fifth  
 Harrington and Westwood tied for fifth the last time the
U.S. Open was held at Pebble Beach, in 2000, when Woods won by
15 shots. Westwood, who said the venue along the Pacific Ocean
remains “probably my favorite golf course in the world,” came
to Pebble Beach before Memphis to get in two days of practice by
himself.  
 “It’s an amazing stretch of land and a dramatic coast
line,” he said. “I don’t think it’s a golf course you can ever
tire of playing. It’s just such a spectacular place to play. If
you have a bad day you can have a look around and it cheers you
up a bit.”  
 Westwood will be playing in his 50th major championship
this week and has yet to win one. Harrington, 38, a three-time
major winner, had arthroscopic surgery on his right knee three
weeks ago and said it would not affect his golf this weekend.  
 Harrington also called the four-decade drought by Europeans
at the U.S. Open a coincidence.  
 “If Europeans had won the last 39 U.S. Opens, would it be
that Europeans are going to win this week? No,” he said. “It’s
the best player going out this week, regardless of where he’s
from.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        