-- Congress May Act if China Fails to Raise the Value of Currency, Levin Says
-- Mark Drajem
-- 2010-06-16T15:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/levin-says-congress-will-act-if-china-doesn-t-raise-value-of-its-currency.html

          
          
             The U.S. Congress will act if China
fails to raise the value of its currency, the yuan, House Ways
and Means Committee Chairman  Sander Levin  said.  
 “Seven years of patience from the United States and the
international community have run out,” Levin, a Michigan
Democrat, said today at a hearing in Washington. After the Group
of 20 world leaders meets this month, “if China does not act
and the administration does not respond promptly thereafter, the
Congress will act.”  
 Lawmakers such as New York Democrat Senator  Charles Schumer 
are prodding President  Barack Obama  to take a tougher line on
China, which has held the value of the yuan at about 6.83 to the
dollar since July 2008. The weak yuan gives Chinese exporters an
unfair advantage over their U.S. competitors, according to
lawmakers including Schumer.  
 China’s currency policy is a “prime example of Chinese
mercantilism,” Levin said.  
 Republicans also criticized China, and said the two parties
could work together on this area.  
 “There is a clear and unified message this Congress would
like to send to China and it is this: China is not acting in
good faith and is aggressively engaged in a series of troubling
and downright protectionist policies,” Michigan Representative
 Dave Camp , the top Republican on the panel, said today. China’s
actions could “spur a breakdown in our relationship.”  
 Business representatives and lawyers said they were focused
on China’s specific barriers to U.S. exports such as its
indigenous innovation policy, not the exchange rate.  
 China is feeling a new triumphalism following the economic
meltdown in the U.S., which makes it harder for U.S. officials
to address concerns of American companies, said  Charles Freeman ,
a fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies
and former U.S. trade official.  
 “China learned the wrong lessons from the crisis,”
Freeman said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        