-- Mexico's Calderon Says Must Win Drugs War for `Our Future' as Deaths Mount
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-06-16T05:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/mexico-s-calderon-says-must-win-drugs-war-for-our-future-as-deaths-mount.html

          
          
             Mexican President  Felipe Calderon 
defended his drug war strategy and pledged to rout narcotics
gangs and organized crime as violence reached one of the highest
levels in his four-year-old administration.  
 “It’s a fight that’s worth waging, because our future is
at risk,” Calderon said yesterday in a “Message to the
Nation” broadcast on television stations. “It’s a fight that
together the Mexicans are going to win.”  
 Calderon spoke after soldiers earlier in the day battled
armed gangs in the southwestern part of Mexico, killing as many
as 15 people near the tourist city of Taxco, the Guerrero state
attorney general said.  
 Violence tied to the illegal drug trade led on June 11 to
the highest one-day death toll under the Calderon administration,
leaving 85 people dead, according to Mexico City newspaper El
Universal, which uses its own tally. More than 22,000 people
have been killed in drug-related violence since Calderon took
office in 2006.  
 On June 14, Mexican gunmen killed 10 police officers in
southwestern Michoacan state and 28 prisoners were killed in a
jail in Sinaloa state.  
 Calderon said the nation will fight organized crime by
strengthening institutions, increasing police training,
developing more efficient laws and strengthening the “social
fabric” of the country with education.  
 Mexican Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  announced
restrictions yesterday on cash deposits made in U.S. dollars. He
said the measures will hurt drug traffickers by “closing the
route for dollars coming from illicit sources.”  
 Mexicans with accounts at a given bank will be able to
deposit as much as $4,000 in cash per month at that bank, and
Mexicans without accounts will be able to deposit up to $300 a
day and $1,500 a month, Cordero said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        