-- Extended Stay Creditors, Starwood Ask to File Rival Restructuring Plan
-- David McLaughlin
-- 2010-06-16T20:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/extended-stay-s-creditors-starwood-seek-to-file-rival-restructuring-plan.html

          
          
             Extended Stay Inc. ’s creditors and
Starwood Capital Group moved to block a proposed sale of the
hotel chain, asking for bankruptcy court permission to propose a
rival restructuring plan for the company.  
 The new plan would reinstate Extended Stay’s mortgage debt,
give junior creditors new stock and “offer substantially
greater distributions to creditors,” the committee representing
unsecured creditors said today in papers in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in New York.  
 Starwood said this week that it opposed the planned
$3.9 billion sale of Extended Stay to Centerbridge Partners LP,
Paulson & Co. and  Blackstone Group LP . Starwood, which lost a
May auction for Extended Stay, said it intended to continue
competing for the hotel chain.  
 Extended Stay, based in Spartanburg, South Carolina, is
scheduled to ask U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James Peck  tomorrow for
permission to proceed with the sale to the Centerbridge group.  
 The hotel chain accused Starwood of trying to “terrorize”
the sale process, according to a court filing today. Lawyers for
the company and the Centerbridge group said in separate filings
that Starwood could have continued bidding at the auction after
making its final bid of $3.88 billion and chose to stop.  
 Extended Stay and the Centerbridge group pointed out that
Starwood Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Barry Sternlicht 
walked away from the bidding by saying, “We are done, thank you
very much, congratulations. Good luck to you,” according to a
transcript of the auction.  
 ‘Desperate Attempt’  
 “The objection should be viewed for what it is -- a
desperate, last-ditch attempt by the losing bidder to drive a
wedge” in the bankruptcy case “in order to reopen the bidding
and give itself a second bite at the apple. The auction is
closed. The results are final,” lawyers for the Centerbridge
group said today.  
 Starwood complained the auction was flawed because of a
requirement that bidders make all-cash offers, a rule that
violated the rules and chilled bidding, according to Starwood.
Extended Stay and the Centerbridge group denied such a
requirement existed.  
 Starwood and the unsecured creditors’ committee need Peck’s
permission to propose their investment plan formally to all
creditors. Until then, Extended Stay has the exclusive right to
develop a bankruptcy-exit plan. The committee said in its filing
that creditors should have the chance to vote on the two plans.  
 Mortgage Debt  
 The Starwood plan would reinstate Extended Stay’s
$4.1 billion mortgage debt, according to court documents. Under
the Centerbridge sale, the debt would be largely paid down.  
 Starwood would make a minimum cash equity investment of
$560 million for 75 percent of Extended Stay’s equity. It also
would backstop a $140 million rights offering for an additional
20 percent of the equity, according to court papers.  
 The rights offering would be made available to holders of
Extended Stay’s $3.3 billion in mezzanine debt. Those creditors,
who would see no recovery from the Centerbridge sale, also would
get the remaining 5 percent of the equity.  
 The case is In re Extended Stay Inc., 09-13764, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        