-- Fannie, Freddie Stock To Be Delisted From NYSE
-- Lorraine Woellert
-- 2010-06-16T18:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/fannie-freddie-stock-to-be-delisted-from-nyse.html

          
          
             Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the
mortgage firms 80 percent owned by U.S. taxpayers, plunged after
regulators told them to delist their common and preferred shares
from the New York Stock Exchange.  
 The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which has overseen the
two companies since 2008, ordered the moves as a preemptive step
after the New York Stock Exchange told Washington-based Fannie
Mae that its shares no longer met listing standards, FHFA Acting
Director  Edward DeMarco  said today.  
 “A voluntary delisting at this time simply makes sense and
fits with the goal of a conservatorship to preserve and conserve
assets,” DeMarco said in the statement. The delistings are
expected to be effective in early July, the companies said.  
 Fannie Mae and McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac, which
own or guarantee more than half of the $11 trillion U.S.
mortgage market, have been at risk of delisting since September
2008, when they were seized by regulators at the height of the
credit crisis.  Shareholders  include Vanguard Group, Blackrock
Inc., Kinetics Asset Management and California’s state pension
fund. Some funds are precluded from owning stocks that aren’t
listed on an exchange.  
 Shares of Fannie Mae fell 40 percent to 56 cents at 1:54
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Freddie Mac
fell 40 percent to 73 cents.  
 The companies, which are expected to trade on the Over-the-
Counter Bulletin Board, will file reports with the Securities
and Exchange Commission after the delisting, DeMarco said.  
 Treasury Aid  
 The U.S. Treasury has injected $145 billion into the firms
since 2008 to keep them solvent amid rising foreclosures and
defaults of mortgages on their books. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has promised to support the companies while Congress
weighs an overhaul of the nation’s mortgage-finance system.
Taxpayer aid could climb to hundreds of billions of dollars.  
 “The delisting is really symbolic,” said  David Kovacs ,
head of quantitative strategies at Berwyn, Pennsylvania-based
Turner Investment Partners, which manages $19 billion. “The
equity value should’ve been wiped out a couple of years ago,”
Kovacs said.  
 Credit-rater Standard & Poor’s maintained its 12-month
target price of $1.50 on shares in the two companies.  
 “The U.S. government will continue to provide financial
support” to the firms, S&P analyst  Rafay Khalid  said.  
 NYSE Minimum  
 Since the government took control of the companies, their
shares have hovered near the NYSE minimum 30-day rolling average
closing price requirement of $1. The NYSE notified Fannie Mae
yesterday that the firm no longer met listing standards because
its closing price fell below $1 for the past 30 days.  
 The decision to delist “does not constitute any reflection
on either enterprise’s current performance or future direction,
nor does delisting imply any other findings or determination on
the part of FHFA as regulator or conservator,” DeMarco said.  
 Taking steps to boost share prices, for example through a
reverse split, would not have guaranteed that the companies
would be able to maintain the minimum price level, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are directed to delist their common and preferred stock from the New York Stock Exchange and any other national securities exchange. Photographer: Ken Cedeno/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- The Federal Housing Finance Agency has directed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to delist their common and preferred stock from the New York Stock Exchange and any other national securities exchange. Bloomberg's Jon Erlichman reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
