-- Fed Sells $1.15 Billion of Term Deposits in Test of Credit-Tightening Tool
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-06-16T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/fed-sells-1-15-billion-of-term-deposits-in-test-of-credit-tightening-tool.html

          
          
             The Federal Reserve’s first auction
of term deposits showed how the central bank can use credit-
tightening tools to eventually drain a near-record amount of
cash from the banking system.  
 The Fed offered $1 billion for 14 days through the Term
Deposit Facility and received bids worth $6.14 billion, the
central bank said in a statement yesterday. The successful banks
will deposit money with the Fed on June 17 and receive interest
of 0.27 percent. Banks currently receive 0.25 percent in
interest on excess reserves.  
 Fed policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  are
preparing for the day when they will have to start siphoning off
more than $1 trillion in  excess reserves  from the banking system
to prevent an outbreak of inflation. The term deposit facility
and reverse repurchase agreements are among the programs they
have said they will deploy to raise their  target  interest rate
for overnight lending among banks.  
 “It’s another tool when the time comes to actually drain
liquidity, but we’re not at that juncture yet,” said  George Goncalves , the New York-based head of interest-rate strategy at
Nomura Holdings Inc., one of the 18 primary dealers that trade
directly with the Fed. “This is going to be a basket approach,
it’s not going to be one solution fits all.”  
 Excess Reserves  
 The term-deposit tests “are a matter of prudent planning
and have no implications for the near-term conduct of monetary
policy,” the Fed said last month.  
 The Fed has also tested the reverse repurchase agreements
it also intends to use to reduce excess liquidity that was
pumped into the financial system to fight the credit crisis and
the ensuing recession. In a reverse repo, the Fed lends
securities for a set period. At maturity, the securities are
returned to the Fed, and the cash to the primary dealers. The
Fed conducted five trials of this system in December.  
 “The use of reverse repos and the deposit facility would
together allow the Federal Reserve to drain hundreds of billions
of dollars of reserves from the banking system quite quickly,
should it choose to do so,” Bernanke told Congress in March.  
 The Term Deposit Facility test attracted 109 participants.
In addition to $1 billion awarded through competitive bidding,
the Fed said it received $152 million in non-competitive bids.  
 ‘Enough Interest’  
 The auction “certainly drew enough interest from
bidders,” said  Thomas Simons , a money-market economist at
primary dealer Jefferies & Co. in New York. “I don’t see
anything that indicates that there were any problems.”  
 The small size of the test makes it difficult to evaluate
how auctions for a hundredfold more in deposits would work,
Simons said. “I don’t know if an auction this small can give
you a great handle on how things will go when the real pace of
operations gets going.”  
 Tying up funds in the program should be attractive to banks
that have been leaving their excess reserves idle rather than
lending them to borrowers, Simons said.  
 “I don’t really think that they’re concerned about not
having the money available to make loans -- they’re not making
too many loans right now,” he said.  
 In addition to using the Term Deposit Facility and reverse
repos, Bernanke and his colleagues plans to eventually sell the
Fed’s holdings of mortgage-backed securities to cut the central
bank’s balance sheet from its current level of $2.33 trillion to
less than $1 trillion, its size before the financial crisis.  
 Unprecedented Policy  
 At the April 27-28 meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee, the central bank signaled it’s not ready to begin its
exit from its unprecedented expansionary policy. The Fed pledged
to keep rates low for an “extended period.” The FOMC is next
scheduled to meet in Washington June 22-23.  
 The Fed may conduct four additional tests of the program.
An auction for 28-day deposits will be held June 28, and a sale
of 84-day deposits will be held July 12. Two further tests may
be scheduled later in the summer, the  central bank  said last
month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        