-- Fed May Trim U.S. Growth Outlook on Europe Risks
-- Scott Lanman
-- 2010-06-16T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/fed-officials-may-trim-forecasts-for-u-s-growth-on-european-debt-crisis.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve officials may trim
forecasts for U.S. economic growth when they meet next week to
set interest rates as Europe’s debt crisis saps demand for
American goods and roils financial markets.  
 Central bankers may reduce their 2010 estimates by
“several tenths” of a percentage point and as much as 0.75
point for 2011, said former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley . That
would mark a reversal from April, when officials raised their
projections for this year to a range of 3.2 percent to 3.7
percent and left 2011 and 2012 forecasts little changed.  
 The new estimates are likely to reinforce the Fed’s pledge,
in place since March 2009, that interest rates will stay very
low for an “extended period,” said former Fed researcher  John Ryding . Some Fed officials are concerned that results of stress
tests planned for European banks may further shake confidence in
the continent’s financial system.  
 “If you were a policy maker and you were looking at the
U.S. picture, you’d say that the downside risks have increased
relative to where you thought they were six weeks ago,” said
Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics LLC in New York.  
 The Federal Open Market Committee meets June 22-23 in
Washington. The Fed will release a statement at about 2:15 p.m.
on June 23, followed by minutes and forecasts from the meeting
on July 14.  
 Ryding predicts the Fed won’t raise its  benchmark rate  from
close to zero until at least March, and he said the odds of a
change in that timeframe are “heavily skewed to being later
rather than sooner.”  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 9 the European
crisis would have a “modest” effect on the U.S., assuming
financial markets “continue to stabilize.”  
 Most Likely Outcome  
 The “most likely outcome” from Europe for the U.S.
economy is shaving “a tenth or two off my growth forecast for
this year,” Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said May 26.
“It also raises the profile of some downside risks.”  
 Fed staff economists may outline a most-likely scenario for
the next 18 months in which the euro-region economy slows
without relapsing into recession as a weaker euro boosts exports
and growth in Latin America and Asia stokes the global economy.  
 The crisis has prompted economists at Barclays Capital
Inc., Credit Suisse, UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG to push back by
several months their predictions for an increase in the Fed’s
benchmark rate.  
 At Barclays, Chief U.S. Economist  Dean Maki  said in a June
4 research note that the Fed will raise the rate in April of
2011, instead of the third quarter of 2010.  
 The Fed may benefit from the expertise of a visiting
European Central Bank economist. Filippo di Mauro, who has
headed international economic forecasting for the ECB since
1998, came to the Fed in April for a five-month residency.  
 Recouping Losses  
 Stocks are recouping some of the losses caused by the
European debt crisis. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  yesterday
rose 2.4 percent, erasing its decline for the year, as a New
York Fed report showed manufacturing in the region accelerated,
adding to signs of global economic resilience. The S&P 500 index
is down 8 percent from its 2010 high on April 23.  
 The ECB on June 10 raised its euro-region growth forecast
for this year to around 1 percent from around 0.8 percent. At
the same time, the bank lowered its forecast for 2011 to 1.2
percent from 1.5 percent because of weaker domestic demand.  
 European Union bank regulators are conducting confidential
stress tests and may publish results this month after lenders
absorbed about $1.8 trillion of losses and writedowns in the
global financial crisis. Financial Stability Board chief  Mario Draghi  this month urged European authorities to publish stress
tests on banks to “clear the air.”  
 More Capital  
 Some Fed officials are concerned the test risks undermining
investor confidence. In one possible outcome, results could show
banks need more capital and there’s no commitment from European
governments to provide it, as the U.S. did with the $700 billion
Troubled Asset Relief Program.  
 “There is definitely a chance there that some of these
banks could be shown to be undercapitalized,” said  Jay Bryson ,
a global economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte,
North Carolina.  
 Other concerns include publicizing test scenarios that
include defaults by Greece and Spain and failing to convince
investors that the exams accurately reflect banks’ finances.  
 “I don’t think there’s much question” that Fed policy
makers should be concerned about potential fallout from stress
tests, said Gramley, a senior economic adviser at Potomac
Research Group in Washington. “What we’re seeing are increasing
signs of credit restraint over there, banks not trusting one
another, borrowers having difficulty getting funds.”  
 ‘Very Dangerous’  
 Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann 
said last week that publishing stress tests would be “very,
very dangerous” if mechanisms to support European banks weren’t
in place beforehand.  
 Not everyone is betting Europe will drag down U.S. growth.
St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said June 14 in Tokyo that
unless Europe deteriorates further, the U.S. is “probably a
beneficiary of the crisis” because of lower Treasury yields and
cheaper commodities, and that the Fed shouldn’t delay
withdrawing record monetary stimulus.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said June 9 the European crisis would have a 'modest' effect on the U.S. assuming financial markets 'continue to stabilize'. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Dean Maki, chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about U.S. manufacturing and housing data for April, and the outlook for the economy and Federal Reserve monetary policy.
     Production in the U.S. rose by the most since August and builders broke ground on fewer homes than projected, showing manufacturing is sustaining the recovery as the housing market retreats following the expiration of a government tax credit. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Fed May Trim Growth Forecasts; U.S. Stock Futures Drop 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
