-- FIFA Files Charges Over World Cup Ambush Marketing by Dutch Beer Company
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-06-16T17:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/fifa-files-charges-over-world-cup-ambush-marketing-by-dutch-beer-company.html

          
          
             FIFA said it filed charges against
the organizers of an ambush marketing campaign for a Dutch beer
during the World Cup match between the Netherlands and Denmark.  
 “The matter is now under criminal investigation,”
soccer’s governing body said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 A group of about 30 women were held following the June 14
match in Johannesburg after they donned orange dresses that are
part of a promotional campaign for Bavaria NV, a Dutch brewer.
Orange is the official color of the Dutch team.  
 Sponsors have paid around $1.2 billion for the right to be
officially associated with the World Cup, sport’s most-watched
event. FIFA lawyers have filed more than 2,500 cases globally
against parties it accuses of ambush marketing.  
 Lieshout, Netherlands-based Bavaria said that while it had
commissioned the dresses for a promotional campaign, they bore
none of its branding. The company paid for two Dutch women to
fly to South Africa and also paid for their match tickets,
Barbara Castelein, one of the women, said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  
 The Dutch pair gathered a group of 34 other women, who also
had their tickets paid for by Bavaria, to join them at the game,
Castelein said. The party of 36 entered the stadium dressed as
Danish soccer fans, as they feared they wouldn’t be granted
access in their orange Bavaria dresses, she added.  
 The South African women involved were “innocent local
girls” and no charges have been filed against them, FIFA said
in an e-mailed statement.  
 ‘All Civil Remedies’  
 Soccer’s governing body “is looking into all civil
remedies available and will await the outcome of the criminal
case currently being run by the South African police service,”
FIFA said.  
 Castelein and her Dutch friend were arrested by the police
and will probably be brought before court today, she said in a
text message earlier today. The Dutch Ministry of Foreign
Affairs said two Dutch women are being held by the South African
police.  
 Bavaria spokeswoman Eva van der Hout said the wellbeing of
the women is the company’s first priority.  
 Vishnu Naidoo, a spokesman for the South African Police
Service, said he couldn’t confirm if anyone had been arrested.
He said police had opened an inquiry into the case.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        