-- Fortress's $5 Billion Private-Equity Loss Haunts Edens as Black Has Gain
-- Cristina Alesci
-- 2010-06-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/fortress-s-5-billion-private-equity-loss-haunts-edens-as-black-has-gain.html

          
          
             Fortress Investment Group LLC  has $5
billion in unrealized losses from private-equity funds started
since 2005, the beginning of a two-year buyout boom, more than
its largest New York rivals combined.  
 Blackstone Group LP , the biggest private-equity firm, had
an unrealized loss of $861 million in the period and KKR & Co.’s
buyout funds are down $708 million, according to regulatory
filings in the past six weeks. Funds at  Leon Black’s  Apollo
Global Management LLC posted a profit.  
 The numbers, some disclosed for the first time, show how
the largest buyout firms have navigated the damage from
investments made before the 2007 financial crisis and allow
clients to compare performance as managers seek new money.
Blackstone, run by co-founder  Stephen Schwarzman , aims to close
its seventh buyout fund this month.  Wes Edens , who co-founded
Fortress and oversees private equity, plans to raise a fund next
year, after abandoning an attempt in 2009.  
 “If we were to consider investing in Fortress, the first
issue would probably be the performance of the more recent,
larger vintages,” said  William Atwood , who helps oversee about
$10 billion as executive director of the Illinois State Board of
Investment in Chicago. “It might make sense to wait and see if
things turn around.”  
 Edens’s funds invested about $13.8 billion in private equity
since 2005. That amount has declined 36 percent to $8.8 billion,
including distributions, according to a May 10 filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The loss can widen or
turn into a profit depending on how the holdings fare in the
future.  
 Incentive Income  
 The shortfall over the past five years more than offset
gains in earlier funds, leaving Fortress’s private-equity
investors with a paper loss of $1.3 billion on $20.9 billion in
initial assets since the firm was founded in 1998, a decline of
6 percent. Clients received $9.1 billion in distributions.  
 Performance suffered in part because the firm made 66
percent of its private-equity investments in 2005 or later, more
than peers over similar periods. Blackstone,  KKR  and Apollo all
posted profits in their buyout funds over similar periods and
over the life of their firms.  
 Officials at the four New York-based firms declined to
comment for this story.  
 The Fortress filing broke down amounts on how much capital
each fund invested, how much it  returned  to clients, and what
the remaining holdings are worth. Fortress included information
on how much its investments need to gain for the firm to earn
incentive income. Those figures show 12 buyout funds are
currently below that mark and together need to rise $9 billion
to claim a share of profits. The funds haven’t lost any
companies to bankruptcy and the holdings may recover.  
 ‘Obfuscated Performance’  
 “Managers have traditionally obfuscated performance,”
said  Harold Bradley , chief investment officer of the Ewing
Marion Kauffman Foundation, which oversees $1.7 billion. “That
prohibited comparative analysis. The new data is a start.”  
 Blackstone started publishing similar information earlier
this year, after an exchange of letters with the SEC. The firm,
in a  letter  dated Dec. 15, agreed to comply with a request by
the regulator to provide investors “with a more meaningful
understanding” of the performance of each of the firm’s
“significant” funds.  
 John Heine , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on the
discussions with Blackstone.  
 Blackstone, KKR  
 Blackstone invested $30.3 billion in buyout funds dated
August 1997 and later, and added $14.1 billion, or 47 percent,
in value including distributions, according to its May 10
filing. About 56 percent of the capital was spent since December
of 2005, when it started Blackstone Capital Partners V. That
fund is down $861 million on $16.9 billion invested, and has
$4.4 billion left to put to work.  
 Blackstone said all private-equity funds that have fully
invested their capital commitments are earning a share of
profit, or carried interest. BCP V would need to gain $4.8
billion to reach the threshold. Blackstone doesn’t include real
estate funds under private-equity.  
 KKR has invested $36.7 billion in traditional private
equity since 1996 and posted a gain of $15.5 billion, or 42
percent, according to a June 3 filing. Funds started since 2005
account for $21.6 billion, or 59 percent, of the capital
deployed and are down $708 million, or 3 percent.  
 KKR increased its holdings by $2.5 billion during the first
quarter and Blackstone’s private-equity investments gained by
about $3.4 billion. The figure includes realized and unrealized
gains.  
 Apollo  
 Apollo  has invested $24 billion through funds dated 1998 or
later, and distributed $20.2 billion to clients, according to a
filing dated March 22. With assets worth $16 billion still held
by the funds, investors got a return of $12.2 billion in the
past 12 years. Two funds started since 2005 invested $15.3
billion and are up $2.2 billion, or 14 percent.  
 The 2006 Fund VI, which has invested $10.8 billion, was
valued at $11.6 billion as of Dec. 31, including distributions.
The fund had dropped to $6.5 billion in the first quarter of
2009, according to a person who has seen the marks and who asked
not to be identified because the information is private.  
 It recovered because it bought debt in companies owned by
Apollo, which gained with last year’s  credit market rally . The
fund’s $919 million investment in real estate company  Realogy 
was marked at $74 million as of Dec. 31, according to a letter
sent to investors in March.  
 Charles Zehren , a spokesman for New York-based Apollo,
declined to comment.  
 Performance Suffers  
 Even with recent markups, returns of the younger funds are
in many cases below those of older vintages. Two of Fortress’s
earliest funds, raised in 1999 and 2002, posted annualized rates
of return of 26 percent and 37 percent, respectively, since
inception. Fund III, raised in 2004 and 40 percent larger than
Fund II at $2.8 billion, produced a rate of return of 1.1
percent from inception through March 31. The rate for the 2006
Fund IV is a negative 9.7 percent.  
 Among the investments of Fund IV is  Intrawest ULC , which
this year restructured its debt after lenders threatened to
auction assets of the ski resort operator. Investors in
Fortress’s Fund IV, Fund IV Co and FICO funds had seen their
collective $1.7 billion equity stake in the company reduced to 4
cents on the dollar as of Oct. 31. In the restructuring,
Fortress agreed to buy additional equity in Intrawest for $150
million, a person briefed on the talks said in February.  
 Intrawest, Hilton  
 The 2007 Fund V has lost $1.7 billion of $3.6 billion in
initial assets, as investments in  Florida East Coast Industries
Inc.  and a portfolio of loans Fortress calls MBS Holdings
soured.  
 Blackstone also had to restructure some of its biggest
holdings. Its  Hilton Worldwide  hotel chain in April completed a
deal to reduce debt by almost $4 billion and extend the maturity
by two years. Blackstone bought Hilton in 2007 near the top of
the real estate market in a deal worth about $26 billion,
including assumed debt.  
 Still, since its first buyout fund, which began putting
money to work in 1987, Blackstone has increased $32.3 billion in
invested capital to $49.4 billion as of March 31. That number
includes amounts already distributed to clients and the value of
assets that have not yet been sold.  
 Track Record  
 Apollo’s private-equity funds invested $29.3 billion since
the firm was started in 1990, and increased that to $46.8
billion, including distributions, with about 52 percent of the
total invested coming from 2006 and 2008 funds.  
 KKR, in business since 1976, has produced a $42.8 billion
profit for investors on $47.2 billion invested. Last year, the
firm raised $543 million to shore up investments in Europe. KKR
has $12.6 billion in unused capital commitments to funds raised
since 2005.  
 Apollo disclosed figures through Dec. 31, 2009, and KKR
through March 31 of this year. Both published the information in
S-1 forms with the SEC, registration statements they are
required to file because they plan to list shares on the New
York Stock Exchange.  
 Blackstone will probably finish raising its seventh buyout
fund by the end of June, said a person briefed on the plan who
declined to be identified because the information is private.
The fund, BCP VI, will have about $12 billion in capital
commitments, according to the person. The firm had sought $15
billion to $20 billion when it started raising the fund in 2008.  
 Looking for Capital  
 Fortress in September released long-time investor
Washington State Investment Board from a $300 million commitment
to a new private-equity fund, according to the pension plan,
which manages $74 billion. The firm had aimed to raise $6
billion for the fund, according to researcher Preqin Ltd.  
 Edens has said Fortress plans to market a new buyout fund
“in the first part of next year.” Commitments to the younger
funds have been largely deployed, leaving little cash to take
advantage of any future investing opportunities.  
 The private-equity business has “a couple of billion
dollars in capital,” Edens said on a conference call last
month. The number shrinks to about $450 million when excluding
cash at companies the funds hold, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on the filing.  
 “Managers with little or no dry powder are generally
looking for fresh capital,” said  Craig Marmer  of San Francisco-
based Probitas Partners, which helps private equity firms raise
funds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wes Edens, who co-founded Fortress and oversees private equity, plans to raise a fund next year after abandoning an attempt in 2009. Photographer:Adrian Moser/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Fortress Investment Group LLC, co-founded by Wes Edens, has $5 billion in unrealized losses from private-equity funds started since 2005, while funds at Leon Black's Apollo Global Management LLC posted a profit. Blackstone Group LP, the biggest private-equity firm, had an unrealized loss of $861 million in the period and KKR & Co.’s buyout funds are down $708 million, according to regulatory filings in the past six weeks. Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
