-- Fortis Health Must Decide on Parkway Bid by July, Singapore Regulator Says
-- Simeon Bennett
-- 2010-06-16T11:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/fortis-health-must-decide-on-parkway-bid-by-july-singapore-regulator-says.html

          
          
             Fortis Healthcare Ltd.  must announce 
by July 30 whether it plans to make a general offer for  Parkway
Holdings Ltd. , Singapore’s Securities Industry Council said.  
 Fortis, which holds 25.4 percent of Parkway, said yesterday
it was keeping its options open after Kuala Lumpur-based
Khazanah Nasional Bhd. made a bid to gain control of Asia’s
largest hospital operator. Khazanah, a Malaysian state
investment company, offered on May 27 to more than double its
Parkway  stake  to 51.5 percent for S$1.18 billion ($845 million).  
 “Parkway shareholders should be given sufficient
information, advice and time to enable them to reach an informed
decision on the partial offer,” the securities council said in
an e-mailed  statement  after the close of trading today.  
 Fortis said on June 9 it plans to raise 27.5 billion rupees
($591 million) and its board approved doubling its borrowing
limit to 60 billion rupees. The New Delhi-based hospital
operator’s capital-raising and increased borrowing limits
indicate preparation for countering Khazanah’s offer, according
to Batlivala & Karani Securities India Pvt.  
 “If Fortis counters Khazanah’s offer, it may end up with a
huge equity base and highly leveraged balance sheet, which would
be highly negative for Fortis,”  Rohit Bhat ,  Sudarshan Padmanabhan  and  Gaurav Chugh , analysts at Batlivala & Karani,
wrote in a report today on the pharmaceutical industry.  
 Pricey Investment  
 If Fortis acquires all of Parkway, it will be an
“expensive” investment that would yield a return of about 3
percent to 5 percent, the brokerage said.  
 Ranjana Smetacek , a spokeswoman at Fortis, declined to
comment on the Singapore regulator’s statement. Fortis said
yesterday that the fundraising plans were “merely enabling
resolutions and are subject to requisite approvals.”  
 Parkway  rose  0.5 percent to close at S$3.81 in Singapore
trading and has gained 26 percent since Khazanah’s offer. Fortis
 advanced  0.4 percent to 152.1 rupees in Mumbai trading.  
 The Economic Times reported yesterday that Fortis hired
Religare Capital, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Macquarie
Group Ltd. to raise funds for a possible counter-bid for Parkway.
A group of banks is willing to provide as much as $1 billion,
according to the report. Smetacek declined to comment yesterday.  
 Parkway operates 16 hospitals with more than 3,400 beds in
China, India and Singapore, among other Asian countries,
according to its  website . Fortis is India’s second-biggest
hospital operator by market value after Apollo Hospitals
Enterprise Ltd.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        