-- Nouvel Observateur Chief Executive Says France Telecom to Join Monde Bid
-- Matthew Campbell
-- 2010-06-16T14:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/france-telecom-nouvel-obs-to-bid-80-million-euros-for-le-monde-newspaper.html

          
          
             France Telecom SA  will join the
parent company of the Nouvel Observateur magazine in its bid for
a stake in Le Monde, France’s struggling newspaper of record,
according to the magazine’s chief executive officer.  
 The companies will make a firm offer on June 21, with
France Telecom contributing 20 million euros ($24.6 million) to
25 million euros in an 80 million-euro bid, CEO  Claude Perdriel 
said.  Beatrice Mandine , a spokeswoman for Paris-based France
Telecom, declined to comment. Groupe SFA PAR, which controls
Nouvel Observateur, made a “pre-offer” last week.  
 “I am very happy and enthusiastic to work with France
Telecom,” Perdriel told reporters in Paris today, adding he’s
“happy to welcome other investors,” while keeping control of
Le Monde if he succeeds.  
 The newspaper is in talks with investor groups to resolve a
capital crunch, attracting attention from President  Nicolas Sarkozy . Last week he told Le Monde CEO  Eric Fottorino  that he
opposed a rival bid by investors including  Pierre Berge , who has
backed the opposition Socialist Party.  
 Berge is bidding with Lazard Ltd. banker  Matthieu Pigasse 
and Iliad SA founder  Xavier Niel  for control of the afternoon
daily. The paper typically stakes out the political center
between the conservative Figaro and left-wing Liberation, making
its support important for politicians.  
 No Management Role  
 Combined, SFA and France Telecom would hold about 65
percent of Le Monde, Perdriel said. Nouvel Observateur Deputy
CEO Denins Olivennes said the telephone company, France’s
largest, wouldn’t have input on the newspaper’s management.  
 The Paris-based daily cut 130 jobs in a 2008 cost-cutting
program that aimed to save 15 million euros annually.  
 Circulation declined last year at all three major Paris
dailies. Readership fell by 9.5 percent to 111,000 at
Liberation, 4.1 percent to 288,000 at Le Monde and 1.8 percent
to 314,000 at Le Figaro, according to national circulation
office OJD.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        