-- Gene Therapy Shows Promise for Blocking HIV, Controlling AIDS
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-06-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/gene-therapy-shows-promise-for-blocking-hiv-controlling-aids-study-says.html

          
          
             Two cutting-edge medical
technologies, stem cell transplantation and  gene therapy , were
combined in an attack on the AIDS virus that may lead to new
strategies for treating people infected with HIV.  
 Researchers at the  City of Hope , a nonprofit research
institute near Los Angeles, extracted stem cells from the blood
of four people with AIDS-related lymphoma, a blood cancer, and
modified some of them to carry anti-HIV genes. The altered cells
were returned to the patients’ blood without harming them and
remained there for two years, a sign that if given in greater
number, they might be able to suppress the AIDS virus.  
 The results may help researchers hunting for ways to cure
HIV patients or block the AIDS virus without putting people on
toxic medicine for the rest of their lives. Potent  antiviral
drugs  suppress the virus and allow those infected to live near-
normal lives. Yet the medicines are unaffordable to millions in
poor countries and cause side effects that may shorten the lives
of people who use them.  
 “One of the problems with antiviral therapy is that it has
almost led to the perception that HIV is cured and that’s not
true,” said  David Schaffer , a professor of bioengineering at
the University of California, Berkeley, who co-directs the
school’s stem cell center. “If you could develop a therapy to
make HIV-proof blood cells, then you could create a true cure
for HIV. This is a very promising clinical trial that takes us
in that direction.”  
 Schaffer, who was not involved in the research, wrote a
commentary accompanying the study. Both were published today in
the journal  Science Translational Medicine .  
 Current Treatments  
 More than 34 million people worldwide are infected with HIV,
the virus that causes AIDS, and about 2 million lost their lives
to AIDS in 2008, according to the  World Health Organization ,
based in Geneva. Efforts to develop vaccines to prevent high-
risk people from becoming infected have so far failed, leaving
the drug cocktails made by companies led by  Gilead Sciences
Inc. , based in Foster City, California, and London-based
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc  as the method of treating people with HIV.  
 The City of Hope research builds on an experiment reported
last year by a German doctor, Gero Hutter, in the only known
case of an AIDS patient being cured. The patient, who had AIDS
and leukemia, was given a stem-cell transplant from a donor
whose rare gene variant caused his immune cells to lack a
receptor called  CCR5 . Without this receptor, HIV can’t infect
immune cells.  
 New Blood  
 Hutter’s patient had his  blood-forming stem cells  wiped out
and replaced by those of the donor. The transplant rebuilt his
blood system and cured his leukemia. His immune cells also
became resistant to HIV, allowing him to stop the antiviral
drugs he’d been taking for 10 years.  
 Three years after the transplant, the patient still has no
detectable HIV, Hutter said in a June 5 interview.  
 The City of Hope researchers extracted patients’ blood-
forming stem cells, genetically modified some of them and
infused them back into the patients after first wiping out their
bone marrow and blood system.  
 The modified cells were altered using a harmless virus to
carry three different gene sequences into them. This triple-
therapy approach was modeled on drug cocktails that attack HIV
in multiple ways to overcome drug resistance, study leader  John
Rossi  said in a June 14 telephone interview.  
 One of the molecules cuts the CCR5 sequence in an effort to
bar the door to a cell and keep HIV from entering, the second
squires away a protein that the virus uses to replicate and the
third knocks out a key piece of genetic machinery that HIV needs
to maintain itself, Rossi said.  
 Multiple Attacks  
 “The idea is to hit multiple sites of the virus with
different types of gene therapy so resistance to one doesn’t
make it resist others,” Rossi said. “The three work better
than any two together.”  
 The  transplant  procedure is risky and was only attempted on
HIV patients who needed it to treat their cancer. All four
patients remain free of their lymphoma about two years after the
treatment, Rossi said.  
 The number of gene-modified cells returned to the patients
in the study was too small to cure or even improve their HIV
infections, Rossi said. The next step is to replace a much
larger portion of a patient’s stem cells with gene-modified
cells and see if they can substantially reduce their HIV level.  
 Rossi and his colleagues also are exploring ways to alter
the transplant procedure to make it less toxic. That may allow
the procedure to be used on HIV patients who don’t have cancer.  
 The research was funded in part by Benitec Ltd., a
Melbourne, Australia-based biotechnology company that developed
one of the gene therapy treatments used in the trial.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       STEM CELL SCIENCE  
                       
                         
                           Graham Barclay/Bloomberg News. 
                         
                         A scientist gathers the culture medium on which human 'ES' cell-derived cardiomyocytes are grown. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A scientist gathers the culture medium on which human 'ES' cell-derived cardiomyocytes are grown. Photographer: Graham Barclay/Bloomberg News.  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Drug Cocktail  
                       
                         
                           Joe Raedle/Getty Images 
                         
                         A cocktail of 14 different medications are taken three times a day by some people with HIV. Stem cell transplantation and gene therapy have been combined in an attack on the AIDS virus that may lead to new strategies for treating people infected with HIV. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A cocktail of 14 different medications are taken three times a day by some people with HIV. Stem cell transplantation and gene therapy have been combined in an attack on the AIDS virus that may lead to new strategies for treating people infected with HIV. Photographer: Joe Raedle/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
