-- Germans Long for `Credibility,' Gauck Says as June 30 President Vote Looms
-- Patrick Donahue
-- 2010-06-16T16:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/germans-long-for-credibility-gauck-says-as-june-30-president-vote-looms.html

          
          
             Germans distrust their leaders and
are desperate for a return to “credibility,” said  Joachim Gauck , the opposition candidate to be the next German president.  
 Gauck, 70, a democracy activist in East Germany who went on
to oversee the opening up of Stasi secret-police files, is vying
for the largely ceremonial presidency on June 30. While the
president is chosen by a special assembly of lawmakers and state
delegates rather than by direct vote, polls show the public
favors Gauck over the government’s candidate,  Christian Wulff .  
 People “have too many reasons for mistrust right now,”
Gauck told reporters in Berlin today. “They have a yearning for
credibility and they want to have credible people in top
positions in politics, people they can trust.” Germans “need
somebody who can bring back this trust.”  
 Gauck’s challenge adds to the pressure on Chancellor Angela
Merkel as her coalition struggles to overcome policy disputes
and public criticism of her handling of Europe’s debt crisis
that has sent her government’s popularity to historic lows.  
 The German coalition’s very survival could be at stake if
Merkel’s candidate Wulff, the 51-year-old prime minister of the
western state of  Lower Saxony  and a deputy leader of her party,
fails to win, said  Ulrich Deupmann , director of Ideas.ag, a
Berlin-based political advisory company.  
 “Those who vote for Gauck know that they’re putting the
government at risk of collapse,” Deupmann said in an interview.
“With every round the election goes on, Merkel loses
authority.” If neither Gauck nor Wulff wins a majority in the
first round of voting, the ballot will be repeated until there’s
an outright winner.  
 ‘Outstanding’ Gauck  
 Gauck, who was nominated by the opposition Social Democrats
and the Green Party, has won praise from newspapers including
Die Welt and news magazine Der Spiegel. Even Merkel said Gauck
is an “outstanding personality,” Bild newspaper cited her as
saying in an interview published June 12.  
 He enters the race as public approval of Merkel’s coalition
remains at its lowest in 3 1/2 years. Combined support for
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc and her Free Democratic Party
coalition partner held at 37 percent for the third consecutive
week in a Forsa poll today, more than 11 points lower than in
September’s election when Merkel won a second term.  
 In a separate poll, 92 percent of 533 senior business and
government executives said they’re disappointed in her
government; just 6 percent said they’re satisfied. Forty-nine
percent said Merkel is a weak head of government, up 27 percent
from December and her worst rating since she took office in
November 2005, the Allensbach poll published in Capital magazine
showed yesterday.  
 Greek Flip-Flop  
 Merkel’s flip-flop on extending aid to Greece was blamed by
politicians for a regional election loss last month that cost
her control of the upper house of parliament. The upheaval
deepened with the May 31 resignation of President  Horst Koehler ,
a Christian Democrat, citing a lack of respect for his office.
Criticism of 80 billion euros of budget cuts announced June 7
led newspapers to speculate that the ruling coalition was close
to breaking up.  
 Even so, Merkel should be able to rely on a majority in the
special assembly to elect her candidate for the presidency.  
 “Wulff is the right candidate,”  Michael Meister , the
finance spokesman in parliament for Merkel’s party, said in an
interview. “I assume that he will be elected, and I hope in the
first ballot.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        