-- Giants' Wide Receiver Hixon Will Miss 2010 Season With Knee-Ligament Tear
-- Mason Levinson
-- 2010-06-16T21:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/giants-wide-receiver-hixon-will-miss-2010-season-with-knee-ligament-tear.html

          
          
             New York Giants wide receiver
and return specialist  Domenik Hixon  will miss the 2010
National Football League season after tearing a knee
ligament in the team’s first practice at its new stadium.  
 Hixon will have surgery within three weeks to repair
the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee, which he
damaged yesterday during practice at the New Meadowlands
Stadium, the Giants said in an e-mailed news release.  
 The injury on the FieldTurf surface occurred as Hixon
fielded a punt and appeared to get his foot stuck in the
ground, Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  told reporters.  
 Asked if the injury made him worry about the new
surface, Coughlin said: “You have to go over there and go
on it before you can make some judgments about it.  
 “We will be better served now because of the shoes
that we recommend and so on,” Coughlin said, according to
a transcript of his comments. “We’re asking the turf
people to take another look at the field and some of the
thoughts that we had about shoes and stuff.”  
 Hixon was wearing shoes recommended for the surface
when he was injured, Coughlin added.  
 The 25-year-old Hixon led the Giants in  kick and punt
return yardage  last season, returning one punt for a
touchdown. He also had 15 catches for 187 yards and a score
for New York, which missed the playoffs with an 8-8 record.  
 Steve Smith  was the leading wide receiver for the
Giants last season with 107 catches for 1,220 yards and 7
touchdowns. Other options for the team are  Mario Manningham 
and  Hakeem Nicks , while  Sinorice Moss , who played as a kick
and punt returner, is also on the roster.  
 The Giants and New York Jets are moving this season to
the arena in East Rutherford, New Jersey. Giants Stadium,
which is next door, is being demolished.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        