-- GM Withdraws State-Aid Applications in Europe for Opel, Vauxhall Divisions
-- Angela Cullen
-- 2010-06-16T16:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/gm-opel-vauxhall-to-withdraw-applications-for-government-aid-in-europe.html

          
          
             General Motors Co. , the biggest U.S.
carmaker, and its Opel and Vauxhall brands withdrew all
applications across Europe for state loan guarantees after
failing to reach government agreements.  
 GM will “fund the requirements internally” for a
reorganization of Opel and Vauxhall announced seven months ago,
the Detroit-based manufacturer said today in a statement. The
amounts and reasons for the funding haven’t changed, it said.  
 “That’s great news for GM and Opel,” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive Research at
the University of Duisburg-Essen. “GM has finally realized it’s
more important to take care of their business rather than
chasing subsidies. They’ve got the money to do it, anyway.”  
 German Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  turned down GM’s
request on June 9 for 1.1 billion euros ($1.36 billion) in
federal and regional loan guarantees. Reorganizing Ruesselsheim,
Germany-based Opel and the Vauxhall division in the U.K. will
cost 3.3 billion euros, GM Europe President  Nick Reilly  said
today on a conference call.  
 GM is 61 percent-owned by the U.S. government after 39-day
reorganization under bankruptcy protection last year. The
carmaker, which reported first-quarter net income of $865
million, finished repayments in April of the $8.4 billion in
loans owed to the governments of the U.S., Canada and Ontario,
five years ahead of schedule.  
 Reorganization Maintained  
 The Opel-Vauxhall operation is sticking to its
reorganization plan, funded by GM’s improved earnings, and it
may return to profit in 2011, Reilly said.  
 “GM is giving Opel high priority,” Reilly said. GM’s
“position has certainly become somewhat better.”  
 Guarantees sought from European governments totaled
1.8 billion euros, with the U.K. committing to backing of 330
million euros of bank loans and a similar amount “indicated”
by Spain, GM said. In the absence of the guarantees, GM will
provide an additional 1.4 billion euros to Opel and Vauxhall,
Reilly said.  
 Germany welcomes GM’s decision “greatly,” Bruederle said
in Berlin today, adding that the U.S. carmaker has the resources
to reorganize Opel without state involvement.  
 Halting Aid ‘Spiral’  
 “GM appears to be prepared to make good on its
responsibilities as owner” of Opel, and the German unit “can
hopefully once again concentrate on building successful cars,”
the minister told reporters. “This spiral of aid must be and
has been broken.”  
 The four German states with Opel factories started talks
about possible separate guarantees after Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said the carmaker may seek their help following the
federal authorities’ rejection of GM’s request. The state
governments held a first round of discussions yesterday without
giving any commitment to aiding Opel.  
 “The decision by the German government was a
disappointment for us,” while arranging help from the states
would have delayed financing further, Reilly said. “We cannot
afford to wait for government decisions any longer.  
 GM reiterated that the European division plans to introduce
eight models this year and four in 2011, including vehicles such
as an updated Corsa subcompact and the electric-powered Ampera
car. GM said it’s maintaining a Feb. 9 pledge to invest 11
billion euros in Opel and Vauxhall by 2014, including spending
to develop fuel-efficient engines and electric-propulsion
systems.  
 The Opel-Vauxhall reorganization program includes
eliminating 8,300 jobs from a European  workforce  of 48,000
employees. The carmaker has no plans to widen the job cuts,
Reilly said.  
 “We have no intention to alter the restructuring plan,”
Reilly said. “It’s the best possible plan for Opel.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
 Angela Cullen  in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       GM's Opel withdraws state-aid applications in Europe  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         An Opel logo is seen on an automobile as a German flag flies nearby in Russelsheim, Germany. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An Opel logo is seen on an automobile as a German flag flies nearby in Russelsheim, Germany. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
