-- Go Fund Yourself, Congress Ought to Tell the SEC: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-06-16T01:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/go-fund-yourself-congress-ought-to-tell-the-sec-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             Few could argue convincingly that
the U.S. Securities and Exchange  Commission  has excelled at its
duties.  
 Having failed to detect the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S.
history, and with employees viewing Internet porn on the job,
the SEC hasn’t exactly served as a shining star in the federal
galaxy of regulators.  
 A solution is now before Senate and House conferees who are
hammering out their differences in a mammoth financial reform
bill. The remedy: Give the agency more to do and freer rein.  
 Counterintuitive? Yes. A bad idea? Not at all.  
 The Senate version of the optimistically named Restoring
American Financial Stability Act would let the agency fund
itself with the fees it collects from registrations and
transactions. It’s an idea that SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
advocates and Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, has
pushed.  
 The downside is that it would remove leverage that Congress
and the president have over the SEC by keeping them away from
the agency’s purse strings. As with the Federal Reserve, SEC
budgets would still be submitted to Congress, but lawmakers
couldn’t cut them.  
 If the agency is ever going to have the resources to catch
up with the growing size and evolving sophistication of the
financial markets, it has to have more money and a way to
protect itself from the ever-swinging political pendulum.  
 Bear Follows Bull  
 As surely as bear follows bull, an anti-regulatory
sentiment will settle over Washington once the current reform
fever (such as it is) is spent. When that happens, regulators’
budgets drop or stagnate while the bravura of the industries
they are supposed to track grows.  
 “It frees the SEC, at least a little bit, from the
budgetary pressure” sure to accompany “the anti-regulatory
pushback that will come,” says  Peter Henning , a former SEC
lawyer who teaches law at Wayne State University in Detroit.  
 It’s true that the Obama administration and Congress have
now moved twice to boost annual SEC funding by more than 10
percent, but that still isn’t enough to make up for the
starvation budgets of the  Bush  years.  
 Shrinking Agency  
 From 2004 to 2007, the agency’s enforcement and examination
staff shrank by 10 percent while the number of investment
advisers grew by 50 percent, according to leaders of the Federal
Bar Association’s Securities Law Committee.  
 That group’s executive council, consisting of top
securities lawyers drawn largely from the SEC,  wrote  key
lawmakers last week urging self-funding for the agency. They
called it “critical for the protection of investors.”  
 Already stretched thin, the SEC will be pulled in more
directions under the bill conferees are now considering.  
 The SEC would get vast new authority and be forced to
conclude investigations faster. It would begin registering large
hedge funds, assign rating firms to evaluate new securities and
get the power to go after those who merely aided or abetted
securities fraud.  
 Oh, and the SEC would create and oversee an enhanced
whistleblower program and set up an Office of Investor Advocate.
There would be more reports to Congress, too.  
 Both chambers want to give the SEC more money. The House
says funding should double over the next five years, though
Congress would still have to appropriate it.  
 Still Chewing  
 The Senate version  endorses  self-funding. Congress could
still haul future SEC chairmen up to Capitol Hill for a chewing-
out. Lawmakers could still undertake whatever investigations
they want. The administration and Congress would still get to
see the SEC budget. They just couldn’t shrink it.  
 We’re talking about a lot of money here. The SEC took in
about $7.4 billion in fees from 2005 to 2009, compared to the
$4.5 billion that Congress appropriated to the agency,  according 
to the New York Times.  
 You could argue that the agency needs to show it can better
manage its resources before Congress gives it so much more money
and so much more slack.  
 But there are ways to build in oversight, as shown by SEC
Inspector General  David Kotz , whose  reports  have repeatedly
shamed the agency.  
 Madoff and Stanford  
 If it is going to understand and pursue the sort of tips it
blew off about  Bernard Madoff  and  Robert Stanford , the SEC must
be able to hire smart, experienced people who know what they are
doing.  
 Planning for the long term is pretty hard when you are
living year to year, never knowing when you can breathe and when
you have to suck it up.  
 If Congress is serious about restoring financial stability,
it should start with giving the SEC some financial stability of
its own.  
 ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        