-- Phil Mickelson Rises in Popularity as `Antithesis of Tiger'
-- Michael Buteau
-- 2010-06-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/mickelson-s-antithesis-of-tiger-popularity-soars-heading-into-u-s-open.html

          
          
             Phil Mickelson  has chased  Tiger Woods  for more than a decade. He might finally catch him this
week at the U.S. Open, eclipsing him both on the course and in
the hearts of fans.  
 Mickelson, who is 0.55 points away from overtaking Woods at
No. 1 in the  Official World Golf Ranking , comes to California’s
 Pebble Beach Golf Links  June 17-20 with a third Masters
Tournament title on his resume and a popularity rating once
reserved for his long-time rival that may help him close a $50
million gap in endorsements. The two are listed as 8-1 co-
favorites at U.K. bookmaker William Hill Plc.  
 Wood’s one-vehicle accident in November led him to discuss
publicly his marital infidelities, and the reputation of
Mickelson, who turns 40 today, has soared. As his wife and
mother battle breast cancer, Mickelson won his third Masters in
April. The win stole the spotlight from Woods’s return to golf
following months of public marital strife.  
 “There was so much conversation about Tiger leading up to
the Masters,” said Matt Fleming, a senior account manager with
Los Angeles-based  Davie Brown Entertainment , which ranks
celebrity and athlete endorsers. “Phil was ultimately somewhat
the antithesis of Tiger on and off the course, so when he won,
everybody was excited and that started to reflect in his
scores.”  
 That excitement vaulted Mickelson up the company’s Davie
Brown Index, which is used by advertising agencies to gauge the
ability of celebrities to influence consumers. Woods’s numbers
have fallen to near the bottom in almost every category.  
 Top to Bottom  
 In its April survey, conducted eight days after Mickelson’s
Masters victory, he ranked 23rd out of 2,501 athletes and
celebrities in the “endorsement” category, which measures how
consumers identify with celebrities. In December 2009, he ranked
370th. Woods, 34, has fallen to 2,365th in the endorsement
category from 11th in January 2009.  
 “He went from the absolute top to the absolute bottom,”
Fleming said of Woods. “We’ve never quite seen anything like
that.”  
 Mickelson also took the lead in the “aspiration”
category, ranking 43rd. Woods fell to 2,469th, marking his
lowest score ever. His rating, a measure of the degree to which
consumers aspire to have the celebrity’s life, is comparable to
those of former San Francisco Giants outfielder  Barry Bonds  and
divorced U.S. reality television star  Jon Gosselin .  
 The shift in ratings is deserved, according to 1982 U.S.
Open champion  Tom Watson .  
 “When you win, good things happen as far as sponsorships
go,” Watson said in a telephone interview. “Phil will never
win as many tournaments as Tiger, but he is certainly playing
some wonderful golf. The sponsors like that. They want to
associate with a winner.”  
 Endorsement Gap  
 In addition to gaining on Woods in the golf rankings,
Mickelson is likely to close the gap that exists between him and
Woods in endorsement earnings.  
 Mickelson made $53 million in endorsement and on-course
earnings in 2009, according to Sports Illustrated, compared with
Woods’s $99.7 million.  
 There currently are no plans to add to Mickelson’s list of
endorsers, which includes KPMG LLP,  Callaway Golf Co .,  Barclays
Plc ,  Exxon Mobil Corp . and Rolex watches, according to T.R.
Reinman, a spokesman for the golfer.  
 Woods, the first athlete to earn more than $1 billion,
according to Forbes magazine, lost endorsement contracts with
 Accenture Plc ,  AT&T Inc . and  PepsiCo Inc. ’s Gatorade after the
crash that led to his admission of marital infidelity. He also
was dropped by  Hank Haney , his coach since 2003.  
 Rivalry Question  
 Mickelson won’t discuss their on-course rivalry, a question
posed every time he has played this year.  
 “I’d rather not talk about that,” Mickelson said before
the start of the Memorial Tournament in Dublin, Ohio, this
month.  
 Woods, who lost the No. 1 ranking to  David Duval  in 1999
and  Vijay Singh  in 2004, said being replaced at the top by
Mickelson would have nothing to do with their relationship.  
 “The whole idea to be No. 1 and continue to be No. 1 is
you have to win golf tournaments and I haven’t done that in a
while,” Woods said at the Players Championship last month.  
 Other than the Masters, where he finished fourth, Woods has
completed four rounds twice in four events. He’s 118th on the
U.S. PGA Tour’s  money list  and dropped to 13th in the Ryder Cup
standings, prompting U.S. captain  Corey Pavin  to say last month
“I’m not going to treat Tiger any different than any other
player. He’s certainly not going to be an automatic pick.”  
 Missed Cut  
 Mickelson has three other top-10 finishes along with his
Masters win, including a runner-up at the Quail Hollow
Championship in Charlotte, North Carolina. Woods missed the cut
that week for the first time in five years after a second-round
score of 79, his highest since 2002.  
 While Woods told a reporter yesterday at Pebble Beach that
details of his marriage are “none of your business,” his life
on the golf course is becoming “much more normal now.” After
injuring his neck preparing for the Masters, Woods said, he’s
found a balance.  
 “I’m starting to find out how much I can and can’t push
myself each and every day,” he said. “I overdid it, overcooked
it right before Augusta, trying to get ready. I learned my
lesson there.”  
 As Woods continues to search for his winning ways, the road
to regaining the respect and admiration of competitors and fans
-- and the support of new sponsors -- might be even longer.  
 ‘Respect for Game’  
 “The things that have happened with Tiger are self-
inflicted,” said Watson, 60. “There’s a certain amount of
respect that every golfer should have for the game. When it’s
not shown, it can hurt you financially.”  
 Mickelson never has won the U.S. Open, a tournament Woods
has captured three times, including by a record 15 strokes in
2000, the last time it was held at Pebble Beach.  
 After finishing second to  Lucas Glover  last year at New
York’s Bethpage State Park, Mickelson said he put the loss in
perspective. It came eight days before his wife was due to
undergo breast cancer surgery.  
 “I want to win this tournament badly,” Mickelson said
after his loss to Glover. “I feel I’ll have more and more
chances.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Phil Mickelson Rises in Popularity as ‘Antithesis of Tiger  
                       
                         
                           Scott Halleran/Getty Images 
                         
                         Phil Mickelson celebrates a par-saving putt. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Phil Mickelson celebrates a par-saving putt. Photographer: Scott Halleran/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
