-- Microsoft's Lag Time to IPad Leaves HP, Dell Looking Elsewhere
-- Ian King
-- 2010-06-16T20:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/microsoft-s-lag-time-to-apple-s-ipad-leaves-hp-dell-searching-elsewhere.html

          
          
             Microsoft Corp. ’s failure to deliver
a tablet-friendly version of Windows is forcing big computer
makers like  Hewlett-Packard Co.  and Dell Inc. to rely on rival
software to help them keep up with  Apple Inc. ’s iPad.  
 Windows 7, the most recent version of Microsoft’s operating
system, is too unwieldy for an iPad-like device, said  David Daoud , an analyst at IDC. A lighter edition won’t be ready until
the fourth quarter, giving Apple almost a year’s head start in
the burgeoning market for tablets.  
 “The Windows world needs to respond,” said Daoud, whose
firm is based in Framingham, Massachusetts. “They will have to
play catch-up.”  
 The iPad’s success caught much of the PC industry by
surprise. Within two months of the April 3 release, Apple sold 2
million iPads -- more than IDC expected for the entire tablet
industry in 2010. To catch up, Dell and Hewlett-Packard are
turning to  Google Inc. ’s Android operating system. Taiwanese
manufacturers that build most of the world’s PCs said they’re
dissatisfied with Microsoft’s current lineup.  
 “We don’t have any choice for now,” said Joseph Hsu,
chairman and president of Taipei-based manufacturer  Micro-Star
International Co. , a maker of laptops and computer parts.
Windows 7 is too powerful and consumes too much energy from
batteries, he said.  
 The iPad, which can display books, videos and the Internet
on a thin touch screen, will reach sales of 5.5 million units
this year and jump to 13 million next year, according to
 Macquarie Group Ltd.   
 ‘Feedback Is Fair’  
 John Kalkman, a vice president in the  Microsoft  division
that works with computer makers, said the feedback from PC
manufacturers is “fair.” Later this year, Microsoft will
release Windows Embedded Compact 7, which will require less
processing power and reduces the drain on batteries.  
 Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, has tried for more
than a decade to build a market for tablet-sized personal
computers. Chairman  Bill Gates  predicted in November 2001 that
the tablet would become the most popular form of PC within five
years.  
 Demand for the Windows tablets currently sold by Hewlett-
Packard and  Dell  has been lackluster, according to IDC. Before
the iPad made its debut this year, the researcher had been
forecasting that sales of tablets would decline to less than 1
percent of the overall PC market in the U.S. IDC had predicted
total shipments of just 523,000 tablets.  
 Passed by Apple  
 Microsoft , passed by Apple as the largest technology
company by market capitalization this year, fell 26 cents to
$26.32 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Palo
Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard rose 3 cents to $48.01 in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Round Rock, Texas-
based Dell declined 1 cent to $13.99 on the Nasdaq.  
 Intel Corp. , whose chips run about 80 percent of the
world’s PCs, hasn’t helped Microsoft’s cause. The chipmaker’s
most energy-efficient tablet-ready processors don’t run Windows
7 -- and won’t until early next year.  
 Hewlett-Packard spokeswoman  Marlene Somsak  declined to
comment on sales of tablets based on Microsoft software. Dell
spokesman Jake Whitman said Microsoft Windows, used in the
company’s Latitude tablets, “helps provide a flexible and
intuitive tablet-PC computing experience.”  
 Streak Product  
 Dell  will begin selling a combination smartphone and tablet
with a 5-inch (13-centimeter) screen in the U.K. this month. It
should be in the U.S. later in the summer. Called the Streak,
the device uses Android and  Qualcomm Inc. ’s Snapdragon chip.  
 Hewlett-Packard, the industry’s leader,  acquired  Palm Inc.
to gain its own operating system for portable devices. Hewlett-
Packard is also using a  Qualcomm  chip in a new Android product
called AirLife, which it began selling in Spain this year.  
 Both companies plan to continue offering Windows tablets.  
 At Micro-Star, Hsu is waiting for Windows Embedded Compact
7. It also will be compatible with ARM-designed chips, the basis
for products from  Qualcomm ,  Texas Instruments Inc.  and Nvidia
Corp. ARM’s technology also is used in the A4 processor, which
runs Cupertino, California-based Apple’s iPad.  
 Microsoft ’s Windows 7 requires a full PC processor to run
effectively. Chips of that class need a fan to keep cool and a
big battery to keep them going for longer than a few hours.  
 Atom Chips  
 Micro-Star is developing a tablet that uses Atom, an Intel
processor originally designed for low-cost netbooks. The trouble
is, it lacks the power to provide the same kind of smooth video
and Internet speeds as the iPad, Hsu said.  
 Microsoft’s Kalkman suggests manufacturers use a more
powerful chip with two processors, a setup known as dual-core.  
 Asustek Computer Inc. , the Taipei-based maker of Eee PCs,
has a Windows 7 tablet with an Intel dual-core chip. It can run
for six hours. Still, that’s about half the 10 hours offered by
the iPad.  
 Intel  plans to improve battery life by releasing a dual-
core version of Atom for tablets early next year. It will use
half the power while offering enough processing to provide
smooth video and fast Web surfing.  
 “We’re very excited about the tablet segment -- we see it
as an opportunity for Intel to expand its business,” Matthew
Parker, a product manager for Intel, said in an interview.  
 Even the next crop of products -- Windows Embedded Compact
7 and Intel’s Atom chips for tablets -- may not help the
companies achieve the dominance they’ve enjoyed in PCs, said
 Michael Gartenberg , a partner at Altimeter Group, a research
firm in San Mateo, California. Neither technology was originally
designed for tablets, he said.  
 “Because Microsoft is so entrenched in Windows, they seem
to be missing these larger opportunities,” he said. “Same for
Intel -- they’ve been very focused on the PC and PC-like
devices.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Steve Ballmer, CEO of Microsoft Corp., speaking about tablet computers during CES in Las Vegas earlier this year. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The success of Apple's iPad, leaves HP and Dell lagging behind. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Steve Ballmer, CEO of Microsoft Corp., displays a Windows-powered tablet during CES in Las Vegas earlier this year. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
