-- Milan Proving Bust for Italian Tower as Luxury Lofts Go Begging
-- Sonia Sirletti
-- 2010-06-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/milan-proving-bust-for-italy-s-tallest-building-as-luxury-lofts-go-begging.html

          
          
             Milan’s $2.6 billion  CityLife  real
estate project that includes the tallest building in Italy is
struggling to attract buyers for luxury condominiums amid a
slump in the country’s property market.  
 CityLife, billed as the biggest urban development in the
country’s business capital, has sold 90 of an initial 390
upscale apartments and penthouses in the 431,000 square-meter
(4.6 million square foot) site at the city’s former fairgrounds.
The plan’s biggest investors are insurers  Allianz SE  of Germany
and  Assicurazioni Generali SpA  in Italy.  
 “They’re flooding the market with such a large number of
high-range properties that it can’t possibly absorb, especially
in a period of economic slowdown,” said Rolando Mastrodonato,
who leads the “ Live and Design a New Milan ” residents’ group
that opposes the project.  
 The worst financial crisis in six decades caused Italy’s
residential and commercial property market to stagnate during
2008 and 2009. Real estate prices probably will fall this year,
according to  research  from Milan-based Tecnocasa Group.  
 CityLife asked Milan’s building regulators last month for
permission to scale back the office and retail space for as much
as 30 percent of the total because of the bearish outlook for
the office market. According to the initial plan, as much as 45
percent of the area had been set aside for commercial buildings.  
 ‘Lopsided’ Design  
 International architects  Daniel Libeskind ,  Zaha Hadid ,
designer of London’s Aquatic Center for the 2012 Olympics, and
Arata Isozaki designed the CityLife development, which features
three skyscrapers. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has
scoffed at the towers’ design, calling them “ lopsided .”  
 At 220 meters, Isozaki’s tower would be twice as tall as
Milan’s landmark Il Duomo cathedral. Part of the building
designed by Libeskind may be occupied by a hotel, making it the
first mixed residential and lodging structure in the country.
The  homes  will cost 1 million euros ($1.2 million) to 8 million
euros and include penthouses with floor-to-ceiling windows,
solariums and fitness areas.  
 The condominiums will have fully-automated appliances, 24-
hour security surveillance, a spa and private gardens, according
to the CityLife website. As many as 1,200 units are scheduled to
be built by 2015. The project, whose motto is “the new way of
living in the city,” will also host Milan’s Contemporary Art
Museum, which would be bigger than the  Guggenheim Museum  in New
York, said CityLife Chief Executive Officer  Claudio Artusi .  
 ‘Long-term Value’  
 He says he’s confident the development will be a success.  
 “Our investors are more concerned about long-term value
than short-term returns,” Artusi said in an interview at the
site. The project is aimed at “the top end” of the real estate
market, so “it won’t be affected by the economical cycle,” he
said.  
 Munich-based Allianz, Europe’s largest insurer, and Milan-
based Generali, No. 3 in the region, are increasing their stakes
to 31.5 percent and 41.3 percent respectively after agreeing to
purchase the interest held by Rome-based builder  Pierluigi Toti ,
one of the four original investors in CityLife.  
 Toti announced June 14 the sale of his stake for 45 million
euros because he wants to focus on projects in Rome, Italy’s
capital.  
 “Since 2005, the economic and financial environment has
radically changed,” Toti said in a statement. “Our strategy
has to adapt to the different needs and opportunities for our
company.”  
 Bank Financing  
 Reducing the number of investors in CityLife will make
decision-making easier,  Oliver Piani , CEO of  Allianz Real
Estate , said in an interview. “With the new investment, we have
now reached an optimal partnership structure,” he said.  
 Italy’s Ligresti family, owners of insurer  Fondiaria-Sai
SpA  and one of the project’s founding investors, decided not to
buy part of Toti’s holding and has an option to sell its stake
to Generali by September 2011, a Fondiaria spokeswoman said. The
Ligrestis still are backing the project, she added.  
 CityLife’s partners reached an agreement last week on 1.4
billion euros of financing from a pool of lenders led by
Eurohypo AG, Commerzbank AG’s property-lending unit, and
including Credit Agricole SA, Mediobanca SpA and UniCredit SpA.  
 “I don’t rule out further changes among the shareholders
because the project is risky and a return is possible only in
the long term,” said  Wolfram Mrowetz , who oversees 200 million
euros as chairman of investment firm Alisei SIM in Milan.
“Without strong leadership, the project may go ahead very
slowly.”  
 Expo 2015  
 The development is designed to change Milan’s skyline as
the city prepares to host Expo 2015, an international fair
that’s being held this year in Shanghai. There currently are
about 30 major residential and commercial projects in Milan,
according to data from the city’s chamber of commerce.  
 “In the next few years, building in Milan will approach 80
million cubic meters, compared with one million a year in
the last decade,” said Giuseppe Boatti, a professor of
architecture at Milan’s Polytechnic University. “That means
that the offer cannot be absorbed by demand.”  
 Milan’s Santa Giulia residential and commercial project
stalled last year after  Risanamento SpA  restructured its debt in
a court settlement, leaving luxury homes by Norman Foster,
boutiques such as Dolce & Gabbana and a green area as large as
London’s Hyde Park unfinished.  
 Daniela Percoco, an analyst at Bologna-based research firm
Nomisma, said the “broad-shouldered” investors backing
CityLife means the project won’t suffer the same fate as Santa
Giulia.  
 “CityLife doesn’t present the same risks of Santa Giulia
because it’s near the center of the city in a well developed
area,” she said. “CityLife investors are more solid.”  
 Tax Amnesty  
 Giancarlo Scotti , CEO of Generali’s real estate unit, said
the sales of the luxury homes in recent months demonstrate that
“there is rising demand for project, which is modern from both
an energy and environmental point of view.”  
 Artusi said Italians who repatriated money from abroad
under the government’s recent amnesty program may increase sales
of luxury apartments. Italians had repatriated or declared more
than 100 billion euros as of April to take advantage of an
amnesty that reduced government-imposed charges to as little as
5 percent and shielded individuals and companies from
prosecution.  
 “Our project will benefit from the tax amnesty because
there is no doubt it’s a good investment for people who have
money,” Artusi said. “Everybody knows how hard it is to find
shelter investments.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The design for CityLife towers, center, in Milan is seen in this computer generated image. Source: CityLife via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
