-- Google's Data Collection Being Probed in Illinois, Attorney General Says
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-06-16T23:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/illinois-attorney-general-says-she-s-investigating-google-data-collection.html

          
          
             Google Inc.  has been asked for
“detailed information” about its collection of data from
wireless computer networks in Massachusetts and Illinois, said
the latter state’s attorney general.  
 Attorney General  Lisa Madigan  said today in a statement she
and Massachusetts counterpart  Martha Coakley  sent a joint letter
to the Mountain View, California-based company on June 9 seeking
an accounting of what data it has collected and what Google
plans to do with that information.  
 “Illinoisans deserve those answers,” Madigan said.  
 Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
last month acknowledged that it had gathered data from open
wireless networks while it was capturing images of streets and
houses for its Street View service, a product that lets Web
users see 360-degree images of neighborhoods.  
 While doing so, Madigan said, the company’s vehicles were
also collecting “payload data” including e-mails, passwords
and browsing activity from unguarded wireless fidelity systems.  
 Connecticut Attorney General  Richard Blumenthal  yesterday
said 30 states attorneys general and their representatives last
week participated in a conference call to discuss the company’s
actions.  
 Google said today it’s continuing to work with the relevant
authorities to answer their questions and concerns.  
 “This was a mistake, but we don’t believe we did anything
illegal,” Google said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  
 Madigan said it’s “disturbing” that Google has been
collecting this data since 2007.  
 “We have asked Google to explain in detail exactly what
information it has collected and what it is doing with the
information,” she said.  
 Coakley’s spokeswoman, Emily LaGrassa, didn’t immediately
reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment after regular
business hours.  
 -- With assistance from Brian Womack in San Francisco. Editors:
 Peter Blumberg ,  Michael Hytha .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        