-- IMF Says Financial Market Instability Could Inhibit Global Economic Growth
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-06-16T16:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/imf-says-financial-market-instability-could-inhibit-global-economic-growth.html

          
          
             Financial market instability poses a
“major downside risk” to global economic growth and “urgent
action” is needed to rein in government budget deficits, the
International Monetary Fund said in a report earlier this month
to Group of 20 finance ministers.  
 “Unless promptly addressed by credible policy action,
financial market stresses could have material effects on
growth,” the IMF said in the  report  prepared for a June 4-5
meeting in Busan, South Korea, and released today.  
 The MSCI AC World Index  of equities in advanced and
developing economies has gained 6.3 percent from a 10-month low
reached on June 7. While stock indexes from the U.S. to China
have rebounded in recent weeks from their lows of the year,
investors are demanding higher interest rates on debt from
countries including Portugal and Spain.  
 Data in the U.S., Japan and the euro region signal a
“modest” economic recovery, the IMF said. The Washington-based
institution cited market moves as having a potentially negative
effect on interest rates on consumer, corporate and sovereign
debt, as well as on credit conditions.  
 “The ability of  banking  sectors to withstand funding
shocks is of particular concern,” the fund said.  
 Debt Crisis  
 Soaring bond yields in nations including Greece, Ireland
and Portugal forced the European Union last month to craft a 750
billion-euro ($924 billion) rescue package and the European
Central Bank to begin buying government bonds.  
 In the report, the IMF said Europe’s response was “timely,
and has mitigated the immediate risk of a liquidity crisis.”
Still, “policy announcements have not calmed markets” and
“the situation remains fragile, with markets looking for
implementation of cohesive policies to address underlying
solvency issues.”  
 G-20 countries must commit to medium-term fiscal tightening
plans with multiyear  targets , the IMF said. That should include
overhauling pension and health-care systems, it said. Most
advanced G-20 economies shouldn’t spend more to boost growth and
don’t need to exit stimulus policies before 2011, the IMF said.  
 Fast-growing countries from the G-20 can start tightening
now, the IMF said, recommending acting with either fiscal
measures or on monetary and exchange rate adjustment, depending
on the countries’ debt level.  
 The report included forecasts from the IMF’s latest World
Economic Outlook, revisions to which will be released in July.
“The latest financial shocks may dampen growth during the
second half of the year relative to WEO projections, at least in
some regions, possibly leading to revisions of the staff
forecast,” the report said.  
 In a June 9 interview in Istanbul, IMF Managing Director
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said he still expects global growth of
about 4.2 percent and that the European debt crisis has been
contained.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        