-- India Needs `Early Action' on Interest Rates, Prime Minister's Aide Says
-- Unni Krishnan
-- 2010-06-16T11:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/india-needs-early-action-on-interest-rates-manmohan-singh-s-aide-says.html

          
          
             India’s central bank should increase
interest rates soon, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh’s  top
economic adviser said, after inflation unexpectedly accelerated.  
 “I think early action is called for on the part of
monetary authorities,”  Chakravarthy Rangarajan , 78, chairman of
the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said in an
interview in New Delhi today following a 10.16 percent rise in
the benchmark wholesale-price  inflation rate  in May.  
 The comments came as Indian bonds advanced the most in more
than a week on speculation Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  will
refrain from raising interest rates because of a cash crunch
with lenders. Telecommunication companies including  Bharti
Airtel Ltd.  paid $14.5 billion of license fees for third-
generation phone services, causing a shortage of money at banks.  
 “It is a matter of time before interest rates are hiked,”
said  N.R. Bhanumurthy , an economist at the New Delhi-based
National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. “Inflationary
expectations are much stronger than what the Reserve Bank of
India would have expected.”  
 India’s 10-year government bond yield declined 6 basis
points to 7.60 percent at 3:40 p.m. in Mumbai today. The
 Sensitive Index  rose 0.3 percent to 17,462.87, while the rupee
climbed 0.1 percent to 46.53 against the dollar.  
 Cash Crunch  
 Overnight  interbank rates  advanced as much as 5.40 percent,
higher than the 5.25 percent at which lenders borrow from the
central bank, indicating a shortage of cash with Indian lenders.  
 Subbarao, who has increased rates twice since mid-March by
a quarter percentage point each time, last month was forced to
ease rules until July 2 to boost liquidity.  
 The central bank said lenders can raise more cash by
cutting their debt holdings by as much as 0.5 percentage point
below the minimum regulatory requirement of 25 percent of
deposits.  
 The Reserve Bank’s benchmark  reverse repurchase rate  is
3.75 percent. The next monetary policy announcement is scheduled
for July 27.  
 “The markets should expect, given the inflationary
situation in the economy, some rises in the policy rates,” said
Rangarajan, who served as India’s central bank governor between
1992 and 1997.  
 Subbarao’s Options  
 Rangarajan said Subbarao has two options to choose from
while deciding the course of boosting borrowing costs.  
 “One is to wait and raise the rates in a steep way later,
and the other, is to move the rates up in several small steps,”
Rangarajan said. “It is a good procedure to follow to raise
rates in small steps.”  
 Inflation is gaining strength in India and China, Asia’s
fastest-growing major economies, as consumer demand rises.  
 Factory production jumped 17.6 percent in India in April.
China’s consumer-price inflation rate advanced 3.1 percent in
May, the quickest pace in 19 months, highlighting overheating
risks in the economy.  
 Industrial output  and inflation data released in India over
the past week are adding pressure on the Reserve Bank to tighten
rates after it focused on reviving growth as Europe’s debt
crisis surfaced.  
 Inflation is a bigger threat to India’s economy than
Europe’s debt woes,  K.C. Chakrabarty , a deputy governor at the
central bank said yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        