-- EU to Target Iran's Oil, Gas Industries in Widened Sanctions
-- James G. Neuger
-- 2010-06-16T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/iran-s-oil-gas-industries-will-be-targeted-by-eu-for-widened-sanctions.html

          
          
             European Union governments will
target Iran’s oil and gas industries in backing U.S. calls for
widened sanctions against the Iranian nuclear program, a draft
EU declaration said.  
 European penalties will hit “key sectors of the gas and
oil industry with prohibition of new investment, technical
assistance and transfers of technologies, equipment and
services,” according to a statement prepared for today’s EU
summit.  
 Last week’s United Nations resolution called for
restrictions on financial transactions with Iran, a tighter arms
embargo and authority to seize cargo potentially usable in
nuclear weapons or missiles. It didn’t mandate curbs on Iran’s
energy industries.  
 Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  yesterday threatened
“severe retaliation” against countries that slap sanctions on
the atomic activities, suspected by the U.S. and its allies as
paving the way for Iran to join the nuclear-weapons club.  
 Draft Iranian legislation would require the government to
strike back at attempts to inspect Iranian ships in Strait of
Hormuz, the route taken by 20 percent of the world’s  oil , said
 Kazem Jalali , spokesman for the parliament’s National Security
and Foreign Policy Committee.  
 Iran has ignored three previous sets of UN Security Council
sanctions against the nuclear research, which it says is
intended for energy production to support a growing population.  
 Asset Freeze  
 Passed on June 9 in a 12-2 vote with one abstention, the
latest resolution also freezes the assets of 40 companies, banks
and government agencies, and bars foreign travel by Javad
Rahiqi, head of a branch of the Atomic Energy Organization of
Iran.  
 While silent on possible energy sanctions, the resolution
leaves the door open for curbs on Iran’s oil and gas output by
noting the “potential connection” between oil revenue and the
financing of the nuclear operations.  
 Europe’s sanctions, going beyond the letter of the UN
resolution, will focus on “refining, liquefaction and liquid
natural-gas technology,” according to the EU draft, which may
be modified at the meeting of leaders in Brussels.  
 In line with the UN accord, EU governments will also target
“dual use” goods with potential military applications and
trade insurance, while imposing additional curbs on Iranian
banks and the cargo operations run by the Islamic Republic of
Iran Shipping Line.  
 Britain led the push within Europe for tighter sanctions,
with Foreign Secretary  William Hague  calling on the EU on June
14 “to increase the legitimate pressure on Iran, to look at
what can be done in terms of investment in oil and gas in
Iran.”  
 Ahmadinejad said yesterday Iran is ready to resume talks on
the nuclear issue, while saying that “the conditions of
dialogue have changed.” That leaves the door open for
negotiations offered on June 14 by EU foreign policy chief
 Catherine Ashton , the international community’s liaison on the
nuclear program.  
 While calling for a “diplomatic solution,” the EU draft
also said it is time for Iran to engage in “serious
negotiation.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        