-- Israeli Economy Grows 3.6% in First Quarter, Higher Than Earlier Estimate
-- Calev Ben-David
-- 2010-06-16T11:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/israeli-economy-grows-3-6-in-first-quarter-higher-than-earlier-estimate.html

          
          
             Israel’s  economy expanded  an
annualized 3.6 percent in the first quarter, more than reported
earlier.  
 The growth rate slowed from 4.5 percent in the previous
three months, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics 
said today in a report on its website. The bureau had previously
reported first-quarter growth of 3.3 percent.  
 “I think exports in the first quarter were stronger than
reflected in that first initial estimate,”  Jonathan Katz , a
Jerusalem-based economist for HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a
telephone interview.  
 The economy is expected to grow by between 3.5 percent and
3.9 percent this year, State Budget Director  Udi Nisan  said in a
June 3 interview. “The uncertainty is quite high because of
what is happening in Europe,” he said.  
 Israel’s rebound from the global financial crisis has been
powered by exports, which make up almost 50 percent of gross
domestic product. The recovery began in the second quarter of
last year, when the economy expanded 1.4 percent. Growth picked
up in the third quarter to 3.9 percent.  
 Exports for the first quarter increased an annualized 7.4
percent, compared with a previously reported decline of 7.3
percent, the statistics bureau said today.  
 Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz  on June 8 unveiled a
program to boost the technology industry, which accounts for
about 40 percent of exports. The steps range from a plan to
bring expatriate scientists back to Israeli universities, to tax
benefits for investors.  
 Rising Index  
 Nice Systems Ltd.,  the maker and exporter of digital-
recording surveillance products, said first-quarter revenue rose
17 percent year-over-year to $162.6 million.  
 Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 index  rose 0.2 percent to 1,109.87
at 1:40 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The index has surged about 30 percent
in the past 12 months, led by  Delek Drilling-LP  and  Avner Oil &
Gas Ltd. , which have about doubled. The two companies are
partners in the Tamar gas field off Israel’s coast.  
 Central bank Governor  Stanley Fischer  left the  benchmark
interest rate  unchanged for a second month at 1.5 percent on May
24, as growth slowed and the European debt crisis threatened to
hinder the global recovery.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        