-- Italian Budget Cuts Threaten Loan Repayments From Wind, Solar Power Plants
-- Alex Morales
-- 2010-06-16T15:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/italian-budget-cuts-threaten-loan-repayments-from-wind-solar-power-plants.html

          
          
             The Italian government’s planned
cuts for renewable power incentives threaten 5.5 billion euros
($6.8 billion) of loans made to wind and solar companies, the
head of the Association of Foreign Banks in Italy said.  
 The proposal, approved last month by the government as part
of a package of measures to reduce the budget deficit by 24
billion euros of spending, would scrap guaranteed prices paid to
owners of so-called green certificates, representing power
generated without emitting greenhouse gases.  Guido Rosa , head of
the banking association, said the cuts threaten loan repayments.  
 “If the proposal is approved, I will have problems paying
my employees and repaying my debts to the banks,” Carlo
Durante, chief executive officer of Theolia SA’s Milan-based
wind unit Maestrale Green Energy, said in a telephone interview.
“From next year, we will have to rethink our business plan and
may have to reduce the workforce.”  
 The proposal threatens wind and solar investments as Italy
aims to meet its  European target  of drawing 17 percent of its
energy needs from renewable energy sources by 2020, an increase
from 5.2 percent in 2005, according to the European Commission.
Spain and Germany also are trimming renewable power incentives
after subsidies triggered a boom in plant construction.  
 “With the removal of the incentives, companies risk being
left in a position where they can’t repay debts contracted with
the banks,” Rosa said today in a telephone interview from
Milan. “Everything should be left as it is until the projects
reach their natural conclusion.”  
 About two-thirds of the 5.5 billion euros of loans to
renewable energy projects in Italy come from foreign banks, Rosa
said.  
 Scrapping Guarantees  
 Under Italian regulations, utilities such as  Enel SpA  and
Edison SpA are awarded green certificates representing megawatt-
hours of power generated from renewable energy. They must meet
targets that rise every year. They can sell excess certificates
to other companies.  
 If demand isn’t sufficient, the government body that
promotes clean power, the  Gestore Servizi Energetici , is
required to buy surplus certificates at a guaranteed price. It’s
that guarantee the government is seeking to scrap.  
 “It may damage investment in renewable energy,” Roberto
Giacomelli, manager of climate change and sustainability
services in Italy for the accounting firm Ernst & Young, said in
a telephone interview. He said analyses need to be carried out
before the incentives are scrapped. “At this point, if you
produce renewable energy you’re assured you can sell green
certificates. That will not be certain in the future.”  
 Cost of Plan  
 Maestrale’s Durante said he’s already stopped 150 million
euros of investments planned for 2010.  
 “How can I ask investors and potential partners to support
our investment if there is no return from them?” Durante said.
“I expect that revenue in the wind business will be halved if
the law is to be approved.”  
 The measure cost about 630 million euros in 2008 and is
estimated to cost about 600 million euros this year, according
to the government  proposal . Scrapping the measure would also cut
customer electricity bills by 500 million to 600 million euros,
the government said.  
 “The provision will change the remuneration of companies
in the sector, blowing up many business plans that were based on
the incentive,” Carlo Stagnaro, head of research at Istituto
Bruno Leoni, an energy and environment analyst, said in an
interview from Turin.  
 In 2010, companies that generate power from fossil fuels
must make sure 5.3 percent of the electricity they feed into the
grid comes from renewable sources, Livia Catena, a spokeswoman
for Gestore Servizi Energetici, said in an e-mail. The
proportion rises by 0.75 percent a year, she said.  
 “In the next year the amount of renewable energy that will
have to be produced or purchased as green certificates will
rise, and that means demand will rise,” Giacomelli said. “It’s
not certain that there will be a shortage in demand” that would
require the Gestore Servizi Energetici to buy extra credits.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        