-- Mitsubishi Motors Wins Appeal of $10.9 Million Rollover Verdict in Florida
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-06-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/mitsubishi-motors-wins-appeal-of-10-9-million-rollover-verdict-in-florida.html

          
          
             Mitsubishi Motors Corp.  won reversal
of a $10.9 million jury verdict awarded in 2008 to the family of
a Florida man who died in a rollover accident.  
 Scott Laliberte, 25, was killed in September 2004 when the
seat back collapsed and he was partly ejected from a 2000
Mitsubishi Nativa. His family claimed defects in the seat back
and seat belt. In February 2008, a West Palm Beach, Florida,
jury found a defect in the Nativa caused Laliberte’s death.  
 Florida’s Fourth District Court of Appeal yesterday ordered
a new trial, finding that the Tokyo, Japan-based automaker was
unfairly prevented from putting on evidence of seat-belt and
seat-back tests by the company’s expert witnesses.  
 “When the trial court excluded Mitsubishi’s demonstrative
evidence, its expert’s opinions were barren and unsubstantiated.
The trial court’s error was not harmless,” the court said
yesterday.  
 “Our experts were allowed to offer opinions but they
weren’t allowed to show the reasons behind the opinions,”
Mitsubishi lawyer Scott Paxton said yesterday in an interview.
This “reduced their credibility” to the jury, he said.  
 No new trial date has been set, Paxton said. The Laliberte
family is likely to appeal the decision, he said.  
 Don Fountain, the family’s attorney, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment yesterday.  
 The lawsuit is Laliberte v. Mitsubishi Motors Corp.,
CA 05-6369, Circuit Court, Palm Beach County, Florida (West Palm
Beach). The appellate case is Mitsubishi v. Laliberte, 4DO8-
2211, Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        