-- Japan's Euro-Related Stocks Among Best Bargains, Schroder's Maeda Says
-- Toshiro Hasegawa
-- 2010-06-16T02:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/japan-s-euro-related-stocks-among-best-bargains-schroder-s-maeda-says.html

          
          
             Japanese companies that export to
Europe, such as  Ricoh Co.  and Konica Minolta Holdings Inc., are
among the nation’s cheapest stocks relative to profit outlook,
said Schroder Investment Management (Japan) Ltd.  
 Ricoh, a copier maker that gets 23 percent of its sales in
Europe, dropped 18 percent from April 30 to June 15 amid
concerns debt crises in some euro-zone countries will spread and
stall the region’s recovery. In the same period, Konica Minolta,
a maker of film used in liquid-crystal displays that counts
Europe as its  biggest market , lost 19 percent, while the MSCI
World Index fell 7.5 percent.  
 “There are still concerns about the euro, but it should
come back from recent declines, which were caused by market
over-reactions,”  Shogo Maeda , head of Japanese equities at
Schroder Investment in Tokyo, said today. “Some exporter shares
are oversold, considering the earnings outlooks. The global
economy is still on a recovery trend.”  
 The euro declined to as low as 108.06 yen on June 7 from
its April high of 127.75. Since then it has climbed 2.6 percent.
A weaker euro reduces income for exporters when repatriated.  
 Ricoh shares are valued at 20.3 times estimated earnings,
compared with 25.9 times reached on April 2, the highest level
this fiscal year. Konica Minolta’s price earnings ratio fell to
17.6 times from the high of 23.3 times on April 27.  
 “There are good opportunities for bargain hunting,” said
Maeda, who helps manages 678 billion yen ($7.4 billion) at
Schroder. “Shares have fallen enough to create upside
potential.”  
 Nintendo Cheap  
 Nintendo Co. , the world’s biggest maker of portable video-
game players that earns 40 percent of its revenue in Europe, is
cheap now because the downside risks of its earnings have been
priced in since its profit peaked at 279 billion yen in the year
ended March 2009, Maeda said.  
 Among carmakers,  Honda Motor Co.  has attractive valuations,
he said. Honda shares are valued at 12.7 times estimated
earnings, lower than 21.8 times for Toyota Motor Corp. and 13.5
times for Nissan Motor Co.  
 An HSBC Holdings Plc quarterly fund managers survey for the
April-to-June period showed 56 percent of fund managers hold
underweight position on Europe equities amid the region’s debt
crisis, higher than 40 percent in the previous quarter. The
percentage who were underweight on Japanese equities rose to 63
percent in the second quarter from 50 percent in the preceding
period.  
 Maeda also recommended trading companies including
Mitsubishi Corp.,  Mitsui & Co.  and Itochu Corp. as candidates to
buy.  
 “Over the long term, stocks of trading firms are
attractive,” said Maeda. “Demand for natural resources cannot
decline because resources are limited while the population will
increase.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .
 Toshiro Hasegawa  in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        