-- Japan Wind Plunges a Second Day After Bourse Puts Stock Under Surveillance
-- Tsuyoshi Inajima
-- 2010-06-16T07:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/japan-wind-to-fall-a-second-day-after-bourse-puts-stock-under-surveillance.html

          
          
             Japan Wind Development Co. , the
 worst performer  on the 88-member WilderHill New Energy Global
Innovation Index in the last year, plunged a second day after
the stock was put under surveillance by the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 The  shares  dropped by 30,000 yen, or 21 percent, to 113,600,
the lowest close since at least 2003. Yesterday they sank 40,000
yen, or 22 percent, after the stock was placed on the so-called
monitoring post for possible delisting.  
 Japan Wind is likely to miss a June 30 deadline to file an
annual securities report because it changed its auditor, the
company said in a June 14 filing. If it fails to submit the
report within a month of the deadline, the shares will be
delisted, the bourse said in a statement the same day.  
 Japan Wind  dismissed  Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC  after the
auditor rejected the findings of an internal investigation,
according to the filing. Japan Wind had set up a committee of
outside experts to look into three memoranda an employee wrote
to clients undertaking to supply turbines and batteries without
the company’s approval.  
 The committee found that the memos weren’t legally binding
and didn’t pose inventory or procurement risks, according to the
statement.  
 ‘Contradictory Explanations’  
 “Given changing and contradictory explanations, our doubts
about the facts regarding the memos haven’t been resolved,”
Ernst & Young ShinNihon said in a statement sent to Japan Wind
and released by the stock exchange after trading closed today.
“We repeatedly asked the company for explanations and to take
appropriate measures, including reviewing its earnings” for the
year ended March 2010.  
 Calls to Tokyo-based  Japan Wind  seeking further details
yesterday and today weren’t returned. The shares have slid 55
percent this year  compared  with the 4.5 percent retreat in the
benchmark Nikkei 225 index.  
 “It’s hard to see when the shares will reach bottom as
there is the potential risk of being delisted,”  Tomoaki Kawasaki , an analyst at Cosmo Securities Co., said by phone from
Tokyo. “The market doesn’t like a company whose management may
have a systematic problem like this.”  
 Japan Wind has appointed Yayoi Audit Corp. to replace Ernst
& Young ShinNihon. The company will hold an extraordinary
shareholders meeting to discuss the securities report July 29,
according a statement June 14.  
 Companies are required to file an audited securities report
to Japan’s finance ministry providing details including assets,
earnings, and number of employees within three months of the end
of the financial year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        