-- Jobs Bill Blocked in U.S. Senate Amid Complaints Over Cost
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-06-16T19:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/job-creation-legislation-blocked-in-u-s-senate-amid-complaints-over-cost.html

          
          
             A jobs bill that would raise taxes
on buyout managers stalled today in the U.S. Senate amid
complaints it would add almost $80 billion to the government’s
budget deficit.  
 With 60 votes needed to advance the legislation, 52
senators  voted  against the procedural move and 45 supported it.
Eleven Democrats and independent  Joe Lieberman  of Connecticut
joined 40 Republicans in opposing the motion.  
 The defeat was anticipated by Democratic leaders; they
agreed last night that if the measure failed, Senate Finance
Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  would present a less costly
substitute plan. Baucus said he will unveil his revised proposal
later today.  
 The vote is a setback for President  Barack Obama , who
called last week for an additional $50 billion in jobs-related
spending. Lawmakers are increasingly caught between competing
demands to spend more to boost the economy and cut the $1.5
trillion deficit. Baucus urged colleagues yesterday to back the
legislation, saying that poorly timed belt-tightening could tip
the economy back into recession.  
 Provisions  
 The blocked bill would extend unemployment benefits through
November, increase taxes on the share of profits paid to
managers of buyout funds, extend subsidies for municipal bonds,
boost taxes on oil companies and extend aid to state governments
struggling to stay within their budgets, among other provisions.  
 Unemployment benefits for more than 300,000 Americans have
lapsed while lawmakers debate the legislation.  
 After declining to move forward on a vote on the overall
bill, lawmakers agreed to attach a provision to it that would
extend by three months -- to September 30 -- the deadline for
closing home purchases under the government’s homebuyer tax-
credit program. The amendment passed 60-37.  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
lawmakers were concerned many homebuyers could miss the existing
June 30 deadline while waiting for banks to process a backlog of
transactions.  
 Lawmakers are considering cutting the bill’s cost by
trimming weekly unemployment benefits by $25 to an average $310,
a move estimated to save $6 billion.  
 Paring Benefits  
 Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat, said
lawmakers want to begin paring the extended unemployment
benefits created in response to the recession because “this is
not something that can go on indefinitely.”  
 McCaskill said that “if you don’t start having those
discussions then it begins to look like a brand-new level of
entitlement program, which is something that we really can’t
afford to do right now in this country.”  
 Lawmakers may also shorten the length of a reprieve for
doctors from a scheduled 21 percent cut in the Medicare
reimbursements.  
 Democrats had already scaled back the bill after colleagues
complained a previous draft would have cost almost $200 billion.
House Democratic leaders last month dropped plans to extend
subsidies to help the jobless buy health insurance and send
another $24 billion to states before forwarding the measure to
the Senate.  
 Obama called last weekend for the increased spending,
saying inaction could force states to fire hundreds of thousands
of employees.  
 “If we allow these layoffs to go forward, it will not only
mean hundreds of thousands fewer teachers in our classrooms,
firefighters on call and police officers on the beat, it will
also mean most costs helping these Americans look for new work,
while their lost paychecks will mean less tax revenues and less
demand for the products and services provided by other
workers,” Obama said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jobs Bill Blocked in U.S. Senate Amid Complaints Over Cost  
                       
                         
                           Jay Mallin/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Senator Max Baucus is expected to present a less expensive plan to substitute the blocked jobs bill. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Senator Max Baucus is expected to present a less expensive plan to substitute the blocked jobs bill. Photographer: Jay Mallin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
