-- Jordan Considers International Bond Sale to Fund Projects, Minister Says
-- Massoud A. Derhally
-- 2010-06-16T05:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/jordan-considers-international-bond-sale-to-fund-projects-minister-says.html

          
          
             Jordan may sell bonds
internationally to help the government with its finances and
take advantage of low borrowing costs, Finance Minister  Mohammad Abu Hammour  said.  
 The sale of conventional or Islamic bonds, known as sukuk,
“will provide a new window to finance the government’s needs,”
Abu-Hammour said in  statement , carried by the state-run  Petra
news agency .  
 “At the same time, it will not compete with the private
sector for domestic liquidity available in the local market and
allows banks to finance more projects, which would reflect
positively on the economy,” he said.  
 Jordan, which imports more than 90 percent of its oil,
typically relies on foreign investment and grants to finance
deficits in the budget and the current account. Foreign grants
fell 54 percent to 333.4 million dinars ($470 million) last
year, according to preliminary figures released by the Finance
Ministry on Feb. 28.  
 The 2009 budget deficit widened to 1.44 billion dinars,
from 692.7 million the previous year, excluding non-recurring
revenue from the sale of land in 2008.  
 The projected budget deficit for this year after grants is
685 million dinars, or 3.9 percent of gross domestic product.
Without the grants, the deficit is forecast at 1.02 billion
dinars.  
 Jordan in Talks  
 Jordan is in “talks with a number of relevant parties who
would manage and market such bonds in a manner that serves the
national economy,” Abu Hammour said. “The time is ripe to take
advantage,” of low interest rates in global financial markets,
which “may change in the near future,” he added.  
 The country will need to make necessary legislative
amendments to sell Islamic sukuk and the government is currently
working to remove any constraints, Abu-Hammour said.  
 Jordan’s foreign  debt  decreased by 1.2 percent to 3.82
billion dinars in the first four months of the year, according
to a  preliminary report  by the  Ministry of Finance . Domestic
 debt  increased 1.9 percent to 5.9 billion dinars.  
 Foreign grants more than doubled in the first four months
of the year to 103.6 million dinars, from 44.3 million dinars in
the same period in 2009. The kingdom’s budget deficit narrowed
to 30.4 million dinars in the four months after receipt of the
grants, compared with a deficit of 325.8 million dinars the year
earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        