-- JPMorgan Sued by Assured Guaranty Over Payments for Alabama Sewer Bonds
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-06-16T21:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/jpmorgan-sued-by-assured-guaranty-over-payments-for-alabama-sewer-bonds.html

          
          
             JPMorgan Chase & Co.  was sued by
insurer  Assured Guaranty Ltd.  to recover all claims the
guarantor might have to pay on $378 million of coverage provided
for sewer bonds issued by  Jefferson County, Alabama .  
 Assured, the top U.S. municipal debt insurer by volume,
said in a lawsuit filed today in New York State Supreme court in
Manhattan that New York-based JPMorgan concealed about $3
million in illegal payments to friends of county commissioners
to ensure it won business with the county. Some of the payments
were then funneled to the officials, the complaint said.  
 “Had JPMorgan and the county not misrepresented and
concealed from Assured the true facts regarding the unlawful
payments that JPMorgan made to secure its position as lead
underwriter for the warrants and swap provider for the county,
Assured never would have issued the policies,” the lawsuit
said.  
 Assured Guaranty is the second bond insurer to sue JPMorgan
over a $3 billion refinancing of sewer debt that collapsed
during the credit crisis and almost bankrupted the county.
Syncora Guaranty Inc. sued JPMorgan and thee county on April 29
alleging they fraudulently obtained more than $1 billion in
insurance coverage for the sewer bonds.  
 Brian Marchiony , a JPMorgan spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call and e-mail seeking comment.  
 JPMorgan arranged the refinancing of the Jefferson County
sewer system in 2002 and 2003, converting the district’s fixed-
rate debt -- issued so the sewer system was able to comply with
a 1996 federal consent decree -- into floating-rate bonds.  
 The obligations were paired with more than $5 billion of
interest-rate swaps, meant to lock in lower borrowing costs.  
 Credit Ratings  
 The financing fell apart in 2008 when the companies
guaranteeing the debt lost their top credit ratings because of
losses on unrelated mortgage-backed securities.  
 In January 2008 Jefferson County’s interest costs soared
more than threefold to 10 percent.  
 Financial Security Assurance Holdings Inc ., which was
acquired by Assured Guaranty in July 2009, provided insurance to
the county, which according to the lawsuit included $352 million
of the sewer bonds and a $26.4 million surety bond. Assured has
paid more than $4 million on the surety bond, the suit said.  
 Last year, JPMorgan agreed to a  $722 million settlement 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to end a probe
into the sale of bonds and derivatives to Jefferson County. The
SEC  sued  two former JPMorgan bankers for making undisclosed
payments to friends of county commissioner who owned or worked
at local securities firms that didn’t do any work on the deals.  
 One of those friends,  William Blount , the former chairman
of a Montgomery, Alabama, broker dealer, pleaded guilty to
paying $241,000 in bribes to former Jefferson County Commission
president  Larry Langford . Langford, who later became the mayor
of Birmingham, is serving a 15-year sentence in a federal prison
in Kentucky after being convicted of on bribery and fraud
charges.  
 The case is Assured Guranty Municipal Corp. F/K/A/
Financial Security Assurance Inc., V. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
650642, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan)  
 For Related News and Information:
Top municipal bond news: MUNT <GO>
Municipal bond news from Alabama: TNI AL MUN BN <GO>
For top legal news: TOP LAW <GO>  
          
          


  


        