-- Junk-Bond Sales Slow With Yields Close to Highs for Year: New Bond Alert
-- Tim Catts
-- 2010-06-16T08:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/junk-bond-sales-slow-with-yields-close-to-highs-for-year-new-bond-alert.html

          
          
             The fewest companies in 15 months
sold junk bonds in June as yields hover near their 2010 highs.  
 Spectrum Brands Inc.  issued $750 million of notes to help
pay for its acquisition of Russell Hobbs Inc. and TransUnion
Corp. sold $645 million of debt to finance Madison Dearborn
LLC’s purchase of a majority stake in it, among six junk bond
sales this month totaling $2.83 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Companies are waiting to tap the corporate bond market amid
signs that the U.S. economy hasn’t been hurt by Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis, said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.
Relative yields on company debt have fallen from their 2009
peak, signaling credit markets aren’t closed, he said.  
 “Are issuers choosing not to sell debt, or are they unable
to sell debt?” LeBas wrote in a note to clients on June 14.
“On balance, we tend to believe the former is true, as metrics
of financial conditions are far more relaxed today than at this
time in 2009.”  
 Junk-bond yields fell 8 basis points to 9.32 percent
yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index data show. They
reached a high this year of 9.49 percent on Feb. 12 before
falling in April to 8.23 percent, the lowest since July 2007,
the index data show.  
 Spreads Narrow  
 The extra yield investors demand to own high-yield, high-
risk debt instead of Treasuries narrowed to 703 basis points
from 716 basis points yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. They have tightened 11.83 percentage
points since hitting 18.86 percentage points on March 9, 2009,
the index data show.  
 High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  
 This month’s speculative-grade bond sales compare with a
monthly average of 51.8 in 2010 and a March peak of 82,
Bloomberg data show. Seven companies sold high-yield debt in
March 2009, the data show.  
 OAO Mobile TeleSystems , Russia’s largest mobile-phone
company, sold $750 million of 10-year notes yesterday through
its MTS International Funding Ltd. unit, the first sale of high-
yield bonds since June 10, Bloomberg data show. It was the
company’s first U.S.-dollar denominated debt offering since
January 2005, the data show.  
 Factory output in the region covered by Federal Reserve
Bank of New York grew at an increased pace in June, according to
the bank’s so-called Empire State index, signaling manufacturers
are weathering the turmoil caused by the European debt crisis.  
 Investment-Grade Spreads  
 Spreads on investment-grade corporate debt were unchanged
at 211 basis points yesterday, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. Corporate Master Index shows. They reached 213 basis
points, the widest this year, on June 10, the data show.  
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. sold $2.5 billion of
debt in a three-part transaction, Lincoln National Corp. issued
$750 million of bonds to help repay a government rescue and Pall
Corp. sold $375 million of notes after boosting the size of its
offering, Bloomberg data show.  
 This week’s $7.38 billion of corporate bond sales compare
with $1.77 billion during the similar period a week earlier,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Following is a description of the $4.9 billion pending
sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Investment Grade  
 CHILE plans to sell $1 billion of 10-year bonds, along with
warrants and peso debt, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Chile will use the proceeds
for general purposes, the filing said. The country, which hasn’t
sold international bonds in six years, is seeking financing for
repairs after a Feb. 27 earthquake and subsequent tsunami killed
more than 400 people and caused as much as $30 billion of
damage.  
 DOHA BANK QSC , Qatar’s third-largest bank, plans to sell
senior notes in dollars, the lender said in a statement on the
Qatari bourse, without disclosing the size of the offering.  
 FORETHOUGHT FINANCIAL GROUP INC. plans to sell $150 million
of 10-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. S&P assigned the notes a grade of BBB- in a March 24
report.  
 Not Rated  
 The PROVINCE OF CORDOBA, Argentina, plans to sell as much
as $350 million of bonds in international markets once the
federal government completes a restructuring of defaulted debt,
Banco de Cordoba said.  
 SENSIENT TECHNOLOGIES CORP.  said it entered into an
agreement with a group of four financial institutions for the
issuance of $110 million in fixed-rate, senior notes, according
to a Nov. 19 statement distributed by Business Wire. The company
plans to issue seven-year debt to repay existing indebtedness,
Sensient said in a March 1 regulatory filing.  
 High Yield  
 TITLEMAX HOLDINGS LLC, the automobile title lending
company, plans to sell $225 million of five-year senior secured
first-lien notes, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. Proceeds will be used to repay outstanding debt,
said the person, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The issue is expected to be rated B2 by Moody’s and
B+ by S&P, the person said.  
 AKBANK TAS , the Turkish bank part-owned by Citigroup Inc.,
plans to sell five-year, dollar-denominated eurobonds worth up
to $1 billion, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock
Exchange.  
 CEDAR FAIR ENTERTAINMENT CO. , the operator of amusement
parks that called off a takeover by an Apollo Management LP
affiliate, said it plans to sell $500 million of senior
unsecured notes due in 2020. Proceeds will be used to repay
existing debt, the Sandusky, Ohio-based company said in a May 20
statement distributed by PR Newswire.  
 WILLBROS GROUP INC.  plans to sell $250 million of six-year
notes and seek a $50 million term loan to help pay for its
acquisition of InfrastruX Group Inc., according to a company
statement distributed by Marketwire. Willbros will also use 7.9
million shares of its stock and cash on hand to pay for the
acquisition, it said in the statement. Moody’s rates the notes
B3 and S&P ranks them B+.  
 IRSA INVERSIONES Y REPRESENTACIONES SA , Argentina’s biggest
real-estate company, extended an offer to sell $250 million in
10-year bonds until June 24, the company said in a regulatory
filing in Buenos Aires on June 14. S&P assigned the notes a
grade of B-, six steps below investment quality.  
 CAPELLA HEALTHCARE INC., the hospital operator backed by
private-equity firm GTCR Golder Rauner LLC, Capella plans to
sell $500 million of seven-year notes, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. Proceeds will be used to
refinance Capella’s existing first-lien credit facilities and
second-lien term loan, Moody’s Investors Service said in a
report.  
 TITAN INTERNATIONAL INC. , the maker of tire and wheel
systems for off-highway equipment, said it plans to sell at
least $150 million of senior unsecured notes. Proceeds will be
used to repurchase the 8 percent senior unsecured notes due in
2012 and for general corporate purposes, the Quincy, Illinois-
based company said in a May 13 statement distributed by Business
Wire.  
 INVENTIV HEALTH INC. , the provider of sales and marketing
services to science companies that is being acquired by Thomas
H. Lee Partners, may sell $275 million of senior notes to back
the purchase, it said in a regulatory filing.  
 CITGO PETROLEUM CORP., a U.S.-based unit of Petroleos de
Venezuela SA, plans to sell $1.5 billion of secured notes due in
2017 and 2020, according to a person familiar with the offering.
S&P assigned the notes a grade of BB+, one step below
investment-grade quality.  
 Offerings in Pipeline  
 URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a LatinFinance conference in
London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of 20
years or more, Steneri said.  
 MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire the same banks,
including CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc, to
arrange the sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to
be named as the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25
billion from its first Shariah-compliant dollar bond in eight
years on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  
 INDOSAT PALAPA CO. , a unit of Indonesia’s second-largest
phone operator, delayed a planned dollar bond sale until market
conditions improve, a person familiar with the matter said May
26. Indosat began meetings with investors in Asia, the U.S. and
Europe on May 12 to gauge demand for a global bond sale,
according to a company statement sent to the Indonesian stock
exchange that day. Moody’s assigned a provisional Ba1 rating to
the notes and S&P rated them BB, one step lower.  
 SABIC CAPITAL , a unit of Saudi Basic Industries Corp.,
delayed a bond sale because of unfavorable spreads, Chief
Financial Officer Mutlaq al-Morished said. The bond offer
received more than $1 billion in investor interest, he said in a
May 26 telephone interview. The spreads were “not what we
wanted,” he said. Sabic Capital had hired HSBC Holdings Plc,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to
sell a benchmark-sized bond, al-Morished said in a May 17
telephone interview.  
 GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond next
year to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production
boosts economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy
Finance Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government is considering
a “no-deal roadshow” as early as the fourth quarter to gauge
international investors’ appetite, Kwetey said in a May 26
interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its first global bond in 2007,
raising $750 million to help fund the construction of roads and
power plants.  
 ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds this
year. The southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated
at B+ by S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade.
Moody’s assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  
 EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORP. , a London-based iron ore
and alumina producer with operations in China and Russia, said
it delayed its first dollar bond sale. The company is
“postponing meetings with investors regarding a potential bond
issuance under its Euro Medium Term Note program until further
notice,” Charlotte Kirkham, a spokeswoman for ENRC, said in an
e-mail. The company had hired Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley to manage the sale, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  
 KAZAKHSTAN plans to sell between $500 million and $750
million in bonds to investors abroad in the autumn, Kazakh
Finance Minister  Bolat Zhamishev  said in a May 14 interview. The
bonds will probably be denominated in dollars and will be used
to set a benchmark for corporate borrowing, Zhamishev said.  
 QATARI DIAR REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT CO. may raise about $1.5
billion by selling global bonds backed by Qatar, according to a
person familiar with the sale plan. The developer may offer 10-
year conventional bonds and 5-year Islamic securities, said the
person who declined to be identified because details of the
transaction haven’t been completed. HSBC Holdings Plc and
Barclays Capital are among banks expected to manage the sale,
according to the person.  
 CREDIT EUROPE BANK LTD.  plans to sell three-year bonds in
dollars, according to people with knowledge of the sale. The
notes may be priced to yield 7.75 percent to 8 percent, the
people said. Citigroup Inc. is managing the sale.  
 CHINA ORIENTAL GROUP CO.  plans to sell senior notes to
provide working capital and possibly to finance the purchase of
steel mills and iron ore assets in China. Deutsche Bank AG will
manage the sale with ING Groep NV, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  
 OAO SBERBANK  , Russia’s biggest lender, may sell $1 billion
of dollar-denominated bonds for the first time in two years when
debt markets improve, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Anton
Karamzin said. Sberbank will consider selling $1 billion of
“five-year senior unsecured” notes to establish a benchmark
“if the price is right,” Karamzin said. Sberbank hired DZ Bank
AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to
organize meetings with bond investors, a banker involved in the
transaction said April 29.  
 BANK FOR INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF VIETNAM received
approval from the central bank to issue 7 trillion dong ($369
million) of notes and another 3 trillion dong of dollar-
denominated notes in 2010, according to a statement on State
Bank of Vietnam’s Web site.  
 BOLIVIA plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years as early as the end of 2011, Finance Minister  Luis Arce  said. He didn’t disclose the size of the offering.  
 KOREA FINANCE CORP.  plans to sell $100 million to $200
million of foreign-currency bonds in its first overseas debt
sale since October, Edaily reported, without citing anyone. The
state-run agency also plans to sell $1 billion of global bonds
in the U.S. in the second half of the year, the Korean-language
online newspaper said.  
 NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE FEDERATION of South
Korea, known as Nonghyup, hired five banks to help it sell U.S.
dollar-denominated bonds, according to two people with knowledge
of the matter. Citigroup Inc., Credit Agricole CIB, ING Groep
NV,  Morgan Stanley  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc will
help the company with the benchmark offering, the people said.
The federation, which provides credit and banking services to
farmers, is considering a maturity of 5 1/2 years, according to
one of the people. Moody’s Investors Service rates Nonghyup A1.  
 PTT PRODUCTION & EXPLORATION PCL , the Thai oil explorer,
hired Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc to help it sell global bonds, according to two people
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified as the
plan is private.  
 POWER SECTOR ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MANAGEMENT CORP. of the
Philippines may sell between $750 million and $1.5 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds “anytime” to help refinance maturing
debt through next year, Vice Chairman  Jose Ibazeta  said. The
company manages the finances of state utility National Power
Corp.  
 BRISBANE AIRPORT CORP., owner of Australia’s third-busiest
airport, may sell bonds in the U.S. later this year as it
pursues new markets to help refinance debt and pay for a new
runway. The company is considering a 10- or 15-year U.S. private
placement and a five- to seven-year Australian dollar bond sale
in late 2010 or early 2011, Chief Financial Officer  Tim Rothwell 
said in a phone interview from Brisbane.  
 VIETNAM NATIONAL COAL-MINERAL INDUSTRIES GROUP, the state-
owned coal producer known as Vinacomin, plans to sell as much as
$500 million of bonds overseas this year to fund mining and
energy projects, according to Deputy Chief Executive Officer
 Nguyen Van Hai .  
 FINLAND may sell five-year bonds denominated in dollars
this year, the Finnish Treasury said in a document posted on its
Web site.  
 POLAND may delay selling dollar-denominated bonds until
July or the autumn, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill 
was quoted as saying by PAP newswire. Poland may sell bonds in
euros as early as the autumn to prefinance its 2011 borrowing
needs, Radziwill was quoted as saying.  
 MONGOLIA plans to sell as much as $1.2 billion of bonds
overseas this year to fund infrastructure to support its mining
industry, Finance Minister  Sangajav Bayartsogt  said. This is
Mongolia’s first benchmark offering of dollar-denominated debt.
Investment banks are advising Mongolia to issue debt with
maturities of between 5 and 10 years, Bayartsogt said in an
interview. The securities may offer a yield of between 8 percent
and 11 percent, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        