-- Kan Plans May Require $76 Billion Japan Tax Rise, Adviser Says
-- Tatsuo Ito
-- 2010-06-16T08:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/kan-s-fiscal-plan-may-require-76-billion-japan-tax-increase-adviser-says.html

          
          
             Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
may have to raise taxes by as much as 7 trillion yen ($76
billion) to fulfill his pledge to cap bond sales in coming
years, according to an independent adviser to the government.  
 Kan has committed to holding new bond sales to 44.3
trillion yen through the year to March 2012. At the same time,
his administration is considering an annual public-spending
limit of 71 trillion yen over the coming three years, according
to two government officials familiar with the deliberations.  
 “The two targets are inconsistent,”  Toshiki Tomita , who
has advised the government on a midterm fiscal plan that is
scheduled for release this month, said in an interview today in
Tokyo. “There would be a gap between revenue and spending of 6
or 7 trillion yen.”  
 The shortfall underscores the challenge for Kan as he
seeks to contain the world’s largest  public debt  and end what
he calls Japan’s “unsustainable” dependency on borrowing.
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service have said they
will closely watch the budget strategy as Europe’s fiscal woes
increase global scrutiny of sovereign debt.  
 “It seems the government is going to make a tough target,”
said  Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at Citigroup Global
Markets Japan Inc. in Tokyo. “We need to keep an eye on their
level of commitment to this and how successful they will be.”  
 Media including the Mainichi and Nikkei newspapers had
previously reported the proposed spending ceiling.  
 The Ministry of Finance declined to comment on the fiscal
plan prior to its release.  
 Sales Tax  
 Kan, as finance minister under predecessor  Yukio Hatoyama ,
urged the government to contemplate an increase in the
country’s sales tax as part of efforts to restore fiscal health.
He replaced Hatoyama as premier this month.  
 A 1 percentage point increase in the sales tax would
generate revenue of about 2.5 trillion yen, according to the
ministry. That means an increase in the tax to 8 percent from
the current 5 percent would plug the 7 trillion yen hole.  
 Tomita, who is a member of the government’s Fiscal Policy
Committee, said Japan could raise taxes to fill the gap, though
any increase in the next fiscal year would be “challenging.”
Further spending cuts may also be tough as the country faces
increasing costs such as for  social welfare , he said.  
 Difficult Task  
 “The more seriously I think about it, the more difficult
I think it will be,” said Tomita, 62, an economics professor
at Chuo University in Tokyo. Unless taxes increase, “bond
sales could end up at around 50 trillion yen,” he said.  
 Newly appointed Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said as
deputy finance chief last month that Japan is “lucky”  bond
yields  have stayed around 1.3 percent. Borrowing costs could
jump “if we let our guard down,” he said in an interview on
May 13. Japan’s 10-year bond yielded 1.235 percent today.  
 A key government tax panel may underscore the need to
raise taxes in recommendations this month, the Asahi newspaper
reported today, without saying where it got the information.
The proposal doesn’t say when or by how much the sales levy
should increase, the report said. The group will also propose
increasing the maximum income tax rate, the newspaper said.  
 Should policy makers delay raising the sales tax, an
increase to as high as even 20 percent in the longer run will
be insufficient to restore fiscal health, Asahi said, citing an
unidentified Finance Ministry official. The International
Monetary Fund said last month that the tax may need to climb to
22 percent if the government doesn’t rein in spending.  
 Voter Support  
 Voters are growing open to the possibility of a higher
 consumption tax  as Japan’s coffers become more strained. A
Nikkei newspaper survey taken in May showed that 49 percent of
respondents opposed Hatoyama’s plan to delay raising the levy.  
 Any multiyear pledge to cap spending would be the first
since 2006, when then-Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi 
announced a target of balancing the budget in five years.  
 The fiscal plan will include a goal of eliminating the
primary budget deficit by 2020, the two officials said. The
shortfall, which excludes interest payments on bonds, is 7.1
percent of gross domestic product, or 33.5 trillion yen, for
the year ending March 31, the Cabinet Office estimates.  
 Tomita said the primary-balance goal “won’t be enough to
reduce outstanding debt” because of expenditure such as debt-
servicing costs, and a 4 percent surplus is required.  
 National Strategy Minister  Satoshi Arai  said last week
that the fiscal plans “need to keep a pay-as-you-go
principle,” and will be based on Kan’s pledge to limit new
bond sales.  
 This year’s budget was compiled using 10 trillion yen of
funds from special accounts, and it’s hard to expect Kan to
secure the same amount from those sources next year, said
Tomita, who is a senior independent fellow at an institute that
provides policy research for the Finance Ministry.  
 “If we rely on hidden money or just manipulating figures
within the account, it’s possible we will be seen as another
Greece,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tatsuo Ito  in Tokyo at 
 tito@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Japan's Prime Minister Naoto Kan delivers his policy speech at the Lower House of the Diet in Tokyo. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
