-- BP, Kerviel's Claims, RBS, Fairfield, Deutsche Bank, Comcast in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-06-16T12:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/kerviel-s-claims-goodwin-fairfield-deutsche-bank-comcast-in-court-news.html

          
          
             BP Plc  faces more than 225 lawsuits
in 11 states as litigation from businesses, individuals and
investors continues to increase almost two months after the
Deepwater Horizon oil rig exploded.  
 In addition to scores of claims brought in five states
along the Gulf shore, coastal businesses and property owners in
Georgia and South Carolina have sued for damages from the
drifting oil, which has yet to round the southern tip of Florida
and enter the Atlantic Ocean.  
 Investors in three states, including Louisiana and Alaska,
have sued BP’s  board of directors  for allegedly causing more
than $50 billion in shareholder losses by failing to implement
safety policies that would have prevented the spill. In a
separate class-action lawsuit in Florida, the company is accused
of “a pattern” of criminal acts including fraud. That suit
seeks triple damages under federal civil racketeering law.  
 “The damage is not just suffered at ground zero along the
Gulf Coast,” said Mark Lanier, a Houston lawyer representing
dozens of fishermen and property owners against BP. “The shock
waves reverberate across state lines and across occupational
lines.”  
 A judge may decide there isn’t a strong enough connection
between some damage claims and the spill itself and those claims
will be thrown out, Lanier said yesterday in a phone interview.
“But we’re not at that point yet,” he said.  
 BP, as owner of the underwater lease, has primary liability
for damages caused by the tens of millions of gallons of crude
oil that have spewed from the damaged well since the April
explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon. Almost all the
lawsuits also name  Transocean Ltd. , which owned the rig, along
with  Cameron International Corp.  and  Halliburton Energy Services
Inc. , which provided the rig’s blowout prevention equipment and
cementing services, respectively.  
 David Nicholas, a BP spokesman, didn’t return a call
seeking comment yesterday.  
 For more, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Kerviel Says SocGen Got Weekly Reports on Trading Accounts  
 Jerome Kerviel told a Paris court that he sent weekly
reports to his  Societe Generale SA  bosses, bolstering his claims
that the bank knew about the scale of his trades before they led
to a 4.9 billion-euro ($6 billion)  loss .  
 Kerviel has based his defense since the loss was disclosed
on Jan. 24, 2008, on the argument that his supervisors were
aware of, and encouraged, his activities.  
 Kerviel, 33, is charged with falsifying documents, computer
hacking and abuse of trust in connection with the trading loss
that prosecutors say was caused by the liquidation of 50 billion
euros in unauthorized positions. Current and former bank
employees have testified they didn’t know of his bets, which he
has told the court he “masked” by faking hedges and lying to
risk managers.  
 The treasury reports “to me represented a reflection of my
activities,” Kerviel told Judge Dominique Pauthe. “Every week
I made a report and sent it to Eric Cordelle and Martial
Rouyere,” his supervisors.  
 The treasury worked like a small bank for the traders,
Kerviel said. He borrowed billions to supplement the 20 million
euros he was allotted, based on his trading desk’s 125 million-
euro limit, and paid back interest on the loans, he said. “It
was like an internal loan,” he said.  
 In the summer of 2007, Kerviel said he borrowed 1 billion
euros to help while he was in a losing position, and by July was
ahead again. “None of my superiors asked questions,” he said.
They “could see exactly what was in the treasury of each
trader.”  
 Claire Dumas, deputy to the head of operational risk at
Societe Generale, said the fact that Kerviel reported such large
results wouldn’t necessarily raise suspicions. Markets “were on
a very strong rise” at the time, she said.  
 Societe Generale, France’s second-largest bank by  market 
value, blames Kerviel for the loss and has asked the court to
award it the full 4.9 billion euros in damages. The bank told
reporters ahead of a presentation to investors that it is
confident it will prevail.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Legal Reviews  
 Ex-RBS Chief Goodwin Said to Face Questioning by FSA  
 Fred Goodwin, the former chief executive officer of  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc , will be questioned by the U.K.’s
financial regulator, which has at least three open
investigations into the bank, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  
 The interviews, which may be delayed, were scheduled to
take place as early as yesterday, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the talks are private. Goodwin resigned
in 2008 after the U.K. injected 20 billion pounds ($29.5
billion) of taxpayer money into the lender to prevent its
collapse.  
 The U.K. Financial Services Authority  is probing RBS’s
takeover of parts of ABN Amro Group NV in 2007, a 2008 rights
offering and handling of customer complaints.  Johnny Cameron ,
the former chairman of RBS’s investment bank, agreed last month
to never take a senior management role at a financial company to
resolve an FSA investigation into his actions.  
 “The FSA has got to find some wrongdoing, and they can do
that if they think Sir Fred breached the principles of senior
management,” said Simon Morris, a lawyer at CMS Cameron McKenna
in London, of Goodwin. “They could ban him, they could take a
fine against him, and it would be an exceedingly high-profile
scalp, more so than Johnny Cameron.”  
 RBS posted the biggest loss in corporate history in 2008
and required the world’s biggest banking bailout at 45.5 billion
pounds. The FSA first said it would examine senior managers of
collapsed banks, or those that had accepted government money, in
March 2009.  
 “The FSA is conducting several extensive supervisory
investigations of the major U.K. banks that ‘failed’ during the
crisis and required full or partial taxpayer bailout support,”
the regulator said in its  annual report  last week. “The work is
still ongoing.”  
 Spokesmen for the FSA and RBS declined to comment. Goodwin
didn’t respond to a phone message left at his office in
Edinburgh.  
 For more, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 Money Manager Chais Remains Subject of Madoff Probe  
 Money manager Stanley Chais and partnerships he ran remain
under criminal investigation stemming from the Ponzi scheme
orchestrated by convicted con man Bernard Madoff, a U.S.
prosecutor said in a court filing.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Lisa Baroni told a judge in
Manhattan yesterday that federal prosecutors continue to probe
activities of Chais and his partnerships and need “additional
time to determine whether charges should be presented” to a
grand jury.  
 Baroni’s disclosure came in a court filing in which she
asked for a further postponement in a lawsuit against Chais by
the Securities and Exchange Commission. Prosecutors in Manhattan
had said in December that they expected to decide whether to
charge Chais by June. Now the government wants more time and
asked that the SEC case be further delayed.  
 “In the next several months, the government anticipates
conducting several additional interviews of other potential
witnesses and subjects in the government’s investigation,”
Baroni wrote. “The defendant in the SEC complaint remains a
subject of the government’s criminal investigation.”  
 Chais has denied wrongdoing and said he was duped by
Madoff. Chais’s lawyer, Eugene Licker, didn’t return a telephone
call and e-mail seeking comment.  
 The SEC sued Chais a year ago, saying that since the early
1970s he steered assets from three investment funds to Madoff,
“despite having clear indications” the money manager was
engaged in fraud. Chais was among Madoff’s largest investors.  
 The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanley
Chais, 09-cv-05681, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Madoff Feeder Fairfield Seeks U.S. Court Protection  
 Fairfield Sentry Ltd. , the biggest feeder fund in Bernard
Madoff’s fraudulent investment business, asked a New York
bankruptcy court for protection from creditors.  
 Fairfield Sentry filed a petition June 14 seeking U.S.
recognition of the bankruptcy case filed in the British Virgin
Islands in April 2009. Recognition by the U.S. court will help
identify assets and distribute them to creditors under the
foreign proceeding, Fairfield Sentry said in the filing.  
 Fairfield Sentry was a fund that took money from non-U.S.
residents and some U.S.-based tax-exempt entities to be invested
with Madoff, according to the bankruptcy petition. In its
petition, Fairfield Sentry said it has between $100 million and
$500 million in assets and no more than $500,000 in debts.  
 According to the court filing, 95 percent of Fairfield
Sentry’s assets were invested with Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC. Account statements showed $7 billion of
Fairfield Sentry assets Madoff claimed to hold in October 2008,
it said.  
 Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty in March to running the world’s
biggest Ponzi scheme. He’s serving a 150-year sentence in
federal prison in North Carolina.  
 Fairfield Sigma Ltd. and Fairfield Lambda Ltd., two funds
that channeled money to Fairfield Sentry for investment with
Madoff, also filed for protection on June 14.  
 The case is Fairfield Sentry Ltd., 10-13164, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Oracle Faces U.S., Whistleblower Suit Over Alleged Overcharges  
 Oracle Corp.,  the world’s second-biggest software maker,
faces a lawsuit brought by a whistleblower and the U.S. Justice
Department claiming it overcharged the government by tens of
millions of dollars.  
 The complaint, filed in federal court in Alexandria,
Virginia, claims Oracle failed to disclose discounts that it
gave its most favored commercial customers. Under General
Services Administration contracts, the government must get the
company’s best prices, according to the complaint.  
 “Oracle knowingly and recklessly employed these techniques
to offer commercial customers deeper discounts without offering
those deeper discounts to the U.S. government,” according to
the complaint.  
 Former Oracle employee Paul Frascella filed the complaint
in May 2007 under the False Claims Act, which lets private
citizens sue on behalf of the government and share in any
recovery. The U.S. joined Frascella’s complaint on April 2, when
the case was unsealed.  
 Deborah Hellinger, a spokeswoman for Redwood City,
California-based Oracle, didn’t return a call and e-mail seeking
comment yesterday. Frascella’s attorney, Christopher Mead,
declined to comment beyond saying his client no longer works at
Oracle.  
 The case is United States of America v. Oracle Corp., 07-
cv-00529, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Surgeon Avoids Prison for Plotting to Hide HSBC Cash  
 A Virginia surgeon avoided prison after admitting he hid
assets at  HSBC Holdings Plc  from U.S. tax authorities and
smuggled more than $200,000 in cash to his home when the bank
said it would close his Swiss bank account.  
 Andrew B. Silva was sentenced June 11 to two years of
probation, including four months of home detention, according to
records in U.S. District Court in Alexandria, Virginia. U.S.
District Judge Liam O’Grady imposed a $20,000 fine on Silva, who
forfeited $211,200 and paid $16,484 in back taxes.  
 O’Grady granted leniency to Silva, who helped prosecutors
probe how the bank closed his account in a manner that would
protect its “reputation for bank secrecy,” according to a
Justice Department filing outlining his cooperation. Silva also
helped build a case against the Swiss lawyer who administered
his undeclared account, prosecutors wrote.  
 “We expect that the information provided by Silva or
derived from that information, will lead to an indictment of the
Swiss lawyer,” Justice Department prosecutors wrote on June 4.
“Silva’s cooperation has furthered the government’s efforts to
investigate and prosecute individuals and entities who engage in
or facilitate tax evasion through illegal cross border
banking.”  
 Silva, who pleaded guilty to conspiring with a Swiss banker
and a Zurich attorney to defraud the U.S. and to making false
statements, faced as much as five years in prison on each count.  
 Silva’s attorney, Christopher Rizek, didn’t return a call
seeking comment. HSBC spokeswoman Juanita Gutierrez declined to
comment.  
 The case is USA v. Silva, 10-cr-44, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  
 For more, click here.  
 Canadian Developer Agrees to Guilty Plea in Mining Fraud  
 Canadian developer Alberto DoCouto, who bilked investors of
more than $26 million in bogus mining projects, agreed to plead
guilty to securities fraud after almost three years in jail
awaiting trial in Las Vegas.  
 DoCouto, who relied on a public defender for most of the
time since he was charged, agreed to pay the U.S. a penalty of
$26.1 million. His agreement with federal prosecutors also calls
for a sentence ranging from 63 months to 150 months under the
U.S. guidelines. The term, to be determined by a judge, will
depend on his criminal history.  
 “The United States expressly states that it intends to
recommend a sentence at the high end of the applicable
sentencing range,” according to the June 11 agreement, which
was posted on a court website yesterday.  
 DoCouto, of Henderson, Nevada, moved to the U.S. in 2002
after he was acquitted of fraud charges in Canada in 1998. He
was accused in Nevada of persuading Japanese, Canadian and U.S.
investors to give him money to develop mines in Peru, Nevada and
Guyana. He admitted he made no effort to carry out the projects,
and as a result investors lost more than $26 million.  
 “While investors lost almost all the money they invested
in DoCouto’s scheme, DoCouto enriched himself at their
expense,” according to a statement he and prosecutors agreed
was true. “DoCouto used funds obtained from investors for the
express purpose of developing the purported mining and real
estate projects to lead a lavish lifestyle complete with an
opulent home, luxury automobiles and profligate spending,”  
 The case is U.S. v. DoCouto, 02:07cr00203, U.S. District
Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  
 For more, click here.  
 Deutsche Bank Loses Case Over 2008 Shareholder Meeting  
 Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest bank, lost an appeals
court ruling over votes at its 2008 shareholder meeting,
including the re-election of Clemens Boersig to its supervisory
board, a lawyer for the bank said.  
 The Frankfurt Higher Regional Court backed a lower tribunal
that said shareholders weren’t properly invited to the meeting,
Markus Meier, a lawyer for Deutsche Bank, said in an interview
yesterday.  
 “The ruling conflicts with several decisions of other
German appeals courts and even with the assessments of other
chambers of the same court,” Meier said. “We will ask
Germany’s top civil court to review the case and are optimistic
that we will prevail in the end.”  
 The lawsuit is one of about a dozen filed by Leo Kirch, the
German businessman who blames  Deutsche Bank  for the collapse of
his media empire. Among the plaintiffs is Michael Bohndorf, a
Deutsche Bank shareholder targeted by detectives hired by the
lender.  
 The appeals court said at a hearing last month that
Deutsche Bank’s invitation to the meeting may have limited
shareholders’ rights to appoint a representative by seemingly
requiring a three-day notice period. The way the invitation was
drafted may have deterred some shareholders from asserting their
right to be represented at the meeting, the court said.  
 Kirch started a legal battle against the lender after the
bank’s former Chief Executive Officer Rolf Breuer commented
about the creditworthiness of Kirch’s former media group on
Bloomberg TV in February 2002. Kirch has sued the bank over each
annual shareholder meeting at Deutsche Bank since 2003.  
 The case is OLG Frankfurt, 5 U 144/09.  
 Comcast’s $16 Million Web-Slowdown Accord Approved  
 Comcast Corp. , the largest U.S. cable company, won final
approval of a $16 million settlement of consumers’ claims that
it intentionally delayed some file transfers over its high-speed
Internet service.  
 U.S. District Judge Legrome D. Davis in Philadelphia
yesterday said the accord, which gives customer who had file
transfers that were slowed to a crawl on Comcast’s system as
much as $16 apiece, is the first under which an Internet service
provider is paying to resolve so-called data-bias claims. About
1 million Comcast users might have claims under the settlement.  
 “It’s the first and only monetary settlement of one of
these cases,” the judge said.  
 Customers sued Philadelphia-based Comcast in November 2007
alleging it slowed or delayed attempts to download files using
applications including Ares, BitTorrent, eDonkey, FastTrack or
Gnutella for transferring movie and audio files.  
 The settlement fund will be distributed to customers who
used the targeted applications between 2006 and 2008 and who
file a claim, according to court filings.  
 Lawyers for Comcast told Davis the company believed the
steps it took to regulate the transfer of large files within its
network were reasonable. The cable provider decided to settle
the case to “move on,” said Seamus Duffy, one of the company’s
attorneys.  
 The case is In Re Comcast Corp. Peer-to-Peer (P2P)
Transmission Contract Litigation, 08-1992 U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  
 For more, click here.  
 Mediaset Loses Appeal of EU Order to Repay State Aid  
 Mediaset SpA , Italy’s biggest private television
broadcaster, lost a court challenge to a European Union decision
forcing it to repay millions of dollars in subsidies for the
purchase of digital-broadcast decoders.  
 Mediaset “should have known not only that the measure at
issue was not technologically neutral, but also that it had not
been notified to or authorized by” EU antitrust regulators, the
Luxembourg-based EU General Court said in a ruling yesterday.
The decision confirmed the subsidies were unlawful state aid
which must be repaid to the Italian government.  
 Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, who owns
Mediaset, originally introduced the grants. Mediaset runs three
free-to-air TV channels that compete with the network of state-
owned  RAI SpA  and satellite broadcaster Sky Italia SpA, owned by
Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp . Mediaset also controls Spanish TV
station  Gestevision Telecinco SA .  
 The Brussels-based European Commission, the executive
agency for the 27 EU nations, in its January 2007 decision said
the subsidies amounted to more than 200 million euros ($243
million) for individuals who bought digital terrestrial
decoders, while satellite technology was excluded. Mediaset was
among companies that indirectly benefited from the aid, the
commission said, ordering them to repay the money.  
 Mediaset said in a statement that it would appeal the
ruling to the European Court of Justice. The Milan-based company
said that the subsidies had been paid to consumers.  
 A spokesman for the Italian government declined to
comment. Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission’s
antitrust unit, “welcomed” the ruling.  
 The case is T-177/07 Mediaset v. Commission.  
 Canadian Pacific’s DM&E Acquisition Upheld By Court  
 Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. ’s acquisition of the Dakota,
Minnesota & Eastern Railroad Corp. in 2008 was upheld by an
appeals court, which rejected challenges by the Sierra Club and
Chicago’s commuter rail agency.  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia said
yesterday that the Sierra Club had no stake in the matter that
would allow it to sue, and rebuffed claims by the agency, known
as Metra, that the Surface Transportation Board abused its
discretion in approving the purchase. Both plaintiffs claimed
the board’s approval was premature.  
 Canada’s second-largest railroad won U.S. regulatory
approval for the deal in September 2008. The company paid $1.48
billion for DM&E to expand its access to ethanol and coal
markets in the U.S. Midwest.  
 Metra, which provides commuter rail service in the Chicago
area, said the board should have attached conditions to the
approval to protect its track rights between Chicago and
Wisconsin. The Sierra Club challenged the board’s decision to
approve the takeover while it deferred an environmental impact
study.  
 A representative from the Sierra Club and an attorney for
Metra didn’t return calls seeking comment.  
 The case is Commuter Railroad Division v Surface
Transportation Board, 08-1346, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia (Washington).  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Litigation Departments  
 Lawyer Who Helped Terrorist Deserves Enhanced Term, U.S. Says  
 Attorney Lynne Stewart, convicted of helping an extremist
cleric pass messages from prison to terrorist followers,
deserves an enhanced sentence because of statements she made
after her conviction and sentencing, U.S. prosecutors said.  
 A federal appeals court in New York in November ruled that
Stewart, 70 should be resentenced in a way that reflects the
“seriousness” of her crime. U.S. District Judge John Koeltl in
Manhattan, who originally sentenced Stewart to 28 months in
prison and is presiding over the case, has scheduled her
resentencing for July 15.  
 Stewart was convicted by a federal jury in New York in 2005
for helping her former client, the blind Egyptian sheik Omar
Abdel Rahman, smuggle messages to followers in defiance of U.S.
prison restrictions. Stewart, who was free pending appeal, was
ordered to prison Nov. 19 and is being held at a federal jail in
lower Manhattan.  
 “Stewart has made it clear that if given the opportunity
to engage in the unlawful conduct for which she now stands
convicted she would do it again,” federal prosecutors in the
office of Preet Bharara said in court papers.  
 Stewart’s lawyers argued in court papers that the 28-month
term imposed by Koeltl was “reasonable, just and satisfied the
purposes of sentencing.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Stewart, 06-5015-cr, U.S. Court of
Appeals (New York.)  
 For more, click here.  
 Justice Nominee Cole Quizzed on Terrorism at Hearing  
 James M. Cole, a corporate defense lawyer nominated by
President Barack Obama for the No. 2 Justice Department job, was
questioned by Republicans at his confirmation hearing about
whether terror suspects should be treated as enemy combatants.  
 Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the ranking Republican on
the  Senate Judiciary Committee , said at yesterday’s hearing that
Cole has taken the position that al-Qaeda terrorists responsible
for the Sept. 11 attacks on the U.S. are “common criminals”
while Americans “believe they are war criminals.”  
 Cole, 58, is a partner at the law firm of  Bryan Cave LLP  in
Washington and a former Justice Department prosecutor. If
confirmed by the Senate, he would fill the deputy attorney
general’s job vacated in February by David W. Ogden, who
returned to private practice.  
 Cole was a Justice Department lawyer for 13 years and
served as deputy chief of the department’s  public integrity
section , which handles corruption cases involving public
officials. His law practice includes advising companies on
securities, regulatory and criminal law matters.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest litigation department news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        