-- Kerviel Says `Nobody Was Worried' About Fake Orders
-- Carol Matlack
-- 2010-06-16T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/kerviel-tells-court-faked-orders-used-for-misdirection-weren-t-credible-.html

          
          
             Jerome Kerviel  admitted creating
fictitious transactions to sidetrack  Societe Generale SA 
controllers who questioned him before the bank’s 4.9 billion-
euro ($6 billion)  loss . He denied his actions were criminal.  
 The former trader conceded he put false information into
Societe Generale’s computer system, created false documents in
e-mails and traded beyond the bank’s limits, while saying his
actions were condoned because the bank didn’t stop him.  
 Kerviel likened Societe Generale’s risk-control department
to police who failed to stop drivers they watched running red
lights and speeding.  
 “The police saw me exceed the limits,” he told a Paris
court at his criminal trial yesterday. “Nobody was worried
about how it happened.”  
 Kerviel, 33, blamed for the bank’s January 2008 trading
loss, the result of unwinding 50 billion euros worth of
positions he took and hid with fake hedges. In addition to
falsifying documents, he is charged with computer hacking and
abuse of trust.  
 “The explanation was not credible,” Kerviel said of a
response to questions from one of the bank’s controllers sent in
July 2007. Previously, Kerviel testified his cover-ups were “so
crude” they should have been discredited, and only served to
buy him time to get his trades back into positive territory.  
 Under questioning by Judge Dominique Pauthe, Kerviel said
he altered e-mails to make it appear clients had asked him to
take market positions.  
 Altered E-Mails  
 In one instance, Kerviel said, he removed the text of a
message from a  BNP Paribas  employee and rewrote it, retaining
the sender’s address heading. He said he then sent the altered
message to superiors who had raised questions about his trades.  
 Kerviel said he continued taking market positions far
beyond the limits set by the bank, because “the results gave me
confidence.” Kerviel’s trading activity generated a 1.4
billion-euro profit during 2007, but Kerviel has said he
reported only a 55 million-euro profit, transferring the rest to
other traders’ accounts to avoid drawing attention.  
 After Kerviel responded “yes” to whether he faked
documents, entered incorrect information in the bank’s computers
and exceeded his limits, prosecutor  Jean-Michel Aldebert  asked
Kerviel why he hadn’t revealed market bets totaling 50 billion
euros when questioned by Societe Generale in January 2008.  
 “If they had asked the question I would have answered
it,” Kerviel said. “They were interrogating me about the 1.4
billion, asking if it was real or not, and it was.”  
 ‘Really Bad’  
 Alain Declerck , who recruited Kerviel to the trading floor
in 2005, said Kerviel was disciplined that year after it was
discovered he had taken a market position of 15 million euros.  
 “We had a meeting with my boss,” said Declerck, who left
Societe Generale in January 2007. “We told him he didn’t have
the right to do that, that it was really bad. As we were leaving
the meeting, Jerome asked if he was about to be fired.”  
 “Apart from yelling,” there wasn’t any punishment
available between firing and doing nothing, Declerck said. “For
some time after that I paid close attention” to his trading.  
 The hearing opened with a debate between lawyers for the
bank and the former trader over whether France’s second-largest
bank by market value should turn over additional computer hard
drives related to Kerviel now located in Chicago.  
 “We want transparency,” said Kerviel lawyer  Olivier Metzner .  
 Societe Generale lawyer  Jean Veil  said the bank has been
forthcoming in admitting it failed to catch Kerviel’s activities
in spite of repeated alerts and queries.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
 Carol Matlack  in Paris at 
 carol_matlack@businessweek.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jerome Kerviel is on trial, blamed for the Societe Generale's January 2008 trading loss, the result of unwinding 50 billion euros worth of positions he took and hid with fake hedges. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
