-- King Tells U.K. Bankers to See Revamped Rule Regime as `Flexible Friend'
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-06-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/king-tells-u-k-bankers-to-see-revamped-rule-regime-as-flexible-friend-.html

          
          
             Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
told U.K. financiers that new government regulations on banking
will become a “friend” to them by assuring the stability of
the financial system.  
 “A credible macro-prudential regime could help forestall
both excessive exuberance and unnecessary caution,” he said in
a speech at the Mansion House in London’s financial district
yesterday. “By altering the pressure on the financial brakes
according to circumstances, regulation, far from being an
inflexible foe, would become a flexible friend.”  
 Banking lobby groups warn that an international push to
tighten financial regulation will impede the global economy.
King’s comments preceded a speech by Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne , who set out a proposal to hand banking
supervision back to the central bank as part of his biggest
overhaul of financial rules since 1997.  
 “We shall aim to avoid an overly legalistic culture with
its associated compliance-driving style of regulation,” King
said. “We must reverse the seemingly inexorable trend towards
more regulation and more regulators.”  
 A new Financial Policy Committee will set capital rules for
the entire banking system and will work alongside a prudential
regulator that will have “micro-prudential responsibilities,”
King said.  
 “We will put in place a framework for financial stability
to parallel that for monetary stability,” the governor said.
“Just as the role of a central bank in monetary policy is to
take the punch bowl away just as the party gets going, its role
in financial stability should be to turn down the music when the
dancing gets a little too wild.”  
 Sants’s Role  
 Hector Sants , former chief executive officer of the
Financial Services Authority, will join the central bank as CEO
of the prudential regulator.  Andrew Bailey , now the bank’s
executive director of banking and chief cashier, will be deputy
CEO, King said.  
 The governor also welcomed the government’s announcement
today of the Independent Banking Commission, led by former
central bank Chief Economist  John Vickers , to investigate the
future of banking. Officials should ensure that changes don’t
create incentives that undermine stability, King said.  
 “One misalignment of incentives today is the implicit
guarantee to banks that are ‘too important to fail,’ so that
creditors have little incentive to monitor the behavior of banks
because they believe they will be bailed out,” he said. “We
should not shy away from radical reform just because of the
opposition of vested interests.”  
 The Institute of International Finance warned June 10 that
proposed banking regulations would erase 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product in the world’s major economies as financial
firms curb lending. The economic impact would translate into
about 9.7 million fewer jobs created over the five-year period
than would otherwise be the case, said the report from the
Washington-based IIF, which represents more than 375 financial
companies in more than 70 countries.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        