-- Kohl Rejects Annuity Mandate as U.S. Retirees Face Outliving Their Savings
-- Margaret Collins
-- 2010-06-16T21:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/kohl-rejects-annuity-mandate-as-u-s-retirees-face-outliving-their-savings.html

          
          
             Senator  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin
Democrat, said no one should be forced to buy an annuity as
Congress began debate today on how to help Americans make their
savings last through retirement.  
 Legislators and regulators are focusing on investments with
income guarantees to supplement traditional retirement plans
such as 401(k)s and IRAs as life expectancies increase and more
workers manage their own savings. Encouraging savers to purchase
annuities, which are insurance products that provide monthly
income for life in exchange for upfront payments, is one of the
options under consideration by Congress.  
 “Our goal is to find ways to ensure U.S. retirees have
access to lifetime income options that provide adequate consumer
protections at a reasonable cost,” said Kohl, chairman of the
Senate  Special Committee on Aging , at a hearing today.  
 An estimated 47 percent of Americans born between 1948 and
1954 may not be able to afford basic expenses and uninsured
health-care costs through retirement, according to the
Washington-based Employee Benefit Research Institute. EBRI has a
database of 24 million 401(k) participants and 20 million
Individual Retirement Accounts.  
 “The risk of outliving one’s assets in retirement, or
longevity risk, has been placed squarely on the shoulders of
workers,” said Assistant Secretary of Labor  Phyllis Borzi  said
in testimony for the hearing. The life expectancy of a 65-year-
old U.S. male is 82, and 85 for a 65-year-old female, according
to the Social Security Administration.  
 Pension Plan Participants  
 Half of households in 2007 with someone age 55 to age 64 had
financial assets of $72,400 or less, according to the Government
Accountability Office, and the average monthly Social Security
benefit as of April was $1,067.  
 The number of participants in traditional pension plans --
where employers generally provide retired employees with
lifetime payments -- fell to about 19 million in 2007 from 27
million in 1975. In that same period, workers in defined
contribution plans such as 401(k)s increased to 67 million from
11 million, according to the Labor Department.  
 The Aging Committee hearing today follows a request for
comment from the U.S. Labor and Treasury departments in February
on retirement security including annuities in plans, and whether
regulators should require employers with 401(k)s to offer a
lifetime income option or automatically enroll employees who
don’t make a selection.  
 Borzi said at the hearing that of almost 800 responses
received by the departments, “perhaps the biggest disagreement
among the commenters centers on whether the government should
mandate lifetime income as a distribution option.”  
 Mom’s Annuity  
 Senator  Al Franken , a Minnesota Democrat, questioned
whether increased financial education for Americans starting in
elementary school would help secure retirement savings.  
 “My mom had an annuity and I think it was a good thing but
very few people get an annuity,” he said at the hearing.  
 Last year, 4 percent of employers offered a 401(k) plan
that allowed workers to allocate a portion of contributions to
an income guarantee, according to Callan Associates Inc., a San
Francisco-based investment-consulting firm. As for employees,
less than 1 percent purchase an annuity when retiring, according
to  Hewitt Associates , a Lincolnshire, Illinois-based human-
resources firm.  
 The insurance industry is developing lifetime income
products that address consumer concerns such as inflation
protection, death benefits and flexibility for withdrawals, said
 Bill Mullaney , president of U.S. business for New York-based
 MetLife Inc.   
 Flexibility and Cost  
 “In exchange for that flexibility there’s typically some
added cost,” Mullaney said. Workers generally underestimate how
long they’ll live and how much they need to save, which is why
they should consider annuitizing a portion of savings to provide
income for life, he said.  
 One pending bill, introduced in December by Senators  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat,  Johnny Isakson , a Georgia
Republican, and Kohl, would require corporate retirement plan
sponsors to disclose how much monthly income employees’
portfolios would generate in retirement.  
 Lawmakers should proceed with caution, said Lisa Mensah, an
executive director for the  Aspen Institute , a Washington policy
research group.  
 “There’s an all-too-common refrain that if we don’t force
people to do what we think is best for them, ‘those people,’
will just head to Vegas or buy an RV with their nest eggs,” she
said at the hearing. “I propose instead that we keep annuities
voluntary but make them easier, safer and a better deal.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        