-- Korean Won May Gain to 1,100 in 18 Months, Bennenbroek of Wells Fargo Says
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-06-16T21:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/korean-won-may-gain-to-1100-in-18-months-bennenbroek-of-wells-fargo-says.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won may strengthen to
the 1,125-1,100 level in 12 to 18 months as concern about
conflicts with North Korea and derivatives regulation eases,
according to Wells Fargo & Co.  
 Tension with North Korea after the sinking of a warship in
March and regulatory uncertainty have pushed the won down 9
percent since the beginning of May, according to a note from
 Nick Bennenbroek , New York-based head of currency strategy.  
 “We don’t see ongoing regional tensions as a reason for
further won weakness,” he wrote in the note dated yesterday.
“The strength of Korea’s economic rebound should soon begin to
pay dividends for the won.”  
 The won yesterday touched 1,207, the highest level in
almost two weeks, as signs the global recovery will withstand
Europe’s debt crisis spurred demand for emerging-market assets
and prompted exporters to repatriate earnings.  
 Exports, manufacturing, investment and consumer spending
are increasing, and foreign investors are beginning to  buy 
Korean stocks, according to Bennenbroek, who adds that the
government’s “resistance” to increasing interest rates is
waning.  
 South Korea is joining developing nations including China,
Brazil, Colombia and Russia in tightening rules on capital flows
to limit swings in their currencies. New rules will require
foreign bank branches to cut positions of foreign-exchange
options and swaps to 250 percent of equity capital and domestic
banks to 50 percent under changes recommended to President  Lee Myung Bak ’s regulatory reform committee, according to a
statement on June 13.  
 Previous Periods  
 The legislation will stabilize the currency, which has
fallen during previous periods of stress as investors fled
riskier assets for the U.S. dollar, Bennenbroek wrote.  
 “The new lower limits should make the won less prone to
this type of volatility while, importantly, Korean authorities
also said the regulations aren’t aimed at setting a direction
for the won or limiting portfolio investment,” he wrote. “The
downside risk for the won stemming from the new regulations has
largely disappeared, and indeed the formal announcement on the
new derivative rules prompted won buying.”  
 The won closed yesterday at 1,210.75 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        