-- New York's Paterson Sets June 28 Deadline for Lawmakers on Budget Solution
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-06-16T20:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/new-york-s-paterson-sets-june-28-deadline-for-lawmakers-on-budget-solution.html

          
          
             New York  Governor  David Paterson  set
a June 28 deadline for an accord on the state’s overdue budget
and said if lawmakers don’t cooperate he will submit an
emergency bill that would have to be passed or else government
would shut down.  
 Borrowing, including the sale of additional tobacco bonds,
mustn’t be part of any agreement that closes the budget gap for
the year that began April 1, Paterson said in a public meeting
with Senate and Assembly leaders today. Lawmakers, under
pressure from the governor, have passed 11 consecutive weekly
spending bills that trimmed the $9.2 billion deficit in the
governor’s $135.2 billion budget to about $8.1 billion.  
 “I will not sign any budget that has any deficit financing
in it,” Paterson, 56, told the lawmakers in Albany. That ban
includes the sale of bonds backed by tobacco-settlement
payments, he said. Paterson previously said borrowing to close
the deficit was a “last resort” that he wouldn’t rule out.  
 The rejection of borrowing to close the gap is needed to
show that “we are not pushing any problems of today off into
the future,” Paterson said.  
 Paterson, who isn’t seeking election in November, said the
state will continue to face budget pressure after his term is
completed at year-end. Federal stimulus money runs out this year
and in 2012 the three-year increase in the top tax rate for
individuals earning more than $200,000 will expire, he said.  
 Budget Impact  
 Assuming this year’s deficit is bridged as Paterson
proposed, the  budget gap  for the year beginning April 1, 2011,
would be $5.39 billion, according to state projections. That gap
would be larger if this year’s deficit was closed by additional
one-time actions not sought by Paterson, such as bond sales.  
 Paterson’s  budget  prepared earlier this year called for the
state to raise $650 million from a new tax on sweetened drinks,
equal to a about 1 cent per ounce, and $200 million from an
extra $1-per-pack tax on cigarettes. Both chambers have rejected
the soda levy, with only the Senate opposing the cigarette tax
in its budget plan prepared in March.  
 Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat like Paterson
and front-runner in November’s gubernatorial election, also
opposes selling bonds to close the deficit.  
 Tobacco Bonds  
 Senate Democratic Leader  John Sampson  of Brooklyn, a
proponent of a tobacco bond sale to raise $700 million to $1
billion, told reporters after the meeting that the financing is
still subject to negotiations and shouldn’t be ruled out.  
 One advantage of tobacco bonds is that they are “not state
debt technically” and wouldn’t immediately affect the state’s
finances, Budget Director  Robert Megna  said this month.  
 With about $60 billion of existing debt as of March 31, New
York is the second-most indebted state after California. It owes
investors about $9.8 billion for bonds sold to pay operating
expenses, not for capital projects such as roads or buildings,
according to a March  report  by Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli .
Payments on bonds sold to shrink deficits cost the state $1.1
billion last year, or about 20 percent of all debt payments,
state documents show.  
 Without selling more tobacco bonds, the state could expect
to begin receiving payments in perpetuity from tobacco companies
after 2018, according to Megna. If more bonds are sold, the
cigarette company payments would be absorbed by bondholders for
additional years, depending on the amount of new securities and
their interest rates.  
 State Pledge  
 Tobacco bonds weren’t covered by a 2000 law intended to
curb New York’s borrowing, even though they are backed by a
state pledge if the cigarette companies’ payments are
insufficient, according to DiNapoli.  
 A new $700 million sale “would likely eliminate the
accelerated” repayment of existing tobacco bonds and extend
their expected life by at least two years, the  report  said. The
existing bonds have a stated final maturity of 2022.  
 Paterson said his push for a budget agreement has added
urgency because the state is running out of money and is
shifting funds between accounts and delaying payments.  
 New York lacked almost $1 billion to pay all its June 1
bills and delayed $1.5 billion of school aid due that day until
the second half of the month, after June 15 income-tax payments,
Megna said last month. Without a budget that cuts spending or
raises revenue, the state’s next cash shortage may come in
September, he said.  
 Beat the Deadline  
 A budget agreement may be reached within a week, or sooner
than Paterson’s deadline, Senate and  Assembly  leaders said after
the meeting. Areas of disagreement between the two chambers
include aid to local school districts, the state’s largest
expense, borrowing, and state funding for local property-tax
relief.  
 The Assembly is working “to get as close as we can to the
$9.2 billion in cuts,” and then consider alternatives, said
Assembly Speaker  Sheldon Silver , a Democrat from Manhattan.  
 Silver didn’t describe additional sources of revenue the
Assembly might support, except to say they don’t include any
“broad-based taxes” or an increased tax rate on high-income
individuals. The Assembly isn’t considering selling state
assets, he said.  
 Sampson said the Senate will continue to push for state-
financed rebates on  local property taxes  for low-income senior
citizens without any new taxes or fees, as it proposed earlier.  
 “I’ll have to convince the governor” to allow a tobacco
bonds sale, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        