-- New Jersey Capital of Trenton Loses Budget Fix as Voters Reject Water Deal
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-06-16T22:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/new-jersey-capital-of-trenton-loses-budget-fix-as-voters-reject-water-deal.html

          
          
             Trenton,  New Jersey , voters rejected
plans to sell portions of the state capital’s water system to a
private operator by a nearly 4-1 margin, the same day the city
sold $67 million of general obligation and school bonds.  
 The move to sell pipes and holding towers to  American Water
Works Co. ’s New Jersey subsidiary lost by a vote of 6,968 to
1,812, according to the  Mercer County Clerk’s office . Officials
for the city of 83,000 were counting on the deal to raise $80
million and help balance the budget after a cut in state aid.  
 Trenton had planned to balance the budget for fiscal 2011,
which begins July 1, with $32 million saved by eliminating 400
jobs, and $10 million from the water sale and a new form of
state aid. Moody’s Investors Service, which cut Trenton’s credit
rating on May 26 and was weighing another downgrade, is still
reviewing the city’s standing, said spokesman  Tom Lemmon .  
 “It’s a little premature to comment on what effect it will
have,” Lemmon said of the water vote. “The analysts who are
working on it are well aware of the situation and will be taking
a look at it.”  
 Trenton yesterday paid about 50 basis points, or half a
percentage point, more than Hammonton, a New Jersey community
located 43 miles (71 kilometers) to the south, on identically
rated school bonds issued 30 minutes apart, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 “That’s probably why we got 4.3 percent instead of 3.8
percent,”  Edward McManimon , whose law firm, McManimon &
Scotland of Newark, New Jersey, handled both deals, said today
in a telephone interview.  
 Credit Rating  
 New Jersey American Water spent $841,000 promoting its
Trenton acquisition through an organization called  The Committee
for Trenton Yes , a filing yesterday with the Election Law
Enforcement Commission shows.  Maureen Duffy , a spokeswoman with
American Water, said the company was disappointed by the vote.  
 “But we’re proud of the efforts we took to inform the
residents of the city of Trenton,” she said.  
 Mayor  Douglas Palmer , who is in his last weeks in office
after 20 years, said he worked on the water deal for eight
years. He said the lost revenue and increased expenses because
of the defeat will reach $12 million a year.  
 Palmer said he will present a job-cutting plan to deal with
the budget deficit to the state Department of Personnel within
“the next few days.”  
 ‘Massive’ Job Losses  
 “We’re looking at the reality of massive layoffs as a
result of this,” he said in a city hall press briefing. “I
have to prepare our citizens and the incoming administration for
the worst-case scenario.”  
 Tony Mack, a former county freeholder who won yesterday’s
mayoral election, opposed the sale and wanted the city to keep
control of its water revenue, according to his  website .  
 The lowering of Trenton’s long-term rating to A3, four
levels above non-investment grade, by Moody’s affected $371
million of general obligation debt. The firm said the downgrade
reflected the city’s narrow cash reserves, the reliance on the
water-system sale and a $42.5 million drop in state aid that
would reduce municipal revenue by 22 percent.  
 “Moody’s will continue to monitor the severity of the cuts
as the state adopts a fiscal 2011 budget and the city’s
implementation of an adequate plan to address those cuts,” the
firm said in a June 14 report on this week’s bond sale.  
 Under orders from the state Department of Community
Affairs, Trenton this month raised property taxes by $12
million, or about 15 percent, to help balance the budget for the
fiscal year that ends June 30, McManimon said. The spending plan
for next fiscal year calls for dismissing 145 of 400 police
officers, 71 fire personnel and everyone working in the
recreation department, according to the Moody’s report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        