-- New York City Remains Top U.S. Terrorist Target, Police Commissioner Says
-- Chris Dolmetsch
-- 2010-06-16T18:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/new-york-city-remains-top-u-s-terrorist-target-police-commissioner-says.html

          
          
             New York City remains the preeminent
target for terrorists plotting attacks on U.S. soil, Police
Commissioner  Raymond Kelly  said.  
 There have been 11 known plots against the city since the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, while there have been no publicly
acknowledged terror conspiracies against Washington during that
same period, Kelly said today following a press conference at
police headquarters in lower Manhattan.  
 “We look at the cases as they mount up here -- New York is
still unfortunately on top of the terrorist target list,” he
said. That’s “our operational premise.”  
 Terrorist groups will continue to send operatives to the
U.S., regardless of whether plots are successful, Kelly said.
His remarks came less than seven weeks after  Faisal Shahzad , a
naturalized U.S. citizen born in Pakistan, was arrested in
connection with a failed attempt to detonate a bomb in New
York’s Time Square.  
 The Obama administration has said that Shahzad, who U.S.
Attorney General  Eric Holder  has said admitted his role in the
bombing attempt and is cooperating with authorities, received
training and funding from a Taliban group based in Pakistan.  
 “If they succeed, they’re happy,” Kelly said. “If they
don’t succeed, they know at the very least they’ve cost us
money, they’ve given us some angst, some concern throughout the
community.”  
 On June 14, a federal judge in White Plains, New York,
delayed the trial of four men charged with plotting to set off
explosives outside a New York City synagogue and shoot down
military planes with anti-aircraft missiles. In Brooklyn federal
court, jury selection began this week in the trial of three men
charged in a plot to blow up fuel lines and tanks at John F.
Kennedy International Airport.  
 “They are going to continue to come in our direction and
we’re going to do everything we reasonably can to prevent
them,” the commissioner said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  at New York City Police Headquarters
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        