-- New Democrats Seek Swaps Trading Change, Oppose Lincoln Plan
-- Matthew Leising
-- 2010-06-16T15:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/new-democrats-house-bloc-seek-swaps-trading-changes-oppose-lincoln-plan.html

          
          
             A group of House Democrats wants
congressional leaders to change rules on how swaps can be traded
and drop a plan to separate derivatives trading from commercial
banking as the U.S. overhauls its financial industry.  
 The 69-member  New Democrat  coalition drafted a letter to
lawmakers who are meeting to reconcile House and Senate overhaul
measures. The letter supports an independent consumer protection
agency, allowing the U.S. to dismantle failing financial firms
and removing a fiduciary duty standard applied to banks selling
swaps to municipalities, according to a copy of the letter that
was obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 To redo the $615 trillion over-the-counter derivatives
market, lawmakers have focused on requiring most swap trades be
processed by clearinghouses and traded through regulated
exchanges such as Chicago-based  CME Group Inc.  or on so-called
swap execution facilities. Senate plans, which are the basis for
the conference committee bill, are more restrictive on how swaps
can trade than what the House passed in December.  
 The Senate bill “does not provide a workable definition
for a trade execution facility or appropriate direction to the
regulators that will allow them to evaluate the impact of
exchange trading or clearing” on how often swaps are traded,
what’s known as liquidity, the letter said.  
 With 69 votes in the House, the New Democrats have become a
growing force within their party and can prevent legislation
from passing if they vote together, assuming no Republican
support. The group is chaired by Rep.  Joseph Crowley  of New
York. Its vice-chairmen are  Melissa Bean  of Illinois,  Ron Kind 
of Wisconsin,  Adam Smith  of Washington and  Allyson Schwartz  of
Pennsylvania, according to the group’s website.  
 Regulating Swaps  
 Adam Pace, executive director of New Democrat Coalition,
didn’t immediately return a call and e-mail seeking comment.
None of the New Democrat members signed the letter obtained by
Bloomberg News.  
 How credit-default or interest-rate swaps are allowed to be
traded under the new law is a contentious area of regulation for
banks because of the wide profit margin they make by keeping
their prices private. A change in the definition of swap
execution facility would be at least the fifth time the rules
have been altered since House began considering changes last
year.  
 The five largest U.S. dealers, including JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., earned an estimated $28
billion in trading revenue in the over-the-counter derivatives
market last year, according to reports from the New York-based
banks collected by the Federal Reserve and people familiar with
banks’ income.  
 Forwarded Letter  
 The letter is being sent to New Democrat members for
signatures of support and is expected to be forwarded today to
Representative  Barney Frank , the Democrat from Massachusetts who
is chairman of the conference committee reconciling the bills.  
 The Senate approved a bill last month that included a
proposal by Senator  Blanche Lincoln , an Arkansas Democrat, to
prohibit commercial lenders from running swaps desks. It may
cost banks more than $200 billion, the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, a financial industry lobbying
group, estimated in April.  
 The letter opposes the Lincoln plan and says it would
increase systemic risk by “forcing derivatives transactions
into less regulated and less capitalized institutions and impede
effective regulatory oversight of the derivatives markets.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        