-- New Jersey Woman Charged by U.S. in $45 Million Real Estate Ponzi Scheme
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-06-16T22:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/new-jersey-woman-charged-by-u-s-for-directing-45-million-ponzi-scheme.html

          
          
             A New Jersey woman was charged with
directing a $45 million real estate Ponzi scheme that allegedly
defrauded more than 20 investors in New York and New Jersey.  
 Antoinette Hodgson, 58, of Montclair, New Jersey, was
released today on $6 million bond after appearing before U.S.
Magistrate Judge  Frank Maas  in Manhattan. Hodgson paid off early
investors in her business with funds from later participants and
spent some of their money on herself, said prosecutors in the
office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara .  
 Hodgson, in a scheme from 2006 to December 2009, promised
high rates of return on funds to buy and renovate residential
properties that would be re-sold or rented, prosecutors said.
She spent hundreds of thousands of dollars at Atlantic City and
Las Vegas casinos, used $70,000 to buy a Dunkin’ Donuts
franchise in Arizona, and gave herself, friends and family
members tens of thousands more, prosecutors said.  
 “What Antoinette Hodgson allegedly promised to investors
seemed too good to be true and that’s because it was,” Bharara
said in a statement. “This case is a further reminder that
whether the real estate market is up or down, innocent investors
can be and will be targeted by unscrupulous fraudsters.”  
 Hodgson used only $6 million of the $45 million she
received to buy real estate, prosecutors said. Most of her
investors’ money was used to repay other people brought into the
scheme, the U.S. said. She is charged with conspiracy and wire
fraud.  
 Jack Arseneault , Hodgson’s lawyer, said after court that
his client didn’t misappropriate investors’ money and will fight
the charges.  
 ‘Pretty Inept’  
 “If this is a Ponzi scheme, it’s a pretty inept Ponzi
scheme,” Arseneault said. “It was never her intent to defraud
anyone.”  
 If convicted, Hodgson faces as long as 20 years in prison,
prosecutors said.  
 The case is U.S. v. Antoinette Hodgson, 10-MAG-01261,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        