-- News Corp.'s Carey Emerges as Leader on BSkyB, Company's Biggest Deal
-- Sarah Rabil
-- 2010-06-16T20:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/news-corp-s-carey-emerges-as-leader-in-media-company-s-pursuit-of-bskyb.html

          
          
             News Corp.  Chief Operating Officer
 Chase Carey , brought in as  Rupert Murdoch ’s No. 2 less than a
year ago, has emerged to lead negotiations on the biggest
acquisition in the company’s history.  
 Carey is pursuing a deal Murdoch has desired for years, as
News Corp. bids for the 61 percent of  British Sky Broadcasting
Plc  it doesn’t own. After making his mark as CEO of  DirecTV
Group Inc.,  Carey is trying to win over directors of BSkyB. The
U.K.’s largest pay-TV provider, BSkyB says the 7.8 billion-pound
($11.5 billion) bid needs to be raised at least 14 percent.  
 “Rupert has a lot of confidence in Chase,” said  Alan Gould , an analyst at Soleil Securities who owns some News Corp.
shares. “This is exactly what he brought Chase in to do.”  
 For Murdoch, who has held a stake in BSkyB for more than
two decades, taking full control of BSkyB would help reap the
rewards of a faster-growing investment. News Corp.  sales rose  28
percent in the five years through June 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. BSkyB had  revenue growth  of 39 percent.  
 The value of News Corp.’s investment has more than doubled
since the London-based company’s initial public offering on Dec.
8, 1994. The U.K. company’s shares have also outperformed those
of News Corp., which dropped by about a fifth in the last five
years. In contrast, BSkyB shares rose 18 percent, not including
the 17 percent gain after News Corp.’s offer.  
 Carey, 56, who’s sported a handlebar moustache since
playing rugby at Colgate University, has called the current bid
“full and fair.”  
 DirecTV Experience  
 “He’s very good at isolating what the key issues are
quickly,” said  Derek Chang , DirecTV’s executive vice president
of content strategy and development, who worked for Carey for
three years. In negotiations, “he would try to line things up
in a way to best take advantage,” Chang said.  
 Carey previously spent 14 years at News Corp., ending as
co-COO in January 2002. Murdoch, News Corp.’s 79-year-old
chairman and CEO, bought a controlling stake in late 2003 in
Hughes Electronics Corp., later renamed  DirecTV Group Inc. , and
installed Carey as CEO.  
 There he invested in high-definition TV, switching two
satellites to HD capacity instead of providing Internet service.
The move gave the El Segundo, California-based company, the
largest U.S. satellite-TV distributor, a jump on competitors
with HD channels that helped attract 6 million additional U.S.
subscribers, bringing the total to more than 18 million, and
boost the share price about 50 percent during his tenure.  
 “When he ran DirecTV, it was probably the best managed
satellite operator in the world at that time,” Gould said.  
 Rejoining News Corp.  
 News Corp. sold its stake in DirecTV to Liberty Media Corp.
in 2008. Carey rejoined News Corp. as COO in July 2009 after
 Peter Chernin  departed. Carey was in London and unavailable for
comment,  Teri Everett , a spokeswoman for News Corp., said today.  
 It was Carey and Chief Financial Officer  David DeVoe  who
took questions from analysts on a call yesterday, not Murdoch,
who led News Corp.’s purchases of Dow Jones & Co. and MySpace.
One analyst asked about the boss’ absence.  
 “You can be assured Rupert was actively involved,” Carey
responded, without elaborating.  
 James Murdoch , Rupert Murdoch’s 37-year-old son, won’t
participate in the talks because he is both BSkyB’s non-
executive chairman and the head of News Corp.’s operations in
Europe and Asia.  
 BSkyB’s independent directors said they may accept an offer
of more than 800 pence a share, higher than the 700 pence a
share News Corp. offered. BSkyB, formed in 1990, has about 9.77
million subscribers, drawn in part by the company’s exclusive
live rights to popular events such as Premier League, England’s
top soccer league.  
 Odds of Success  
 “Distribution assets are Carey’s sweet spot,” said Fitch
Ratings analyst  Mike Simonton . “He and James Murdoch are likely
to play an important role in News Corp.’s potential expansion of
distribution assets globally.”  
 There’s a 75 percent chance Carey will reach a deal with
BSkyB if regulators approve the combination,  Julien Roch , an
analyst with Barclays Capital, wrote in a research report today,
though timing and price are still up in the air.  
 Carey’s moustache may be the best-known aspect of a man
who’s kept his private life private. He lives in Connecticut and
keeps details about his wife and children close to the vest at
work. Executives who worked with him for years said they aren’t
sure how many kids he has. He’s known as an avid fan of the New
York Yankees baseball team and football’s New York Giants.  
 “For being the media mogul that he is, he’s an extremely
down to earth guy,” DirecTV’s Chang said. “He’s not flashy.
He’s not trying to be out in front of Hollywood.”  
 Harvard MBA  
 Carey, who’s based at News Corp.’s New York headquarters,
is there about half the time. The balance he spends in Los
Angeles and at the company’s European and Asian operations.  
 Carey received his bachelor’s degree in math and economics
from Colgate in 1976 and went onto to earn his MBA from Harvard
University in 1981.  
 In December, News Corp. raised its stake in  Sky Deutschland
AG , Germany’s biggest pay-TV service, to more than 45 percent.
Carey joined the board of Sky Deutschland in April.  
 News Corp. and BSkyB have agreed to seek regulatory
approval together, which could take six months or more, as they
hash out a price. The deal may boost earnings by 17 percent to
$1.33 a share in fiscal 2011, according to RBC Capital Markets
analyst David Bank.  
 Carey’s disciplined approach has assuaged News Corp.
shareholders, who may have otherwise been hoping for a share
buyback, now on hold until debt is reduced following the deal,
Bank said in an interview. News Corp. said it will raise about
$4 billion in debt and won’t issue stock to fund the purchase.  
 Investor Reaction  
 “They said they made a full and fair offer, which was a
positive, and it doesn’t sound like they are going to
necessarily reach to acquire it,” Bank said. “The fact that
the offer is nonbinding leaves them with the chance to get out
of it if they want.”  
 News Corp. rose 9.5 percent yesterday, the most in 15
months, in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . BSkyB shares jumped 17
percent yesterday, the biggest gain in more than 10 years.  
 News Corp., also the owner of the Wall Street Journal, fell
21 cents to $14.16 at 4 p.m. New York time today. BSkyB added a
penny to 701 pence.  
 BSkyB is a business model Carey knows well. As co-COO of
News Corp., he helped the company expand its television business
internationally, acquire sports rights and oversaw worldwide
satellite operations. At DirecTV, he negotiated exclusive sports
programming deals, including with the National Football League.  
 “It’s no surprise that he’s looking to increase the
business exposure they have to the business he knows best,”
said  Richard Greenfield , an analyst with BTIG LLC. “All deals
flow from Rupert, but I think from an operating standing point,
Chase has done a great job even in the relatively short period
he’s been back.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Jason Subotky, an investment manager at Yacktman Asset Management Co., a shareholder of News Corp., talks about News Corp.'s effort to acquire British Sky Broadcasting Plc and the company's cash strategy.
     Subotky talks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- David Joyce, an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co., talks about Rupert Murdoch's efforts to charge for online content and News Corp.'s offer to take full control of British Sky Broadcasting Plc.
     Joyce talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Alex DeGroote, media analyst at Panmure Gordon, talks about News Corp.'s 7.8 billion-pound ($11.5 billion) offer for the remaining 61 percent of British Sky Broadcasting Plc's shares.
     He speaks on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse with Andrea Catherwood." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
