-- Nintendo Shares Advance Following Introduction of 3-D Video Game Player
-- Mariko Yasu
-- 2010-06-16T02:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/nintendo-shares-advance-after-company-introduces-3-d-handheld-game-machine.html

          
          
             Nintendo Co. , the world’s biggest
maker of portable video-game players, rose the most in almost
three months in Osaka trading after the company unveiled a
handheld machine that lets users see 3-D images without wearing
special glasses.  
 The stock rose as much as 5.9 percent to 26,700 yen, the
biggest rise in intraday trading since March 24, and changed
hands for 26,400 yen as of the 11 a.m. midday break. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 1.6 percent.  
 Nintendo and video-game machine rival  Sony Corp.  introduced
3-D products yesterday as consumer-electronics makers adopt the
technology to revive earnings. Game publishers including
 Activision Blizzard Inc. ,  Electronic Arts Inc. , Ubisoft
Entertainment SA and Konami Corp. are making games for the new
device, the companies said.  
 The 3DS “will probably sell well,” said  Etsuko Tamura , a
Tokyo-based analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. “They
are starting with hit titles like ‘Metal Gear Solid,’ so that
should give gamers reason to buy the console,” said Tamura, who
 rates  Nintendo ‘neutral plus’.  
 Nintendo, based in Kyoto, will start selling the 3DS player
by March 2011, President  Satoru Iwata  said in an interview
yesterday. A price for the device, which is equipped with three
cameras and a motion sensor, hasn’t been set, he said.  
 Sony, Microsoft  
 Sony demonstrated PlayStation 3 titles with 3-D
capabilities and added a new motion-activated controller like
those uses with Nintendo’s Wii at the game conference yesterday.
Microsoft Corp. earlier this week showed motion-sensing
technology that lets people play games on its Xbox 360 console
without a controller.  
 Shares in Sony, based in Tokyo, rose 1.5 percent to 2,653
yen as of 11 a.m.  
 DS handheld sales worldwide will rise 11 percent to 30
million from 27.1 million in the year ending March, the game
maker forecast last month. By comparison, global sales of its
flagship Wii will probably fall 12 percent to 18 million units,
after declining for the first time last fiscal year, it said.  
 “Nintendo added higher specifications for the 3DS and
managed to attract big action game titles which had been popular
among Sony’s PlayStations Portable users,” said  Hideki Yasuda ,
a Tokyo-based analyst at Ace Securities Co. “It was a surprise
to see a number of third-party game titles for the 3DS.”  
 “Resident Evil” by  Capcom Co.  is among such titles,
Yasuda said. “Sony may struggle to boost PSP sales during the
yearend shopping season if Nintendo starts selling 3DS by
then,” he said.  
 Sony Losses  
 Sony, whose game unit has posted  losses  for four
consecutive fiscal years, aims to restore the business’s
profitability during the current year, which runs through the
end of March.  
 The company’s new controller will sell for $49.99, while a
companion navigation piece is priced at $29.99, Sony said
yesterday at E3. The device will be released on Sept. 15 in
Europe, four days later in the U.S., and on Oct. 21 in Japan,
the company said.  
 More than 40 games for the new controller will be available
for the U.S. holiday season, with Sony-owned games costing
$39.99, the company said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        