-- Nokia Lowers Forecasts Amid IPhone Competition
-- Diana ben-Aaron
-- 2010-06-16T15:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/nokia-lowers-forecasts-amid-iphone-competition-in-smartphones-weaker-euro.html

          
          
             Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest
maker of mobile phones, cut its outlook for sales and margins,
hurt by competition in high-end phones from  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone
and devices based on Google Inc.’s Android software.  
 Second-quarter handset revenue and margins will be “at the
lower end of or slightly below” its earlier forecast range of 9
to 12 percent, the Espoo, Finland-based  company  said in a
statement today, also citing a weaker euro. Nokia cut its
outlook for 2010 for the second time this year.  
 “This does not help in restoring investor confidence and
credibility of the management,”  Sami Sarkamies , an analyst at
Nordea Bank, wrote in a note to clients. “Chosen strategy and
more importantly its implementation will be questioned.”  
 Nokia Chief Executive Officer  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo  has
struggled to deliver on a touchscreen model that meets user
expectations raised by the iPhone. The N8, Nokia’s newest
touchscreen smartphone, is scheduled to be released in the third
quarter. The device has been too slow in the making and may
still disappoint, analysts have said.  
 Nokia  fell  9 percent to 7.22 euros in Helsinki, its lowest
level since March 9, 2009. The stock drop puts the market value
of Nokia, once an iconic technology name, at about 27 billion
euros ($33.3 billion),  below  the $34.4 billion of rival Research
In Motion Ltd. and Apple’s $240 billion.  
 ‘Painful Transition’  
 “Somehow they’ve lost the sense of understanding of where
the market is going,” said  Bengt Nordstrom , an analyst at
Northstream AB in Stockholm. “There was a time when Nokia
dictated for the industry how a mobile phone should look and
function. Now, they have strong competition from other players,
particularly from Apple.”  
 CEO Kallasvuo did not speak on the company’s conference
call today.  
 “We know that we are going through a painful transition in
high-end devices,” Chief Financial Officer  Timo Ihamuotila  said
on the call. The company’s N series, with its most expensive
touchscreens, has been “disappointing” while the ramp-up of
the X series music phones was “somewhat challenging,” he said.  
 The market share of Symbian, Nokia’s main smartphone
operating system, fell to 44.3 percent in the first quarter from
48.8 percent a year ago, according to market researcher Gartner.
Although mostly  on Nokia  phones, Symbian is also used by Samsung
Electronics Co. and Sony Ericsson. iPhone’s share rose to 15.4
percent from 10.5 percent, while Android soared to 9.6 percent
from 1.6 percent.  
 Low End  
 While the company is losing high-end, high-margin customers
to the iPhone, RIM’s  BlackBerry , and phones running  Google ’s
Android software, it is also facing mounting competition in the
low-end market from cheaper devices from Chinese and other
manufacturers.  
 Competition at the low end is “very tough” and the third
quarter “will continue to be challenging,” Ihamuotila said,
without giving specific guidance on the quarter.  
 Nokia said its full-year adjusted margin forecast for
handsets would be “at the low end of or below” the previous
forecast of 11 to 13 percent.  
 “The biggest disappointment is in the scale of the margin
miss,” said  Stuart Jeffrey , a London-based analyst with Nomura
who has a “neutral” rating on Nokia. “That’s why the stock is
down so much. Consensus was in the middle of the range Nokia had
provided.”  
 Market Share  
 Sales in the devices and services division may fall below
6.7 billion euros in the second quarter as the company’s product
mix shifted toward less-profitable midrange and low-end phones,
Nokia said.  
 Nokia said it expects its full-year share of industry
revenue, known as “value market share” to be slightly less
than in 2009.  
 It had forecast its value market share to grow slightly. It
repeated a forecast of flat market share in units.  
 The company lowered its devices margins  forecasts  on April
22 to between 9 and 12 percent for the quarter and between 11
and 13 percent for the year, from 12 to 14 percent earlier.  
 Sales are also being hit by the weaker euro, the company
said. The 16-nation currency has weakened 14 percent this year
against the dollar.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A model of the Nokia X6 mobile handset sits on display with a Nokia's E72 mobile handset at  in London. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
