-- Nokia Misses Smartphone Boom as Customers Flock to IPhone
-- Diana ben-Aaron
-- 2010-06-16T22:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/nokia-sits-out-smartphone-revolution-as-customers-flock-to-apple-iphone-4.html

          
          
             As  Apple Inc.  struggles to meet
demand for the latest version of the iPhone,  Nokia Oyj  is still
waiting to ship its only model that may compete.  
 The Finnish company has announced just one handset, the N8,
from its new high-end line based on revamped Symbian 3 software,
while Apple’s recently unveiled iPhone 4 is flying off virtual
shelves with 600,000 pre-orders and other vendors are rolling
out models with  Google Inc. ’s Android software.  
 “The smartphone revolution has started and Nokia is not
there,” said  Helena Nordman-Knutson , a Stockholm-based analyst
at Oehman. The N8 “will be old when it’s out because everybody
has taken the next step.”  
 The world’s largest mobile-phone maker yesterday lowered
revenue and margin forecasts, citing competition in the high-end
smartphone market and showing that its fortunes in the
application-rich iPhone segment may not turn before 2011. Chief
Executive Officer  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo  has struggled to deliver
on a touchscreen model on a par with the Apple device.  
 Nokia said in April that the N8 will be shipped sometime in
the third quarter. It is also slated to introduce a second line
of high-end devices running the MeeGo operating system developed
with Intel Corp. at an unspecified date this year.  
 Investors punished Nokia, sending its  shares down  9 percent
to 7.22 euros in Helsinki yesterday, the lowest level since
March 9, 2009. The stock drop put the market value of Nokia at
27 billion euros ($33.3 billion), below the $34.4 billion of
rival  Research In Motion Ltd.  and Apple’s $240 billion.  
 Margin Forecasts  
 Nokia yesterday said its second-quarter handset revenue and
margins will be “at the lower end of or slightly below” its
earlier forecast range of 9 to 12 percent. The Espoo, Finland-
based company also cut its outlook for 2010 for the second time
this year. The full-year adjusted operating margin in handsets
could come in below the 11 to 13 percent range forecast earlier,
mainly because of its weakness in high-end smartphones, it said.  
 Sales  in the devices and services division may fall below
6.7 billion euros in the second quarter, Nokia said.  
 The lowered outlook is “an implicit statement that the
Symbian user experience won’t be fixed this year and MeeGo won’t
arrive in time to make a difference to 2010 either,”  Gartner
Inc.  analyst  Nick Jones  said in e-mailed comments.  
 ‘Out of Patience’  
 The less-than-perfect implementation of the company’s
strategy might prompt calls for management changes, he said.  
 “It’s looking now as if 2010 won’t be the year in which
Nokia’s problems get fixed and I suspect investors are running
out of patience and will want to hold someone accountable,” he
said. “That makes me wonder if the recent reorganization may
not be the last of the executive changes we’ll see in 2010.”  
 The company never comments on speculation, said Nokia
spokeswoman  Arja Suominen . On May 11, Nokia said it was
promoting Anssi Vanjoki, a 20-year company veteran, to head a
new smartphone division.  
 Nokia’s outlook showed that the company’s fortunes are not
likely to charge in the immediate future, analysts said.  
 “What this did is crystallize people’s awareness that the
portfolio in the third quarter is not going to be that much
better than in the second,” said  Stuart Jeffrey , an analyst at
Nomura Securities. “So it’s all or nothing in the fourth
quarter.”  
 The  company  expects the fourth-quarter margin to rise above
the average for the year, Chief Financial Officer  Timo Ihamuotila  said in a teleconference yesterday.  
 Not About Volumes  
 “The smartphone unit is in trouble and has been for
basically two years now,” said  Tero Kuittinen , an analyst at
Greenwich, Conn.-based MKM Partners. “The question is whether
they can stabilize the situation there and I think they have a
shot at doing it in the second half of the year.  
 Nokia held on to its smartphone market share of 41 percent
in the first quarter as it introduced cheaper models and trimmed
prices. It expects its share of industry handset revenue to
decline this year, after earlier saying it would increase. It
still expects unit market share to be flat.  
 “It’s not about volumes anymore -- the competition is
taking place over the money,” Nordman-Knutson said. “Of course
you can take market share by redefining the smartphone segment
and adding volume through massive price reductions.”  
 The market share of Symbian, Nokia’s main smartphone
operating system, fell to 44.3 percent in the first quarter from
48.8 percent a year ago, according to market researcher Gartner.
Although mostly on Nokia phones, Symbian is also used by Samsung
Electronics Co. and Sony Ericsson. IPhone’s share rose to 15.4
percent from 10.5 percent, while Android soared to 9.6 percent
from 1.6 percent.  
 Not ‘Fully Baked’  
 The N8 will enter the market at 370 euros ($443), about a
third lower than the 550-euro price tag of the N97, last year’s
flagship device. The company has unveiled low-end smartphones
phones costing as little as 135 euros this year.  
 CFO Ihamuotila said that the company is aiming for multiple
Symbian 3 products in the second half, not just the N8.  
 Nokia allowed some handset reviewers to demo the N8 at
events in London and Singapore this week. The events were
followed by a spate of blog posts on the device.  
 “Nokia has put together a growling multimedia powerhouse,
but the OS is so far from being fully baked; we can still see
the dough,” Engadget, a closely followed blog said.  
 SlashGear, another popular blog, said the device was
“decently peppy,” adding that it “isn’t perfect yet.”  
 “It doesn’t mean Nokia will never come back, but it does
say they will not come back in 2010 or not before the fourth
quarter,” said Nordman-Knutson. “We can’t expect one single
phone to change the world for them.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Nokia N8 smartphone. Source: Nokia via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Chief Executive Officer Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo has struggled to deliver on a touchscreen model on a par with the Apple device. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
