-- Nomura's Sun Says China Property `Bubble' Will Burst; Prices to Drop 20%
-- Rishaad Salamat
-- 2010-06-16T02:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/nomura-s-sun-says-china-property-bubble-will-burst-prices-to-drop-20-.html

          
          
             The “bubble” in China’s property
market is going to burst very quickly, with prices set to fall
as much as 20 percent in the next 12 to 18 months, according to
Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 National real-estate prices may drop between 10 percent and
20 percent on average, compared with an increase of about 22
percent last year,  Sun Mingchun , a Hong Kong-based economist at
Nomura, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  
 “If you look at housing prices to disposable income in
Beijing and Shanghai, they are 13, 14 times,” said Sun, whose
team was ranked third in Institutional Investor’s 2010 Asian
poll for China research. “There’s no way you can say there’s no
bubble.”  
 Real-estate prices jumped 12.4 percent across 70 cities in
May, adding to the 12.8 percent surge in April that was the most
since the data series began in 2005. The gains suggest that
measures ranging from a ban on loans for third-home purchases to
higher mortgage rates and downpayment requirements for second-
home purchases have yet to cool the real-estate market.  
 Stephen Roach , chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd., said
the government’s measures are working “by all accounts.”
China’s property boom isn’t a bubble because it’s supported by
“solid” demand for residential housing, he said. While
portions of the real-estate market such as high-end apartments
are overheating, demand for homes will remain robust as rural
Chinese migrate to bigger cities, he said in a radio interview
from Hong Kong with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance.  
 Sliver of Boom  
 “This is just a sliver of the property boom,” Roach said,
citing that each year since 2000, between 15 and 20 million
people migrate to Beijing, Shanghai, and second- and third-tier
cities in mainland China. That’s 2 1/2 New York Cities created
annually, he said. “This underpins a huge demand for
residential property. This property has not overheated and the
demand for this property is very, very solid.”  
 The  China Banking Regulatory Commission  warned of growing
credit risks in the nation’s real-estate industry and increasing
pressures of non-performing loans. Risks associated with home
mortgages are growing and a “chain effect” may reappear in
real-estate development loans, according to its annual report
published on its website yesterday.  
 China’s domestic stock markets have been closed for a
three-day holiday since the start of the week. The  Shanghai
Composite Index  has fallen 22 percent this year, the worst
performer in Asia. A gauge tracking property stocks on the
benchmark measure has declined 28 percent, the most among five
industry groups.  
 The quality of bank loans may be better than data suggests
because many of the debts are so-called local government loans
that will be “taken care” of by the central administration,
Nomura’s Sun said. Consumption growth will help drive the
nation’s economy, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Workers labor on a construction site for a residential development in Shanghai. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
