-- Norwegian Premier Urges Euro Region Leaders to Safeguard Economic Growth
-- James G. Neuger
-- 2010-06-16T12:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/norwegian-premier-urges-euro-region-leaders-to-safeguard-economic-growth.html

          
          
             Norway’s Prime Minister  Jens Stoltenberg  urged euro region leaders to safeguard economic
growth and avoid further increases in unemployment as they cut
fiscal spending to reduce sovereign debt levels.  
 “The challenge is to be able to reduce the high deficits
without contracting the economy and causing a new increase in
unemployment,” Stoltenberg said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Brussels today.  
 Norway, the world’s sixth-largest oil exporter and the only
Scandinavian country outside the European Union, returned to
 growth  earlier than its neighbors after suffering a milder
recession. Since then, the country’s key trading partners have
pledged to step up consolidation efforts in the wake of the euro
region’s debt crisis. Austerity measures threaten to crimp a
recovery in the European Union, reducing demand for exports.  
 “We are very concerned and are following the development
in the European economy very closely because we are so dependent
on the development in the European economy,” Stoltenberg said.  
 The European Commission today called on governments to take
“ambitious” steps to push down budget deficits and said some
debt-burdened countries may have to use “cold shower”
consolidation plans.  
 The euro region’s average deficit may widen to 6.6 percent
of gross domestic product this year from 6.3 percent in 2009,
the European Commission said on May 5.  
 Some European nations risk a “double dip” economic
slowdown if the region fails to resolve its debt crisis, the
World Bank said on June 10.  
 European leaders unveiled a 750 billion-euro ($910 billion)
rescue mechanism last month to stem contagion from Greece.  
 For Related News and Information:
European economic coverage: TNI ECO EU <GO>
Economic indicator watch: ECOW EU <GO>
Euro-region economic stories: TNI ECO EUROP <GO>  
          
          


  


        