-- Obama Says BP Agrees on $20 Billion Oil-Spill Fund
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-06-16T21:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/obama-says-bp-agrees-on-20-billion-escrow-fund-for-gulf-oil-spill-damages.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said  BP Plc 
will put $20 billion over four years into an oil spill
compensation fund that will be independently administered by
lawyer  Kenneth Feinberg .  
 The fund won’t cap  BP’s  liability for cleanup costs and
economic damage, Obama said after he and some of his top
advisers met with BP executives at the White House, and it won’t
supersede the rights of individuals or states to sue the
company. The company also will contribute $100 million to a fund
to help support unemployed oil rig workers.  
 “This $20 billion will provide substantial assurance that
the claims people and businesses have will be honored,” Obama
said. “The people of the gulf have my commitment that BP will
meet its obligations to them.”  
 BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  said after emerging from
the meeting that the London-based company is canceling quarterly
payments of its $10-billion-a-year dividend for the rest of the
year. He also issued an apology to the American public for the
spill from a BP well in the Gulf of Mexico, the biggest in U.S.
history.  
 “We made it clear to the president that words are not
enough,” Svanberg said outside the White House. “We understand
that we will and we should be judged by our actions.”  
 Shares Rise  
 BP’s American depositary  receipts  were up 45 cents to
$31.85 in New York trading. Earlier they touched $33. The shares
are down 46 percent since the April 20 explosion aboard the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that killed 11 workers and
triggered the oil spill.  
 Obama said he is confident the company will be able to pay
claims.  
 “BP is a strong and viable company, and it is in all of
our interests that it remain so,” he said.  
 The agreement was announced after almost four hours of
meetings between administration officials and company
representatives, who also included Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward ,  Lamar McKay , president of BP America Inc.,  Robert Dudley , BP managing director, and company lawyers.  
 Among the administration officials in the meetings were
Attorney General  Eric Holder , chief of staff  Rahm Emanuel ,
 Lawrence Summers , head of the National Economic Council,  Bob Bauer , chief lawyer to the president, and  Carol Browner , the
president’s adviser on energy and climate change.  
 Apology at Meeting  
 Svanberg began his remarks at the meeting with an apology
and separately spent 25 minutes alone with the president in the
Oval Office, Browner said at a briefing afterward.  
 Obama said during their private conversation he emphasized
to Svanberg that for the families and small business owners in
the gulf region “this is not just a matter of dollars and
cents.”  
 “A lot of these folks don’t have a cushion” and still
were recovering from the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita
and the recession, Obama said he told Svanberg.  
 “This season was going to be the season where they were
going to be bouncing back,” he said. “Some of them, if they
don’t get relief quickly, may lose businesses that have been in
their families for two or three generations.”  
 Svanberg said he understood the frustration expressed by
the president and gulf residents.  
 ‘We Care’  
 “I hear comments sometimes that large oil companies are,
are greedy companies or don’t care, but that is not the case in
BP,” Svanberg said. “We care about the small people.”  
 Obama is tapping Feinberg to act as an independent third
party to judge claims and authorize payments to gulf coast
residents affected by the oil spill. Obama previously named
Feinberg in June 2009 to oversee executive pay at companies that
received aid from the Treasury Department’s $700 billion
Troubled Asset Relief Program.  
 He is managing partner of law firm Feinberg Rozen LLP in
Washington. Feinberg, 64, has spent his career resolving legal
claims, including settlements for those affected by the
defoliant Agent Orange in Vietnam, the Dalkon Shield birth-
control device, and the 2007 Virginia Tech shootings that killed
32 people.  
 The amount for the fund is in line with what Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, had suggested
that BP set aside to compensate residents and businesses
affected by the spill, which is threatening the shorelines and
economies of four states.  
 Leak Estimates  
 The government yesterday increased its estimate of the
amount of oil gushing from a damaged BP well to 35,000 to 60,000
barrels a day.  
 Based on the low end of the estimate, BP well may have
leaked 1.99 million barrels so far. That exceeds the 262,000
barrels spilled by the Exxon Valdez in 1989 and the U.S. record
300,000-barrel spill by a tanker off the Oregon coast in 1968,
according to statistics from the American Petroleum Institute.  
 Obama has called the BP leak “the worst environmental
disaster America has ever faced.”  
 The accident prompted Obama to declare a six-month
moratorium on deepwater offshore oil drilling and under the
agreement reached today BP contribute to a fund for oil workers
who lost jobs because of that.  
 BP has spent about $1.6 billion on containing and cleaning
up the spill so far. The company’s spending for cleanup and
liabilities may reach $40 billion, Standard Chartered Plc
estimated last week.  
 BP’s payments accounted for about 14 percent of all
dividends in the U.K.’s benchmark FTSE 100 stock index last
year. Fitch Ratings yesterday lowered BP’s credit score by six
grades to BBB, two levels above junk, on concern costs will
escalate.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rruningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama speaks during a nationally televised address from the White House in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Tuesday, June 15, 2010. Photographer: Jim Lo Scalzo/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee from Washington about President Barack Obama’s response to the oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico, and the six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling.
     Obama said BP Plc's will put $20 billion over four years into an oil spill compensation fund that will be independently administered by lawyer Kenneth Feinberg. The fund won’t cap BP’s liability for cleanup costs and economic damage, Obama said after he and some of his top advisers met with BP executives at the White House, and it won’t supersede the rights of individuals or states to sue the company. The company also will contribute $100 million to a fund to help support unemployed oil rig workers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
