-- Obama Says Spill Shows U.S. Must Cut Oil `Addiction'
-- Catherine Dodge
-- 2010-06-16T03:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/obama-says-bp-gulf-spill-is-a-call-to-action-to-cut-addiction-to-oil.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said the
Gulf of Mexico oil spill is an urgent call for action to cut
U.S. dependence on fossil fuels and vowed that  BP Plc  will be
required to spend whatever is needed to repair damage caused by
the company’s “recklessness.”  
 “For decades, we have talked and talked about the need to
end America’s century-long addiction to fossil fuels,” Obama
said in a speech tonight, his first national address delivered
from the Oval Office. “And for decades, we have failed to act
with the sense of urgency that this challenge requires.”  
 Obama said he will tell BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg 
in a White House meeting tomorrow that the London-based company
must set aside “whatever resources are required to compensate
the workers and business owners who have been harmed as a
result of his company’s recklessness.”  
 That fund must be administered by an independent third
party to make sure claims of economic damage are paid “in a
fair and timely manner,” he said.  
 The oil gushing from a damaged BP well in the Gulf is
threatening the shores of four states, and a team of scientists
today raised the estimate of the leak rate to 35,000 to 60,000
barrels a day.  
 Higher Estimates  
 It was the fifth increase in the official estimate of the
leak, which began at 1,000 barrels a day. The spill began after
the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon sank April 22, two days
after the well it was drilling for BP exploded, killing 11
crew.  
 Based on the low end of the estimate, the BP well may have
leaked 1.99 million barrels so far. That exceeds the 262,000
barrels spilled by the Exxon Valdez in 1989 and the U.S. record
300,000-barrel spill by a tanker off the Oregon coast in 1968,
according to statistics from the American Petroleum Institute.  
 Obama called the BP leak “the worst environmental
disaster America has ever faced.”  
 The president said in the coming weeks, BP should be
capturing as much as 90 percent of the oil spewing into the
Gulf and that relief wells to be completed later this summer
are “expected to stop the leak completely.”  
 “But we have to recognize that, despite our best efforts,
oil has already caused damage to our coastline and its
wildlife,” he said. “And sadly, no matter how effective our
response is, there will be more oil and more damage before this
siege is done.”  
 BP Liabilities  
 The British bank  Standard Chartered Plc  estimated BP’s
liabilities in the spill at about $40 billion. By comparison,
 Exxon Mobil Corp.  paid $4.8 billion in cleanup costs, fines,
punitive damages and interest for the 1989 incident.  
 BP fell today to its lowest price in 13 years, down 48
percent from the day the oil rig blew up. The cost to protect
$10 million of BP debt for a year reached $695,000, according
to CMA DataVision. It was $29,000 on April 30. The shares fell
13.45 pence to 342 pence in London trading, the lowest price
since April 1997.  
 The yield on BP’s $750 million of 1.55 percent notes due
in 2011 rose to 8.796 percent today and the price dropped 2.1
cents to 92.25 cents on the dollar, the lowest on record,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The bonds traded the
most ever, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Fitch Ratings cut BP’s credit rating six notches today to
two levels above junk on concern over the potential cost of
cleaning up the spill and meeting future liabilities. Standard
and Poor’s downgraded BP by one level last week.  
 Focus on Spill  
 With  polls  showing public dissatisfaction with the
government’s response, Obama is spending the bulk of this week
focused on the spill and its aftermath. That includes making a
two-day visit to the Gulf coast that ended today, tonight’s
speech and a meeting tomorrow with Svanberg and other company
officials where the president is seeking to wrap up an
agreement for BP on creating and administering a compensation
fund.  
 The administration hasn’t put a figure on the fund, while
Senate Democrats have called for the company to set aside $20
billion. BP reported  profit  of about $16.6 billion and paid $10
billion in dividends to its shareholders last year.  
 Crucial Talks  
 Along with the size of the fund, no decision has been
reached on who will select its independent administrator. White
House officials, briefing reporters on the condition of
anonymity, said tomorrow’s meeting with BP executives will be
crucial to settling those issues.  
 BP said in an e-mailed statement that the company shared
the president’s goals of shutting off the well, cleaning up the
Gulf and mitigating the economic impact. “We look forward to
meeting with President Obama tomorrow for a constructive
discussion about how best to achieve these mutual goals,” the
statement said.  
 To deal with the aftermath of the spill, Obama said he’s
asked Navy Secretary  Ray Mabus , the former governor of
Mississippi to develop a restoration plan for the Gulf region.
Obama repeated that “BP will pay for the impact this spill has
had on the region.”  
 Obama also named former Justice Department official
 Michael Bromwich  to revamp federal management of offshore oil
and gas exploration as part of an effort to clean up an agency
he says has been plagued by corruption and a “cozy”
relationship with the industry it regulates.  
 Obama tonight reiterated his backing for legislation that
would encourage development of alternative energy sources and
aim to reduce U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions.  
 ‘Powerful Reminder’  
 “The tragedy unfolding on our coast is the most painful
and powerful reminder yet that the time to embrace a clean
energy future is now,” Obama said.  
 Legislation reducing emissions through a cap-and-trade
program has stalled in the Senate after narrowly being approved
by the House of Representatives last year.  
 Under the proposals, industries would buy and sell a
declining number of pollution rights, eventually reducing the
nation’s emissions by 17 percent this decade from 2005 levels.  
 The legislation would also encourage more offshore
drilling for oil and natural gas, which Obama endorsed in March
when he called for the lifting of drilling restrictions in
areas in the Gulf of Mexico, the Atlantic and off the coast of
Alaska.  
 Republican Criticism  
 While Democrats endorsed Obama’s call for energy
legislation, Republicans criticized him for using the spill as
an opportunity to stump for a measure they said would harm the
economy.  
 “The president should spend more time focusing on
cleaning up and containing the oil spill and less time trying
to pass a national energy tax that will drive jobs overseas
looking for cheap energy,” Tennessee Senator  Lamar Alexander 
said in a statement.  
 Obama said he recognized that opponents of his approach
say the cost of the transition would be too high. He said he’s
willing to consider any other approaches “as long they
seriously tackle our addiction to fossil fuels.”  
 Still, Democratic lawmakers say passage of a bill that
includes measure to tackle climate change will be difficult to
pass in a congressional election year.  
 The president also sought to demonstrate that the
government’s response has been effective, saying “millions of
gallons of oil have already been removed from the water.” He
also sought to deflect comparisons to the Bush administration’s
botched response to Hurricane Katrina in 2005.  
 “Unlike an earthquake or a hurricane, it is not a single
event that does its damage in a matter of minutes or days,” he
said. “The millions of gallons of oil that have spilled into
the Gulf of Mexico are more like an epidemic, one that we will
be fighting for months and even years.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama speaks during a nationally televised address from the White House in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Tuesday, June 15, 2010. Photographer: Jim Lo Scalzo/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Gordon, a lawyer with Weitz & Luxenberg, talks with Bloomberg's Carol Massar and Matt Miller about the individual claims process stemming from the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Weitz & Luxenberg’s Gordon Discusses BP Litigation: BLAW 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
