-- Obama Kicks Baddest Dog BP in Naked Power Grab: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-06-16T13:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/obama-kicks-baddest-dog-bp-in-naked-power-grab-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             Reports of the death of capitalism
may have been greatly exaggerated following the panic and crisis
of 2008 and the government’s assumption of a bigger role in the
economy. Now I’m not so sure.  
 It’s one thing when the government takes an ownership stake
in a company, as it did with the banks. Then it has the
authority, even a duty to taxpayers, to be involved in
determining how much the company pays out in the form of
dividends to shareholders and how generously it compensates its
executives.  
 When the government has no ownership stake, it has no
business interfering in the inner workings of a company, other
than ensuring compliance with the regulations it has put in
place.  
 President  Barack Obama  wants to change all that. He wants
BP Plc to withhold its dividend in order to pay for the
environmental and economic damage from the Gulf oil spill.
Estimates of the cost of the cleanup and legal liabilities are
as high as $40 billion. BP says it has the resources to do both.
It may not have the stomach to pay a $2.6 billion second-quarter
 dividend  on June 21 in the face of public outrage.  
 Obama wants BP to pay for the lost  wages  of oil industry
workers affected by the moratorium on deepwater drilling -- a
moratorium imposed by the president two months after he opened
up new areas of the coastline to oil and natural gas drilling.
(That way, furloughed workers can be counted in the metric,
“jobs created or saved!”)  
 Regulatory Failure  
 Do we in the U.S. really want the government to tell
publicly owned companies what they can and can’t do?  
 I know what some of you are thinking: When business screws
up, government has to step in to protect the little guy.  
 BP screwed up big time. Based on documents released by the
House of Representatives’ Energy and Commerce Committee, it
sounds as if the company cut corners to save time and money at
the expense of safety. It didn’t have a backup plan in place to
stanch the oil flow if its blowout preventer failed.  
 Regulators -- in this case, the Minerals Management
Service, a bureau of the Interior Department -- screwed up as
well, issuing BP a drilling permit for its Deepwater Horizon
project without requiring the company to submit a blowout
scenario. In addition to MMS’s obvious conflicts of interest in
regulating an industry it collects revenue from for issuing
leases, some of its employees were found to be whooping it up
with industry employees.  
 No Legal Precedent  
 On what basis does Obama claim that BP is responsible for
lost wages?  
 “I don’t think there is any legal precedent that simply
because an employee is put out of work as a result of a
government mandate he is entitled to any compensation,” says
Andy Lang, who practiced labor law at McGlinchey Stafford Pllc,
based in New Orleans, before retiring. “Nothing occurs to me in
terms of a theory under which that would work. He’s trying to
use the bully pulpit.”  
 Exactly. It’s a scare tactic designed to score political
points with some of the faithful who are losing faith in Obama.  
 And it’s a tactic the president employs often. With health
care, financial reform and now the oil spill, Obama resorts to a
who’s-the-baddest-dog strategy, making himself look good by
putting someone else down.  
 One can almost hear the voice of White House Chief of Staff
 Rahm Emanuel  telling the president not to let another crisis go
to waste. True to form, Obama used his first  address  from the
Oval Office last night to promote legislation on clean energy in
the same way he seized on the financial crisis as an excuse for
regulatory reform.  
 Wolves Baying  
 It would be one thing if the reforms created incentives for
regulators to do a better job rather than pile on more rules for
the regulated companies to circumvent. Some changes in the wake
of the banking crisis make more work than sense.  
 For example, federal regulators, primarily pay czar  Ken Feinberg  and the Federal Reserve, now review the compensation
policies of major banks to make sure incentives don’t encourage
short-term risk-taking.  
 What does the Fed know about executive compensation?  
 “It knows that the wolves are at the door,” says  Michael Aronstein , president of Marketfield Capital in New York.  
 Aronstein thinks most of what’s been crammed into financial
regulatory reform could be better achieved by proper incentives.  
 “I’ve never heard a convincing argument why personal
liability isn’t the best risk mitigation technique,” he says.  
 The board and management of a bank would be held
accountable for the risks they take. (Now there’s a fresh idea
in this era of bailouts!) In the case of the biggest banks,
liability would extend to perhaps the hundred highest paid
employees, all of whom would provide a layer of capital,
Aronstein says.  
 Slippery Slope  
 Nothing concentrates the mind like a hanging, and nothing
constrains risk-taking like the prospect of a personal financial
loss. Yet this kind of a market-based check-and-balance never
gets a hearing amid thousands of pages of rules Congress writes.  
 It may be fashionable to claim that free markets don’t work
and bigger government is the answer. It’s not a big leap from
there to the notion that if a little more government is good, a
lot more is better. That’s a slippery slope the U.S. doesn’t
want to go down, even in the face of a huge oil spill.  
 ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        