-- Obama Proposal Targets For-Profit College Recruiters
-- John Hechinger
-- 2010-06-16T13:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/obama-targets-for-profit-college-recruiting-practices-in-proposed-rules.html

          
          
             The Obama administration proposed
banning for-profit colleges from tying recruiters’ pay to the
number of people they enroll, saying high-pressure sales tactics
induced students to take out government loans they can’t afford.  
 The rules would prohibit paying sales incentives at  Apollo
Group  Inc.,  ITT Educational Services  Inc.,  Career Education
Corp . and other for-profit colleges, according to a copy of the
proposal by the U.S.  Department of Education  to be made public
today. At for-profit colleges, recruiters contact potential
students, often after they express interest over the Internet.  
 U.S. Secretary of Education  Arne Duncan  is seeking to
protect taxpayers from loan defaults and to stop students from
taking on debt for programs that don’t lead to higher incomes.
For-profit colleges can receive up to 90 percent of their
revenue from federal grants and loans. Federal aid to for-profit
colleges jumped to $26.5 billion last year from $4.6 billion in
2000, according to the Education Department.  
 “This is about accountability and protecting students,”
Duncan said in a statement.  
 The Obama administration delayed the release of a proposed
rule that would disqualify for-profit colleges from receiving
federal aid if their graduates spend more than 8 percent of
their starting salaries repaying student loans.  
 The Education Department is still analyzing the proposal
and expects to release the rule, known as gainful employment,
between now and August, the agency said in a statement.  
 Industry Opposition  
 For-profit colleges lobbied against the gainful-employment
rule, which could disqualify programs enrolling 300,000
students, according to an April study commissioned by the
Washington-based Career College Association, which represents
more than 1,400 for-profit colleges.  
 Education stocks last week rallied on analysts’ reports
citing the potential delay of the gainful employment rule.
Apollo, based in Phoenix, rose $1.44, or 3 percent, to $49.74 at
9:47 a.m. today in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading .
Career Education, based in Hoffman Estates, Illinois, rose 32
cents, or 1.2 percent, to $27.23. ITT, based in Carmel, Indiana,
rose 34 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $97.52 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Colleges would no longer be allowed to tie recruiters’ pay
to enrollment under any circumstances, according to the new
rules. The current regulations prohibit the practice while
allowing exceptions, or “safe harbors.”  
 ‘Unscrupulous Actors’  
 “Unscrupulous actors routinely rely on these safe
harbors” to get around the law, the Education Department said.
While the proposed rules apply to all colleges, they are
designed to target abuses among for-profits, the department
said.  
 The Education Department’s description of recruiting
violations among for-profits amounts to “a lot of hyperbole,”
 Harris Miller , the Career College Association’s president, said
in an interview. Colleges should be allowed to continue taking
enrollment into account among other factors in compensating
recruiters, Miller said.  
 The new rule on recruiter pay could have a broad impact on
the industry,  Matt Snowling , an analyst with FBR Capital Markets
in Arlington, Virginia, said in a phone interview.  
 “The incentive compensation rule is probably a bigger
threat to the industry than gainful employment,” Snowling said.
“By limiting the schools ability to market themselves, it takes
away some of their ability to grow.”  
 Apollo Settlements  
 Apollo’s University of Phoenix last December agreed to pay
$67.5 million to the U.S. and $11 million in legal fees to
plaintiffs to settle a whistleblower suit arising from
allegations from former employees that that company improperly
paid recruiters based on enrollment numbers. Apollo admitted no
wrongdoing. The company, without admitting fault, paid $9.8
million in 2004 to the Department of Education to settle similar
claims.  
 Apollo started reviewing recruiter compensation 18 months
ago, with a focus on “enhancing student satisfaction and
student experience,” spokeswoman Sara Jones said in an e-mail.  
 “We anticipate that our new compensation will be in
compliance with the forthcoming regulations by the U.S.
Department of Education but cannot confirm until the rules are
finalized,” Jones said.  
 Today’s proposed rules also would require colleges to
disclose information about employment prospects to students and
strengthen the Education Department’s authority to take action
against institutions engaging in “deceptive, marketing and
sales practices,” the department said in a statement. The
proposed rules, being issued for public comment, could be made
final November 1 and take effect in July 2011.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        