-- Obama Says Spill a Call to Action to Cut Oil `Addiction'
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-06-16T05:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/obama-says-gulf-coast-to-be-restored-vows-bp-will-pay-for-recklessness-.html

          
          
             As devastation from the worst U.S.
oil spill mounts, President  Barack Obama  vowed that  BP Plc  will
pay for all damage caused by its “recklessness” and that the
government would commit to restoring the Gulf Coast.  
 “We will fight this spill with everything we’ve got,”
Obama said last night in his first address to the nation from
the Oval Office. “We will make BP pay for the damage their
company has caused. And we will do whatever’s necessary to help
the Gulf Coast and its people recover from this tragedy.”  
 Almost two months into the environmental disaster, Obama
sought to reassure Americans as BP’s blown-out well continues
spewing crude into the sea, threatening livelihoods and
economies in the coastal states.  
 Underscoring his message, Obama named U.S. Navy Secretary
 Ray Mabus , a “son of the Gulf” and former governor of
Mississippi, to oversee the region’s recovery. The president
also appointed a former Justice Department inspector general,
 Michael Bromwich , to recast the criticized federal agency that
oversees oil drilling as a “watchdog” instead of a “partner”
with the oil industry.  
 Obama drew on the flood of crude as a rallying call for
action on “clean energy” legislation to ease the nation’s
dependence on oil.  
 White House Meeting  
 He said he will tell BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  in a
White House meeting today that the London-based company must set
aside “whatever resources are required to compensate the
workers and business owners who have been harmed as a result of
his company’s recklessness.”  
 Susan MacManus , a political scientist at the University of
South Florida in Tampa, said the speech would do little to ease
concerns of the region’s residents.  
 “They were looking for more tangibles and evidence that
some of the organizational issues have been worked out,” she
said in an interview. “They were hoping to have more tangibles
on specific relief and deadlines.”  
 Ross Baker , a political science professor at Rutgers
University in New Brunswick, New Jersey, said Obama accomplished
what he needed to and called the speech a “turning point.”  
 “He showed flashes of anger and he was certainly
compassionate and understanding,” Baker said. “He rose to the
occasion.”  
 60,000 Barrels  
 The oil gushing from the well is threatening the shores of
four states, and the government yesterday raised the estimate of
the leak rate to 35,000 to 60,000 barrels a day.  
 It was the fifth increase in the official estimate of the
leak, which began at 1,000 barrels a day. The spill began after
the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon sank April 22, two days after
the well it was drilling for BP exploded, killing 11 workers.  
 Based on the low end of the estimate, the BP well may have
leaked 1.99 million barrels so far. That exceeds the 262,000
barrels spilled by the Exxon Valdez in 1989 and the U.S. record
300,000-barrel spill by a tanker off the Oregon coast in 1968,
according to statistics from the American Petroleum Institute.  
 Obama called the BP leak “the worst environmental disaster
America has ever faced.”  
 The president said in the coming weeks, BP should be
capturing as much as 90 percent of the oil spewing into the Gulf
and that relief wells to be finished later this summer are
“expected to stop the leak completely.”  
 More Damage to Come  
 “But we have to recognize that, despite our best efforts,
oil has already caused damage to our coastline and its
wildlife,” he said. “There will be more oil and more damage
before this siege is done.”  
 BP said in an e-mailed statement that the company shared
the president’s goals of shutting off the well, cleaning up the
Gulf and mitigating the economic impact.  
 The British bank  Standard Chartered Plc  estimated BP’s
liabilities in the spill at about $40 billion. By comparison,
 Exxon Mobil Corp.  paid $4.8 billion in cleanup costs, fines,
punitive damages and interest for the 1989 incident.  
 BP fell yesterday to 342 pence in London trading, its
lowest price in 13 years and down 48 percent from the day the
oil rig blew up. The cost to protect $10 million of BP debt for
a year reached $695,000, according to CMA DataVision. It was
$29,000 on April 30.  
 The yield on BP’s $750 million of 1.55 percent notes due in
2011 rose to 8.796 percent yesterday and the price dropped 2.1
cents to 92.25 cents on the dollar, the lowest on record,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The bonds traded the
most ever, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Ratings Cut  
 Fitch Ratings cut BP’s credit rating six notches yesterday
to two levels above junk on concern over the potential cost of
cleaning up the spill and meeting future liabilities. Standard
and Poor’s downgraded BP by one level last week.  
 Obama, seeking to dispel criticism his administration
responded too slowly to the spill, said 30,000 personnel and
thousands of ships and vessels have been deployed.  
 “From the very beginning of this crisis, the federal
government has been in charge of the largest environmental
cleanup effort in our nation’s history,” he said.  
 The administration has been criticized by members of both
political parties, including Democratic strategist  James Carville  and Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell , who said
the administration “hasn’t lived up to” Americans’
expectations in its response.  
 Minerals Management Service  
 Senator  Lamar Alexander , a Tennessee Republican, said in a
statement, “The president should spend more time focusing on
cleaning up and containing the oil spill and less time trying to
pass a national energy tax that will drive jobs overseas looking
for cheap energy.”  
 Obama yesterday accused the Minerals Management Service,
which oversees offshore drilling, of corruption and tasked
Bromwich with overhauling it. Failures at the agency may leave
the administration open to some of the blame for the disaster at
BP’s Macondo well, said  Philip Weiss , an analyst with Argus
Research Corp. in New York.  
 “MMS is supposed to be regulating what’s going on in the
Gulf,” Weiss said. “It seems to me that the government really
does have some culpability here.”  
 Obama’s address came about six hours after he returned from
a two-day visit to the Gulf Coast, talking with state and local
officials and business owners in Mississippi, Alabama and
Florida. It was his fourth trip to the region.  
 Fishing Grounds  
 The spill has closed as much as 37 percent of the Gulf of
Mexico to fishing, cut offshore drilling in the nation by half
and polluted 140 miles (225 kilometers) of shoreline from
Louisiana to Florida. It also may create political turmoil for
the administration.  
 “Everybody knows the president isn’t at fault for the
leak, but they have to blame somebody,” said  Stuart Rothenberg ,
publisher of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in
Washington. Americans “are unhappy with a lot of stuff. They
are unhappy with the economy; they are unhappy with the debt;
they are pre-existing in a bad mood.”  
 Even though  71 percent of Americans  in a USA Today/Gallup
poll conducted June 11-13 say Obama hasn’t been tough enough in
dealing with BP, his overall approval ratings haven’t suffered,
according to Gallup’s  daily tracking poll .  
 Historians said it’s difficult to compare the spill to past
crises that have beset presidents, such as Hurricane Katrina
under President  George W. Bush  and the Iran hostage crisis
during President  Jimmy Carter ’s administration.  
 The spill doesn’t pose the same national security threat as
the hostage crisis and there was more immediate and obvious
devastation and loss of life from Katrina, said  Bruce Buchanan ,
a political scientist at the University of Texas in Austin.  
 “This is loss of livelihood and slow torture,” said
Buchanan. “It’s quite unique.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President Barack Obama speaks during a nationally televised address from the White House in Washington D.C. Photographer: Jim Lo Scalzo/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Hans Nichols reports on President Barack Obama's national address on Tuesday about BP Plc's oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Obama said the spill is an urgent call for action to cut U.S. dependence on fossil fuels and vowed that BP will be required to spend whatever is needed to repair damage caused by the company’s "recklessness." The oil gushing from a damaged BP well in the Gulf is threatening the shores of four states, and a team of scientists yesterday raised the estimate of the leak rate to 35,000 to 60,000 barrels a day. Bloomberg's Mark Barton also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
