-- Mobile TeleSystems Sells Biggest Emerging Market Company Bond in 2 Months
-- Denis Maternovsky
-- 2010-06-16T16:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/mobile-telesystems-sells-biggest-emerging-market-company-bond-in-2-months.html

          
          
             OAO Mobile TeleSystems , Russia’s
largest mobile phone company, raised $750 million in the biggest
dollar-bond sale by an emerging-market company in almost two
months.  
 The 10-year notes were priced at par to yield 8.625
percent, or 531.7 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. That compares to a spread of
440 basis points for seven-year, 8 percent dollar bonds the
company sold in January 2005, the last time it tapped
international debt markets. The yield on MTS’s dollar bonds due
January 2012 surged 220 basis points to 6.116 percent between
April 16 and June 7. The bonds are yielding 5.601 percent today,
a monthly low.  
 The sale is the largest offering of dollar debt by a
Russian company since the government sold $5.5 billion of debt
two months ago to set a benchmark that would help develop the
corporate debt market. Yields on emerging-market bonds have
climbed since then on concern the European Union’s debt crisis
will spread. MTS is the first developing-market company to hold
a bond sale of more than $500 million since April, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 ‘Pocket of Cash’  
 “With longer-term financing unavailable on the domestic
market we believe a limited portion of our debt portfolio should
be in hard currencies providing longer tenure,” Chief Financial
Officer  Alexei Kornya  said in an e-mailed response to questions
from Bloomberg. “Any deal around $1 billion with tenure of 10
years extends the average maturity of our debt outstanding by
one year.” The company seeks to limit the share of foreign-
currency debt to no more than 30 percent, he said.  
 MTS sold 60 billion rubles ($1.9 billion) of domestic bonds
between June 2008 and July 2009, according to Bloomberg data, in
a bid to limit its foreign-currency exposure. The company
earlier said the funds raised will be used to refinance its
debt, including a $400 million bond due in October.  
 “There is still ample perception that Russia telecoms are
in a pocket of cash liquidity, which explains their easy access
to the markets, even under shaky risk aversion conditions,”
said  Luis Costa , an emerging market debt strategist at Citigroup
Inc. in London. “There is hidden liquidity out there to invest
in cash-rich corporations.”  
 Domestic Funding  
 The company’s debt is rated Ba2, two levels below
investment grade, by Moody’s Investors Service and an equivalent
BB at Standard & Poor’s. The bond sale was organized by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  
 “Russian companies are able to issue on international
markets again, but they are not in a rush given attractive
funding alternatives domestically” said  Mikhail Galkin , an
analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow. “MTS will be a rare issuer of
dollar debt going forward as its financial strategy suggests
debt should be mainly in local currency.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        