-- Hog Futures Rise for Fourth Straight Session on Pork Demand; Cattle Gain
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-06-16T18:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/hog-futures-rise-for-fourth-straight-session-on-pork-demand-cattle-gain.html

          
          
             Hog futures rose to a two-week high
on speculation that U.S. retail pork demand is increasing after
wholesale prices slid to a two-month low. Cattle also gained.  
 Wholesale pork  was little changed yesterday at 82.76 cents
a pound after slipping the previous day to the lowest level
since April 14, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show.
Meatpackers  shipped  5.34 million pounds of pork yesterday, the
most in two weeks.  
 “We saw down movement on product prices, but we followed
it up with very good movement of pork,” said  Chad Henderson , a
market analyst at Prime Agricultural Consultants Inc. in
Brookfield, Wisconsin. “We’re finding a little more demand now,
especially with prices” at current levels, he said.  
 Hog futures for August settlement climbed 0.75 cent, or 0.9
percent, to 83.125 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. Earlier, futures touched 83.225 cents, the highest
price for a most-active contract since June 1.  
 Hog prices also rose after the USDA said yesterday it will
spend up to $14 million on chicken for federal food programs.
The plan is aimed at boosting chicken prices, which may cause
some consumers to switch to pork, said  Rich Nelson , the director
of research at Allendale Inc. in McHenry, Illinois.  
 The government purchase “may help out by alleviating some
of the backlog of chicken that might be stuck at the grocery
stores,” he said.  
 Cattle Market  
 Cattle futures for August delivery rose 0.575 cent, or 0.6
percent, to 89.175 cents a pound. Earlier, the price touched
89.2 cents, the highest level for a most-active contract since
June 4. Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement fell 0.075
cent to $1.109 a pound.  
 Cattle were supported by rising  wholesale choice-beef 
prices, Nelson said. Beef has gained 0.8 percent in the past two
days, reaching $1.5435 a pound at midday, after plunging 9.5
percent in the previous four weeks.  
 A report of increasing feedlot supplies may still keep
futures from rising, Nelson said. U.S. feedlots may have boosted
purchases of young cattle by 23 percent in May from a year
earlier, according to the average estimate of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The USDA will release monthly
feedlot inventories on June 18.  
 The report “should be viewed as bearish for the long
term,” Nelson said. Most cattle placed onto feedlots in May
will be ready for slaughter from September until January, he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        