-- Oil Breaches 200-Day Moving Average, May Retest Highs: Technical Analysis
-- Yee Kai Pin
-- 2010-06-16T02:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/oil-breaches-200-day-moving-average-may-retest-highs-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             Oil is set to surpass this
year’s highs above $87 a barrel after breaching the 200-day
moving average yesterday, a “major” chart resistance level,
according to Schork Group Inc.  
 Crude, which reached a 19-month high of $87.15 a barrel on
May 3 before tumbling as much as 26 percent, yesterday settled
above the moving average for the first time in a month. Prices
also cleared the middle of two Bollinger Bands, which plot
support and resistance levels based on volatility, further
boosting chances of a rally, according to  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Villanova, Pennsylvania-based consultants.  
 “At this point it is now hard to argue against a retest of
the highs from early May,” Schork said today in an instant
message.  
 Crude traded near a one-month high after rising yesterday 
as U.S. equities gained, bolstering speculation fuel demand 
will increase. The contract for July delivery was at $76.92 
in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange,
down 2 cents, at 10:57 a.m. Singapore time. Futures have gained
more than 9 percent in the past year.  
 Oil earlier this week was trending in the middle of two
Bollinger Bands, indicating it may be “make it or break it
time for the bulls,” Schork said in a note yesterday. With
prices having advanced, the market may push toward the 100-day
moving average, which is at $78.39 a barrel today, before the
upper Bollinger Band at $79.18.  
 The nine-day Relative Strength Index also shows oil is
“neither overbought nor oversold,” signaling short-term trends
may be sustained, according to Schork.  
 “We have switched our bias to bullish on crude oil after
concerns about offshore drilling and potential weakness in the
dollar align to create significant upward potential despite an
abundance of supply,” he wrote yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        