-- Tom Izzo Rejects Cleveland Cavaliers to Stay at Michigan State `For Life'
-- Nancy Kercheval
-- 2010-06-16T05:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/tom-izzo-to-remain-at-michigan-state-rejects-move-to-cleveland-cavaliers.html

          
          
             Tom Izzo  gave up the chance to
coach the Cleveland Cavaliers and committed himself to
Michigan State University.  
 Izzo, who has guided the Spartans to 13 straight men’s
college basketball national tournaments, was the Cavaliers’
preferred choice to succeed  Mike Brown . Cleveland, which
finished with the best record in the National Basketball
Association for the second straight season, ended Brown’s
five-year stint as coach last month after a second-round
playoff exit against the Boston Celtics.  
 “It’s been an agonizing week as I tried to make a
decision about a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity,” Izzo
said in a statement on the school’s website. “I’m pleased
to say I am here for life at Michigan State.”  
 Izzo’s decision comes two weeks before two-time
reigning National Basketball Association Most Valuable
Player  LeBron James  becomes a free agent. The 25-year-old,
who has averaged 27.8 points and seven rebounds per game in
seven seasons with the Cavaliers, is a target for the New
York Knicks and New Jersey Nets among others, according to
media reports. Izzo said he’d like James to remain a
Cavalier.  
 “I hope he stays,” Izzo said.  
 Four-time national Coach of the Year Izzo started at
Michigan State in 1995. The 55-year-old guided the Spartans
to the 2000 championship and has taken the school to the
Final Four six times. His teams also won six regular-season
 Big Ten  championships and two Big Ten tournament titles.
He’s staying because he hasn’t achieved everything he wants
to at the school.  
 “I’ve repeatedly said I have greater goals for our
program and that remains unchanged,” Izzo said. “Tops on
that list is becoming one of just seven schools with three
or more NCAA championships.”  
 Winningest Coach  
 Izzo has a 364-146 record with the Spartans and in
November surpassed  Jud Heathcote  as the East Lansing-based
school’s winningest basketball coach. In the NCAA
tournament, his 75 percent win rate ranks third among
active coaches with at least 10 games.  
 Cleveland offered Izzo, who turned down the chance to
coach the Atlanta Hawks a decade ago, $30 million over five
years, the Associated Press reported. The Cavaliers’ next
option may be former Nets and New Orleans Hornets coach
 Byron Scott , AP said, though Scott may be interested in
moving to the Los Angeles Lakers if  Phil Jackson  retires,
it said.  
 The Spartans  were the only team to make six Final Four
appearances between 1999 and 2010, and the fourth squad to
accomplish the feat in any 12-year span.  
 Izzo began his coaching career at Northern Michigan in
1979 after playing guard for the school from 1973-77. He
joined the Michigan State coaching staff 27 seasons ago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        