-- Homeowner's Insurance May Leave Art, Wine Collectors in U.S. Empty-Handed
-- Alexis Leondis
-- 2010-06-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/homeowner-s-insurance-may-leave-art-wine-collectors-in-u-s-empty-handed.html

          
          
             When Ross Brudenell began decorating
a second home in Abington, Connecticut, with pieces from his $2
million collection of colonial American furnishings, he realized
something else needed changing: his insurance.  
 “Collectibles are part of your total assets,” said
Brudenell, 68, a semi-retired orthopedic surgeon, who traded a
homeowner’s insurance policy from State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co. for one that covers collections from the private
client group at Chartis, a subsidiary of  American International
Group Inc . “If you have lousy insurance and something happens,
when it’s gone, it’s gone.”  
 As more investors buy artwork, wine, comic books or coins,
they may not know their standard homeowners’ insurance policies
don’t always provide sufficient coverage following loss, theft
or damage, according to  Jim Halperin , co-chairman of Dallas-
based Heritage Auctions, the world’s third-largest auction
house.  
 That’s because homeowners’ policies from mass-market
providers generally have lower limits that won’t cover items
over $200,000 and lack special services, such as compensation
for appreciation or loss in value, said Ronald Fiamma, vice
president of private collections for the private client group
division of New York-based Chartis.  
 First-Time Buyers  
 The return of Wall Street bonuses, attractive pricing for
collectibles and  volatility  in the stock market mean more
investors are looking to diversify their portfolios and put
money in hard assets that will appreciate, said Bruce Gendelman,
chairman of the Bruce Gendelman Company Inc., a Palm Beach,
Florida-based insurance agency that specializes in high-net-
worth clients.  
 Collectible values tend not to rise and fall with the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , which lures investors, said  Jeff Rubin , director of research at Westport, Connecticut-based
Birinyi Associates, a money management and research firm.  
 Sotheby’s sold $195.7 million of Impressionist and modern
art at a May 5 auction, triple the tally of the New York-based
firm’s year-earlier sale. Fifty percent of the cars sold at
Barrett-Jackson Auction Company’s collector auction in
Scottsdale, Arizona, in January were to first-time buyers, the
company said. At  Christie’s International , U.S. jewelry sales
were up 114 percent and wine was up 25 percent in the second
quarter of 2010 compared with a year earlier.  
 Prices for wine will have increased about 10 percent by the
end of this year compared with last year in part because of
first-time buyers looking to enjoy it and also to flip it as an
investment, said Charles Curtis, head of the North America wine
department at Christie’s, based in London.  
 ‘More TLC’  
 About 75 percent of Americans with a net worth of more than
$5 million buy homeowners’ insurance policies from mass-market
providers such as  Allstate Corp.  or State Farm, said Charles
Williamson, president of consumer lines at Chartis U.S.  
 The insurer is attracting almost 80 percent of its new
private clients from insurers such as State Farm and Geico
Corp., and wealthy investors are realizing “art and other
collectibles need a lot more TLC,” said Katja Zigerlig,
assistant vice president of art, wine and jewelry insurance for
the private client group division of Chartis.  
 Insurers such as Chartis,  Chubb Corp.  and Fireman’s Fund
Insurance Co. offer specialized property insurance policies for
collections ranging from artwork to autographs that can be
purchased separate from homeowners’ coverage sold by these
carriers.  
 Asian Swords  
 The cost for artwork insurance is about 10 cents to 20
cents for each hundred dollars of coverage, and varies based on
such factors as where the collector lives and the size of the
collection, Zigerlig said. Last year, the average private client
group policyholder at Chartis had about $2.2 million of private
collection insurance coverage. Chartis is rated A by AM Best
Co., which measures insurers’ financial health.  
 Chubb, with a rating of A++ from AM Best, will generally
cover up to $250 million in one location, said Jim Fiske, market
manager for Chubb’s personal insurance unit in Whitehouse, New
Jersey. Fine art would cost about $2,250 a year for $1 million
of coverage with Chubb, jewelry about $25,000 and wine about
$5,000, Fiske said.  
 Mass-market insurers may not have expertise in certain
collectibles, especially rarer ones such as archaeological
artifacts, vintage handbags or Asian swords, which makes it
difficult for them to assess replacement values, according to
Fiske.  
 Chartis will recommend several appraisers for items over
$250,000 that lack sale records and will usually accept the
values given by collectors for pieces less than $250,000, Fiamma
said.  
 Accidental Breakage  
 Homeowners’ insurance policies generally don’t provide
coverage for accidental breakage of fragile items, although
Fireman’s Fund’s  policy  does, subject to a deductible, said Don
Soss, vice president of personal insurance for Novato,
California-based Fireman’s Fund, which is rated A by AM Best and
is a subsidiary of Allianz SE.  
 They also may not cover pieces in transit, Zigerlig said.
Since pieces are often acquired while traveling abroad or put on
exhibition to increase value, investors should have policies
that provide transportation coverage, said Zigerlig, who
estimated that 6 percent of all private client group
collections’ claims occur while pieces are in transit.  
 ‘Go Through Hoops’  
 Brudenell, who has accumulated more than 600 pieces since
he started collecting in college, said he “had to go through
hoops” to try to get State Farm to cover furnishing that were
being transported from his home in Anchorage, Alaska, to
Connecticut. Although his policies through Chartis are more
expensive than the homeowner’s insurance and personal article’s
floater he had from State Farm, he said the expense is worth it.  
 State Farm generally provides coverage for personal
property up to 75 percent of the amount a home is insured for
under homeowners’ insurance, said  Dick Luedke , a spokesman for
Bloomington, Illinois-based State Farm. Separate personal
articles’ policies are available that provide coverage up to
$750,000 for individual collectibles and up to about $5 million
for collections, Luedke said.  
 Items are covered when being transported in the U.S.,
Canada or a U.S. territory, according to Luedke, who said he
couldn’t comment on a client’s specific situation without his
permission.  
 Allstate, based in Northbrook, Illinois, is committed to
providing consumers high-quality insurance at the most
affordable price possible, said  Kate Hollcraft , a spokeswoman.
Its products are most competitive for middle-market consumers,
she said.  
 ‘Like Bungee Jumping’  
 Collectors may not be covered for loss in value, so if a
work gets stained or torn and loses 10 percent of its value,
typical insurance will only pay for restoration, not making the
collector whole as with private collections’ insurance, Zigerlig
said.  
 The Fireman’s Fund specialized private collections’
insurance offers newly acquired coverage for jewelry and fine
art, which means collectors will be covered for their new
purchases, up to 100 percent of the itemized limit, for 90 days
before buying policies, said Soss.  
 Insurance for private collections won’t cover natural
deterioration or purchases that are frauds, and provides limited
coverage for restoration, Soss said. Unlike typical homeowners’
policies, collectibles that are damaged following a catastrophic
event such as a flood or an earthquake are covered.  
 “It’s sort of like having health insurance -- you do
things like bungee jumping because in the back of your mind you
know you have your policy,” said Zigerlig of Chartis. “With
the right insurance, you can collect these things you’re excited
about and ship them or show them off and still have peace of
mind.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Leondis  in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A woman looks at "Nude, Green Leaves and Bust," a painting by Pablo Picasso, during a preview at Christie's International Ltd. in New York on April 30, 2010. The work sold for a record $106.5 million during an auction at Christie's in New York. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Trois Hommes qui Marchent I"  
                       
                         
                           Landau Fine Art via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Trois Hommes qui Marchent I" by Alberto Giacometti. The sculpture is for sale by the Montreal-based gallery Landau Fine Art at this year's Art Basel fair. Dating from 1948 to 1950, it is priced at $25 million. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Trois Hommes qui Marchent I" by Alberto Giacometti. The sculpture is for sale by the Montreal-based gallery Landau Fine Art at this year's Art Basel fair. Dating from 1948 to 1950, it is priced at $25 million. Source: Landau Fine Art via Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
