-- Honda's Worst Strikes in China May Cut Profits by 5%, Goldman Sachs Says
-- Takako Iwatani
-- 2010-06-17T01:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/honda-s-worst-strikes-in-china-may-cut-profits-by-5-goldman-sachs-says.html

          
          
             Profits at  Honda Motor Co.  may be
cut by as much as 10 billion yen ($109 million), Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said, after the Japanese automaker suffered its worst
strikes in 18 years of making cars in China.  
 Wage concessions by the company after walkouts that shut
down three parts factories in the past month may reduce  net
income  by as much as 5 percent,  Kota Yuzawa , a Tokyo-based
analyst at Goldman Sachs, said in a report yesterday.  Koji Endo ,
an analyst in Tokyo at Advanced Research Japan, estimated the
strikes may reduce operating profit by 10 billion yen.  
 The labor unrest reflects growing pressure for higher pay
in China as the supply of low-cost labor shrinks. Wage increases
will accelerate, posing greatest risk to manufacturers such as
carmakers and technology companies that rely on cheap labor and
have limited pricing power, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts said.  
 “Honda can’t avoid rising labor costs and prices of
purchased parts,” Endo at Advanced Research Japan said by phone.
Many Chinese cities increased minimum wages this year by about
15 percent to 20 percent from 2009, he said.  
 Honda, Japan’s second-largest carmaker, fell 0.8 percent to
2,735 yen in Tokyo trading as of 10:28 a.m., while the Nikkei
225 Stock Average lost 0.4 percent.  
 Pay Raises  
 The automaker agreed last month to raise pay 24 percent for
workers at a parts plant in Foshan, Guangdong province, to end a
strike that shut down all four of its car factories in China as
they ran out of components. Another Foshan parts supplier was
closed from June 7 to June 10 because of a walkout.  
 Toyota Motor Corp.  told its suppliers that it may be forced
to stop an assembly line in Tianjin, China as early as today
because of a strike at a parts factory in the same city, the
Asahi newspaper reported today.  
 Workers at the parts plant may have been on strike since
June 15, the newspaper reported, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the situation.  
 Toyota is still checking the report, said Tokyo-based
spokesperson  Mieko Iwasaki .  Niu Yu , a spokesman for the company
in Beijing declined to comment on the details of the report.  
 Foxconn Technology Group, a Taipei-based assembler of Apple
Inc.’s iPhones, said this month it will double salaries for its
lowest-paid workers after at least 10 employees at its China
factories killed themselves this year.  
 Third Strike  
 A third Honda supplier strike, at the Honda Lock (Guangdong)
Co. parts factory in Zhongshan, Guangdong, is suspended until
tomorrow while union leaders and management negotiate over pay.
The plant, which makes key systems, door handles and sensors for
Honda Motor, is a joint venture between Honda Lock and the local
township government.  
 “For now, the strike doesn’t affect Honda’s sales,” said
 Yoshiyuki Kuroda , a spokesman for the carmaker. “We are
planning to recover the production volume and expect we can do
so,” he said, declining to comment further.  
 Honda’s four car factories in China are scheduled to resume
normal operations today after a national holiday, He Hong, a
spokeswoman for the company in Beijing said by phone.  
 Employees  at Honda Lock, who began striking June 9, have
demanded a 72 percent raise to 1,600 yuan ($234) a month and
higher overtime wages, Honda said on June 10. The company has
proposed a 200 yuan pay increase, and union leaders and
management have set a June 18 deadline to reach an agreement,
said Liu Shengqi, a former protest organizer at the factory.  
 Negotiations  
 Negotiations between Honda Lock and workers are continuing,
Honda Motor’s He in Beijing said today.  
 At Guangqi Honda Automobile Co., one of Honda’s two joint
ventures in China, labor costs amounted to the equivalent of
about 6 percent of revenue last year, Credit Suisse analysts led
by  Vincent Chan  said in a June 14 report. Net income at the unit
could decline 13 percent if wages rose by 20 percent, they said.  
 The venture with Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. in
Guangzhou, Guangdong, builds models including Accord sedans and
Odyssey minivans and is adding production of the Accord
Crosstour wagon this year.  
 Gross margins at Guangqi Honda this year may shrink 0.2
percent because of rising labor costs and the need to reschedule
production,  Steve Man , an analyst at Samsung Securities Co.,
said in a June 15 report.  
 “The impact would represent an earnings discount of around
4 percent,” Hong Kong-based Man said.  
 North America Sales  
 Honda began manufacturing in China in 1992, starting with
motorcycles. The company plans to have capacity to make 830,000
vehicles a year in the nation by the second half of 2012, Chief
Executive Officer  Takanobu Ito  said last month.  
 The carmaker aims to increase this year’s sales in China 9
percent to 630,000 vehicles, Ito said in April. Industrywide
sales in China, which surpassed the U.S. to become the world’s
largest auto market last year, may rise 17 percent to 16 million
this year, the State Information Center said the same month.  
 Honda may still boost profits in North America and Asia,
wrote Goldman Sachs’s Yuzawa, who maintained his “buy” rating
on the stock. The carmaker estimates net income will rise 27
percent to 340 billion yen in the fiscal year ending March 31,
thanks to recovering demand in North America.  
 Honda’s  sales in North America , which remains its largest
market, may rise 14 percent to 1.48 million vehicles as the U.S.
recovers from a recession, the company said in April.  
 Lost Production  
 Honda will likely be able to make up for production lost to
the strikes in China through extra shifts, Yuzawa and Endo said
separately. Yuzawa estimated the production loss at “several
tens of thousand vehicles.”  
 Automakers will need to get used to higher labor costs in
China, said  Edwin Merner , who oversees $3 billion as president
of Atlantis Investment Research Corp. in Tokyo. Rising prices
for housing and food “will mean continuing pressure on wages,”
he said.  
 The cost increases aren’t likely to deter companies from
manufacturing in China, said  Koichi Ogawa , chief portfolio
manager at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo.  
 “Japanese companies aren’t going to China for cheap
labor,” he said. “There’s a huge market there that’s expanding
rapidly. The companies need to produce locally in part because
of tariffs.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Singapore at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Honda strikes reflect growing pressure for higher pay in China as the supply of low-cost labor shrinks. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
