-- Mongolia to Let Investors Tap Resources Through Overseas Public Offerings
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-06-16T03:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/mongolia-to-offer-some-of-world-s-richest-resources-through-foreign-ipos.html

          
          
             Mongolia’s plan to privatize its
state-owned assets will allow international investors access to
some of the world’s largest untapped mineral resources through
initial public share sales, most likely in Hong Kong.  
 Dulam Sugar, chairman of the Government of Mongolia’s State
Property Committee, said even though the procedure of equity
listings hasn’t been confirmed, the Mongolian government has
decided to sell shares in both local and international stock
markets.  
 Sugar named  Erdenet Mining Corp. , a Mongolian-Russian
copper producer joint venture, the Tavan Tolgoi coking coal
deposit and the Oyu Tolgoi copper mine as the nation’s biggest
state-owned assets to be privatized. Uranium companies may also
be privatized.  
 “Mongolia doesn’t have anybody who has offered shares in
international markets yet, that’s why we are very cautious,”
Sugar said yesterday in an interview in the Mongolian capital of
Ulaanbaatar. “We are asking international investors to invest
now, particularly those from Hong Kong.”  
 The Mongolian government is in the process of identifying
state-owned enterprises to be privatized, the chairman said.
McKinsey & Co. is advising the government, which expects final
results in one month, he said.  
 Mongolia, a landlocked country sandwiched between China and
Russia, is betting on overseas capital markets as its primary
source of fundraising over its less liquid domestic market. The
government is striving to boost living standards in the nation
of about 2.7 million people, where average per capita income is
about $2,000 a year.  
 Desert Coal  
 Erdenet, established by the governments of Mongolia and the
former Soviet Union, started operations in 1978, according to
the company’s Web site. The company produces more than 530,000
tons of copper concentrate and 3,000 tons of molybdenum
concentrates. It also processes 25 million tons of ore per year,
its Web site shows.  
 Tavan Tolgoi holds about 6 billion metric tons of coal in
the deserts of southern Mongolia, making it one of the world’s
largest unexploited reserves of the fuel. While it is 100
percent government-owned, Mongolia plans to control part of the
deposit by a state-run enterprise, with a second tranche to be
operated by a group of foreign and domestic companies, Sugar
said.  
 Rio Tinto Group  and Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. are developing Oyu
Tolgoi, which London-based Rio has called the world’s largest
copper resource. It may operate for as long as 30 years and
generate between $30 billion and $50 billion in revenue,
Mongolian President Tsakhia Elbegdorj said in September.  
 Rio Option  
 Ivanhoe holds 66 percent of Oyu Tolgoi and Mongolia the
rest. Rio owns 22.4 percent of Ivanhoe and has an option to
increase its stake to 44 percent. Production is scheduled to
begin in 2013.  
 Selling part of its holdings in these assets will require
the agreement of Mongolia’s joint venture partners, Sugar said.  
 The average daily turnover of the Mongolian stock exchange
is about $100,000 this year, according to Khangai Altai, chief
operating officer of the Mongolian Stock Exchange. That compares
with HK$64 billion in Hong Kong, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Funds raised in Hong Kong through initial public offerings
surged 276 percent to HK$248 billion in 2009 from a year earlier,
 Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.  said March 4. The bourse has
been targeting listings from emerging markets, particularly
companies in the energy, metals and mining industries.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Ulaanbaatar via Hong Kong newsroom at
   hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Trucks drive through Erdenet Mining Corp.'s copper mine in Erdenet, Mongolia, 360km northwest of Ulaanbaatar. Dulam Sugar, chairman of the Government of Mongolia’s State Property Committee, named Erdenet Mining Corp., the Tavan Tolgoi coking coal deposit and the Oyu Tolgoi copper mine as the nation’s biggest state-owned assets to be privatized.  Photographer: Danfung Dennis/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
