-- Mongolia Scales Back Bond Sale Plan to $500 Million on Europe Debt Crisis
-- Lilian Karunungan
-- 2010-06-16T09:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/mongolia-scales-back-bond-sale-plan-to-500-million-on-europe-debt-crisis.html

          
          
             Mongolia’s government scaled back
its plans for global bond sales this year, after Europe’s debt
crisis drove up borrowing costs.  
 The government plans to raise $500 million selling bonds
this year and the remainder of its $1.2 billion program
according to market conditions, Batbayar Balgan, director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator today. Finance Minister
Sangajav Bayartsogt said in February that Mongolia planned to
sell as much as $1.2 billion of bonds overseas this year, its
first benchmark offering of dollar-denominated debt.  
 Mongolia, which shares a border with China and Russia, is
seeking $25 billion in foreign investments over five years to
develop some of the world’s largest untapped gold and copper
resources. Europe’s debt crisis has spurred investors to reduce
emerging-market assets, forcing Indonesia to reduce the size of
a planned Islamic bond sale in the past month.  
 “The Greek and European countries’ sovereign debt crisis
has some impact on us,” Chuluunbat Ochirbat, parliament member,
Government of Mongolia, said at the Frontier Securities Mongolia
Capital Raising Conference. “We will have to go for higher
rates if we go global.”  
 As the European debt crisis spread, the yield premium
investors demand to own emerging-market debt over U.S.
Treasuries widened to 3.15 percentage points yesterday, compared
with 2.31 points on April 15, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Plus  Index .  
 Indonesia reduced the amount of Islamic bonds it plans to
offer to $650 million from $750 million, and delayed the timing
to October from July,  Dahlan Siamat , the ministry’s director of
Islamic financing, said earlier this week in Singapore.  
 Mongolia is rated B1 by Moody’s Investors Service, four
levels below investment grade and on par with Fiji and Papua New
Guinea. Standard & Poor’s rates the nation BB-, the third-
highest non-investment ranking.  
 The Mongolian government wants to boost living standards in
the nation of about 2.7 million people, where average per capita
income is about $2,000 a year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        