-- Osborne Says BOE to Oversee Regulation by FSA; Vickers Heads Reform Panel
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-16T14:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/osborne-says-boe-to-oversee-regulation-by-fsa-vickers-heads-reform-panel.html

          
          
             Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said former Bank of England Chief Economist  John Vickers 
will lead a panel on the future of banking, as he prepared to
hand back powers over bank supervision to the central bank.  
 Setting out the terms of reference for the Independent
Banking Commission, Osborne said Vickers will examine whether
banks should be forced to separate their retail and investment
arms to reduce risks to the financial system and explore ways to
promote competition in the industry.  
 The supervisory system put in place by the previous Labour
administration “failed spectacularly,” Osborne told lawmakers
in Parliament in London today. “The British people rightly ask
how this coalition government will learn from these mistakes.”  
 Osborne will use his first Mansion House speech to
financiers later today to set out proposals for the biggest
overhaul of financial supervision since 1997, when powers to
monitor banks were taken from the Bank of England and given to a
newly created regulator, the Financial Services Authority.  
 Osborne said details of the “institutional arrangements”
to return some of those powers to the central bank will come in
a statement to Parliament tomorrow.  
 Vickers will report his findings by September next year.
Banks welcomed his appointment and pledged to cooperate with his
work while calling on the government to make sure any changes to
the industry are adopted internationally.  
 Lenders will aim to “ensure change is implemented
efficiently and effectively and that transition between
regulatory authorities does not cause disruption to the
financial system,”  Angela Knight , chief executive of the
British Bankers’ Association, said in a statement in London
today.  
 As Bank of England chief economist between 1998 and 2000,
Vickers was a member of the rate-setting Monetary Policy
Committee. He was director general of the Office of Fair Trading
between 2000 and 2005. In 2008, he became warden of All Souls
College, Oxford University.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        