-- Japanese Companies Join U.S. in Stockpiling Cash as European Crisis Brews
-- Aki Ito
-- 2010-06-17T14:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/household-assets-increased-3-1-last-quarter-bank-of-japan-report-says.html

          
          
             Japanese companies accumulated a
record amount of cash last quarter and household assets rose to
the highest level in almost two years, gains that have yet to
spark investment amid concern about the economic outlook.  
 Non-financial companies held 202.7 trillion yen ($2.2
trillion) in currency and deposits as of March 31, the most
since quarterly data began in 1997, the Bank of Japan said in
Tokyo today. Households’  financial assets  climbed 3.1 percent
from a year ago to 1,453 trillion yen.  
 Japan’s preference for cash parallels trends in the U.S.,
where companies boosted their liquid assets by 26 percent in the
year through the first quarter to $1.84 trillion, the highest
level since records began in 1952, a Federal Reserve report
showed last week. Businesses may be waiting for stronger signs
of a durable global economic recovery before they’re prepared to
step up investment and hiring, said economist  Glenn Maguire .  
 “Corporates can have as much cash in the world; if they’re
not confident that there’s going to be growth in final demand,
they’re not going to add to capacity in labor and capital,”
said Maguire, chief Asia-Pacific economist at Societe Generale
SA in Hong Kong.  
 Today’s report reinforces the argument that Japanese
companies may not need a 3 trillion yen credit program unveiled
by the central bank this week. Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and
his board developed the plan to encourage lending to companies
in 18 areas that could boost the country’s  economic growth 
prospects, such as energy, health and the environment.  
 ‘Swimming in Cash’  
 “Large firms are just swimming in cash” as they hang onto
money borrowed during the global financial crisis and enjoy a
rebound in sales from recession levels, said  Azusa Kato , an
economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo. “They’re not spending it
yet.”  
 Sony Corp. ’s cash and cash equivalents increased 80 percent
to 1.2 trillion yen as of March from a year ago, and Honda Motor
Co.’s climbed 62 percent to 1.12 trillion yen.  
 Nippon Yusen KK , Japan’s biggest shipping line by sales,
had 257 billion yen in cash assets as of March, almost double
from a year earlier. The increase reflects about 110 billion yen
raised to pay for new vessels, said spokesman  Mikitoshi Kai .
“People are worried about a deterioration in Europe’s economy,
but so far we haven’t seen any signs of that happening.”  
 Spending  on plant and equipment by Japanese companies slid
12.9 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, a Finance
Ministry report showed this month.  
 Households Hoarding  
 In the U.S., nonfarm, non-financial companies had $1.84
trillion in cash and other liquid assets at the end of the first
quarter, the Fed’s Flow of Funds report showed June 10.  
 Japanese households are hoarding money because the economic
recovery has yet to convince them to step up investment in
riskier assets, according to Kato at BNP Paribas. Deflation also
discourages investment by preserving the value of cash.  
 People held 54.9 percent of their assets in cash in the
first quarter. That’s up from 52.9 percent two years earlier. By
comparison, Americans had 14.2 percent of their assets in cash
last quarter, according to the report.  
 The increase in household wealth took the value of their
financial assets to the highest level since the second quarter
of 2008. The gains were driven by a stock market rally that has
subsequently stalled because of Europe’s sovereign-debt woes.  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  climbed 37 percent in the year
ended March 31 as the economy recovered from the worst global
financial crisis since the Great Depression. The gauge has since
lost 9.8 percent.  
 “Employment and incomes are recovering so it’s unlikely
consumer spending will worsen, but we can’t expect further
boosts to spending from people’s assets” until stocks resume
gaining, Kato said.  
 Japanese government debt owned by foreign investors slumped
16.2 percent in the year ending March, the biggest drop in eight
years on an annual basis, today’s report showed. Foreigners held
47 trillion yen of the 834 trillion yen of public debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        