-- Manufacturing Powering U.S. Recovery as Housing Slumps
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-06-16T13:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/housing-starts-in-u-s-decline-more-than-estimated-to-593-000-annual-pace.html

          
          
             Builders broke ground on fewer U.S.
homes in May than anticipated after the expiration of a tax
credit, indicating the real-estate market will struggle without
government incentives.  
 Housing  starts  fell 10 percent, the biggest decline since
March 2009, to a 593,000 annual rate, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington. Building  permits , a sign of
future construction, unexpectedly fell to a one-year low.
Single-family starts suffered the largest drop since 1991.  
 Builders  focused less on taking on new projects and more on
completing houses for those seeking to qualify for the tax
credit, which required contracts be signed by April 30 and
closed by the end of this month. Growth in  sales  and
construction will now depend more on job gains and a drop in
foreclosures, which have pushed down prices and created
competition for builders.  
 “Builders are obviously feeling very cautious,
justifiably cautious, given the only moderate speed of the
recovery so far and the concern is that home buying will pull
back on the other side of the tax credit,” said  Robert Dye , a
senior economist at PNC Financial Markets Group Inc. in
Pittsburgh. Home construction in the third quarter is “going
to be weak and will be a drag on” the economy, he said.  
 Economists forecast starts would fall to a 648,000 annual
rate, according to the median of 78 projections in a Bloomberg
News survey. Starts in April were at a revised 659,000 pace,
less than previously reported. Estimates for May ranged from
575,000 to 698,000.  
 Production Rises  
 A separate report from the Federal Reserve showed
industrial production in May rose by the most since August.
Output at factories, mines and utilities increased 1.2 percent
last month after a 0.7 percent gain in April.  
 The figures show the recovery is being led by manufacturing
as companies rebuild inventories, invest in new equipment and
sell more goods abroad.  
 Stocks fell after the report, with the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  dropping 0.6 percent to 1,108.09 at 9:32 a.m. in New
York.  
 The Labor Department reported today that wholesale prices
fell in May for the third time in four months. Prices paid to
factories, farmers and other producers declined 0.3 percent
after April’s 0.1 percent drop. Excluding food and fuel, so-
called core prices climbed 0.2 percent for a second month.  
 Building permits were projected to rise to 625,000,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  
 Starts were up 7.8 percent from the same month last year,
while permits increased 4.4 percent.  
 Single-Family Starts  
 Construction of single-family houses slumped 17 percent,
the biggest drop since January 1991, to a 468,000 pace in May.
Permits declined 9.9 percent after a 10 percent drop in April.
Work on multifamily homes, such as townhouses and apartment
buildings, jumped 33 percent to an annual rate of 125,000.  
 Two of four regions had a decrease in starts last month,
led by a 21 percent slump in the South and a 6.3 percent decline
in the Northeast. Single-family starts were down in all regions.  
 The number of homes under construction declined to a
475,000 annual rate in May, the lowest on record.  
 Under the government’s incentive program, which was renewed
and expanded in November, buyers had to sign contracts by the
end of April and close on homes by June 30 to qualify for a
credit worth as much as $8,000. Banks usually require homes to
be livable before they agree to a closing.  
 Senator Harry Reid last week proposed a three-month
extension to the closing deadline amid concern that a rush of
buyers created too big a backlog for builders to complete
projects by the end of this month. An extension would support
housing starts and construction in coming months.  
 Home Sales  
 Helped by the credit, sales of new homes surged in April to
a 504,000 rate, the highest level in two years, according to
Commerce Department data. The increase brought the number of
homes on the market down to 211,000, the fewest since 1968.  
 Even so, home sales and construction will be more dependent
in coming month on the labor market. While employment has
increased for six of the last seven months, job gains in May
were less than forecast and the unemployment rate remains near a
26-year high.  
 A report yesterday showed builders became more  pessimistic 
this month. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo Housing Market Index fell to 17, from 22 in May. Readings
below 50 signal more builders view the market as poor.  
 Hovnanian Enterprises Inc., the largest homebuilder in New
Jersey, earlier this month reported that it closed on 1,197
homes with an average price of $287,050, compared with 1,459
houses for an average $277,053 a year earlier. Orders for new
homes fell 17 percent and contract signings in May were slower.  
 Sales Pulled Forward  
 “Our slower pace of May net contracts seems to confirm
that the tax credit helped pull some sales forward into earlier
months this year,”  Ara K. Hovnanian , chairman and chief
executive officer, said in the statement. “We recognize that
the expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit, the lack of
job growth and a potential increase in foreclosures all pose
risks to a housing industry recovery.”  
 Some builders are optimistic. Toll Brothers Inc., the
largest U.S. luxury homebuilder, said May 26 it increased its
land holdings for the first time in four years in anticipation
of a recovery in the market. The number of houses under contract
but not yet sold rose in the three months ended April 30
compared with a year earlier for the first time since 2006, the
Horsham, Pennsylvania-based company said.  
 “People are not as scared any longer that a house is a
lousy investment,” Chairman  Robert Toll  said on a conference
call.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A worker cuts wood for a new home under construction at the Split Rock at Entrada development in St. George, Utah. Photographer: George Frey/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Dean Maki, chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about U.S. manufacturing and housing data for April, and the outlook for the economy and Federal Reserve monetary policy.
     Production in the U.S. rose by the most since August and builders broke ground on fewer homes than projected, showing manufacturing is sustaining the recovery as the housing market retreats following the expiration of a government tax credit. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
