-- Pakistan Central Bank Developing Shariah-Compliant Money-Market Products
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-06-16T04:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/pakistan-central-bank-developing-shariah-compliant-money-market-products.html

          
          
             Pakistan’s central bank is
developing Shariah-compliant products for its interbank money
market as a shortage of investment options hurts earnings at
Islamic lenders.  
 The products “will provide some flexible and convenient
mechanism for managing the surplus liquidity in the Islamic
banking industry,” according to a statement by the  State Bank
of Pakistan  released late yesterday, citing Acting Governor
 Yaseen Anwar . It will also “provide a platform for developing
benchmarks for the pricing of Islamic finance products.”  
 Pakistan, the world’s second-largest Muslim country, plans
to double its Islamic banking industry in the next three years
to 12 percent of the size of its conventional one. Islamic
banking globally is growing at twice the pace of conventional
banking,  Lim Hng Kiang , Singapore’s trade and industry minister,
said June 14 at an Islamic finance conference.  
 The shortage of bankers trained in Islamic services is a
“challenge that poses a serious threat to the growth and
development of the industry on sound footings,” Anwar was cited
as saying by the central bank. “The pace of growth of the
industry is much faster that the supply of trained and well
qualified Islamic bankers.”  
 The $1 trillion industry for financial services complying
with Muslim law, which prohibits interest payments, is expanding
15 percent annually, according to  Afaq Khan , chief executive
officer at Standard Chartered Plc’s Islamic Unit in Dubai. To
ensure Islamic investments meet Shariah principles they have to
be vetted by recognized scholars. Transactions are based on the
exchange of asset flows rather than interest.  
 Sukuk Sales  
 The Islamic finance industry’s assets may reach $1.6
trillion by 2012, according to the Kuala Lumpur-based  Islamic
Financial Services Board , a standards setting body.  
 Pakistan first introduced Islamic financial services in
2001, and sold its first overseas sukuk notes in January 2005,
raising $600 million from international investors. Pakistan had
42.2 billion rupees ($491 million) of outstanding domestic sukuk,
or Islamic bonds as of April 30, less than 1 percent of its 4.6
trillion rupees of regular debt, central bank data show.  
 The country plans to increase the number of full-fledged
Islamic banks to eight from six by 2013, Salim Ullah, director
for Islamic banking at the State Bank of Pakistan, said this
month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        