-- Pay Rises 43% as Argentine Workers Say Inflation Is Triple Government Rate
-- Eliana Raszewski
-- 2010-06-16T17:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/pay-rises-43-as-argentine-workers-say-inflation-is-triple-government-rate.html

          
          
             Argentine labor leaders are
demanding the biggest wage increases in more than 15 years to
compensate for  inflation  they say is running at more than three
times the official rate of 10.7 percent a year.  
 In the past month, sugar-cane harvesters won a 43 percent
pay rise, cafeteria employees 35 percent and janitors 28
percent. Union leader Osvaldo Iadarola, who represents 20,000
telephone workers at companies including  Telecom Argentina SA ,
said he is seeking a 35 percent increase, along with the right
to ask for more in six months if prices continue to rise.  
 “We want to be prepared so that, if inflation takes hold,
we will be able to renegotiate our wages again and not be tied
for a year,” Iadarola said in a June 10 telephone interview in
Buenos Aires. “Price increases have left workers with a loss of
purchasing power.”  
 Such pay awards will force businesses to increase prices,
fueling an inflationary cycle that will lead to reduced
consumption, deter investment and brake  economic growth , said
former Finance Secretary  Daniel Marx . In the 1970s and 1980s,
the South American country suffered bouts of hyperinflation that
peaked in 1989, when consumer prices rose 5,000 percent.  
 “High inflation means a loss of purchasing power, and
definitely the rate of growth will decelerate,” Marx, who runs
Buenos Aires-based Quantum Finanzas research company, said in a
June 9 telephone interview. “Companies halt investment plans
because inflation generates uncertainty.”  
 Exchange Rate  
 Argentina’s central bank manages the foreign exchange rate,
allowing the peso to weaken 3.3 percent this year to 3.9274 per
dollar at 1:35 p.m. New York time. Thirty-day peso-denominated
certificates of deposit pay an average 9.34 percent, according
to central bank data.  
 The yield on the country’s benchmark seven percent dollar
bonds due in 2015 fell 31 basis points to 13.28 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 Alberto Sellaro, who owns a shoe factory in Buenos Aires,
said his 50 employees will receive a 24.7 percent pay rise in
two stages over the next nine months. As a result he will
increase his prices for the coming season by 10 percent.  
 “Nobody can give a 25 percent increase without raising
prices,” Sellaro said in a June 10 telephone interview. “Some
suppliers are raising their prices ‘just in case,’ and workers
follow those raises too.”  
 ‘Redistribution of Wealth’  
 Economy Minister  Amado Boudou , 47, said in a speech on June
8 that wage awards are in line with government policy for “the
redistribution of wealth.”  
 Doubts about the accuracy of data produced by the  national
statistic institute  means labor leaders tend to overshoot in
their wage demands because they don’t have reliable figures on
which to base their claims, said Marx, 57. Argentines have
“lost their bearings” on the rate of price increase, he said.  
 “It’s a situation that feeds on itself.” said Marx.
“It’s hard to measure how much increases should be to maintain
purchasing power.”  
 Economists and politicians, including former central bank
President  Alfonso Prat-Gay , have challenged official data since
former President  Nestor Kirchner  started to replace personnel at
the Buenos Aires-based statistics institute in January 2007.  
 “There’s always a tendency to demonize salaries and say
‘wages go up and then prices go up,’” Labor Minister  Carlos Tomada  said in an interview today with Buenos Aires-based Radio
Mitre. “In fact, the process is exactly the opposite in
Argentina.”  
 Inflation to Quicken  
 Inflation will accelerate to 26 percent this year from 15.3
percent in 2009, according to Buenos Aires-based research
company Ecolatina, which tracks prices for about 500 goods and
services. According to official figures, prices rose 7.7 percent
last year and 10.7 percent in the 12 months to the end of May.  
 Accelerating prices have led unions, which represent about
80 percent of Argentina’s registered workers, to start taking
account of inflationary expectations, and not just past price
increases, when they make wage demands, said  Ernesto Kritz , a
Buenos Aires-based  economist  who tracks labor issues at SEL
Consultores.  
 “This is an understandable change in tactics given the
context of growing and high inflation,” Kritz, 66, said in a
June 7 telephone interview.  
 Kritz conducted a poll in April that showed wage talks in
89 of the 113 companies surveyed were influenced by forecasts of
how much prices will rise this year.  
 ‘Pretty Dangerous’  
 “That’s pretty dangerous because it may start a cycle of
increases that will be really hard to detain” as most companies
will pass them on in the form of higher prices, said  Javier Paz ,
an economist at Ecolatina.  
 Argentines expect prices to rise 25 percent over the next
12 months, according to the median estimate in a monthly survey
by Buenos Aires-based Torcuato Di Tella University.  
 The poll of 1,205 people was conducted by Poliarquia
Consultores from June 1 to June 10 and has a margin of error of
3.5 percentage points.  
 President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner , 57, said on June
8 that policies to boost consumption and strengthen the domestic
market helped the economy weather the global financial crisis
and grow 0.9 percent last year. From 2003 to 2008, expansion
averaged 8.5 percent per year. On April 9, Boudou said  growth 
will exceed 5 percent this year.  
 Fernandez’s spokesman  Alfredo Scoccimarro  didn’t return a
phone call by Bloomberg News seeking comment.  
 Among the biggest wage demands is the 48 percent increase
sought by grain and soybean quality inspectors that would take
their monthly salary to 6,000 pesos ($1,529), said union leader
Pablo Palacio.  
 Suspend Activities  
 “If we don’t settle we will see how we can suspend our
activities,” Palacio said in a June 14 telephone interview from
the Atlantic port town of Bahia Blanca.  
 Telephone workers, who staged a one-day strike on June 11,
will resume protests if they don’t reach an accord, Iadarola
said.  
 Three offers made by  Telecom Argentina  and  Telefonica de
Argentina SA  have been rejected, press officials at the two
telephone companies told Bloomberg News, asking not to be
identified in line with internal policies.  
 The government is reluctant to rein in wage demands because
it needs the support of labor leaders ahead of next year’s
presidential election, Kritz said.  
 “The government has lost its power to control the
situation,” Kritz said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Former finance secretary Daniel Marx said pay awards will force businesses to increase prices fueling an inflationary cycle. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
