-- Petraeus Backs `Responsible' Afghanistan Pullout as Senate Hearing Resumes
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2010-06-16T18:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/petraeus-backs-responsible-afghanistan-pullout-as-senate-hearing-resumes.html

          
          
             U.S. Army General  David Petraeus 
sought to assure lawmakers that he backs President  Barack Obama ’s plan for a drawdown from Afghanistan starting in July
2011 with the pace determined by conditions on the ground.  
 Resuming testimony cut short yesterday when he almost
passed out during questioning, Petraeus, 57, told the  Senate
Armed Services Committee  today that the timeline is “not the
date when the U.S. heads for the exits.” Obama set the date in
December as he announced the addition of 30,000 U.S. troops.  
 “I did believe there was value in sending a message of
urgency with July 2011 as well as the message the president was
sending of commitment with the additional substantial number of
forces,” Petraeus said. “But it is important that July 2011 be
seen for what it is, a date when a process begins based on
conditions.”  
 Obama is counting on an overhaul of the mission in
Afghanistan and the increased troops to reverse Taliban gains
and make room for newly trained Afghan soldiers and police and
their civilian counterparts to begin taking charge.  
 Petraeus said the U.S. would pursue a “responsible
drawdown” of its forces.  
 The U.S. and 45 partner nations will have almost 150,000
troops in Afghanistan this year when the additions are in place.  
 Shortage of Trainers  
 Still, the campaign is short of about 450 trainers that it
needs to sufficiently build up the Afghan National Army and
police, Undersecretary of Defense for Policy  Michele Flournoy 
said. Other countries in the NATO-led coalition still haven’t
provided the numbers the U.S. believes are needed, she said.  
 Flournoy said Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  plans to
bridge the gap as necessary with U.S. forces. The training
effort also lacks the required personnel to work with Afghan
army and police units as mentors, she said.  
 President  Hamid Karzai  is “under enormous pressure” to
secure the Afghan government’s control of civilian institutions
and adequately develop security forces, Petraeus said.  
 That may account for some of his actual or reported
criticism or doubt over the coalition’s intentions and
prospects, the general told the committee.  
 U.S. lawmakers have expressed concern over Karzai’s recent
lashing out, including alleging foreign interference in last
year’s presidential election and a threat to join the Taliban.  
 Afghan Resignations  
 Karzai also drew concern from U.S. lawmakers after he
accepted the resignations last week of his interior minister and
intelligence chief. The two had worked closely with U.S. forces
and civilian leaders and won their support.  
 The candidates apparently being considered to replace them
would be competent, and the U.S. and its allies would be able to
work well with them, Petraeus told the committee.  
 General  Stanley McChrystal , the U.S. commander in
Afghanistan, spent almost a full day with Karzai recently as the
president mustered support from local tribal leaders in Kandahar
for a coalition offensive. McChrystal is leading a gradual push
into Kandahar City and the surrounding province of the same name
in an attempt to undermine Taliban influence.  
 Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Admiral  Michael Mullen  at
another Senate hearing today underscored the importance of
driving the Taliban from Kandahar.  
 ‘As Goes Kandahar’  
 “It is my belief that if they go unchallenged” there,
“they’ll go unchallenged” throughout the country, Mullen told
the Senate defense appropriations subcommittee as Petraeus spoke
at the armed services panel. “As goes Kandahar, so goes
Afghanistan.”  
 The Obama administration plans a review of progress in
Afghanistan in December. Mullen said, “We will know by the end
of the year where we are in terms of reversing their momentum.”  
 The war effort probably is progressing better than news of
recent attacks and the difficulties in the aftermath of the
February offensive in Marjah would suggest, Petraeus said.  
 “The trajectory, in my view, has generally been upward,
despite the tough losses, despite the setbacks,” Petraeus said.
“The enemy is under greater pressure than at any time before.”  
 Recent calculations that Afghanistan’s mineral deposits
such as copper and iron probably are worth at least $1 trillion
have steered the economic effort, Flournoy said. The U.S. is
concentrating more on developing the capabilities of the
Ministry of Mines and related laws to enable the government to
capitalize on its mineral wealth in the longer term.  
 Iron, Timber  
 Afghanistan has some of the world’s last remaining “super-
deposits,” he said, citing iron, lithium, tin, timber and
gemstones.  
 “People realize the magnitude of the mineral resources
that exist in Afghanistan, recognizing the enormous challenges
of actually turning those into wealth and income and so forth
for the people,” Petraeus said.  
 Gates, testifying with Mullen, said the Afghanistan
conflict would end much as the Iraq War is ending -- with
American troops first in the lead for security operations
followed by a transition to Afghans leading and Americans
assuming support and advisory roles.  
 “As we did province by province in Iraq, I suspect that’s
how it will happen” in Afghanistan, Gates said. The U.S. is
already reviewing what provinces can be turned over to the
Afghans starting later this year, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        