-- Pimco's Gross Insures G-7 Countries' Debt Rather Than Buying It
-- Miles Weiss
-- 2010-06-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/pimco-s-gross-insures-g-7-countries-debt-with-swaps-rather-than-buying-it.html

          
          
             Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest  bond fund , opted to insure debt from developed countries
rather than buy it earlier this year.  
 Gross’s  Pimco Total Return Fund  increased the credit-
default swaps it sold on bonds from Group of Seven nations such
as the U.S. and the U.K. to more than $3 billion in the first
quarter, according to a June 7 regulatory filing. The $228
billion fund was insuring debt from six of the G-7 countries as
of March 31, while no longer holding a $30 million contract on
Italian bonds.  
 The credit swaps enable Pimco Total Return to earn premiums
without taking the risk, frequently cited by Gross, that rising
G-7 budget deficits will fuel inflation, pushing up interest
rates and driving down bond values. Pimco said the chance of a
default by countries such as the U.S. and U.K. is diminished
because they control individual currencies with which to pay
creditors, unlike Greece and other euro-zone nations.  
 “Pimco is probably taking the view that it might be like
free money,” said  Edward Grebeck , chief executive officer of
Tempus Advisors LLC, a Stamford, Connecticut, debt-market
strategist. “The dollar is the quintessential currency in the
world and I don’t see the U.S. government defaulting per se
because it can always print money.”  
 Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Pacific Investment
Management Co., the Newport Beach, California-based firm where
Gross is co-chief investment officer, declined to comment.
Gross, who helped found Pimco in 1971, didn’t respond to an e-
mailed request for comment.  
 ‘Valuable Opportunity’  
 “We do not expect the U.K. to fail in meeting its
commitments,” even as the country faces the risk of longer-term
inflation,  Michael Amey , Pimco’s executive vice president for
U.K. fixed income, said in a June  commentary  on the firm’s
website. Selling credit-default swaps on U.K. debt “offers a
valuable opportunity for sophisticated investors,” he wrote.  
 Pimco Total Return has been increasing its participation in
the $30 trillion market for credit-default swaps, which are used
by investors both to hedge against losses on existing holdings
and to speculate on a bond issuer’s future creditworthiness.  
 The fund has been buying protection against defaults by
corporations, including home builders and retailers, while
selling insurance against defaults by emerging-market nations
and the G-7 countries, a group of industrial democracies that
includes Japan, Germany, France, Canada and Italy along with the
U.S. and the U.K.  
 Gilts, Treasuries  
 Pimco Total Return Fund had sold credit swaps on about
$3.52 billion of G-7 debt as of March 31, up from $205 million
at yearend, according to the firm’s filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The fund receives annual
premiums under the credit swaps, most of which expire in March
2015, in return for its promise to pay the full face amount of
the contract to the buyer if the governments in question
default.  
 The coverage Pimco Total Return had written on U.K.
government bonds, known as gilts, climbed to $1.55 billion as of
March 31 from $91.2 million as of Dec. 31, the SEC filing shows.
The fund’s insurance on U.S. Treasuries rose to about
645 million euros ($794.7 million) from 20 million euros, and on
French government bonds it jumped to $598.7 million from
$30 million.  
 The fund had sold $488.2 million of protection on Japanese
government debt and $10 million on Canada as of March 31,
compared with none at yearend, while its backing for German
bonds rose to $80 million from $30 million.  
 Pimco Total Return held about $2.6 billion of sovereign
debt from developed countries, including $2 billion issued by
the Canadian government, according to filings. The fund cut its
holdings in U.S. Treasuries to $23.2 billion from $42.7 billion
during the first quarter, filings show.  
 ‘Surreptitious’ Bailout  
 Gross, 66, said in his January investment outlook that
public debt was soaring, with most of the increase coming from
G-7 countries “intent on stimulating their respective
economies” in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. Their own
central banks bought almost $2 trillion of this debt through
“check writing that required no money at all,” according to
Gross, who described this phenomenon as “the least understood,
most surreptitious government bailout of all.”  
 The following month, Gross grouped the U.S., France, Japan
and the U.K. with Greece, Spain, Ireland and Italy in a “ring
of fire,” comprised of countries with the potential for public
debt to exceed 90 percent of their gross domestic product within
a few years. He labeled the U.K. a “must to avoid,” saying its
gilts were resting on a “bed of nitroglycerin” because of high
government debt levels.  
 Must-Avoid List  
 Gross said in April that some countries might be able to
avert a crisis by creating more debt, as long as they had the
ability to issue their own currency and reflate with low real
interest rates, among other conditions.  
 “Perhaps surprisingly, some of the countries on Pimco’s
‘must to avoid’ list are decently positioned to escape their
individual debt crises,” including the U.K. and the U.S., but
not Greece, Gross said in the commentary. That doesn’t mean
their bonds “will be a good investment,” he said.  
 Gross said during a June 4 interview on Bloomberg
Surveillance with  Tom Keene  that the U.S. is “the least dirty
shirt” in a world full of governments with excessive debt. He
boosted Pimco Total Return’s investment in U.S. government-
related debt to 36 percent in April from 33 percent in March.  
 Pimco Total Return has outperformed about 81 percent of its
peers by increasing 4.3 percent this year, including dividends.
The fund returned 14 percent in 2009, ranking it above
60 percent of rivals.  
 Credit Protection  
 Pimco Total Return was providing more than 10 percent of
the net credit protection on Japan, the U.S. and the U.K.,
according to the most recent data compiled by the New York-based
Depositary Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a trade-reporting
facility for credit-default swap  transactions .  
 The swaps listed by Pimco Total Return equal almost
15 percent of the $10.4 billion in net protection outstanding on
the U.K., about 40 percent of the $1.95 billion in net contracts
written on U.S. debt and about 11 percent of the $4.45 billion
in default swaps on Japan, according to figures on the
clearinghouse’s website.  
 While most G-7 countries have traditionally been viewed as
default proof, the cost of insuring their debt has been rising
as members spend billions to jumpstart their economies and bail
out firms hurt by the financial crisis. The transfer of risky
assets such as subprime mortgages from the balance sheets of
private banks to those of central banks, including the U.S.
Federal Reserve, along with the deepening of the credit concerns
sparked by Greece’s bailout, has contributed to the rising
premiums on sovereign debt.  
 New Phenomenon  
 “Writing credit-default swaps on a reserve currency is a
new phenomenon in the last few years,” said  Eric Fine , managing
director at Van Eck G-175 Strategies, a New York-based fund that
focuses on emerging-market debt. “It might mean that we have
gone from totally inconceivable to almost totally
inconceivable,” in terms of a default by a country such as the
U.S. or Great Britain.  
 The CDR Government Risk Index, a measure of credit-default
swap rates on seven developed nations, including Spain and all
G-7 members except Canada, traded at 3 basis points, or
0.03 percent, at the beginning of 2007, according to  David Klein , the manager of credit indexes at Credit Derivatives
Research LLC in Walnut Creek, California.  
 The firm’s index climbed to 122 basis points as of June 10,
from 71 basis points on March 31, with much of the increase
stemming from rising costs to insure Italy and Spain.  
 “Times are different now than they were in 2007,” Klein
said.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Miles Weiss  in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pacific Investment Management Co. co-chief investment officer Bill Gross. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bill Gross, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, opted to insure debt from developed countries rather than buy it earlier this year. Gross’s Pimco Total Return Fund increased the credit-default swaps it sold on bonds from Group of Seven nations such as the U.S. and the U.K. to more than $3 billion in the first quarter, according to a June 7 regulatory filing. Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
