-- Poland `Absolutely' Won't Activate IMF Credit Line, Finance Minister Says
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-06-16T11:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/poland-absolutely-won-t-activate-imf-credit-line-finance-minister-says.html

          
          
             Poland, which yesterday asked the
International Monetary Fund to extend a $20 billion credit line,
“absolutely doesn’t plan to use it,” Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said.  
 “The credit line is less a case of buying insurance than
it is of installing good locks on the doors,” Rostowski said at
a press conference in Warsaw today. Poland would activate the
credit line “if we had a serious attack on the zloty or a sharp
depreciation of the currency. But these problems are less likely
because everybody on the market knows that we have this
access.”  
 Poland was granted a flexible credit line by the IMF a year
ago, though the government never made use of it. The facility
was sought as a backup to calm markets and reduce risk premia
demanded by investors to hold Polish assets. The previous credit
line expired on May 5.  
 The application for the new facility, signed by Rostowski
and the central bank’s Governor  Marek Belka , ended a dispute
between the government and the bank on the need for credit line.  
 The central bank, first under Governor  Slawomir Skrzypek 
and after his death in an April 10 place crash by Deputy
Governor  Piotr Wiesiolek , argued against the line, saying
Poland’s economy is strong enough and the central bank’s foreign
reserves high enough to do without outside help. The bank also
refused to pay about $60 million in service fees to obtain the
facility.  
 Cooperation  
 Belka, a former IMF director, was sworn in as the central
bank’s governor on June 11 after being nominated by acting
President  Bronislaw Komorowski  of the ruling Civic Platform.  
 “We eventually are seeing a beginning of rebuilding of the
central bank’s and the government cooperation,” Rostowski said.  
 The IMF’s management is seeking approval from the
institution’s board for the renewal in early July of the credit
line to Poland, First Deputy Managing Director  John Lipsky  said
in a statement yesterday.  
 The zloty traded at 4.09 per euro at 1 p.m. in Warsaw, down
from 4.073 yesterday. The Polish currency, which advanced on
June 14 to its strongest in 1 1/2 weeks, has been fluctuating
since April 9, when the central bank conducted its first zloty
intervention in 12 years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net 
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        