-- Polish Interest Rates May Rise If Deficit Stays Wide, MPC's Hausner Says
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-06-16T10:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/polish-interest-rates-may-rise-if-deficit-stays-wide-mpc-s-hausner-says.html

          
          
             Poland’s central bank may raise
 interest rates  if the country’s budget deficit doesn’t narrow
next year, Monetary Policy Council member  Jerzy Hausner  said
today in Warsaw.  
 The bank may need to tighten policy if the fiscal shortfall
remains at about 7 percent of gross domestic product in 2011,
Hausner said at a meeting of economists today. Current trends in
 inflation , wages and lending don’t pose a threat to the central
bank’s inflation target, Hausner said.  
 “If I were aware that the government had agreed to a plan
that assumes keeping the fiscal deficit at the 7 percent level,
I would treat it as in indicator for increasing interest
rates,” he said.  
 The European Union’s biggest eastern member will post a
budget deficit 7.3 percent of gross domestic product this year
and 7 percent in 2011, compared with 7.1 percent in 2009, the
European Commission said on May 5. Poland last July abandoned
its 2012 euro adoption goal after higher unemployment depleted
state coffers, sending the deficit to more than twice the bloc’s
3 percent limit. The central bank has left the benchmark rate at
a record-low 3.5 percent since June 2009.  
 According to Poland’s convergence plan, the government
targets a deficit of 5.9 percent of GDP in 2011.  
 Since the crisis started, zloty volatility has picked up,
prompting the central bank in April to resume interventions for
the first time in 12 years. The zloty gained 19 percent trough
to peak from June last year through April 6, and has since lost
6.1 percent against the euro.  
 ‘Potential Signal’  
 “The exchange rate may give a potential signal for
monetary policy changes,” Hausner said.  
 Hausner, who has called zloty interventions “costly and
not successful,” said the country should run a policy that
prevents sudden currency swings.  
 “I see no problem in a stronger zloty as the currency is
in a long-term appreciation trend and one should take that into
account,” Hausner said. “The problem would be a drastic
appreciation because companies have no chance to adapt.”  
 The central bank on April 9 bought foreign currency to
weaken the zloty from a 16-month high. The zloty traded at
4.0846 per euro at 1 p.m. in Warsaw, down from 4.0727 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net 
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        