-- Polish Borrowing Costs to Increase at 10-Year Bond Sale, PKO, SocGen Say
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-06-16T08:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/polish-yields-to-increase-at-10-year-bond-sale-pko-societe-general-say.html

          
          
             Poland’s borrowing costs will rise
in a sale of 10-year bonds today, capping what may be the
government’s biggest month for domestic debt issues this year,
Societe Generale SA, Bank Pekao SA and PKO Bank Polski SA say.  
 The government is offering 1.5 billion zloty ($453 million)
to 3 billion zloty of 5 1/4 percent securities maturing in
October 2020. The average yield will probably reach 5.80
percent, according PKO. Societe Generale predicts the yield at
5.79-5.81 percent and Bank Pekao at around 5.81 percent. That
compares with 5.586 percent at the previous auction on April 14,
the lowest level in three years for 10-year bonds. Results will
be released at noon in Warsaw.  
 Yields on 10-year zloty bonds have risen as much as 0.32
percentage point in the past two months on concern Europe’s debt
crisis may stall the global recovery. Moody’s Investors Service
on June 14 cut Greece’s credit rating to junk. Hungary roiled
world markets this month after local politicians compared the
country’s finances to those of Greece.  
 “We are paying a premium for the European crisis,” said
 Miroslaw Budzicki , a Warsaw-based analyst at PKO, Poland’s
largest bank by assets. “The auction should go well,” with the
government selling at least 2.5 billion zloty of debt, he said.  
 ‘Looks Cheap’  
 Poland sold 5.4 billion zloty of two-year debt on June 2
and 3.03 billion zloty of four-year road bonds on June 9, about
2 billion zloty short of its targeted 10 billion zloty for the
month, which would be the biggest amount sold in any month this
year. The government covered 51 percent of 2010 borrowing needs
through the end of May, the Finance Ministry said on May 31.  
 “They shouldn’t have a problem placing the entire
auction,” said  Aleksandra Bluj , an analyst at Bank Pekao in
Warsaw, Poland’s second-largest bank by assets. “But the longer
end of the curve has been more volatile and sensitive to global
factors, so investors may not be too willing to help the
ministry by accepting lower yields.”  
 Poland should be able to sell the entire offering as
“sentiment in the local market has improved in the past few
days,”  Esther Law , director of emerging-market strategy at
Societe Generale in London, wrote in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg News. The 10-year bond “looks cheap” compared with
October 2019 and November 2022 debt, she said.  
 Inflation, Rates  
 The country’s inflation rate slowed to 2.2 percent, the
lowest since August 2007 and within the central bank’s target
range, as a weak economic recovery damped consumer demand, the
statistics office said yesterday.  Economic growth  decelerated to
3 percent in the first quarter from 3.3 percent in the previous
three months as investments slumped. Policy makers left their
main rate at a record low of 3.5 percent last month. The next
rate-setting meeting is set for June 29-30.  
 Traders have pared bets for rate increases through the end
of the first quarter next year, interest-rate derivatives show.
Money-market futures known as forward-rate agreements indicate
that contracts for three-month cash in nine months declined to
4.19 percent today from 4.74 percent in March, according to data
compiled by  Bloomberg   
 “The ministry will be able to reduce supply in the coming
quarters, which should be positive for the market, especially as
the expectations for rate increases are being delayed,” PKO’s
Budzicki said. “I would expect yields to come down further.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        