-- Producer Prices in U.S. Fall for 3rd Time in 4 Months
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-06-16T13:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/producer-prices-in-u-s-fall-for-third-time-in-four-months-on-energy-food.html

          
          
             Wholesale prices in the U.S. fell in
May for the third time in the past four months, pulled down by
lower costs for energy and food as European default concerns
threatened to slow the global expansion.  
 The 0.3 percent decline in prices paid to factories,
farmers and other producers was smaller than projected by the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
followed a 0.1 percent drop in April, figures from the Labor
Department showed today in Washington. Excluding food and fuel,
so-called  core prices  climbed 0.2 percent for a second month.  
 The European debt crisis has prompted economists to trim
inflation forecasts on increased prospects for weaker global
growth and a strengthening dollar. With about 25 percent of U.S.
plant space idle and employment hovering around 10 percent,
companies have little ability to raise prices, leaving the
Federal Reserve scope to hold its benchmark interest rate near
zero in coming months.  
 “Slack in the labor force and excess capacity continue to
keep inflationary pressure in check,”  Lindsey Piegza , an
economist at FTN Financial in New York, said in a note to
clients. “Deflationary pressures continue to temper
expectations of a near-term change in interest-rate policy.”  
 Other reports today showed production climbed last month
more than anticipated and housing starts dropped more than
forecast, showing manufacturers remain at the forefront of the
U.S. recovery.  
 Manufacturing, Housing  
 Output at factories, mines and utilities increased 1.2
percent in May, the biggest gain since August, figures from the
Fed showed. Housing  starts  fell 10 percent to a 593,000 annual
rate last month, the lowest level this year, and building
 permits  declined to a one-year low, according to Commerce
Department data.  
 Stock-index futures decreased after the reports on concern
over the prospects for the housing market. The contract on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 to 1,103.6 at 9:16 a.m. in
New York. Treasury securities rose.  
 Producer prices were forecast to fall 0.5 percent in May,
according to the median estimate of 78 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Projections ranged from a drop of 1 percent to a
0.2 percent increase.  
 Prices  excluding food and fuel  were projected to rise 0.1
percent. About 40 percent of the increase in core prices last
month was due to a 0.8 percent jump in the cost of light trucks,
the Labor Department said. Cigarette and civilian aircraft
prices also climbed.  
 Less Inflation  
 Compared with a year earlier, companies paid 5.3 percent
more for goods in May after rising 5.5 percent in April.  
 Excluding food and energy, wholesale prices rose 1.3
percent in the 12 months ended in May, after a 1 percent year-
over-year increase a month earlier.  
 The cost of food decreased 0.6 percent in May, the biggest
drop since July, led by a decrease in vegetable costs. Energy
prices fell 1.5 percent last month on cheaper gasoline and home
heating oil.  
 Speculation that European measures to curb deficits will
weaken economic growth caused commodity prices to plummet in
May, which may help contain inflation in coming months. The
Reuters/ Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 raw materials on May 25
reached the lowest level in more than eight months.  
 Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. Figures yesterday showed
prices of goods imported into the U.S. fell 0.6 percent in May
after a 1.1 percent gain a month earlier. Excluding petroleum,
costs rose 0.5 percent.  
 Euro Drop  
 The Greek debt crisis may also limit the cost of imported
goods by pushing up the value of the dollar against the euro,
making goods from the European Union cheaper.  
 The government is scheduled to release its consumer price
index tomorrow. The median estimate of economists surveyed calls
for a 0.2 percent decrease.  
 Another reason prices are contained is because companies
have excess capacity.  The proportion of plants in use rose to
73.7 percent in April, Fed figures showed last week. While that
was the highest level since November 2008, it still is below the
average 80 percent over the last two decades. Lower rates reduce
the risk of bottlenecks that can force prices up.  
 Prices of intermediate goods excluding food and energy
climbed 0.3 in May and were up 6.1 percent compared with a year
earlier, today’s report showed. Prices of core crude goods
dropped 1.6 percent last month and were up 41 percent from a
year ago.  
 Bernanke on Prices  
 “Recent data continue to show a subdued rate of increase
in consumer prices,” Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told the
House Budget Committee on June 9. He noted that the crisis in
Europe was contributing to “lower prices for oil and some other
globally traded commodities.”  
 Nucor Corp. , the largest U.S. steelmaker, yesterday
forecast second-quarter earnings that trailed analysts’
estimates amid weak demand from construction markets. The
Charlotte, North Carolina-based company said operating rates at
its steel mills are similar to those in the first quarter, when
average utilization rates rose to 73 percent.  
 “The most challenging markets for our products continue to
be those associated with residential and non-residential
construction, which continue to show little, if any, strength,”
Nucor said in the statement.  
 For Related News and Information:
Search for stories on the U.S. economy: TNI USECO ECO <GO>
Stories on inflation: TNI US INF <GO>
Stories on the Federal Reserve: NI FED BN <Go>
Fed monetary policy: FOMC <GO>
Central bank rates worldwide: CBRT <GO>
Stories on oil markets: NI OILMARKET <GO>  
          
          


  


        