-- Putin Deputy Shuvalov Says Easy Money Should Stay Away From Russian Stocks
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2010-06-17T08:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/putin-deputy-shuvalov-says-easy-money-should-stay-away-from-russian-stocks.html

          
          
             First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  urged investors to be wary of Russian stocks as policy
makers in the world’s biggest energy exporter try to prevent the
economy from overheating and encourage  long-term investment .  
 “I’d be very cautious about stock investments in this
country,” Shuvalov said yesterday in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Moscow. “I would welcome real investors
who can build factories, something new in this country.”  
 Shuvalov, 43, is leading Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin’s 
drive to attract investment and overhaul the economy after the
first global recession since the 1930s ended 10 straight 
years of growth with a record 7.9 percent contraction. The
English-speaking lawyer jets around Russia with Putin, meets
foreign investors and acts as a link to domestic billionaires.  
 Russia’s modernization needs time, patience and long-term
investments, Shuvalov said. Optimal annual growth rates
shouldn’t exceed 5 percent in the next few years as the
government seeks to control spending, and the central bank
shouldn’t rush to let the ruble trade freely to avoid hurting
domestic producers, he said.  
 The Micex stock index followed oil prices lower in 2008,
falling 67 percent, the most in a decade. The index surged 121
percent last year and is down 0.5 percent in 2010 as a barrel of
Urals crude trades for $75, compared with a high of more than
$140 in 2008.  
 The Micex fell 0.4 percent to 1363.96 as of 12:25 p.m. in
Moscow trading. That compares with a 0.3 percent gain in the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  
 ‘Knowledge-Based Economy’  
 “The conversion to a knowledge-based economy while having
7 percent growth rates is extremely difficult, because there’d
be a big inflow of capital and everybody would want social
spending,” Shuvalov said. “Growth of 4 to 5 percent would let
us really modernize.”  
 President  Dmitry Medvedev  made modernization and innovation
the catchwords of his administration after taking office in
2008. In the next 20 years, Russia should completely abandon oil
and natural gas as a source of funding for the budget, instead
funneling energy revenue into an investment fund as Norway has
done, Shuvalov said.  
 The government plans to spend 110.5 billion rubles ($3.5
billion) through 2015 to build a Russian version of Silicon
Valley, Vedomosti reported last week, citing a draft of the 2011
federal budget.  
 BRIC Comparison  
 It isn’t fair to compare Russia with its BRIC peers Brazil,
India and China, because of structural differences in their
economies, according to Shuvalov. Russia is interested in
“quality” changes to its economy rather than high growth
rates, he said.  
 The Russian economy expanded 2.9 percent in the first
quarter, compared with annual rates of 9 percent in Brazil, 11.9
percent in China and 8.6 percent in India.  
 Shuvalov earned a law degree from Moscow State University
in 1987. He established links with the oligarchs when he worked
at  Alexander Mamut’s  law firm, ALM, where clients included
billionaires  Boris Berezovsky  and  Roman Abramovich , owner of
London’s Chelsea Football Club, Smart Money, a magazine
published by the Vedomosti newspaper group, reported in 2008.  
 The deputy premier started his political career in 1997, a
year before the country defaulted on $40 billion in domestic
debt. During the credit crisis he was Putin’s liaison with the
oligarchs, helping arrange bailouts for billionaires such as
 Oleg Deripaska , chief executive officer of  United Co. Rusal , the
world’s biggest aluminum company.  
 Floating Ruble  
 Shuvalov said he “doubts” Bank Rossii’s plan to let the
ruble float in two years, because the government will need time
to soften the impact of the change on parts of the economy such
as the metals industry.  
 “We’re concerned about ruble appreciation,” he said. “We
have to be prepared for a stronger ruble because we have to
subsidize those industries which would not be able to adapt for
the stronger ruble.”  
 Bank Rossii has “sharply reduced” the extent to which it
steers the ruble’s exchange rate and will come “very close” to
allowing the currency to trade freely in 2011, central bank
Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  said in April.  
 The ruble may gain 20 percent in the next three years
against the currencies of Russia’s major trading partners with
the effects of inflation stripped out, according to a government
report released June 4. It also may strengthen to 28 per dollar
by the end of 2012 and maintain a “trend toward appreciation”
over the next three years, the government said. The ruble traded
for 31.25 per dollar at the close of trading yesterday.  
 Foreign Investment  
 Speculative inflows are helping drive up the ruble, making
domestic products less competitive than imports and hurting
Russian exporters, such as oil producer OAO Rosneft, that have
ruble-denominated costs.  
 Foreign direct investment slipped an annual 17.6 percent to
$2.6 billion in the first quarter on an uneven recovery from the
worst contraction on record, according to the Federal Statistics
Service.  
 Overall foreign investment, including credits and flows
into financial markets, rose 9.3 percent from a year earlier to
$13.1 billion as investment in securities more than doubled, the
statistics service said May 21.  
 While  Russian stocks  may be undervalued, Russia isn’t
seeking investors interested in “quick and easy money,”
Shuvalov said. The government prefers investors who will
participate in state asset sales, which Medvedev wants to use to
bring foreign capital into infrastructure projects such as roads
and power plants.  
 “If we have investors wishing to buy, they are welcome,”
Shuvalov said. “There will not be any kind of delay if we have
a real investor who says, ‘We want a certain asset, please
organize an auction.’ We need just 45 days.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan Chilcote  in Moscow, through the London bureau at 
   rchilcote@bloomberg.net 
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at   lkim3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Igor Shuvalov, Russia's first deputy prime minister  
                       
                         
                           Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Shuvalov is leading Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s drive to attract investment and overhaul the economy after the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Shuvalov is leading Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s drive to attract investment and overhaul the economy after the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
