-- Quaden to Remain Belgian Central Bank Chief Until New Government Is Ready
-- Meera Louis
-- 2010-06-16T14:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/quaden-to-remain-belgian-central-bank-chief-until-new-government-is-ready.html

          
          
             Belgium’s  Guy Quaden  said he will
continue as the nation’s central-bank chief until a new national
government is named following June 13 elections.  
 “I will not be anchored to this job, but I won’t fly away
either,” said Quaden, who also sits on the European Central
Bank’s Governing Council. “I will continue until a new
government has been nominated,” he told reporters today in
Brussels.  
 Quaden, who will turn 65 on Aug. 5, accepted a third five-
year term as head of the Belgian bank in February last year. At
the time, he told the government that he “didn’t wish to get to
the very end of this mandate,” Quaden said today. Belgian news
media have reported that he would retire when he turns 65.  
 Quaden is now waiting for the winners of the national
elections to pull together a coalition government that will
choose his successor. Outgoing Prime Minister  Yves Leterme ’s
government took a record nine months to form three years ago in
the nation of 10.7 million, which is divided between Dutch-
speaking Flanders in the north and French-speaking Wallonia in
the south.  
 Flemish nationalists won the most seats in Belgium’s
general elections, setting up coalition talks with French-
speaking Socialists. The New-Flemish Alliance’s victory has made
it “uncertain” whether  Luc Coene , deputy governor at the
National Bank, will succeed Quaden, Belgium’s De Tijd newspaper
reported today.  
 Six-Party Coalition  
 Bart De Wever , who heads the New-Flemish Alliance, and
Socialist Party President  Elio Di Rupo  both have claims to the
prime minister’s post in a possible six-party coalition. De
Wever said the timing is “very hard” to predict though he
hopes for a coalition agreement by Sept. 1, Belgian magazine
Knack reported yesterday.  
 “The National Bank of Belgium needs in Brussels and in
Frankfurt a governor that can exert his competences,” Quaden
said. “To nominate a governor you need a government.”  
 Quaden was first appointed governor in 1999. Coene has been
vice governor since 2003, according the bank’s website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meera Louis  in Brussels at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        