-- Qualcomm Flo TV Needs Wider Adoption, More Services
-- Ian King
-- 2010-06-16T20:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/qualcomm-flo-tv-needs-more-phone-maker-adoption-data-services-to-succeed.html

          
          
             Qualcomm Inc ., the world’s largest
phone-chip maker, needs to add electronic magazine distribution
and other data services to its Flo mobile TV for the business to
meet the company’s expectations, an executive said.  
 “If it’s only mobile TV, we’re dissatisfied, we’re not
happy with it,”  Bill Stone , the Flo unit’s head, said in an
interview. “There are going to be a lot of revenue streams off
this service.”  
 The service has struggled to attract subscribers partly
because there aren’t enough mobile phones that offer it, Stone
said. San Diego-based Qualcomm plans to expand  Flo ’s network’s
coverage beyond the current 110 U.S. cities, get more phone
manufacturers to adopt it and add TV features and other data
traffic, he said. Samsung Electronics Co.’s Mythic and LG
Electronics Inc.’s Arena are among phones carrying the service.  
 “The company needs to up its game in terms of
deployment,” said  Susan Kevorkian , an analyst for Framingham,
Massachusetts-based IDC.  
 In some cases, the phone models that Qualcomm has worked
with haven’t sold well and that has cut Flo’s potential market.
To counter that, Qualcomm is working on more add-on gadgets that
can be attached to phones, creating the ability to migrate the
service from handset to handset rather than tying it to one. An
example of that is the sleeve that clips onto  Apple Inc .’s
iPhone and acts as the antenna for Flo.  
 Increasing consumer interest in tablet computers following
the release of Apple’s iPad in April may provide another avenue,
Kevorkian said. Flo developed a Japanese-language application
for the iPad and other devices that integrates live video with
Internet data such as baseball statistics.  
 ‘One or 1 Million’  
 Stone says the strain on mobile-phone networks caused by
ballooning demand for video and data should make Flo attractive
to service providers and phone makers. Flo works on a system
using airwaves that  Qualcomm  bought in federal auctions. Flo-
enabled devices have separate radios and chips that enable them
to receive the service from Qualcomm’s transmitters.  
 “One person streaming a video takes up as much bandwidth
as 100 cell phone calls,” said Stone. “Networks break down and
can’t handle it. For me, whether I have one or 1 million users,
it doesn’t matter.”  
 Distributing magazines with high-resolution pictures is
another area where Flo can send content to mobile devices more
effectively than  wireless-service providers , Stone said. His
network would broadcast the data to everyone at once, with only
handsets that have subscriptions enabled to access the files.  
 Qualcomm created its mobile-TV unit in November 2004 and
said it would invest $800 million over a four- to five-year
period. The company spent $683 million to buy radio spectrum in
federal auctions between 2003 and 2008.  
 AT&T, Verizon  
 AT&T Inc.  and Verizon Wireless subscribers can watch
broadcast TV on their mobile phones through the Flo service.  
 Mobile-TV subscriptions industrywide in the U.S. will rise
to 30.3 million in 2013 from about 23.8 million this year,
Kevorkian estimates.  Qualcomm , AT&T and Verizon don’t break out
their customer numbers for mobile TV.  
 Qualcomm, down 24 percent  this year , fell 50 cents, or 1.4
percent, to $35.08 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        