-- RBS Agrees to Sell U.A.E. Retail Banking Unit to Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank
-- Vivian Salama
-- 2010-06-16T16:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/rbs-agrees-to-sell-u-a-e-retail-banking-unit-to-abu-dhabi-commercial-bank.html

          
          
             Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
agreed to sell its retail banking assets in the United Arab
Emirates to  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC , the lender’s third
sale of this week as it reduces international operations.  
 Abu Dhabi Commercial, the third-biggest U.A.E. bank by
assets, will pay a total cash consideration equal to the net
asset value of the business plus $46 million, the lender
announced at a press conference in Abu Dhabi today. The net
assets of the business were about $54 million at the end of
2009, Abu Dhabi Commercial said.  
 “The total amount is yet to be decided,” ADCB Chief
Executive Officer Ala’a Eraiqat said at the conference, adding
that the premium of $46 million is fixed. The deal is subject to
the approval of the U.A.E. central bank, Eraiqat said.  
 “From retail perspective our market share should
increase,” Eraiqat said. “Our credit card portfolio will
double at one go with this acquisition.”  
 RBS CEO  Stephen Hester  is selling assets after his
predecessor, Fred Goodwin, left the bank with a presence in more
than 54 countries following more than $100 billion of
acquisitions. The Edinburgh-based lender, which is 83 percent
owned by the government, today agreed to sell its Pakistan unit
for 41 million euros ($50.5 million) to Faysal Bank Ltd. On June
14, RBS agreed to sell its Argentine unit to Banco Comafi SA for
an undisclosed sum.  
 The bank also sold its Colombian investment-banking
business to Bank of Nova Scotia in March, as well as its
offshore loan book that covers assets in Argentina, Chile and
Venezuela.  
 RBS  acquired the U.A.E. unit in 2007 after a group
including RBS,  Banco Santander SA  and Fortis bought ABN Amro
Holding NV in the world’s biggest banking takeover. The unit
includes credit card, personal and private-banking businesses.  
 RBS will not surrender its U.A.E. banking license with the
sale of the unit,  Simon Penney , RBS’s chief executive officer
for the Middle East and Africa, said March 4.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vivian Salama  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net 
 Zahraa Alkhalisi  in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        