-- Treasuries Advance as U.S. Housing Starts, Producer Prices Declined in May
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-06-16T20:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/treasuries-advance-as-drop-in-housing-starts-producer-prices-deters-risk.html

          
          
             Treasury 10-year notes rose for the
first time in three days as reports showed housing starts fell
in May the most in more than a year and producer prices dropped.  
 The gain sent the  yield  down from almost the highest level
since June 4 on evidence the U.S. recovery is stalling. The euro
fell from a two-week high as Spain, the International Monetary
Fund, the European Union and the U.S. Treasury dismissed a
report in the newspaper El Economista that the Iberian nation is
seeking a 250 billion euro ($307 billion) credit line.  
 “The housing number was weaker than expected,” said
 Thomas Tucci , head of U.S. government bond trading in New York
at Royal Bank of Canada, one of 18 primary dealers that trade
directly with the Federal Reserve. “The landscape is getting
weaker, which suggests lower rates from here.”  
 The yield on the 10-year note dropped four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 3.26 percent at 4 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The yield earlier rose to
3.31 percent, within two basis points of the highest level since
June 4. The 3.5 percent security maturing in May 2020 rose
11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 31/32.  
 The 10-year note’s  yield  fluctuated with stocks. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  ended the day little changed after
rising 0.3 percent and falling as much as 0.7 percent.  
 The euro traded at $1.2307 after rising to $1.2353,
matching the level on June 1. The yield  premium  investors demand
to hold Spanish 10-year government bonds instead of German bunds
rose to a euro-era record, widening to 217 basis points.  
 ‘No Truth’  
 There’s “no truth” to speculation that the IMF is
preparing an emergency credit line for Spain, IMF spokeswoman
Simonetta Nardin said. IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss- Kahn  said he’s going to Spain on a working visit.  
 Spain’s central bank said today it plans to publish the
results of stress tests carried out at the nation’s lenders in
an effort to boost confidence in the country’s financial system.  
 Treasuries have returned 4.2 percent since the start of the
year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bunds have returned 6.5 percent, while Spanish securities have
lost 3.6 percent, the indexes show.  
 “The worries about the euro zone and the speed in which
the U.S. recovery is currently moving has almost ‘forced’
investors back into the Treasury market,”  Kevin Giddis ,
president of fixed income in Memphis, Tennessee, at the
brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc., wrote in a research note to
clients. Investors “would rather have their money safe and
close rather than chasing a higher yield,” he wrote.  
 Producer Prices  
 Prices paid to U.S. factories, farmers and other producers
dropped 0.3 percent last month, the Labor Department reported.
Housing starts fell 10 percent in May to a 593,000 annual pace
in the biggest decline since March 2009, Commerce Department
figures showed.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a 28 percent
chance the Fed will raise its benchmark rate by at least a
quarter-percentage point by its December meeting, down from 40
percent odds a month earlier.  
 The U.S. central bank lowered its fed funds  target rate  to
a range of zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008 to reduce
borrowing costs and help stimulate the economy. The Federal Open
Market Committee is next scheduled to deliver a policy decision
on June 23.  
 “Inflation is still benign, and no inflation pressure
means the Fed has no reason to think about moving rates any time
soon,” said  Guy Lebas , chief fixed-income strategist and
economist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “The
euro is weaker, which is encouraging flight-to-quality pressure
into Treasuries.”  
 Fed Economic Outlook  
 Fed officials may reduce their 2010 estimates by “several
tenths” of a percentage point and as much as 0.75 point for
2011, former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley  said in an interview.
That would mark a reversal from April, when officials raised
their projections for this year to a range of 3.2 percent to 3.7
percent and left 2011 and 2012 forecasts little changed.  
 The new estimates are likely to reinforce the Fed’s pledge,
in place since March 2009, that interest rates will stay low for
an “extended period,” said former Fed researcher  John Ryding .  
 The Treasury 10-year note  yield  is poised to drop below its
lowest level this year as its trend lines form a “bullish
triangle pattern,” according to Nomura Holdings Inc., citing
technical analysis.  
 “The chart pattern suggests the market will try to push
toward the low yield of the range again,” said  Walter Burke , a
fixed-income technical strategist in New York at Nomura, a
primary dealer. “The market is signaling there will be a
breaking-down to new yield lows, below 3.06 percent and possibly
toward 3 percent.”  
 The 10-year note’s yield fell on May 25 to 3.06 percent,
the lowest level since April 2009. A triangle pattern is formed
when upper and lower trend lines intersect.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        