-- Reid Hitches Christmas Eve Ride on Feinstein Husband's Plane
-- James Rowley
-- 2010-06-17T04:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/reid-boxer-report-hitching-christmas-eve-ride-on-feinstein-husband-s-jet.html

          
          
             Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
hitched a ride to the West Coast on a private jet owned by
Senator  Dianne Feinstein ’s husband after the Senate passed a
version of health-care legislation last Christmas Eve, according
to Reid’s financial disclosure form.  
 Predictions of stormy winter weather prompted the Senate to
conduct an early morning vote on the bill Dec. 24 to give
lawmakers as much time as possible to travel to their home
states for the Christmas holidays. It was the Senate’s first
Christmas Eve session held to pass legislation since 1963,
according to the Senate historian’s office.  
 Reid, a Nevada Democrat, and Senator  Barbara Boxer , a
California Democrat, flew to San Francisco aboard a Gulfstream
jet owned by Feinstein’s husband,  Richard C. Blum , chairman of
Los Angeles-based CB Richard Ellis Group Inc., said Gil Duran, a
spokesman for Feinstein, in an e-mail. Feinstein, a California
Democrat, also was on the flight, her husband wasn’t, Duran
said.  
 Reid and Boxer reported receiving their gifts of free
transportation, which they valued at $3,625, on the annual
financial disclosure forms for Senate and House members that
were released yesterday. Such gifts must be listed on the form.  
 Both lawmakers stated that the flight’s value was
“determined in consultation with the ethics committee staff.”
Boxer, 69, chairs the Senate ethics panel.  
 Invitation Offered  
 As bad weather interfered with commercial air traffic to
the West, Reid accepted an invitation from Feinstein, 76, to fly
on the plane, said Jon Summers, a Reid spokesman. The flight
left Washington immediately after the Senate vote, Summers said.  
 A final version of the health-care overhaul measure cleared
Congress in late March and was signed into law by President
 Barack Obama .  
 Reid, 70, who reported a net worth of at least $1.56
million to $3.6 million, flew by commercial airliner to Reno,
Nevada, where he spent Christmas with his wife, Landra, and
their son’s family, Summers said.  
 Besides chairing the Los Angeles-based real-estate services
firm, Blum, 74, is chairman of  Blum Capital Partners LP , an
investment management firm based in San Francisco.  
 Pelosi’s Husband  
 In other disclosure statements released yesterday, House
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  reported that her husband, San Francisco
real-estate investor Paul Pelosi, sold as much as $25 million of
his holdings in  Apple Inc.  during an eight-month period when the
shares almost doubled in value. He made a capital gain of
between $1 million and $5 million.  
 The closing price of Apple shares was $123.40 on April 20,
2009, the day Pelosi first sold the stock, and was $211.61 on
Dec. 28, the last day he sold Apple. The speaker reported that
her husband still owned as much as $5 million worth of Apple
stock at year’s end.  
 Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat and author of “Know
Your Power, A Message to America’s Daughters,” reported earning
$102,161 in book royalties.  
 Senator  John Ensign , a Nevada Republican, received between
$100,000 and $250,000 as partial payment for the veterinary
practice he sold after being elected to the Senate.  
 House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat, received round-trip airfare to Los
Angeles, a hotel room and meals for a May appearance on comedian
 Bill Maher ’s television show.  
 Milwaukee Bucks  
 Wisconsin Democratic Senator  Herb Kohl , owner of the
Milwaukee Bucks basketball team, holds his assets in a blind
trust worth more than $50 million. The trust earned more than $5
million last year.  
 Representative  Leonard Boswell , an Iowa Democrat, made
between $50,000 and $10,000 selling calves for breeding.
Representative  Sam Graves , a Missouri Republican, sold a 1967
Piper Cherokee airplane for between $15,000 and $50,000.  
 Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, reported almost
$12,000 in book and music royalties. Other authors included
Senators  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, who received
$42,500, the second half of a book advance, and  Byron Dorgan , a
North Dakota Democrat, who received a final payment of $29,750
for his book.  
 Kentucky Republican  Jim Bunning , the only U.S. senator in
the Baseball Hall of Fame, earned $18,000 for appearances at
baseball card shows and received Senate Ethics Committee
approval to accept a $12,300 ring from his former team, the
Philadelphia Phillies, to commemorate its 2008 World Series win.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        