-- Reliance Industries Said to Plan $3.4 Billion Bid to Produce Electricity
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-06-16T11:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/reliance-industries-said-to-plan-3-4-billion-bid-to-produce-electricity.html

          
          
             Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s
biggest company by market value, plans to build at least one
power plant in the country, marking the oil company’s entry in
commercial electricity generation, two company officials said.  
 The Mumbai-based refiner and energy explorer is considering
bidding for a 4,000 megawatt coal-fired plant in eastern India
that may cost as much as 160 billion rupees ($3.4 billion), said
the officials briefed on the plan, who declined to be identified
before a decision is taken. One megawatt is enough to power
about 200 middle-class homes in India.  
 India’s government has invited bids for a 4,000-megawatt
project in Chhattisgarh by July 5 and another in the adjoining
Orissa state by July 30. Reliance may seek to build the
Chhattisgarh plant, one of the officials said today. A company
spokesman didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comments.  
 Reliance’s plan to start power generation follows a June 11
decision to buy a wireless Internet services company for $1
billion as it seeks to expand beyond refining oil, making
chemicals and natural gas production. The diversification became
possible after billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  ended a non-
competition agreement with his brother  Anil Ambani  on May 23.  
 “Power is a natural area of diversification for Reliance
after the no-compete agreement ended,” said Apurva Shah, head
of research at Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in Mumbai. “They have
the skills to execute large projects and the money to fund it.”  
 Reliance’s Cash  
 The operator of the world’s biggest refining complex and
India’s largest natural gas field had outstanding debt of about
625 billion rupees ($13.4 billion) and cash and equivalents of
218.7 billion rupees as of March 31, the company said in April.
Reliance is in talks with banks to borrow $1 billion, two people
with direct knowledge of the matter said June 4.  
 The world’s richest brothers split India’s second-biggest
business empire five years ago after their father died in 2002
without leaving a will and squabbled as their business interests
collided. Under the 2005 agreement, Mukesh, 53, kept the
petrochemicals, oil and gas units and Anil, 50, got the power,
financial services, telecommunications, and entertainment units.  
 Reliance Power Ltd. , a company run by Anil Ambani, won
three of India’s four so-called ultra mega power projects of
4,000 megawatts each auctioned by the government so far. The
government plans to bar companies from bidding to build more
than three such power plants at a time to ensure their timely
completion,  H.S. Brahma , then power secretary, said Jan. 15.  
 The government proposes to build nine such plants to help
almost double the country’s installed generation capacity in the
next seven years.  
 Reliance Industries  fell 0.8 percent to close at 1,057.95
rupees in Mumbai trading, its first decline in six days. The
shares have lost 1.3 percent in the past year compared with a 17
percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index  of the Bombay
Stock Exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Reliance Industries Ltd. sign is lit at night at a gas station in Mumbai, India. Photographer: Abhijit Bhatlekar/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
