-- Remy Cointreau Bond Roadshow May End Europe's Monthlong Junk Debt Drought
-- Sonja Cheung
-- 2010-06-16T11:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/remy-cointreau-bond-roadshow-may-end-europe-s-month-long-junk-debt-drought.html

          
          
             Remy Cointreau SA , the maker of
cognac and Bols liqueur, is meeting with high-yield debt
investors to propose what may be Europe’s first junk-bond sale
in more than a month.  
 France’s second-largest liquor company hired Credit Suisse
Group AG and Credit Agricole CIB to organize the Paris meetings,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. A sale
would be the first sub-investment grade issue since brake-pad
maker TMD Friction Holding GmbH raised 160 million euros ($197
million) on May 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Bond sales by companies rated below Baa3 at Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s have stalled on
investor concerns that Europe’s debt crisis will hurt economic
growth, making it harder for borrowers to repay debt. High-yield
bond issuance dropped 85 percent in May to $1.3 billion compared
with the previous month, Bloomberg data show.  
 “There’s likely to be appetite for Remy bonds as investors
remain hungry for yield and have seen very little issuance,”
said  Alex Moss , a fund manager at Insight Investment Management
in London, which manages 100 billion pounds ($148 billion) of
assets. “Remy is a good quality name, and will be a good test
of the market.”  
 Remy spokeswoman  Joelle Jezequel  in Paris declined to
comment.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold junk bonds rather
than government debt jumped 65 basis points this year to 833
basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 TMD Friction sold its seven-year notes with a yield spread
of 843 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  
 Remy last tapped bond investors in 2005 when it sold 200
million euros of seven-year notes, Bloomberg data show. The
Paris-based company is rated Ba2 by Moody’s, two-levels below
investment grade, and a step lower at BB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 The liquor maker’s full-year profit was little changed amid
higher advertising expenses and costs related to job cuts, it
said last week. Remy fell 0.9 percent to 41.42 euros at 1:14
p.m. in Paris. The shares are up 25 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in London 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        