-- Trident, Anaverde, Movie Gallery, Tribune, Chemtura, Corus: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-06-16T12:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/trident-anaverde-movie-gallery-tribune-chemtura-corus-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Trident Resources Corp . brought a
nine-month reorganization to fruition yesterday when the
bankruptcy judge signed a confirmation order approving the
Chapter 11 plan for the independent natural gas production and
development company. The plan was unopposed.  
 The plan, funded in part by a backstopped equity rights
offering up to $255 million, allows for senior and junior
secured lenders to own the new stock. Originally, the rights
offering was $200 million.  
 Under the 2006 credit agreement, lenders will receive 40
percent of the stock plus the right to purchase an additional 45
percent in the rights offering, on account of their $422 million
in claims.  
 Creditors with $137 million in claims under the 2007 credit
agreement can purchase 15 percent of the stock in the rights
offering.  
 Unsecured creditors and existing stockholders receive
nothing under the plan.  
 The rights offering gives the reorganized company an
implied equity value of $425 million, according to the
disclosure statement. The implied enterprise value is $772
million.  
 There will be $380 million in debt on emergence from
bankruptcy, compared with funded debt of $1.2 billion before
bankruptcy.  
 For implementation of the U.S. reorganization, a companion
restructuring of Canadian affiliates must be approved by the
Court of Queen’s Bench in Calgary under the Companies’ Creditors
Arrangement Act.  
 The companies filed for reorganization in September in the
U.S. and Canada. Trident focuses on coal-bed methane.  
 The case is In re Trident Resources Corp., 09-13150, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Updates  
 Fifth Third May Pursue Ahmed Zayat on Debt Guarantee  
 Although  Zayat Stables LLC  may have the upper hand in
bankruptcy court over  Fifth Third Bank , the secured lender won a
victory in U.S. district court over the stables’ owner,  Ahmed Zayat .  
 When the stables filed under Chapter 11 in February in New
Jersey, the Cincinnati-based bank had a lawsuit already pending
in U.S. district court in Lexington, Kentucky, attempting to
recover a $34.5 million loan. In the same suit, the bank also
was attempting to collect the debt from Ahmed Zayat on his
guarantee.  
 The district judge in Kentucky stayed the lawsuit as a
result of the bankruptcy filing by the stables. The bank
responded by filing a motion to lift the stay so it could
continue suing Ahmed Zayat on his guarantee.  
 In a ruling on June 14, the district judge in Kentucky
allowed the bank to continue suing Ahmed Zayat on the guarantee.
He argued unsuccessfully that the guarantee suit should remain
in limbo until there’s resolution of a suit the stables filed in
bankruptcy court accusing Fifth Third of predatory lending
practices.  
 The district judge in Kentucky invited Ahmed Zayat to file
counterclaims in her court alleging the same allegedly predatory
practices.  
 It remains to be seen whether the stables will attempt to
have the New Jersey bankruptcy judge stop the district court
suit.  
 Creditors are voting on the stables’ reorganization plan in
advance of a July 15 confirmation hearing. The plan calls for
paying creditors in full over time, allowing Ahmed Zayat to
retain ownership. Because the bank isn’t to be paid under the
bankruptcy plan in accordance with the pre-bankruptcy loan
agreement, it remains to be seen whether confirming the plan and
paying the bank in full over time will result in a voluntary or
involuntary halt of the lawsuit on Ahmed Zayat’s personal
guarantee.  
 The plan calls for bringing the bank’s interest current
when the plan becomes effective. The principal owing on the loan
will be paid in installments through the end of 2014.  
 Unsecured creditors, with $1.2 million in claims, are to be
paid in full without interest over two years.  
 Amend Zayat said he personally invested $40 million in the
business.  
 The stables, based in Hackensack, New Jersey, filed under
Chapter 11 in February in Newark. At the time, the bank was
seeking the appointment of a receiver.  
 The stables have more than 200 horses, representing
collateral for bank. The horses are valued at $37 million,
according an appraisal cited in a court paper. Revenue in 2009
was $21 million.  
 The suit on the guarantee is Fifth Third Bank v. Zayat
Stables LLC, 09-401, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Kentucky (Lexington). The Chapter 11 case is In re Zayat Stables
LLC, 10-13130, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark).  
 RPM, Asbestos Claimants Face August Trial Over Lawsuits  
 Asbestos claimants agreed with  RPM International Inc.  to
hold a trial on Aug. 9 to decide whether the bankruptcy court
will continue to enjoin lawsuits against RPM and affiliates that
aren’t in Chapter 11.  
 Two of RMP’s non-operating subsidiaries, Specialty Products
Holding Corp. and Bondex International Inc., filed under Chapter
11 on May 31 and immediately asked the bankruptcy judge to stop
suits against the non-bankrupt affiliates which are claimed not
to be directly liable on asbestos claims.  
 The judge granted a temporary injunction and was to hold a
hearing yesterday for continuation of the halt against suits.
Rather than fight yesterday, the parties decided to schedule
pre-trial discovery and arrange for resolution of the dispute at
the Aug. 9 hearing. In the meantime, the halt will continue on
suits against the entire family of companies.  
 Asbestos claimants will file their briefs on July 16. The
companies will submit their papers on July 29.  
 Specialty Products and Bondex sought Chapter 11 relief to
deal with 10,000 asbestos claims. The companies are aiming for a
resolution to the reorganization where the non-bankrupt
affiliates may make a contribution to an asbestos claimants’
fund, allowing a Chapter 11 plan to absolve the entire family of
companies from liability on personal-injury claims.  
 Non-bankrupt subsidiaries of Specialty Product generate
about $330 million in annual revenue. Bondex, which is no longer
operating, is a Specialty Products subsidiary that is chiefly
responsible for asbestos claims from a company acquired in 1966
named Reardon Co.  
 RPM, based in Medina, Ohio, had consolidated assets of
$3.34 billion and liabilities of $2.13 billion as of Feb. 28.
The Specialty Products and Bondex Chapter 11 petitions both said
assets and debt exceed $100 million.  
 The case is In re Specialty Products Holding Corp., 10-
11780, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Anaverde, California Developer, Wins Approval of Plan  
 Anaverde LLC, the developer of a master-planned community
in Palmdale, California, secured approval of the Chapter 11 plan
when the bankruptcy judge in Delaware signed a confirmation
order on June 14.  
 The plan allows existing owners to buy back the business.
There were no competing bids submitted at auction.  
 The plan gives the secured lender, Cadim Note Inc.,
approximately $11.8 million plus 25 percent of proceeds above
$26 million if the property is resold within two years. The
lender is owed $63.9 million.  
 The disclosure statement said that the lender could recover
up to 16.4 percent. The lender carved out $350,000 cash for
unsecured creditors.  
 San Francisco-based Anaverde discovered a spur of the San
Andreas Fault under the property before the Chapter 11 filing in
January. The project, the second phase of a development, was to
have 3,500 lots. The property was partially graded. No homes
were constructed.  
 Papers together with the petition listed the assets for
$25.2 million against debt totaling $65.1 million.  
 The case is In re Anaverde LLC, 10-10113, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Movie Gallery Selling DVDs, Video Games for $8 Million  
 Movie Gallery Inc. , which is closing its last 1,028 movie-
rental stores, is selling the inventory at the distribution
center in Nashville, Tennessee, in two sales totaling over $8
million.  
 VPD IV Inc. is under contract to buy some 1.2 million Blu-
ray and DVD movies for $5.06 million. COKeM International Ltd.
will take the video games and related accessories for $3.03
million.  
 In both cases, Movie Gallery will accept higher offers,
although without holding a formal auction. The hearing for
approval of the sales is set for June 24.  
 Movie Gallery had approximately 2,600 stores in operation
on filing under Chapter 11 again in February. The new filing
came less than two years after the previous bankruptcy
reorganization. When the new case began, debt included $100
million on a secured revolving credit, $394 million on a first-
lien facility, and $146 million in claims held by second-lien
creditors.  
 Great American Group Inc.  won the right to close the last
1,028 stores by guaranteeing $74.2 million.  
 Movie Gallery operates under the names Movie Gallery,
Hollywood Video, and Game Crazy. It had 3,490 stores before the
first bankruptcy, which concluded with a confirmed Chapter 11
plan in May 2007. For details on the second filing, click here.  
 The new case is In re Movie Gallery Inc., 10-30696, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia (Richmond). The
prior case is In re Movie Gallery Inc., 07-33849, in the same
court.  
 Chemtura Reports $2 Million Net Profit in May  
 Specialty chemical maker  Chemtura Corp.  reported a $3
million operating profit and a $2 million net profit in May on
net sales of $209 million.  
 Chemtura said in May it planned to file a reorganization
plan by tomorrow that would pay creditors nearly in full and
might include a distribution for shareholders. In court
yesterday, the company said it hopes to have environmental
claims settled with state authorities by mid-July. For Bloomberg
coverage on the hearing, click here.  
 The creditors’ committee is suing Chemtura’s lenders based
on a theory that a security interest given within three months
of bankruptcy on inventory and other assets was a preference the
bankruptcy judge can void. In addition, the committee wants to
recover $6 million in payments that were also preferences. The
committee claims the banks’ collateral only covers a $46.1
million loan, not loans totaling $139.2 million.  
 The Chapter 11 petition in March 2009 by Middlebury,
Connecticut-based Chemtura listed assets of $3.06 billion
against debt totaling $2.6 billion, including $1.02 billion
owing on three issues of notes and debentures. Sales in 2008 of
$3.5 billion declined to $2.5 billion in 2009. The subsidiaries
outside of the U.S. didn’t file.  
 The case is Chemtura Corp., 09-11233, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 New Filing  
 Corus Bankshares Files, Bank Taken Over in September  
 Corus Bankshares Inc ., the holding company whose bank was
taken over by regulators in September, filed a Chapter 11
petition yesterday in Chicago, listing assets of $314.1 million
against debt totaling $532.9 million.  
 Corus said in March that Chapter 11 or liquidation were
among the alternatives under consideration. Corus said at the
time that it expects to have tax refund claims totaling $260
million. Corus promised to oppose efforts by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. to receive cash for the bank subsidiary’s
portion of the tax refunds.  
 Corus contended that the FDIC is in the same position as
other unsecured creditors of the holding company and that the
tax refund should be shared.  
 The Corus bank had 80 branches and $7 billion in deposits
that were transferred to  MB Financial Inc.  in a transaction
estimated at the time of the September takeover to cost the FDIC
$1.7 billion.  
 The case is In re Corus Bankshares Inc., 10-26881, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District Illinois (Chicago).  
 Watch List  
 Retailer Loehmann’s Hires Three Financial Advisers  
 Loehmann’s Inc. , a discount retailer with more than 60
stores, hired three financial advisory firms with experience in
turnarounds and bankruptcy reorganizations. The firms are
AlixPartners LLP, Perella Weinberg Partners and Clear Thinking
Group LLC, according to people with knowledge of the situation.  
 To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 The Bronx, New York-based company is owned indirectly by
Istithmar PJSC, an investment firm owned by the government of
Dubai.  
 Loehmann’s emerged from a 14-month Chapter 11
reorganization with a confirmed plan in September 2000. At the
time, it operated 44 stores in 17 states.  
 Statistics  
 May Claim Trades Miss April Record, SecondMarket Says  
 Claim trades reported to the country’s bankruptcy courts in
May totaled $3.3 billion in face amount, short of the record
$3.65 billion in April, according to SecondMarket Inc. which
began keeping records in January 2008.  
 With $3 billion of traded claims,  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  was responsible for the bulk of activity. The Lehman
transfers were 237 in number, more than twice the second most
actively traded,  Smurfit-Stone Container Corp ., with 130 trades.  
 In dollar amount, old  General Motors Corp . was in second
place with $141.7 million of traded claims.  
 Reported claim trades exceeded $3 billion in three months
over the last year, says SecondMarket, which calls itself the
largest  secondary market  for illiquid assets.  
 In May claims were traded in 47 separate bankruptcy cases,
compared with 62 cases in April.  
 Briefly Noted  
 Visteon, Texas Rangers Hearings End Without Decisions  
 Yesterday’s hearings in the reorganizations of auto-parts
maker  Visteon Corp . and the  Texas Rangers  professional baseball
team ended without rulings from the judges. In the Visteon case,
the judge said he would issue a ruling at a hearing tomorrow on
whether he will approve the disclosure statement. The Rangers
judge is deciding if he can proceed to a confirmation hearing in
July and approve the reorganization plan without a vote of
creditors.  
 For a discussion of the issues in both the Visteon and
Rangers cases, click here to see the first two items in
yesterday’s Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Strauss Auto Has Vote Exclusivity Extended to July 26  
 Because  Strauss Discount Auto  won’t have an approved
Chapter 11 plan at the previously scheduled June 21 confirmation
hearing, the auto-parts retailer sought and received an
extension until July 26 of the exclusive right to solicit
acceptances on a reorganization plan.  
 The company said it needs to change the plan that promised
to pay 65 percent to unsecured creditors with claims aggregating
$18.7 million. If the group doesn’t recover at least 45 percent,
creditors would have ended up owning all the new stock. If the
45 percent threshold is met, Chief Executive Officer Glenn
Langsberg was to have an option to buy all the stock for
$300,000.  
 A suit is pending against the former Japanese owner,
 Autobacs Seven Co.  Autobacs has a $44 million claim that
creditors are hoping to have disallowed or subordinated.  
 Strauss Auto is in Chapter 11 a third time. The stores are
in New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. The new petition in
February 2009 listed assets of $75 million against debt totaling
$72 million. Debt initially was shown to include $44 million
listed as owing to the parent under loan agreements, $9.6
million owing to suppliers, and $12 million in debt owing to
landlords and other unsecured creditors.  
 There were 86 stores and no secured debt when the Chapter
11 case began. Twenty stores were closed.  
 The new case is In re Autobacs Strauss Inc., 09-10358, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington). The prior
case was In re 1945 Route 23 Associates, 06-17474, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 Bondholders Seek to Block Tribune Plan at the FCC  
 Newspaper publisher  Tribune Co.  shouldn’t be allowed to
transfer broadcast licenses, bondholders told the Federal
Communications Commission. Creditors are voting on Tribune’s
reorganization plan in anticipation of an Aug. 16 confirmation
hearing. To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 The plan, filed in April, would implement a settlement
negotiated with some creditors. It is opposed by holders of $3.6
billion in pre-bankruptcy secured debt who announced their
opposition even before the settlement was formally disclosed. To
read about the plan, the proposed settlement, and the parties’
arguments, click here for the April 13 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Spheris Has Exclusive Plan Rights Until September 1  
 Spheris Inc., a transcriber of medical dictation for
doctors and hospitals, was granted its request and received an
extension of the exclusive right to propose a reorganization
plan until Sept. 1. The hearing for approval of the disclosure
statement explaining the liquidating Chapter 11 plan is set for
July 13. The papers don’t say how much creditors can expect.  
 Now formally named SP Wind Down Inc., Spheris sold the
business for $98.83 million cash and a note that it sold for
$13.77 million. At Jan. 31, secured lenders were owed $75.6
million. Unsecured claims consist largely of $125 million owing
on subordinated notes. Franklin, Tennessee-based Spheris listed
assets of $61 million against debt totaling $225 million,
including $75.6 million on a senior secured credit and $125
million on subordinated notes. For nine months ended in
September, revenue was $120 million.  
 The case is In re SP Wind Down Inc., 10-10352, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Pennsylvania’s Tyrone Hospital Confirms Reorganization Plan  
 Tyrone Hospital from Blair County, Pennsylvania, is set to
emerge from reorganization after almost four years. It filed
under Chapter 11 in September 2006 and will stay in business
with a Chapter 11 plan confirmed May 10. Unsecured creditors are
being paid $1 million.  
 The case is In re Tyrone Hospital, 06-70759, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Western District of Pennsylvania (Johnstown).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Texas Rangers, Visteon, Extended Stay: Audio  
 Texas Rangers ,  Visteon Corp .,  Extended Stay Inc ., and
 Medical Staffing Network Holdings Inc.  are the bankruptcy cases
covered in the latest bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg
terminal and Bloomberglaw.com.  
 To listen, click here.  
 Advance Sheets  
 SEC Receivership May Block Involuntary Bankruptcy  
 In a receivership initiated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, a federal court may properly prohibit creditors from
filing an involuntary bankruptcy petition, a panel of the U.S.
Court of Appeals in Manhattan ruled yesterday.  
 The case involved the receivership of Wextrust Capital LLC,
which was alleged to be a $255 million Ponzi scheme. Although
prohibiting an involuntary bankruptcy filing by creditors, the
U.S. district judge said the SEC receiver could put Wextrust in
Chapter 11. If he did, the receiver would continue in control in
the Chapter 11 case.  
 The 2nd Circuit in New York ruled that an injunction
prohibiting bankruptcy should be “sparsely exercised.” Still,
creditors, according to the appeals court, have no “absolute
right” to file a bankruptcy petition. In that regard, the 2nd
Circuit lined up with the Courts of Appeal for the 6th and 9th
Circuits.  
 The opinion, written by Circuit Judge  Rosemary S. Pooler ,
said that “the receivership accomplishes what bankruptcy
would.”  
 Although the receiver would continue in control akin to a
trustee or debtor-in-possession were the receiver to decide on
using Chapter 11, the appeals court said that creditors could
attempt to oust the receiver once bankruptcy began.  
 The case is International Ad-Hoc Committee of Wextrust
Creditors v. Securities and Exchange Commission, 09-0234, U.S.
2nd Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  
 Bankruptcy Trustee’s Suit Fails Against Bank Officers  
 When a bank is taken over by regulators, only the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. has the right to sue bank officers and
directors, the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta
ruled on June 14. The appeals court also established standards
that must be met before a suit against holding company officers
can survive.  
 The bankruptcy trustee for a bank holding company filed a
lawsuit against the officers and directors of both the bank and
the holding company. The circuit court sustained a motion to
dismiss the entire complaint.  
 With regard to the suit against bank officers, the 11th
Circuit interpreted the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery
and Enforcement Act of 1989 to mean that only the FDIC has the
right to sue for mismanagement that harmed the bank.  
 To reach the result, the circuit court said that the
holding company bankruptcy trustee was suing as the shareholder
of the bank. As a shareholder, the trustee’s only remedy was to
file a so-called derivative suit. In turn, FIRREA bestows the
FDIC with the sole right to bring derivative suits. A derivative
suit is one where someone sues on behalf of the company itself,
in substance asserting claims that belong to the company.  
 The 11th Circuit also dismissed the suit against holding
company officers even though the complaint said they allowed the
bank to engage in “unsound practices.” The allegations by
themselves were not enough to sustain a complaint, the appeals
court ruled.  
 The court said that the complaint might have survived had
the trustee alleged, for instance, that the holding company
officers failed to tell the board about mismanagement at the
bank.  
 The case is Lubin v. Skow, 10-01155, 11th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (Atlanta)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        