-- Hedgehog Cancer Drug From Curis, Roche Failed in Colorectal Clinical Trial
-- Dermot Doherty
-- 2010-06-16T20:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/roche-curis-hedgehog-treatment-fails-in-colon-cancer-trial-curis-drops.html

          
          
             Roche Holding AG  and  Curis Inc .’s
experimental treatment for cancers with an overactive mutated
gene failed to help patients in a study of colorectal tumors.
Curis’s shares fell 48 percent.  
 Curis’s drug, a so-called hedgehog-pathway inhibitor,
combined with the Avastin tumor drug and chemotherapy didn’t
keep the disease at bay or extend lives of patients compared
with those given standard treatment, Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based Curis said today in a statement. The study of 199 patients
was the biggest yet for the hedgehog treatment.  
 The compound, called GDC-0449, is designed to block signals
from overactive hedgehog genes. The drug helped shrink tumors in
a previous study of a form of advanced skin cancer and is being
tested against ovarian cancer. Roche and its Genentech unit plan
a study of the medicine against earlier stages of skin cancer in
the second half of this year.  
 “Probability of success was low, but upside was high,”
said  Jason Kantor , an analyst at RBC Markets in San Francisco,
in a note to clients. “The failure of GDC-0449 removes a
potential major positive catalyst and potentially has negative
read-through to several ongoing trials.”  
 Kantor reiterated his “outperform” rating on Curis stock
after today’s sell-off and said he still expects positive
results in tests against skin cancer known as basal-cell
carcinoma.  
 “However, the market opportunity in basal-cell carcinoma
market is a fraction of the multibillion-dollar colorectal-
cancer market,” he said.  
 Shares Tumble  
 Curis fell $1.57, to $1.69, at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. It was the  biggest 
single-day drop for the company, which first sold shares in
August 2000. Roche, based in Basel, Switzerland, rose 1.9 Swiss
francs, or 1.2 percent, to 158.6 francs in Zurich trading.  
 The sonic hedgehog gene is named after a resemblance to the
lead character in a popular video game series in the early 1990s
called “Sonic the Hedgehog,” made by Tokyo-based Sega Corp.,
according to articles published by the journals Nature and Cell.  
 GDC-0449 is being studied in more than 15 trials in cancers
of the breast, stomach, pancreas, ovaries, skin and brain,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Roche is examining the
drug in advanced basal cell carcinoma in a study it expects to
complete in 2011. The company will also begin research this year
in skin cancer patients whose disease is in earlier, operable
stages.  
 Other Indications  
 “Despite these disappointing results in metastatic
colorectal cancer, we remain encouraged,”  Dan Passeri , chief
executive officer at Curis, said in a statement. “GDC-0449 may
offer potential benefit in other cancer indications because the
hedgehog pathway is thought to act via different mechanisms of
action in other tumor types.”  
 In a study reported in the  New England Journal of Medicine 
in September, 18 of 33 adults with an advanced basal cell
carcinoma had their tumors shrink while taking the drug. Basal-
cell carcinoma is the most common form of skin cancer,
afflicting about 1 million people in the U.S. each year. It is
curable for 85 to 99 percent of patients, according to the Skin
Cancer Foundation. The Roche study focused on patients whose
cancer had defied treatment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        