-- Romanian Stocks, Bonds Jump as Prime Minister Survives No-Confidence Vote
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-06-16T14:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/romanian-bonds-jump-most-in-month-stocks-rally-as-premier-survives-vote.html

          
          
             Romanian bonds rallied the most in
three weeks and the main stock index climbed to its highest in a
month after Prime Minister  Emil Boc ’s government survived a no-
confidence vote, clearing the way for economic austerity.  
 The advance in the benchmark euro-denominated bond maturing
in 2015 pushed the yield down 21 basis points to 6.16 percent,
the biggest drop since May 26, at 4:30 p.m. in Bucharest. The
 BET  equity gauge jumped 2.7 percent to 5,099.99, its highest
closing level since May 19 and the biggest gain among 93
national indexes. The cost of protecting against a Romanian
default fell.  
 Legislators voted against an opposition no-confidence motion
aimed at blocking spending cuts yesterday after the stock market
closed. Boc has proposed reducing public wages by 25 percent and
pensions and jobless benefits by 15 percent to help meet terms
of an International Monetary Fund bailout loan.  
 “They survived the vote, which is very good from a
political stability point of view,”  Simon Quijano-Evans , head
of emerging-market research at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux in
Vienna, wrote in a report to clients today. “On the equities
front, we will continue to see upside moves, but the consumer
story is going to be hit even more by the measures.”  
 Default Risk  
 The European Union’s second-poorest member is relying on a
20 billion-euro ($24 billion) IMF and EU loan to revive its
economy from recession. Romania stands to receive 2.5 billion
euros from the IMF and 2.3 billion euros from the EU if it meets
the deficit target of 6.8 percent of gross domestic product
agreed with the IMF, Boc said on June 7.  
 The opposition and trade unions say the cuts will spark a
social crisis. Public sector employees have staged daily
protests in front of the parliament and city halls across the
country to urge lawmakers to topple Boc’s government. Opposition
leader Victor Ponta said yesterday after the vote his party will
challenge the planned measures at the Constitutional Court.  
 “The ruling coalition remains very fragile” after some of
its legislators “voted against the government,” said  Elisabeth Andreew , chief currency analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen
in a report today. “Hence, the leu will remain vulnerable.”  
 Credit-default swaps, contracts that protect investors from
a default and which drop in price as risk perception improves,
slid 2.5 basis points to 346.5 basis points earlier today,
according to CMA DataVision data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        