-- Romania Opposition Appeals Government Spending Cuts After Confidence Vote
-- Irina Savu
-- 2010-06-16T15:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/romania-opposition-appeals-government-spending-cuts-after-confidence-vote.html

          
          
             Romania’s opposition appealed the
government’s austerity plan to the Constitutional Court, saying
they are illegal and potentially delaying implementation, after
Parliament backed Prime Minister  Emil Boc  in a confidence vote.  
 The largest opposition party, the  Social Democrats , said
the wage and pension cuts are “a new income tax” for state
workers and breach the constitution, according to an e-mailed
statement from the party. The court will discuss the challenges
on June 24, news service Mediafax said today.  
 Boc survived a no-confidence motion by eight votes
yesterday, seeking to keep International Monetary Fund and
European Union bailout funds flowing and clearing the way for
his austerity program. Boc has proposed reducing public wages by
25 percent and pensions and jobless benefits by 15 percent.  
 “Clearing the Constitutional Court is the main hurdle on
the way to implementation but chances for the IMF disbursement
to be released in July have increased after yesterday’s vote,”
ING Bank Romania economist  Vlad Muscalu  wrote in a note today.
“We believe this should prove less of an issue.”  
 The EU’s second-poorest member is relying on a 20 billion-
euro ($24.6 billion) loan to resurrect its economy. Romania
stands to receive 2.5 billion euros from the IMF and 2.3 billion
euros from the European Commission if it meets a deficit target
of 6.8 percent of gross domestic product agreed with the IMF as
a condition of its loans, Boc said on June 7.  
 If the court throws out the spending cuts, the government
will be forced to raise taxes, killing off a recovery, RBC
analysts including  Nick Chamie  and  Nigel Rendell  said in an e-
mailed note. The austerity measures also risk sparking more
social unrest, they said.  
 “A protracted period of fiscal uncertainty with potential
political risks will continue to drive” the euro-leu exchange
rate “higher,” the analysts said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        