-- Royal Bank of Scotland's Pakistan Unit Bought by Faysal for $50.5 Million
-- Farhan Sharif
-- 2010-06-16T07:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/royal-bank-of-scotland-s-pakistan-unit-bought-by-faysal-for-50-5-million.html

          
          
             Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, is selling its Pakistan
unit for 41 million euros ($50.5 million,) as part of its
strategy to offload overseas divisions.  
 The transaction gives the acquirer,  Faysal Bank Ltd. , a
99.37 percent stake in  RBS Pakistan Ltd. , according to a
statement today. The transaction values  RBS Pakistan  at 2.5
rupees a share, it said. That’s a 77 percent discount to
yesterday’s closing price, according to Bloomberg data.  
 It’s the second sale of an RBS international unit this week
after the Edinburgh-based lender agreed to sell its Argentine
unit to Banco Comafi SA for an undisclosed sum on June 14. RBS
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  is selling assets after
his predecessor,  Fred Goodwin , left the bank with a presence in
more than 54 countries following more than $100 billion of
acquisitions.  
 It’s now withdrawing from 36 countries after posting the
biggest loss in British corporate history in 2008.  
 “It’s a cheap deal and a very good opportunity for Faysal
Bank,” said  Khurrum Schehzad , head of research at Invest
Capital & Securities Ltd. in Karachi.  
 This was RBS’s second attempt to sell a stake in its local
unit after  MCB Bank Ltd. , Pakistan’s biggest lender by market
value, canceled a proposed takeover following a dispute over
depositing shares as security. MCB had agreed in August to
acquire 99.4 percent of RBS Pakistan for about $87 million.  
 Branch Network  
 The purchase would add 79 branches to Faysal’s network of
133 outlets, according to First Capital Equities Ltd. in
Karachi. The transaction is expected to be completed in the
third quarter of this year, Faysal Bank said in the statement to
the stock exchange today.  
 “It’s a perfect fit considering we were trying to increase
our footprint,” said  Naved A. Khan , chief executive officer of
Faysal Bank.  
 Shares of  RBS Pakistan  rose 9.3 percent to 11.73 rupees at
9:42 a.m. in Karachi, on course for its steepest increase in
almost 15 months.  
 Faysal , majority owned by Ithmaar Bank BSC of Bahrain,
rose 7 percent to 15.36 rupees and is headed for its sharpest
climb in more than three months.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 Kkhan14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        