-- Rubber Climbs to 2-Week High as U.S. Output Data Boosts Demand Outlook
-- Aya Takada
-- 2010-06-16T07:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/rubber-hits-2-week-high-on-expectation-u-s-output-growth-may-boost-demand.html

          
          
             Rubber climbed to a two-week high
after growth in New York manufacturing boosted expectations that
demand will increase for the commodity used to make tires.  
 Futures in Tokyo advanced for a fifth day and reached the
highest level since June 1. The price has gained 3.5 percent
this year amid speculation that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
may not stall global economic recovery.  
 Equities and  commodities  rallied after reports showed New
York-area manufacturing expanded for an 11th month.  The MSCI
Asia Pacific Index  gained for a fifth day after having fallen 11
percent from a 52-week high on April 15 on concern that mounting
government deficits will deter some European nations from
shoring up their economies through spending.  
 “Investor attention has shifted to the strength of the U.S.
and Chinese economies from the European debt problems,”
 Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at Tokyo-based broker Fujitomi Co.,
said today by phone. “Rubber chased a rally in equities and
energy markets.”  
 November-delivery rubber gained as much as 3.1 percent to
286.7 yen a kilogram ($3,125 a metric ton) before settling at
285.7 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  
 All 57 stocks in  the S&P 500 Industrials Index  gained after
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index
increased to 19.6, in line with the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Prices of goods imported
fell 0.6 percent in May, led by the biggest drop in petroleum
costs since December 2008, Labor Department figures showed.  
 U.S. Manufacturing  
 “U.S. manufacturing, supported by low interest rates and
the buoyant Chinese economy, are recovering steadily,” said
 Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial
Securities Inc.  
 Rubber futures dropped to a three-week low on June 9 on
expectations that supply from Thailand, the world’s largest
producer and exporter, will increase seasonally.  
 Cash-rubber prices in Thailand extended gains yesterday as
a slower-than-usual gain in supply wasn’t enough to meet
increasing demand, the Rubber Institute of Thailand said on its
website.  
 The free-on-board price of RSS-3 grade for July delivery
gained 0.6 percent to 115.10 baht ($3.55) a kilogram yesterday,
according to the institute.  
 The Shanghai rubber market is closed for a holiday and
reopens on June 17.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        