-- Russian GDP May Grow 4.5% This Year in `Bumpy' Recovery, World Bank Says
-- Paul Abelsky
-- 2010-06-16T09:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/russian-gdp-may-grow-4-5-this-year-in-bumpy-recovery-world-bank-says.html

          
          
             Russia’s economic recovery this year
will be slower than previously forecast before growth
accelerates in 2011, according to the  World Bank .  
 “The recovery is continuing but we now categorize it as a
bumpy recovery,”  Zeljko Bogetic , the bank’s lead economist for
Russia, said in an interview in Moscow yesterday. “The new
first-quarter data, which were actually quite disappointing
compared to our expectations, are the main reason why we are
scaling down” the forecast for this year.  
 Gross domestic product may expand 4.5 percent in 2010, the
Washington-based lender said in a report published today,
revising down a March forecast for an expansion of between 5
percent and 5.5 percent. Output may grow 4.8 percent next year,
compared with an earlier forecast of 3.5 percent.  
 The economy of the world’s biggest energy exporter expanded
an annual 2.9 percent last quarter, the statistics office said
on June 11, after the Economy Ministry earlier estimated that
GDP jumped 4.5 percent from a year earlier. GDP may grow 4
percent this year and 3.4 percent in 2011, the government says.  
 That may not be enough to bring growth into line with rates
in Russia’s BRIC peers.  Brazil’s economy  expanded an annual 9
percent last quarter and  China’s  GDP grew an annual 11.9 percent
in the same period.  
 More ‘Sensitive’  
 Russia lags other BRIC countries because it’s more
“sensitive” to swings in oil prices and the shock of capital
outflows, Bogetic said. The pace of Russia’s growth “won’t
diverge as much” from its BRIC peers as prices for commodities
stabilize at a higher level, he said.  
 The World Bank predicts oil prices will average $78.10 a
barrel this year and $74.60 in 2011.  
 Last year’s 83 percent increase in Urals crude, Russia’s
chief export blend, has helped buoy the country’s recovery from
a commodities slump the previous year that precipitated the
worst recession on record. The economy shrank 7.9 percent in
2009, its worst performance since communism collapsed.  
 Russia is trying to wean itself off its commodity reliance
to limit swings in growth and ruble volatility. Its dependence
on energy, which accounts for about a quarter of economic
output, is “primitive” and “humiliating,” President  Dmitry Medvedev  said last year.  
 The weak pace of recovery in household consumption, high
unemployment and depressed investment demand has constrained
economic expansion in the first quarter, Bogetic said.  
 Gains in consumer spending will help rekindle growth toward
the end of the year, he said.  
 Hampered  
 Still, a full recovery is being hampered by a lack of
credit flows as banks curb lending in an effort to protect asset
quality on their balance sheets. Bank lending is still at a
“low” level, according to central bank Chairman  Sergei Ignatiev , who has predicted loan growth of 15 percent this year.  
 Bank Rossii cut rates 14 times in as many months, paring
the  refinancing rate  by a quarter point in May to 7.75 percent,
the lowest on record. The  inflation rate  remained at the lowest
level in 12 years in May, allowing the central bank to keep
interest rates at a record low as the economy recovers from its
worst contraction since 1991.  
 The World Bank reiterated its forecast for Russian
inflation to reach between 7 percent and 8 percent this year.
The country’s  unemployment   rate  will remain between 8 percent
and 9 percent by the end of 2010, the lender estimates.  
 The jobless rate in April fell to 8.2 percent from 8.6
percent a month earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Ryan Chilcote reports from Moscow on the outlook for Russia's economic recovery.
     Gross domestic product may expand 4.5 percent in 2010, the World Bank said in a report published today, revising down a March forecast for an expansion of between 5 percent and 5.5 percent. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
