-- Russia Seeks $11.3 Billion in Oil Export Taxes to Help Trim Budget Deficit
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2010-06-16T16:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/russia-seeks-11-3-billion-in-oil-export-taxes-to-help-trim-budget-deficit.html

          
          
             Russia’s budget may gain 353.2
billion rubles ($11.3 billion) by the end of 2012 by imposing an
export tax on oil from now-exempt eastern Siberian fields,
Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  said.  
 “Given the need to balance the federal budget in the mid-
term, and that a number of oil fields will break even in this
period, we propose a new type of tax on east Siberian exports,”
Sechin, who oversees the energy industry and is chairman of
Russia’s largest oil producer,  OAO Rosneft , said today at a
government meeting in Moscow.  
 The government is considering proposals to impose the oil
export duty at a discounted rate from July 1, while seeking to
narrow a budget gap to 5.4 percent of gross domestic product
this year. Oil producers, including Rosneft, say the development
of new deposits depends on tax breaks.  
 The Finance Ministry, the Energy Ministry and the Federal
Customs Service have agreed on applying a discounted rate
starting when prices crude are $50 a barrel, a higher cutoff
level than for traditional fields, Sechin said.  
 The discounted tax rate in July may be $69.90 a ton ($9.54
a barrel) for the fields, among them Rosneft’s Vankor field,
according to the Finance Ministry. That compares with a standard
rate of $248.80 a ton for other fields, based on an oil  price  of
$71.28 a barrel.  
 Companies may have to pay the full export duty once the
internal rate of return for a project reaches 15 percent, Sechin
said. The tax breaks are designed to encourage the development
of new deposits, he said.  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  called for more discussion of
the plan. The government didn’t reach a decision today, Natural
Resources Minister  Yuri Trutnev  said after the meeting.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        