-- Saab Plans Marketing Blitz for 9-5 Sedan, Reduction in Dealers
-- Ola Kinnander
-- 2010-06-16T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/saab-plans-post-gm-marketing-blitz-for-9-5-sedan-reduction-in-dealerships.html

          
          
             Saab Automobile AB, sold by  General
Motors Co . to  Spyker Cars NV  in February, will return to
marketing this weekend with a blitz for the 9-5 model and
may eliminate one-tenth of its dealers to reduce costs.  
 “There’s a huge wave of media and communication” that
will start in Sweden when the 9-5 goes on sale June 19,  Adrian Hallmark , executive director of sales, said in a phone
interview. Saab will spend more than $150 million on marketing
in the second half of 2010 after spending “nothing” on
promotions since the sale by GM, he said.  
 The new 9-5 model is important to Saab’s aim to become
profitable by 2012. The Swedish carmaker will release the 9-5
in Belgium next week, the Netherlands the following week, and
then other markets. U.S. dealers will start selling the car in
early August, Hallmark said from the company’s North American
headquarters outside Detroit.  
 The spending on promotion comes as Saab plans to reduce
the number of dealers by 50 to 100, from about 1,000, by the
end of 2011, Hallmark said. The move will reduce expenses such
as manager visits to dealers, shipping, training and support,
he said.  
 “If we have 10 percent less dealers and the same volume,
those dealers make more money and we have less cost,” the
sales chief said.  
 Since Saab was saved four months ago, the Trollhaettan-
based carmaker has focused on restarting production and severing
most ties with GM. “We took the decision to conserve the
marketing resources and wait until we got close to the 9-5
launch, and then go crazy,” Hallmark said.  
 Apple Applications  
 The marketing will feature “all media platforms” and
include applications for  Apple Inc .’s iPhone and iPad, Hallmark
said. Saab dealers will arrange “hundreds of test drives” for
potential customers in each market.  
 “It’s coming in waves, market by market, as the cars are
imminent and start to get launched,” said Hallmark, who joined
the Swedish company in March from  Volkswagen AG , where he was
executive director for Asia.  
 Some of the advertising will tell the story of the company,
which GM was close to shutting before selling it to Spyker, a
Dutch supercar maker. Saab sales, which peaked at 133,000 cars
in 2006, plummeted in 2009 to fewer than 40,000.  
 Spyker  Chief Executive Officer  Victor Muller  said June 1
that the company will almost double the number of dealers
selling its cars this year by offering them through Saab
outlets. Spyker’s speedsters include the C8 Aileron, which
sells for $214,990 in the U.S.  
 Share Performance  
 Spyker has declined 23 percent in Amsterdam trading since
Feb. 23, when it announced the Saab purchase, while the
 Bloomberg EMEA Auto Manufacturers Index  has advanced 10 percent.  
 Rather than eliminate dealers directly, Saab will work with
some of them on teaming up or buying out each other, Hallmark
said in the June 15 interview.  
 “We have a lot of high-density dealer coverage in some
metro areas,” Hallmark said. “For a brand like Saab, if you
want to sell 120,000 cars a year, we don’t need that kind of
volume-based, every-street-corner approach.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The new Saab 9-5 goes on sale in Sweden on on June 19 this year. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
