-- SABMiller Locks Up Home Market From Heineken as Soccer Beer Battle Rages
-- Nicky Smith
-- 2010-06-17T00:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/sabmiller-locks-up-home-market-from-heineken-as-soccer-beer-battle-rages.html

          
          
             As soccer’s elite battle it out in
South Africa over the next month, a longer-running contest is
playing out between two of the world’s biggest brewers.  
 SABMiller Plc,  which controls 87.7 percent of the world’s
ninth-largest beer market, is stepping up investment to counter
inroads into its dominant position by Brandhouse Ltd., whose
owners include  Heineken NV  and Diageo Plc. For the monthlong
World Cup, the maker of Castle lager has spent 170 million rand
($22.4 million) on advertising, promotions, renovating taverns
and sponsoring the South African national team.  
 “We’re not going to be shy about being competitive,”
 Norman Adami , the managing director of SABMiller’s local unit,
said in an interview. “We starve them of oxygen before they
even get there,” he said of Brandhouse.  
 SABMiller’s domination of South Africa’s beer market was
slipping before Heineken opened a brewery in Africa’s largest
economy this year. Its share of spending on non-sorghum brews
fell 2.1 percentage points in the year through March, while
Brandhouse’s share rose by 2.2 percentage points, according to
data from researcher Nielsen. Brandhouse is the South African
distributor of Heineken’s Amstel brand, which until 2007 was
brewed under license in the country by SABMiller.  
 SABMiller has said it expects to sell 30 million more beers,
or 100,000 hectoliters, as a result of the World Cup, which runs
until July 11. South Africa consumes about 27 million
hectoliters of beer in a year. Brandhouse declined to comment on
how the event is likely to affect its sales volumes.  
 Spending on Shebeens  
 SABMiller  shares  closed yesterday at 2,001 pence in London
and have gained 9.6 percent this year, more than triple the 3
percent rise in Diageo stock. Heineken shares have risen 9.3
percent this year.  
 SABMiller  has increased the number of representatives it
sends to taverns and shebeens, illegal bars in townships that
can be little more than a fridge and a serving hatch. Shebeens
are a legacy of white rule when blacks weren’t allowed to buy
clear or full-strength beer. The government has stepped up
efforts to regulate the bars after apartheid ended in 1994.  
 “I have an SAB rep, he always comes to check us, weekly,”
said Sonto Tukane, 50, the owner of Dipananas Tavern in
Johannesburg’s Alexandra township. Brandhouse “don’t come to
check us like SAB people. Brandhouse to me, we just buy, but we
don’t have that relationship with them.”  
 Brandhouse aims to boost its market share, Diageo spokesman
 James Crampton  said, declining to be more specific. Heineken
spokeswoman  Veronique Schyns  referred questions to Brandhouse.  
 “Brandhouse has the advantage that the Amstel brand has
entrenched brand equity in South Africa,” said  Julian Wentzel ,
an analyst at Macquarie First South Securities.  
 Black Townships  
 The company started a price campaign for Amstel last month,
encouraging customers to pay no more than 10 rand for the
premium lager, which excludes the 1 rand fee for the returnable
660 milliliter (22 ounce) bottle. That price makes Amstel only 1
rand more expensive than a “mainstream beer,” Brandhouse said.  
 “More and more consumers are coming into the market for
whom that 1 rand premium is acceptable,” said  Gavin Pike ,
marketing director of Brandhouse.  
 South Africa’s vast black townships are where as much as 80
percent of SABMiller’s beer is sold in the country, and half of
that is through shebeens. SABMiller’s South African unit
contributes 20 percent to  group revenue,  and accounts for 17
percent of volume. It is second to South America for SABMiller.  
 Dipananas is one of 1,950 taverns selected by SABMiller’s
South African unit for its 40 million-rand “Castle Kingdoms”
program, aimed at bolstering relationships with taverners,
improving sales and broadening the appeal of its beers, such as
the Castle Lager brand, from which the project name is derived.  
 “I buy big bulk from them,” said Tukane, who started
taking deliveries twice a week two years ago.  
 ‘Sharpened Their Game’  
 Alexandra township is home to hundreds of thousands of the
country’s poorest, and is one of 42 townships that SAB is
targeting. That includes more regular deliveries of stock and
increased visits from sales representatives.  
 It is not just the legal resellers SAB is supporting.
Shebeen owners are now being targeted directly for the first
time with advice on how to run their business and on how to
access SAB special offers through independent retail
distributors that have supply agreements with the brewer.  
 Under Adami, SABMiller cut costs by $80 million in South
Africa in the year ended March and that money has been
reinvested into the brewer’s brands.  
 “The presence of Heineken and Brandhouse has really
sharpened up their game,” Macquarie’s Wentzel said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Castle lager produced by SABMiller Plc., is handled by an employee. Source: SABMiller via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
