-- China's Stocks Drop After Shenyin Downgrades Steelmakers; Drugmakers Fall
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-17T07:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/saic-motor-shenhua-energy-shenzhen-bank-vanke-china-equity-preview.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  fell on Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co.’s downgrade of the steel industry and
concern health-care companies may be overvalued given their
earnings outlook.  
 Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.  and Hebei Iron & Steel Co. dropped
at least 1 percent after Shenyin & Wanguo said steelmakers’
profit margins may narrow.  Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Co.  led a
decline among health-care stocks, the second-best performer in
the CSI 300 in 2010. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.
and China Construction Bank Corp. added at least 0.4 percent
after Citic Securities Co. said the central bank may adopt a
more relaxed monetary policy to ease a shortage of cash at banks.  
 “A slowing of economic and corporate earnings growth in
the third quarter looks certain as a result of tightening
measures,” said  Zheng Tuo , president of Shanghai Good Hope
Equity Investment Management Co. “Some of the slowdown may have
already been priced into equities and there’s a big possibility
of a double-dip for the economy.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 9.70, or 0.4 percent, to
2,560.25 at the close. The  CSI 300 Index  lost 0.6 percent to
2,742.73. China’s markets were shut from June 14 to yesterday
for the holidays.  
 The Shanghai gauge has dropped 22 percent this year on
concern government measures to rein in housing prices and the
European crisis will damp economic growth.  
 China’s steelmaking industry was lowered to “neutral”
from “overweight” by Shenyin & Wanguo analyst  Zhao Xiange .
Major steelmakers will have “slim” profit margins in the third
quarter and the outlook for iron ore negotiations isn’t
optimistic, Zhao said in a report today.  
 Price Increases  
 Baoshan Steel, the listed unit of China’s second-biggest
steelmaker, dropped 1 percent to 6.07 yuan. Baosteel Group Corp.,
the second-biggest steelmaker, agreed to accept a 23 percent
increase in iron ore prices from Rio Tinto Group and BHP
Billiton Ltd., said research company UC361.com.  
 Hebei Iron & Steel Co., the listed unit of the biggest
steelmaker, fell 1.2 percent to 4.02 yuan.  Maanshan Iron & Steel
Co.  slid 1.2 percent to 3.42 yuan.  
 Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine paced declines for drugmakers,
sliding 8 percent to 45.09 yuan and trimming its gain to 3.1
percent this year.  Harbin Pharmaceutical Group Co.  tumbled 8.9
percent to 20.23 yuan, its biggest loss since September 2008.  
 A measure tracking health-care stocks slid 5.8 percent
today, the most among the 10 industry groups of the CSI 300. It
had advanced 9.3 percent in 2010 as of the end of last week.  
 Drugmakers Earnings
[bn:PRSN=1]   
 Liu Xiaoming [], an analyst at Guoyuan Securities Co., said
investors were selling drugmakers after recent rallies pushed
reported price earnings for the industry measure to 25 times,
compared with 18 for the CSI 300.  
 Per-share earnings at Chinese health-care companies are
expected to grow 23 percent this year, compared with 29 percent
for companies trading on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, according
to Macquarie Group Ltd.  
 A leading indicator for China jumped by the most in 14
months, adding to signs that the world’s third-biggest economy
is maintaining momentum as Europe’s debt crisis threatens to
undermine the global recovery. The measure gained 1.7 percent to
147.1 in April, compared with a revised 1.2 percent increase in
March, The Conference Board said on its  website  on June 15.  
 “There have been so many increases in the reserve
requirement ratio this year that even big banks are short of
cash,” said  Hu Hangyu , a Beijing-based fixed-income analyst at
Citic. “The central bank may make monetary policy a bit loose
to guide the repo rates lower to a reasonable level.”  
 Banks Gain  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China, the nation’s biggest
listed lender, added 1.4 percent to 4.23 yuan. Construction Bank,
the second-largest, rose 0.4 percent to 4.82 yuan.  
 The seven-day repurchase rate climbed past the one-year
deposit rate on May 27 and has remained there on all aside from
four days since. The last time this occurred, in February, it
lasted just two days. Fund shortages worsened after policy
makers raised banks’ reserve requirements three times this year
and drained cash from the financial system through bill sales.  
 Chinese stocks  may gain 15 percent in the “coming months”
as concerns ease over an oversupply of shares and the economy
withstands Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc’s China strategist  Steven Sun .  
 “Now is the time to look for 10 to 15 percent rebound in
the coming months” as banks cut the amount of capital they
planned to raise, Sun, Hong Kong-based equity strategist at HSBC,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “The Chinese economy
should continue to grow 9 percent in the second half. We’re not
forecasting a double-dip scenario, given the still robust
exports and imports numbers, and also resilient consumption.”  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 Citichamp Dartong Co.  (600067 CH) rose 3.8 percent to 9.01
yuan after the company said it canceled plans for a rights offer
due to changes in the Chinese real estate market.  
 Meidu Holdings Co.  (600175 CH), a Chinese property
developer and manager of hotels, plunged by the 10 percent daily
limit to 4.55 yuan after 376 million of its shares become
tradable today.  
 Shanxi Sanwei Group Co.  (000755 CH), a manufacturer of
chemical products, added 1.2 percent to 7.77 yuan after saying
it will invest 102 million yuan for a 51 percent stake in a
venture that will produce coking-related products.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . With assistance from  Patricia Lui , Shiyin Chen,
Chua Kong Ho and Diao Ying. Editors:  Allen Wan , Richard Frost   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        