-- San Diego May Cut Benefits With Bankruptcy: Joe Mysak (Correct)
-- Joe Mysak
-- 2010-06-21T22:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/san-diego-may-use-bankruptcy-in-benefits-rollback-commentary-by-joe-mysak.html

          
          
             (Corrects column published June 16 to delete reference to
indictment recommendations in second paragraph.)  
 The city of San Diego should
consider Chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy to help it reduce fringe
benefits, pension and health obligations.  
 That’s one of the suggestions made by the San Diego County
Grand Jury, which among other things reports on local
governments and special districts.  
 San Diego is the fifth major city in the U.S. this year,
and the second in California, where people are talking about
bankruptcy as a means to “restructure and reorganize their
assets and debts while providing relief from current and future
obligations,” in the words of the grand jury’s 22-page report,
published on June 8.  
 San Diego has unfunded liabilities of $2.2 billion in its
pension plan and $1.3 billion for health care, which the report
calls “unsustainable.”  
 More than two years of cutting budgets and the mounting
public pension crisis have made the unthinkable an option, maybe
even an attractive one.  
 “Municipalities are not required to raise taxes or cut
costs to the bone before filing for reorganization under Chapter
9,” the grand jury report says, quoting from a presentation at
an October 2009, San Diego County Taxpayers Association seminar.  
 Open Discussion  
 San Diego has been wrestling with pension and benefits
costs for years. In 2006, the city settled fraud allegations by
the Securities and Exchange Commission for failing to disclose
to investors that its pension system was underfunded.  
 The recommendation that the mayor and city council convene
a panel of municipal bankruptcy experts to talk about it is the
last of 16 suggestions made by the grand jury. That it was made
at all, in a wealthy city like San Diego, is disturbing.  
 “It will be difficult to make the case that the city is
insolvent,” said Natalie Cohen of National Municipal Research
Inc. in New York in an e-mail this week. “It seems the grand
jury report is looking to bust open the discussion about the
irrevocable nature of pension obligations -- which will continue
to eat up the city’s budget.”  
 As the report says in its introduction: “One of the
underlying causes of the current structural imbalance is the
underfunding of the city’s pension obligation by previous city
administrations.”  
 This is a familiar story, both in California and around the
country. As of June 30, 2009, the San Diego City Employees
Retirement System has only 66.5 percent of the money needed to
pay for future pension obligations, according to the report.  
 Punish the Public  
 The report contains an extensive discussion of San Diego’s
retirement system, and recommends that the city investigate
replacing it with some sort of alternative.  
 Among the report’s other recommendations are having someone
else run the libraries, selling portions of parks and charging
for trash collection: a fairly standard grab bag.  
 There’s also a little discussion on how to reduce
headcount.  
 Did you ever have a feeling that there’s a vindictive
element to some of the cuts governments do manage to make? That
is, when they are absolutely at the end of their tethers and are
forced to fire people, did you ever think that the government
somehow (and unbelievably, if you ask me) tries to punish the
public? It’s almost as though those in charge say, “Fine, we’ll
cut back, but you’ll never have clean streets again.”  
 In other words, if the city makes cuts as painful and
obvious as possible, we’ll all learn our lesson. I’m not sure
what the lesson is. I suspect it depends upon who you are. Don’t
lose your job? Offer to pay more taxes? Don’t ask if government
might run more efficiently ever again?  
 There’s a hint of this in the grand jury report.  
 Too Many Managers  
 The city, it says, acted “improvidently” in cutting the
public safety workforce, such as mounted patrolmen and the
canine unit. Meanwhile, “there are now anywhere from seven to
nine layers of costly management between the mayor and a blue-
collar worker in the field.”  
 The recommendations: “Eliminate redundant positions and
extraneous levels of management and supervision as employees
leave city service through attrition,” and “Restore the cuts
to public safety personnel as a priority.”  
 There’s a startling level of clarity in the grand jury
report on the city of San Diego’s financial crisis. I just hope
it hasn’t come too late.  
 (Joe Mysak is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        