-- Sanofi Plans to Further Cut Costs, Reduce Sales Force, Finance Chief Says
-- Albertina Torsoli
-- 2010-06-16T09:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/sanofi-plans-to-further-cut-costs-reduce-sales-force-finance-chief-says.html

          
          
             Sanofi-Aventis SA , France’s biggest
drugmaker, plans further expense reductions in areas such as
marketing to offset lower revenue that’s resulting from health-
care reforms in Europe.  
 “The way to cope with that is to continue to cut costs,”
Chief Financial Officer  Jerome Contamine  said at a  conference 
yesterday in Los Angeles organized by Goldman, Sachs & Co. “We
are restructuring. We are changing our marketing model. We are
merging sales forces, we are reducing sales forces, having a
multiproduct sales force. We will continue to do that.”  
 Faced with budget deficits amid a global economic crisis,
European countries such as Germany, France and Greece have cut
or plan to cut their health-care spending. Greece last month
ordered drugmakers, including Paris-based Sanofi-Aventis, to cut
prices by 3 percent to 27 percent to help rescue its economy.  
 Sanofi-Aventis Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher ,
who joined the company in 2008, shut or sold plants and canceled
the least promising research projects in a bid to trim 2 billion
euros ($2.46 billion) in costs and ensure 2013 earnings are at
least equal to 2008 profit. He’s also been looking to emerging
markets and consumer products for new income as competition from
generic drugs hurts sales.  
 The French drugmaker isn’t yet done with purchases in
emerging markets, Contamine said yesterday.  
 “We may do another group of bolt-on acquisitions” there,
he said. “Emerging markets is a volume market. What is
important is to have the right brand. We don’t see any squeeze
so far on the overall margin. We need to sell more volume” in
these areas, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        