-- Sao Paulo's Morumbi Stadium Cut From FIFA List of 2014 World Cup Venues
-- Paulo Winterstein
-- 2010-06-16T19:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/sao-paulo-s-morumbi-stadium-excluded-from-brazil-2014-world-cup-over-delay.html

          
          
             Sao Paulo’s Morumbi stadium has been
excluded from hosting any games during the 2014 World Cup after
Brazil’s largest city missed a deadline to present financial
guarantees for the venue’s required renovation.  
 Brazil’s soccer federation and FIFA said in a  statement 
that they are open to further discussions with the city. Morumbi
was the only stadium in Sao Paulo scheduled to host games from
the tournament.  
 At stake for the city is 3 billion reais ($1.68 billion) of
tourism spending during the competition from 500,000 tourists
who would each spend about 300 reais a day, according to
estimates by Sao Paulo Turismo SA, a government-controlled
tourism promotion company. The figure doesn’t include lodging
and transportation spending and the 20 percent increase in
visitors the city may see in the two years following the event.  
 The federation also said today that Sao Paulo recently made
another stadium proposal that won’t be considered because it
missed a deadline. A spokeswoman for the Sao Paulo commission
declined to comment today.  
 Games are also scheduled to take place in 11 other
Brazilian cities in 2014, including Rio de Janeiro, the
Amazonian port city of Manaus, and the capital Brasilia.  
 Jerome Valcke , secretary-general of FIFA, soccer’s
governing body, said May 5 that construction delays for projects
related to the 2014 tournament are “incredible” and Brazil is
“very late” in preparing for a tournament the country was
awarded in 2007.  
 Sao Paulo’s Role  
 Sao Paulo, with a population of 11 million, is Brazil’s
hub for the banking, automobile and agriculture industries. It’s
headquarters for Itau Unibanco Holdings SA, Latin America’s
largest lender by market value, and BM&F Bovespa SA, owner of
the region’s biggest stock exchange.  
 The surrounding state’s gross domestic product of 902.8
billion in 2007 was equal to 34 percent of Brazil’s economy.  
 Luiz Barretto , Brazil’s minister of tourism, said yesterday
that the exclusion of Morumbi stadium may not mean that Sao
Paulo won’t host any games.  
 “There will not be cuts in the number of cities,”
Barretto said in an interview from Johannesburg. “FIFA set
deadlines for the 12 stadia and all the deadlines are being kept
to. So everything is within the deadlines and everything is
going as it should.”  
 The renovation of Sao Paulo Futebol Clube’s Cicero de
Pompeu Toledo stadium, known as Morumbi, was approved May 14,
according to today’s statement. The club had one month to
provide FIFA with guarantees for financing of the construction.  
 “Losing that would certainly have an impact on the city’s
economy,” Amir Somoggi, a director at consulting firm Crowe
Horwath RCS in Sao Paulo, said before today’s announcement.
“You have full hotels, full restaurants, increased spending on
transportation, car rentals, security, the whole chain. You
could easily lose 250 million reais you’d see every time you
host a game.”  
 Brazil’s state-run development bank, BNDES, has said it
will finance stadium construction with loans of as large as 400
million reais per city, or 75 percent of the project, whichever
is lower. City and state governments must finance the rest or
find private investors. BNDES hasn’t signed any contracts so
far, said the bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paulo Winterstein  in Sao Paulo at 
 pwinterstein@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        