-- Sarkozy Lifts Retirement Age to 62; Raises Highest Income-Tax Rate to 41%
-- Helene Fouquet
-- 2010-06-16T12:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/sarkozy-lifts-retirement-age-to-62-raises-top-income-tax-rate-one-point.html

          
          
             French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
government said it will raise the retirement age and increase
taxes on capital, seeking to stem losses in the pension system
and safeguard the nation’s top credit rating.  
 The retirement age will rise to 62 by 2018 from 60, Labor
Minister  Eric Woerth  said today. The government will increase
taxes on stock options, dividends and capital gains, and will
raise the top income-tax rate a percentage point to 41 percent.
The rules will apply to private- and public-sector workers.  
 “There is no trick,” Woerth told reporters in Paris. “We
can’t promise to work less, raise pensions and erase deficits.”  
 Europe’s debt crisis has added urgency to Sarkozy’s
campaign to stem pension losses. The overhaul is aimed at
bringing the system into balance by 2018. The  state pension fund 
will lose 10.7 billion euros ($13.2 billion) this year, with the
shortfall reaching 50 billion euros in 2020 under current
policy, according to the Budget Ministry.  
 “The government is sending a reassuring message to
markets,”  Olivier Gasnier , an economist at Societe Generale SA
in Paris, wrote in a note. “The price to pay may, however, be a
tougher than expected reaction from the unions, especially in
the public sector.”  
 Unions have held a series of strikes to protest the plan,
which are also contested by the opposition Socialist Party.  
 “Moving the age of retirement is an injustice,”  Michel Sapin , a former finance minister from the Socialist Party, said
on LCI television. “How about people who started work at 16?
The jobs that start at a young age are often the most
difficult.”  
 Population Squeeze  
 By lifting the retirement age, France follows Germany,
Spain and Italy in addressing the squeeze of longer life
expectancies and declining birth rates.  
 Including the pension shortfall, the government’s budget
deficit has risen to 8 percent of  economic output , up from 3.3
percent in 2008 before the full effect of the financial crisis
hit. The government aims to trim the deficit to within the
European Union limit of 3 percent in 2013.  
 The pension proposal would cut the deficit by 0.5
percentage points of gross domestic product by 2013 and 1.9
points by 2020, a French official told reporters today.  
 France’s legal retirement age has been 60 since Socialist
President  Francois Mitterrand  cut it from 65 shortly after his
1981 election. Meanwhile, Germany in 2007 decided to raise its
retirement age gradually to 67 from 65.  
 Longer Lives  
 Woerth said life expectancy in France has risen three years
since 1980, and is now above 80 for both men and women. People
who began work before 18 will still be able to retire at 60, he
said.  
 As part of the overhaul, the number of years of work
required for a pension will rise to 41 years and 6 months by
2018 from 41 now. The reform will also iron out differences
between public and private-sector workers.  
 The age at which workers will qualify for the highest-
paying pensions will rise to 67 from 65.  
 Sarkozy’s Cabinet will discuss the measures on July 13 and
parliament will debate them in September.  
 Sarkozy has promised to avoid any across-the-board increase
in income taxes or social charges. Instead, the top income-tax
rate, which kicks in on taxable incomes over 69,783 euros, will
rise to 41 percent, which will raise 230 million euros.  
 A tax credit for dividends will be abolished, raising 645
million euros next year, and capital gains will now be taxed at
the same rate as income, bringing in 180 million euros. Taxes on
stock options and on supplemental pensions paid by companies
will also be increased.  
 Yield Premium  
 Sarkozy, who pledged a year ago to avoid “austerity”
measures, is also seeking to reassure markets that finances will
improve in coming years. The yield premium on French bonds more
than doubled in a week earlier this month to 55 basis points on
concern that the sovereign-debt crisis that began in Greece is
spreading to core euro countries like France. The difference in
yield between German and French 10-year bonds is now 44 basis
points, compared to an average of 29 points for 2010.  
 Budget Minister  Francois Baroin  said on May 30 it would be
“tough” for France to maintain its AAA debt rating. He later
amended his comments to say the top rating was safe.  
 “Although downside risks to France’s fiscal consolidation
plans still exist, Fitch senses a notable shift in the
government’s attitude toward the importance and urgency of
fiscal consolidation,” Maria Malas-Mroueh, associate director
in Fitch Ratings’ Sovereign Group, said in a May 28 note.  
 In 1995, a previous government dropped an attempt to
eliminate special retirement rules for some professions after
walkouts by transport workers crippled the country.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The retirement age will rise gradually to 62 by 2018  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         France's president Nicolas Sarkozy. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     France's president Nicolas Sarkozy. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
