-- Sarkozy Lifts Retirement Age to 62; Raises Highest Income-Tax Rate to 41%
-- Helene Fouquet
-- 2010-06-16T15:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/sarkozy-lifts-retirement-age-to-62-raises-highest-income-tax-rate-to-41-.html

          
          
             French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
raised the retirement age and increased taxes to stem losses in
the pension system, risking confrontation with labor unions as
he seeks to safeguard the nation’s top credit rating.  
 The retirement age will rise to 62 by 2018 from 60, Labor
Minister  Eric Woerth  said today. The government will increase
taxes on stock options, dividends and capital gains, and will
raise the top income-tax rate a percentage point to 41 percent.
The rules will apply to private- and public-sector workers.  
 “There is no trick,” Woerth told reporters in Paris. “We
can’t promise to work less, raise pensions and erase deficits.”  
 Europe’s debt crisis has added urgency to Sarkozy’s
campaign to stem pension losses. The overhaul is aimed at
bringing the system into balance by 2018. The  state pension fund 
will lose 10.7 billion euros ($13.2 billion) this year, with the
shortfall reaching 50 billion euros in 2020 under current
policy, according to the Budget Ministry.  
 “The government is sending a reassuring message to
markets,”  Olivier Gasnier , an economist at Societe Generale SA
in Paris, wrote in a note. “The price to pay may, however, be a
tougher than expected reaction from the unions, especially in
the public sector.”  
 All major labor unions called for nationwide demonstrations
and strikes June 24. “This is a brutal reform that represents
social regression as never before,”  Confederation Generale du
Travail , France’s largest union, said in a statement.  
 ‘Injustice’  
 “Moving the age of retirement is an injustice,”  Michel Sapin , a former Socialist finance minister, said on LCI
television. “How about people who started work at 16? The jobs
that start at a young age are often the most difficult.”  
 Medef, the employers’ federation, called the proposals “a
great step forward,” according to a statement  on its website .  
 Opposition to tighter pension rules sparked extended
strikes in 2003 and 2007. In 1995, President  Jacques Chirac 
dropped an attempt to eliminate retirement privileges for
transport workers after walkouts crippled the country.  
 France’s legal retirement age has been 60 since Socialist
President  Francois Mitterrand  cut it from 65 shortly after his
1981 election. Meanwhile, Germany in 2007 decided to raise its
retirement age gradually to 67 from 65. Spain and Italy have
also raised their retirement ages to address the squeeze of
longer life expectancies and declining birth rates.  
 Early Retirement  
 In France, the  average retirement age  for men was 58.5 in
2005, the latest year for which the data were available,
compared to a European Union average of 61.4, according to
Eurostat, the EU’s Luxembourg-based statistics agency. For
women, it was 59.1 in France compared to an EU average of 61.4.  
 Including the pension shortfall, the government’s budget
deficit has risen to 8 percent of  economic output , up from 3.3
percent in 2008 before the full effect of the financial crisis
hit. The government aims to trim the deficit to within the
European Union limit of 3 percent in 2013.  
 The pension proposal would cut the deficit by 0.5
percentage points of gross domestic product by 2013 and 1.9
points by 2020, a French official told reporters today.  
 Woerth said life expectancy in France has risen three years
since 1980, and is now above 80 for both men and women. People
who began work before 18 will still be able to retire at 60, he
said.  
 Working Lives  
 As part of the overhaul, the number of years of work
required for a pension will rise to 41 years and 6 months by
2018 from 41 now. The reform will also iron out differences
between public and private-sector workers.  
 The age at which workers will qualify for the highest-
paying pensions will rise to 67 from 65.  
 Sarkozy’s Cabinet will discuss the measures on July 13 and
parliament will debate them in September.  
 Sarkozy has promised to avoid any across-the-board increase
in income taxes or social charges. Instead, the top income-tax
rate, which kicks in on taxable incomes over 69,783 euros, will
rise to 41 percent, which will raise 230 million euros.  
 A tax credit for dividends will be abolished, raising 645
million euros next year, and capital gains will now be taxed at
the same rate as income, bringing in 180 million euros. Taxes on
stock options and on supplemental pensions paid by companies
will also be increased.  
 Sarkozy, who pledged a year ago to avoid “austerity”
measures, is also seeking to reassure markets that finances will
improve in coming years. The yield premium on French bonds more
than doubled in a week earlier this month to 55 basis points on
concern that the sovereign-debt crisis that began in Greece is
spreading to core euro countries like France. The difference in
yield between German and French 10-year bonds is now 44 basis
points, compared to an average of 29 points for 2010.  
 AAA Rating  
 Budget Minister  Francois Baroin  said on May 30 it would be
“tough” for France to maintain its AAA debt rating. He later
amended his comments to say the top rating was safe.  
 “Although downside risks to France’s fiscal consolidation
plans still exist, Fitch senses a notable shift in the
government’s attitude toward the importance and urgency of
fiscal consolidation,” Maria Malas-Mroueh, associate director
in Fitch Ratings’ Sovereign Group, said in a May 28 note.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        