-- Saudi Etihad Etisalat May Spend $670 Million This Year on Expansion Plans
-- Glen Carey
-- 2010-06-16T07:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/saudi-etihad-etisalat-may-spend-670-million-this-year-on-expansion-plans.html

          
          
             Etihad Etisalat Co. , Saudi Arabia’s
second-largest mobile-phone company, also known as Mobily, may
spend more than 2.5 billion riyals ($670 million) this year in
an effort to capture market share and expand.  
 “We put on the ground 2 to 3 billion riyals annually”
over the last five years, Chief Executive Officer Khalid al-Kaf
said in an interview today. Capital expenditure as a percentage
of “revenue will be the same as what we did the previous year.
In an absolute value, it will be a little bit higher.”  
 Mobily is competing with  Saudi Telecom Co.  and  Zain Saudi
Arabia  for mobile-phone and Internet customers through
advertising campaigns and pricing promotions in the Arab world’s
largest economy. The number of mobile phone subscribers in the
kingdom increased by 1.2 million to 46 million in the first
quarter of this year, the Communication and Information
Technology Commission said yesterday.  
 Mobily’s capital expenditure in the past five years was
about 12.6 billion riyals, according to the company.  
 The telecommunications provider, 27 percent owned by Abu
Dhabi-based  Emirates Telecom Corp. , isn’t looking for any new
financing this year or planning any acquisitions “at the
moment,” al-Kaf said. “Mobily is well structured as a telecoms
service provider.”  
 As part of its expansion, Mobily got a 1.5 billion-riyal
loan to buy Bayanat al-Oula for Network Services in 2008. In
October, it rescheduled the loan and also secured a 900 million-
riyal loan from Saudi British Bank to expand the unit’s wireless
network in the kingdom.  
 The company aims to be the biggest Saudi telecommunications
provider “in every single sector,” al-Kaf said. “That will
take a lot of effort and work.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        