-- Singapore Faces More Rain After Flood Hits Orchard Road Shopping District
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-06-17T05:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/singapore-rainstorms-flood-orchard-road-shopping-area-prompting-rescues.html

          
          
             Singapore faces more rain in coming
days after downpours yesterday caused the worst flooding of the
Orchard Road shopping district in 26 years.  
 The weather today will be “partly cloudy” and there may
be showers with thunder in the coming three days, the National
Environment Agency said on its website. Almost 100 millimeters
of rain fell before 11 a.m. yesterday, more than 60 percent of
the average monthly rainfall for June,  according  to the national
water agency.  
 About 70 people were  rescued  from buses and cars in the
worst flooding of the shopping strip since 1984, while no
injuries were reported. The basement of the Liat Towers building
along Orchard Road was inundated, damaging goods in stores
including Retailer RSH Ltd.’s Massimo Dutti outlet.  
 The Public Utilities Board “is investigating the cause of
the flooding at Orchard Road,” it said in a statement yesterday.
Flood waters in the Orchard Road area reached 300 millimeters
after an “intense storm,” and subsided within one hour, the
board said.  
 The agency said yesterday it was clearing up debris on the
roads and assisting property owners in pumping out water from
basements. Investigations on the cause of the flood can only be
carried out when the water level in the drains subsides, it said.  
 Between 1982 and 2008, Singapore had an average 15 days of
thunderstorms in the month of June. In the 140 years to 2008,
total rainfall in the month of June averaged 162.2 millimeters.  
 Coronation Road West, Fourth Avenue, Kings Road, Kheam Hock
Road and Veerasamy Road, all in central Singapore, were also
affected by the floods, the water agency said.  
 Transport Services  
 None of the train services run by  SMRT Corp. , Singapore’s
biggest subway operator, were disrupted, while some of its buses
were diverted to avoid the floods, according to a company
spokeswoman.  
 Some buses operated by  ComfortDelgro Corp. , Singapore’s
biggest public bus and taxi company, were stranded, while others
had to be diverted, a company spokeswoman said.  
 There were no customers inside the Massimo Dutti store
during the floods, RSH said in a statement to the Singapore
stock exchange yesterday. The Massimo Dutti store is
“adequately insured,” it said, without giving details on the
condition of goods in the shop.  
 Starbucks Corp., Hermes International SCA and Inditex SA,
the owner of the Zara fashion chain, are among companies that
have outlets in Liat Towers, the “flagship building” of
Singapore property developer  Bonvests Holdings Ltd.   
 “We are still in the midst of surveying the damages and we
are unable to give an estimate of the losses resulting from the
flood,” Madeleine Ho, marketing director of Hermes Singapore,
said today. “Our store will reopen once we have put everything
back in order. We cannot confirm when this will be as yet.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore   sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        