-- South Korea's Won Rises as U.S. Stocks, Euro Climb; Risk of Intervention
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-06-16T08:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/south-korea-s-won-rises-as-u-s-stocks-euro-climb-risk-of-intervention.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won rose to its
highest level in almost two weeks as signs the global recovery
will withstand Europe’s debt crisis spurred demand for emerging-
market assets and prompted exporters to repatriate earnings.  
 The  Kospi  index climbed as overseas investors increased
their  holdings  of Korean shares for a fourth day after the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said
yesterday the Bank of Korea should begin raising its interest
rate as the economy strengthens. Korea needs to consider the
risk of exiting from stimulus measures too late, Finance
Ministry official Yoon Jong Won said today.  
 “We’re seeing some positive signs from Europe, but we’re
still being cautious,” said  Jae Sung Park , a currency dealer at
Woori Investment & Securities. “We also got exporter bids to
repatriate overseas income at the level of 1,210 against the
dollar.”  
 The won strengthened 1.4 percent to close at 1,210.75 per
dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
earlier touched 1,207, the strongest level since June 4. The
Kospi rose 0.9 percent to 1,705.33. The yield on the benchmark
three-year bond was unchanged at 3.73 percent, the highest level
this month.  
 “The comments that came out from the government today
regarding an exit strategy are largely consistent with recent
messages,” said  Matthew Huang , a Singapore-based fixed-income
strategist at Barclays Plc. “Market reactions should be fairly
muted on the back of these comments.”  
 Recovery Signs  
 The Bank of Korea will raise interest rates by 50 basis
points to 2.5 percent by the end of this year, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  
 Central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo said last week that
policy makers will focus more on “price stability” after
keeping rates unchanged at a record-low 2 percent for a 16th
month. Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said yesterday the bank
should find a balance between sustaining economic growth and
curbing inflationary pressures.  
 Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities increased 0.9
percent in May, the most since January, after a 0.8 percent gain
in April, according to a Bloomberg News survey before a
Federal Reserve report today. The Fed Bank of New York said
yesterday its Empire State Index of manufacturing in the region
rose to 19.57 in June from 19.11 the previous month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        