-- Spain Faces Higher Borrowing Costs at Auction as Deficit Concerns Deepen
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-06-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/spain-faces-higher-borrowing-costs-at-auction-as-deficit-concerns-deepen.html

          
          
             Spain faces a jump in borrowing
costs at bond auctions today as growing investor concern the
country may need external help to ease a credit crunch forces
the government to pay more to finance its budget deficit.  
 Spain plans to sell as much as 3.5 billion euros ($4.3
billion) of 10- and 30-year bonds, the Treasury said. The yield
on the country’s benchmark 10-year bond rose to 4.939 percent,
the highest in almost eight years and 89 basis points more than
the 4.045 percent it paid at the last 10-year auction on May 20.  
 Spain is trying to convince investors it can cut the third-
largest  deficit  in the euro region, while propping up the
country’s savings banks and lifting the economy out of a two-
year slump. Spain, which faces 24.7 billion euros of maturing
debt in July, has seen the risk premium on its 10-year bonds
rise to a decade high on concern it may need to tap a European
Union financial lifeline.  
 “One has to assume that a big enough concession has been
made for this auction to be taken down,” said  Stuart Thomson ,
who helps manage the equivalent of $100 billion for Ignis Asset
Management in Glasgow. “There is considerable political risk
with Spain with the consolidation of the savings banks and the
forthcoming budget still to be passed. Investors are right to be
wary.”  
 The auction comes as EU leaders meet in Brussels to advance
their plan to establish a 750 billion-euro financial backstop to
support high-deficit nations such as Spain and defend the euro.
The single currency has fallen 14 percent this year as Greece’s
near-default fueled concern about rising debt in the region.  
 Credit Ratings  
 Fitch Ratings cut Spain to AA+ on May 28, citing concerns
about the economy’s ability to grow. Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services ranks Spain AA while Moody’s Investors Service has kept
its top Aaa rating on the nation’s credit.  
 The Spanish sale “is a litmus test for the market,” said
 Sean Maloney , a fixed-income strategist at Nomura International
Plc in London. “But some cheapening in the lead-up is probably
a healthy development for the digestion. Spanish auctions
throughout the year have generally exceeded expectations.”  
 Investor demand rose at Spain’s most recent auction, a
three-year bond sale this month, snapping a year-long decline.
The  bid-to-cover ratio  was 2.1, meaning investors bid for 2.1
times the amount of securities offered. That’s more than the
range of 1.38 to 1.85 in the four previous auctions of similar
maturity debt. A 10-year auction on May 20 attracted bids for
2.03 times the amount offered, compared with 1.55 times in
March.  
 Yield Premium  
 The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds rather than benchmark German bunds rose to a euro-era high
of 222 basis points yesterday after a report in  El Economista 
said that the EU and the International Monetary Fund were
preparing a 250 billion-euro credit line for Spain. The EU, the
IMF and the Spanish government denied the report.  
 Concern is also mounting that Spain will need funds to pump
liquidity into its banking system. Spanish lenders have been hit
by a surge in bad loans stemming from the collapse of its real-
estate market, and the Bank of Spain has had to seize two
savings banks. Short-term lending has dried up as confidence in
the banks wanes.  
 “The issue for Spain isn’t sovereign paper, it’s much more
related to financial-sector stability,” said  Harvinder Sian , a
senior bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London.  
 Markets ‘Closed’  
 Francisco Gonzalez, chairman of Spain’s second-largest
bank,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA , said on June 14 that
international capital markets are “closed” to most Spanish
companies and banks. That has left Spanish lenders more
dependent on financing from the European Central Bank. They
borrowed 85.6 billion euros from the ECB last month, twice the
amount they needed when credit markets seized up in 2008 after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., UniCredit SpA
said in a note to investors yesterday.  
 Deputy Finance Minister  Carlos Ocana  acknowledged that
Spanish borrowers need “the markets to open.” Still, he said
the Treasury had “no problem of any kind” paying its debt,
which is lower as a proportion of gross domestic product than in
Germany or France.  
 Spain’s debt amounted to 53 percent of GDP last year,
compared with a euro-region average of 79 percent. The July bond
redemption of 16.2 billion euros is the last until April 2011,
leaving 32 billion euros of maturing treasury bills spread out
over the rest of the year.  
 “The July redemption is not a threat in my view,” said
 Gianluca Salford , a fixed-income strategist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in London.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Fitch Ratings cut Spain to AA+ on May 28  
                       
                         
                           Denis Doyle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The European Union flag, center, flies between Spanish national flags at the Bank of Spain in Madrid. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The European Union flag, center, flies between Spanish national flags at the Bank of Spain in Madrid. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
