-- Spain's Central Bank Aims to Publish Results of Stress Tests
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-06-16T15:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/spain-aims-to-publish-results-of-lender-stress-tests-improve-information.html

          
          
             Spain’s central bank plans to
publish the results of the stress tests carried out at the
nation’s lenders in an effort to boost confidence in the
country’s financial system.  
 The Bank of Spain plans to make the findings public to
provide financial markets with full knowledge of the state of
the country’s banking system,  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez ,
the central bank’s governor, said in a speech today. He didn’t
say if he would release information on individual lenders.  
 “The bank intends to publish the results of these stress
tests to reveal the deterioration estimated, the consequent
capital requirements and the capital funding committed, to
provide the markets with a perfectly clear idea of the situation
of the Spanish banking system,” he said in the text of a speech
delivered in Madrid today.  
 Greece’s sovereign debt crisis has focused attention on
Spain’s public finances and the costs of buttressing the
country’s banks, including the foundation-based lenders known as
“cajas,” which have been hobbled by a surge in bad debts. The
Bank of Spain has seized two lenders since the start of the
financial crisis.  Francisco Gonzalez , chairman of Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA, said last week capital markets were
closed for most Spanish companies and banks.  
 The Bank of Spain has requested the information from
lenders and plans to publish the results in the short-term, a
spokesman said, without being more specific.  
 ‘Misinterpretation’ Risk  
 Ordonez’s decision to publish was today criticized by
banking lobby groups in the U.K. and Germany. Publishing bank
stress tests may lead to a “run on a perfectly sound bank,” the
British Bankers’ Association said in a statement today.
Germany’s BdB banking association, which represents more than
220 private firms, said releasing the results risks
“misinterpretation” on the market.  
 Deutsche Bank Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said
last week that releasing results would be “very, very
dangerous” if mechanisms to support European banks weren’t in
place beforehand. “In principle” he’s in favor of publishing
the stress tests for European banks, Ackermann said.  
 “Transparency is always good for markets,” said Francisco
Salvador, a strategist at Iberian Equities in Madrid. “It will
help to mark out differences between entities in Spain. Often
all the banks have been placed in the same boat.”  
 Ordonez said the restructuring of the savings bank industry
using the state rescue fund, known as FROB, is “well under
way” and merger agreements now need formalizing and
implementing.  
 “If, by month-end, any of these processes has failed, or
any institution has been left behind, the Bank will act, using
the mechanisms envisaged for this purpose in the FROB
legislation,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Tobin  at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Spain’s lenders have been hit by a surge in bad loans  
                       
                         
                           Denis Doyle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez governor of the Bank of Spain. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez governor of the Bank of Spain. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
