-- Spain Plan to Publish Bank Stress Tests Puts Pressure on Europe to Follow
-- Simon Clark
-- 2010-06-17T11:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/spain-plan-to-publish-bank-stress-tests-puts-pressure-on-europe-to-follow.html

          
          
             The Bank of Spain’s decision to
publish the results of stress tests on the nation’s lenders may
prompt European neighbors to follow suit as investors demand
more disclosure of the risks on banks’ books.  
 “Pressure is increasing and now European countries need to
consider whether to follow Spain,” said  Daniel Hupfer , who
helps manage about $40 billion at M.M. Warburg in Hamburg,
including shares of  Deutsche Bank AG , BNP Paribas SA and  Banco
Santander SA . “Whether they will is hard to predict. Europe
isn’t really seeing eye-to-eye right now.”  
 The Bank of Spain will make the findings public to give
investors more information on the state of the banks, said
 Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez , the central bank governor, in a
speech yesterday. Spain will publish the results on individual
banks, Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said in a television
interview today. Banking groups in Germany and the U.K. said
disclosing details on specific institutions carried risks.  
 Greece’s sovereign debt woes have focused attention on
Spain’s public finances and the costs of buttressing the
country’s banks, including the foundation-based lenders known as
“cajas” that have been hobbled by a surge in bad debts. The
Bank of Spain has seized two lenders since the start of the
financial crisis and is urging ailing cajas to complete merger
plans to tap a government rescue fund.  
 Markets ‘Asking for It’  
 Francisco Gonzalez , chairman of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA , Spain’s second-largest bank, added to concern
about the nation’s lenders this week when he said capital
markets were closed to most Spanish companies and banks. He
advocated “doing and publishing” stress tests.  
 “Europe needs this because the markets are asking for
it,” Gonzalez said on June 14 at a seminar in Santander, Spain.  
 Matias Rodriguez Inciarte , third vice-chairman at
Santander, Spain’s biggest bank, told reporters today that the
decision to publish results of the tests is a fundamental step
toward restoring confidence in the country’s banks.  
 The Bank of Spain has requested information from lenders
and plans to publish the results in the “short term,” a
spokesman said, without being more specific.  
 Spain sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of bonds today,
the maximum set for the auction, easing concern that it will
struggle to finance looming debt.  Santander  and  BBVA  rose more
than 2 percent in Madrid trading and the euro rallied.  
 U.S. Stress Tests  
 European Central Bank governing council member  Christian Noyer  told journalists in Paris today that he favors disclosure
of bank stress tests, by country and by bank.  
 The German government backs the publication of the results
of stress tests because transparency can be “helpful”  in
restoring banks’ trust in each other, Finance Ministry spokesman
Michael Offer said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 Spain’s decision comes more than a year after the U.S.
released the results of stress tests it carried out on 19
financial institutions to determine whether they needed more
capital following the subprime mortgage crisis. The U.S.
Treasury, whose tests measured how the biggest firms would
perform if the economy worsened, promised to provide capital to
banks that couldn’t raise it.  
 The plan was criticized by some analysts and economists who
said the tests weren’t rigorous enough and others who said it
could fuel investor concern. The effort forced banks including
Wells Fargo & Co. and  Morgan Stanley  to issue common equity
after the Federal Reserve released results on May 7, 2009, that
showed 10 of the 19 lenders needed new capital. It also kicked
off a rally that lifted the  Standard & Poor’s Financials Index 
36 percent from the start of May through the end of last year.  
 ‘PR and Psychology’  
 EU regulators are conducting confidential stress tests on
the region’s lenders after they racked up losses and writedowns
during the financial crisis, leading to taxpayer-funded
bailouts.  
 Bankers in Europe are making similar arguments as those who
opposed publicizing the findings of U.S. stress tests.  
 Publishing the results may lead to a “run on a perfectly
sound bank,” the British Bankers’ Association said in a
statement. Germany’s BdB banking association, which represents
more than 220 private firms, said making the findings public
risks “misinterpretation.”  
 Some analysts say the U.S. tests were designed to make sure
none of the banks looked too good, or too bad.  
 “What came out was reasonable, but it was more PR and
psychology and the Europeans don’t do that kind of thing,” said
 Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets.  
 27 Nations  
 Deutsche Bank Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said
last week in Vienna that releasing the findings would be “very,
very dangerous” unless mechanisms to support European banks
were in place beforehand. In principle, however, he said he
favors publishing the results for European banks.  
 The Bank of Spain intends “to reveal the deterioration
estimated, the consequent capital requirements and the capital
funding committed, to provide the markets with a perfectly clear
idea of the situation of the Spanish banking system,” Fernandez
Ordonez said in the text of the speech delivered in Madrid.  
 Finding common ground on an approach to carrying out and
publicizing stress tests in Europe is complicated by the fact
that there are 27 nations in the European Union, each with its
own government and central bank.  
 Not ‘Bad Idea’  
 Questions have also arisen over whether the tests would
take into account risks tied to sovereign debt of Greece,
Portugal and other European nations. Marking down the value of
Greek bonds, even for the purposes of a test, might imply that
regulators perceive a debt default as a possibility, which could
further unsettle investors, according to analysts.  
 Still, an increasing number of European policymakers are
speaking out in favor of more disclosure.  
 Nout Wellink , head of the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision and governor of the Dutch central bank, said last
week in Vienna that publishing the results of stress tests
“wouldn’t be a bad idea,” as long as governments are prepared
to guarantee lenders. Financial Stability Board chief  Mario Draghi , who also heads the Bank of Italy, said earlier this
month that releasing stress test findings would “clear the
air.”  
 British Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said in
a speech at the City of London’s Mansion House last night that
“concealing the truth” only delays the necessary adjustment.  
 “Spain’s plan to publish stress tests will likely
encourage the other national regulators to follow suit,” said
 Carlos Egea , an analyst at Morgan Stanley in London.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net 
 Simon Clark  in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Bank of Spain in Madrid. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Gary Shilling, president of A. Gary Shilling & Co., talks about Europe's sovereign debt crisis and the possible impact on the U.S.
     Shilling also discusses the outlook for the euro and China's economy. Shilling talks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
