-- Spain to Cut Revenue by 30% for Most Solar-Power Plants, Lobby Group Says
-- Ben Sills
-- 2010-06-16T16:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/spain-to-cut-revenue-by-30-for-most-solar-power-plants-lobby-group-says.html

          
          
             Spain’s government will cut the
revenue of most existing solar-power plants by 30 percent, a
move that may bankrupt hundreds of companies that produce
electricity using photovoltaic panels, a local trade group said.  
 The industry ministry, after negotiating with trade groups
for weeks, plans to reduce the number of hours a day during
which they may earn subsidized prices for clean energy, said
 Tomas Diaz , director of external relations at the Photovoltaic
Industry Association in Madrid.  
 “It’s incomprehensible that the government is doing
this,” Diaz said in a telephone interview after solar industry
representatives met today with Deputy Industry Minister  Pedro Marin . “We feel cheated.”  
 Solar executives, whose companies have invested more than
18 billion euros ($22 billion) in the last three years in Spain,
have pressed the government for weeks to maintain prices
guaranteed for 25 years under a 2007 law. The decision, which
hasn’t been approved by the cabinet, would mean bankruptcy for
most of Spain’s 600 photovoltaic operators, Diaz said.  
 A spokesman for the industry ministry who asked not to be
identified by name declined to comment. The ministry has yet to
make public its proposed reductions.  
 “The companies will challenge this in the courts,” Diaz
said.  
 New Plants Targeted  
 Spain also plans reductions for solar-energy facilities yet
to be built. Subsidized rates earned by new, ground-based
photovoltaic generators will be reduced by 45 percent, Diaz
said. Panels mounted on large roofs will see a 25 percent
reduction, while those on small roofs will be cut by 5 percent,
he said. Diaz did not comment on rates for solar-thermal plants,
a rival technology for producing power from the sun.  
 “This is ridiculous,” said Pedro Michelena, a partner at
Qualitas Equity Partners, which owns a third of Fotowatio
Renewable Futures alongside GE Capital. “I can’t believe that
this is the final proposal.”  
 “We have to hope that common sense wins out in the end,”
said Michelena. “I feel it’s still up in the air.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        