-- Sri Lanka Keeps Benchmark Rates Unchanged For Seventh Month to Spur Growth
-- Anusha Ondaatjie
-- 2010-06-16T04:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/sri-lanka-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rates-unchanged-for-seventh-month.html

          
          
             Sri Lanka’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rates unchanged for a seventh month, taking
advantage of low inflation to accelerate economic growth.  
 The Central Bank of Sri Lanka left the  reverse repurchase
rate  at 9.75 percent, the lowest level since August 2005, and
the  repurchase rate  at 7.5 percent, according to a statement on
the Colombo-based bank’s  website  today.  
 Inflation in Sri Lanka has slowed to less than half the
average rate of the five years through 2009 as farm supplies
increased after the government recovered land from the rebel
Tamil Tiger-controlled areas. Low prices are also giving
Governor  Nivard Cabraal  room to assess the impact of Europe’s
debt crisis on the country’s exports.  
 “Sri Lanka’s modest inflation gives the central bank space
to keep rates steady and gauge how the concerns over Europe pan
out,”  Bimanee Meepagala , an analyst at NDB Aviva Wealth
Management Ltd., the nation’s biggest non-state fund, said
before the announcement.  
 The yield on the five-year government bond fell 3 basis
points to 10.12 percent at 9:15 a.m. local time, according to
Commercial Bank of Ceylon Plc. The Sri Lankan rupee, which has
gained about 1.4 percent since the civil war ended in May 2009,
was at 113.50 per dollar compared with 113.55 yesterday.  
 ‘Subdued’ Inflation  
 “Inflationary pressures in the domestic economy remain
subdued, benefiting from dampened commodity prices in the
international market and increased domestic agricultural
output,” the central bank said in the statement.  
 Consumer prices  in the capital, Colombo, rose 5.3 percent
in May from a year earlier after climbing 5.8 percent in April.
Inflation averaged 12.6 percent in the five years through 2009.  
 Low borrowing costs will bolster local consumer demand as
 exports , which make up about a fifth of Sri Lanka’s $41 billion
economy, may be hurt by Europe’s debt problems, NDB’s Meepagala
said.  
 Sri Lanka follows Australia, South Korea, Indonesia, the
Philippines and Thailand in keeping rates unchanged this month.  
 Cabraal said June 10  gross domestic product  may grow 7
percent in 2010, the fastest pace since 2006 and up from an
April estimate of 6.5 percent.  
 Economic expansion will gather momentum by the “prevailing
supportive monetary conditions,” the bank said.  
 Growth will also get a boost from President  Mahinda Rajapaksa ’s plan to spend $1 billion annually on ports, roads
and power plants to reintegrate war-hit areas.  
 Sri Lanka’s growth prospects are attracting foreign
investments.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. , India’s largest mobile-phone
operator, unveiled plans this month to expand services in the
nation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anusha Ondaatjie  in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nivard Cabraal, governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. Inflation in Sri Lanka has slowed to less than half the average rate of the five years through 2009 as farm supplies increased after the government recovered land from the rebel Tamil Tiger-controlled areas. Low prices are also giving Cabraal room to assess the impact of Europe's debt woes on the country's exports. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
