-- Sunoco Plans to Separate Coke-Manufacturing Unit, Sees Refining Profit
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-06-16T20:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/sunoco-plans-to-separate-coke-manufacturing-unit-sees-refining-profit.html

          
          
             Sunoco Inc. , the largest oil refiner
on the U.S. East Coast, will separate its coke-manufacturing
operation to focus on the fuels business and expects its
refining segment to turn a profit. The company’s shares surged.  
 The SunCoke energy unit supplies steelmakers in the U.S.
and Brazil, sharing neither customers nor operations with
refineries, Philadelphia-based Sunoco said today in a statement.
The separation will happen in next year’s first half, with a
tax-free spinoff being considered, according to the statement.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Lynn Elsenhans  has cut jobs, sold
assets and shut a refinery to conserve cash after losses at the
refining business as the recession sapped fuel demand. The
refining segment will turn a profit this quarter on lower costs
and higher utilization of capacity, the company said today in
slides for an investor presentation.  
 “The company may be undervalued from a “‘sum-of-the-
parts’ perspective,” Elsenhans said in today’s statement. “A
separation should enable Sunoco Inc. to purse a more focused
strategic plan.”  
 Sunoco soared $2.03, or 6.3 percent, to $34.27 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
risen 31 percent this year. Sunoco hired Credit Suisse Group AG
as adviser in the separation.  
 Operation Undervalued  
 “Metallurgical coking has long been the company’s
strongest business segment,”  Jim Byrne , a Calgary-based analyst
for BMO Capital Markets who rates the shares “underperform,”
wrote today in a note to clients, calling the announcement
positive for shareholders. “The coke business is currently
undervalued.”  
 Net income from coke production was $180 million last year
on sales of $1.12 billion, according to company filings. Sales
rose 35 percent from a year earlier, and more growth is
possible, according to the slides.  
 Refining lost $316 million last year on sales of $12.3
billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        