-- Swaps Indicate Central Bank Rate Increase Conviction Rising: Canada Credit
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-06-16T20:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/swaps-indicate-central-bank-rate-increase-conviction-rising-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Investors are more convinced Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will continue raising interest rates
as concern eases that Europe’s debt crisis will crimp global
growth and undermine investor confidence, swap rates show.  
 Canada’s six-month and nine-month overnight index swap
rates, which mark what traders expect the central bank’s policy
rate will average over that period,  advanced  to the highest
levels since 2008 this week.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  has rebounded 9.6 percent from
its 2010 low on May 25 after concern about the impact of
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis pushed the index to its cheapest
level relative to earnings in more than a year.  
 “The fear that the meltdown that we’ve seen in equities in
particular was a harbinger of maybe another financial crisis or
a dip back into another global recession has subsided over the
last few days,” said  Meny Grauman , a senior economist at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in Toronto. Those “factors
really were weighing on investor minds in terms of their outlook
for the Bank of Canada.”  
 The central bank raised its policy interest rate by a
quarter-percentage point to 0.5 percent on June 1, becoming the
first Group of Seven central bank to increase borrowing costs
since July 2008, because of a “robust” economic expansion and
a resumption of job growth. The bank at the time also said
further moves would be “weighed carefully” against recoveries
in Canada and elsewhere amid Europe’s turmoil.  
 Carney Speech  
 In a speech today in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island,
Carney said the uneven global recovery and prospects of renewed
weakness in Europe mean future increases in the central bank’s
benchmark interest rate aren’t “pre-ordained.”  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, Canada Housing Trust sold
C$5.5 billion ($5.36 billion) of 3.15 percent bonds maturing in
June 2015. The notes were priced to yield 42.5 basis points over
a comparable Canadian government bond.  
 Financement Quebec sold an additional C$500 million of its
3.5 percent bond maturing in December 2016 at 85 basis points
above comparable Canadian government bonds. National Bank
Financial led the sale.  
 Standard & Poor’s assigned a BB+ rating, one-notch below
investment grade, to Montreal-based Yellow Media Inc.’s proposed
C$200 million sale of 6.25 percent convertible debt due in 2017.
Proceeds from the debt sale will used to refinance existing debt
and for general purposes, S&P said in a statement.  
 Swap Rates Rise  
 Canada’s six-month swap rate yesterday rose to 0.855
percent, from 0.835 percent the day before, its seventh
consecutive increase and the highest level since December 2008.
The rate, which was 0.84 percent at 4:00 p.m. in Toronto,
increased 9 basis points last week, the second biggest weekly
increase this year. The  nine-month  swap rate gained 11 basis
points last week.  
 Eric Lascelles  of Toronto-Dominion Bank estimates that swap
rates imply markets anticipate a Bank of Canada benchmark rate
of 1.7 percent in 12 months, about 15 basis points higher than a
week ago.  
 Investors are betting Canada’s central bank will raise
interest rates, even as the U.S. Federal Reserve holds off
tightening monetary policy.  
 The Fed will probably take “significant” time to shift
toward tighter monetary policy as long as the economy takes
years to reach full employment and inflation is low, the Fed’s
regional bank in San Francisco said June 14 in a paper.  
 Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News this month pushed
back their forecast of higher rates to 2011 from late 2010,
based on the median estimates.  
 “Domestically we see quite a strong recovery and signals
the Bank of Canada really does need to tighten up monetary
policy,” Grauman of CIBC said. “In the U.S., the domestic
signals are much less clear.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        