-- Swiss Franc Strengthens; Central Bank Says Deflationary Risks Disappeared
-- Klaus Wille
-- 2010-06-17T12:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/swiss-central-bank-may-keep-rate-on-hold-today-maintain-currency-policy.html

          
          
             The Swiss central bank softened its
stance on fighting franc gains and said it can’t keep interest
rates at a record low in the medium term without fuelling
inflation.  
 The Swiss National Bank, which has been buying foreign
currencies since March 2009 to counter the threat of deflation,
said today that those risks have “largely disappeared.” It
also held the three-month  Libor target rate  at 0.25 percent
after a monetary policy meeting in Geneva.  
 The franc strengthened against the euro after the
announcement, rising 1.1 percent to 1.3773 as of 2:39 p.m.
That’s close to the record reached earlier this month after the
Greek fiscal crisis threatened euro-area nations including Spain
and Portugal, boosting demand for the Swiss currency. The SNB
was forced to buy foreign currencies at an unprecedented pace to
counter the gains.  
 “If it weren’t for the euro-zone debt crisis, the SNB
would start the exit from its super-accommodative policy soon,”
said  Dirk Schumacher , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in Frankfurt, who sees the first rate increase in December. “We
still think that a hike in September would be too soon, but are
less certain after today’s meeting.”  
 Interest-Rate Outlook  
 The SNB raised its 2010 growth forecast to 2 percent from
about 1.5 percent in March. The central bank, which aims to keep
inflation below 2 percent, sees consumer-price growth averaging
2.2 percent in 2012 and accelerating to 3.1 percent in early
2013, based on the main rate remaining at 0.25 percent.  
 “The current expansionary monetary policy cannot be
maintained over the entire forecast horizon without
compromising” price stability, Hildebrand said. SNB Deputy
Chairman  Thomas Jordan  said Swiss banks “must be prepared for
interest rates to rise.”  
 Hildebrand also highlighted the risk of a property bubble,
saying a “considerable increase” in mortgages and house-price
inflation “demands the full attention of the SNB.”  
 “Should real-estate prices continue to rise at the current
pace, or even accelerate, this would, even in the event of a
steady economic recovery, already constitute the onset of a
bubble,” SNB said in its financial stability report today.  
 Downside Risks  
 Still, “tensions” on financial markets and the fiscal
crisis in the euro area “have increased the downside risks” to
the economy, Hildebrand said. “Should these downside risks
materialize and, via an appreciation of the Swiss franc, lead to
a renewed threat of deflation, the SNB would take all the
measures necessary to ensure price stability,” he said.  
 “The statement highlights the cross-winds the central bank
faces,” said  Luigi Speranza , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “On balance, we believe recent developments will slow
the normalization process compared to the SNB’s original
intentions.” He sees the first rate increase in March 2011.  
 The franc has strengthened more than 8 percent against the
euro over the past six months. While European leaders last month
pledged a rescue package worth 750 billion euros ($924 billion)
and governments from Italy to Greece agreed to intensify budget-
deficit cuts, the franc continued to gain and the SNB had to
step up its intervention. The central bank’s foreign-currency
holdings have more than doubled this year to 230 billion francs
($206 billion).  
 “In the past few months, foreign exchange purchases, in
particular, have been an effective instrument for averting
deflationary risks,” Hildebrand said. “The high level of
foreign-exchange reserves will inevitably increase currency
risk.”  
 Switzerland Benefiting  
 Still, the SNB has “sufficient equity capital’” to
withstand “even large losses,” the SNB chairman said. While
liquidity created through currency swaps is “temporary,”
foreign-exchange purchases add cash in a “permanent nature.”  
 So far, the economy is weathering franc gains. Swiss
 leading indicators , which signal the economy’s performance six
months in advance, rose to the highest in more than three years
in May and  manufacturing  expanded at a record pace.  
 “Although the weakening of the euro with respect to the
Swiss franc is dampening export activity, this activity is being
supported by growth in foreign demand,” Hildebrand said. “The
recovery of the global economy continues and the Swiss economy
is benefiting.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
 Simone Meier  in Geneva at  smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       SNB President Philipp Hildebrand  
                       
                         
                           Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Swiss central bank president Philipp Hildebrand speaks at a press conference in Zurich. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Swiss central bank president Philipp Hildebrand speaks at a press conference in Zurich. Photographer: Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
