-- Swiss Coach Says 1-0 Upset of Spain Springs From Pressure on Cup Favorite
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-06-16T22:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/swiss-coach-says-1-0-upset-of-spain-springs-from-pressure-on-cup-favorite.html

          
          
             Switzerland coach  Ottmar Hitzfeld 
said the public pressure on Spain as the World Cup favorite
allowed his team to spring a 1-0 upset.  
 Spain controlled the ball for almost two-thirds of last
night’s match and had three times as many shots as the victor.
The European champion took 12 corner kicks to 3 for the Swiss,
ranked 22 places below No. 2 Spain in FIFA’s world rankings.  
 “In the second half, they had to win as contender for the
title, so they had to open a bit,” Hitzfeld told reporters
after the game in Durban, South Africa. “We kept playing deep
passes. After we took the lead, we played even more confidently.
They somehow lost their concept.”  
 Switzerland’s first victory in 19 games against Spain put
it in a tie atop Group H with Chile, which beat Honduras 1-0
yesterday. Gelson Fernandes scored from close range after 52
minutes, ending Spain’s 12-match winning streak.  
 To make the second round, Hitzfeld said the Swiss may have
to change strategy in their next game against Chile, which had
the second-highest number of goals in South American qualifying.  
 “Chile will be just as difficult as Spain,” he said. “To
overcome Chile, we have to go beyond what we did today.”  
 Spain had odds of 4-1 at U.K. bookmaker William Hill to win
the tournament before the match, with the Swiss a 250-1 chance.  
 Saint-Etienne midfielder Fernandes pushed the ball over the
line after Spanish goalkeeper  Iker Casillas  and defender  Gerard Pique  tumbled in the six-yard box when trying to clear a long
pass. Spain is the only of the eight seeded teams to lose its
opening match and faces Honduras on June 21 and Chile on June 25.  
 The Swiss resisted wave after wave of Spanish attacks and
converted their only chance.  
 Swiss Praise  
 “We didn’t want to go up against the Spaniards pretending
to be better technically and to be better players than Spain,
because there are very few teams in the world who play as well
as Spain,” Switzerland assistant coach Michel Pont said in an
interview.  
 Even after the defeat, the Spanish maintained their status
as favorites to win the title, though bookmaker William Hill
lengthened their odds to 9-2. No team has won the World Cup
after losing its first game.  
 “This is of course not a good sign that we start off this
way,” Spain coach  Vicente del Bosque , whose team had won all
but one of its previous 28 games before yesterday, told
reporters. “We really must give everything. We can’t just leave
our heads hanging, we have to fight for it.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  at the Moses Mabhida stadium, Durban, at 
1929 or  fwild@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Switzerland's midfielder Gelson Fernandes, center left, looks at teammate Eren Derdiyok, right, as he is challenged by Spain's defender Gerard Pique, center right, behind goalkeeper Iker Casillas, left. Switzerland won 1-0. Karim Jaafar/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
