-- Switzerland Upsets World Cup Favorite Spain 1-0; Uruguay, Chile Win
-- James Cone
-- 2010-06-16T23:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/switzerland-upsets-world-cup-favorite-spain-1-0-in-group-match.html

          
          
             Switzerland upset favorite Spain 1-0
at soccer’s World Cup yesterday, its first win against the
European champion, while Chile beat Honduras 1-0. Uruguay tops
Group A after a 3-0 victory against host South Africa.  
 Gelson Fernandes scored from close range after 52 minutes
in Durban, South Africa, as Switzerland ended a 12-match winning
run by Spain, which was rated 4-1 at U.K. bookmaker William Hill
to win the tournament before the match. Switzerland, winless in
18 previous games against Spain, was a 250-1 chance.  
 “If you played this match again, I don’t think the same
thing would happen,” Spain coach Vicente del Bosque told
reporters. “We could have scored, but today was not our day.”  
 Switzerland hasn’t allowed a goal in five straight World
Cup games -- matching Italy’s record in 1990. The last World Cup
goal it gave up was in the round of 16 against Spain in 1994.
The Swiss were eliminated in the same round in 2006 without
conceding a goal.  
 The loss leaves Spain at the bottom of the group, tied with
Honduras with no points. No team has ever lost its opening match
and gone on to become champion.  
 Uruguay has four points from two games in Group A, with
South Africa, France and Mexico all on one point. France and
Mexico meet today in their second game.  
 Diego Forlan  scored twice for Uruguay in Pretoria,
including a penalty kick after South Africa goalkeeper Itumeleng
Khune was red carded for tripping Luis Suarez. Chile won on Jean
Beausejour’s goal, which gave his nation its first World Cup
victory in 48 years.  
 “That was absolutely unacceptable,” South Africa captain
 Aaron Mokoena  told SuperSport. “We still have one game to go.
We just got to show belief.”  
 Shock Win  
 Fernandes’s second international goal secured a shock win
for Switzerland, as the man of the match bundled the ball over
the goal-line after a rare attack by his team.  
 Spain had almost two-thirds of possession, and 24 shots to
the victor’s eight. Still, it was unable to break down a
resolute defense.  
 Center-back  Gerard Pique  had Spain’s best chance of the
first half in front of a crowd of 62,453, goalkeeper Diego
Benaglio stopping the effort with his legs.  
 Benaglio then closed down  David Villa  after 61 minutes to
protect his team’s lead. He was left helpless when Xabi Alonso
cracked the bar with a long-range effort 10 minutes later.  
 Spain continued to push and spent most of the remainder of
the match on the attack. There was still time for another
Switzerland chance, Eren Derdiyok hitting the post with 15
minutes remaining.  
 No. 2  
 Spain, ranked No. 2 by soccer’s governing body FIFA, had
won 27 of its previous 28 international matches, with its only
defeat in 48 coming against the U.S. in last year’s
Confederations Cup.  
 “We really must give everything,”  Del Bosque  said. “We
can’t just leave our heads hanging, we have to fight for it.”  
 William Hill maintained Spain as the favorite, although
lengthened its odds to 9-2. Ladbrokes now makes Brazil, which
could meet Spain in the last 16, the favorite.  
 Beausejour’s 34th-minute strike was little reward for
Chile’s consistent pressure and numerous chances in Nelspruit.
The nation’s last win came on June 16, 1962 when it beat
Yugoslavia to clinch third place as tournament host.  
 “We deserved the win, but we should have scored more
goals,” Chile coach  Marcelo Bielsa  told reporters.
“Defensively, we didn’t give a lot of chances away.”  
 Chile, even without injured striker Humberto Suazo, had too
much attacking power and variety for Honduras, which was making
its first appearance at the tournament since 1982.  
 Deflected Goal  
 In Pretoria, Forlan got Uruguay’s first goal from 30 yards
after 24 minutes, benefiting from a slight deflection off
Mokoena, with Khune stationary as the ball flew into the net.  
 South Africa rarely threatened with Uruguay, champion in
1930 and 1950, playing at a high tempo and controlling the game.  
 “We didn’t play,” Mokoena said. “The first 12, 20
minutes they started passing us and we lost our belief.”  
 The host’s first shot on target came after 70 minutes from
Teko Modise, but was comfortably held by goalkeeper Fernando
Muslera.  
 Forlan’s 80th minute penalty kick ended any hopes of a
revival by South Africa and the 10 men gave up another goal as
Alvaro Pereira headed in a cross in stoppage time.  
 South Africa has never been past the group stage. It is the
first time a World Cup host has failed to win either of its
opening two matches.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Switzerland beats World Cup favorite Spain 1-0. Photographer: Karim Jaafar/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
