-- Mystery Limo Adds Spice to Symrise Chief's Search for Next `Superfruit'
-- Richard Weiss
-- 2010-06-16T22:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/symrise-rejects-takeover-talk-scours-globe-for-next-superfruit-flavors.html

          
          
             Symrise AG  Chief Executive Officer
 Heinz-Juergen Bertram  got an unwelcome reminder that the German
flavors and fragrances maker is a top takeover target: a
$400,000 luxury limousine parked in his private bay last month.  
 “Any employee seeing the car in my parking space might
have thought that either the boss had lost it or somebody
extremely rich had come to buy the company,” the 51-year-old
said in an interview. Bertram had the car moved to a less
prominent spot to quell any suspicion that a buyer was visiting
its headquarters in the rural town of Holzminden, Germany.  
 Symrise is one of the top European stock picks for mergers
and acquisitions at UBS AG, as demand for its ingredients used
in yoghurts and air fresheners held up during the recession.
 Solvay SA , with 3.5 billion euros ($4 billion) from the sale of
a unit, is a possible buyer, UniCredit analyst  Christian Weiz 
said. Symrise stock has gained 72 percent in a year, outpacing
rivals and giving it a market value of 2.2 billion euros.  
 Bertram, who walks to work, said the maker of ingredients
for  Britney Spears  perfume is scouring the globe for new scents
and the next big fruit flavor rather than a buyer. Symrise
itself typically has five to 10 possible takeover candidates
under consideration at any time, Bertram said.  
 Symrise’s offering of so-called “superfruit,” nutrient-
rich fruit such as cranberries that are in high demand for their
health benefits, is growing at more than 10 percent, triple the
rate of the wider fragrance and flavors market, Bertram said.  
 Apple Farms  
 Created in the 2002 merger of a Bayer AG division and
Dragoco Gerberding GmbH, Symrise is No. 4 in the $17 billion
global market for flavors and fragrances and is seeking to close
the gap on bigger rivals,  International Flavors & Fragrances
Inc.  and  Firmenich International SA .  
 In the U.S., more than 80 percent of aromas are made from
natural raw materials, and that percentage is rising, Bertram
said in the June 4 interview. The  proportion  is lower in Europe,
yet also climbing, he said. Symrise extracts some natural scents
by washing process water and filtering out aromas at the source
from apple farms in Ukraine, tea plantations in Kenya, or
citrus-fruit plantations in Brazil.  
 Symrise is ramping up its first production facility in
Russia this year, and factories started operation in countries
like Egypt. It’s focusing on the highest-growth markets, with
emerging markets now generating 44 percent of  sales , the top
rate in its peer group, Bertram said.  
 “Chemicals as the basis for aromas doesn’t work,” said
the CEO. “We mostly work with natural ingredients in our flavor
business. Having access to aromas in industrial quantities is a
critical success factor for our business.”  
 Mystery Limo  
 Givaudan SA’s $2.3 billion acquisition of Quest in 2007,
which extended its lead in the market, and the need for big
budgets to fund research and development could serve as a
catalyst for deals, UBS analyst  Thomas Gilbert  and colleagues
said in a May 10 note. Consolidation will likely take place over
the next 12 to 15 months, and Symrise offers a “compelling
valuation case,” he said.  
 Symrise’s 12-month  advance  has outpaced that of
Switzerland’s Givaudan, which is up 53 percent.  
 International Flavors,  Merck KGaA  and  Royal DSM NA  are
among possible buyers, UBS analyst  Daniel Stillit  said. IFF may
be a potential suitor, though the likelihood of a takeover is
“low,” said  Carsten Kunold , an analyst at Merck Finck.  
 Rather than an executive from one of those companies,
Bertram said it was a relief to find out that the vehicle
actually belonged to a customer who had brought it in to test
car-interior scents.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        