-- U.K. Scraps FSA in Biggest Bank Overhaul Since 1997
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-17T11:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/u-k-scraps-fsa-in-biggest-bank-regulation-overhaul-since-1997.html

          
          
             Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said he will abolish the Financial Services Authority
and give most of its power to the Bank of England, undoing the
regulatory system set up by  Gordon Brown  in 1997.  
 In the most sweeping changes to financial regulation since
then, the watchdog will be wound down and replaced by three
bodies over the next two years, the chancellor said. A
Prudential Regulatory Authority will be created as a subsidiary
of the central bank. Osborne will also set up a Financial Policy
Committee at the bank and establish a consumer protection and
markets agency.  
 Osborne, whose Conservative Party took power after the May
6 election, is delivering on a promise made almost a year ago to
shake up the way the U.K.’s banks and markets are policed. He’s
blamed the system established by former Labour Prime Minister
Brown for failing to prevent a financial crisis that saddled
taxpayers with liabilities of as much as 1.4 trillion pounds
($2.1 trillion) and plunged the economy into the worst recession
since World War II.  
 “At the heart of the crisis was a rapid and unsustainable
increase in debt that our macroeconomic and regulatory system
utterly failed to identify let alone prevent,” Osborne told
bankers at his first Mansion House dinner in London’s financial
district last night.  
 Northern Rock  
 Brown’s government had to nationalize  Northern Rock Plc ,
the first U.K. casualty of the credit crunch, in February 2008.
The lender nearly collapsed in 2007 after it had to seek
emergency funding from the central bank and then suffered a run
on its deposits. The government also had to take controlling
stakes in  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc .  
 With the economy emerging from recession, Britain now faces
the deepest spending cuts since the 1970s to tackle the record
budget deficit, overshadowing prospects for recovery.  
 “Many in the City had felt that giving the Bank of England
responsibility for macro-prudential regulation would be a
positive step, but there will be disappointment that the
government has decided to launch such a radical overhaul of the
regulatory system at this particularly difficult time in the
economic cycle,” said  Nathan Willmott , a lawyer at Berwin
Leighton Paisner in London.  
 Tripartite System  
 Osborne’s plan scraps Brown’s tripartite system of
regulation -- in which the central bank, FSA and Treasury shared
responsibilities -- and places most of the onus on Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King . Legislation to replace the FSA
will be in place by 2012, Osborne said.  
 Osborne’s predecessor,  Alistair Darling , defended the
tripartite system and blamed the crisis partly on the “quality,
skills and judgment” of individual regulators that failed to
examine “the connections between institutions.”  
 “Can every country, every regulator, hand on heart, say
they have sorted out the problems of their individual banks, and
are regulators in different countries aware of any residual
problems,” Darling said in an interview on Bloomberg Television
today. “These problems don’t go away. It’s rather like having a
bad smell in the house. There’s no point in ignoring it. You
need to get the floorboards up.”  
 The FSA’s chief executive,  Hector Sants , 54, will stay on
at the authority while it is wound down and will take up new
roles on the bodies that replace it, becoming a deputy governor
of the central bank.  
 ‘Macro Issues’  
 Executive power over financial supervision will go to the
Financial Policy Committee at the central bank, which will
operate in a similar way to its rate-setting monetary policy
panel. The new committee “will have the tools and the
responsibility to look across the economy at the macro issues
that may threaten economic and financial stability and the tools
to take effective action in response,” Osborne said.  
 The committee will be chaired by King and will include
Sants among its members. The panel’s work will be scrutinized by
Parliament’s Treasury Committee, the chancellor said.  
 The Prudential Regulatory Authority “will carry out the
prudential regulation of financial firms, including banks,
investment banks, building societies and insurance companies,”
Osborne said. Sants will be its chief executive and King its
chairman.  Andrew Bailey,  the head of the central bank unit that
deals with failed banks, will be Sants’s deputy.  
 ‘Authority, Knowledge’  
 “Only independent central banks have the broad
macroeconomic understanding, the authority and the knowledge
required to make the kind of macro-prudential judgments that are
required now and in the future,” Osborne said. “They must also
be responsible for day-to-day micro-prudential regulation as
well.”  
 Angela Knight , the chief executive of the British Bankers’
Association, a lobby group, said she welcomed steps to make the
system “clearer and more effective” and pledged to support the
government during the transition.  
 The third pillar of Osborne’s regulatory overhaul will come
with the creation of a Consumer Protection and Markets
Authority. Osborne said the agency will regulate financial firms
“providing services to consumers” and maintain the “integrity
of the U.K.’s financial markets.”  
 King told the Mansion House dinner that the new framework
will assure the stability of the financial system.  
 ‘Credible Regime’  
 “A credible macro-prudential regime could help forestall
both excessive exuberance and unnecessary caution,” King said.
“By altering the pressure on the financial brakes according to
circumstances, regulation, far from being an inflexible foe,
would become a flexible friend.”  
 FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  said he welcomed Osborne’s plans.  
 “The overall future shape of financial regulation is now
much clearer and we are in a strong position to create a future
regulatory system which builds on the FSA’s achievements over
the last few years of major change,” Turner said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 “It is ironic that while in opposition the Tories
identified the tripartite system as the root of all regulatory
evil, yet here they are as government inventing multiple front-
line agencies and creating distracting confusion in the
process,” said  Ash Saluja , a lawyer at CMS Cameron McKenna in
London.  
 Osborne also said he will bring under one roof the handling
of “serious economic crime,” which is currently dealt with by
a number of organizations.  
 The chancellor also gave the names last night of the people
who will work alongside former Bank of England Chief Economist
 John Vickers  when he leads a panel on the future of banking.  
 Martin Wolf  of the Financial Times,  Bill Winters , the
former co-chief executive of JP Morgan’s investment bank,  Martin Taylor,  formerly of Barclays Plc, and  Clare Spottiswoode , the
former head of the gas regulator Ofgas, will work with Vickers
on the Independent Banking Commission, Osborne said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne speaks at Mansion House in London. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne speaks at Mansion House in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
