-- U.S. Corporate Credit Risk Index Declines as Industrial Production Climbs
-- John Detrixhe
-- 2010-06-16T21:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-index-declines-as-industrial-production-climbs.html

          
          
             An index of corporate credit risk
fell for a fifth straight day as manufacturing production
increased more than forecast, a sign industrial growth may help
the U.S. economy withstand Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index Series
14, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.5 basis
point to a mid-price of 117.3 basis points, according to Markit
Group Ltd. The index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises when it deteriorates, fell to the
lowest since June 3.  
 The Markit index declined while credit swaps linked to
Spain rose as investors bet the U.S. economic recovery may be
sustained by growing industrial production, said  Mikhail Foux , a
credit strategist at New York-based Citigroup Inc. Credit swaps
on Nalco Holding Co., which makes dispersant being used to treat
oil leaking into the Gulf of Mexico, declined.  
 “Over the last couple of weeks, we’ve become more
bullish,” Foux said in a telephone interview. “The bottom may
have been established.”  
 Credit swaps linked to Spain rose 11.2 basis points to
258.2 basis points, according to CMA DataVision prices. The
country’s central bank plans to publish the results of the
stress tests carried out at the nation’s lenders in an effort to
boost confidence in the financial system.  
 Contacts tied to Nalco fell 35.4 basis points to 467.8
basis points, CMA prices show.  
 BP Swaps  
 More than 1.2 billion gallons of dispersants have been
sprayed into the Gulf since April 20, according to the Deepwater
Horizon Unified Command linking companies and government
agencies responding to the oil leak. The spill began after a rig
operated by BP Plc exploded April 20 and sank.  
 Swaps on BP climbed 77 basis points to 583.2, CMA prices
show. The company’s executives met today with President  Barack Obama  at the White House and have tentatively agreed to place
about $20 billion over several years into a fund to pay
compensation to residents along the Gulf, a person familiar with
the talks said.  
 Output  at U.S. factories, mines and utilities increased 1.2
percent last month after a 0.7 percent gain in April, a Federal
Reserve report in Washington showed today. The median estimate
of a Bloomberg survey of 82 economists anticipated a 0.9 percent
rise.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        