-- U.S. Open Officials Bring Beach at Pebble Back Into Play for Championship
-- Michael Buteau
-- 2010-06-16T20:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/u-s-open-officials-bring-beach-at-pebble-back-into-play-for-championship.html

          
          
             Among the items U.S. Open
competitors might consider packing in their golf bags this week
at  Pebble Beach , a rope wouldn’t be a bad idea,  Ernie Els  said.  
 As he prepared for the second major championship of the
year at the oceanside California course, Els found himself
eyeing his golf ball as it came to rest on a beach down a cliff
off the right side of the course’s par-4 10th hole.  
 “I think I could have got down there,” Els said in a news
conference yesterday. “I don’t know if I would have come back
up, I think you might need a rope or something.”  
 The 10th hole at Pebble Beach is one of nine built along
the edge of the Pacific Ocean. For this year’s championship, the
 U.S. Golf Association  has shifted the fairways on five of those
holes closer to the edge of the cliffs, a decision that could
result in a large number of errant shots coming to rest on the
sandy shore. Adventurous players with cliff-climbing skills
could have an advantage over acrophobic golfers.  
 With unpredictable winds often wreaking havoc with the
flight of golf balls at the 91-year-old course, players said
they expect more shots to plummet off the cliffs -- some of
which rise as much as 100 feet above the ocean. While Els
remained unsure if he would be willing or able to scale the
slopes, other players said they were in favor of the changes.  
 “When you have a hazard I much prefer that the fairway to
be cut up against it,” said Ireland’s  Padraig Harrington , who
is seeking his first U.S. Open title. “I think it looks a lot
better.”  
 During a practice round yesterday, Harrington hit a tee
shot onto the beach that lines the left side of the 18th
fairway. Had it been a competitive round, he would have been
willing to scale the cliff, Harrington said.  
 Playable from Beach  
 “The guys went down there and said I could have played
it,” he said. “I was shocked at that. I never, ever thought a
ball could be played from down there. They said, yeah, I would
have had no problem getting it back to the fairway.”  
 For this year’s tournament, officials have brought the
fairways of the sixth, eighth, ninth, 10th and 18th holes closer
to the ocean, a decision that has transformed the course back to
its original design, said  Mike Davis , the USGA’s director of
rules and competition.  
 “In looking at old photos from the 1920s, ‘30s and ‘40s,
that’s the way it was,” Davis said today in an interview. “We
were trying to bring the hazards back into play. It creates more
of a risk-reward situation for the players.”  
 Crashing Waves  
 With the sound of waves along the beach, the risk is
obvious to players. The reward for a shot that hugs the
coastline is a shorter route to the green and the possibility of
a lower score.  
 It’s a risk New Orleans Saints quarterback  Drew Brees  was
willing to take on the course’s ninth hole during an exhibition
round last week. After hitting his tee shot to the right, the
reigning Super Bowl Most Valuable Player made his way down a
cliff and attempted to hit his second shot back up to the
fairway.  
 “He wasn’t too successful,” Davis said.  
 Brees, playing as part of an event with actor  Mark Wahlberg , retired hockey player  Wayne Gretzky  and amateur Peggy
Ference, finished with a score of 102.  
 When the tournament begins tomorrow, Els expects to see
more players following in Brees’s sandy footsteps, especially on
the  ninth and 10th holes, which have been lengthened by about
100 yards in total.  
 “If the wind is into us on those holes, you’re going to
see a lot of fun and games,” he said. “If you leak it, there’s
no stopping the ball, it’s going over the cliff. It could be
quite interesting this week.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Buteau  in
Pebble Beach, California, at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        