-- U.S. Financial Reform Efforts Lack `Cover' for Risk Managers, Rossi Says
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-06-16T14:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/u-s-bank-reform-efforts-lacking-as-risk-managers-overlooked-rossi-says.html

          
          
             Efforts to reform U.S. banking after
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression fall short
because they don’t empower risk managers, according to  Cliff Rossi , who held that job at three of the country’s largest
 mortgage  lenders that helped fuel the housing boom.  
 “What’s missing in all this is there is no air cover for
risk managers who actually have a backbone to stand up and say
they disagree” with lenders’ practices, Rossi, a teaching
fellow at the  University of Maryland  in College Park and
managing director of its business school’s Center on Financial
Policy and Corporate Governance, said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  
 Too much attention is being paid to the “exotic, exciting,
complex, lack-of-transparency type of  securities ” used to sell
risky  mortgages , rather than the decisions by banks to build
 portfolios  of similar  loans  or invest in the bonds, said Rossi,
52, a former senior risk officer at Countrywide Financial Corp.,
Washington Mutual Inc. and Citigroup Inc.  
 Many of those choices reflected business heads and senior
executives ignoring internal warnings on what might happen with
mortgage  products  with brief histories if home prices stopped
rising after record  gains , Rossi said. The job of risk managers
to hold people “back from the brink” was made impossible
because individuals leading the lenders focused on boosting
revenue and didn’t want to listen to talk about the
“probabilities” of credit quality worsening, he said.  
 ‘Business Prevention’  
 U.S. lawmakers are now resolving differences between two
versions of financial-overhaul legislation sparked by the crisis
and taxpayer bailouts of companies including Citigroup and
American International Group Inc. Regulators including the
Securities and Exchange Commission have already begun to adjust
rules including those for money-market funds, credit ratings and
mortgage disclosures.  
 Policy makers should also consider ideas such as
encouraging corporate-governance structures in which risk
officials report to independent members of banks’ boards and
requiring regulatory reviews of risk managers’ departures to
ensure they aren’t being forced out, Rossi said.  
 At one lender where he worked, the risk-management
department “was referred to as the ‘business-prevention unit,’
and looked at as a cost center,” he said.  
 Across the industry, warnings from risk managers often put
their employment in jeopardy, Rossi said. “While regulators’
job is not to be engaged directly in the business decisions of
these firms, I also believe they could have a role to play, in
that they could have veto power.”  
 Shoddy Underwriting  
 The quality and independence of risk-management divisions
should factor into the cost of insurance on customers’ accounts
because “an institution that takes subsidized government-
deposit insurance should be subject to what oversight is
necessary to ensure its safety and soundness,” he said.  
 At the least, the jobs of chief executive officers and
board chairmen should be separated because CEOs often are as
interested in their short-term profits, rather than long-term
safety, as any other employee, Rossi said.  
 Former Citigroup and Washington Mutual officials were among
individuals testifying to government panels this year who said
their companies knew their underwriting of mortgages was shoddy
as risky lending boomed. Last month, the Mortgage Bankers
Association’s Research Institute for Housing America released a
 study  by Rossi titled “Anatomy of Risk Management Practices in
the Mortgage Industry.”  
 No ‘Clue’  
 There’s “certainly nothing wrong” with the idea that risk
managers should report to board members, which would be a
strengthening of directors’ responsibilities similar to what was
done with company accounting in 2002’s Sarbanes-Oxley Act after
book-keeping scandals such as at WorldCom Inc., said  Christopher Whalen , a bank analyst at Torrance, California-based
Institutional Risk Analytics.  
 At the same time, expecting regulators, who generally
“don’t have much of a clue,” to police employment probably is
pointless, Whalen said. Chief financial officers and chief
operating officers already have enough power to halt reckless
risk-taking, he said.  
 “Other than having compensation tied to, say, medium-term
performance, I don’t know how else you get constituencies that
are already on the stage to do what they’re supposed to do,”
Whalen said  
 ‘Lack of Humility’  
 From October 2007 until last August, Rossi served as the
chief risk officer for consumer lending at New York-based
 Citigroup . In the eight months before that, he was the chief
credit officer at Seattle-based Washington Mutual, which went
through four individuals in the post in less than three years.
Regulators seized Wamu’s bank unit in 2008 and sold most of its
assets to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 From the start of 2004 until joining Wamu, Rossi was chief
risk officer at Calabasas, California-based Countrywide’s bank
unit. Countrywide, roiled by home-loan losses, sold itself to
Bank of America Corp. in 2008.  
 Countrywide, in contrast to the other two, didn’t suffer
from challenges in understanding its risks because of data and
technology issues created by mergers, Rossi said. Citigroup’s
risks were boosted in part because it lacked a large national
branch network, leading it to buy more loans made by others,
Rossi said in presenting his paper last month at a  conference 
held by the Washington-based Mortgage Bankers Association.  
 “A lack of humility” among top executives plagued all
three companies, he said in the interview yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        