-- U.S. Imposes Sanctions on Iran Bank, Revolutionary Guard Under UN Mandate
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-06-16T20:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/u-s-imposes-sanctions-on-iran-bank-revolutionary-guard-under-un-mandate.html

          
          
             The U.S. took action to block an
Iranian bank, the country’s Revolutionary Guard Corps and the
group’s business interests from using the international
financial system, implementing new  United Nations  sanctions.  
 “In the coming weeks we will continue to increase
financial pressure on Iran,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said at the White House in Washington.  
 The U.S. invoked UN  Security Council  Resolution 1929,
passed June 9 with the backing of China and Russia, to bar
transactions involving the Post Bank of Iran and the Guard
Corps’ Air Force and Missile Command. Treasury Undersecretary
 Stuart Levey  told reporters that Iran was using the domestic-
oriented Post Bank for international transactions after the U.S.
took action against other Iranian banks for moving money
beneficial to the country’s nuclear program.  
 The air force and missile units of the Revolutionary Guard
have ties to Iran’s ballistic-missile program, according to a
Treasury statement on the action.  
 Levey said the penalties would have the effect of exposing
Iranian deception in trying to evade sanctions and would
persuade companies worldwide to shun Iran.  
 Iranian Companies  
 Also cited in the Treasury action were: Rah Sahel and the
Sepanir Oil and Gas Engineering Co., described by Treasury as
subsidiaries of the Revolutionary Guard’s engineering arm; five
companies identified as fronts for the Islamic Republic of Iran
Shipping Lines; and two leaders of the Revolutionary Guard.  
 Treasury barred financial transactions with 22 insurance
and petrochemical companies owned or controlled by Iran’s
government, including 17 based outside the country.  
 The U.S. also identified 98 vessels linked to what Levey
described as Irisl efforts to evade UN sanctions. Individuals
named in the action include Defense Minister  Ahmad Vahidi ,
Revolutionary Guard Corps Commander  Mohammad Ali Jafari  and
 Mohammad Reza Naqdi , a Guards Corps leader.  
 The U.S. steps flowed from a provision of the UN resolution
that calls upon governments to freeze the assets and bar
financial transactions with Iranian entities when it is
determined that there are “reasonable grounds” to believe they
contribute to the nation’s nuclear program.  
 UN Measure  
 Resolution 1929, adopted after six months of negotiations
aimed at winning the support of veto-wielding Security Council
members China and Russia, is intended to prevent Iran from
developing a nuclear weapon and to compel the Middle Eastern
nation to enter international talks.  
 Iran, with the world’s second-biggest oil and natural gas
reserves, has said its nuclear program is intended for
generating electricity for its growing population.  
 The U.S. move came as European Union governments prepared
to widen their sanctions against Iran. EU penalties will hit
“key sectors of the gas and oil industry with prohibition of
new investment, technical assistance and transfers of
technologies, equipment and services,” according to a statement
prepared for tomorrow’s EU summit in Brussels that was obtained
by Bloomberg News.  
 Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  today threatened
“retaliation” against any country that acts to enforce the UN
sanctions, while the parliament in Tehran is considering a bill
to reduce  International Atomic Energy Agency  inspections of its
atomic facilities.  
 “Any country that would damage Iran’s interests because of
the sanctions will face Iran’s severe retaliation,” the Iranian
president said in an address televised live by the state
broadcaster from the city of Shahrekord.  
 Congressional Action  
 The U.S. Congress will soon produce Iran sanctions
legislation of unprecedented strength that could be the “last
chance” to avoid military confrontation with the regime, a U.S.
senator said today.  
 “There have never been sanctions this broad and this
strong,” said Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut
independent.  
 The sanctions package, still being completed, will focus on
Iran’s nuclear program and human rights violations. “Very
powerful sanctions” will target the Iranian financial industry
as well as suppliers of gasoline and other refined petroleum
products and related products to Iran, Lieberman said.  
 The House and Senate should be finished coordinating their
different versions of the bill by next week, Lieberman said at a
press conference.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Varner  in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        