-- U.S. Won't Lift Deepwater Drilling Ban, Lawyers Tell Judge
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-06-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/u-s-won-t-lift-six-month-ban-on-deepwater-drilling-lawyers-tell-judge.html

          
          
             The six-month moratorium on
deepwater drilling ordered in the wake of the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill is essential to ensure public safety and shouldn’t be
lifted, U.S. regulators said yesterday in a court filing.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other offshore service
and supply companies last week sued U.S. Interior Secretary
 Kenneth Salazar , the head of the  Minerals Management Service ,
and both federal agencies, asking a federal court in New Orleans
to lift an executive ban on oil and gas exploration in waters
more than 500 feet deep.  
 The moratorium was imposed May 27 after the April explosion
and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon off the Louisiana coast,
which triggered the largest oil spill in U.S. history. Hornbeck
and the other companies contend they will suffer irreparable
economic harm from the suspension in drilling. The U.S. said
further investigation is needed before the ban can be lifted.  
 “The Secretary’s decision was a valid exercise of his
discretion predicated on the need to ensure that no further
drilling accidents occur pending review and implementation of
safety protocols and procedures,” lawyers for the agencies said
yesterday. “The short-term economic harm asserted by the
plaintiffs fails to meet their burden of demonstrating
irreparable harm.”  
 Relief Wells  
 The moratorium applies to all floating rigs in the deepwater
Gulf of Mexico except two hired by BP Plc to drill relief wells
to try to cap the runaway well spewing from 35,000 to 60,000
barrels of oil daily.  
 The lawsuit was originally filed June 7 by Covington,
Louisiana-based Hornbeck. Since then more than it has been
joined by more than a dozen companies that build rigs, operate
supply-boat fleets, provide remotely-operated submarines, clean
tanks, load cargo and provide other support for the 33 rigs
drilling in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico when the ban was
imposed.  
 Many of the plaintiff companies are based near Port
Fourchon, Louisiana, and have subsidiary operations scattered
throughout the Louisiana coastal zone. Among these are Bollinger
Shipyards Inc., Bee Mar LLC and Chouest Shipyard Companies,
which along with Hornbeck collectively employ more than 13,000
workers and 7,000 vendors, according to court papers.  
 ‘Immediate Losses’  
 “The potential immediate losses include, but are not
limited to, the loss of 3,000 to 6,000 Louisiana jobs directly
and indirectly related to the deepwater drilling operations at
the 33 wells,” Hornbeck attorney  Carl Rosenblum  said in court
papers June 9. “Lost wages for direct and indirect jobs lost
could be over $165 million to $330 million per month for every
month the 33 platforms are idle.”  
 Rosenblum didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment
yesterday.  
 The plaintiffs showed no reason a judge should lift the ban
and the moratorium was necessary to “ensure that more lives are
not lost and that new blowouts and spills do not occur,” the
U.S. said. “A second deepwater blowout could overwhelm the
efforts to respond to the current disaster, and dramatically set
back recovery.”  
 The ban won’t shut down the Gulf’s oil and gas industry,
the U.S. said.  
 “There are nearly 7,000 active leases in the Gulf of
Mexico, with approximately 3,600 structures that account for 31
percent of total domestic oil production in the United States,”
the U.S. said. “None of this ongoing production is affected.”  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. interior secretary Kenneth Salazar, center, tours the Transocean Driller II platform in the Gulf of Mexico, U.S. Photographer: Tami A. Heilemann/U.S. Department of the Interior via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee from Washington about President Barack Obama’s response to the oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico, and the six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling.
     Obama said BP Plc's will put $20 billion over four years into an oil spill compensation fund that will be independently administered by lawyer Kenneth Feinberg. The fund won’t cap BP’s liability for cleanup costs and economic damage, Obama said after he and some of his top advisers met with BP executives at the White House, and it won’t supersede the rights of individuals or states to sue the company. The company also will contribute $100 million to a fund to help support unemployed oil rig workers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
