-- Hungary's Planned Bank Tax May Force Insurers Out, Industry Group Says
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-06-16T10:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/hungary-s-planned-bank-tax-may-force-insurers-out-industry-group-says.html

          
          
             Hungary’s planned tax on financial
institutions may force insurance companies to quit the country
as the extra levy will make them unprofitable, the head of the
insurance association said.  
 The recently elected government wants to raise 200 billion
forint ($878 million) this year from a tax levied on banks,
insurance companies and financial leasing firms, Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  said on June 8.  
 The tax is part of Orban’s economic action plan aimed at
cutting the budget  deficit  to 3.8 percent of gross domestic
product in 2010.  
 “The extra tax will mean that small and medium-size
insurers will become loss-making this year and this will
immediately raise capital adequacy issues,”  Peter Kisbenedek ,
the chairman of the association of Hungarian insurers, known as
Mabisz, said at a press conference in Budapest. As a result, a
wave of consolidation will hit the market and several insurers
“may quit the country.”  
 In a letter to the prime minister, Hungary’s foreign-owned
banks requested a review of the effects of the proposed tax,
news portal  Portfolio.hu  reported today, without citing anyone.
There is growing resentment in the banking industry against the
tax, the news website said, citing several unidentified bank
executives.  
 Insurance firms will try to work out a consensus for the
basis of the planned tax, Kisbenedek said.  
 The nation’s lenders are also seeking an agreement among
themselves on whether the tax should be based on profit, total
assets or other indicators, Janos Muller, chief adviser to the
Hungarian bank association, said over the phone today. Financial
firms have until the end of next week to present their proposals
to the government, Muller said.  
 -- Editors:  Chris Peterson ,  Alan Purkiss   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        