-- Murdoch Seeks `Rewards' of BSkyB Investment With Offer
-- Jonathan Browning
-- 2010-06-16T10:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/murdoch-seeks-to-reap-rewards-of-bskyb-investment-with-bid-for-company.html

          
          
             For  Rupert Murdoch  taking full
control of  British Sky Broadcasting Plc  has a clear goal:
reaping the rewards of an investment that has helped the U.K.
pay-TV company grow faster than his own News Corp.  
 Sales of New York-based News Corp grew by 28 percent in the
five years through June 2009, according to Bloomberg data.
BSkyB, 39 percent owned by News Corp., had revenue growth of 39
percent in the period. The U.K. company, which yesterday spurned
a 7.8 billion-pound ($11.5 billion) offer from News Corp. for
the remaining 61 percent, may grow further as the advertisement
market recovers.  
 “News Corp would like to get a piece of the action now
that they know that margins are likely to rise,” said  Alexander Wisch , an analyst at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research in
London. “It’s time to reap the rewards.”  
 Murdoch is seeking more from his BSkyB holding, the value
of which has more than doubled since the London-based company’s
initial public offering on Dec. 8, 1994. The U.K. company’s
shares have also outperformed those of News Corp., which dropped
by about a fifth in the last five years. In contrast, BSkyB
shares rose 18 percent, not including the 17 percent gain after
News Corp.’s offer.  
 BSkyB was created by the 1990 merger of Murdoch’s Sky
Television and British Satellite Broadcasting. The U.K. channel,
has taken subscription numbers to about 10 million from 1
million, thanks to exclusive rights to popular events such as
the Premier League, England’s top soccer league and offerings
such as the History Channel and  Disney Channel .  
 Subscriptions  
 News Corp.’s 40 percent stake at the time of BSkyB’s IPO
was valued at 1.76 billion pounds. At BSkyB’s stock price before
News Corp.’s offer was made public, its 39 percent stake was
worth 4.2 billion pounds.  
 The bid for the remainder of BSkyB reflects 79-year-old
Murdoch’s ambitions to generate more money from subscriptions at
a time when many newspapers, magazines and TV shows are free
online and films and music can easily be downloaded illegally.
News Corp., which already charges for online access to  The Wall
Street Journal , will also begin charging for the websites of  The
Times of London  and The Sunday Times this month.  
 James Murdoch , 37, son of Rupert, became the chief
executive officer of BSkyB in 2003 and left the post in 2007
after News Corp. promoted him to run the media company’s
operations in Europe and Asia, putting him in line to succeed
his father. James stayed at BSkyB as a non-executive chairman.  
 ‘Excellent Selling Machine’  
 When James Murdoch became CEO, he was the youngest chief of
a FTSE-100 company. During his time as BSkyB CEO, he helped the
company more than double annual profit and increase sales by
more than 40 percent, overcoming some initial skepticism from
investors about his ability to run the show. He stepped up
marketing to compete with cable operator  Virgin Media  and
bundled high-speed Internet with television and phone offerings.  
 The current BSkyB CEO,  Jeremy Darroch , 47, is expanding the
company’s high-definition subscriber business to tap demand. The
company on April 29 said high-definition subscriber additions
increased 76 percent to 428,000 in the last quarter after it cut
installation prices. Earnings before interest, taxes and
exceptional items in the nine months to March 31 climbed to 618
million pounds from 589 million pounds a year earlier.  
 “BSkyB proved to be an excellent selling machine,”  Mike Jeremy , an analyst at Daniel Stewart Securities in London, said
via phone. “The way they introduced Sky High-Definition and
caught that wave has been well executed.” Full control of BSkyB
would give Murdoch the “ability to fold them into the platform
on a much broader and global reach than they do at the moment.”  
 European Footprint  
 Analysts say News Corp’s wants to take full control to
enhance its ability to cut costs through other European pay-TV
assets. In December, News Corp. raised its stake in Sky
Deutschland AG, Germany’s biggest pay-TV service, to more than
45 percent. In Italy, News Corp. controls local pay-TV company
Sky Italia SpA.  
 “You have a footprint in Europe which allows you to have
tremendous power in purchasing content,” Standard & Poor’s
Wisch said. “When you buy series from Hollywood studios, it’s a
different story if you can buy series for Italy and Germany as
well.”  
 A deal may also shield BSkyB from public scrutiny as it
becomes part of a larger and global media company, the analysts
said. U.K. market regulator Ofcom this year said that BSkyB will
be forced to make its sports channels available to competitors
at set wholesale prices.  
 “For BSkyB, out of the plc scrutiny, they can invest for
the long term,” said  Steven Liechti , an analyst at Investec.  
 BSkyB in May delisted from the New York Stock Exchange.  
 Board Divergence  
 The company’s independent board is likely to test Murdoch’s
resolve to take control. BSkyB’s independent directors said
Murdoch needs to pay more. The 700 pence-a-share offer needs to
be boosted to more than 800 pence a share, they said yesterday.  
 “It is the unanimous view of the independent directors
that there is a significant gap between the proposal from News
Corp. and the value of the company,” said  Nicholas Ferguson ,
who’s BSkyB’s senior independent non-executive director. “The
independent directors remain fully committed to acting in the
interests of all shareholders and will continue to meet on a
regular basis.”  
 Four out of BSkyB’s 14 board members are linked to News
Corp., including the pay-TV company’s chairman James Murdoch.
Its independent board members include BHP Billiton Plc Chairman
 Jacques Nasser  and  Gail Rebuck , CEO of Random House UK Ltd.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A woman uses a Sky remote control in Romford, U.K. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- David Joyce, an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co., talks about Rupert Murdoch's efforts to charge for online content and News Corp.'s offer to take full control of British Sky Broadcasting Plc.
     Joyce talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Alex DeGroote, media analyst at Panmure Gordon, talks about News Corp.'s 7.8 billion-pound ($11.5 billion) offer for the remaining 61 percent of British Sky Broadcasting Plc's shares.
     He speaks on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse with Andrea Catherwood." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- David Bank, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, discusses the possibility of Rupert Murdoch taking full control of British Sky Broadcasting Plc after his initial offer of $11.5 billion was rejected yesterday. 
     Bank talks with Deirdre Bolton and Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.” (Source: Bloomberg) 
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
