-- Turkish Central Bank to Leave Key Interest Rate Unchanged, Survey Shows
-- Steve Bryant
-- 2010-06-16T12:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/turkish-central-bank-to-leave-key-interest-rate-unchanged-survey-shows.html

          
          
             Turkey’s central bank will probably
keep its  benchmark interest rate  at 7 percent after inflation
slowed and European debt problems threatened to undermine the
Turkish economic recovery.  
 The bank will hold the one-week repo lending rate
unchanged, according to all 12 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg .
It will announce the decision at 7 p.m. tomorrow in Ankara. Last
month the bank shifted its policy rate to the lending rate from
the overnight borrowing rate, which is 6.5 percent.  
 Inflation  slowed to 9.1 percent in May from 10.2 percent a
month earlier, confirming the bank’s predictions. The rate will
decline further toward the end of the year and European debt
problems mean that “uncertainty over external demand is likely
to remain important for a long time,” the bank said May 18.  
 “The bank looks quite comfortable on inflation at least in
the medium term, despite pretty rapid growth,”  Sengul Dagdeviren , chief economist for ING Bank AS in Istanbul, said in
a telephone interview. “We think there will be rate rises
before the end of the year though.”  
 The bank at last month’s rates meeting stuck to a declared
policy of keeping the benchmark rate “at present levels for a
while longer and at low levels for a long time.”  
 Expectations for inflation over the next 12 months fell
after the May inflation figures were announced. The average
forecast declined to 7.23 percent from 7.48 percent in the
central bank’s biweekly survey of economists and executives,
released on June 8.  
 Gross domestic product  growth was 6 percent year-on-year in
the last three months of 2009, the statistics office said on
March 31. Growth of about 12 percent is possible in the first
quarter, after which it will slow down, Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said on June 3.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        