-- Uruguay's Diego Forlan Silences South African Vuvuzelas as Hosts Lose 3-0
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-17T12:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/urugauy-s-diego-forlan-scores-twice-to-silence-south-african-vuvuzelas.html

          
          
             The vuvuzelas went quiet in South
Africa last night.  
 The plastic horns that have droned on during soccer’s first
World Cup on African soil were silenced as Uruguay, led by  Diego Forlan’s  two goals, crushed hosts South Africa 3-0 in its second
Group A game.  
 Bafana Bafana, as the team is known in Zulu, now risks
becoming the first host to fail to make the second stage in the
quadrennial tournament’s 80-year history.  
 “We let our fans down,” midfielder Kagisho Dikgacoi said
in an interview after the match at Loftus Versfeld in Pretoria.
“We played our hearts out but lost by three goals. I’m sure the
supporters will still be with us.”  
 Uruguay tops Group A with four points after two games while
South Africa has one. France and Mexico, which also have one
point each, meet later today in Polokwane.  
 South African midfielder  Steven Pienaar  said the hosts need
Mexico and France to tie. That will give South Africa a chance
of making the next round if it beats 1998 champion France on
June 22 and Mexico fails to beat Uruguay, champions in 1930 and
1950.  
 “We have to cross fingers tomorrow and hope for a draw and
play a cup final against France,” Pienaar said in an interview.  
 Silent Horns  
 The defeat is the first suffered by a host in the opening
stage since Romania beat the U.S. 1-0 in 1994, and is the first
time in World Cup history the home nation hasn’t won either of
its opening two games.  
 “I think it was David against Goliath,” former Bafana
Bafana captain,  Lucas Radebe , said in an interview in Cape Town.
“I think in terms of experience, the quality in the field of
play, I think that’s what we lack. I think it showed last night.
It brought back to reality what this tournament was all about.”  
 Fans started streaming from the ground after Forlan added
to a 25th minute strike by converting a penalty with 10 minutes
to go. The horns, which have been controversial because they can
overpower stadium announcements and players’ attempts to
communicate on the field, went silent.  
 The stadium was half empty by the time Alvaro Pereira
completed the scoring in the last minute.  
 “The tournament’s not yet finished,” South African coach
 Carlos Alberto Parreira  told a post-match press conference.
“Whatever happens today the result will be decided in the final
round, but of course the team is not happy.”  
 ‘It’s Over’  
 The country has come together around the team, with tens of
thousands of South Africans lining the streets of Johannesburg
to greet the team as it rode on an open-top bus.  
 By the end of last night’s game disconsolate fans fretted
about the team’s limitations. Only North Korea, ranked at 105th,
is rated lower than 83rd-placed South Africa in FIFA’s official
standings.  
 “It’s bad man, it’s over,” said Lungani Zondi, a 41-year-
old wearing a yellow team jersey, after he watched the match on
a giant screen in the east-coast city of Durban. “We’re the
host country, we were supposed to go through.”  
 “The whole county’s expectations are very high and they’re
all expecting us to progress,” coach Parreira said. “If we
don’t achieve that then the whole nation will be disappointed.”  
 Uruguay hasn’t made it beyond the opening stage since 1990.
Forlan, 31, became the first player from his country to score in
two World Cup’s since 1954.  
 “I always try to be the same in all the matches I play,”
said Forlan, whose opening goal was a 30-yard drive. “Now we
have to rest and try to be back to our best for the next game.”  
 ‘Lone Striker’  
 South Africa’s attack couldn’t compare with the threat of
Forlan and partner Luis Suarez. It was 70 minutes before
Uruguayan goalkeeper Fernando Muslera stopped a shot on target.
South Africa’s Katlego Mphela played as a lone striker and
struggled to get ahead of a defense that had the joint-second
best record in South American qualifying.  
 “I hope the other games are going to be like this one,”
Muslera said. “I thought South Africa would be better, but I
didn’t need to do anything” in the end.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at Loftus Versfeld via the London newsroom on +44-
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        