-- Uruguay Beats Host South Africa 3-0 at World Cup With Forlan Scoring Twice
-- Alastair Reed
-- 2010-06-16T22:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/uruguay-beats-host-south-africa-3-0-at-world-cup-with-forlan-scoring-twice.html

          
          
             Diego Forlan  scored twice as Uruguay
beat South Africa 3-0 to move to the top of Group A at soccer’s
World Cup today, leaving the host nation without a win after two
games.  
 Forlan got the opener in the 24th minute in Pretoria, with
the second goal on 80 minutes from a penalty kick after South
African goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune was red-carded for tripping
Luis Suarez. Alvaro Pereira added a third goal in injury time.  
 Uruguay has four points from two games, with South Africa,
France and Mexico all on one point. France and Mexico meet in
their second game tomorrow.  
 “We will carry on fighting and carry on trying to
progress,” South African coach  Carlos Alberto Parreira  told
reporters at Loftus Versfeld stadium after the game. “Uruguay
is a team that is much more experienced then we are and this
experience proved crucial.”  
 South Africa, the first African nation to host the World
Cup, has never been past the group stage of the competition. It
is the first host to fail to win either of its opening two
matches. Uruguay, champion in 1930 and 1950, is now unbeaten in
three matches against South Africa.  
 Forlan got the first goal from 30 yards, benefiting from a
slight deflection off  Aaron Mokoena , with Khune stationary as
the ball flew into the net.  
 Rarely Threatened  
 South Africa, which had scored in its last six World Cup
matches, rarely threatened, with Uruguay playing at a high tempo
and controlling much of the game.  
 The host’s first shot on target came after 70 minutes from
Teko Modise, but was comfortably held by goalkeeper Fernando
Muslera, who was 24 today.  
 Forlan’s penalty kick ended any hopes of a revival by South
Africa and the 10 men gave up another goal as Pereira headed in.  
 South Africa’s Parreira blamed the referee for ending his
team’s chances of securing a draw, even though television
replays appear to show Khune making contact with Suarez.  
 “It was the worst referring performance of the tournament
so far - he was giving fouls that weren’t fouls, yellow cards
that weren’t yellow cards and then left the ground with a big
smile on his face,” Parreria said. “I hope we don’t see his
face in this tournament again because he doesn’t deserve to be
here.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net ;
 Alastair Reed  in Pretoria on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        