-- Uzbeks Holed Up in Kyrgyz City of Osh as Violence Leaves at Least 189 Dead
-- Ilya Arkhipov
-- 2010-06-17T15:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/uzbek-leader-says-300-killed-in-kyrgyzstan-as-army-seeks-to-restore-order.html

          
          
             Uzbeks are barricaded in their
neighborhoods in the Kyrgyz city of Osh, which was at the center
of rioting and ethnic violence that left at least 189 dead and
displaced about 300,000 in the south of the country.  
 Fearing sniper fire and mob attacks, ethnic Uzbeks have
blocked off entrances to their neighborhoods with trees,
benches, paving stones and tables. In one area with about 1,000
homes, 75 percent were damaged by fires and some destroyed.
People are surviving on what food they had in their homes before
the bloodshed began on June 10.  
 In Jalalabad, also hard hit by violence, about a fifth of
the city was hit by fires and rioting, the 24.kg news service
 reported , citing Kamchybek Tashiyev, a former emergency
situations minister.  
 “I went to a village a kilometer from Jalalabad yesterday,
where 40 Uzbeks died last Sunday,” said an Uzbek woman from the
city who declined to be named, fearing retribution. “My
brother-in-law’s sister and her children were burnt alive in
their basement. Only the cats survived. A pregnant neighbor was
also killed.”  
 The most recent violence in Kyrgyzstan erupted when
supporters of ousted President  Kurmanbek Bakiyev  clashed with
those loyal to the interim government. Ethnic Uzbeks welcomed
Bakiyev’s overthrow in April, blaming him for impeding growth of
the minority group’s businesses and ignoring its political
leaders. Many Kyrgyz in the south supported Bakiyev, who comes
from the region.  
 Historical Backdrop  
 The Uzbek community ended up in Kyrgyzstan in the early
years of the Soviet Union when Vladimir Lenin re-drew the
borders of central Asian states. Tensions escalated within the
last decade when the Uzbek government built a barbed wire fence
that encroached on Kyrgyz territory to keep Islamic militants
out. Kyrgyzstan protested and pointed out the two nations had
signed an Eternal Friendship Treaty in 1996.  
 While many buildings in Osh have been gutted by fire and
shops looted, others are intact, some bearing the painted
message: “Kyrgyz, don’t touch.”  
 The United Nations said about 300,000 people have been
forced from their homes in Kyrgyzstan, and at least 40,000 of
them have no shelter. Neighboring Uzbekistan is providing
assistance to about 100,000 refugees who have fled Kyrgyzstan,
mostly to the Andijan province.  
 Emergency Aid  
 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said it
had delivered 160 metric tons of emergency supplies to
Uzbekistan, where most refugees are being housed in schools,
warehouses and sports centers.  
 The U.S., which relies on an air base in Kyrgyzstan to
support operations in Afghanistan, has dedicated $10.3 million
for aid to the country, the Embassy in Bishkek said yesterday on
its  website .  Robert Blake , assistant secretary for South and
Central Asian affairs, will travel to Bishkek on June 18 for
talks with the government.  
 Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  spoke to interim
President  Roza Otunbayeva  yesterday and discussed the current
situation as well as aid requirements, State Department
spokesman  Philip Crowley  said.  
 ‘Fratricidal War’  
 Russia and its allies in Central Asia should send
peacekeeping troops to stop a “fratricidal war” in Kyrgyzstan,
former Kyrgyz President  Askar Akayev  said. Akayev, 65, was
himself overthrown in the so-called Tulip Revolution of 2005,
after ruling Kyrgyzstan since 1990. He was succeeded by Bakiyev.  
 “The interim government knows that it can’t stop this
process on its own,” Akayev said by telephone from Moscow on
June 15. “Peacekeeping troops from the  Collective Security
Treaty Organization  are needed, but its charter allows their use
only in cases of external aggression. A mechanism must be found
to deploy troops. Time is short.”  
 Nikolai Bordyuzha , the organization’s general secretary,
said it doesn’t plan to send peacekeepers to Kyrgyzstan,
Interfax reported today. The organization, founded in 1992,
unites Russia and six other former Soviet republics: Armenia,
Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.  
 The interim government claims that the violence was aimed
at disrupting a June 27 referendum on a new constitution and was
funded by people close to Bakiyev.  
 ‘Iron Fist’  
 “We’re not going to vote because of what the Kyrgyz have
done to us,” said Saidulla Tokhtasinov, a 20-year-old ethnic
Uzbek in Osh. “How can we?” he said, pointing at a courtyard
filled with rubble.  
 The Uzbek woman in Jalalabad said she will vote if the
referendum is held. “We don’t need anything but peace and
order,” she said. “We need a good president who’ll take care
of us. Bakiyev was good, but his relatives did many things
wrong. Otunbayeva is a good person, but she’s a woman. We need
an iron fist.”  
 Landlocked Kyrgyzstan depends on remittances from migrant
workers in Russia for about 40 percent of national income, and
also relies on rent paid by the U.S. and Russia for their bases.
Kyrgyzstan’s average monthly wage was $132 in January, according
to the country’s National Statistical Committee.  
 About a third of the population lives below the poverty
level, making the country eligible for aid from the
International Development Association, the World Bank’s support
arm for the poorest economies.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joanna Lillis  in Osh through the London newsroom at 
2254 or  joannalillis123@gmail.com 
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kyrgyz special unit police officers stand by during patrol at a check point in Osh. Photographer: Viktor Drachev/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
