-- Vinci Holds Out for $4.5 Billion Bahrain-Qatar Bridge Amid Border Dispute
-- Henry Meyer
-- 2010-06-16T07:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/vinci-holds-out-for-4-5-billion-bridge-delayed-by-bahrain-qatar-dispute.html

          
          
             Vinci SA , the world’s largest
builder, said it hasn’t managed to agree on a final contract for
a $4.5 billion project to build the world’s longest bridge 
between Qatar and Bahrain, amid a diplomatic stand-off between 
the Gulf neighbors.  
 “We had hoped to start the project in 2010,”  Vanessa Lattes , a Vinci spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The studies are finished and we are now working on
all the technical and budgetary aspects.”  
 The two countries said in November that work on the 40-
kilometer (25-mile) maritime bridge would start in the first
quarter of 2010 and finish in 2015. It would link Bahrain, an
 archipelago , to Qatar and to a planned rail network across the
six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council.  
 A decades-old territorial dispute sparked a naval incident
with Qatari coastguards last month that injured a Bahraini
fisherman, and Bahrain retaliated by closing indefinitely the
office of Qatari broadcaster Al Jazeera. Qatar now appears to be
stalling on the bridge project, said  John Sfakianakis , chief
economist at Riyadh-based Banque Saudi Fransi.  
 Bahrain, which is the smallest Gulf oil producer and is
running out of reserves, has a “greater need” to open up to
the rest of the Gulf than Qatar, owner of the world’s third-
largest gas reserves, Sfakianakis said in a telephone interview.
“The obstacles are more emanating from Qatar than Bahrain.”  
 Vinci, based outside Paris,  announced  in 2008 that it had
won a contract to design the bridge, as part of a group that
includes state-owned Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. and
Germany’s  Hochtief AG . It put the cost at $3 billion.  
 Rail Line Added  
 Gerald Mille , chief executive of Vinci’s joint venture with
Qatari Diar, said in March 2009 that the addition of a rail line
to the project had increased the budget to $4.5 billion, and
that work would begin soon.  
 Dubai-based  Gulf News , citing unidentified people, reported
on June 8 that the two countries put the project on hold because
of “escalating costs and increased political tension.”  
 Bahrain denied that the plan to build the bridge, which
dates back to 2001, had been suspended. Work on the project is
progressing as scheduled, the official Bahrain News Agency said
June 8, citing Finance Ministry Undersecretary Arif Saleh
Khamees.  
 Lattes said in a June 8 interview that a Vinci team is
still at the site, though part of it has been redeployed to work
on other projects.  
 Saudi Causeway  
 Bahrain, which currently is linked to one other Gulf
neighbor, Saudi Arabia, by a 25-kilometer causeway, said in
January last year that the new bridge would act as “a  boost for
Bahrain’s role  as an ideal access point for international
companies to develop their business in Gulf economies.” The
causeway would cut the journey time by road between Bahrain and
Qatar from the current five hours, via Saudi Arabia, to 30
minutes across the bridge.  
 Qatari Diar declined to comment when asked about the reason
for the delay in proceeding with the construction phase.  
 Hochtief spokesman  Christian Gerhardus  said in a June 7
telephone interview that the Essen, Germany-based company got a
“small sum” for its planning work on the bridge project. The
actual construction contract was never awarded, so it’s not part
of Hochtief’s order book, he said.  
 Bahrain was the first Gulf state to discover oil, in 1932,
and its reserves are expected to run out in 10 to 15 years,
according to the  U.S. State Department .  
 Dwindling oil revenues mean that it can’t afford to pay for
the construction of the bridge by itself, and it won’t happen
unless Qatar provides “the majority of the financing,” said
Sfakianakis.  
 Territorial Dispute  
 The territorial conflict centers on Bahrain’s control of
the disputed Hawar Islands just off western Qatar. The
International Court of Justice in 2001 awarded sovereignty of
the islands to Bahrain.  
 Qatar is probably resisting demands from Bahrain to pay
high fees for future use of the islands as it develops its
offshore energy resources, according to  Dalton Garis , an analyst
at the Petroleum Institute in Abu Dhabi.  
 The bridge represents a powerful bargaining chip for Qatar,
said Sfakianakis. “The causeway would play the symbolic role of
linking up Bahrain to the rest of the GCC, it would make Bahrain
feel that they are opened up to another part of the Gulf.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Dubai at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Vinci logo is display on a sign at a construction site in Paris. Photographer: Fabrice Dimier/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
