-- Washington Post's Stock Surge Triggers New Circuit Breaker
-- Kelly Bit
-- 2010-06-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/washington-post-s-stock-surge-triggers-new-sec-circuit-breaker.html

          
          
             Three equity orders that pushed
 Washington Post Co.  shares up 99 percent in less than one second
yesterday show why the Securities and Exchange Commission began
a program this month to halt stocks during times of volatility.  
 Trades  totaling 766 shares at $919.18 or $929.18 crossed on
NYSE Euronext’s NYSE Arca platform at 3:07:30 p.m. in New York,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock changed hands for
$462.84 prior to the jump. The orders, later canceled, triggered
a five-minute halt under rules adopted after the  May 6 crash 
erased $862 billion from U.S. stocks in less than 20 minutes.  
 While the regulations didn’t prevent the erroneous orders
from being placed, they may have kept more shares from being
bought and sold at prices that would later have been voided,
said Jefferies Group Inc.’s  Art Hogan . The SEC began its circuit
breaker program last week to slow down trading when faulty data
or panic may be influencing the market.  
 “It’s a good idea to have a system in place to give people
time to sort things out,” said Hogan, chief market analyst at
New York-based Jefferies, a broker-dealer whose trading clients
include pension funds and hedge funds. “Part of what you want
to do is make sure things don’t dislocate as much as they did.
If that’s the case, what happened with the  Washington Post  was
fine today. We would like to see it rolled out on a broader
basis in the next month or so and see how it works on a real
difficult day.”  
 The circuit breakers pause stocks in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index when they rise or fall 10 percent in five minutes or
less. Following the halt,  Washington Post  fell to $453.25 from
$929.18 and changed hands for $458.19 at 4 p.m. in New York. A
total of 57,739 Washington Post shares changed hands today.  
 May 6 Memory  
 The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged almost 1,000
points on May 6. A May 18 report from the SEC and Commodity
Futures Trading Commission gave six potential causes of the
crash, including trading curbs that applied only at the New York
Stock Exchange. Halts “will help reduce the likelihood of this
type of unusual trading activity from recurring,” SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  said on June 2.  
 The jump in Washington Post shares today shows that
regulators have yet to find a way to prevent volatility that
undermines trust in the stock market, said  Jeff Rubin , an
analyst at Westport, Connecticut-based Birinyi Associates Inc.,
the research and investment firm founded by  Laszlo Birinyi .  
 “Today we received the first ‘proof’ of our belief that
the new individual 10 percent stock circuit breakers would be
ineffective at preventing days like May 6 or clearly erroneous
trades from occurring,” Rubin wrote in a note to clients. “The
new rule is not the correct cure for the disease as the majority
of erroneous trades occur immediately following allowable trades
and hence the stock is still allowed to trade well in excess of
the 10 percent threshold.”  
 Diebold Plunge  
 A June 2 plunge in  Diebold Inc.  that erased 30 percent of
its market value in six seconds is under review by U.S.
regulators, people with direct knowledge of the investigation
said. The stock slumped $8 in six seconds to $18.26 before
recovering to above $25 a minute later, Bloomberg data show.  
 Four-hundred twenty-seven trades occurred in  Diebold  below
$23 totaling about 113,600 shares, according to Bloomberg data.
All of them took place on electronic venues such as Nasdaq Stock
Market and Bats Exchange.  
 Delaware Senator  Ted Kaufman  said on CNBC yesterday that
aberrant trading in Diebold and Washington Post isn’t good for
the market.  
 “Markets must be credible, or they’re no good,” said
Kaufman, a Democrat. Extreme advances and declines for no
apparent reason is “death by a thousand cuts,” he said.  
 Other Methods  
 The SEC is considering other methods such as pricing
collars to prevent  orders  that could trade at levels
significantly away from a stock’s price from entering markets,
Schapiro said on June 14. She described collars available on
Bats Exchange, which prevent market orders from trading at a
price more than 50 cents or 5 percent worse than the best
available bid or ask, as “quite intriguing.”  
 “I’d say the circuit breaker worked,” said  Edward Wedbush , chief executive officer of Wedbush Securities Inc. in
Los Angeles. “It was apparently a tiny item, an error trade,
rather than reflective of large selling or buying demand from
multiple sources, but the circuit breaker did its job.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
 Kelly Bit  in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Washington Post building in downtown Washington. Photographer: Ken Cedeno/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
