-- Soybean Futures Advance as Crude Oil's Climb May Boost Demand for Biofuels
-- Jae Hur
-- 2010-06-16T13:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/wheat-climbs-on-concern-about-rainfall-in-canada-oklahoma-soybeans-rise.html

          
          
             Wheat climbed in Chicago and Paris
on concern excessive rain will reduce planting in Canada, the
world’s second-largest exporter of the grain, and damaged crops
in Oklahoma.  
 Wheat for September delivery rose 0.6 percent to $4.7025 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:11 p.m. Paris time.  
 Farmers in western Canada are forecast to sow the fewest
acres of spring wheat since 1971 because of low prices and
excess rain, the Canadian Wheat Board said June 11. Oklahoma’s
winter-wheat crop, the U.S.’s second-largest after Kansas, was
damaged by heavy rain, the Oklahoma Wheat Commission said.  
 “Further rain is expected in the saturated Canadian
prairies, which will limit spring-wheat production, and the
winter-wheat harvest in the U.S. southern plains will slow
because of rain,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, wrote in a daily note today.  
 Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris rose 0.2 percent to 139 euros ($170.87) a metric ton,
paring a climb of as much as 1.1 percent.  
 Canada’s spring-wheat planting is expected to fall 9
percent from last year, and seeding of the durum variety of the
grain may drop 40 percent, according to  Bruce Burnett , the CWB’s
director of weather and market analysis.  
 Oklahoma’s winter-wheat crop was damaged after 12 inches of
rain fell in some areas of the state, toppling wheat plants, the
state’s wheat commission said.  
 Oklahoma Crop  
 About 38 percent of the Oklahoma crop was collected as of
June 13, up from 12 percent a week earlier, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture said in a report on June 14. Farmers who have yet
to harvest their grain may not get back into fields this week,
the Oklahoma Wheat Commission said.  
 Australia, the world’s fourth-largest wheat exporter, kept
its forecast for the next harvest little changed, according to a
government agency. Output may be 22.1 million tons in 2010-11,
compared with a March estimate of 21.94 million tons, the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics said
today. The previous harvest was 21.66 million tons.  
 Soybeans in Chicago and rapeseed in Paris climbed on
concern the rain in Canada will cut the canola harvest there.
Soybeans, rapeseed and canola, a rapeseed variety, are used to
produce animal feed, vegetable oils and biodiesel.  
 Canada is the largest exporter of canola, followed by
Ukraine, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data.  
 Canadian Flooding  
 “The news remains dominated by the flooding in Canada and,
as a consequence, the rise of rapeseed and canola,” Paris-based
farm adviser Agritel said in an online comment today.  
 Soybeans for November delivery gained 0.5 percent to
$9.2025 a bushel. The oilseed yesterday reached $9.2625, the
highest level for a most-active contract since June 8.  
 Rapeseed for November delivery rose 1.3 percent to 334
euros a ton, the seventh advance in a row.  
 Corn for December delivery slipped 0.1 percent to $3.745 a
bushel in Chicago. The grain has dropped 9.6 percent this year,
in part on forecasts for higher U.S. output.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at   jhur1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        