-- Reggie Bush's Heisman to Be Discussed by Football Body After Ineligibility
-- Mason Levinson
-- 2010-06-16T19:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/whether-bush-keeps-heisman-definitely-will-be-discussed-by-organizers.html

          
          
             The organization that presents the
 Heisman Trophy  will discuss whether  Reggie Bush  should keep his
2005 award after college football’s governing body ruled him
ineligible the season he won it.  
 “It definitely will be discussed, but other than that I
have no comment,” Tim Henning, a spokesman for the Heisman
Trophy Trust, said in a telephone interview.  
 The group, a charitable organization, gathers monthly and
has a meeting planned for July, Henning said. He declined to
pinpoint the date. The group meets on the second Tuesday of
every month, ESPN reported, citing an interview with Heisman
Trophy Trust President  William Dockery . That would mean the
issue could be reviewed July 13.  
 Bush won the Heisman as college football’s best player in
2005, topping runner-up  Vince Young . The award has never been
stripped in its 75-year history.  
 The ballot for the trophy states that “recipients must be
in compliance with the bylaws defining an NCAA student
athlete.”  
 The National Collegiate Athletic Association on June 11
stripped football victories from the University of Southern
California, Bush’s team, for violations that primarily involved
“agent and amateurism issues” surrounding the running back.  
 The school, which also faces a two-year bowl ban, must
vacate all wins in which Bush competed while ineligible,
beginning in December 2004. The Trojans beat Oklahoma in the
Orange Bowl in January 2005, claiming the Bowl Championship
Series national title. Their BCS title won’t be reviewed until a
USC appeal to the NCAA is completed.  
 ‘Death Without Dying’  
 Speaking publicly today about the NCAA ruling for the first
time, Bush told reporters that USC’s punishment feels like “the
closest thing to death without dying,” the Associated Press
reported. He declined to address the specific allegations
against him and said he has no fear of losing his Heisman, AP
said.  
 Bush was sued in 2007 by San Diego sports marketer Lloyd
Lake, who claimed he provided Bush and his family with $291,000
in money and goods, including a vehicle and housing, while the
running back was at USC, according to a Dec. 28 California
appeals court ruling.  
 Bush, who is now with the NFL’s New Orleans Saints, settled
the lawsuit last month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        