-- Calpers Managers Relational, Ares Agree to Cut Fees (Correct)
-- Michael B. Marois
-- 2010-06-17T19:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/whitworth-s-relational-ares-agree-to-cut-fees-to-calpers-by-40-million.html

          
          
             Relational Investors LLC, the
shareholder-activist fund run by Ralph Whitworth, and Ares
Management LLC have agreed to cut management fees they charge
the California Public Employees’ Retirement System.  
 Relational will trim $30 million from its fees over five
years and Los Angeles-based Ares by $10 million during the same
time, according to Joe Dear, the pension fund’s chief investment
officer. Both firms also agreed to stop using middlemen, known
as placement agents, to win business from the fund, Dear said at
a meeting of the pension’s administrative board in Sacramento.  
 Calpers has been one of the leading supporters of new
guidelines for institutional investors proposed by the
Institutional Limited Partners Association. The revised rules
seek to give fund clients more rights while reducing fees.  
 The ILPA guidelines, issued in September and endorsed by
more than 100 group members, mark a shift in relations between
private-equity firms and their investors. Typically, investors
agree to terms set by the asset managers. Ares had about $37
billion in assets as of March 31, according to its website.  
 Relational, which invests in public companies, said it had
about $1.5 billion in commitments from Calpers. Whitworth said
last month that the San Diego-based company had about $6.5
billion in assets. A Calpers spokesman, Brad Pacheco, said
Calpers has committed $990 million to Ares.  
 Backing Off Agents  
 The agreement “confirms the underlying principles and
terms of our strong strategic relationship,” Bill Mendel, an
Ares spokesman, said in a statement. “It also reaffirms one of
Ares’ longstanding goals -- to ensure increased transparency in
fundraising determinations and lower fees in order to build
public confidence in our industry.”  
 In April, Apollo Global Management LLC agreed to reduce
what it charges Calpers by $125 million over the next five
years. The New York-based company led by Leon Black also agreed
not to employ placement agents.  
 The self-imposed ban on the use of placement agents by the
fund managers follows federal and state investigations into
influence-peddling for access to the $2 trillion in U.S. public
retirement fund assets.  
 Placement agents typically earn 0.5 percent to 3 percent of
the money that pensions put under their clients’ management,
according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association. The agents often work for hedge funds, private-
equity, venture-capital and real-estate firms.  
 Placement-Agent Lawsuit  
 California in May sued two former Calpers officials who had
become placement agents, claiming fraud. The state accused
Federico Buenrostro Jr. and Alfred Villalobos of trying to
improperly influence investment staff at the pension fund to
place $4.8 billion in assets with clients such as Apollo.  
 Apollo wasn’t accused of wrongdoing. Villalobos has denied
the state’s claims, and a statement from his lawyers said
Buenrostro also would be vindicated.  
 Calpers, with $201 billion of assets under management as of
March 31, is backing a bill in the state Legislature to curtail
the contingency fees, or commissions, paid to placement agents.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        