-- Yale Murder Suspect Clark's Family Calls Him `Loving' in Show of Support
-- John Dillon
-- 2010-06-16T17:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/yale-murder-suspect-clark-s-family-calls-him-loving-in-show-of-support.html

          
          
             The family of  Raymond Clark , a Yale
University laboratory worker accused of murdering graduate
student  Annie Le , appeared in a Connecticut courthouse for the
first time to support him, calling him “kind-hearted.”  
 Nine of Clark’s supporters, including his parents and
fiancee, attended a two-minute hearing today at Connecticut
Superior Court in New Haven. Clark, cuffed, shackled and wearing
an orange prison jumpsuit, smiled and nodded at them.  
 The appearance before Superior Court Judge Roland Fasano
was a routine pretrial hearing. Fasano set July 26 as Clark’s
next court appearance.  
 After the hearing, Clark’s father, Raymond Clark Jr., read
a brief statement to the press outside the courtroom and
declined to answer questions.  
 “These have been difficult times,” the elder Clark said.
“We have always been, and will continue to be, a strong,
loving, and supportive family.”  
 The father called Clark “a loving, caring, kind-hearted
son, brother, fiancee, and friend -- unlike the picture that has
been painted of him.” Clark’s mother, Diane, and fiancee,
Jennifer Hromadka, were also in court.  
 A book scheduled for publication on June 29 is expected to
portray Clark in a different light.  
 ‘Deadly Agenda’  
 “He had a dark past -- and a deadly agenda,” reads the
blurb to the book, to be published by St. Martin’s and titled
“Murder at Yale: The True Story of a Beautiful Grad Student and
a Cold-Blooded Crime.”  
 The book “will put forward a lot of theories,” its
author, Stella Sands, said in a telephone interview. Sands
declined to outline the theories, which she said are based on
court documents and interviews.  
 Clark, 25, was arrested Sept. 17, 2009, and is being held
on $3 million bail. He is charged with one count of murder and a
second count of felony murder.  
 He is accused of strangling Le five days before her Sept.
13 wedding. Clark cleaned mouse cages in the Yale laboratory
building where her body was found.  
 Clark’s arrest affidavit, unsealed Nov. 13, showed that
before his arrest police had found at the crime scene a pen and
a blood-stained sock with both Clark’s and Le’s DNA on them.  
 Le’s body was discovered hidden behind a wall in the
basement of the Yale School of Medicine research lab at 10
Amistad St. in New Haven the day she was to be married.  
 The Office of Connecticut’s Chief Medical Examiner said in
a statement the day Clark was arrested that Le died of
“traumatic asphyxiation due to neck compression.”  
 Le, who was studying for a doctorate in pharmacology, was
from Placerville, California, according to a Sept. 25 Yale
University statement.  
 Clark was suspended from his job when he was arrested, Yale
University President  Richard Levin  said in a Sept. 17 statement.  
 The case is State of Connecticut v. Clark, CR09-97102-T,
Connecticut Superior Court (New Haven).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Dillon  in New Haven state court at  j.dillon@snet.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Raymond Clark III looks on at his arraignment at the New Haven Superior Court in connection with the murder of Yale University graduate student Annie Le in New Haven Connecticut on Sept. 17, 2009. Photographer: Douglas Healey-Pool/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
