-- Euro Rebounds; Bullish Spanish Bond-Sale Outcome Reassures Currency Market
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-06-17T11:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/yen-may-rise-versus-euro-on-concern-europe-debt-crisis-will-dent-recovery.html

          
          
             The euro strengthened against the
dollar and the yen for the third day this week after Spain’s
bond auction drew increased demand, easing concern about
Europe’s debt crisis.  
 The euro rose against 14 of 16 of its most active
counterparts as Spain raised 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of
bonds maturing in 2020 and 2041, reaching its maximum sales
target. The 30-year Spanish bond drew bids 2.45 times the amount
of securities on offer, compared with 1.38 times in the previous
auction in March. The Swiss franc strengthened against the euro
after the nation’s central bank said deflationary risks have
“largely disappeared.”  
 “The Spanish bond auction is fairly well covered and that
helped to boost the euro,” said  Adam Cole , global head of
currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in London. “The
market appeared to have taken the central bank’s statement to
mean that’s a green light to buy the franc.”  
 The euro rose 0.6 percent to $1.2379 as of 7:10 a.m. in New
York after falling to $1.2242. It strengthened to 113.06 against
the yen from 112.57 yesterday. The Swiss franc appreciated to
1.3779 against the euro from 1.3924.  
 The yen pared its earlier advance as gains in European
stocks and U.S. stock-index futures reduced demand for Japan’s
currency as a refuge.  
 “The strong demand for Spanish bonds should help restore
confidence,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , fixed income strategist at
Societe Generale in Paris. “The good demand was only possible
after considerable cheapening of Spanish bonds over the past
days.”  
 EU Meeting  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
government bonds instead of German bunds fell after the auction.
It remained within four basis points of a euro-era record of
2.21 percentage points reached yesterday.  
 The Spanish auction also reassured investors in other
markets, helping boost bank stocks such as  Banco Santander SA 
and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in Madrid trading. U.S.
stock futures also extended their gains, while U.S. Treasuries
declined as demand for the safest securities was eroded.  
 EU leaders will meet in Brussels to discuss the region’s
economies and the so-called stability and growth pact. The Bank
of Spain plans to make the findings of its stress tests public
to provide markets with full knowledge of the state of the
country’s banking system,  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez , the
central bank governor, said yesterday in a speech.  
 World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said yesterday there
are “challenges” ahead in Europe even if the rescue packages
put together by authorities have “bought time.”  
 Strengthening Franc  
 The Swiss National Bank today softened its stance on
fighting franc gains, saying deflation risks have eased. It left
its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 0.25 percent at its
quarterly meeting.  
 “Although the weakening of the euro with respect to the
Swiss franc is dampening export activity, this activity is being
supported by growth in foreign demand,” the SNB said. “In view
of these pleasing developments, the deflationary risk in
Switzerland has largely disappeared.”  
 The franc strengthened 8 percent against the euro this year
even as the SNB occasionally intervened to buy the euro to curb
gains in the local currency, which makes exports more expensive.
The euro region buys about two-thirds of the country’s exports.  
 Australia’s currency rose 0.2 percent to 86.54 U.S. cents,
and New Zealand’s rose 0.4 percent to 70.04 cents.  
 Benchmark interest rates of 4.5 percent in Australia and
2.75 percent in New Zealand compare with 0.1 percent in Japan
and as low as zero in the U.S., attracting investors to the
South Pacific nations’ higher-yielding assets.  
 The won led losses in Asian currencies against the dollar
on concern slowing global growth and the European crisis will
damp demand for goods made in the region.  
 “The won is sensitive to the euro,” said  Ko Yun Jin , a
currency dealer at Kookmin Bank in Seoul. “The won has been
fluctuating based on the euro’s movements.”  
 The won fell 0.5 percent to 1,216.35 per dollar, Malaysia’s
ringgit declined 0.5 percent to 3.2735, and Indonesia’s rupiah
dropped 0.2 percent to 9,163.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        