-- Euro Declines Against Dollar, Yen on European Debt, Global Growth Concern
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-06-16T20:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/yen-gains-versus-dollar-euro-on-u-s-recovery-sovereign-debt-concern.html

          
          
             The euro fell against the dollar and
the yen as most U.S. stocks declined amid concern that Europe’s
debt crisis will damp investor appetite for riskier assets.  
 The common currency trimmed its losses versus the greenback
as Spain’s central bank said it plans to publish the results of
stress tests carried out on the nation’s lenders in an effort to
dispel speculation that it would need international aid to
bolster its financial system. The correlation between the euro
and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has increased to 53 percent
from about 32 percent at the end of May.  
 “There’s still some serious problems in the euro zone that
aren’t going to be papered over,” said  Win Thin , a senior
currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New
York. “There’s a lot of uncertainty in the market, there’s
still concern about global growth.”  
 The euro declined 0.2 percent to $1.2308 at 4:25 p.m. in
New York, from $1.2332 yesterday, after falling as much as 0.6
percent, the biggest drop on an intraday basis since June 11.
The common currency fell 0.2 to 112.53 yen, from 112.78. The
dollar bought 91.43 yen, from 91.46.  
 The  S&P 500  declined 0.1 percent after earlier falling as
much as 0.7 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 0.1
percent. Crude oil rose 0.8 percent, reversing an earlier
decline of 1.1 percent.  
 ‘Chopping Around’  
 The Bank of Spain plans to make the findings public to
provide financial markets with full knowledge of the state of
the country’s banking system,  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez ,
the central bank’s governor, said in a speech today. He didn’t
say if he would release information on individual lenders. The
Bank of Spain has requested the information from lenders and
plans to publish the results in the short term, a spokesman
said, without being more specific.  
 The euro’s recovery against the dollar reflects “the fact
that the market is focused on the risks related to Spanish banks
and European banks in general,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a
currency strategist at Barclays Plc in New York. “Until there
is new information, it appears that markets will keep chopping
around.”  
 The euro earlier declined versus the yen as Spain, the
International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the
U.S. Treasury dismissed a report in the newspaper El Economista
that the Iberian nation is seeking a 250 billion euro ($307
billion) credit line.  
 ‘It’s Out There’  
 “We’re in a consolidation period overall,” said  John Doyle , a strategist at currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting
Inc. in Washington. “Equities had significant gains yesterday.
No one really wants to take a position one side or another.” He
expects the euro to trade in a range of $1.2150 and $1.2350 this
week.  
 The yield premium investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
government bonds instead of German bunds rose to a euro-era
record of 2.19 percentage points after the report of IMF aid.  
 Federal Reserve officials may reduce their 2010 economic
growth estimates by “several tenths” of a percentage point and
as much as 0.75 point for 2011 as Europe’s debt crisis saps
demand for American goods and roils financial markets, former
Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley  said in an interview.  
 That would mark a reversal from April, when officials
raised their projections for this year to a range of 3.2 percent
to 3.7 percent and left 2011 and 2012 forecasts little changed.
The Federal Open Market Committee meets June 22-23 in
Washington.  
 Pound Strengthens  
 Futures trading on the CME Group Inc. exchange showed a 40
percent chance that the Fed will raise its target rate for
overnight bank lending by at least a quarter-percentage point by
its January meeting, down from 57 percent odds one month ago.  
 The euro may extend its decline to a level last reached in
2003 on Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, according to  Sophia Drossos , co-head of global currency strategy at Morgan Stanley.  
 The shared currency will fall as much as 9 percent to $1.12
as the market forces the 16 member nations to rein in spending
on programs such as welfare and retirement benefits, Drossos
said in a radio interview today with  Tom Keene  on “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Levisohn  in New York at 
 blevisohn@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        