-- Mylan, Dow Patent Win, Books-a-Million, World Cup: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-06-16T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/mylan-dow-patent-win-books-a-million-world-cup-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. , a
maker of acne and wrinkle treatments, sued  Mylan Inc.  seeking to
stop sales of a generic form of its  Solodyn  tablets used to
treat pimples.  
 Mylan and a subsidiary are seeking U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval for a generic version of the treatment
before patent 5,908,838 held by Medicis expires, according to
the complaint filed June 14 in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware.  
 “Medicis will be irreparably harmed” unless Mylan is
prohibited from infringing the patent before it expires in 2018,
the company said in its court papers.  
 Medicis, based in Scottsdale, Arizona, logged $571.9
million in revenue last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Mylan, based in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, reported
sales of $5.09 billion last year.  
 Michael Laffin, a spokesman for Mylan, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  
 The case is Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. v. Mylan Inc.,
1:10-CV-00524, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 Dow Chemical Wins $61.7 Million in Nova Patent Trial  
 Dow Chemical Co. , the largest U.S. chemical maker, won
$61.7 million in damages as a jury found that rival  Nova
Chemicals Corp.  infringed two of its patents for super-strong
plastics used in grocery bags.  
 Dow, based in Midland, Michigan, sued Calgary-based Nova in
federal court in 2005 in Wilmington, Delaware, over the patents
5,847,053 and 6,111,023. Yesterday’s verdict followed a two-week
trial.  
 The panel of five women and three men deliberated about
three hours before also deciding the patents are valid. The
damages included $57.4 million in lost profit and $4.3 million
in royalties, according to the verdict read in court.  
 “The jury’s verdict is a critical step in establishing
that Dow’s patents are valid and enforceable,” and the company
“will continue to pursue all legal remedies available to
protect this valuable intellectual property,”  Bob Plishka , a
Dow spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 “We are disappointed with the verdict, but the final
outcome of the case is still uncertain, and we expect to
prevail,” said Greg Wilkinson, a Nova spokesman. He said “a
major issue regarding standing” has yet to be considered at a
nonjury trial.  
 Dow contended in its complaint that Nova imported
polyethylene products since 2003 in violation of the patents.
Nova is owned by the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. It was bought by Abu
Dhabi interests last year.  
 The case is Dow Chemical Co., v. Nova Chemicals Corp.,
05-cv-00737, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Books-A-Million Sued for Infringing Illustrator’s Copyright  
 Books-A-Million Inc. , a 200-store book retailer based in
Birmingham, Alabama, was sued for copyright infringement by an
illustrator from Cuyahoga County, Ohio.  
 Donna Catanese said she was hired to produce illustrations
for a book “Christmas Pageant,” to be produced by Cliff Road
Books. She produced 16 illustrations, which were delivered to
Cliff Road and accepted for publication, she said in the
complaint filed June 11 in federal court in Chicago.  
 Her agent, Wilkinson Studios, billed the publisher for the
illustrations in July 2009. Books-A-Million acquired the book in
November, according to court papers.  
 Despite having been sent an invoice and notice of
Catanese’s copyright to the images in the book, the illustrator
hasn’t been paid, she said in her complaint. She’s sought
payment from Cliff Road Books, from its successor, Crane Hill
Publishers Inc., and from Books-A-Million, according to her
pleadings.  
 She said that by virtue of publishing the book, the
publisher has “wrongly, falsely and illegally represented”
that it owns the copyright to the image. Because the company
hadn’t paid for the images, it wasn’t transferred the copyright
and therefore had no right to reproduce her images, Cantanese
said.  
 Cantanese asked the court for money damages “in an amount
sufficient to place the defendant on notice that it will be less
expensive to simply obey the copyright laws,” an award of
profits derived from the sale of “Christmas Pageant,” and
litigation costs and attorney fees.  
 She is represented by David C. Hurst of Bruggeman, Hurst &
Associates PC of Mokena, Illinois.  
 The case is Wilkinson Studios Inc. v. Cliff Road Books
Inc., 1:10-cv-03639, U.S. District Court, District of Illinois
(Chicago).  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 BMW Claims Texas Auto Dealer Infringes Marks in Ads, on Web  
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars, sued a Texas auto dealer for trademark
infringement.  
 Forza Motorcars Ltd. , of Texarkana, Texas, is accused of
using the German automaker’s trademarks on a website and in its
print advertisements without authorization.  
 Despite having been sent two cease-and-desist letters,
Forza still displays a BMW trademark on its website and
continues to place print ads that also use the mark without
authorization, BMW said in the complaint filed June 15 in
federal court in Tyler, Texas.  
 BMW said Forza has never had an affiliation with BMW, and
has never provided any services for the German automaker or its
subsidiaries, according to court papers.  
 The Texas auto dealer is accused of causing confusion in
the marketplace and is attempting to trade on the goodwill BMW
has acquired over the years. Its unauthorized use of the marks
makes it impossible for BMW to control the quality and goods the
Forza sells under BMW’s name, the company said in its complaint.  
 BMW asked the court to bar Forza from any unauthorized use
of the company’s marks and logos, and asks for an award of
profits Forza derived from its alleged infringement.  
 The German automaker also asked for money damges, attorney
fees and litigation costs, and requested the court award
additional damages to punish Forza for its actions.  
 BMW is represented by  John G. Froemming  of Washinton’s
 Howrey LLP , and S. Calvin Capshaw, Elizabeth L. DeRieux and D.
Jeffrey Dambin of Longview, Texas-based  Capshaw DeRieux LLP .  
 The case is BMW of North America LLC v. Forza Motorcars
Ltd., 6:10-cv-00286, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Texas (Tyler).  
 Orange Dresses at World Cup Spark Marketing Dispute With FIFA  
 FIFA , soccer’s world governing body, questioned a group of
female soccer fans June 14 after they donned orange dresses that
are part of a promotional campaign for a Dutch beer during a
World Cup game.  
 The 27 South Africans and three Dutch citizens were accused
of so-called ambush marketing and were held after the
Netherlands’ opening tournament game against Denmark in
Johannesburg. Orange is the official color of the Dutch team.  
 “There was clear ambush marketing activity by a Dutch
brewing company,” FIFA spokesman Nicolas Maingot told a news
conference in Johannesburg yesterday. “We are looking into all
available legal remedies against this brewery.”  
 The company, Bavaria NV, employed a similar ploy during the
last World Cup in Germany when it encouraged fans to go in
“Leeuwenhosen,” orange lederhosen with a tail and the brewer’s
brand on it. Supporters were ordered to take the trousers off
before entering stadiums. The orange dresses in the latest
dispute are free when people buy the beer.  
 “We didn’t put our name on the dress this time,” Peer
Swinkels, who sits on Bavaria’s board and oversees its
marketing, said by phone yesterday. “We decided to accommodate
FIFA in order not to get our consumers in any trouble.”  
 Sponsors have paid about $1.2 billion for the right to be
associated with the World Cup, sport’s most-watched event. FIFA
lawyers have filed more than 2,500 cases globally against
parties it accuses of ambush marketing.  
 The Netherlands asked the South African government to
explain why its nationals were detained.  
 “We are not aware of any southern African legislation
stating wearing an orange dress is a ground for arrest,” Aad
Meijer, a Hague-based spokesman for the Dutch Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, said by phone. “They were held for a couple of
hours in and near the stadium and questioned.”  
 Vishnu Naidoo, a spokesman for the South African Police
Service, said FIFA officials handled the detention and that the
police were not involved.  
 Lieshout, Netherlands-based Bavaria said that while it had
commissioned the dresses for a promotional campaign, they bore
none of the company’s branding. It did pay for two of the women
to fly to South Africa and Sylvie van der Vaart, the wife of
Dutch midfielder Rafael van der Vaart, is the public face of
Bavaria’s latest advertising campaign.  
 “I think it is ludicrous that FIFA can set out what to
wear,” Swinkels said. FIFA hasn’t contacted the brewer, he
said.  
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV  is the official beer supplier for
the tournament.  
 Three Arrested in Indian for Infringing Salt Company’s Marks  
 Following a complaint from Indo Brine Industries of
Ganadhidham, India, police in Rajkot, India, arrested three
people for trademark infringement, the Times of India reported.  
 The owner of Ahir Salt Works in Gandhidham and the two
owners of a warehouse in Rajkot were accused of infringing Indo
Brine Industries’ “Dandi Salt” and “Dandi Namak” trademarks,
according to the newspaper.  
 Police raided the warehouse and seized salt packaged with
an infringing trademark, according to the Times.  
 The warehouse has been sealed, and police are conducting
additional investigation of the infringement allegations, the
newspaper reported.  
 Adidas ‘Jabulani’ Bringing Some Teams Anything but Rejoicing  
 Although “Jabulani” means “rejoice” in the Zulu
language, the soccer ball with that name seems to be bringing
anything but joy to some of the teams playing in the FIFA World
Cup competition in South Africa.  
 Goalkeepers are saying  Adidas Ag’s Jabulani  is unsteady and
unpredictable in the air.  Adidas , which is sponsoring the
world’s most-watched sporting event, said the players have had
enough time to get used to the ball, which was released at the
beginning of the year. The ball fits the criteria laid down by
soccer’s governing body, FIFA, Adidas spokesman Erik van Leeuwen
said June 13.  
 The ball is made from eight “thermally bonded 3D panels,
creating a perfect sphere, replacing previous models with flat
panels, according to FIFA’s website. The ball has an aerodynamic
profile enhancing control and stabilizing flight, it said.  
 Bayer AG , the inventor of Aspirin, supplied adhesives and
coating for Jabulani, the company said.  
 Adidas registered the name with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office in May, according to the patent office
database. The Herzogenaurach, Germany-based company applied for
the trademark in September 2008, and specified in its
application that it be used for soccer balls.  
 Those who are unhappy with the results of games played with
Jabulani balls may turn to for consolation to a Jabulani of a
different kind. According to the patent office database, a South
African company by that name registered Jabulani in July 2005 to
be used with wines, distilled spirits and liquers.  
 Jabulani wines, marketed by  Cape Coastal Vintners  of
Belleville, South Africa, are imported to the U.S. by  Hemingway
& Hale  of Rosswell, Georgia. The  five Jabulani wines  are all
named varietals: sauvignon blanc, chardonnay, cabernet
sauvignon, shiraz and pinotage.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        