-- 'Texas Boy' Investor Can't Resist Taste of New Argentine Winery
-- Ryan Flinn
-- 2009-12-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-31/-texas-boy-investor-can-t-resist-taste-of-new-argentine-winery.html

          
          
             Michael Brochu, chief executive
officer of Global Market Insite Inc., is always looking for new
investments. So when a friend called with an opportunity, Brochu
was ready to listen.  
 "He said, 'How about a vineyard in Argentina?'" recalled
Brochu, whose company conducts online surveys for market-
research firms. "Of course, I hung up the phone."  
 Brochu, a self-described "Texas boy" with about 700
bottles of wine in his Seattle home, eventually came around to
the idea of being a part-time winery owner. Now the 56-year-old
financier, who has sold three companies with a total value of
about $1 billion, is waiting to taste the fruit of his latest
investment.  
 "Never in my wildest dreams would I have thought about
owning a vineyard," he said.  
 Brochu's vineyard is part of a venture called The Vines of
Mendoza in Argentina's Uco Valley. An investment of $150,000
gets you three acres to plant your choice of wine grapes. You
also get as much or as little help as you want from a team of
local experts, including veteran winemaker Santiago Achaval of
Achaval-Ferrer in Mendoza.  
 So far the enterprise has 65 investors, said Mike Evans,
the company's founder and CEO.  
 Malbec Grape  
 Evans, 44, was executive director of the Cellular
Telecommunications Industry Association Foundation and chief
operating officer of Rock the Vote before joining John Kerry's
2004 presidential campaign. He and business partner Pablo
Gimenez Riili started raising funds for the project in 2005 and
completed the purchase of a 920-acre property the following
year.  
 Investors can choose from 20 varietals, although more than
half the acres have been dedicated to malbec, Argentina's
signature grape, which is used to make lush, dark red wines.  
 About 80 percent of the members are "hobbyists," Evans
said, while the rest are looking to sell their wine commercially
after bottling.  
 Argentina has become a darling of wine critics and drinkers
because of the outstanding quality of its wines and their
affordable prices. (There are great values in the $20 range.)  
 Exports to the U.S. increased 29 percent in value to $140.5
million over the first nine months of the year, according to
Wines of Argentina, which represents more than 170 wineries that
account for 95 percent of the country's wine exports.  
 Grapefruit, Apple  
 While malbecs have received much of the attention and
praise, a bigger star may be the white Argentine wines made from
the torrontes grape, which produces wines with amazing aromatics
and crisp acidity.  
 During a Wines of Argentina tasting in San Francisco in
October, I sampled bottles from dozens of producers and was most
impressed with the range of styles made from torrontes.  
 Among the scents were white lilies, honeysuckle, mint and
tangerine. The flavors included citrus, grapefruit and green
apple, while the styles ranged from bone dry to candy sweet.  
 Paul Leary, president of Napa Valley-based Blackbird
Vineyards, was one of the first 10 investors in Vines of
Mendoza. He said the country's cheap exchange rate -- 3.80
Argentine pesos are worth $1 -- allows producers to spend more
to make "world-class wine."  
 'Sex Appeal'  
 While Blackbird charges $90 a bottle for three of its Napa
Valley merlot-based blends, the company's Argentine-produced
malbecs will cost about $20 and a torrontes will sell for about
$14 when they're released in 2010, Leary said.  
 "That is where the market is -- not in high double-digits
or triple-digits," he said.  
 The desire to own part of a vineyard is spurring more
businesses like The Vines of Mendoza, said Sherman Potvin,
chief executive officer and founder of Luxury Fractional Guide,
an online site for people interested in partial ownership of
high-end properties or businesses.  
 Potvin said oenophile investors can choose from vineyards
in Italy, France, Germany and California, as well as Argentina.  
 "It has a lot of sex appeal," he said of owning a stake
in a winery. "It's very romantic."  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        