-- Frederick's of Hollywood and Movie Star to merge
-- 
-- Tue Dec 19, 2006 11:27am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/19/businesspro-fredericks-moviestar-dc-idUSN1926676920061219

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - FOH Holdings Inc., the parent company 
of Frederick's of Hollywood Inc., and apparel maker Movie Star 
Inc. MSI.A said on Tuesday they agreed to merge in a deal 
that allows the lingerie retailer to become a publicly traded 
company without an initial public offering. 

  Shares of Movie Star, which supplies women's sleepwear, 
robes and underwear to retailers such as Federated Department 
Stores Inc. FD.N and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ), rose 20 
percent, or 26 cents, to $1.55 after the news.  Under terms of the deal, known as a reverse merger, 
Frederick's shareholders will get 23.7 million shares of newly 
issued Movie Star stock, worth $30.6 million, based on Monday's 
closing price of $1.29.  Shareholders of privately held Frederick's will then own 60 
percent of the combined company, which will be a publicly 
traded holding company called Frederick's of Hollywood Group 
Inc.  "The strength in this relationship really lies in the fact 
that we will work together on our growth platform and that we 
will be provided access to the capital market," Frederick's 
Chief Executive Linda LoRe said in an interview.  On an operating basis, the companies will remain separate, 
LoRe said, adding that Frederick's will not sell its sexy 
merchandise in the stores Movie Star supplies. Both companies 
will report to the chairman of the new holding company, a 
position that has not yet been named.  The new company will seek to refinance both companies' 
existing bank facilities and Frederick's term debt on more 
favorable terms, the companies said, adding that they plan to 
open 50 new Frederick's stores over the next three years.  In the first half of 2007, LoRe said the company will open 
one store in Las Vegas and two in Florida.  Movie Star shareholders also have rights to purchase $20 
million of new Movie Star shares.  Frederick's, which emerged from bankruptcy in 2003, was 
founded by Frederick Mellinger in 1946. It pioneered black 
lingerie in the United States as well as push-up and padded 
bras.