-- Euronext shareholders to vote on NYSE merger
-- By  Gilbert Kreijger
-- Mon Dec 18, 2006 8:17pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/19/businesspro-euronext-egm-dc-idUSTON90438320061219

 

 AMSTERDAM  (Reuters) - Euronext ENXT.PA shareholders are 
due to approve a $14 billion plan to merge with the New York 
Stock Exchange NYX.N and create the first transatlantic 
bourse. But some opponents may cause heated discussions at a 
meeting on Tuesday. 

  An approval would remove one of the final hurdles to the 
creation of a global exchange after a two-year industry battle 
to consolidate to cut costs and increase execution speed.  U.S. exchange Nasdaq ( NDAQ.O ) last week launched a $5.3 
billion hostile bid for the London Stock Exchange ( LSE.L ).  Paris-based Euronext committed to merge with New York Stock 
Exchange operator NYSE Group in June after rebuffing a rival 
takeover offer from Deutsche Boerse ( DB1Gn.DE ), incurring the 
wrath of some of its shareholders as well as top European 
politicians who favored a pan-European combination.  In the absence of new Franco-German talks, key shareholders 
such as U.S. hedge Fund Atticus and French bank Societe 
Generale ( SOGN.PA ) voiced support for the NYSE plan. Atticus 
and SocGen respectively own about 10 percent and 3 percent of 
Euronext.  But regulatory concerns meant several shareholders still 
oppose the deal.  A risk, albeit limited, that the merger will be voted down 
or ultimately fail showed in the stock, which on Monday traded 
at a discount of 5.7 percent to the value of the offer -- a 
smaller discount than several months ago.  Shares in Euronext, which include the Paris, Amsterdam, 
Lisbon and Brussels bourses as well as London's Euronext.Liffe 
derivates market, closed 0.3 percent lower at 90.65 on Monday.  The authorities which regulate Euronext markets and the 
Dutch Finance Ministry have given preliminary approval for the 
merger but said some extra guarantees regarding possible 
spillover of U.S. laws and regulations, amongst other issues, 
were necessary.  Several shareholders and user groups have expressed 
concerns about U.S. regulatory spillover into European markets.  Franco-Belgian bank Dexia DEXI.PA said on Monday it would 
vote against the merger. The deal would go against Euronext's 
original vision of a pan-European bourse, and would impose a 
U.S. regulatory "hegemony," it said.  Dutch asset managers Robeco said last week that Dutch 
shareholders owning nearly 3 percent of Euronext could vote 
'No' to the merger if nothing was done to address spillover 
concerns.  Dutch VEUO, which represents listed companies in the 
Netherlands, also said additional conditions were necessary to 
mitigate possible regulations' spillover.  The deal offers shareholders the right to exchange their 
shares for 0.98 of the new NYSE Euronext stock and 21.32 euros 
in cash, valuing the bid at 95.53 euros per Euronext share, up 
35 percent since the merger plan was announced.  NYSE shareholders will vote on Wednesday on the merger 
plan. They are widely expected to approve the deal, which is 
key to the U.S. group's strategy to diversify its product base 
and geographic reach.