-- Nortel signs $2-billion supply deal with Verizon
-- By Wojtek Dabrowski
-- Tue Dec 19, 2006 11:22am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/19/businesspro-nortel-verizon-dc-idUSWNAS601020061219

 

 TORONTO  (Reuters) - Canadian telecoms equipment giant 
Nortel Networks Corp. NT.TONT.N has signed a $2-billion 
supply deal with Verizon Wireless ( VZ.N ) to help the cellphone 
company cope with an explosion in demand for mobile broadband 
Internet access. 

  The five-year agreement is aimed at expanding the quality 
and reach of Verizon's network in the United States as users 
clamor for online video, games and music, the companies said on 
Tuesday.  "Consumers expect more from their mobile devices than voice 
communication and text messaging," Richard Lowe, Nortel's 
mobility and converged core networks president, said in a 
statement.  "Nortel is making it simple for Verizon Wireless to expand 
its network to meet this demand and to competitively drive new 
services to market," he said.  Toronto-based Nortel is betting that demand for online 
media and gaming will push the Internet to the brink in terms 
of capacity, prompting both wireline and wireless network 
expansions from service providers such as Verizon.  Billions of dollars are at stake for equipment suppliers 
like Nortel and its rivals, as users watch movies and download 
music on desktops and laptops, as well as on cellphones and 
portable e-mail devices.  Under the deal, Verizon plans to deploy additional CDMA2000 
radio base stations, switching and optical network technology, 
along with related equipment and services.  CDMA, or code division multiple access, is a type of 
wireless technology standard used by a number of cellphone 
carriers around the world.  "It's a nice win because there's been a lot of concern 
around the CDMA infrastructure market over the last couple of 
years that we're about to drop off a cliff," said Pacific Crest 
Securities analyst Tim Daubenspeck. "That's not true -- the 
CDMA infrastructure market will be steady for the next couple 
of years."  He said while the newly consolidated Alcatel-Lucent 
ALU.PA is the leader in supplying CDMA equipment, Nortel is 
the No. 2 player.  "For Nortel to grow with the market, they need to sign 
these types of deals," Daubenspeck said.  Nortel's shares advanced 2.7 percent, or 74 Canadian cents, 
to C$28.23 in morning trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  ($1=$1.16 Canadian)