-- UPDATE 3-American Apparel to be bought by Endeavor
-- 
-- Tue Dec 19, 2006 2:27pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/19/endeavor-american-apparel-idUSN1924427320061219

 

  (Adds details throughout) 

 NEW YORK  Dec 19 (Reuters) - American Apparel, known for
its casual cotton clothing and provocative advertising, agreed
to be bought by Endeavor Acquisition Corp. EDA.A in a deal
that will effectively allow the retailer to list shares on an
exchange without doing a public offering.  American Apparel Chief Executive Dov Charney, who founded
the company, will remain CEO, and the combined entity will
operate as American Apparel.  The apparel firm, also known for making its clothing in Los
Angeles when most companies have moved their manufacturing
overseas, is expected to trade publicly on the American Stock
Exchange or another national stock exchange, though a time
frame was not specified.  The $244 million deal with Endeavor, a publicly traded
company formed specifically to make acquisitions, will help
fund the garment maker's expansion, the companies said on
Tuesday.  American Apparel plans to have as many as 800 stores in the
United States and abroad, a spokeswoman said. The retailer
declined to give a time frame for the expansion. It currently
operates 143 stores in 11 countries.  "We look forward to ... (helping) the company achieve
growth through the access to capital this transaction
provides," Endeavor President Jonathan Ledecky said in a
statement.  Endeavor shares rose 92 cents, or 12 percent, to $8.50 in
afternoon trade on the American Stock Exchange.  Ledecky has led a slew of business initiatives, including
the launch of a small business office supply company, U.S.
Office Products, in 1994. That company later filed for
bankruptcy after Ledecky left.  In the late 1990s he also headed building management
company Building One Service Corp.  Endeavor went public in December 2005. The IPO, including
an overallotment option, generated about $130 million.  Special purpose acquisition companies are often called
blank check companies because shareholders don't know what the
company plans to buy when it first goes public.  American Apparel will get 32.3 million shares of restricted
Endeavor stock. Endeavor shares closed at $7.58 on Monday.  Endeavor will also assume $110 million of debt, create a
merger bonus pool of $2.5 million, and reserve as many as 2.7
million additional shares for American Apparel employees.  GAP COMPETITION?  American Apparel calls itself the largest garment factory
and T-shirt manufacturer in the United States. Sales for 2006
are expected to be $275 million.  "This is an exciting time for American Apparel -- acquiring
the necessary financial foundation will give us the opportunity
to realize our bigger dreams," Charney said in a statement.  Charney's leadership at American Apparel has been
challenged by accusations of sexual misconduct.  Four women sued the company, alleging that it created a
sexually hostile work environment. One suit was dismissed
without a settlement, two were combined and settled, and one is
still pending.  A spokeswoman for American Apparel, Tracey Belko of the
public relations firm Sloane & Co., said the last suit "has no
merit."  While small, American Apparel is seen as a possible rival
to Gap Inc. ( GPS.N ), which operates the Gap chain of casual
clothing stores in the United States and abroad. As of Oct. 28,
Gap operated 1,338 stores in North America.  In a similar transaction, the parent of Frederick's of
Hollywood, the lingerie company that introduced push-up bras to
American women in the 1950s, said on Tuesday that it would
merge with apparel maker Movie Star Inc. MSI.A in a deal that
will let it become a publicly traded company.  Shareholders of privately held Frederick's will own 60
percent of the combined company, which will be a holding
company called Frederick's of Hollywood Group Inc. It will
trade under Movie Star's stock symbol on the American Stock
Exchange.
 (Additional reporting by  Martinne Geller )






