-- UPDATE 3-Casino firm Melco PBL raises $1.14 bln in U.S. IPO
-- 
-- Mon Dec 18, 2006 11:38pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/19/melcopbl-ipo-idUSN1821920220061219

 

  (Adds details) 

  By Yung Kim NEW YORK  Dec 18 (Reuters) - Macau Casino operator Melco
PBL Entertainment (Macau) Ltd. has raked in more than $1.14
billion with an initial public offering priced above range in a
sizzling U.S. market for brand-new equities.  The joint venture run by the sons of Australian media
magnate Kerry Packer and Macau casino tycoon Stanley Ho plans
to spend the proceeds of the share sale on new casinos in Macau
-- the only place in gambling-mad China where casinos are
legal.  But many analysts are sceptical that Melco PBL can mimic
the huge success of U.S. gaming firm Las Vegas Sands ( LVS.N ),
whose Sands Macau casino is hitting around 30 percent growth in
operating income this year.  A Morgan Stanley research note last week said Melco PBL's
planned City of Dreams and Crown Macau casinos would probably
suffer from delays and soaring construction costs.  Building of a $10 billion "neon alley" of hotels, shopping
centers and casinos, called Cotai Strip, has led to shortages
of labour and materials in Macau.  A jump in competition in the next couple of years has also
raised the prospect of falling profit margins. Daily revenue
per gaming table in Macau has already dropped to $12,000 this
year from $22,382 in 2002, when Stanley Ho's four-decade
monopoly on Macau casinos expired, according to Citigroup
analysts.  But investors in Melco PBL's IPO are betting on a long-term
Macau story, and China's economy, which is growing at an annual
rate of about 10 percent, analysts said.  "Atlantic City is an almost $5 billion market and it has
only 10 million people within a three-hour drive," said
Lawrence Klatzkin, an analyst with Jefferies and Co.  By comparison, Macau is a $5.5 billion market with 100
million people living within a three-hour drive, and 1 billion
within a three-hour flight.  Melco International Development ( 0200.HK ), headed by
Lawrence Ho, and Australian media group Publishing and
Broadcasting Ltd. PBL.AX, run by James Packer since his
father's death a year ago, formed the 50-50 Melco PBL venture
in 2005.  "GOOD BET"  After a string of successful floats from China since Sept.
1, investors snatched up Melco PBL's offer of 60.25 million
American Depositary Shares, which had risen from 53 million.  The Hong Kong market has also been in the throes of IPO
mania this year, driven by listings of Chinese companies.  The offering sold for $19 per share compared with a
forecast of $16-$18, an underwriter said on Monday. The price
gave the company an initial market capitalization of $7.3
billion. Each ADS, due to trade on the Nasdaq under the symbol
"MPEL" ( MPEL.O ), represents three ordinary shares.  Macau, a former Portuguese colony with a reputation for
massage parlours and triad gangs, mostly attracts hard-core
gamblers who eschew hotel rooms to bet all night.  But Las Vegas Sands, U.S. rival Wynn Resorts ( WYNN.O ) and
Melco PBL hope to turn the 27 sq km territory into a
Vegas-style entertainment center attracting conference goers
and families.  Subsidiary Melco PBL Gaming (Macau) Ltd. bought a gaming
subconcession from Las Vegas casino mogul Steve Wynn for $900
million to become one of only six companies authorized by the
Macau government to operate casinos.  "(Las Vegas Sands) spent $265 million on its first casino
in its first year and made a 120 percent return," Klatzkin
said. "When you get those kind of numbers I think it's a pretty
good bet if you can build a decent place. "  Melco PBL's Crown Macau Hotel Casino is targeted to open in
the second quarter of 2007, while the first phase of the City
of Dreams project is targeted for a late 2008 opening. The firm
is also planning a third casino, for which it needs to pay site
acquisition costs.  Underwriters led by Credit Suisse ( CSGN.VX ), Citigroup
( C.N ) and UBS ( UBSN.VX ) have the option to buy more than 9
million ADSs to cover over-allotments, according to the
underwriter.  Boosted by China's robust growth prospects, a few Chinese
companies helped shake the U.S. IPO market out of its summer
doldrums.  ADSs of budget hotel group Home Inns & Hotel Management
Inc. ( HMIN.O ) rose as much as 72 percent on their October
debut, while those of New Oriental Education & Technology Group
Inc. ( EDU.N ) rose 54 percent on their opening in September.
 (Additional reporting by  Dominic Whiting  in Hong Kong)


