-- Sinopec Group Profit Rises on Oil Refining Business
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-03-10T10:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-10/sinopec-group-profit-rises-on-oil-refining-business-update1-.html

          
          
             China Petrochemical Corp., the
nation’s largest refiner known as Sinopec Group, increased its
profit last year after a “relatively good” performance by its
oil-processing business, the company’s senior advisor said.  
 The parent of Hong Kong-listed  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (600028)  gained from “moderate crude  oil prices ” and a revision
in the government’s fuel-pricing system that assured a profit
for refiners, Zhou Yuan, a former vice president at the group,
told reporters in Beijing today. He declined to give figures.  
 Crude oil prices on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange fell
about 38 percent last year to an average of $62 a barrel,
cutting costs at Sinopec Group that relies on imports for about
80 percent of its raw-material needs.  
 “If crude oil prices average about $70 a barrel this year,
our refining business will perform as well,” Zhou said.  
 Crude oil for April delivery was at $81.44 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 6:17
p.m. Singapore time.  
 More than half of the group’s refining units are capable of
processing low-quality crude oil, which would reduce costs
further, according to Zhou.  
 It currently costs the company’s Zhenhai refinery, the
nation’s largest, about 120  yuan  ($17.58) to process one metric
ton of crude, he said. “The number is competitive among our
global peers,” Zhou said.  
 The group’s refining business is making “marginal
profits” at current crude prices of about $80 a barrel, he said.  
 Puguang Gas Field  
 China Petroleum will officially start operating in May a
natural  gas pipeline  linking its Puguang field in the
southwestern province of Sichuan to eastern China, Zhou said.
About 4 billion cubic meters of gas will be supplied this year
from Puguang, he said.  
 Puguang and its surrounding fields hold 489 billion cubic
meters of proven gas reserves, according to Zhou.  
 Sinopec Group’s 2010 crude oil output may rise slightly,
Zhou said, without giving details. The company will continue to
seek opportunities to expand overseas, he said, without
elaborating.  
 -- Wang Ying . Editors: Ryan Woo.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        