-- Cash Binge to End as Central Banks Jive to Exit: Mark Gilbert
-- Mark Gilbert
-- 2009-10-07T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-10-07/cash-binge-to-end-as-central-banks-jive-to-exit-mark-gilbert.html

          
          
             For bingers who claim that they’re
not ready to leave the party yet, central bankers are jiving
hard to convince us that they know where the exits are. My bet
is that they’ll bail sooner than financial markets think.  
 But hey, what a swell party this is! Official interest
rates at or near record lows almost everywhere; bond yields
signaling a benign inflation outlook; equity markets roaring
ahead; emerging markets on fire; and commodity prices pointing
to a V-shaped recovery that seemed impossible as the year
started. Cheers!  
 The better the shindig, the harder it is to know when to
leave. Depart too soon, and you might miss out on a whole heap
of fun. Dance until dawn is peeping through the curtains, and
the hangover could be crippling. Central bankers, though, are
starting to shuffle nearer the door, signaling to each other
that it might be time to retire gracefully before tables get
danced on, clothing discarded, and reputations trashed.  
 “We will need to remove our very accommodative policy
sooner rather than later,” Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President Thomas Hoenig said in a speech this week. Fed Governor
Kevin Warsh said last month the U.S. central bank may need to
raise interest rates “before it is obvious that it is
necessary, possibly with greater force than is customary.”  
 Learning Curve  
 The last time central bankers got financial markets
inebriated on free money, the aftershock was akin to the next-
day trauma suffered by a teenager who thought imbibing a stolen
bottle of cherry brandy would be a fun way to spend an evening.
The Fed must have learned its lesson about keeping borrowing
costs too low for too long. Mustn’t it?  
 Australia has already skipped the revels. This week, it
became the first among the Group of 20 nations to drive up
borrowing costs since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September 2008 exacerbated the crisis. The central bank
announced a surprise quarter-point boost in its overnight cash-
rate target to 3.25 percent.  
 Significantly, the Reserve Bank of Australia did so even
while the country’s unemployment rate is stuck at a six-year
high of 5.8 percent -- a lesson for anyone who thinks
joblessness will guarantee the status quo. Other central banks
might be similarly inclined.  
 “I don’t think that is a showstopper if the unemployment
rate hasn’t starting falling yet,” Fed Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said this month. Even though the Fed
hasn’t previously boosted borrowing costs while workers were
still losing jobs, “there is a first time for everything.”  
 Rate Futures  
 The futures market is convinced that interest rates are
going nowhere fast. The three-month dollar contract for
settlement in December 2010 shows a rate of about 1.6 percent;
while that’s way more than the current 0.3 percent cost of
borrowing the U.S. currency for 90 days, the futures rate has
been ticking down on almost a daily basis for two months, and is
down almost a full point since the first week of August.  
 There’s a similar picture in other markets. The December
2010 euro contract, for example, has tumbled to about 1.8
percent from 2.6 percent three months ago; the British pound
version is down to 2.15 percent from 3.47 percent on June 11.
Traders are scaling back their rate expectations even as the
equity market suggests the global economy is mending.  
 New Normal  
 That could be a mistake. Central banks will find it hard to
keep beating up on investment bankers for the sins of the
financial industry without policy makers also showing that they
have examined their consciences and found room for remorse. A
swifter than predicted return to a more normal monetary-policy
environment would be one way of proving that the lessons of the
bubble years have been learned.  
 The U.S. has already scaled back some of its market support
mechanisms. Last month, the Fed said it would reduce the Term
Securities Lending Facility to $50 billion from $75 billion, and
the Term Auction Facility to $50 billion from its $900 billion
peak. Banks have repaid more than $70 billion of the cash
extended through the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program.  
 With liquidity seeming to improve, the temptation for
central bankers to water down the punchbowl, if not remove it
completely, will increase. The one financial bet that does seem
misguided for the next year or so is to anticipate that there
will be no change in policies, no removal of stimulus, and a
smooth glide back to the good old days.  
 So, don’t be fooled by the clinking glasses in the stock
market and the soothing beats in bonds. The music could come to
a sudden halt if the central banks, who have been the life and
soul of the recovery party, all rush for the exits at once.  
 (Mark Gilbert is the London bureau chief and a columnist
for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Mark Gilbert in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        