-- Russia May Resume Turkmen Gas Imports as Europe Bids for Fuel
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2009-10-07T14:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-10-07/russia-may-resume-turkmen-gas-imports-as-europe-bids-for-fuel.html

          
          
             Russia  agreed to resume natural gas
purchases from Turkmenistan as  Europe  looks to secure fuel
supplies from the Central Asian state for its planned Nabucco
pipeline.  
 Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  and his Turkmen
counterpart Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov reached “a political
agreement to resume deliveries” last month, Kremlin spokeswoman
Natalya Timakova told reporters in Moscow today. OAO Gazprom,
Russia’s natural gas export monopoly, is now working on a
contract with Turkmenistan, she said.  
 Timakova did not provide the timing, volume or the price of
the contract.  Sergei Kupriyanov , spokesman for Moscow-based
Gazprom, wasn’t immediately available for comment when called by
 Bloomberg News  on his mobile phone.  
 Gazprom stopped buying Turkmen gas after an explosion in
April shut the main export pipeline for the Central  Asia ’s
biggest gas producer and caused it $1 billion a month in losses,
according to Austin, Texas-based intelligence company Stratfor.
Turkmenistan blamed Gazprom for the blast by abruptly reducing
pressure on the link and called for new export routes to Europe
and Asia. Russia denied causing the explosion.  
 “If Europe were to secure Turkmenistan for the proposed
Nabucco pipeline, it would destroy the commercial case for
Russia’s planned South Stream link,”  Chris Weafer , chief
strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. said. “The explosion was
heard as a party popper by Nabucco’s backers.”  
 Bypassing Russia  
 The Nabucco pipeline has been designed to bypass Russia and
carry 31 billion cubic meters of Caspian region fuel a year to
European markets. Europe is seeking to reduce dependence on
Russia, which delivers a quarter of its gas, and avoid supply
disruptions such as a two-week cutoff in January this year
during a price dispute between Gazprom and Ukraine, a transit
nation.  
 Europe has been negotiating for supplies with Caspian
countries including Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan, as well as
 Iraq . Gazprom is signing supply contracts with regional
producers to keep its grip on exports as it plans to build the
South Stream pipeline with  Italy ’s Eni SpA by 2015.  
 The agreement benefits Turkmenistan as Russia remains the
largest consumer for its gas, said  Valery Nesterov , an oil
analyst at Moscow-based Troika Dialog. Russia is paying a “high
price” for keeping Turkmenistan under its wing, Nesterov said.
Gazprom hasn’t publicly disclosed the price it paid for Turkmen
gas this year, before supplies were halted.  
 ‘Lower’ Price  
 Gazprom agreed to pay $300 per 1,000 cubic meters of
Turkmen gas late last year and since April has been trying to
renegotiate its contract to cut price or volume by 60 percent,
the newspaper Kommersant said on Sept. 22, without saying where
it got the information.  
 After paying about $4.5 billion for 12 billion cubic meters
of Turkmen gas in the first quarter, Gazprom may buy an
additional 5 billion to 10 billion cubic meters this year “at a
considerably lower” price to minimize losses, Nesterov said.  
 Gazprom may buy from 10 billion to 30 billion cubic meters
next year, he said.  
 Turkmenistan  produced 66.1 billion cubic meters of gas
last year, according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World
Energy. Last year, it tripled its proved gas reserves, the
world’s fourth-largest according to BP, to 7.94 trillion cubic
meters.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Kirkham at 
 ckirkham@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        