-- ‘Good Wife’ Defends Loonies, Cozies Up to Dobbs: Dave Shiflett
-- B y   D a v e   S h i f l e t t
-- 2010-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/-good-wife-defends-conspiracy-nut-cozies-up-to-lou-dobbs-dave-shiflett.html
I’d hate to take on “The Good
Wife.”  The series, which airs on CBS Tuesday nights at 10 p.m. New
York time, features a formidable cast that includes two of the
most compelling characters on television.  Julianna Margulies returns as Alicia Florrick, a defense
attorney so attractive -- sharp, slender, and beautiful -- I’d
consider committing a felony just to hang out with her.  Alan Cumming, who plays political operative Eli Gold, is so
slick and snaky it’s a miracle he doesn’t slide right out of his
pinstripe suits.  Both characters, and the actors playing them, help put this
show in a class by itself.  Alicia, to be sure, has first-hand knowledge of the
criminal element in the person of her husband, Peter (Chris
Noth), the disgraced state’s attorney whose sex and corruption
scandal landed him in the jug. This season he’s free and back on
the campaign trail as yet another politico’s sex scandal
threatens to remind voters of Peter’s past indiscretions (with a
little help from his opponent).  While Peter wanted to steer clear of the low road, Eli knew
trouble was coming. This week it arrives big time in the form of
a television ad featuring a cheesy blonde purring about how
Peter wants tough sentences -- “the stiffer the better.”  Dirty Tricksters  We’re reminded that in the dirty tricks department, Richard
Nixon has many rivals.  The series floats between the worlds of politics and the
law, with lawyers coming off better, largely thanks to Alicia.
She takes on tough cases, though not always on behalf of
sympathetic clients. In the opener she coached a self-defending
murder suspect deploying a “unicorn” defense -- the government
had set him up, he crazily argued -- and got him easy time,
despite believing he was guilty.  This week, she finds herself defending a sympathetic murder
suspect in a military court overseen by a female judge with all
the charm of a Claymore mine. “If I order you to be unbiased,
will you be?” the judge asks a member of the court-martial
panel, who readily assents that her wish is most definitely his
command.  The case has several twists and turns and at the end you
want to give Alicia a big hug -- and maybe a big tip. As does
her mentor in the firm, Will Gardner (Josh Charles), who carries
a serious torch for her and vice-versa. Will seems a bit mousy
and cold, but he sure beats Peter.  Lou Dobbs!  Lou Dobbs visits the firm, playing his bombastic self and
likely reminding many viewers they’re glad he’s a bit scarce
these days. Law partner Diane Lockhart (Christine Baranski) is
no fan either, though she rejects Lou’s idea that she can’t
provide good legal advice, reminding him that she also
represents murderers.  He likes her reasoning, and perhaps her middle-aged good
looks, and they forge an alliance that may prove interesting.
Meantime, office investigator Kalinda Sharma (Archie Panjabi),
fills the screen with her dark fatal eyes and ever-suspicious
nature.  There is serious trouble afoot in this seriously terrific
show. Peter seems determined to recapture his good wife’s heart,
or at least some of the adjoining real estate, and last week
launched a romantic surprise attack in a steamy bathroom scene.  Alicia seems in danger of slipping back into his clutches.
Here’s hoping she dumps the creep. Being too good a wife may be
her only flaw.  Rating: *** 1/2  ( Dave Shiflett  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Dave Shiflett at  dshifl@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 