-- `High-Powered' Explosion Kills at Least Two People on Bangkok's Outskirts
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-10-05T14:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/-high-powered-explosion-kills-at-least-two-people-on-bangkok-s-outskirts.html
A bomb exploded on Bangkok’s
outskirts tonight, killing at least two people and wounding 10
others in the deadliest incident near the capital since the
military broke up anti-government protests in May.  Police are investigating who was responsible for the
“high-powered explosion” in Nonthaburi province, spokesman
 Prawut Thavornsiri  said. He gave the preliminary death toll as
two; media reports say three people died.  The blast follows a low-level bombing campaign since Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  called on the military to disperse
opponents after they rejected his offer of a November election.
Authorities have tracked suspects who have military and police
training, said  Panitan Wattanayagorn , a government spokesman,
without giving more details.  Authorities “should be able to contain some of the
restricted zones” like hospitals and palaces, Panitan said. In
“the outer rims they may need to step up security measures,”
he said.  Tonight’s explosion killed three people and injured 10
others, Post Today newspaper reported, citing the city’s
emergency medical center. The blast in the five-story building
shattered windows and started a fire, the Nation  reported .  Thailand’s cabinet today extended a six-month state of
emergency in Bangkok and surrounding provinces for three months.
One person was killed and about a dozen have been wounded in
grenade attacks in Bangkok since July, and soldiers are guarding
train stations and other public spaces to deter more attacks.  Abhisit is attending the Asia-Europe Meeting in Brussels.
He has faced protests since taking power in a 2008 parliamentary
vote after a court disbanded a party linked to former Prime
Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  for election fraud.  Most demonstration leaders are jailed, charged with
terrorism for gun battles and arson attacks during protests in
which 89 people died. Six of 25 leaders facing charges,
including Thaksin, are abroad. Nineteen other cases are with the
courts, with 16 of the defendants in custody.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  