-- `Underwater' Mortgages Threaten Rally in Jumbo Debt, Seer's Weingord Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-05T17:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/-underwater-mortgages-threaten-rally-in-jumbo-debt-seer-s-weingord-says.html
The rally in  securities  tied to the
biggest U.S. home loans probably has gone too far because
defaults are set to rise for properties worth less than the
mortgages on them, according to hedge-fund firm Seer Capital
Management LP.  “People wrongly feel more comfortable merely because it’s
higher-quality borrowers,” Seer Capital Chief Executive Officer
 Philip Weingord , the former head of global markets in the
Americas for Deutsche Bank AG, said in an interview at his
firm’s New York offices.  Jumbo-mortgage securities are one exception to the
attractiveness of securitized debt, said Weingord, whose firm
manages about $300 million. The bonds, including $1.4 trillion
 containing  loans without government backing that recorded
unprecedented gains as they recovered from all-time lows, remain
generally attractive because a limited number of investors are
dedicated to scouring the sector for opportunities compared to
 corporate bonds , he said.  Senior-ranked bonds tied to fixed-rate jumbo mortgages
issued from 2005 through 2007, when the home-loan securities
with the highest default rates were created, have generally
soared to more than 92 cents on the dollar from record lows near
60 cents in March 2009, according to data from Bank of America
Merrill Lynch and Barclays Capital.  Will Borrowers Pay?  Investors are banking on low defaults by borrowers who can
afford their mortgages even if the value of their properties has
fallen below the mortgage amount, called being underwater,
according to Seer Capital.  “If you’re wrong about the propensity to default, you’re
screwed,”  Richard D’Albert , Seer’s co-chief investment officer
and the former head of securitized products at Deutsche Bank,
said in the Sept. 30 interview.  Of $291 billion in prime-jumbo mortgages whose borrowers
have never been delinquent and whose loans are contained in
bonds, about 27 percent are underwater, according to data from
Austin, Texas-based Amherst Securities Group. An additional $47
billion of such loans are delinquent or have been, with 60
percent of non-performing debt owed by borrowers in negative
equity on the properties.  Jumbo mortgages are loans exceed limits for government-
supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to buy. The companies are
currently restricted to purchasing loans of less than $417,000
in most of the U.S., or those of as much as $729,750 in high-
cost areas.  Seer’s Other Picks  Seer Capital is buying senior securities backed by subprime
home loans and so-called option adjustable-rate mortgages,
D’Albert and Weingord said.  Option ARMs allow borrowers to pay less than the interest
they owe each month, adding the unpaid amount to the overall
mortgage balance. The choice may raise the homeowner’s payments
later. Subprime mortgages went to borrowers with the worst
credit records.  Seer assumes almost all the home loans underlying the bonds
it buys will eventually default, so the company focuses on
analyzing  house prices  and assessing how long it will take for
soured loans to be liquidated through action such as a property
sale after foreclosure, D’Albert said.  Prices for subprime-mortgage securities created in 2005
through 2007 and which aren’t paying principal right now range
from about 28.5 cents on the dollar to about 90.5 cents,
according to Bank of America data. Some of the debt rallied 20
percent this year.  Tricky Jumbos  Jumbo-mortgage securities are trickier to invest in because
of their higher prices and because senior-ranked, originally AAA
rated notes in the sector were often structured to lose
principal after losses of about 5 percent on the pools of
underlying loans, D’Albert said. The figures for subprime loans
and option ARMs were about 20 percent.  That means defaults need to stay low to create acceptable
returns and data shows borrowers often decide to stop paying
when they go underwater, D’Albert said. Across the U.S., owners
of about 11 million homes, or 23 percent of households with a
mortgage, owed more than their property was worth as of June 30,
according to Santa Ana, California-based CoreLogic Inc.|  TCW Group Inc. , which oversees about $115 billion, also is
concerned jumbo-mortgage securities may be too expensive, partly
because values of those homes have further to drop, said  Tad Rivelle , head of fixed-income investment for the Los Angeles-
based firm.  Strategic Defaults  “It suggests the prime markets may be more exposed to the
issue of strategic defaults,” Rivelle said in an interview at
Bloomberg News headquarters in New York. “We feel good about
subprime and less so about prime.”  Strategic defaults occur when a homeowner with enough money
to pay the mortgage chooses not to because investing in the home
no longer makes financial sense.  Homeowners become very likely to walk away from underwater
properties once they owe 40 percent more than the house is
worth, TCW’s data show.  On the positive side,  jumbo mortgage bonds  that investors
are buying for less than face value contain more loans that
homeowners are likely to refinance, said  Scott Eichel , the
global co-head of the mortgage- and asset-backed securities
business at Stamford, Connecticut-based RBS Securities Inc.  When those refinancings occur, bondholders receive their
purchase price back, plus additional principal that boosts their
returns.  “You’re still seeing higher-than-expected prepayment
rates,” Eichel said. “That helps justifies the prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 