-- 3M Cleared to Buy Cogent as Judge Rejects Challenge
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2010-10-05T23:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/3m-cleared-to-buy-cogent-after-judge-rejects-shareholder-challenge.html
3M Co.  was cleared to buy  Cogent
Inc. , a maker of fingerprint-identification systems, after a
judge rejected a shareholder challenge to the $943 million deal.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge  Donald F. Parsons  today
denied Cogent shareholders’ request for an injunction to stop
the sale in favor of a late, non-binding offer from  NEC Corp. 
that would be worth more.  Parsons rejected the investors’ claim that Cogent Chief
Executive Officer  Ming Hsieh  was biased in favor of 3M because
he wanted to collect a $153,000 retention bonus.  “This argument is spurious,” Parsons wrote in a decision
issued today in Wilmington, Delaware. “Hsieh’s interests appear
to be closely aligned with those of the stockholders as a
whole.”  In an NEC sale, Hsieh, who owns almost 39 percent of
Cogent, would have collected $18 million more than through the
3M deal, Cogent’s attorney  Donald J. Wolfe  said in court last
week.  Parsons sided with Pasadena, California-based Cogent, which
argued that a possible sale to NEC wasn’t firm enough and would
pose antitrust risks.  ‘Substantial Risk’  “The board had good reason to think that there was a
substantial risk,” Parsons wrote.  Michael Hanrahan , an attorney for the shareholders with
Prickett, Jones & Elliott PA in Wilmington, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  Shareholders have until midnight on Oct. 7 to accept 3M’s
tender offer. Hsieh already has tendered his shares to 3M, as
required by the sale contract.  Should 3M persuade more than 50 percent of shareholders to
sell, a provision in the contract would require Cogent to issue
and sell new shares to 3M. The so-called top-up provision would
speed the takeover by helping 3M buy 90 percent of Cogent’s
shares, according to court testimony.  NEC’s interest in Cogent became public on Sept. 30 after
court papers filed by shareholders were unsealed. In court and
in Parsons’ opinion, the Japanese electronics maker is mentioned
as Company D.  3M’s  products  range from Post-It notes to flu tests and
sanding tools. The company, based in St. Paul, Minnesota, agreed
on Aug. 30 to buy Cogent for an 18 percent premium to the share
price on Aug. 27, the last day of trading before the
announcement.  Smaller Premium  That’s less than the 29 percent average premium offered to
U.S. identification-systems companies in more than 20
acquisitions announced during the past five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cogent makes fingerprint and palm-print identification
systems that allow customers to electronically capture print
images, encode prints into files and compare them to a database
containing potentially millions of prints.  Cogent fell as much as 19 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $10.54
in after-hours trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares
earlier dropped 1 cent to close at $10.73.  The case is In Re Cogent Inc. Shareholders Litigation,
Consolidated CA 5780-VCP, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net ;
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: David E.
Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 