-- Abu Dhabi National Petroleum Studies West Africa, Central Asia Investments
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2010-10-05T11:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/abu-dhabi-national-petroleum-studies-west-africa-central-asia-investments.html
National Petroleum Construction Co. ,
an Abu Dhabi government-controlled oil-services company, will
hire a management consultant this month to help it look for
opportunities in West Africa and Central Asia.  “We are looking at Nigeria, Ghana and Angola in West
Africa, and Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan in Central Asia,” Chief
Executive Officer Aqeel Madhi said in an interview in Abu Dhabi
today. “Billions are being invested in those areas, and we want
a share. We would like to establish a shipyard and service the
local market.”  National Petroleum is joining Abu Dhabi’s other state-run
companies in considering expansion as the city increases its
presence abroad. Mubadala Development Co. and International
Petroleum Investment Co. have spent the oil-rich emirate’s
energy revenue on overseas assets ranging from stakes in General
Electric Co. to shares in exploration projects and refineries.  The new anchor-handling vessel, built in China, is the
first of a $400 million fleet expansion that is being undertaken
by National Petroleum’s new marine division headed by Ahmed al-
Ateeqi, the company said in a statement. A second vessel will
arrive from China in March, where a barge will also be completed
in July 2012. The company is building a jack-up vessel at its
own yard in Abu Dhabi, which will be ready by the end of 2011.  The company expects to hear imminently whether it won three
contracts in India worth around $400 million altogether, Madhi
said. National Petroleum is also bidding for the Wasit gas
project in Saudi Arabia, valued at more than $1 billion, and a
job in Qatar for Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Co., he said.  This year National Petroleum won a $350 million contract
from Abu Dhabi Marine Operating Co., a unit of Abu Dhabi
National Oil Co. or Adnoc, which plans to raise output by 30
percent to 750,000 barrels a day. It also won two contracts
valued at $1.2 billion from Adnoc’s  Abu Dhabi Co. for Onshore
Oil Operations , which plans to increase crude production to 1.8
million barrels a day in 2017 from 1.4 million.  General Holding Corp. , a company owned by the Abu Dhabi
government, holds 70 percent of National Petroleum, while
Athens-based Consolidated Contractors Co. has 30 percent.
General Holding is chaired by  Sheikh Hamed bin Zayed al-Nahyan ,
managing director of the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, one of
the world’s largest sovereign wealth funds.  Abu Dhabi holds most of the oil and gas reserves in the
United Arab Emirates, the third-largest member of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The U.A.E.
produced 2.3 million barrels of oil a day last month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  