-- Macklem Says Actions to Lower Currencies Means G-20 Needs to Keep Promises
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-05T23:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/macklem-says-actions-to-lower-currencies-means-g-20-needs-to-keep-promises.html
Bank of Canada Senior Deputy Governor
 Tiff Macklem  said recent efforts by some major economies to
unilaterally weaken currencies underscores the need for
countries to do more to ease global imbalances.  Measures to weaken currencies and loosen monetary policy in
recent weeks have been taken from Japan to Brazil, whose Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  warned Sept. 27 of a “currency war.”
Tomorrow, the Bank of England will decide whether to join in and
resume asset purchases to boost private lending.  “These recent events are illustrative of the fact that the
pressures for adjustment are building,” Macklem, 49, said in an
interview in Montreal today. “The stakes are getting higher.”  Group of Seven ministers, chaired by Canadian Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty , will gather Oct. 8 in Washington, on the
sidelines of an International Monetary Fund meeting. That could
produce a clash of views among countries like the U.S. and
Canada that prefer flexible exchange rates and Japan and China,
which have acted to curb appreciation in their currencies.  “What we want to see primarily is a move across the board
to more flexible exchange rates,” said  David Tulk , a senior
macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank. “You can have
considerable posturing on the side of politicians and that
creates a very difficult environment for businesses and even
households to make decisions.”  U.S. Rebuffed  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today he’s
ready to explain to G-7 counterparts the country’s reasons for
carrying out foreign-exchange intervention.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  this week called for
“relatively stable” exchange rates, rebuffing U.S. calls for a
stronger appreciation of the yuan to trim the country’s  trade 
surpluses.  China must allow further flexibility in its currency,
Macklem said, or risk creating rapid inflation in its domestic
market. “We have seen some appreciation of the renminbi but not
enough,” he said. “The Chinese real exchange rate needs to
appreciate, and that adjustment will happen one way or the
other.”  Today, European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said China’s moves have been “not exactly what we would have
hoped ourselves.”  Greater Flexibility  The yuan has risen about 2 percent versus the dollar since
the People’s Bank of China in June pledged greater flexibility
in the currency after pegging it around 6.83 for two years.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Sept. 30
he was confident tensions over China’s currency won’t lead to
escalating trade sanctions or feed into a broader global
currency conflict.  The U.S. favors exchange-rate policies based on market
forces, a U.S. Treasury official said today when asked about
Japan’s policy toward the yen.  Japan sold the yen last month for the first time in six
years to spur exports and economic growth, joining countries
across Asia and Latin America that have sought to temper gains
in their currencies against the dollar.  The Bank of Japan this week cut its overnight call rate
target from 0.1 percent and established a 5 trillion yen ($60
billion) fund to buy government bonds and other assets. It moved
following the yen’s surge to a 15-year high last month, which
hurts exports and damps economic growth. The yen traded at 83.27
per dollar yesterday, close to a Sept. 15 record of 82.88.  Strongest Call  At the Bank of England, policy maker  Adam Posen  made the
strongest call yet on Sept. 28 for the U.K. central bank to
resume asset purchases after keeping its bond-buying program at
200 billion pounds ($317 billion) for the past 11 months. That
proposal lays the ground for the first three-way split when the
Monetary Policy Committee meets tomorrow, with member  Andrew Sentance  advocating higher interest rates.  Earlier this year, the G-20 agreed to implement policies to
boost demand, including promoting exchange-rate flexibility and
ensuring sustainable government deficits. Macklem said that must
be a focus of this year’s G-20 gatherings.  “In the meetings to come in Washington and Korea there
will be considerable discussion of the full implementation of
the agreements that were taken in Toronto,” Macklem said.
“What we need is full implementation of that plan.”  The renewed push for easier monetary policy comes as the
IMF warns growth in advanced economies is falling short of its
forecasts.  John Lipsky , the IMF’s No. 2 official, said on Sept.
27 that global growth in the second half of the year will fall
short of the fund’s 3.75 percent forecast.  ‘Very Low’  Canada has more “flexibility” than other G-7 countries
because its recovery has been stronger, Macklem said. Canada
ended a conditional commitment to keep its policy  interest rate 
at a record low 0.25 percent, raising it to 1 percent last
month.  “Canada is in a different situation than the U.S. and a
number of other G-7 countries,” he said, adding that the
country has recovered all the jobs lost in its  recession  while
the U.S. hasn’t.  “It’s a modest recovery and there is an unusual amount of
uncertainty out there, so there are certainly challenges for
monetary policy as we look ahead,” Macklem said.  He also said that the benchmark rate of 1 percent is “very
low” and aims to deal with “a significant amount of slack in
the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Montreal at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 