-- AEP to Buy Power From Ohio Solar Plant Owned by Agile at Former Coal Mine
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2010-10-05T22:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/aep-to-buy-power-from-ohio-solar-plant-owned-by-agile-at-former-coal-mine.html
AEP Ohio, a unit of  American Electric
Power Co. , agreed to buy power from a 49.9-megawatt solar
project being developed by Agile Energy Inc. and New Harvest
Ventures at a former coal mine southeast Ohio.  San Bruno, California-based renewable energy developer
Agile and local developer New Harvest signed a 20-year contract
for the Turning Point project, AEP said today in a statement.  The project’s first 20 megawatts will come online in late
2012 followed by 15 megawatts added by the end of 2013 and 14.9
megawatts coming online by the end of 2014, the developers said.  Columbus, Ohio-based AEP will build the project on 500
acres of strip-mined land that it reclaimed in Morrow and Noble
counties, Terri Flora, a spokeswoman for AEP Ohio, said in an
interview. Ohio requires utilities meet 0.5 percent of their
power from solar power by 2024. AEP estimates the plant will
enable it to meet this requirement “through 2019,” Flora said.  Last week, Ohio Governor  Ted Strickland  signed an  executive
order  eliminating Ohio’s tangible personal property tax and real
property tax for “renewable and advanced” energy project
properties, intended to spur increased development.  The order makes effective Senate Bill 232, which Strickland
signed into law on June 17, in an effort to implement the rules
immediately while the normal rule-making process continues, Mark
Shanahan, the governor’s energy adviser, said in an interview.  The tax holiday will affect projects that start
construction before 2012, produce energy by 2013 (or 2017 for
nuclear, clean coal and cogeneration projects) “and create Ohio
jobs,” according to a  statement  from the governor’s office.  Renewable Requirement  Ohio requires that utilities derive 25 percent of their
power from renewable, advanced nuclear or clean-coal energy
sources by 2025 under the state’s  alternative energy resource
standard .  Michael G. Morris , AEP’s chief executive officer, agreed to
invest at least $20 million in the project in a  press conference 
held with Strickland and representatives of the companies
involved.  Isofoton SA, a Madrid-based solar-panel maker, will
manufacture 239,400 panels for the project at a new facility
that will be located in Ohio. The companies will spend $3
million on the first phase of the plant, Isofoton’s
José Carlos Sánchez-Muliterno said in the press conference.  Albacete, Spain-based Prius Energy S.L. will also
manufacture its solar tracking systems, which rotate solar
panels to face the sun, at a new plant in Ohio.  In June, South Korea-based  Toptec Co. Ltd.  and Spanish
solar company Affirma  acquired  Isofoton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ehren Goossens  in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 