-- Thai Court Dismisses Case Against Bout, Paving Way for Extradition to U.S.
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-10-05T08:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/thai-court-dismisses-case-against-bout-paving-way-for-extradition-to-u-s-.html
A Thai court dismissed a second case
against accused Russian arms dealer  Viktor Bout , clearing a
legal hurdle to having him extradited to the U.S. to face
terrorism charges.  “The second set of cases are dropped,” prosecutor Sirisak
Tiyapan told reporters in Bangkok after the ruling. “So the
extradition on the first case will continue.”  Thai prosecutors are seeking to send Bout to the U.S.,
where a grand jury indicted him on four charges that he plotted
to kill Americans. Bout’s lawyer immediately announced plans to
file more appeals in a bid to keep him in Thailand.  “It’s not finished yet,” lawyer Lak Nittiwattanawichan
told reporters. “They can’t do anything. I know how to fight.”  Bout’s case has fueled a diplomatic row between the U.S.
and Russia, with each country pressuring Thailand to follow its
version of events. Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  called
the Aug. 20 ruling to extradite Bout “political” and summoned
Thailand’s ambassador.  The U.S.  accuses  the ex-Soviet air force officer of running
an air cargo network that shipped weapons to conflict zones from
Afghanistan to Rwanda. Bout has denied wrongdoing, saying he was
framed by U.S. undercover agents who posed as Colombian rebels
during his arrest in Bangkok two years ago.  The court’s decision today dealt with charges the U.S.
brought against Bout prior to the Aug. 20 appeals court ruling
that he could be sent to America. Those included money
laundering and electronic fraud.  Anti-Aircraft Missile, Terrorists  Bout, 43, is charged in the U.S. with conspiracy to kill
U.S. nationals, conspiracy to kill U.S. officers or employees,
conspiracy to acquire an anti-aircraft missile and conspiracy to
provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist group.
If convicted, he may face life in prison.  “There’s a legal process that continues to unfold in
Thailand, and we continue to look forward to the early transport
of Mr. Bout to the United States,” State Department spokesman
 Philip J. Crowley  told reporters in Washington yesterday.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who will make the final
decision on Bout’s extradition, has urged the U.S. and Russia to
hold direct talks about the case.  The U.S. Treasury imposed financial sanctions on Bout in
2004 and 2005. He controlled as many as 50 aircraft, according
to Amnesty International, and specialized in delivering weapons
around the world.  The U.S. was Thailand’s biggest trading partner last year,
with $16.7 billion in commerce, about 40 times more than the
Southeast Asian country’s trade with Russia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  