-- AIA Names Ex-AIG Executive Edmund Tse as Director Before IPO
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-10-05T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/aia-names-ex-aig-executive-tse-as-director-as-unit-prepares-ipo.html
Edmund Tse , who helped build  American
International Group Inc. ’s life insurance operations for more
than four decades, has been named a director of the main Asia
unit being prepared for an initial public offering.  Tse, 72, was appointed a non-executive director of AIA
Group Ltd. on Sept. 27, the Hong Kong-based unit said yesterday
in a statement. He also serves as honorary chairman, AIA said.  AIA is adding executives as the business prepares for a
public listing in Hong Kong this month to help repay its
parent’s $182.3 billion U.S. government bailout.  Mark Tucker ,
who built the Asia operations of Prudential Plc over 15 years
and became chief executive officer of the London-based insurer
in 2005, was named CEO of AIA in July.  Tse was the “principal architect of AIG’s global life
insurance platform,” the New York-based insurer said in a 2009
statement announcing his reduced role with the firm. “Edmund
Tse’s leadership, wisdom and vision will be greatly missed.”  Tse joined AIA in 1961 and was CEO of the business from
1983 to 2009, according to the filing. He retired in 2009 as a
director of AIG.  AIA’s board consists of Tucker and seven non-executive
directors, including Tse, the firm said in the statement.
 Jeffrey Hurd , AIG’s senior vice president of human resources and
communications, and  Jay Wintrob , executive vice president of
AIG’s U.S. life and retirement services, represent the parent
firm on the board, AIA said.  Directors include  Chow Chung Kong , 60, CEO of  MTR Corp.  and
deputy chairman of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce;
 Rafael Hui , 62, former chief secretary for administration of
Hong Kong; Qin Xiao, 63, former chairman of  China Merchants Bank
Co. , and  Jack So , 65, who became vice chairman of Credit Suisse
Group AG’s China region in 2008.  ‘Strategic Thinking’  “The strength of the entire AIA board reflects the
importance we place on strong corporate governance and sound
strategic thinking,” Tucker, 52, said in the statement.  AIG is seeking about HK$115.3 billion ($14.9 billion) in
the IPO through the sale of as many as 5.9 billion shares of
AIA, said two people with knowledge of the matter. The offering
represents a stake of about 49 percent of the company, valuing
AIA at as much as $30.6 billion, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the discussions are private.  AIG has the option to sell more shares in AIA, taking the
potential size of the IPO to about $20.5 billion, according to a
term sheet for the transaction sent to fund managers. That would
make it the largest ever in Hong Kong, overtaking the $16
billion raised by Beijing-based  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  in 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  