-- Airgas Director Dismisses Air Products Bid as `Lowball Offer' in Testimony
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-10-05T21:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/airgas-director-dismisses-air-products-bid-as-lowball-offer-in-testimony.html
Air Products & Chemicals Inc. ’s
$5.5 billion bid for rival  Airgas Inc.  amounts to a “lowball
offer” that isn’t worthy of consideration, an Airgas board
member testified in a trial over the rejected buyout.  Air Products’ $65.50-per-share bid isn’t a reasonable offer
for the producer of industrial gases and is a blatant attempt to
buy the company cheap,  Lee Thomas , an Airgas director, told
Delaware Chancery Court Judge  William B. Chandler III  today.  The offer was “far lower than I thought was fair for the
company,” said Thomas, chief executive officer of lumber
company Rayonier Inc.  Air Products, the second-biggest U.S. industrial-gases
producer behind Praxair Inc., sued Radnor, Pennsylvania-based
Airgas on Feb. 4 to force consideration of the bid. Air Products
is based in Allentown, Pennsylvania.  As part of the case,  Airgas  is asking Chandler to
invalidate a bylaw approved Sept. 15 by shareholders that added
three Air Products nominees to the Airgas  board . The bylaw would
also move Airgas’s annual meeting to January from April at the
earliest.  Moving up the annual meeting will unfairly allow Air
Products to try to knock more Airgas nominees off the board and
take control, according to Airgas executives. Chandler has
agreed to decide both issues in the non-jury trial.  Reagan EPA Chief  Thomas, who served as head of the Environmental Protection
Agency under President  Ronald Reagan , said he has been involved
in the sale of companies in the past and could recognize serious
offers.  Air Products’ original $60-a-share all-stock offer was made
public Feb. 4, sending the shares up 50 percent. Airgas rejected
that offer, and Air Products’ decision in September to offer
$65.50 in case didn’t change directors’ minds, Thomas said.  Airgas board members concluded there was no need to discuss
a sale until Air Products executives “are prepared to put a
reasonable offer on the table,” Thomas said.  “We felt it was a low-ball offer and they were being
awfully opportunistic” in pushing to buy the rival industrial
gas company, Thomas said.  If Chandler upholds the bylaw moving up the Airgas annual
meeting, it will strengthen Air Products’ hand in the takeover
fight by cutting short directors’ terms, Thomas said.  “It would shift the leverage” in any negotiation to Air
Products’ favor, he said.  CEO’s Return  Airgas Chief Executive Officer  Peter McCausland , whom
shareholders voted off the board in September, has returned to
the panel, Thomas said.  Directors unanimously voted to expand the board to create a
seat for McCausland, who owns 9.2 percent of the company’s
 shares  according to Bloomberg data, because they believed it was
important for the CEO to be on the company’s board, Thomas said.  The three board members nominated by Air Products and
elected by shareholders voted to create the new seat for
McCausland, Thomas said.  McCausland, who testified after Thomas, said he believed
the meeting-date bylaw would undermine Airgas’s staggered-board
setup. Under such systems, only a limited number of directors
are up for reelection at any one time, to make proxy fights for
control more difficult.  “The only purpose of that bylaw is to get rid of our
staggered board” and give Air Products control, McCausland told
Chandler.  The cases are Air Products & Chemicals Inc. v. Airgas Inc.,
5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington), and Airgas Inc. v.
Air Products & Chemicals Inc., 5817, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 