-- Malaysia to Join Trans-Pacific Free Trade Talks With U.S., Seven Others
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-10-06T11:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/malaysia-will-be-included-in-pacific-free-trade-negotiations-kirk-says.html
Malaysia will join talks on the
 Trans-Pacific Partnership , a free-trade agreement under
negotiation between eight countries that the U.S. is pushing to
help its companies compete with counterparts in China and Europe.  “Malaysia, which is engaged in extensive domestic economic
reform, has assured us that it is now prepared to conclude a
high-standard agreement,” U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk 
wrote in a letter yesterday to House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a
California Democrat.  U.S. officials said last year they would pursue Japan,
Malaysia and South Korea to join the negotiations, which are
undergoing the third round this week in Brunei. China in January
signed an agreement with the 10-member  Association of Southeast
Asian Nations .  President  Barack Obama , who became the first U.S. leader to
meet with Asean in November, has aimed to increase trade with
Asia to help meet a pledge to double exports in five years. U.S.
exports to the current members of  Trans-Pacific Partnership  and
Malaysia amounted to a combined $71.6 billion last year, or 5
percent of America’s overseas sales.  “Malaysia’s a very small economy, and from the U.S.
perspective that’s a problem with the TPP,” said  John Ravenhill ,
a professor at Canberra-based Australian National University who
studies trade agreements. “All of these potential partners are
relatively insignificant for the United States.”  Surpassing Nafta  Adding Malaysia, South Korea and Japan to the Trans-Pacific
Partnership would create the largest U.S. trade accord since the
 North American Free Trade Agreement  took effect in 1994 with
Canada and Mexico. The U.S. sold more goods to Japan and South
Korea last year than the current TPP members combined.  In a policy speech last week, Japan Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said his country was interested in joining the grouping.
South Korea aims to reach a deal on a stalled bilateral trade
agreement with the U.S. when Obama visits Seoul in November.  The TPP talks, which began this year, have involved the
U.S., Australia, New Zealand, Brunei, Singapore, Chile, Vietnam
and Peru. Malaysia’s reluctance to open its rice market and
increase access to government contracts were among issues that
derailed talks on a bilateral trade deal with the U.S. in 2007.  During the next decade, the U.S. would like the accord to
include all of the 21 nations in the  Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation  bloc, which includes China, Russia and Canada, Kirk
said last year.  China, Europe Deals  China and Asean have reached a tariff-cutting agreement
that went into effect earlier this year, and they are
considering a wider deal that would include South Korea and
Japan. The European Union is set to finalize a trade agreement
with South Korea this week and is  negotiating others  with
Malaysia, India and Singapore.  “As countries throughout the world negotiate and implement
new agreements that exclude the United States, U.S. businesses
and workers are falling behind,” the U.S. Business Coalition
for TPP, which includes  Exxon Mobil Corp. , Coca-Cola Co. and
Boeing Co., said in a Sept. 30  statement . “The sooner a high-
quality TPP is negotiated and brought into force, the more
significant will be the economic benefits for the United
States.”  Chinese  trade  with Asean surpassed that of the U.S. in the
past decade, growing to $178 billion last year. Second-biggest
was the European Union, whose $171 billion in total commerce
with Southeast Asia topped the U.S.’s $149 billion.  Malaysia Lagging  For Malaysia, duties will be eliminated on 12.4 percent of
exports, particularly footwear, textile and apparel, the
 Ministry of International Trade and Industry  said in a statement.
About 71 percent of the country’s global trade will be accorded
preferential treatment once the deal is complete, it said.  “If successfully implemented, the TPP offers an excellent
platform to realize the creation of a huge market,” the
statement said.  Joining the U.S.-led talks is a small step for Malaysia to
attract more foreign investment, which has lagged behind other
countries in the region, said  Kit Wei Zheng , a Singapore-based
economist at Citigroup Inc. Foreign investment in Southeast
Asia’s third-largest  economy  has fallen over the past three
years amid growing competition from neighbors including India
and China, tumbling 81 percent last year.  “It may encourage some investment at the margins if they
see it through,” Citigroup’s Kit said. “Multilateral
agreements are much more complicated than bilateral ones and
it’s in the early days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net . 