-- Malaysian Sukuk May Rebound in 2011 on $444 Billion Plan: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-10-06T08:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/malaysian-sukuk-may-rebound-in-2011-on-444-billion-plan-islamic-finance.html
The 26 percent slowdown in Malaysia’s
local-currency Islamic bond sales this year may get a boost in
2011 from the country’s 10-year development plan.  Pengurusan Aset Air Bhd., a government-owned agency that
oversees the water services industry, may sell bonds next year
to finance acquisitions, while the eastern state of Sarawak will
need to fund the takeover of hydroelectric plants, according to
RAM Rating Services Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.  The government said last month it identified $444 billion
worth of private industry-led projects to develop everything
from the nuclear energy industry to a mass rail network over the
next decade. Companies will be turning to the bond market to
supplement bank financing, according to RAM and Malaysian Rating
Corp., the country’s two ratings companies.  “These projects need long-term funds and there will be
only so much that the banking sector can take,”  Liza Mohd Noor ,
chief executive officer of RAM Rating, said in an interview in
Kuala Lumpur on Oct. 1. The projects “will be a boon to” new
issuance, she said.  Sales in Malaysia of local-currency Shariah-compliant debt
fell to 19.3 billion ringgit ($6.2 billion) so far this year,
the least since the same period in 2006, Bloomberg data show.  Global issuance of sukuk, which pay asset returns to comply
with Shariah’s ban on interest, fell 16 percent to $11.8 billion
so far this year from the same period in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia accounts for more than 60
percent of the $130 billion of the notes outstanding, the data
show.  ‘Supply Issue’  Prime Minister  Najib Razak  is seeking to increase spending
in the next decade to bolster growth in Southeast Asia’s third-
largest economy. Nineteen projects worth 151 billion ringgit are
due to start early next year, Finance Minister  Ahmad Husni Hanadzlah  told reporters in Kuala Lumpur Sept. 28.  Pengurusan Aset’s plan to acquire water assets in the state
of Selangor, a proposal to build more railway lines in the
greater Kuala Lumpur area and Sarawak’s plan to take over the
2,400-megawatt Bakun hydroelectric project in Borneo will
trigger fund raising next year, said Liza.  Malaysia’s Works Ministry has announced plans to build
seven new highways and a speed train project that could be
financed from Islamic debt, said  Mohd Farid Kamarudin , who helps
manage 1.3 billion ringgit of Shariah-compliant assets at
AmInvestment Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur, a unit of the
fifth-biggest sukuk underwriter this year.  “Issuing Islamic bonds could be cheaper because the market
is facing a supply issue,” he said.  Spreads Narrow  Shariah-compliant debt returned 12 percent this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Index , while debt
in developing markets gained 15 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
 EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed nine
basis points yesterday to 346, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . The spread shrank 122 basis points
this year.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent note due in June 2015
fell four basis points to 2.54 percent today, according to
prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The spread with
the Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396 percent sukuk due
November 2014 has narrowed 67 basis points to 348 since June 30,
Bloomberg data show. The Dubai notes yielded 6.06 percent today,
down from 7.65 percent at the end of June, according to prices
on Bloomberg.  Faster Growth  Spending on the development projects will help Malaysia
sustain economic expansion of as much as 6 percent next year
compared with an estimated 6 percent to 7 percent growth in 2010,
Second Finance Minister  Ahmad Husni  said on Sept. 28. The
economy shrank 1.7 percent last year, the first contraction in a
decade.  Malaysia Debt Ventures Bhd., a venture capital firm owned
by the Ministry of Finance, plans to sell as much as 500 million
ringgit of Shariah-compliant notes in September or October next
year, Chief Executive Officer Md.  Zubir Ansori Yahaya  said in an
interview in Kuala Lumpur on Sept. 28. The company sold 500
million ringgit of sukuk last month.  Malaysia’s Cabinet agreed to sell its stake in Bakun,
Southeast Asia’s biggest hydroelectric dam project, to the state
of Sarawak, Ahmad Husni told reporters in Kuala Lumpur on Sept.
27. The state has offered 6 billion ringgit to take over the
venture, Bernama state news agency reported on Sept. 26, citing
Sarawak Chief Minister  Abdul Taib Mahmud .  ‘Bigger Role’  Pengurusan Aset Air is in discussions with water companies
in the state of Selangor to acquire their assets by the end of
this year, Chief Executive Officer Ahmad Faizal Abdul Rahman was
quoted as saying in a July 16 report by the Edge Financial Daily
newspaper. The acquisition may cost more than 10 billion ringgit,
according to the report. Pengurusan Aset sold 2.5 billion
ringgit of bonds last year to finance the development of water
infrastructure.  “An increase in sales in Asia will encourage the Persian
Gulf to play a bigger role, especially if Asian bond sales are
successful,” said  Louis Najem , a Dubai-based fixed-income
trader at Rasmala Investment Bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 