-- Allergan Pleads Guilty, Fined, Over Marketing Botox for Unauthorized Uses
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-05T22:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/allergan-pleads-guilty-to-pay-375-million-over-botox-marketing-claims.html
Allergan Inc.  pleaded guilty and was
ordered by a judge to pay $375 million to resolve allegations
that the drug company marketed its Botox Therapeutic product for
unapproved purposes, the U.S. Department of Justice said.  U.S. District Judge  Orinda Evans  in Atlanta today approved
the plea, which includes a $350 million criminal fine and
$25 million in forfeited assets, the Justice Department said.  Allergan, based in Irvine, California, promoted Botox for
headache, pain and juvenile cerebral palsy from 2000 through
2005, though had never received U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for those uses, the U.S. claimed.  The company said on Sept. 1 that it would pay
$225 million to resolve civil claims asserted by the Justice
Department under the False Claims Act.  “The FDA approval process is designed to help protect the
public, and when a manufacturer puts potential profits and sales
ahead of the approval process, they risk paying a bigger
price,” said U.S. Attorney  Sally Quillian Yates  in Atlanta.  The global settlement concludes a 2 1/2-year investigation
that some analysts have said has held up FDA approval for
treatment of migraines. Botox, a wrinkle smoother, is Allergan’s
top product with $1.3 billion in annual sales.  “Allergan is committed to conducting its business with the
highest ethical standards and in compliance with all applicable
laws,” said  Crystal Muilenburg , a company spokeswoman. “We
will continue to do so and implement the new requirements”
under the agreement.  The company also agreed to a five-year compliance plan
requiring it to disclose payments to doctors on its website and
provide annual certification by senior executives and board
members that divisions meet federal health-care requirements.  Allergan rose $1.46, or 2.2 percent, to $66.62 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 