-- Allied Irish Is Said to Near Announcement on M&T Stake Sale
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n ,   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2010-10-05T19:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/allied-irish-is-said-to-near-announcement-on-m-t-stake-sale.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc  may disclose
within the next two days plans to sell its $2.2 billion stake in
 M&T Bank Corp.  to institutional investors, said two people with
direct knowledge of the matter.  M&T Chief Executive Officer  Robert Wilmers  resigned from
the board of Allied Irish today, in what the people said was a
related move. They spoke on condition of anonymity because the
talks are private. Wilmers, 76, joined the board in 2003, when
the Irish lender acquired a stake in his Buffalo, New York-based
bank that now stands at about 22.5 percent.  Michael Zabel , a spokesman for M&T, said he couldn’t
comment, as did Alan Kelly, general manager of corporate
services at Dublin-based Allied Irish.  Allied Irish has been weighing options for the M&T stake
and other assets to raise money as its finances deteriorated.
The Irish government said last week it would take majority
ownership of the bank, its second bailout of the lender. Finance
Minister  Brian Lenihan  said the bank will seek to raise 5.4
billion euros ($7.3 billion) in a November stock sale.  A sale of the M&T stake to institutional holders may
present an obstacle to a potential merger of M&T with  Banco
Santander SA ’s U.S. banking business. The Spanish bank and M&T
have held intermittent talks about such a combination this year,
said other people with knowledge of those discussions.  In one of the plans under discussion, Santander would have
bought the M&T stake from Allied Irish, those people said.  Ireland’s banks are raising capital after bad debts surged
amid the collapse of a decade-long real estate boom, prompting a
government bailout of the industry that may cost as much as 50
billion euros. The rising cost prompted Standard & Poor’s to
downgrade Ireland’s credit rating and has pushed up the
country’s borrowing costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 