-- U.K. Stocks Advance; EasyJet, Xstrata Rise as Autonomy Plummets in London
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-06T15:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/allied-irish-banks-sportingbet-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks climbed to a five-month
high as  EasyJet Plc  said full-year profit beat its forecast and
speculation mounted that central banks may follow Japan’s move
this week to provide more aid to stimulate the economy.  EasyJet, Europe’s second-biggest discount airline, rallied
12 percent. Anglo American Plc and Xstrata Plc led raw-material
shares higher as metals prices rose.  Autonomy Corp. , the U.K.’s
second-largest software company, slumped the most in eight years
after cutting its revenue forecast.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  rose 45.63, or 0.8 percent, to
5,681.39 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, its highest level
since April 26. The measure has rallied 18 percent since this
year’s low in July as investors bet that central banks will step
in to shore up economic growth as the recovery falters. The  FTSE
All-Share Index  also gained 0.8 percent today, while Ireland’s
 ISEQ Index  rallied 1.2 percent.  “On one side you see central banks are trying to put a
floor in by printing money and buying back bonds,”  Adrian van Tiggelen , chief strategist at ING Investment Management in The
Hague, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Countdown” with  Maryam Nemazee . “On the other side you’re
seeing companies, certainly in the U.S., buying back more stock
than issuing stock and that’s also a source of liquidity. Both
give support.”  EasyJet Surges  EasyJet  rallied 12 percent to 433.3 pence, the largest gain
since January 2009. The airline said pretax profit for the year
ended Sept. 30 was “slightly ahead” of a 150 million-pound
($239 million) top-end forecast issued on May 11 after it served
more travelers in September and as the impact of the Icelandic
volcanic ash cloud in April was less than anticipated.  “As a result of strong revenue performance, we have
increased our forecasts” for EasyJet, Panmure Gordon & Co.
analyst  Gert Zonneveld  wrote in a report today. He maintained
his “buy” recommendation on the shares.  British Airways Plc rose 4.5 percent to 266.1 pence,
extending yesterday’s 6.5 percent gain. Chief Executive Officer
 Willie Walsh  said he sees no evidence to support concern about a
double-dip recession and that demand has “improved” from a
year ago, albeit from a “very low base.”  Ryanair Holdings Plc advanced 1.4 percent to 4.07 euros.  Anglo American climbed 4.2 percent to 2,752 pence. Xstrata
rose 3.8 percent to 1,286.5 pence. Copper, lead, nickel and tin
increased on the London Metal Exchange.  Lowered Forecast       Autonomy  plummeted 16 percent to 1,551 pence. The software
company lowered its forecast for full-year revenue by about 3
percent and predicted it will now increase annual sales by 17
percent. Numis Securities slashed its price estimate on the
shares 28 percent to 1,290 pence and maintained its advice to
sell the shares.  Wellstream Holdings Plc lost 2.4 percent to 761 pence after
General Electric Co. said the U.K. oilfield-services provider
rejected a 755 million pound takeover offer. It is unlikely GE
will consider a hostile takeover, though Wellstream may be in
talks with other potential buyers, Panmure Gordon analyst  Peter Hitchens  wrote in a note to investors today.
      Man Group Plc , the hedge-fund manager that’s buying GLG
Partners Inc., rose 4.7 percent to 237.7 pence. Its flagship AHL
Diversified Futures fund rose 3.4 percent last week, the best
showing since April, the company said after the close of trading
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  