-- Alta Mesa Plans Eight-Year Debt as Junk Maturities Grow: New Issue Alert
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2010-10-05T09:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/alta-mesa-plans-debt-as-junk-maturities-grow-new-issue-alert.html
Alta Mesa Holdings LP, the Houston-
based energy company, is marketing debt as speculative-grade
bonds maturing in eight years or more climbed to the most this
year relative to all new issues.  Alta Mesa plans to sell $300 million of senior notes due in
2018, according to a person familiar with the transaction. The
debt may be priced as soon as this week, said the person.  Issuance volume of high-risk, high-yield debt maturing in
at least eight years climbed to 72 percent of the market in
September, the highest this year and up from 68 percent in
August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuers are
taking advantage of the lowest junk yields in more than three
years to issue longer-dated securities, said  Sabur Moini , who
manages the $1 billion  Payden High Income Fund .  “With interest rates being low for some time going forward
and a lot of cash in the market, companies will continue to take
advantage to extend their debt-maturity profiles,” Moini said
in a telephone interview from Los Angeles. ”There’s a risk to
waiting, and right now with liquidity so bountiful, it behooves
a company with debt maturing in the next two or three years to
refinance it and extend it out.”  Yields on junk-rated corporate bonds fell 2 basis points
yesterday to 8.03 percent, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index. The extra yield
investors demanded to buy junk debt instead of Treasuries rose 1
basis point to 623 basis points, the index data show.  ‘Global Uncertainties’  “There are still concerns of a slow global economy,
there’s still talk of a double dip, and clearly there are global
uncertainties, so why not take advantage of a hot market,”
Moini said. “The further out your debt structure is, the better
the markets feel.”  Manufacturing orders in the U.S. declined 0.5 percent in
August, the Commerce Department said yesterday in Washington,
following a revised 0.5 percent increase a month earlier. The
Dow Jones Industrial Average had its biggest decline in a month
and European shares slipped for a sixth day.  Alta Mesa may use proceeds to repay a second-lien term
loan, reduce borrowings under a revolving credit line, make a
distribution to Alta Mesa Investment Holdings Inc. and for
general corporate purposes, said the person familiar with the
sale, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
The securities may be rated B3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
B by Standard & Poor’s, according to separate statements from
those companies. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  Investment-grade corporate bond spreads were unchanged for
the ninth straight day at 184 basis points yesterday, according
to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master
Index. Absolute yields on the debt fell 3 basis points to 3.66
percent.  Companies sold $3.26 billion of debt yesterday, Bloomberg
data show, including $955 million of high-yield securities. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Celgene Corp. , the maker of blood-cancer drugs, was the
biggest issuer, selling $1.25 billion of notes, Bloomberg data
show.  The following is a description of at least $11 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK plans to sell sukuk in dollars,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. CIMB
Holdings Bhd., Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc are managing the issue, the people said.  ENTERGY ARKANSAS INC.  may sell $150 million of 30-year
first-mortgage bonds, according to a person familiar with the
offering. The debt may yield 5.75 percent to 5.875 percent, said
the person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set.  RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD. , India’s biggest company by market
value, approached banks to help it raise at least $1 billion
from a bond sale, according to three people with direct
knowledge of the matter. The petrochemicals and textile company,
whose chairman is billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , may use the money
for acquisitions, one of the people said, asking not to be
identified as the matter is private.  QATAR TELECOM QSC hired banks to organize meetings with
investors ahead of a planned dollar bond sale, according to an
e-mailed statement from the company. The meetings will occur in
Singapore, Hong Kong, Los Angeles, New York, Boston, Dubai and
London, a person familiar with the matter said, asking not to be
identified because he isn’t authorized to discuss the details.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The debt is likely to be for five years and is meant to
“fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance sheet,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone interview from
Doha. The bank will sell the bonds in dollars and the local
riyal currency, the CEO said in a July 25 interview.  Not Rated  EVRAZ INC. NA CANADA plans to sell $650 million of seven-
year bonds that are callable after four years, according to two
people with knowledge of the sale. Barclays Capital and Credit
Suisse Group AG are managing the issue, which will help
refinance existing debt of the parent, Evraz Group SA.  ALTA MESA HOLDINGS LP, a Houston-based oil and natural gas
company, plans to sell $300 million of senior notes due 2018,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. Proceeds
may be used to repay a second-lien term loan, reduce borrowings
under a revolving credit line, make a distribution to Alta Mesa
Investment Holdings Inc. and for general corporate purposes,
said the person, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  VTB GROUP, Russia’s second-largest lender, hired Citigroup
Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and its VTB Capital unit to manage the
sale of dollar bonds, a banker involved in the deal said. The
sale is benchmark in size and may yield a basis-point spread to
comparably dated U.S. Treasuries in the low 400s, said the
banker, who declined to be identified because the deal is not
complete. Benchmark sales are typically at least $500 million.  VOTORANTIM CIMENTOS SA plans to sell perpetual bonds in
dollars, which are callable after five years, years, according
to a banker involved in the transaction. Bank of America Corp.,
HSBC Holdings Plc, Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Morgan Stanley
are managing the issue, which will be guaranteed by Votorantim
Participacoes SA and Votorantim Industrial SA, the banker said.  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  High Yield  DAVITA INC. plans to sell $1.45 billion of senior notes,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The issue
will be split between 8- and 10-year notes, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Proceeds
will help purchase outstanding debt, the company said Oct. 1 in
a statement distributed by Business Wire that didn’t specify the
timing or split of the sale.  NAVIOS MARITIME ACQUISITION CORP., an owner and operator of
petroleum tankers, plans to sell about $375 million of ship-
mortgage, seven-year notes denominated in U.S. dollars, the
company said Sept. 30 in a statement distributed by PR Newswire.  BRICKMAN GROUP HOLDINGS INC. may sell $300 million of
eight-year notes, according to a person familiar with the
offering, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set.  OSO SEVERSTAL , Russia’s largest steelmaker, plans to meet
investors in Europe, Asia and the U.S. to discuss a sale of
dollar bonds, according to a banker with knowledge of the road
show. The company offered to buy back $450 million of bonds on
Sept. 30., more than a third of its 9.75 percent notes due in
2013, aiming to refinance the amount with less expensive debt.  CLEARWATER PAPER CORP. plans to sell $350 million of senior
unsecured notes, the Spokane, Washington-based company said in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The maker of
consumer tissue, bleached paperboard and wood products plans to
use proceeds, along with $210 million of cash on hand to finance
its purchase of Cellu Tissue Holdings Inc., the filing said.  TPC INC. plans to sell $325 million of seven-year notes
through its TPC Group LLC unit, according to a statement
distributed by PR Newswire. Proceeds may be used to repay debt
and finance a dividend, the company said in the statement.
Moody’s ranked the debt B1 and S&P assigned the notes an
equivalent grade of B+.  REYNOLDS GROUP HOLDINGS LTD. may sell $3 billion of 8.5-
year notes to help pay for its acquisition of Pactiv Corp.,
according to a person familiar with the offering. The issue may
be evenly split between secured and unsecured debt maturing in
March 2019, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set. Reynolds Group is also seeking $1.5
billion in loans to pay for the acquisition, the person said.  CHINA MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES INC., which makes devices for
tumor treatments, plans to sell as much as $200 million of five-
year senior notes denominated in dollars, the company said in a
statement distributed by PR Newswire. Proceeds will be used to
buy back convertible notes due in 2011 and 2013, Fitch Ratings
said in a statement. Deutsche Bank AG and Standard Chartered Plc
will help the Beijing-based company arrange meetings with
investors in Hong Kong, Singapore, London and the U.S., said a
person familiar with the transaction who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  YASAR HOLDING AS, a Turkish company that makes dairy and
meat products, paint and paper, plans to sell five-year notes
denominated in U.S. dollars, said a person familiar with the
matter. Barclays Plc is managing the sale, which will be used to
fund a senior loan to Yasar from Barclays Bank Plc, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the details are
private.  DINEEQUITY INC., the owner of Applebee’s Neighborhood Grill
& Bar and the IHOP pancake chain, plans to sell as much as $825
million of eight-year senior unsecured notes, the company said
in a statement distributed by Marketwire. Proceeds may be used
to help fund tender offers for “certain series of its
subsidiaries’ outstanding securitization notes,” the Glendale,
California-based company said in the statement.  E-LAND FASHION CHINA HOLDINGS LTD, the Hong Kong-based
apparel products provider, hired Morgan Stanley to help it sell
$200 million of three-year bonds, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Moody’s Investors Service ranked the proposed
notes at Ba2, citing growing personal consumption in China, E-
Land Fashion’s moderate scale and significant business
volatility. Proceeds will be used mainly for capital
expenditures and general corporate purposes, Moody’s said in the
report.  Offerings in Pipeline  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC.  is planning its first
debt offering since its bailout two years ago as the insurer
moves toward independence from the U.S. government, Chairman
Steve Miller said Sept. 29.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS , a Turkish bank, applied to Turkey’s
capital markets regulator to sell dollar-denominated bonds
abroad, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock Exchange.  BANCO DE CREDITO E INVERSIONES , Chile’s fourth-largest
lender by assets, postponed the sale of five-year notes in U.S.
dollars, according to a person familiar with the offering.  The company had planned to sell the notes as soon as Sept.
24, said the person, who declined to be identified because the
marketing was private.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said. The money would go to fund expansion  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. , the insurer that’s
majority owned by the U.S., may sell bonds to help repay its
government bailout, it said in an Aug. 9 registration statement
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  