-- Altron Aiming to Boost African Sales to 20% of Total Revenue Over 5 Years
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-05T10:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/altron-aiming-to-boost-african-sales-to-20-of-total-revenue-over-5-years.html
Allied Electronics Corp. , an
investment company with interests in communications equipment
and power cables, aims for African sales to account for 20
percent of its revenue by 2015.  “One of the key strategic focuses we have is growth into
Africa,” Chief Executive Officer  Robbie Venter  said in a phone
interview today from Johannesburg where the company is based.
“Africa gives Altron 10 percent of our revenue,” and the
target is “20 percent of our revenue over five years’ time.”  Altron, as the company is known, will “piggyback” on its
relationships with existing clients such as banks and retailers
operating in South Africa which are expanding into Africa,
Venter said.  Altron “has a very strong presence in the Southern
African Development Community countries” and will use  Allied
Technologies Ltd. , or Altech, its listed subsidiary in
telecommunications and electronic security, in East Africa and
West Africa as a base to increase sales. Altron has an
agreement to supply and service point-of-sale systems for a
“well-established” retailer, following an earlier deal to
supply a bank, Venter said, declining to name the clients.  Altech will have an operational data center in Nairobi by
the end of the year, Venter said. Altron’s  Bytes Technology
Group Ltd. , which sells computer services and hardware, is
establishing itself in Nairobi to offer services to clients
using the data center, he said.  Banking Development  “Altech’s East Africa operations we see as a cornerstone
for our growth in the telecoms market there,” Venter said.
Powertech, the power systems unit, already has a transformer
and battery group in East Africa.  “The second hub and perhaps a more challenging market is
West Africa where Altech already manufactures pre-paid vouchers
for telecoms operators” including MTN Group Ltd., Africa’s
largest mobile-phone operator, Venter said.  Credit-card manufacturing equipment has been built in
Nigeria to target banks as the market develops from “a pure
cash-based system to a more formal banking sector,” he said.  Altron’s net income rose to 294 million rand ($42 million)
in the six months through August from 243 million a year
earlier, the company said in a statement today. Sales fell 3
percent to 11.7 billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  