-- Aluminium Bahrain Appoints JPMorgan, Citigroup for Initial Share Offering
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2010-10-05T12:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/aluminium-bahrain-hires-jpmorgan-citigroup-for-share-sale.html
Aluminium Bahrain BSC , operator of an
850,000 metric-tons-a-year smelter, hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
and  Citigroup Inc.  to manage the possible sale of as much as
11.5 percent of its shares on local and international exchanges.  Bahrain Mumtalakat Holding Co., the Persian Gulf nation’s
sovereign wealth fund, may sell as many as 163 million shares,
with ordinary stock listed on the Bahrain exchange and global
depository receipts on the London bourse, Alba, as the smelter
is known, said in an e-mailed statement today. The company has
about 1.42 billion shares outstanding, a spokesman said.  Alba appointed J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd. as sole global
coordinator and bookrunner. The bank will manage the sale of
GDRs with Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. as co-manager. Gulf
International Bank BSC will be regional lead manager, Alba said.  The Bahraini government holds 77 percent of Alba and Saudi
Arabia owns 20 percent through chemicals maker Saudi Basic
Industries Corp. The partners will proportionally split a 3
percent stake owned by Breton Investments Ltd., once Alba
completes the purchase of that company’s holding in the smelter.  Alba said in June it plans to convert itself into a public
joint stock company to add financial flexibility and allow its
aluminum smelter to compete in international markets.  The company last month reported a first-half profit of $200
million, beating its own forecasts. Alba said it may exceed
internal profit targets this year, without disclosing projected
earnings or providing comparison data for the previous year.  An initial public offering could take place in November or
December, Chairman  Mahmood Hashim al Kooheji  said Sept. 21. The
company intends to expand annual smelter capacity by 400,000
tons, Chief Executive Officer  Laurent Schmitt  said the same day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  