-- American Express Sinks Again on U.S. Antitrust Case
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2010-10-05T21:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/american-express-sinks-for-second-day-on-u-s-antitrust-case.html
American Express Co.  fell 2 percent
in New York trading, adding to yesterday’s 6.5 percent drop,
after choosing to fight a U.S. antitrust complaint while larger
rivals  Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc.  settled the case.  AmEx, the day’s  worst performer  of the 30 companies in the
Dow Jones Industrial Average,  had  skidded  as much as 4.4
percent before rebounding to $38.28 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Visa, based in San Francisco,
advanced 2.4 percent to $74.99 and Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard climbed 1.5 percent to $225.90.  Visa and MasterCard, the world’s biggest payment networks,
will no longer bar merchants from steering customers to
alternative forms of payment, including credit cards with lower
acceptance costs. AmEx, based in New York, will keep its rules
in place as it challenges the Justice Department’s lawsuit,
widening “the perceived gap” between its prices and those of
its competitors, said  Scott Valentin  of FBR Capital Markets.  That may “reduce a merchant’s incentive to accept American
Express cards and negatively affect billed business,” Valentin
said today in a note to clients. “The primary concern is that
American Express has more to lose, given its higher merchant
fee, if merchants have the ability to steer toward competing
networks.”  Stock Ratings  Valentin today cut his target price on AmEx to $45 from
$48. He maintained his “market perform”  rating . Analyst  David Hochstim  at Buckingham Research Group sees the stock’s decline
as a buying opportunity as he maintained his $56 price target.  “In the short run, there should be little change on AmEx’s
business as it won’t change its operating rules until the
dispute with the Department of Justice is resolved,” Hochstim
said today in a research note. “We expect the company can
continue to grow.”  Retailers pay American Express an average of about 2.5
percent on every transaction, a fee known as the merchant
discount. Visa and MasterCard have similar fees, most of which
they pass on to banks that issue their cards. The fees
compensate card issuers for the risk of lending money,
processing costs and to help fund rewards programs.  Market Share  “Average spending on our cards, which is substantially
higher on a per-card basis for us versus our competitors,
represents greater value to merchants in the form of loyal
customers and higher sales,” American Express said in its
 annual report . “This enables us to earn a premium discount rate
and thereby invest in greater value-added services for merchants
and card members.”  Visa and MasterCard process about 70 percent of annual U.S.
credit-card spending, demonstrating that American Express
doesn’t wield enough market power to justify the Justice
Department’s case, AmEx General Counsel  Louise M. Parent  said
yesterday in a conference call with reporters and analysts.  Parent’s legal team cited the government’s arguments in an
earlier antitrust case against Visa and MasterCard in which the
Justice Department argued that AmEx didn’t have market power and
served as a counterweight to its rivals’ dominance.  “American Express is a critical competitive component in
the marketplace and these provisions in our contracts are
critical to our ability to effectively compete against Visa and
MasterCard,” said  Evan Chesler , an attorney for AmEx and
chairman of New York-based Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP, in the
conference call.  Market Power  AmEx’s argument that it lacks market power shouldn’t allow
the company to limit retailers’ ability to offer customers
discounts, said Douglas Kantor, a partner at Washington-based
Steptoe & Johnson LLP who advises the National Association of
Convenience Stores and the Merchants Payments Coalition.  “Saying you can’t charge less for someone else’s product
than for mine is like going into a room with that person and
fixing prices,” Kantor said in a telephone interview. “They’ll
realize soon they’re not going to be able to win that case.”  The settlement is a victory for the biggest U.S. merchants,
including Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , said
 David Robertson , publisher of the Nilson Report, a credit-card
industry newsletter.  Retail Win  “This has been a tremendous coup for large retailers, and
there are none bigger than Wal-Mart,” Robertson said. “Retail
is a high-volume game, so they’re always looking to manage
costs, and payment processing is an escalating cost center for
retailers because Americans are spending more with plastic. This
is exactly what retailers ought to be doing for their own self-
interest.”  Greg Rossiter , a Wal-Mart spokesman, declined to comment.  American Express has good reason to fight the Justice
Department, said  Bert Foer , head of the American Antitrust
Institute in Washington.  “AmEx has a lot to lose if merchants can steer customers
away from their card,” Foer said. The company “will fight very
hard, and it will probably go up to the Supreme Court, which has
not been fond of antitrust.”  The case is U.S. v. American Express, 10-4496, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). 