-- Android Tops IPhone, BlackBerry Among New Buyers: Nielsen
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-05T20:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/android-tops-iphone-blackberry-among-u-s-smartphone-buyers-nielsen-says.html
Google Inc. ’s Android software has
become the most popular operating system in the U.S. among new
smartphone buyers, passing the iPhone and BlackBerry platforms,
according to Nielsen Co.  Android was the top choice for U.S. consumers who bought a
smartphone in the past six months with  Research In Motion Ltd. ’s
BlackBerry and Apple Inc.’s iPhone tied for second place,
Nielsen said.  Android has surged in popularity because the software is
free to any company that wants to build phones using it and a
wide range of manufacturers have adopted it, including Motorola
Inc. and  HTC Corp.  Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. wireless
operator, has promoted Android devices, and  AT&T Inc. , the
exclusive U.S. carrier for the iPhone, now also offers several
Android models.  “Distribution and choice is king,” said  Roger Entner ,
Nielsen’s head of telecom research. “They expand their
distribution to Verizon, Sprint and AT&T and introduce a whole
slew of devices and their market share goes up like a rocket.”  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless operator, said
today it will start selling three new Motorola Android phones,
ranging in price from $79.99 to $129.99 with a two-year
contract.  In August, Nielsen said that Android had passed Apple’s
iPhone in sales among new U.S. smartphone buyers in the second
quarter, though it still trailed the BlackBerry.  While BlackBerry retained the top spot among all U.S.
smartphone owners with a 31 percent share, its lead over  Apple 
is declining, Nielsen said. IPhone accounted for 28 percent of
users and Android, 19 percent.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, climbed $15.88,
or 3 percent, to $538.23 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. Google has dropped 13 percent this year, while
RIM has declined 26 percent and Apple has jumped 37 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  