-- Anglo Irish Default Swaps May Be Triggered on `Burden Sharing'
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   K a t e   H a y w o o d
-- 2010-10-06T11:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/anglo-irish-default-swaps-may-be-triggered-amid-lenihan-s-burden-sharing-.html
Banks and hedge funds may have to pay
out on  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  debt insurance after the
government insisted holders of its riskiest bonds share the pain
of a $47 billion bailout.  The cost of credit-default swaps protecting Anglo Irish’s
subordinated notes has more than doubled since Sept. 1 on
speculation of a payout. Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
said last week that holders of the bank’s 2.45 billion euros
($3.4 billion) of junior notes must take on some of the
“burden” of the rescue, raising the prospect of the swaps
being triggered.  Ireland is pledging more cash for  Anglo Irish  after
nationalizing the lender in January 2009 as its bad loans
mounted following the collapse of a decade-long real-estate
bubble. The bill represents as much as 21 percent of Ireland’s
economic output, the most for a euro-region bank rescue since
the start of the credit crisis three years ago.  “It’s almost guaranteed that there will be an event of
default” that will cause the swaps to pay out, said  Michael Hampden-Turner , a credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London.
“It’s almost inevitable that the junior bondholders won’t get
paid.”  Net $390 Million  There are 674 credit-default swap contracts insuring a net
$390 million of Anglo Irish’s senior and subordinated debt,
according to Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. data. It now
costs 5.2 million euros in advance and 500,000 euros annually to
insure 10 million euros of the bank’s junior bonds for five
years, implying a more than 82 percent probability of default,
according to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent when a
borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The Irish government pledged as much as 11.4 billion euros
to support Anglo Irish on Sept. 30, on top of the 22.9 billion
euros it has already pumped in since seizing the lender in
January 2009. Lenihan said that, while senior bondholders will
be paid in full under the bailout, legislation is being prepared
to “address the issue” of junior bondholders taking a loss on
their investments.  Ireland will retain the option of asking investors to sell
their holdings back at a “very deeply discounted” price,
according to  Michael Torpey , head of banking at the National
Treasury Management Agency, established in 1990 to manage assets
and liabilities for the government.  Possible Downgrade  The cost of bailing out Ireland’s banking system has also
weighed on the nation’s credit quality.  Fitch Ratings lowered the country’s rating to A+ from AA-
with a negative outlook today, citing the banking rescue.
Moody’s Investors Service placed Ireland’s rating on review for
possible downgrade yesterday after the government in Dublin
pledged as much as 50 billion euros to save the country’s banks.
Any downgrade to Ireland’s Aa2 rating will “most likely” be by
a single level, Moody’s said in a statement.  Credit-default swaps tied to Irish debt have risen 115
percent since the beginning of August, climbing to 427 basis
points, according to CMA. The extra yield investors demand to
hold 10-year Irish government bonds instead of benchmark German
securities rose to a record  4.54 percentage points  on Sept. 29,
and was at 4.12 percentage points today, Bloomberg data show.  The Anglo Irish rescue package will cost every man, woman
and child in Ireland as much as 7,500 euros. The bailout of
Germany’s  Hypo Real Estate Holding AG , in absolute terms
Europe’s most expensive bank collapse, cost less than 5 percent
of the nation’s GDP of 3.4 trillion euros in guarantees and cash
injections, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Lessons of Crisis’  “Anglo Irish is one of the lessons from the crisis,” said
 Simon Adamson , a banking analyst at CreditSights Inc. in London.
“A bank may not be obviously systemically important, yet
because it’s a bank that makes it too big to fail.”  The price of Anglo Irish’s junior debt has fallen in past
months on speculation holders would lose money in a rescue. The
bank’s Tier 2 floating-rate bonds due 2016 have dropped to about
23 cents on the euro, from as high as 42.75 cents in May,
according to composite prices compiled by Bloomberg. Tier 2
notes rank above so-called Tier 1 debt in a default.  If the Irish government fails to repay Anglo Irish’s junior
notes, investors would then need to ask the New York-based
International Swaps and Derivatives Association, which
administers the credit-swap market, to declare an event of
default that would cause the insurance contracts to pay out.  Game Changer  After the U.K. government nationalized  Bradford & Bingley
Plc  in 2008, it changed the rules to allow the troubled lender
to defer interest on its subordinated debt without that legally
constituting a default. Its failure to pay still triggered
credit-swaps protecting all the Bingley, England-based bank’s
bonds in July.  “If the terms of the debt are changed to the detriment of
the holder, then that usually constitutes a restructuring
event” and triggers credit-default swaps, said  Arup Ghosh , a
strategist at Barclays Capital in London. “If buyers of default
swap protection are subsequently not made whole on their
investment, it could damage the credibility of the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  