-- Mantega Tax Rise to Spark Bond Rout for JPMorgan, Barclays: Brazil Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-10-05T14:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/mantega-tax-rise-to-spark-bond-rout-for-jpmorgan-barclays-brazil-credit.html
Brazil’s attempt to end the
currency’s 28 percent ascent since October 2008 is prompting
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Capital to predict the biggest
tumble in benchmark real-denominated bonds in 21 months.  Benchmark notes due in 2017 will sink, sending yields up as
much as 40 basis points, the most since January 2009, to 12.19
percent after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  doubled the tax
yesterday on foreign purchases of fixed-income securities, said
 Felipe Pianetti , an emerging-markets strategist at JPMorgan in
New York. Yields on bonds due in 2021 may jump 25 basis points
to 12.11 percent, said  Roberto Melzi , a strategist at Barclays
in New York. Both securities fell today, with the yield on the
2017 bonds jumping eight basis points to 11.88 percent at 9:55
a.m. New York time, and the 2021 bond yielding 11.94 percent, a
seven basis-point rise.  A deeper selloff “will depend on whether the market gets
nervous and believes that the central bank or the authorities in
general will continue doing this kind of thing,” Melzi said.  Brazil’s move reflects concern across emerging markets as
central bank dollar purchases fail to stem gains in local
currencies prompted by inflows into the highest-yielding assets
from South Korea to South Africa and Colombia. Mantega, 61, is
aiming to shore up exports after the real’s rally helped drive
Brazil’s  current-account deficit  to a record $45.8 billion in
the 12 months ending August.  ‘Quite Attractive’  Brazil’s benchmark lending rate, at 10.75 percent, is the
second-highest among the Group of 20 countries after
Argentina’s.  Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer at Pacific
Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond
fund, said in an interview yesterday that Brazil offers “quite
attractive” rates. The country’s 2021 bond yield is 946 basis
points higher  than similar-maturity debt in the U.S.  and 570
higher than Mexico’s.  Brazilian local bonds returned 15 percent this year,
following a 52 percent gain in 2009 after accounting for the
real’s appreciation, according to  JPMorgan’s GBI-EM Broad Index .
The advance compared with the 11.6 percent increase in 2010 for
the average emerging-market local currency bonds and 8.9 percent
return in U.S. Treasuries, according to JPMorgan and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The rally in Brazil sent yields on notes due in 2021 down
43 basis points, or 0.43 percentage point, since their issue in
February. Yields on securities maturing in 2017 declined 153
basis points this year.  ‘Currency War’  Mantega, reiterating his concern about a global “currency
war,” increased a tax on foreigners’ bond investments to 4
percent from 2 percent after the market closed yesterday. The
change takes effect today.  “Eventually this is bad for the government as they have to
pay more for bond issues,” said JPmorgan’s Pianetti.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012, the most traded in Sao Paulo’s BM&F Exchange, rose
one basis point to 11.43 percent.  The real gained 0.7 percent to 1.6867 per dollar, from
1.6979 yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points to 202,
according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years held at 113 basis points, according to data provider
CMA. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Tripled Holdings  Mantega is seeking to stem purchases from international
investors after they tripled local bond holdings in the past
three years to $89 billion, helping spark the real’s advance to
a two-year high of 1.6735 per dollar on Oct. 1.  The tax increase “is amazing,” said  Pablo Cisilino , who
helps manage $14 billion in emerging-market debt at Stone Harbor
Investment in New York. “It takes liquidity out of the market.
This makes it more difficult and expensive to trade Brazilian
bonds.”  International investors held 61 percent of the government
bonds due in 2017 as of April, up from 50 percent at the end of
2008, according to the Treasury. They owned 49 percent of the
bonds due in 2021. Stone Harbor pared its Brazilian debt
holdings last week as it predicted the real’s rally has run its
course, Cisilino said.  New Government  Mantega, who is slated to leave office with President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva in January, said yesterday that the tax
increase seeks to discourage investors from moving money into
Brazil to tap into benchmark rates of more than 10 percent.  “Many countries are taking currency measures and no one is
sleeping on the job,” Mantega told reporters in Brasilia. “The
tendency is toward weakening their currencies. It’s not only a
currency war. It tends to become a trade war and this is our
concern.”  South Korea tightened limits on banks’ holdings of currency
forwards in June, while Japan intervened in exchange markets in
September for the first time since 2004 to stem the yen’s rally
to a 15-year high.  Brazil’s central bank has bought dollars in the foreign-
exchange market every day since May 2009, swelling its reserves
to a record $276 billion, to help stem real gains. The central
bank tripled its dollar purchases to $9.4 billion in September
from August.  At the same time, policy makers raised the benchmark
overnight rate 200 basis points this year to cool growth and
keep inflation near its 4.5 percent target. The central bank
expects the economy to grow more than 7 percent this year.  Trade Surplus  Brazil’s  trade surplus  narrowed to $16.8 billion in the 12
months through September, the smallest in more than seven years,
as the stronger real and fastest economic expansion in two
decades boosted imports and slowed exports. The real has surged
37.4 percent since the end of 2008, extending its advance since
Lula took office in 2003 to 108 percent, the most among all
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazil offers “a real rate of interest of 8 percent to 9
percent and that’s quite attractive,” Pimco’s Gross said in an
interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television before Mantega
announced the tax increase. “So we’re looking to high-growth
economies.”  Real-denominated bonds due in 2017 were the biggest holding
in Pimco’s $5.3 billion Emerging-Market Local Bond Fund as of
June 30, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . Brazilian
assets were the third biggest in Pimco’s $252 billion  Total
Return Fund , which is managed by Gross, after the U.S. and U.K.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman at Pimco in Newport Beach,
California, didn’t return telephone calls and e-mail messages
seeking a comment on the tax increase.  Yields Climb  The government implemented the tax change a day after the
election to choose Lula’s successor failed to produce a winner,
sparking a run-off vote scheduled for Oct. 31.  Dilma Rousseff ,
Lula’s former cabinet chief, and  Jose Serra , the former Sao
Paulo governor, will face-off in the second-round vote.  Mantega indicated last week he was considering such a tax,
sending yields on Brazil’s 2021 securities up 31 basis points
for the week, the most since May.  After Brazil implemented a 2 percent tax on Oct. 19, 2009,
on foreign investment in the stock and bond markets, yields on
notes due in 2017 jumped 32 basis points in a week to 13.23
percent.  Last year’s tax kept the real weaker than 1.69 per dollar
until last month, when state-run oil company Petroleo Brasileiro
SA’s record $70 billion share sale attracted foreign investors.  The tax increase will work “in the short term” to stem
the real’s rally, said  Alvise Marino , an emerging-market
currency strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York. “It
won’t have a long-term effect because it remains a dollar story.
You have U.S. rates that are at historical lows and regardless
what happens with Brazilian rates, the rate differential still
remains very, very attractive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  