-- Aon Sells More Salary Advice in `Great, Early Sign' for Economy
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-10-05T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/aon-sells-u-s-clients-more-pay-advice-in-great-early-sign-for-economy.html
Aon Corp. , the world’s biggest
insurance broker, said employers are increasingly hiring the
firm to provide compensation advice in a “great, early sign”
for economic growth.  “We’re seeing people now refocusing and are hiring us
again to do compensation work to look at how to attract and
retain talent,” said  Russell Fradin , chief executive officer of
the firm’s human-resources consulting unit, Aon Hewitt. “That’s
a great early sign for the economy that large employers are
starting to refocus their efforts.”  While some employers have slowed firings since the U.S.
recession ended in June last year, they haven’t stepped up
hiring enough to reduce an unemployment rate near a 26-year
high. The  jobless rate  posted its first increase in four months
in August, rising to 9.6 percent from 9.5 percent, according to
the U.S. Department of Labor. Joblessness has hurt consumer
spending, the biggest part of the U.S. economy.  “You’re not seeing a massive hiring, but you are seeing
some level of hiring again,” said Fradin, 55, who as CEO of
Hewitt Associates agreed to the $4.7 billion sale to Aon.
“That’s a positive thing, but certainly not anywhere near what
you need to bring unemployment down in any substantial way.”  U.S. employers are giving salaried workers raises of about
2.4 percent this year, compared with last year’s record low of
1.8 percent, according to an Aug. 30  survey  of more than 1,450
companies by Fradin’s firm, which was known as Hewitt Associates
until last week’s acquisition by Chicago-based Aon.  Revenue from Consulting  The firm gets about half its revenue from consulting
services and about 40 percent from benefits administration,
according to the company’s calculation of what its businesses
generated last year while operating independently. Operations
combined under Aon Hewitt had about $4.3 billion of revenue last
year.  Aon Hewitt, with 29,000 employees, will make job cuts as it
integrates after the merger, Fradin said. He declined to
estimate reductions, saying decisions haven’t yet been made.  Hewitt is Aon’s  biggest acquisition , surpassing a $1.4
billion takeover of reinsurance broker Benfield Group Ltd. in
2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Some of the largest
insurance brokers, which earn commissions by matching buyers and
sellers of coverage, also make revenue with consulting
businesses.  Marsh & McLennan Cos.  is the second-biggest broker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  