-- Apple's Data Needs Mean $1.7 Million, Jacuzzi for Carolina Pair
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/apple-s-data-needs-mean-1-7-million-jacuzzi-for-carolina-pair.html
Apple Inc.  needed land owned by
Donnie and Kathy Fulbright for a $1 billion data center in rural
North Carolina. The couple showed no interest in moving out of
their home of 34 years in the town of  Maiden .  The Fulbrights say they spurned one offer, then a second.
Finally, they agreed to sell for $1.7 million, county records
show, opting to leave the single-story house on the less than
one acre of land they purchased for $6,000.  “They told us to put a price on it and we did,” said
Kathy Fulbright, 62, seated on a brown leather sofa in the
living room of the home she and her husband built with the
proceeds. The 49-acre property boasts a 4,200-square-foot house
with a Jacuzzi in the master bathroom, as well as a manmade pond
stocked with  bass and catfish .  Apple was willing to pay up to get the land in its drive to
improve digital entertainment services that fuel demand for
 iPods, iPhones and iPads . The plot is adjacent to the site where
Apple is building a 500,000-square-foot warehouse-like structure
that analysts say will brim with servers, generators and other
gear that make it easier to deliver songs, TV episodes and
movies via the  iTunes  online store.  “Apple’s growth has been pretty dramatic and they have
probably exceeded their capacity,” said  David Cappuccio ,
Stamford, Connecticut-based chief of  research  at Gartner Inc.,
which advises companies on the use of data centers like the one
Apple is building. “Between iTunes and the video store they are
going to have, you’re talking about massive amounts of data and
millions of people trying to access that at the same time.”  Streaming Music, Video  The center is due to be completed by year’s end. It will
help Apple customers stream and store music and videos remotely,
via the so-called cloud, rather than having to download files to
a hard drive, said  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray in
Minneapolis. Apple announced plans for the facility in June 2009
and began construction in August.  Apple may also use the center to help stream video to a
newly revamped Apple TV set-top box, said  Richard Doherty ,
 director  of the consulting firm Envisioneering Group in Seaford,
New York. Cappuccio of Gartner said Apple may use the Maiden
facility for initiatives the company has yet to unveil or
discuss in detail, including social networking and  Web search .  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, hasn’t disclosed its
plans for the project.  Steve Dowling , a spokesman, declined to
comment.  The data center is already making a mark on Maiden, a town
with a population of 3,200 located about 45 miles west of
Charlotte.  ‘Project Dolphin’  In its pitch for approval and tax breaks, Apple said it may
employ 50 people at the center and expects to generate 250 more
jobs in areas such as maintenance and security, according to a
state  website  and  records compiled  by the city and surrounding
 Catawba County . North Carolina projected the creation of an
additional 3,000 jobs related to construction of the center.  Maiden and Catawba County may receive $9.3 million in taxes
and other revenue over 10 years, according to the documents.
That includes $5.1 million for Maiden, which has an annual
budget of $13.1 million, and $4.2 million for Catawba, which has
an annual $202.2 million  budget .  Locals aim for added payoff from “Project Dolphin,” as
officials have dubbed the center: that Apple will lure other
companies.  Google Inc. , owner of the world’s largest search
engine, already has a facility in a neighboring county.  Microsoft, Google Centers  “Names like Google and Apple indicate you’re in the 21st
century and open for business, so we hope to propel this to
something greater,” said  Kitty Barnes , chairman of the Catawba
County Board of Commissioners.  U.S. technology companies increasingly are setting up shop
in small-town America.  Microsoft Corp. , Facebook Inc. and
Twitter Inc. all are placing data centers in sparsely populated
regions, drawn by tax incentives, inexpensive labor, cheap
electricity and abundant space.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, weighs more than
35 different issues when selecting a site, said Kevin Timmons,
 general manager  of the company’s data center operations. The
company plans to build a $500 million data facility in Virginia,
Governor  Bob McDonnell ’s office  said  in August.  “Topping the list were factors such as its close proximity
to our customers, fiber-optic networks, a large pool of skilled
labor and an affordable energy source,” Timmons said.  Apple Tax Breaks  Data centers have helped bring 3,100 jobs and more than
$3.6 billion in capital investments to Virginia since 2006, said
Rob McClintock, director of research at the  Virginia Economic
Development Partnership .  “Everybody understands these projects by themselves
aren’t a panacea, but it’s the window of what the future can
be,” McClintock said.  To land its Apple facility, North Carolina’s legislature
approved $46 million in tax breaks for the company. Local
governments also trimmed Apple’s real property taxes by half and
slashed personal property taxes by 85 percent,  records show .  Some local officials say companies, not communities,
benefit most as big providers locate operations in rural areas.  “I have a problem with government giving large
multinational corporations millions of dollars in handouts,”
said T.J. Rohr, a  city councilman  in Lenoir, North Carolina,
site of a $600 million Google data center lured by  incentives .  While Google has been a “good corporate neighbor,”
funding Wi-Fi downtown and donating computers to local schools,
tax breaks are “a lazy way to recruit business,” said Rohr,
who is a member of the  Libertarian  party.  Combating Joblessness  Google has hired more than 80 employees at the site, said
spokeswoman Emily Wood.  “We’ve had an excellent experience in Lenoir,” Wood wrote
in an e-mailed statement.  Scott Millar , president of the  Catawba County Economic
Development Corp , who led the county’s discussions to attract
Apple to North Carolina, says companies are unlikely to choose a
location without a financial incentive package. Millar also
acted as the liaison between the Fulbrights and Apple.  Catawba County’s August  unemployment rate  was 12.3 percent,
compared with 9.7 percent  in the state , according to the  North
Carolina Employment Security Commission . For much of the 1990s,
the county had an unemployment rate of less than 5 percent,
fueled by jobs making furniture, fiber-optic cables and textiles
such as socks and pantyhose, Millar said.  “We’re trying to turn our ship around,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 