-- Apple, Michaels, Kiewit, Ohio State, K&L Gates: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-10-05T11:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/apple-michaels-kiewit-ohio-state-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc.  is challenging a jury
verdict in which the computer maker was ordered to pay as much
as $625.5 million to Mirror Worlds LLC for infringing patents
related to how documents are displayed digitally.  Apple asked U.S. District Judge Leonard Davis for an
emergency stay of the Oct. 1 verdict, saying there are
outstanding issues on two of the three patents. Apple said
patent owner Mirror Worlds would also be “triple dipping” if
it were able to collect $208.5 million on each of the patents.  Closely held Mirror Worlds, founded by Yale University
computer-science Professor David Gelernter, sued in 2008,
claiming Apple’s iPod music device, iPhone and Mac computers
infringed its patents for a way documents are displayed on a
computer screen. Apple challenged the validity of the patents
and whether they were infringed, according to court records.
Some claims were thrown out before the case went to the jury.  The trial focused on the Spotlight, Time Machine and Cover
Flow features in Apple’s Mac operating systems. Cover Flow lets
users scroll through album cover art when browsing for music in
their iTunes library. The feature also works for documents,
pictures and other material stored in a computer.  Spotlight searches the computer’s hard drive, while Time
Machine automatically saves copies of files.  The $625.5 million award is the second-biggest jury verdict
in 2010, and the fourth-biggest patent verdict in U.S. history.
The largest jury verdict this year, for $677 million against
nursing home company  Skilled Healthcare Group Inc. , later
settled for $50 million.  An Apple lawyer, Jeffrey Randall of Los Angeles-based  Paul
Hastings Janofsky & Walker LLP , told jurors in closing arguments
that the Mirror Worlds patents had been sold, first for $210,000
and then $5 million, and weren’t worth any more than that,
according to a transcript in the court record.  The judge in the case has asked the Apple and Mirror Worlds
lawyers to submit legal arguments on the damages awarded by the
federal jury in Tyler, Texas, according to the Oct. 3 Apple
filing.  The arguments are needed “in light of counsel for Mirror
Worlds’ erroneous and objectionable suggestion that, among other
things, damages should be cumulative while at the same time
suggesting that Mirror Worlds was not ‘triple-dipping,’” Apple
said.  Apple had $45.8 billion in cash and securities as of June
26. Officials at Apple didn’t return messages seeking additional
information on the filing.  The judge also is considering Apple’s request, filed before
the verdict, to rule that the company doesn’t infringe two of
the patents. The judge said that if he granted that request,
he’d strike the amount of damages attributed to those two
patents.  Gelernter wrote “Mirror Worlds: or the Day Software Puts
the Universe in a Shoebox” and “Drawing Life: Surviving the
Unabomber,” about his recovery from a bomb sent by Theodore
Kaczynski in 1993 that damaged his right hand and eye.  Mirror Worlds LLC, the legal entity that filed the
complaint, is incorporated in Tyler, Texas, according to the
complaint. Lawyers for the company declined to comment yesterday
day or Oct. 1 when asked about the verdict and the amount of
damages.  The case is Mirror Worlds LLC v. Apple Inc., 08cv88, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Michaels Sued by Jewelry Artist Over Sales of Ceramic Pendants  Michaels Stores Inc. , the Texas-based chain of craft
stores, was sued for copyright infringement by a Pennsylvania
jewelry designer.  Joan C. Miller of Fleetwood, Pennsylvania, said Michaels is
selling ceramic charms that are knockoffs of her copyrighted
designs. The charms are bought by customers who incorporate them
into jewelry they make, according to the complaint filed Oct. 1
in federal court in Cleveland, Ohio.  She said her designs aren’t sold for mass production or
commercial use other than as components in handmade jewelry sold
by artisans. The allegedly infringing products are in more than
1,000 retail Michaels stores and on the company website,
according to court papers.  Miller said she heard from customers that her designs were
being sold at Michaels under the “Meadow Grove” brand and that
the packaging listed Michaels Stores as the manufacturer.  She says she’s harmed by the sale of the alleged knockoffs,
causing her irreparable harm and loss of “substantial
revenue.” She asked the court to order Michaels to quit selling
the allegedly infringing product, and to abandon any
applications to register the copyrights on these products. She
also seeks recall of any infringing products and ads, and their
destruction.  Miller also asked for money damages and Michaels’ profits
attributable to the sale of what she says are the infringing
products. She also asked for extra damages to punish the craft-
store chain for its actions, and for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  She is represented by Tammy L. Browning-Smith of the Law
Offices of Browning-Smith PC of Amherst, Ohio.  The case is Miller V. Michaels Stores Inc., 1:10-cv-0225-
SO, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Ohio (Cleveland).  Copyright-Enforcement Law Firm Hit With Web Attack, Bomb Threat  Dunlap Grubb & Weaver PLLC , a Leesburg, Virginia-based law
firm that filed multiple copyright infringement suits against
alleged BitTorrent downloaders, received a bomb threat Sept. 30,
 according to  the TorrentFreak website.  The bomb threat, e-mailed to the firm, came after the
firm’s website was taken down Sept. 29 following a denial-of-
service attack called for by an anonymous group of Internet
users, TorrentFreak reported.  The firm’s office was evacuated and searched by law
enforcement officials accompanied by dogs trained to detect
explosives, according to TorrentFreak.  The police haven’t found a direct link between the firm’s
anti-piracy activities and the bomb threat, TorrentFreak
reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Kiewit Sues Florida Business Broker for Trademark Infringement  Peter Kiewit Sons’ Inc., the Omaha, Nebraska-based
construction company, sued a Florida-based business broker for
trademark infringement.  Wall Street Equity Group Inc.  of Pompano Beach, Florida, is
accused of using the Kiewit name when making representations to
potential clients. According to the complaint filed Sept. 30 in
federal court in Omaha, the Florida company implied that Kiewit
is an interested buyer of whatever business Wall Street Equity
Group’s potential clients are trying to sell.  In April, according to court papers, the Florida company
provided a “background on the buyer, Kiewit” to Hladky
Construction Co., of Gillette, Wyoming. The accused company then
offered to conduct an appraisal for between $25,000 and $35,000,
Kiewit said in its court papers.  Kiewit said a different company attempted a similar
transaction in 2008 and that Shepherd Friedman -- one of the
defendants named in this case -- was the operator of the company
in the earlier situation. In that case, Kiewit said, the target
company was Waterfront Marine Construction Co.  After Kiewit complained in that case, it received a
response letter attesting that any representation of Kiewit as a
potential buyer wouldn’t occur again. Kiewit said there could be
“tens, hundreds or thousands of other instances” in which
Friedman or one of his companies “made misrepresentations and
perpetrated a similar scheme predicated upon the false hope that
Kiewit is an interested buyer.”  The result of these actions, Kiewit claims, “is that the
business owner/seller ends up out of money and disappointed”
that Kiewit doesn’t have a bona fide interest in making the
business purchase. In return, the disappointed seller
“associates Kiewit with the unpleasant business transaction,”
according to court papers.  Wall Street Equity Group, according to its website, is a
“leading investment bank with extensive expertise in mergers,
acquisitions and divestitures for clients.” It didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mailed request for comment. The company
website offers a free DVD, “How to sell your business quickly
at the highest price possible.”  In addition to seeking a court order barring the defendants
from using the Kiewit name to suggest some false association,
the construction company asked the court for money damages,
including profits from Wall Street Equity Group’s products
related to its alleged infringement.  Kiewit asked that the damages be tripled to punish the
defendants for their actions, and for awards of attorney fees
and litigation costs.  The Nebraska construction company is represented by  Michael
F. Coyle  and  Rebecca A. Zawisky  of  Fraser Stryker PC LLP  of
Omaha.  The case is Peter Kiewit Sons’ Inc. v. Wall Street Equity
Group Inc., 8:10-cv-00365-CRZ, U.S. District Court, District of
Nebraska (Omaha).  Ohio State Sues Publisher of Football Yearbook for Infringement  Ohio State University sued a Massachusetts magazine
publisher for trademark infringement.  The suit is related to  Maple Street Press LLC ’s publication
of “Buckeye Battle Cry,” a publication about football at the
school, according to the complaint filed Oct. 1 in federal court
in Columbus, Ohio.  The magazine misappropriates the school’s registered
trademark for the university fight song, and uses the trademark
“Buckeyes” throughout the publication without authorization.
Other Ohio State trademarks, trade dress and content are also
used without permission, the complaint alleges.  The accused publication is also competitive with Ohio
State’s own athletics publications, the school says in its court
papers.  According to the Scituate, Massachusetts-based publisher’s
website, it also publishes specialty sports guides for the
Universities of Connecticut and North Carolina basketball teams;
football teams from the Universities of Wisconsin, Tennessee,
Nebraska, Alabama, Texas, Michigan and Notre Dame; and a number
of National Football League teams.  Ohio State asked the court for an order barring the company
from use of the school’s trademarks, and for awards of money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs. The school also
requested a list of all retailers, distributors and agents to
which Maple Street Press supplied copies of the allegedly
infringing publication. Ohio State also requested a tripling of
the damages to punish the publisher for its actions.  The university is represented by Ohio Attorney General
 Richard Cordray  and  Mary R. True  and  Joseph R. Dreitler  of
 Bricker & Eckler LLP  of Columbus.  The case is The Ohio State University v. Maple Street Press
LLC, 2:10-cv-00890-ALM-TPK, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Ohio (Columbus).  The Gap Sues Gapnote Social Media Site for Infringing Marks  The Gap Inc. , the San Francisco-based clothing chain with
more than 3,000 stores, sued an Arizona-based website and its
operator for trademark infringement.  Greg Murphy of Tempe, Arizona, is accused of infringing the
clothing chain’s trademarks by operating the  Gapnote website ,
and a Gapnote listing on Facebook Inc.’s social-media site.  The 41-year-old clothing chain objects both to the
Gapnote.com name and to the fact that the name is “presented in
an identically or substantially similar font” as it commonly
uses for its Gap mark. It accused Murphy and his site of
attempting to “trade off the significant goodwill” and
“strong public recognition” of the Gap marks.  The Gap asked the court to order Murphy and his site to
quit infringing the Gap marks, and not to pursue any attempts to
register Gapnote as a trademark. It also requested orders for
destruction of all infringing materials, and for awards for
money damages and Gapnote’s profits that can be attributed to
its alleged infringement.  The company also asked for extra damages to punish Murphy
for his actions, and for awards of attorney fees and litigation
costs.  The Gap is represented by  Noel M. Cook  and  Alica Dell Valle 
of San Francisco’s  Owen Wickersham & Erickson PC  and Giselle Woo
and James D. Weinberger of New York’s Fross Zelnick Lehrman &
Zissu PC.  The case is The Gap Inc. v. Murphy, 3:10-cv-04354-EDL, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  K&L Gates Adds Life-Sciences Specialist in Boston Office  K&L Gates LLP  hired Shann Kerner for its IP practice group,
the Pittsburgh-based firm said in a  statement .  Kerner  joins from Washington-based  Wilmer Cutler Pickering
Hale & Dorr LLP . She does patent acquisition, counseling and
transactional work related to life-sciences IP.  Her clients are from the fields of cancer, disorders, early
and late-stage disease diagnostics and therapeutics,
gastroenterology, neurology, nanotechnologies, ophthalmology,
pharmaceuticals and medical devices.  Before she was a lawyer, Kerner was a faculty member at
Harvard Medical School and held a joint appointment at Boston’s
Children’s Hospital.  She has an undergraduate degree in biology from Boston
University, a doctorate in molecular biology and biochemistry
from the University of Connecticut Medical School and a law
degree from Suffolk University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 