-- ArcelorMittal Sues Singapore Trader for Steel Stolen to Finance Gambling
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-10-05T04:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/arcelormittal-sues-singapore-trader-for-steel-stolen-to-finance-gambling.html
ArcelorMittal Singapore Pte , claiming
a former warehouse manager stole steel products and sold them at
a discount to fund his gambling, sued scrap metal trader Guan
Peng Hardware Pte for the return of the goods.  Low Kok Leong stole about 4,000 metric tons of steel
products valued at $7 million and sold them to four companies
including Guan Peng at a fraction of their actual value,
according to lawsuit filed with the Singapore High Court last
month. Low has admitted to the theft, according to the suit.  The Singapore unit of the world’s largest steelmaker said
in the suit that Guan Peng offered to return 500 metric tons of
steel, and that it failed to disclose another 700 tons. Low has
been charged with  criminal breach of trust  and faces a jail term
of as long as 15 years, according to the suit.  Guan Peng Managing Director Ng Boon Tin said he paid Low in
cash checks for the goods, according to court papers. Ng
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment at his office.  Lynn Robbroeckx , a London-based spokeswoman for
ArcelorMittal, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment
outside office hours.  Two casinos opened in Singapore this year after a four-
decade ban was lifted, to help boost tourism revenue and shed
what Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong called an “unexciting
image.” Lee in 2002 rejected a proposal for casinos, saying
they could lead to “undesirable activities” such as money
laundering, illegal lending and organized crime.  Singapore’s government last month stopped all bus shuttle
services between local town centers and the casinos, saying
promotional efforts should be confined to tourists. The
Southeast Asian nation, which is planning to review its rules
governing casinos, has also set up the Casino Crime
Investigation Branch and a  National Council on Problem Gambling .  The case is ArcelorMittal Singapore Pte v Guan Peng
Hardware Pte S677/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  