-- Argentine Tax Agency Denies Seeking Arrests of Bunge Company Executives
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2010-10-05T20:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/argentine-tax-agency-denies-seeking-arrests-of-bunge-company-executives.html
Argentina’s tax agency is “not
planning” to seek arrests for  Bunge Ltd.  executives on tax
charges, said an agency official.  The official, who can’t be named in accordance with
government policy, denied a  report  earlier today by local news
website Infobae.com that said the agency is considering seeking
arrests of company executives of the local unit.  Bunge, Argentina’s second-biggest exporter, had its Buenos
Aires office raided on Oct. 1 after Judge Carlos Ochoa initiated
an investigation based on a request by the tax agency, known as
AFIP. Bunge denied that it evaded taxes in an Oct. 1 statement.
Bunge is “cooperating fully with the authorities,” U.S.-based
spokeswoman Susan Burns said in an e-mail the same day. Burns
didn’t reply to two telephone calls and an e-mail sent today
seeking comment.  Bunge owes more than 1 billion pesos ($252 million) of
income tax for the past three years,  Ricardo Echegaray , the head
of AFIP, told reporters yesterday in Buenos Aires.  “Bunge may have evaded 1.2 billion pesos in income tax,”
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner   said in a
post  on her Twitter account today. “Unbelievable, the more they
earn, the more they evade,” she said.  Tax Dispute  AFIP has the right to request arrests after a judge rules
that the company evaded taxes, the tax agency official said.  Argentina’s tax agency last month said that four of the
South American country’s 10 biggest exporters and cereals and
soybean processors underpaid taxes. The agency didn’t name the
companies in the report, which was published on its website.  Argentina is the world’s largest exporter of soy oil. Bunge
was the country’s largest exporter of edible oils in 2009,
according to a report by JJ Hinrichsen SA, a Buenos Aires-based
researcher.  Bunge , based in White Plains, New York, rose 21 cents, or
0.36 percent, to close at $57.84 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares earlier dropped as much
as 4.9 percent after the Infobae.com report was published.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  