-- Japan Stocks Rally, Yen Weakens as Central Bank Steps Up Stimulus Efforts
-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y
-- 2010-10-05T07:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/asian-stocks-fall-on-australia-interest-rate-speculation-commodities-drop.html
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  jumped
the most in three weeks, the yen fell against 13 of the 16 most-
traded currencies and government bonds rallied after the Bank of
Japan cut benchmark interest rates and pledged to buy 5 trillion
($60 billion) of assets. Asian stocks pared losses.  The Nikkei 225 climbed 1.5 percent, erasing a 0.5 percent
decline, to 9,518.76 as of 4 p.m. in Tokyo. The yen dropped to
83.68 per dollar from 83.36 in New York. Japanese 10-year bond
yields fell to a six-week low. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  sank
0.2 percent. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures lost less than
0.1 percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 decreased 0.2 percent to
257.36 as Moody’s Investors Service placed Ireland’s debt
ratings on review for possible downgrade.  The Bank of Japan’s decision to create a fund to buy bonds
and other assets comes as policy makers in the U.S. and the U.K.
consider similar steps to support their flagging economies. At
the same time, governments in emerging markets from Brazil to
South Korea are increasing currency controls as investment
inflows threaten export growth.  “We’re looking to high-growth economies in both fixed and
equity space,” Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross ,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . Pimco’s
“new normal” thesis “suggests low growth in the developed
economies and higher growth in the developing economies.”  Five stocks advanced for every four that fell on the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index, which gained 0.7 percent in the past two
days. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.4 percent after
the central bank signaled it will raise interest rates as it
left its overnight  cash-rate  target unchanged.  BOJ Pledges  Japan’s Topix Index climbed 1.2 percent, rallying from a
0.7 percent drop as the central bank’s pledges today raised
optimism that the yen will weaken, bolstering the value of
overseas sales at the country’s biggest exporters.  The Bank of Japan said its fund will buy government bonds
and other assets. The central bank also lowered the benchmark
interest rate to a range of zero percent to 0.1 percent from the
previous 0.1 percent target. Fourteen of 17 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News had instead predicted the BOJ would expand a
bank-loan program.  “This shows a commitment by the Japanese authorities to do
whatever they can at their disposal to not allow the yen to
appreciate anymore and provide liquidity,” said  Nader Naeimi , a
Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages $85 billion. “Any measure to increase liquidity or
loosen monetary situation is a step in the right direction.”  Sony, Toyota  Sony Corp. , the maker of Bravia televisions, jumped 1.4
percent. Fanuc Ltd., Japan’s largest industrial robot maker,
gained 2 percent. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest
carmaker, gained 0.4 percent after falling as much as 1.5
percent earlier.  The yen was set for its biggest daily decline against the
dollar since Sept. 15. Japan’s currency fell to 114.71 per euro
from 114.08.  “The BOJ action came as a surprise because I had expected
they wouldn’t cut rates before the Federal Reserve,” said
 Junichi Makino , a senior economist at Daiwa Institute of
Research Ltd. in Tokyo. “The BOJ moved to back up intervention
efforts by the government.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond fell three basis
points to 0.905 percent at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The price rose 0.276 yen to
100.867 yen. The yield dropped to as low as 0.895 percent, the
least since Aug. 25.  Raw Materials  Raw-material companies  fell the most among the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index’s 10 industry groups as metal prices declined.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest mining company, lost 1.3
percent in Sydney. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest
mining company, sank 1.4 percent.  Copper slid 0.4 percent to $8,035 a metric ton in London,
while aluminum sank 1.1 percent. Copper futures sank 0.7 percent
yesterday in New York, the biggest loss since Sept. 10. Oil for
November delivery declined 0.3 percent to $81.25 a barrel.  Alumina Ltd., which has a venture with Alcoa Inc., dropped
1.1 percent after Deutsche Bank AG put  Alcoa  on its short-term
“sell” list. Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum company,
unofficially starts the U.S. earnings season on Oct. 7.  Hankook Tire Co.  slumped 4.4 percent in Seoul after Nomura
Holdings Inc. lowered its rating on South Korea’s biggest tire
maker to “neutral” from “buy,” citing recent gains in the
shares and higher natural rubber prices.  Government Intervention  Taiwan’s dollar advanced for a fifth day before a
government report this week that may show exports increased for
an 11th straight month. The currency appreciated 0.5 percent to
NT$31.093 against its U.S. counterpart.  The central bank may have intervened yesterday, selling at
least NT$20 billion ($643 million) to curb the rise in the
currency, the Economic Daily News reported. Brazil yesterday
doubled a tax it charges foreigners on investment in fixed-
income securities in a bid to stem gains in the real, which
reached its strongest in more than two years last week.  South Korea’s won depreciated 0.7 percent to 1,130.58 per
dollar, the biggest loss since Aug. 24, after the government
announced that regulators will conduct an audit of banks’
foreign-exchange businesses. The nation is prepared to battle
speculators as needed by intervening in the currency market, the
finance ministry said in a report yesterday.  Thailand’s baht slid 0.1 percent to 30.20 per dollar,
retreating from a 13-year high. Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
said yesterday policy makers are working to curb any “excess
volatility” in the baht.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Darren Boey  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net . 