-- Asian Stocks Advance, Reversing Declines After Bank of Japan Reduces Rate
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2010-10-05T08:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/asian-stocks-decline-for-first-time-in-three-days-after-u-s-rating-cuts.html
Asian  stocks  rose, reversing declines
in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index after Japan cut its benchmark
interest rate and Australia unexpectedly kept its rate unchanged
for the fifth straight month.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s largest
publicly traded bank, climbed 2.4 percent in Tokyo, overturning
a 1.1 percent drop after the Bank of Japan pledged to keep rates
at “virtually zero” and to expand bond purchases.  Commonwealth
Bank  of Australia and other lenders pared losses in Sydney,
while  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest mining company,
lost 1.3 percent as oil and metal prices slid.  “This shows a commitment by the Japanese authorities to do
whatever they can,” said  Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based
strategist at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages about
$85 billion. “It’s positive for equity markets and a step in
the right direction.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.2 percent to 127.46 as
of 5:29 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than five stocks advancing for
every four that declined. The gauge dropped 0.9 percent before
the rate decisions. The index has climbed 17 percent from its
low this year on May 25 amid signs a U.S. economic recovery is
stabilizing and will support global growth.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average jumped 1.5 percent,
reversing a slump of 0.5 percent for the biggest move among
equity benchmarks in the Asia-Pacific region. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index retreated 0.4 percent, paring a drop of 1.4
percent after the Reserve Bank of Australia announcement.  Hong Kong, U.S.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  gained 0.1 percent as a 6.9
percent climb by China Life Insurance Co. countered declines by
property developers. Taiwan’s Taiex index dropped 0.6 percent.
Mainland China’s markets were closed for a holiday.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  increased 0.2
percent. The index lost 0.8 percent in New York yesterday after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its ratings on  Microsoft  Corp., J.C.
Penney Co. and Macy’s Inc. Deutsche Bank AG put  Alcoa Inc.  on
its short-term “sell” list before the largest U.S. aluminum
company starts the third-quarter earnings season on Oct. 7.  Mitsubishi UFJ gained 2.4 percent to 391 yen in Tokyo and
was the most-active stock by value in Japan. The Bank of Japan
pledged to expand its balance sheet by 5 trillion yen ($60
billion), aiming to shore up the nation’s slowing economic
recovery, and lowered the benchmark interest rate to a range of
zero percent to 0.1 percent from the previous 0.1 percent target.  Yen Depreciation  Canon Inc. , which is the world’s largest camera maker and
gets more than 80 percent of its revenue abroad, climbed 0.4
percent in Tokyo, inverting a drop of 0.9 percent. The yen
depreciated following the Bank of Japan’s announcement, boosting
the prospects for export earnings.  Honda Motor Co. , a carmaker that derives almost 85 percent
of its sales abroad, rose 0.3 percent after a 2.2 percent drop.
T&D Holdings Inc., a life insurer, soared 5.6 percent, the
 biggest increase  in the Nikkei 225.  The Japanese gauge’s move from today’s low to high was the
biggest since Sept. 15, when the government said it intervened
in the foreign-exchange market to weaken the yen for the first
time since 2004.  “It was a big surprise that the Bank of Japan lowered the
key interest rate and decided to purchase more assets,” said
 Kenichi Hirano , general manager and strategist at Tachibana
Securities Co. “That weakened the yen, and investors started
buying shares at once.”  Cash Target       Commonwealth Bank  slipped 0.6 percent to A$51.25 in Sydney,
paring a loss of 1.4 percent, and  Westpac Banking Corp.  reversed
a 1.9 percent decrease to close down 0.9 percent at A$23.11.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens kept the
overnight cash rate target at 4.5 percent, as forecast by only
six of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Stevens said
it’s likely higher borrowing costs will be needed “at some
point.”  Phone companies gained the most among the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index’s 10 industry groups.  KDDI Corp. , Japan’s second-largest
mobile-phone-network operator, jumped 5.4 percent to 410,000 yen,
its biggest gain since April 1, as HSBC Holdings Plc increased
its investment rating to “overweight” from “neutral.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has risen 5.4 percent this year
on speculation growth in profits will weather Europe’s debt
crisis, Chinese steps to curb property-price inflation and
concern about the pace of the U.S. economic rebound. Stocks in
the gauge trade at 14.2 times estimated earnings on average,
compared with 13.6 times for the S&P 500 and 11.8 times for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Commodity Shares Drop  Raw-material companies  fell the most among the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index’s 10 industry groups today. BHP Billiton, also
Australia’s largest oil producer, lost 1.3 percent to A$39.50.
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company, sank
1.4 percent to A$77. Alumina Ltd., which has a venture with
Alcoa, dropped 1.1 percent.  Copper declined for a second day after futures for December
delivery slid 0.7 percent in New York yesterday, the biggest
loss for a most-active contract since Sept. 10. Oil for November
delivery fell 0.1 percent yesterday to settle at $81.47 a barrel.
Aluminum snapped five days of gains today, decreasing 0.8
percent to $2,345 a ton.  Caltex Australia Ltd. , the country’s biggest oil refiner,
slumped 3.6 percent to A$11.56 in Sydney. Deutsche Bank cut its
rating to “sell” from “hold” in a research note that cited
“powerful headwinds,” including weakening margins and a
stronger Australian dollar.  Asustek Computer Inc.  fell 3.1 percent to NT$221 in Taipei
after the maker of low-cost computers was lowered to “neutral”
from “buy” at UBS AG by Arthur Hsieh, an analyst.  Olam International Ltd., one of the world’s three biggest
suppliers of cotton, lost 3.2 percent to S$3.20 in Singapore
after Kim Eng Securities Pte cut its stock rating to “hold”
from “buy” yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 