-- Australia’s Households, Firms More ‘Cautious,’ RBA’s Ellis Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-05T22:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/australia-s-households-firms-more-cautious-reserve-bank-s-ellis-says.html
Australia’s consumers and companies
are showing more caution than before the global financial crisis,
even as a mining boom stokes the nation’s economy, a central
bank official said.  “Our reading of recent data is that the Australian
household and business sectors have, in aggregate, entered a
phase of expansion,”  Luci Ellis , head of financial stability at
the Reserve Bank of Australia, said in prepared remarks in
Brisbane today. “But they seem to be showing more financial
caution than they did prior to the crisis.”  The central bank yesterday left its  benchmark interest rate 
unchanged at 4.5 percent for a fifth straight month, contrary to
predictions of most economists polled by Bloomberg News who
expected a quarter-point increase. The RBA predicts growth will
accelerate as demand from China for iron ore and energy spurs
investment spending by companies such as  Chevron Corp. , which is
building the A$43 billion ($41.8 billion) Gorgon liquefied
natural gas project in Western Australia.  “The outlook for mining company profits is particularly
strong, for obvious reasons,” Ellis told the CPA Congress 2010,
a conference of company executives. “But even before this
turnaround, many firms had been using their internal funds to
strengthen their finances, often to replace debt funding that
had become more expensive and less available.”  Rate Increases  Evidence is mounting that Australian households, which
account for more than half the economy, are spending less after
policy makers embarked on the most aggressive round of interest
rate increases by a Group of 20 member.  In the speech, Ellis said “a bit more” caution among
borrowers is “probably a good thing, in that it might buttress
their resilience to any future shocks that could come along.”
The Australian economy has emerged from the global financial
crisis in “reasonably good shape,” she said.  The RBA boosted its key rate to 4.5 percent in May, the
sixth increase from a half-century low of 3 percent in October
2009.  Retail sales  growth slowed in August to the weakest pace in
six months, rising 0.3 percent, and imports fell the most since
January 2009, the bureau of statistics said in reports published
yesterday. Homebuilding approvals fell in August by the most in
three months and credit growth stalled.  Housing  “The  housing market  has probably cooled somewhat,” Ellis
said today. “Growth in dwelling prices has tapered off in
recent months, especially in more expensive suburbs. Housing
credit growth has slowed. New lending to first-home buyers
reverted to closer to its historical share of loan approvals
after the additional government grants expired.”  In its twice-yearly financial stability review published
last week, the RBA said  Australia’s banking system  remains
strong, having weathered only a very mild downturn compared with
international experience over the past few years.  The nation’s banks are “well capitalized” and
profitability has “started recovering,” Ellis said today.  Half-year net profit after tax and minority interests at
the four largest Australian banks -- Commonwealth Bank of
Australia,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. , Westpac
Banking Corp., and National Australia Bank Ltd. -- jumped A$1.3
billion to A$9.9 billion from the comparable period a year
earlier, RBA figures show.  Ellis also said the global financial system is showing
“tentative improvement,” though markets remain concerned about
Greece and Ireland.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Brisbane at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  