-- Australia Unexpectedly Keeps Rates Unchanged; Currency Drops
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-10-05T04:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/australia-keeps-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-at-4-5-for-fifth-month.html
Australia’s central bank unexpectedly
left its benchmark interest rate unchanged for a fifth straight
month, triggering the biggest drop in the local dollar in almost
two months amid signs of cooling domestic demand.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  kept the
overnight cash rate target at 4.5 percent, as forecast by only
six of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, the RBA’s
statement showed in Sydney today. Stevens added that higher
borrowing costs will likely be needed “at some point.”  Evidence is mounting that households, which account for
more than half the economy, are spending less after policy
makers embarked on the most aggressive round of interest rate
increases by a Group of 20 member. Retail sales  growth  slowed in
August to the weakest pace in six months and job advertisements
in newspapers and on the Internet gained in September by the
smallest amount since April, reports showed today.  “Sanity has prevailed,” said  Roland Randall , an economist
at TD Securities Inc. in Singapore who correctly forecast
today’s decision. “We have soft credit growth and inflation
clearly running around the upper half of their band but not
uncomfortable as yet.”  Currency Declines  Australia’s currency fell to 95.78 U.S. cents as of 3:23
p.m. in Sydney from 96.83 cents in New York yesterday, heading
for its biggest decline since Aug. 11. It touched 97.51 cents on
Oct. 1, the highest level since July 2008. The currency dropped
to 80.02 yen from 80.71 yen.  While current borrowing costs are close to their average of
the past decade, Stevens said “if economic conditions evolve as
the board currently expects, it is likely that higher interest
rates will be required, at some point, to ensure that inflation
remains consistent with the medium-term target.”  Speculation intensified in recent weeks that Stevens would
boost borrowing costs before the end of the year, helping fuel
an 8.6 percent surge in Australia’s currency last month and
pushing it toward parity with its U.S. counterpart. The local
dollar is the best performer among the 16 most actively traded
currencies over the past 12 months.  Economic growth  is forecast to accelerate by the RBA as
demand from China for iron ore and energy spurs investment
spending by companies such as  Chevron Corp. , which is building
the A$43 billion ($41.6 billion) Gorgon liquefied natural gas
project in Western Australia.  Surge in Hiring  The boom is also fueling a hiring surge that threatens to
boost wages and increase inflation, which the central bank aims
to keep between 2 percent and 3 percent. Still, an  annual gauge 
of what the RBA calls core inflation, the weighted median, was
2.7 percent in the second quarter. Stevens said today that
inflation has “moderated from the excessive pace of 2008” and
that is likely to “continue in the near term.”  “Asset values are not moving notably in either direction,
and overall credit growth is quite subdued at this stage,
notwithstanding evidence of some greater willingness to lend,”
he said.  There are signs the bank’s six quarter percentage point
rate gains to 4.5 percent in May from a half-century low of 3
percent in October 2009 are damping demand.  Homebuilding approvals fell in August by the most in three
months, credit growth stalled, manufacturing contracted in
September for the first time this year, the services industry
shrank at the fastest pace in more than a year, and consumer
confidence declined, recent figures showed.  Retail Sales  Retail sales rose 0.3 percent in August, missing analysts’
forecasts for a 0.4 percent gain, and imports fell the most
since January 2009, the bureau of statistics said today.  “They haven’t got a need to rush at this point because all
the evidence is that inflation is around 2.75 percent,” said
 Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at Nomura Australia Ltd.,
who forecast today’s decision. “They recognize if things pan
out as forecast they’ll still need to raise rates further.
November is a much more likely time to start a hiking process.”  Citigroup Inc.’s  Joshua Williamson  is among analysts who
expect Stevens to add as much as 1.25 percentage points to the
benchmark rate over the next 12 to 14 months. By contrast, the
U.S. Federal Reserve, which has kept its main rate at a record
low since December 2008, has said it’s willing to ease monetary
policy further to spur growth.  Higher Australian borrowing costs would further restrain
the local property market, which the RBA said last week shows
“welcome signs” of cooling. The bank’s six increases to date
added about A$3,600 a year to repayments on an average A$300,000
mortgage.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said yesterday there isn’t “any
justification” for Australian lenders to boost their mortgage
rates by more than the central bank’s potential move. “Banks
are making healthy profits at the moment,” he said in a radio
interview with the Australia Broadcasting Corp.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia declined to say whether it
will alter its interest rates after the central bank’s decision.
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said there’s no
“immediate” reason to alter interest rates.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  