-- Australian LNG Projects Receiving Lower Prices for Fuel, Citigroup Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-05T06:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/australian-lng-projects-receiving-lower-prices-for-fuel-citigroup-says.html
Australian liquefied natural gas
projects are receiving lower prices for the fuel because of
increasing competition for customers, Citigroup Inc. said.  ConocoPhillips  and partner Origin Energy Ltd. are initially
set to commit to just one LNG production unit at their
Queensland project “given lack of demand,” Citigroup analysts
including Sydney-based  Mark Greenwood  wrote in a report.  “We are beginning to see more signs of a buyer’s market,”
the report said. Asian customers are also demanding bigger
stakes in the Australian projects when negotiating supply
contracts, according to the report dated yesterday.  Australia and Papua New Guinea have 16 LNG ventures
“jostling for position” to tap Asian demand for cleaner-
burning fuel, Citigroup said. The Origin and Conoco project,
Australia Pacific LNG, is among A$200 billion ($192 billion) of
proposed ventures in the country, according to figures from the
Australian Petroleum Production & Exploration Association.  The Origin and Conoco development is likely targeting China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as  Sinopec , and Petronet LNG
Ltd. of India as potential customers, Citigroup said.  Tim Scott , a spokesman for Origin in Sydney, said the
company doesn’t comment on “market speculation.”  Government Approvals  Origin, Australia’s second-largest electricity and gas
retailer, has reserves to support two production units and
expects federal and state approvals in the fourth quarter, it
said in a presentation last week. Origin aims to be “ready”
for a final investment decision at the end of the year, the
company said.  Origin and Houston-based Conoco may struggle to sell enough
LNG this year to justify two processing units,  John Hirjee , an
analyst at Deutsche Bank in Melbourne, said in August. The
companies may make a decision to proceed with the venture as
late as mid-2011, he said.  Origin was little changed at A$15.94 by the 4:10 p.m. close
in Sydney. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.4 percent.  “New LNG contracts are being signed at increasing
discounts to oil parity,” the Citigroup analysts said. “There
is an abundance of proposed capacity and numerous LNG projects
competing head to head for LNG contracts.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  is likely to sell fuel from the
proposed Prelude project in Australia to Korea Gas Corp. and
approve the venture for development in the first half of 2011,
the analysts said. Shell may sign an agreement with  Nexus Energy
Ltd.  to add reserves from the Crux project off northwest
Australia to the Prelude floating LNG venture, they wrote.  Chevron Corp.  may arrange gas supplies from Hess Corp. to
support an expansion of its proposed Wheatstone LNG project in
Western Australia, the analysts said. “We think Chevron is in a
good position to negotiate a deal with Hess.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 