-- Australia Consumer `Conservatism' Gives RBA Scope to Hold Rates
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-10-05T13:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/australia-consumer-conservatism-gives-rba-scope-to-hold-rates-this-year.html
Australian central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens  may have scope to keep interest rates unchanged
for the rest of the year after the most aggressive tightening by
a Group of 20 member damped consumer spending and housing.  Stevens and his board unexpectedly kept the  benchmark rate 
at 4.5 percent for a fifth month in Sydney yesterday, contrary
to predictions of a quarter-point increase from 19 of 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Higher rates will likely
be needed “at some point,” Stevens said without indicating a
timetable.  The nation’s currency dropped by the most in more than two
months as traders pared bets that Stevens this year will add to
his six rate increases since October 2009. Retail sales  growth 
slowed in August to the weakest pace in six months and
homebuilding approvals fell for the fourth month in five.  For consumers and businesses, “it is now all about living
within your means, cutting debt and squirreling money away,”
said  Craig James , a senior economist at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia in Sydney. “If this mood of new conservatism
continues to prevail, then the RBA will have more reason to stay
on the interest rate sidelines in coming months.”  BOJ’s Decision  Stevens’ decision to pause was announced just over an hour
before the Bank of Japan pledged to keep its benchmark interest
rate at “virtually zero” until the end of deflation is in
sight and to expand its balance sheet to shore up a slowing
economic recovery. The European Central Bank last week stepped
up its bond purchases, and policy makers at the U.S. Federal
Reserve are debating how to deploy tools for additional monetary
easing.  Australia’s currency fell to 95.76 U.S. cents as of 4:30
p.m. in Sydney from 96.83 cents in New York on Oct. 4, heading
for its biggest decline since Aug. 11. It touched 97.51 cents on
Oct. 1, the highest level since July 2008. The currency dropped
to 80.22 yen from 80.71 yen.  Traders also calculate a 50 percent chance of a quarter-
point boost to the benchmark rate before the end of the year,
based on interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange at 6
p.m. yesterday. Prior to the RBA policy announcement, the chance
of another increase in 2010 stood at 100 percent, futures
trading showed.  ‘Sanity’  “Sanity has prevailed,” said  Roland Randall , an economist
at TD Securities Inc. in Singapore, who correctly forecast the
decision. “We have soft credit growth and inflation clearly
running around the upper half of their band but not
uncomfortable as yet.”  Speculation that Stevens would boost borrowing costs before
the end of the year helped fuel an 8.6 percent surge in
Australia’s currency last month and pushing it toward parity
with its U.S. counterpart. The local dollar is the best
performer among the 16 most actively traded currencies over the
past 12 months.  While current borrowing costs are close to their average of
the past decade, Stevens said yesterday “if economic conditions
evolve as the board currently expects, it is likely that higher
interest rates will be required, at some point, to ensure that
inflation remains consistent with the medium-term target.”  China Demand  Economic growth  is forecast to accelerate by the RBA as
demand from China for iron ore and energy spurs investment
spending by companies such as  Chevron Corp. , which is building
the A$43 billion ($41.2 billion) Gorgon liquefied natural gas
project in Western Australia.  The boom is also fueling a hiring surge that threatens to
boost wages and increase inflation, which the central bank aims
to keep between 2 percent and 3 percent. Still, an  annual gauge 
of what the RBA calls core inflation, the weighted median, was
2.7 percent in the second quarter. Stevens said yesterday that
inflation has “moderated from the excessive pace of 2008” and
that is likely to “continue in the near term.”  “Asset values are not moving notably in either direction,
and overall credit growth is quite subdued at this stage,
notwithstanding evidence of some greater willingness to lend,”
he said. Third-quarter inflation figures are due Oct. 27.  Rate Increases  There are signs the bank’s six quarter percentage point
rate gains to 4.5 percent in May from a half-century low of 3
percent in October 2009 are damping demand.  Homebuilding approvals fell in August by the most in three
months, credit growth stalled, manufacturing contracted in
September for the first time this year, the services industry
shrank at the fastest pace in more than a year, and consumer
confidence declined, recent figures showed.  Retail sales rose 0.3 percent in August, missing analysts’
forecasts for a 0.4 percent gain, and imports fell the most
since January 2009, the bureau of statistics said yesterday.  “With the bank warning that rates will still need to rise,
the timing has become a month-by-month proposition,” said
 Warren Hogan , chief economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in Melbourne. “We still believe there is a strong
chance of one further rate rise in either November or
December.”  A spokeswoman for Commonwealth Bank declined to say
yesterday whether it will alter its interest rates after the
central bank’s decision. Spokespeople for ANZ Bank, National
Australia Bank Ltd. and Westpac Banking Corp. said they had no
plans to change rates.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  