-- Australia's Conroy Targets $3.8 Billion Saving From Telstra Broadband Role
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-10-05T04:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/australia-s-conroy-targets-3-8-billion-saving-from-telstra-broadband-role.html
Australia’s government may cut by 10
percent the projected cost of building a A$43 billion ($41.6
billion) nationwide high-speed Internet service by taking over
and replacing  Telstra Corp. ’s aging network.  “It is a commonly expected figure of savings of between
A$4 billion and A$6 billion,” Communications Minister  Stephen Conroy  said in an interview today in Canberra. "It clearly will
be cheaper because it means we don’t have to duplicate Telstra’s
existing infrastructure."  Legislation will be introduced to parliament in the final
two weeks of this month, Conroy, 47, said. NBN Co., the state-
run company building the new service, may submit its proposal
within a week, he added.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s plan to bring high-speed
Internet to some of Australia’s remotest corners drew fire ahead
of the Aug. 21 election for its cost. She clung to power by
forming a minority government with independent lawmakers from
rural regions who welcomed improved services.  Gillard’s proposal includes a non-binding agreement with
Melbourne-based  Telstra , the nation’s biggest phone company, to
shut down its copper wire network and transfer customers to NBN
in exchange for A$11 billion in compensation.  “Telstra is recommending it to shareholders and wouldn’t
recommend it if it didn’t think it was going to be good for the
company,” Conroy said.  Karina Keisler, a Telstra spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The broadband network is set to be completed by 2018,
laying fiber optics that would reach 93 percent of the
population, with the rest of the nation served by wireless and
satellite coverage. It is Australia’s biggest infrastructure
project, a comparable size to the A$42 billion stimulus the
government announced in February 2009 as it sought to protect
the nation from recession.  Fixed Fee  “As we close down one phone line and move it from copper
to fiber, it is a fixed fee per customer,” Conroy said of the
compensation package. More details “will be available in coming
weeks,” he said.  The government’s A$10 billion package for regional
development that helped woo the independent lawmakers after the
election resulted in a hung parliament does not affect NBN’s
cost, service and compensation to Telstra, Conroy said.  “NBN has been finalizing its business plan that will get
to us in the very near future and there will be a lot of
information we can put in to the market place that will deal
with the financial viability,” Conroy said. “When you see
those final figures, people will take a deep breath and say it
is good news.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  