-- Accused Tax Cheats Are Liars or Scapegoats, Jury Told
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   M o r t   L u c o f f
-- 2010-10-05T20:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/tax-trial-jury-hears-father-son-developers-are-either-liars-or-scapegoats.html
A father and son accused of hiding a
$33 million hotel sale from U.S. tax authorities were either
lying tax cheats or innocent scapegoats, jurors heard in closing
arguments before they began deliberations.  Prosecutors today said Mauricio Cohen Assor, 77, and Leon
Cohen Levy, 46, conspired to defraud the  Internal Revenue
Service  and file false tax returns that concealed income and
more than $150 million in assets.  Michael Pasano , their defense
lawyer, said the government offered an “Alice in Wonderland”
case built on flawed theories and lying witnesses.  The Cohens, who built hotels in Europe and New York under
the “ Flatotel ” brand, used offshore companies, friends and
family posing as owners, and forged documents to spin a “web of
lies” that hid their income, Mark Daly, a Justice Department
prosecutor, told the jury in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.  “You’ve been told the defendants never thought they would
break the law,” Daly said in his summation. “In reality, they
never thought they were going to get caught.”  Jurors, who began hearing evidence Sept. 15, started
deliberating after U.S. District Judge  William Zloch  instructed
them on the law. They will resume tomorrow.  Pasano said the Cohens, who took the witness stand to deny
the charges, were the victims of witnesses who lied about them
to protect themselves or nursed grudges. He said prosecutors
failed to prove they intended to break the law and offered
conflicting theories on whether they owned mansions and luxury
cars or merely had the use of them for business purposes.  ‘Alice in Wonderland’  “The government’s accusations simply make no sense,”
argued Pasano, of Carlton Fields in Miami. “It’s Alice in
Wonderland stuff. Black is white. Up is down. According to the
government, Mauricio Cohen and Leon Cohen never appeared as
owners of anything, so that must mean they must be owners.”  Daly said the Cohens went to great lengths to conceal
$33 million they got in the 2000 sale of the New York Flatotel
hotel. He said the men put the money in a Swiss account of  HSBC
Holdings Plc , Europe’s largest bank by market value, and failed
to tell the IRS.  He said they hid their ownership behind nominees while
having the money transferred to offshore accounts they
controlled. The men also hid their ownership of a company that
invested as much as $45 million, lived in Miami Beach mansions,
and drove luxury cars like a  Porsche Carrera GT  purchased for
$500,000, Daly said.  14 Years  The Cohens are charged with conspiracy and filing false tax
returns. Prosecutors say Leon Cohen falsely reported $45,000 in
income for 2004 and 2005 and $46,101 for 2007. He faces as many
as 14 years in prison. Mauricio Cohen falsely reported income of
$10,399 for 2004 and $41,821 for 2007, prosecutors say. He faces
as many as 11 years.  Daly said the Cohens received a legal opinion in 2002
saying they must pay taxes on the use of assets such as cars or
houses for business purposes. He said the men refused to tell
accountants whether they owned companies at the heart of the
trial. They did tell bankers that they owned the companies, when
they needed loans, Daly said.  Pasano said at least seven prosecution witnesses, including
Mauricio Cohen’s brother-in-law, lied to jurors about the
Cohens. He said other people, not the Cohens, owned the
companies, houses and cars in question, and that they accurately
reported their income to the IRS.  ‘Makes No Sense’  “Ownership is not a taxable event,” Pasano said. “If you
own, you don’t pay taxes for the house and the car. The
government’s theory just makes no sense.”  He said prosecutors failed to present witnesses who said
the Cohens intended to defraud the IRS.  “What witness came here and said they owed taxes for
living in the house or driving the car?” Pasano said. “No
one.”  The sale of the Flatotel in New York was “all a big
smokescreen” to obscure the fact that “the government’s
evidence doesn’t prove a tax crime,” Pasano argued.  Prosecutors said  Maurcio Cohen failed to report
$11.9 million in income including his use of a Rolls Royce and
mansion and earnings from a British Virgin Islands corporation,
Whitebury Shipping Time-Sharing Ltd. They say Leon Cohen failed
to report $4.4 million from use of his mansion and his use of
two Ferraris and two Porsches.  Tax-Cheat Behavior  In his rebuttal, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Jeffrey Neiman 
said the Cohens displayed the behavior of tax cheats by using
nominees and tax havens, failing to file returns, forging
documents, moving funds through multiple accounts and not
following advice of accountants and lawyers.  “Tax cheats don’t own anything despite living an
extravagant lifestyle and despite common sense and reason,”
Neiman said.  The Cohens are involved in litigation over the sale of the
Flatotel with CDR Creances SA, a company set up by the French
government to sell unprofitable businesses of  Credit Lyonnais
SA . Neiman said they fear losing $250 million in that case.  “If these defendants admit that they own anything to
anyone, including the IRS -- especially the IRS -- the entire
house of cards comes tumbling down,” Neiman said.  The case is U.S. v. Assor, 10-cr-60159, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Fort Lauderdale, Florida,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Mort Lucoff  in Fort Lauderdale
at  morsybil@bellsouth.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 