-- BA Logs Biggest Traffic Gain Since Lehman Collapse as Strike Threat Ebbs
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-10-05T16:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/ba-logs-biggest-traffic-gain-since-lehman-collapse-as-strike-threat-ebbs.html
British Airways Plc  rose the most in
11 months in London as demand in Europe, the Middle East and the
U.S. combined with a receding strike threat to send traffic to
the biggest jump since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Passenger travel rose 1.3 percent in September, the company
said today, the first gain since February and the largest since
August 2008, the month before Lehman’s demise signaled the
deepening of the recession and triggered a plunge in travel.  British Airways shares closed 6.5 percent higher at 254.6
pence in London, the biggest surge since Nov. 12, taking  gains 
this year to 36 percent and valuing Europe’s No. 3 airline at
2.94 billion pounds ($4.7 billion). Traffic was spurred by a 4.3
percent improvement in first- and business-class bookings.  “What we are seeing this year, as opposed to last, is that
people having had a summer break are keen to get back on the
road and keen to do business,” British Airways Treasurer  George Stinnes  said today on a conference call.  The biggest traffic increase was to the Middle East and
Africa, with a 5 percent jump, London-based British Airways
said. The U.K. and Europe posted a 3.8 percent gain, with the
Americas up 1 percent. Asia-Pacific travel fell 5.9 percent.  Traffic in coach class advanced 0.7 percent during the
month, which was more than expected, according to Stinnes.  Fares Boost  Yields, a measure of average ticket prices, were “strong”
across all cabins in September, and for the quarter as a whole
were “better” than in the three months through June, when they
rose 13 percent, the executive said.  Average fares will carry on increasing through the end of
the year, though not at double-digit rates, Stinnes said.  “Things are improving,” said  Gert Zonneveld , an analyst
at Panmure Gordon in London with a “hold” rating on British
Airways stock. “Premium traffic is on the way up after going
through a difficult period, though it may now become more
difficult to maintain yield premiums over time.”  Traffic at British Airways last advanced in February, when
it gained 1.1 percent before slumping in the next few months as
business was hurt by 22 days of strikes by cabin crew and a
volcanic ash cloud from Iceland, which closed European airports.  The last in a sequence of walkouts called by the Unite
union finished on June 9, and while the labor group has declined
to rule out further action in the dispute over staffing levels
and pay, it has continued to seek a return to negotiations.  British Airways Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh will tomorrow  launch a joint business on trans-Atlantic routes with
AMR Corp.’s American Airlines and Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana
SA, the Spanish carrier with which his company is merging.  The airlines won antitrust approval for the tie-up in July
on their third try after the plan was rejected in 1997 and 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  