-- Bahrain Telecom Studies Plans to Buy Stake in Zain Saudi Arabia, CEO Says
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-10-05T14:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/bahrain-telecom-studies-plans-to-buy-stake-in-zain-saudi-arabia-ceo-says.html
Bahrain Telecommunications Co. , the
nation’s largest phone company, also known as Batelco, is
studying plans to acquire a stake in Zain Saudi Arabia as part
of its expansion strategy, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Kaliaropoulos  said.  “Certainly, we’re exploring it,” Kaliaropoulos said in
an interview in Dubai today. “We’ve not been in direct
discussions with them, but our mergers and acquisitions people
are looking at the opportunity.”  The  National Bank of Kuwait SAK , the country’s biggest
lender, is in talks to help find a buyer for Mobile
Telecommunications Co.’s 25 percent stake in  Zain Saudi Arabia 
after it is purchased by Etisalat, a person familiar with the
discussions said yesterday.  The talks are taking place parallel to negotiations for
Etisalat to purchase a majority stake in  Mobile
Telecommunications , Kuwait’s biggest phone company, known as
Zain, the person said, declining to be identified because the
discussions are private.  Etisalat, as Emirates Telecommunications Corp. is known,
said last week that it plans to buy 46 percent of Zain and
offered 1.7 dinars ($6.00) a share for the stake.  “Would  Zain Saudi Arabia  fit into Batelco’s strategy? The
answer is yes, but the fundamentals and price have to be
right,” Kaliaropoulos said.  Qatar Telecom  Batelco’s interest in a Zain Saudi stake is “very
conditional,” Batelco said later in an e-mailed statement,
citing Kaliaropoulos. “Once there is clarity about the Zain
Etisalat opportunity, we will need to ensure that the business
fundamentals about valuing such an interest are sound,”
Kaliaropoulos said.  Qatar Telecom QSC  sees the purchase of Zain’s Saudi unit
as “something to be considered” as it studies growth
opportunities in the Middle East, Asia and North Africa, Marc
Aafjes, Qtel’s director of corporate strategy and intelligence,
said at a conference today in Dubai.  ‘Major Deals’  Batelco said in July that second-quarter net income
declined 20 percent as greater competition in its home market
eroded sales, even as customer numbers rose.  “We want to grow our business through acquisitions” and
Batelco is looking at “one or two major deals” it hopes to
complete in the next six months, Kaliaropoulos said. “We’re
looking at opportunities from South East Asia to North
Africa.” Batelco’s strategic focus remains the Middle East
region, he said.  Batelco  has the potential to raise as much as $1.5
billion, Kaliaropoulos said today. “We have no debt in our
company at all so we have the capability. That’s debt. We’re
going through a rating exercise as we speak,” he said.  Batelco is part of a group called Atheeb that provides
voice, data and broadband services across Saudi Arabia.  MTN Group Ltd., Africa’s largest mobile-phone operator,
may be interested in buying a 25 percent stake in Zain Saudi,
Kuwait’s Al-Rai newspaper reported Oct. 3, citing people
familiar with the matter.  Etisalat, based in Abu Dhabi, would have to sell its stake
in Zain Saudi since it already has a 27.4 percent stake in
Etihad Etisalat Co., the kingdom’s second-largest mobile-phone
company, known as Mobily.  “We are not excluding Zain Saudi Arabia as an option, but
we are not considering it at this stage,”  Amer al-Rawas , Chief
Executive Officer of Oman Telecommunications Co. said at a
conference in Dubai today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net 
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net .
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  