-- Bank of Canada's Macklem Says Financial Stability Needed for Stable Prices
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-05T18:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/bank-of-canada-s-macklem-says-financial-stability-needed-for-stable-prices.html
Bank of Canada Senior Deputy Governor
 Tiff Macklem  said there may be a role for monetary policy in
mitigating financial imbalances that threaten to spill over to
the entire economy.  Macklem, in a  speech  today in Montreal entitled
“Reflections on Monetary Policy After the Great Recession,”
said the recent financial crisis highlights how financial
stability is needed to achieve price stability.  “Prior to the crisis, many espoused the ‘clean doctrine’
that monetary policy should not be used to address financial
imbalances in the build-up phase, but rather should restrict
itself to cleaning up the mess when they unwind,” Macklem, 49,
said. “This approach looks less convincing in the wake of this
crisis.”  While the speech didn’t make references to the Canadian
economic outlook, Macklem said the recovery remains “modest”
in advanced economies and remains dependent on monetary and
fiscal stimulus.  “With fiscal policy expected to begin to withdraw stimulus
in the coming year, monetary policy is likely to remain
stimulative for some time,” Macklem said.  Macklem, a former deputy governor at the Ottawa-based
central bank, returned to become the No. 2 official on July 1
after serving as associate deputy minister in the finance
department. Today’s speech is his first at his new post.  Policy Agreement  Macklem and Governor  Mark Carney  will be involved in
discussions on whether the bank should seek to modify its goal
of setting monetary policy to keep inflation at 2 percent. An
 agreement  with the government expires at the end of next year,
and the bank is studying whether to adjust the goal.  The options include a lower inflation target, a switch to a
so-called price level target that would force policy makers to
make up for past misses and more focus on protecting financial
stability.  Answering audience questions after the speech, Macklem said
the bank would be cautious in making changes to its current
monetary policy framework. Deputy Governor  John Murray  said in
an Aug. 24 speech the success of the central bank’s current
inflation-target has set a “high bar” for potential changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Montreal at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 