-- Bank Risks Grow as Funding Pressures Loom, IMF Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-10-05T14:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/banking-risks-increase-as-more-funding-pressures-loom-imf-says.html
Banking risks have increased over the
past six months and governments must be ready to recapitalize or
restructure some institutions amid “imminent funding
pressures,” the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The IMF, while cutting its estimate for global asset
writedowns by about 4.3 percent, warned that confidence in the
financial industry has not fully returned after the European
debt crisis highlighted banks’ links to sovereign-debt risk.  “Funding is perhaps the major challenge confronting banks
at present everywhere,”  Jose Vinals , director of the IMF’s
monetary and capital markets department, told a news conference
in Washington in presenting the fund’s Global Financial
Stability Report. “But those challenges are more pronounced in
Europe.”  More than $4 trillion of bank debt will need to be rolled
over in the next two years, making it “a priority” to take
care of weaker financial institutions to help funding markets
return to normal, the IMF said.  A “forceful response” by European policy makers to the
Greece-borne sovereign debt crisis and their disclosure of
banks’ stress tests results have helped ease funding for
governments and banks, the IMF said. Still, IMF officials
estimate that sovereign risks remain high as investors continue
to focus on public debt burdens amid governments’ attempts to
narrow budget deficits.  ‘Achilles’ Heel’  “The global financial system is still in a period of
significant uncertainty and remains the Achilles’ heel of the
economic recovery,” the IMF said. “With the situation still
fragile, some of the public support that has been given to banks
in recent years will have to be continued.”  Plans to exit “unconventional” monetary and financial
policies may need to be delayed until the situation is more
“robust,” according to the institution. Vinals, the IMF
official, said that exit strategies must be “carefully
considered.”  “We do not see a risk of generalized asset bubbles in the
emerging markets at large, but we can see certain hot spots that
require close monitoring and in some cases policy action,”
Vinals said.  Banks have reduced the value of loans and securities by
$2.2 trillion since 2007, more than three-quarters of which had
been realized by mid-2010, down from the IMF’s April estimate of
$2.3 trillion, the fund said.  At the same time, the cost of credit-default protection for
financial institutions has increased, reflecting higher tensions
in the banking industry, the IMF said. Credit-default swaps for
banks of the euro region have risen above those of the U.S. and
the U.K. because of “the relatively greater pressure in
European banking systems from both sovereign risks and wholesale
funding strains,” it said.  ‘Funding Shock’  European banks are more vulnerable to a “funding shock”
than their U.S. counterparts, because they rely more on
interbank loans, debt markets and central bank credit lines for
day-to-day operations, the IMF said.  “If the economy recovers as planned and sovereign and bank
funding strains continue to subside, European banks should be
able to repair balance sheets and gradually rebuild capital
buffers,” the IMF said. “However, banks remain vulnerable to
periods of renewed stress.”  To retain access to funding markets, banks in “a number of
countries” in the region may need additional recapitalization
and higher quality capital, the IMF said.  Non-viable institutions also need to be taken care of and
announced restructuring plans must be implemented
“rigorously,” the IMF said, citing Germany’s landesbanken and
Spain’s regional savings banks as examples.  In the U.S., “although banks have been able to raise a
substantial amount of capital, and expected demands appear
manageable, some raising of  additional capital  may be needed to
reverse recent deleveraging trends and possibly to comply with
U.S. regulatory reforms,” the IMF said.  It also spotted “pockets of vulnerabilities” in the
banking system “as the real estate sector is prone to a double
dip.”  Particularly Uncertain  “The outlook for both residential and commercial property
appears to be particularly uncertain,” the fund said, while
stressing that most of the credit risk in U.S. housing has now
shifted to Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac .  In Japan, while a disruption in the government bond markets
appears unlikely in the short term, banks have “low capital and
weak profitability,” the IMF said.  In contrast, emerging markets “have proven very resilient
to sovereign and banking strains in advanced economies,” with
risks stemming from “strong” capital inflows that are likely
to increase, according to the report.  “Conditions in the  global financial system  now have the
potential of jumping from benign to crisis mode very rapidly,”
the IMF said. “Against this backdrop, policy makers should not
squander opportunities to strengthen and recapitalize banking
systems, address too-important-to-fail entities, reduce
contingent liabilities, and place sovereigns on a credible
fiscal path.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  