-- Bank of Japan, Fed Enter `Vicious Spiral' of Monetary Easing, Daiwa Says
-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2010-10-05T08:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/bank-of-japan-fed-enter-vicious-spiral-of-monetary-easing-daiwa-says.html
The Bank of Japan and the Federal
Reserve are in a “vicious spiral” of monetary easing as both
central banks seek to bolster economic growth, according to
Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo.  Japan’s central bank pledged today to keep its benchmark
interest rate at “virtually zero” until the end of deflation
is in sight and to expand its balance sheet in an effort to
shore up a slowing economic recovery. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the U.S. central bank’s first round of
large-scale asset purchases improved the economy and that
further buying of debt is likely to help more.  “The Bank of Japan has fallen into a vicious spiral with
the Fed in easing policy,” said  Maiko Noguchi , an economist at
Daiwa. “The BOJ’s next moves will depend on the Fed. The bank
will have no choice but steadily take easing measures, even
though they may be criticized as being too passive.”  The Bank of Japan will create a 5 trillion yen ($59.7
billion) fund to buy government bonds and other assets, it said
in a statement released today in Tokyo. It also lowered the
benchmark interest rate to a range of zero percent to 0.1
percent, from the previous 0.1 percent target.  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said last week the
outlook for U.S. job growth and inflation is “unacceptable”
and that the Fed will probably need to take action. The Federal
Open Market Committee next meets to decide policy Nov. 2-3.  Japan’s benchmark bonds gained after today’s BOJ decision,
pushing 10-year yields down four basis points to 0.895 percent,
matching a decade-year low marked on Aug. 25.  The difference in yield between 10-year yields in Japan and
the U.S. reached 1.55 percentage points today, holding near the
narrowest level since April 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeki Nozawa  in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  