-- Banks Gain to Strongest Since Europe Bailout: Credit Markets
-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-06T16:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/bank-spreads-shrink-to-least-since-before-europe-s-bailout-credit-markets.html
Bank bonds are the most expensive
relative to the debt of non-financial companies since before
European leaders crafted a $1 trillion bailout as concern eases
the region’s sovereign debt crisis will spark more losses.  Securities sold by lenders from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to BNP
Paribas SA yield 203 basis points more than government debt on
average, versus 148 for industrial companies, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show. The 55-basis-point gap has shrunk
from 88, or 0.88 percentage point, in May, led by gains in bonds
of French lenders BNP Paribas and Societe Generale SA.  The relative gains in bank bonds signal investors are
growing more confident the world’s biggest financial
institutions will weather the sovereign debt crisis. The
difference in spreads is the narrowest since April 26, two weeks
before the European Union and International Monetary Fund
unveiled a loan package to bail out the region’s most indebted
nations.  “A number of pretty significant uncertainties have been
addressed,” said  David Havens , a managing director and
financial institution debt analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
New York.  Barclays Bank Plc plans a benchmark offering of 10-year
subordinated notes denominated in U.S. dollars as soon as today,
according to a person familiar with the transaction who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set. Benchmark sales are
typically at least $500 million.  Basel Boost  New capital rules announced by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision on Sept. 12, designed to prevent a repeat of
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, gave bank
bonds an added boost.  “The new Basel guidelines and new financial regulations
implemented across developed markets are going to leave banks
less levered and less risky, and thus better credits,” Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. strategists led by  Charles Himmelberg  in New
York wrote in a Sept. 27 research report.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds worldwide instead of similar
maturity government debt was unchanged at 172 basis points, down
8 basis points from Sept. 1, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate index. The spread
has ranged from a low this year of 142 basis points in April to
a high of 201 in June. Average yields were 3.439 percent.  Bondholder Protection  A gauge of corporate credit risk in the U.S. fell for a
second day, dropping to the lowest in five months. Credit-
default swaps on the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 1.7 basis points
to a mid-price of 96.98, the lowest since May 3, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Before the seizure in credit markets sparked $1.8 trillion
in writedowns and losses at the world’s largest financial
institutions, investors afforded bank bonds a premium.  Their debentures traded at yields that averaged about 55
basis points more than government debt in the two years ended
June 30, 2007, compared with spreads of 85 basis points for
industrial companies, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  Now, investors are more confident the sovereign debt crisis
may be abating, limiting losses for banks at the same time
record low interest rates in the U.S, euro zone and Japan are
bolstering earnings.  ‘Bullish on Banks’  Bank bonds have gained 4.05 percent since June, compared
with 3.72 percent in the first half, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Corporates, Banking index shows. Returns on non-
financial debt have slowed, to 4.07 percent from 5.72 percent,
based on the firm’s Global Broad Market Industrial index.  Greek bonds were the top performers in Europe last quarter,
gaining about 3.9 percent, indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies show.
Financial companies in the S&P 500 are projected to post 28
percent profit growth in 2011, the most among 10 industries,
Bloomberg data show.  “The premium on bank bonds remains high, and that is among
the chief reasons we remain bullish on banks,” Himmelberg and
the other Goldman Sachs strategists wrote.  Average spreads on bank bonds have narrowed 48 basis points
since peaking this year on June 11, compared with a decline of
19 basis points for industrial debt, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch global index data.  Basel III  Subordinated debt, sold by banks as part of their buffer
against losses, has rallied the most since lenders were given an
incentive to redeem the hybrid securities early under proposed
capital rules known as Basel III.  “There was a lot of concern about what would be involved
in the Basel III regulations,” Nomura’s Havens said. “The
regulations that have come out will have the effect of reducing
risk at the banks, increasing liquidity and capitalization. All
of those are good things for bondholders.”  The MSCI World Financials Index’s 11.6 percent gain since
June 30 trails the 12.9 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index. In the first half, global financial shares fell 13
percent, as the broader index tumbled 11 percent.  “From an equity standpoint, the regulations were not
necessarily that positive,” said  John Hawley , who helps manage
$19 billion of investment-grade credit as a portfolio manager at
Aviva Investors in Des Moines, Iowa. “From a credit or
bondholder standpoint, we would view them as positive because
it’s going to require the banks to hold more capital and also
limit the amount of what is perceived to be riskier types of
business.”  Bill of Health  European regulators gave the region’s banks a clean bill of
health on July 23, saying that of 91 lenders subject to their
stress tests, accounting for 65 percent of the banking sector,
only Germany’s Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, Agricultural Bank of
Greece SA and five Spanish savings banks had inadequate capital
reserves.  Spreads on bonds of BNP Paribas, including subordinated
notes, have narrowed 153 basis points since May to an average
285 basis points, while debt of Societe Generale tightened 145
to 275, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. Bonds of
Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG, which was bailed out by Germany
during the financial crisis, have had the third-best
performance, with spreads shrinking 114 basis points to 190.  Gap Tightens  In the U.S., the gap between bank and industrial bonds has
tightened to 66 basis points from 114 in May. The spread is
within 11 basis points of the narrowest since March 2008.  Bank of America Corp. bond spreads have narrowed 58 basis
points to 248 since May, and JPMorgan spreads have decreased 29
to 166.  “The biggest standalone sector is financials,” said  Tad Rivelle , head of fixed-income investment at Los Angeles-based
TCW Group Inc., which has about $115 billion in assets under
management. “The fact that you can buy Bank of America paper at
200 over Treasuries, you could still call that compelling
valuation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  