-- BOE's Posen Backed by Institute of Directors in His Call for More Stimulus
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-05T10:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/bank-of-england-should-raise-bond-plan-by-50-billion-pounds-directors-say.html
The Institute of Directors joined
policy maker  Adam Posen ’s call for more stimulus to aid
Britain’s economic recovery before the Bank of England’s policy
meeting this week.  The “time has now come” for the Monetary Policy Committee
to increase asset purchases by 50 billion pounds ($79 billion)
to 250 billion pounds, the London-based lobby group said in an
e-mailed statement today. The median forecast of 36 economists
in a  Bloomberg News survey  is for no change on Oct. 7.  The group’s stance aligns it with the British Chambers of
Commerce, whose chief economist,  David Kern , said in a Sept. 30
interview that further stimulus was needed to boost  growth .
Posen said last week that officials should discuss more bond
purchases as he sought to “elicit reactions” from the public
and businesses on his views.  “Monetary policy needs to help ensure a sustainable
recovery is in place before the public-sector recession
begins,”  Graeme Leach , the institute’s chief economist, said in
the statement. “At the present time the growth threat is more
of a danger than inflation.”  The Institute of Directors is a lobby group representing
more than 40,000 U.K. business executives.  Kern, whose own organization lobbies for more than 100,000
businesses, said Posen was “right” to advocate the need for
more purchases as “all the evidence we have suggests growth is
slowing.” He predicts the bank may increase the purchase plan
as early as November.  Inflation Concern  Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  has voted to raise interest
rates since June, citing concerns that consumer-price
expectations may become dislodged. Inflation exceeded the
government’s 3 percent limit for a sixth month in August, stoked
by the weakness of the pound and higher commodity costs.  “Yes inflation is above target now,” Leach said. “But a
double-dip recession would raise the specter of deflation.”  While the economy expanded at the fastest pace in nine
years in the second quarter, recent data has shown the pace of
recovery may be faltering. An index of U.K. manufacturing, based
on a survey of factory purchasing managers, fell to a 10-month
low in September.  An index of services growth still unexpectedly rose in
September. The gauge increased to 52.8 from 51.3 in August,
Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply said today. Economists forecast a decline to 51,
according to the median of 28 predictions in a Bloomberg News
survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  