-- Ben Roethlisberger Returns to Steelers After Completing 4-Game Suspension
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/ben-roethlisberger-returns-to-steelers-after-completing-4-game-suspension.html
Ben Roethlisberger  rejoined the
Pittsburgh Steelers after completing his four-game suspension
and said he’s anxious to get back on the field after watching
the team’s 3-1 start from home.  Roethlisberger, 28, was initially banned for six games for
a violation of the National Football League’s personal conduct
policy after the quarterback was accused of sexually assaulting
two women. NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  later reduced the
sanction to four games.  Roethlisberger, who led the Steelers to two Super Bowl
titles, returned to the team’s training facility yesterday and
said he was greeted by hugs from all of his teammates.  “I was just so happy to see them and I think they were
happy to see me as well,” Roethlisberger said during a  news
conference . “There’s a lot of great chemistry on this team
right now. They’re off to a great start and I just want to
contribute to help this team win football games.”  The Steelers started 3-0 with  Dennis Dixon  and  Charlie Batch  playing quarterback before losing to Baltimore 17-14 two
days ago on an 18-yard touchdown by  T.J. Houshmandzadeh  with 32
seconds left. Roethlisberger will have to wait another week to
get back in a game, because Pittsburgh is off this week and next
plays Oct. 17 against the Cleveland Browns.  “I want to play this week,” Roethlisberger said. “That’s
the hard part; I want to be out there right away. But I guess
it’s a good thing to have two weeks of practice.”  Roethlisberger said he worked out 2 to 2 1/2 hours a day
during his suspension while practicing his throwing and footwork
with his quarterbacks coach.  “My arm is ready,” said Roethlisberger, who passed for a
career-high 4,328 yards last season with 26 touchdowns and 12
interceptions. “The biggest thing is refreshing my mind with
the offense and getting my timing down with the guys. I’m just
so excited to get back out there with them again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  