-- Bernanke Says Fiscal Limits Can Improve Federal Budget Path
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-10-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/bernanke-says-additional-purchases-of-securities-can-help-economy-recover.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said adopting rules that limit federal spending or debt
can help put the U.S. on a more sustainable fiscal path, urging
lawmakers to consider their enactment.  “Well-designed rules can help promote improved fiscal
performance,” Bernanke said yesterday in a speech in
Providence, Rhode Island. A rule “could provide an important
signal to the public that the Congress is serious about
achieving long-term fiscal sustainability, which itself would be
good for confidence,” he said.  Bernanke provided one of his most detailed prescriptions
yet for reducing the record federal budget deficit. He said in
congressional testimony in June that unless the U.S. makes a
“strong commitment to fiscal responsibility,” the country in
the long run will have neither economic growth nor fiscal
stability.  “It is crucially important that we put U.S. fiscal policy
on a sustainable path,” Bernanke said at the Rhode Island
Public Expenditure Council’s annual dinner, where he was invited
to speak by Senator  Jack Reed , a Democrat from Rhode Island and
member of the banking committee.  “The only real question” is whether adjustments to taxes
and spending will come from a “careful and deliberative
process” or from a “rapid and painful response to a looming or
actual fiscal crisis,” Bernanke said.  Bernanke cited Switzerland, Sweden, Finland, the
Netherlands, Canada and Chile as countries that improved their
budgetary performance by using fiscal rules. He didn’t elaborate
on what kinds of spending, deficit or debt limits would be best.  Presenting Plan  The White House Office of Management and Budget in July
projected the deficit for fiscal 2010, which ended Sept. 30, at
$1.47 trillion and the gap for fiscal 2011 at $1.42 trillion.
President  Barack Obama  formed a commission in February charged
with presenting a plan by Dec. 1 on how to reduce deficits over
the next decade.  The U.S. budget gap has “stabilized” and should narrow
relative to national income in the next few years, Bernanke
said.  “Economic conditions provide little scope for reducing
deficits significantly further over the next year or two;
indeed, premature fiscal tightening could put the recovery at
risk.” The situation is “quite different” in the longer term,
he said.  The Fed chief didn’t elaborate on the near-term outlook for
the economy and  monetary policy , and he didn’t take audience
questions.  Tax Cuts  In July, Bernanke told lawmakers that extending at least
some of the tax cuts set to expire this year would help
strengthen a U.S. economy still in need of stimulus and urged
offsetting the move with increased revenue or lower spending. He
didn’t discuss the tax cuts in yesterday’s speech.  “It would be difficult to identify a specific threshold at
which federal debt begins to pose more substantial costs and
risks to the nation’s economy,” Bernanke said. “What we do
know, however, is that the threat to our economy is real and
growing, which should be sufficient reason for fiscal policy
makers to put in place a credible plan for bringing deficits
down to sustainable levels over the medium term.”  Separately, in a forum with college students yesterday in
Providence, Bernanke said the central bank’s first round of
large-scale asset purchases that ended in March improved the
economy and that further buying is likely to help more.  More Purchases  “I do think that the additional purchases -- although we
don’t have precise numbers for how big the effects are -- I do
think they have the ability to ease financial conditions,”
Bernanke told the students.  The Fed chief and other officials have signaled over the
past two weeks that the central bank may purchase more
Treasuries at its next policy meeting Nov. 2-3 in an effort to
boost economic growth and reduce an unemployment rate persisting
at 9.5 percent or higher for the past year.  While he hasn’t given a detailed economic outlook since
Aug. 27, Bernanke said Sept. 24 that the Fed’s actions haven’t
“produced an economic recovery of sufficient vigor to
significantly reduce the high level of unemployment.” He said
Sept. 30 that “we need to do our part to help the economy
recover” and ensure job growth in the U.S.  Brian Sack , the New York Fed official in charge of carrying
out FOMC decisions, said yesterday that a further expansion of
the central bank’s balance sheet would help stimulate an
economic recovery that is forecast to be “relatively tepid.”
Smaller steps of purchases may be warranted in contrast to the
last round, Sack said in Newport Beach, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Providence at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  