-- BMW May Make Acquisitions to Expand Fleet-Management Business
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-10-05T13:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/bmw-may-use-takeovers-to-expand-fleet-management-in-consolidating-market.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the
world’s largest maker of luxury vehicles, may buy additional
car-management businesses to expand its fleet operations as the
industry consolidates and demand for transport services rise.  “We are in the process of focusing in the fleet market
very, very much and don’t even exclude moves of strategic nature
in that area - setting up new companies, maybe an acquisition, a
target one here or there,”  Georg Bauer , head of BMW’s financial
services unit, said today in an interview.  Seeking to fend off larger rivals Volkswagen AG and  Daimler
AG , BMW is pushing outside of its traditional business of making
and selling luxury vehicles. The Munich-based manufacturer is
developing a line of electric-powered city cars. The company’s
Alphabet fleet business manages a portfolio of more than 326,000
vehicles, including cars from other brands.  “The market is consolidating right now,” Bauer said at
the company’s office in Gurgaon near New Delhi, where BMW
announced plans to invest $50 million in its Indian financial
services business. “We stand ready and look at opportunities.
If strategic fit is there, if the price is right.”  Car-sharing may take on greater importance as electric
cars, like BMW’s megacity, enter the market, because battery
prices may make ownership less attractive. The trend has been
pursued by Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, with its
car2go project in Austin, Texas, and Ulm, Germany. The program
charges members 35 cents a minute to use Daimler’s Smart city
car and includes fuel, insurance, parking, maintenance, and
mileage.  Mega Cities  “What we are focusing on as BMW is really mobility
services, particularly in the mega cities,” said Bauer.
“People more and more will come to realize that I do not need a
car during the week, or maybe a very small one, but I would want
a sedan or a X5 or a station wagon on the weekend or for a
vacation.”  Banks may shed fleet businesses as part of the new Basel
III banking regulations, said Bauer, who previously worked for
Daimler before taking over management of BMW’s financial
services division in 2004. Bauer, who is due to retire at the
end of the year, will be succeeded by  Ebner von Eschenbach .  “We can be and would be very selective for expansion and
potential acquisitions,” Bauer said. “There is no pressure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhit ;
 ssharma@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  