-- BNP Leaps Atop Korea Foreign-Currency Bond Rank With Franc Debt
-- B y   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-10-06T08:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/bnp-paribas-leaps-atop-korea-foreign-currency-bond-ranks-with-franc-debt.html
BNP Paribas SA  leapt eight places to
become the top arranger of foreign-currency bond sales in South
Korea for the first time as it harnessed borrowers’ eagerness to
diversify from dollars into yen and Swiss francs.  BNP Paribas almost doubled its market share to 10.1 percent
so far this year from 5.5 percent in the same period of 2009
after managing $1.71 billion of transactions, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It leads Citigroup Inc. for the first
time in at least a decade and Deutsche Bank AG for the first
time since 2005 with sales including Hyundai Capital Services
Inc.’s 200 million Swiss franc ($205 million) offering of four-
year notes, the data show.  “We’ve been benefitting from the fact there’s been a move
away from the U.S. dollar, which has traditionally been a
strength of Wall Street,” said  Henri Foch , the Paris-based
lender’s head of Asia-Pacific fixed income. “Diversification
movement toward European currencies like the Swiss franc and
Asian currencies such as the yen has been helping us.”  Dollar bond sales by South Korean borrowers plunged to
$12.8 billion this year from $21.5 billion, shrinking the
greenback’s share of foreign-currency issuance to 76 percent
from 90 percent, Bloomberg data show. Yen offerings rose to the
equivalent of $1.3 billion from $324 million as benchmark five-
year Japanese government bonds yielded an average 99 basis
points less than U.S. Treasuries, while franc sales jumped 71
percent on an average 40 basis-point gap in sovereign yields.  Relative Yields  The extra yield investors demand to own Japanese corporate
bonds instead of government debt fell to 30 basis points from 38
basis points this year, according to Nomura Securities Co. index
data.  “Non-dollar funding markets are improving after lagging
behind, with credit spreads tightening and government bond
yields falling,” said  Yum Sang Hoon , a fixed-income analyst at
SK Securities Co. in Seoul. “Borrowers are getting an
opportunity to fund at a lower cost than they would by selling
dollar bonds.”  Korea Development Bank raised 200 million Swiss francs from
1.75 percent notes maturing in Oct. 2014 in an August
transaction arranged by BNP Paribas’ Swiss unit and Credit
Suisse Group AG. The notes’ spread has since narrowed to 130
basis points from 140, according to Zuercher Kantonalbank prices.  Diversification  State-owned Korea Development raised $900 million from 3.25
percent, 5.5-year notes last month priced at a 185 basis-point
spread, Bloomberg data show.  BNP Paribas has helped Korean borrowers arrange 550 million
Swiss francs of bonds this year, according to Bloomberg data. It
also brought bonds to market in the U.S. currency, Japanese yen,
Australian dollars and Brazilian reais.  Korea Gas Corp. on Sept. 23 paid a 2.25 percent coupon when
it sold 100 million Swiss franc-denominated bonds due to mature
in October 2015, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Korea
Electric Power Corp., which like Korea Gas has the sixth-highest
investment grade rating of A by Standard & Poor’s, on Sept. 27
paid a 3 percent coupon when it sold $700 million of similar-
maturity notes, the data shows.  “Companies are trying to diversify the investor pool and
markets they borrow from in the wake of the financial crisis to
avoid another squeeze,” said  Choi Seok Won , head of fixed-
income research at Samsung Securities Co. Ltd. in Seoul
“Borrowers in need of dollars can lower their total funding
costs in some non-dollar markets even after swapping the
proceeds into dollars.”  Ex-Im Bank  The implied volatility on one-month dollar-won options
surged to 33.25 on May 25, the highest since April 3, 2009,
before declining to 12.96 yesterday, according to Bloomberg data.  Export-Import Bank of Korea , the nation’s largest issuer of
non-dollar foreign currency bonds this year, sold notes
denominated in currencies including the ringgit, baht and
Singapore dollar as well as the greenback.  “We’re seeking to tap diversified markets and investors
while many South Korean issuers are still actively selling
dollar bonds,” said  Yoon Hee-Sung , a director of Kexim’s
international finance department.  “Non-dollar markets will continue to grow on
diversification and borrowing costs,” said  Frank Kwong , BNP
Paribas’ head of Asia syndicate in Hong Kong. “Asian markets
like Chinese yuan, Malaysian ringgit and Thai baht, as well as
Latin American markets including the Brazilian real and
Colombian peso, are also likely to grow.”  BNP Paribas boosted its Asia debt capital markets team to
18 from 10 this year, with two of the hires in Seoul, and may
add another five to 10 people next year, according to Hong Kong-
based Foch.  “BNP Paribas added staff for the South Korean business
late last year and early this year, which has paid off,”  Louis Shin , a credit analyst at Woori Investment & Securities Co.,
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  