-- BofA Ends Home Loans Through Brokers to Focus on Direct Lending
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-05T19:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/bofa-ends-home-loans-through-brokers-to-focus-on-direct-lending.html
Bank of America Corp. , the third-
biggest U.S. mortgage lender through independent brokers, plans
to stop offering home loans through that channel, focusing on
direct lending and acquiring debts from other originators.  The shift will “further enhance our capabilities in
direct-to-consumer channels,” said  Barbara Desoer , president of
Bank of America Home Loans, in a statement today. The bank said
it will phase out the business “following an orderly transition
of loans currently in process.”  Lenders including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  have stopped
offering mortgages through brokers after lax practices among
people signing up borrowers helped create bad loans and fueled
losses. Bank of America made $8.2 billion of loans through
mortgage brokers during this year’s first half, giving it an
11.8 percent market share, according to  Inside Mortgage Finance .
That ranks it behind Wells Fargo & Co. and Provident Funding.  About 1,000 Bank of America employees work in the broker
division and the “vast majority” will be able to move to jobs
in other units, said  Rick Simon , a spokesman for the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based lender. The firm ranked second in total
home lending and first in loans acquired correspondent
companies, according to Inside Mortgage Finance.  Brokers accounted for 10 percent of U.S. home lending
during the first half of this year, down from a peak of 31
percent in 2005, according to the publication.  “My biggest mistake, probably of my whole career, was not
closing down our mortgage-broker business sooner,” JPMorgan
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 54, said in a March 2009
speech. The New York-based bank quit funding home loans through
brokers in January 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net 
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec D.B. McCabe in New York at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net ; 