-- BOJ Steps Up Asset Purchases, Lowers Benchmark Interest Rate
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-10-05T09:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/boj-steps-up-asset-purchases-cuts-key-rate-to-0-0-1-to-revive-economy.html
The Bank of Japan pledged to keep its
benchmark interest rate at “virtually zero” until deflation
has ended after unexpectedly reducing borrowing costs for the
first time since 2008 and expanding its balance sheet.  The bank cut the overnight call rate target to a range of 0
percent to 0.1 percent, the lowest level since 2006, from 0.1
percent, it said in a  statement  in Tokyo. Policy makers will set
up a 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) fund to buy government bonds
and other assets, inflating the balance sheet at a time when U.S.
and U.K. central bankers are contemplating similar moves.  Japan’s stocks climbed after the announcement, which
countered economists’ forecasts for the central bank to instead
enlarge a bank-loan program. Today’s move, labeled
“comprehensive monetary easing” by Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa 
and his colleagues, still falls short of a wider expansion of
debt purchases sought by some politicians.  “With today’s decision, the Bank of Japan paved the path
for the next step,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS
Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo. “What will be critical will be
how foreign-exchange rates move as a result,” along with the
impact of any additional easing by the Federal Reserve, she said.  Policy makers kept their credit program for banks at 30
trillion yen, against the prediction of 14 of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Bond Purchases  The bank also kept the target for monthly purchases of
government bonds at 1.8 trillion yen. The statement said the
debt bought through the new facility won’t be considered as
applying to the BOJ’s rule for keeping its holdings at less than
the value of banknotes outstanding.  Shirakawa told a post-meeting news conference today that
the bank will consider expanding the fund “if necessary,” and
wouldn’t rule out buying more types of assets. The governor said
the decision to cut the rate was to meant to be an “explicit”
message that the bank will allow the target to decline below 0.1
percent because of the added liquidity injections.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average  ended 1.5% higher. The yen
recouped its losses about four hours after falling on the BOJ’s
decision. It traded at 83.35 yen to the dollar at 5:38 p.m. in
Tokyo compared with 83.57 before the announcement.  Step Up Efforts  Business leaders have urged authorities to step up efforts
to shield exports from the yen’s surge last month to a 15-year
high. Authorities intervened last month for the first time since
2004, selling 2.12 trillion yen to stem the exchange rate’s
gains. The yen’s advance prompted  Nintendo Co. , the world’s
biggest maker of video-game machines, to cut its annual net
profit forecast by 55 percent to 90 billion yen last week.  “Today’s moves may help push down short-term rates, which
could help halt the yen’s gains,” said  Susumu Kato , chief
economist for Japan in Tokyo at Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA.  The BOJ said it will keep the “virtually interest rate
policy” until it decides that “price stability is in sight,”
a stance it termed its “policy time horizon.” The BOJ board
considers prices stable when they are in a positive range of up
to 2 percent, with a median of 1 percent.  The bank said its new 5 trillion yen fund will buy about
3.5 trillion yen in government debt and the remainder will be
used to purchase assets such as commercial paper, exchange
traded funds and real estate investment trusts.  Weighing Need  Central banks around the world are weighing the need for
more stimulus as growth cools. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
this week the Fed’s large-scale asset purchases improved the
economy and further buying is likely to help more. The European
Central Bank stepped up its government-bond purchases last week.  While the Bank of England is forecast to keep its stimulus
program at the current level this week, policy maker  Adam Posen 
has advocated an expansion.  The measures widen the Bank of Japan’s arsenal of tools
beyond the 30 trillion yen credit program, which extends funds
to banks at 0.1 percent. That facility had failed to halt a
contraction in credit, and only about 20.8 trillion of the
resource has been used so far, according to money-market
brokerage Tokyo Tanshi Co.  Japan introduced the zero rate policy for the first time in
1999 and again in 2001, when it also adopted so-called
quantitative easing, or targeted injections of funds into the
economy.  ‘Fighting Mode’  “The BOJ completely changed its stance,” said  Seiji Shiraishi , chief economist at HSBC Securities in Tokyo, one of
two analysts in the Bloomberg survey who predicted a rate cut at
today’s meeting. “Today’s move showed that the bank is
absolutely committed to address downside risks. They are in a
full fighting mode.”  Recent reports provide evidence the yen’s strength is
hindering economic growth.  Industrial production  unexpectedly declined for a third
month and gains in retail sales were smaller than economists
forecast, government figured released last week showed. The
overall economy grew at less than half the pace in the April-
June period compared with the previous quarter.  Further signs of weakening may emerge in coming weeks.  Japan’s economy will probably contract in the fourth
quarter because the government’s incentives to subsidize energy-
efficient cars expired in September and increased consumer
spending due to an unusually hot summer will wane, said  Masaaki Kanno , a former BOJ official and now chief Japan economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo.  Ending Subsidies  Domestic new car sales in September fell for the first time
in 14 months, the Japan Automobile Dealers Association said on
Oct. 1. The government ended the subsidy program in the middle
of the month because its budget ran out.  Governor Shirakawa said today it has become more likely
that the economy’s return to sustainable growth “will be
delayed” a stronger yen and a slowdown in the global economy
have been hurting corporate sentiment and weakening the recovery,
he said.  Politicians had been calling for bigger steps from the
central bank.  “Without the help of policy easing by the BOJ, the yen
would come back to regain strength no matter how much Japan
intervenes in the currency market,” said  Keiichiro Asao , policy
research chief of the opposition Your Party, said in an
interview on Oct. 1.  Your Party is preparing a bill to revise the Bank of Japan
Law to give the government a bigger role in central bank policy
making, including possibly setting an inflation target together
with the BOJ. It aims to submit the bill to the current
parliament session.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters today he
welcomed the BOJ’s decision. “I hope that this will help
stabilize the foreign-exchange market,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  