-- Bank of Japan's Surprise May Fail to Strengthen Economic Growth
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-06T07:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/boj-surprise-comes-with-footnote-as-easing-may-fail-to-spur-japan-growth.html
Bank of Japan Governor  Masasaki Shirakawa ’s “comprehensive monetary easing” may need to become
more comprehensive.  The central bank yesterday cut its benchmark overnight
interest rate for the first time since 2008 and pledged to hold
it at “virtually zero” until officials foresee a sustained end
to deflation. Shirakawa and his board also adopted a 5 trillion
yen ($60 billion) program aimed at lowering long-term borrowing
costs and the premiums on corporate debt.  The moves are likely to have little impact on growth as
Japan struggles to prevent an appreciating currency from eroding
its exports; the yen traded near a 15-year high after the
announcement in Tokyo. With the BOJ itself saying the expansion
will probably be slower than previously forecast, Japan may
widen its quantitative easing in coming months.  “It was a surprise in terms of the variety of policy
elements they laid out, but for each one we have to add a
footnote,” said  Chiwoong Lee , senior economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in Tokyo. “As economic conditions worsen they have
to do more.” He added that another move may come in December.  While officials cut the rate target, they kept the return
on banks’ excess reserves held at the BOJ at 0.1 percent,
lessening any impact, according to Lee. The expansion of bond
buying pledged yesterday, at 3.5 trillion yen, is less than the
last increase, in 2009. And the pledge to hold off on raising
borrowing costs is less specific than one made in 2001, he said.  Yen Strength  Japan’s currency dropped as much as 0.8 percent against the
dollar after the statement’s release. It traded at 83.13 at 2:39
p.m. in Tokyo after reaching 82.96 yesterday, the strongest
since Japan intervened in foreign-exchange markets. The yen has
soared in part because of signs that the Federal Reserve itself
will enlarge its so-called quantitative easing.  The Fed’s benchmark rate is also near zero, leaving
quantitative easing -- increasing the size of its balance sheet
-- its main tool. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said two days ago in
Providence, Rhode Island, that additional asset purchases “have
the ability to ease financial conditions.”  BOJ policy makers indicated they share Bernanke’s view,
saying in their statement that their strategy will “encourage
the decline in longer-term interest rates and various risk
premiums.” Officials put the title “Comprehensive Monetary
Easing” on the top of the release.  The bank said in a monthly report that the pace of the
economic recovery is “slowing down” as exports and industrial
production lose steam.  The ruling Democratic Party of Japan proposed an economic
stimulus in excess of 4.8 trillion yen today to help local
governments and small businesses create jobs.  Corporate Debt  The cost of protecting Japanese corporate bonds from
default was little changed after the announcement, with the
Markit iTraxx Japan index slipping 1 basis point to 103 basis
points as of 2:29 p.m. yesterday in Tokyo, according to Morgan
Stanley prices.  Yasunobu Katsuki , chief credit analyst at Mizuho
Securities Co. in Tokyo, predicted the impact of the BOJ’s
facility “will be limited.”  Shirakawa said at a press conference yesterday that the
asset program may be widened in size or scope “if necessary.”
The fund, to be set up over a year, will purchase 3.5 trillion
yen of government bonds, skirting the central bank’s self-
imposed ceiling on holdings of those securities because of the
facility’s “temporary” status.  Exchange Traded Funds  The bank intends to buy about 1 trillion yen of commercial
paper, asset-backed commercial paper and corporate debt. The
statement also said officials will examine Japan real-estate
investment trusts and exchange-traded funds for the fund.  Government officials welcomed yesterday’s step, with
Finance Minister  Naoto Kan  saying there’s a united goal of
defeating deflation. He reiterated that officials remain
prepared to sell yen, after Japan intervened in the currency
market for the first time in six years on Sept. 15.  “This is a move in the right direction,” said lawmaker
 Yoichi Kaneko , part of a group in the ruling Democratic Party of
Japan that has called on the central bank to do more. He said
the BOJ ought to take steps that further expand its  balance
sheet  to spur demand. “I think the stance they’ve shown is
correct, but this isn’t a big change in policy.”  Shirakawa and his colleagues had previously created a loan
program for commercial banks, first set up in December 2009 and
boosted twice to a current total of 30 trillion yen, which
failed to stem a contraction in bank loans. Fourteen of 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had anticipated a further
increase yesterday.  Fiscal Stimulus  BOJ officials had also in August started a 3 trillion yen
fund aimed at supporting innovative companies. While fiscal
stimulus has been limited because of the need to avoid worsening
the world’s biggest public debt load, Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s
government plans a 4.8 trillion yen package of measures to
bolster growth.  “It is difficult to generate growth given Japan’s
deflationary and demographic realities,”  Paul McCulley , a
managing director at Pacific Investment Management Co., which
runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said on the company’s
website. “Japan has limited political willingness to boldly
pursue reflationary policies.”  Consumer prices have fallen most years since 1998, and the
nation’s population started falling in 2006. Meantime, the yen’s
11 percent appreciation versus the dollar threatens to stunt the
nation’s recovery from its deepest postwar recession.  Production Decline  Industrial production  unexpectedly declined for a third
month and gains in retail sales were smaller than economists
forecast, government figured released last week showed. The
overall economy grew at less than half the pace in the April-
June period compared with the previous quarter.  “The economic growth rate is likely to be somewhat lower
than expected” in July, the BOJ said yesterday. Policy makers
are due to review their forecasts later this month.  Nintendo Co. , the world’s biggest maker of video-game
machines, cut its annual net profit forecast by 55 percent to 90
billion yen last week in part because of the yen’s climb.  “The BOJ’s new zero-rate policy could surely continue for
years,”  Seiji Shiraishi , an economist at HSBC Holdings Inc. and
one of two analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News who predicted a
rate cut yesterday, wrote in a note to clients. “But today’s
measures will have limited positive impacts on the economy as
Japan’s stagnancies are mainly coming from the structural
weakness of final demand in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  