-- Brazilian Stocks Gain as Mantega Limits Tax; Real Moves Higher
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-10-05T20:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/bovespa-stock-index-futures-gain-after-mantega-leaves-stocks-tax-unchanged.html
Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index gained
for a seventh day on easing concern the government will tighten
capital controls on stocks after doubling taxes for foreign
purchases of fixed-income investments. The real rose to a two-
year high.  Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron ore miner, extended its
longest winning streak since 1994 as metals prices jumped.
BM&FBovespa SA, the owner of Brazil’s securities exchange, rose
after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  raised the taxes it charges
foreigners to buy bonds to 4 percent yesterday, leaving taxes on
equity unchanged.  “The fact that they didn’t include stocks this time is a
relief,” said  Bill Rudman , who helps manage about $2 billion at
Blackfriars Asset Management in London. “This also could mean
they won’t include stocks in future moves. Brazil’s overvalued
currency is the biggest negative for us, so if they succeed in
weakening the currency, it could make the country more
attractive.”  The Bovespa gained 1.3 percent to 71,283.11 at 4 p.m. New
York time, the biggest gain in two weeks. Five stocks rose on
the index for each that fell. The BM&FBovespa Small Cap index
rose 1.7 percent to 1,384.23. The tax failed to prevent an
appreciation of the currency with the real rising 1.7 percent to
1.6700 per dollar.  Mantega said Brazilian interest rates, at 10.75 percent for
overnight loans between banks, are too high and luring
speculative capital as the U.S. lets its currency weaken and
takes the Chinese yuan with it. The steeper tax discourages such
capital inflows into Brazil, he said. Brazil first implemented a
2 percent tax on foreign investments, including stocks, in
October 2009.  Bond Prediction  BM&FBovespa  led Brazilian financial stocks higher,
following a bank rally in Europe, after Moody’s Investor Service
said it’s impressed with Greece’s efforts to reform its
finances, easing concern debt problems in the region will rattle
financial markets. BM&FBovespa gained 3.6 percent, the most
since Aug. 27, to 14.60 reais.  The higher tax on fixed-income investments in Brazil won’t
have any impact on the exchange’s volumes, BM&FBovespa Chief
Executive Officer Edemir Pinto told reporters in Sao Paulo
today.  Vale rose for a 12th straight session, gaining 1.2 percent
to 47.34 reais. Copper, a bellwether for global growth, rose to
the highest price in 26 months as the dollar dropped, boosting
demand for commodities as alternative assets.  Yields Jump  Investor optimism about stocks may contrast with the bond
market. Brazil’s attempt to end the currency’s 28 percent ascent
since October 2008 is prompting JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Barclays Capital to predict the biggest tumble in benchmark
real- denominated bonds in 21 months.  Benchmark notes due in 2017 will sink, sending yields up as
much as 40 basis points, the most since January 2009, to 12.19
percent, said  Felipe Pianetti , an emerging-markets strategist at
JPMorgan in New York. Yields on bonds due in 2021 may jump 25
basis points to 12.11 percent, said  Roberto Melzi , a strategist
at Barclays in New York.  The  Bovespa  index trades for 10.4 times analysts’ 2011
earnings estimates, compared with 10.9 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index and 14 times for Mexico’s IPC index,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bovespa
trades at 15.6 times the reported profits of its companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  