-- Pound Near Six-Month Low Versus Euro on Bank of England Easing Speculation
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-10-14T15:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/british-pound-rises-against-dollar-as-services-index-unexpectedly-advances.html
The pound fell, trading near a six-
month low against the euro, as traders speculated the Bank of
England will resume buying assets as the economic recovery shows
signs of stalling.  Sterling gained with other major currencies against the
dollar on bets the Federal Reserve will ease policy further by
purchasing debt. The world economy needs more monetary stimulus,
and governments should be cautious in cutting deficits, Bank of
England policy maker  Adam Posen  said in Germany’s  Handelsblatt 
newspaper. The U.K.’s  consumer confidence  fell in September,
while unemployment claims climbed, reports showed yesterday.  “The pound has been an underperformer against the euro
because of the lingering suspicion that sterling might have its
own quantitative-easing story,” said  Daragh Maher , deputy head
of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole SA in
London. “Most of what we’ve heard from the BOE has been
dovish.”  Sterling traded at 87.97 pence per euro at 4:25 p.m. in
London, compared with 87.82 pence yesterday, when it depreciated
to 88.40 pence, the weakest level since April 19. The pound rose
0.6 percent to $1.5991, from $1.5897 yesterday. The dollar
dropped against 12 of its 16 most-traded counterparts, tumbling
to a 15-year low versus the yen.  Evidence of a slowing U.K. recovery stoked bets that the
central bank will keep the target lending rate at a record low
0.5 percent and add to its bond purchases to safeguard the
recovery as the government cuts spending.  Sterling’s Drop  Sterling has lost 5.4 percent in 2010 against its
developed-country peers, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes.  Policy makers are trying to balance the risk of the economy
slipping into a recession with their goal of limiting annual
inflation. The Office for National Statistics said this week
that inflation exceeded the government’s 3 percent limit for a
seventh month in September.  Investors’ inflation expectations are at the highest level
in more than three weeks. The 10-year break-even rate, which
measures the yield difference between regular and index-linked
bonds, was 2.79 percentage points after climbing to 2.82
percentage points, the most since Sept. 21. The rate has
increased from 2.48 percentage points on Aug. 31, the least this
year. It was as high as 3.25 percentage points on April 21.  Sentance on Inflation  Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  reiterated his
call for higher interest rates yesterday at a speech in London,
arguing that failure to increase them would put the bank’s
credibility at risk.  It’s important that “confidence is not eroded by a
perception that the Monetary Policy Committee has taken its eye
off the ball and is becoming more tolerant of higher
inflation,” Sentance said. “Unfortunately, the risk of such a
loss of confidence and credibility appears to be increasing.”  U.K. government bonds were little changed, with the yield
on the 10-year gilt at 2.88 percent and the 2-year note yield at
0.64 percent.  Gilts have returned 10 percent since the end of 2009,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
German government bonds have earned 9.2 percent, while U.S.
Treasuries have gained 9.1 percent.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year U.K. gilts
instead of equivalent-maturity German bunds narrowed to 58 basis
points, the least since January, based on closing-market data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  