-- Buffett Compares Wall Street to Church With Raffle
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-10-05T20:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/buffett-compares-wall-street-casino-culture-to-church-raffles.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , said Wall Street is like a
church that benefits society, then falters by operating a
gambling venture on the side.  Wall Street “does a lot of good things and then it has
this casino,” Buffett, 80, said today at Fortune magazine’s
Most Powerful Women conference in Washington. “It’s like a
church that’s running raffles on the weekend.”  Buffett relies on investment banks to  help finance 
acquisitions such as his $27 billion purchase of railroad
Burlington Northern Santa Fe and to offer derivative contracts
that allow him to speculate on stock markets. Omaha, Nebraska-
based Berkshire invested $5 billion in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
in 2008 at the depths of the credit crisis. Buffett has also
faulted Wall Street for excessive bets on U.S. housing.  “People have a propensity to gamble, and it gets made
easier and easier for them,” Buffett said. “One of the
problems we still have is we have unbalanced incentives for
managers of huge financial institutions.”  Buffett has called for greater accountability from bank
executives whose risk-taking produces losses for shareholders
and imperils the economy. The use of derivatives has allowed
banks to add risk and “makes a mockery” of federal rules
designed to limit losses, Buffett said. “You should go broke,”
he said of chief executive officers whose firms require
government bailouts to protect society.  ‘Your Wife Should Go Broke’  “And I think your wife should go broke, too,” he said.  Berkshire, where Buffett serves as CEO, weathered the
financial crisis without taking a capital injection from the
U.S. government. Some of Berkshire’s biggest investment holdings
took bailouts, including Goldman Sachs, the most profitable Wall
Street firm, which got $10 billion in taxpayer funds.  Wells
Fargo & Co. , which counts Berkshire as its biggest investor, got
$25 billion.  Buffett reiterated praise for financial-company bailouts,
and said government’s treatment of shareholders won’t create a
so-called moral hazard in the equities market. Stockholders of
companies including insurer  American International Group Inc. 
and Citigroup Inc. lost at least 90 percent of their
investments, Buffett said.  “The common shareholders did not get bailed out of those
institutions, they lost hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of
billions,” Buffett said. “There is no moral hazard in terms of
big financial company stockholders.”  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs and San Francisco-based Wells Fargo repaid
their U.S. rescues.  Buffett built an  equity portfolio  of about $55 billion by
buying and holding stocks of companies that he believes have
durable competitive advantages. Berkshire is the largest
investor in Coca-Cola Co. and  American Express Co.   His investment in Goldman Sachs came with warrants that
enable him to buy $5 billion of the company’s stock at $115 a
share, compared with yesterday’s closing price of $146.57.
Exercising the option at that price would generate a profit of
more than $1.3 billion.  Buffett’s pronouncements on markets and on the economy are
watched by policy makers and investors. Buffett, the world’s
third-richest person, oversees more than 200,000  employees  at
Berkshire and the company’s more than 70 subsidiaries. At the
conference today, he said his businesses are “coming back”
after the recession. When asked for his outlook on equity and
fixed-income markets, Buffett said investors buying bonds after
yields fell this year “are making a mistake.”  ‘Stocks are Cheaper’  “It’s quite clear that stocks are cheaper than bonds,”
Buffett said. “I can’t imagine anyone having bonds in their
portfolio when they can own equities.”  Buffett said wealthy individuals should pay higher taxes.
The billionaire, who said he probably pays a lower tax rate
“than the cleaning lady,” criticized cuts made under former
President  George W. Bush . President  Barack Obama , whom Buffett
advised during his election campaign, is seeking lawmaker
support to phase out breaks for families making more than
$250,000.  “I have no tax shelters, I have no tax accountant, my tax
shelter really was the Bush administration,” Buffett said.
“They took care of me. They thought here’s this endangered
species, kind of like the bald eagle out in Omaha, and if we
don’t take care of this guy they’ll all quit working and we
won’t have any arbitrageurs or hedge fund operators. So we’ve
gotta give this guy a special kind of break.”  Lawmakers are considering measures to raise revenue under
the shadow of a U.S. deficit previously forecast by the White
House budget office to be a record $1.47 trillion for 2010 and
$1.42 trillion for fiscal 2011, which started Oct. 1.  “If you’re not going to get it from guys like me, why
should we get it from the people who served us lunch today,”
Buffett said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 