-- Obama Veers Into `Off-Script' Tax-Cuts Debate With His Economic Advisers
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/business-critics-take-obama-off-script-at-white-house-advisers-meeting.html
Corporate grievances against
President  Barack Obama  intruded into a public meeting of the
president and his outside economic advisory board as three
members challenged him on regulation and tax policy.  While the topic of yesterday’s White House meeting was
supposed to be education,  Mark Gallogly , managing partner of the
buyout firm Centerbridge Partners LP, pressed Obama on
regulatory burdens imposed by his administration.  The door was opened for Gallogly by  William Donaldson , head
of Donaldson Enterprises Inc. and a former chairman of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, and Harvard University
economics professor  Martin Feldstein , who both served in
Republican administrations, when they criticized Obama’s plan to
let tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans expire amid a weak
recovery.  “This was a fun conversation,” Obama said as he closed
out the meeting, drawing laughter from some members of the
President’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board. “It went a little
off-script, which is good.”  The exchanges reflect tension between the White House and
some business leaders that is playing out at a time that the
Obama administration’s economic competency is under fire from
Republican critics during a congressional election year, and as
economic growth slows and the  unemployment rate  hovers near a
26-year high.  Business Attitude  “There’s this concern about the business community’s
attitude about the administration,” said Feldstein, 70, who was
a chief economic adviser to President  Ronald Reagan . “And it’s
not just the business community, it’s high-income individuals,
entrepreneurs and others.”  Feldstein was echoing remarks by corporate executives.
 Verizon Communications Inc.  Chief Executive Officer  Ivan Seidenberg , chairman of the Business Roundtable, an association
of senior corporate executives, used a speech in Washington in
June to say Obama is creating “an increasingly hostile
environment for investment and job creation.”  A September poll of investors and analysts who are
Bloomberg subscribers found more than three-quarters of
respondents in the U.S. view Obama as anti-business.  Obama is confronting such criticism even as he seeks to
limit voter concern that the government is too generous to Wall
Street and corporate America. The $700 billion financial
industry bailout and the rescues of General Motors Co. and
Chrysler Group LLC have fueled public anger.  Executives in Cabinet  Unlike his immediate predecessors, Obama doesn’t have a
top-level corporate executive in his Cabinet. Former President
 George W. Bush ’s administration included Vice President  Dick Cheney , a former  Halliburton Co.  chief executive, and Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson , former chairman and CEO of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  A former Goldman co-chairman,  Robert Rubin , was
President  Bill Clinton ’s Treasury secretary.  Obama, 49, has sought to counter anti-business perceptions
with presidential lunches and dinners for prominent business
figures and with public meetings to confer with executives.  “Look, I think we’re continually looking for opportunities
to work with business,” White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday. “We want to make sure that what’s good
for Wall Street is good for Main Street.”  Still, Obama couldn’t escape the criticism at a meeting of
his own advisory board, held before television cameras in the
 State Dining Room .  Feldstein told Obama that extending for two years all the
 tax cuts  passed during Bush’s administration would stimulate
demand and boost the recovery.  ‘Slower Pace’  “We’ve been expanding at a slower and slower pace, quarter
after quarter,” Feldstein said. “This doesn’t seem to me a
time when you want to pull back demand by letting tax rates
jump.”  Donaldson, 79, who was SEC chairman under Bush, said the
tax debate is adding to business “uncertainty.”  “What I would I suggest to you is that your
administration, and particularly you, set forward with a
statement that you’re not going to this time increase taxes for
anybody and relieve that uncertainty,” Donaldson told the
president.  Obama said he’s “unequivocal” about retaining tax cuts
for 98 percent of American taxpayers while letting rates rise
for individuals making more than $200,000 and married couples
with incomes above $250,000.  “I don’t know of any economist, including I think Martin,
who would argue that we are more likely to get a bump in
aggregate demand from $700 billion of borrowed money going to
people like those of us around this table who, I suspect, if we
want a flat screen TV can afford one right now and are going out
and buying one,” he said.  In Defense  Obama turned for “some economic help” to  Laura D’Andrea Tyson , an economic adviser to Clinton, who defended Obama’s
policies. In conversations with corporate executives about ways
to aid the recovery, “they’re not talking about their
particular income tax bracket,” she said.  Revenue from the higher rates on top earners could be used
for projects that are “more demand-generating,” such as an
infrastructure bank or a temporary cut in payroll taxes, Tyson
said.  Gallogly followed by expressing concern about Obama’s
regulatory policies. “When you re-regulate whole sectors of the
economy,” he said that “you do create uncertainty.”  Afterward, the president told a small group of reporters
that it was a “robust discussion.”  When asked whether he was surprised that the discussion
turned to income taxes he said, “sometimes everybody feels like
they’ve got to follow up on the two minutes they’ve been
allocated.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Andersen  Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  