-- Cameron Defends Child Benefit Cuts as Coalition Lawmakers Urge Adjustments
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-05T14:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/cameron-defends-child-benefit-cuts-as-coalition-lawmakers-urge-adjustments.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said his government’s plan to cut child-benefit payments to
higher-rate taxpayers was “fair” as he fended off criticism
from non-working mothers and some of his own lawmakers.  The step, announced by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  at the  Conservative Party  conference in Birmingham
yesterday, will penalize some women who choose to stay at home
to look after their children rather than go to work. The Daily
Mail newspaper, which normally supports the Conservatives,
headlined its front-page story “ Fury of stay-at-home mums .”  “It’s important that, as we deal with this deficit, we ask
people with the broadest backs to make a greater contribution,”
Cameron said in an interview on BBC1 television today. “I want
to support families and help families, but we have to look at
this issue of how we pay down our deficit.”  The cutback in child benefit will hit 1.2 million families
with at least one parent earning more than about 44,000 pounds
($70,000) from 2013. That means a family in which both parents
earned 43,000 pounds would retain the benefit, putting some
households with one earner at a disadvantage.  The payment is worth 1,055 pounds a year for the first
child and 696 pounds a year for each subsequent child. It costs
12 billion pounds a year and is paid to 7.8 million families,
according to Treasury figures.  The announcement forms part of spending reductions to help
narrow Britain’s record  budget deficit .  Web Critics  Internet discussion forums for mothers carried postings
attacking the change today. Both Cameron and Osborne had
previously pledged to keep payments for children as a universal
benefit for all mothers regardless of income.  One poster on  Mumsnet  said the government’s move punished
those who stay at home to look after children, pointing out that
she would lose the benefit as her husband earned just over the
threshold, while friends with a combined income nearly twice as
high would continue to get payments. Another said she would tell
her husband to take a pay cut as he earns just over the
threshold.  Cameron floated the possibility of compensating higher-rate
earners in families where the mother stays at home through tax
reliefs for married couples that allow wives to pass their tax
allowances to their husbands. He ruled out means-testing of
family incomes, saying it would be too bureaucratic.  ‘Tax Allowance’  “What we would have had to do is set up an incredibly
complicated system of bureaucracy all the way up the income
scale, and I don’t think people would have welcomed that,”
Cameron said. “In the coalition agreement we do talk about
having some sort of transferable tax allowance to help couples
in that way, so obviously there are things we’ll try and do.”  The BBC later  reported  on its website that a tax break for
married couples will be introduced by 2015, citing unnamed
government officials.  Someone with two children earning just over the threshold
would need to increase his or her income by around 3,000 pounds
before he or she made up for the loss of his or her child
benefit, according to Bloomberg calculations.  “This reform seriously distorts incentives for some
families with children,” the London-based  Institute for Fiscal
Studies  said in a statement yesterday that confirmed that
estimate. “In particular, adults with children whose income
places them below the higher-rate income tax threshold might
find themselves considerably worse off from a small rise in
income.”  ‘Plenty of Time’  Children’s Minister  Tim Loughton  told Channel 4 television
last night that some of the anomalies would have to be ironed
out. “If there are ways we can look at compensating measures
for those genuinely in need, that will be looked at in future
budgets,” he said. “If the thresholds need to be adjusted
there’s plenty of time to look at that.”  Another Conservative lawmaker,  Jo Johnson , said in
Birmingham that he supported the policy in principle, though
“it needs to be tweaked.”  Cameron also issued a warning to the financial industry
over pay today, saying it would be unacceptable for banks to go
on awarding employees large bonuses while they continue to
restrict loans.  “If these banks don’t get on and lend money to small
businesses, that’s an intolerable situation,” Cameron told BBC
Radio 4. “We cannot stand by.”  He gave no detail of how he might try to change banks’
behavior, saying only that the coalition government will “look
very carefully” at the issue of bonuses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in Birmingham, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Kitty Donaldson  in Birmingham, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  