-- Cameron Says `Doers and Grafters' Will Rebuild U.K.'s Economy
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-10-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/cameron-says-doers-and-grafters-will-rebuild-u-k-s-economy-amid-cuts.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  will
today praise small businessmen and entrepreneurs as the people
who’ll rebuild Britain’s economy, comparing his own ministerial
team with them as he defends his program of spending cuts.  Cameron’s keynote speech to his  Conservative Party ’s annual
conference in Birmingham, central England, will contain repeated
references to “hard work,” both by his Cabinet finding ways to
reduce expenditure to cut Britain’s  record budget deficit  and by
ordinary people trying to support their families, according to
extracts released by his office.  “It will be the doers and grafters, the inventors and
entrepreneurs who get this economy going,” Cameron will say.
“When you think of a wealth-creator, don’t think of the tycoon
in a glass tower. Think of the man who gets up and leaves the
house before dawn to go out and clean windows.”  With the conference dominated by controversy over his plan
to ax child-benefit payments to higher-earning parents, Cameron
will say that while reducing the budgets of government
departments by 25 percent over four years is “difficult,” it
is no more than many businesses have done.  The Conservative leadership has faced criticism from inside
and outside the party over the child-benefit proposal, announced
two days ago by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne .
Cameron apologized yesterday that the step had not been
mentioned before May’s election. During the election campaign,
Cameron said he was in favor of child benefits remaining
“universal,” paid to all mothers regardless of income.  Mail ‘Fury’  The cut will save 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) a year by
stopping the payment of the benefit to parents earning more than
44,000 pounds. It will mean an end to payments to some stay-at-
home-mothers, prompting headlines speaking of their “fury” in
the normally Conservative-supporting  Daily Mail  and other
newspapers yesterday.  Those concerns are a foretaste of arguments within the
media and among lawmakers that will come as Osborne tries to
reach his target of cutting 113 billion pounds from the annual
budget by 2015.  “Most policies that involve cuts result in collateral
damage to voters, no matter how hard the government may try to
target them,”  Tim Bale , professor of politics at Sussex
University in Brighton, said in a telephone interview. “They
will batten down the hatches for a couple of years and a drop in
the polls won’t spook them so long as the economy picks up in a
couple of years. Ultimately success for the Tories will depend
on the economy growing.”  Declining Support  An ICM poll for  the Guardian newspaper  carried out Sept.
28-29 found support for the Tories dropping to 35 percent, two 
points behind the main opposition Labour Party, which elected  Ed Miliband  as its new leader last month.  In his speech today, Cameron will repeat the argument made
by Osborne two days ago that spending cuts announced so far have
ensured markets maintain confidence in the U.K., keeping
interest rates low and allowing businesses to invest and expand.
The prime minister recalled yesterday that Britain’s independent
budget watchdog is forecasting growth this year and next.  Cameron will also echo Osborne’s warning that banks must
increase lending to companies and entrepreneurs to help the
recovery. “Taxpayers bailed you out; now it’s time for you to
repay the favor and start lending to Britain’s small businesses
again,” Cameron will say.  The appeal to small-scale entrepreneurs, bolstered by the
announcement yesterday of 2,000-pound grants for unemployed
people wanting to set up their own businesses, may be an attempt
to signal that Cameron shares his supporters’ concerns and
values as cuts start to bite, said  Philip Cowley , professor of
politics at Nottingham University and author of “The British
General  Election  of 2010.”  ‘Wider Message’  “When he talks about these people, he’s not pitching for
their votes, because by and large he’s got them,” Cowley said
in a telephone interview. “He’s sending a wider message. It may
be an appeal to people who have that mindset.”  Cameron will also tell delegates that marriage will be
recognized in the tax system, a move not supported by the
 Liberal Democrats , with whom his party is in coalition. Under
the coalition agreement, the Liberal Democrats will abstain in
any vote on the measure in Parliament.  Yesterday, Cameron floated the possibility of using a
marriage tax break, by allowing wives to pass their tax
allowances to their husbands, to compensate higher-rate earners
in families where the mother stays at home for the loss of child
benefit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Birmingham, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Penny  in Birmingham, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 