-- Canadian Dollar Reaches Two-Month High on Rise in Stocks, Crude Oil Prices
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-05T20:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/canada-s-dollar-appreciates-on-increase-in-global-stocks-crude-oil-prices.html
Canada’s dollar rose to a two-month
high versus its U.S. counterpart as global stocks gained and
crude oil, the nation’s largest export, traded near an eight-
week high, making investments linked to growth more attractive.  The currency has strengthened 4.2 percent since hitting a
six-week low Aug. 31, as demand for the nation’s raw materials
recovered. Canada draws about half its export revenue from
commodities including oil, copper, lumber and wheat. The U.S.
dollar dropped to an 8-month low versus the euro.  “The Canadian dollar has shown strength as commodity
prices, most notably gold, are higher and the U.S. dollar get
weaker,” said  Eric Lascelles , chief rates strategist and
economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit. “As
the likelihood of more easing hits various central banks,
including the U.S. it’s increasing willingness for riskier
assets. Canada’s fiscal strength provides a strong backdrop for
the currency.”  Canada’s dollar, nicknamed the loonie, strengthened 0.7
percent to C$1.0167 per U.S. dollar at 4:11 a.m. in Toronto,
compared with C$1.0239 yesterday. It touched C$1.0154, the
strongest level since Aug. 6. One Canadian dollar buys 98.37
U.S. cents.  Greenback Parity  The loonie reached parity with the greenback April 6 for
the first time since July 2008 based on the prospect of higher
interest rates and stronger economic growth than in the U.S.  The MSCI World Index, a gauge of equities in 24 developed
nations, gained 2 percent to the highest level since May 4.
Crude for November delivery rose as much as 1.9 percent to
$82.93 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
since Aug. 4.  Gold climbed to a record in London and New York, with
immediate-delivery bullion adding as much as 1 percent to
$1,328.25 an ounce after Japan cut its key interest rate and
said it would step up asset purchases and as the dollar
weakened, boosting demand for gold as a protection of wealth.  Metals and minerals such as gold, silver, nickel and
potash, account for about 16 percent of the Bank of Canada’s
Commodity Price Index, while crude oil accounts for more than a
fifth.  ‘Risk-Seeking Mode’  “Markets are in risk-seeking mode,”  Camilla Sutton ,
director of currency strategy in Toronto at Bank of Nova
Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, said via e-mail. “The U.S. dollar
is broadly weaker, oil is flirting with $82 and gold has reached
another new high. There’s upside pressure on the Canadian
dollar.”  Government bonds were little changed, with the two-year
note yielding 1.36 percent, as the price of the 2 percent
security maturing in September 2012 was C$101.20. The 10-year’s
yield rose 1 basis point to 2.76 percent.  Economists cut their forecasts for Canadian bond yields for
a third month, predicting slower inflation and a more gradual
pace of central-bank lending rate increases than they did a
month ago, a Bloomberg survey showed.  The government’s 10-year bond will yield 3 percent at the
end of the year, according to the median of 14 estimates
gathered by Bloomberg News, down from 3.35 percent in the
previous monthly survey. The Bank of Canada will raise its
benchmark rate from today’s 1 percent in the second quarter of
next year instead of by year-end, the survey found.  Bank Policy  The Bank of Canada raised its benchmark rate to 1 percent
on Sept. 8, its third straight move. Last week, Governor  Mark Carney  said further increases “would need to be carefully
considered” given risks of a renewed U.S. slowdown and cooling
consumer spending in Canada.  The Reserve Bank of Australia kept its benchmark interest
rate at 4.5 percent. Most economists in a Bloomberg survey had
expected the central bank to raise the overnight cash rate
target.  “It seems there is a shrinking window of currencies that
aren’t being actively weakened, or who aren’t thinking about
putting rate increases on hold,” TD Securities’ Lascelles said.
“That is supporting Canada for now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net 
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  