-- Canadian Group Shelves Plan to Purchase Liverpool Over Valuation, Debts
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-05T14:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/canadian-group-shelves-plan-to-purchase-liverpool-over-valuation-debts.html
A Canada-based Syrian investor says
his group shelved plans to acquire Liverpool after failing to
agree on a price with the 18-time English soccer champion’s
owners and amid uncertainty over its debt.  Yahya Kirdi, who says he’s leading a Gulf-based group, said
the club’s three English directors are divided from American co-
owners  George Gillett  and  Tom Hicks . In June the board blocked
an attempt by Hicks to refinance parent company Kop Football
(Holdings) Ltd.’s 237 million-pound ($376 million) debt, which
has grown to about 280 million pounds because of penalty fees.  “Right now is not the time for me and my group to enter
into any negotiations,” Kirdi said in a telephone interview.
“Once everyone is united and there’s logic in the price and the
overall deal, me and my group will be prepared to return to the
table.”  Most of the debt is owned by  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  and is scheduled to mature later this month. That gives
prospective buyers days to reach a deal with Barclays Capital,
the adviser appointed by Gillett and Hicks in April to handle
the sale. The board plans to meet tomorrow. Hicks said the team,
which cost 219 million pounds including debt in 2007, is worth
as much as 800 million pounds.  If the club isn’t sold, and RBS doesn’t give the team’s
owners an extension,  Liverpool  may end up being run by the
government-owned lender. The bank hasn’t detailed what its plans
are should the debt be unpaid when it matures.  Public Interest  Kirdi and Hong Kong-based QSL Sports Ltd. were the only two
groups that went public with their interest. Indian conglomerate
Sahara said in August it looked at a bid but won’t make an offer
for the time being. QSL has also withdrawn.  Kirdi, a one-time pizza-business operator, said he
understood why his refusal to name his backers has provoked some
Liverpool supporters into questioning his seriousness. Gillett’s
son Foster is a friend of Kirdi. One fan website said the
Syrian’s interest was  “the joke bid.”   “I’m a serious man,” he said. “I’m not playing but my
group said they didn’t want to go public because we haven’t done
the deal.”  Liverpool, which is in the bottom three of the Premier
League after suffering its worst league start for more than half
a century, needs “millions and millions” to be spent on
rebuilding the team if it’s to start winning titles again, Kirdi
said.  Worst Start  He said potential buyers would probably want  RBS  to defer
much of the repayment of the loan as a condition of buying the
team.  “That would allow investment in the team and work on the
new stadium to begin,” he said.  Soccer is hugely popular in the Middle East. Qatar is
bidding to become the region’s first World Cup host in 2022 and
 Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan, a member of the Abu Dhabi
ruling family, has pumped more than 500 million pounds into
Manchester City since buying the team in 2008.  “Football is like drinking water: It’s in the blood in the
Gulf,” Kirdi said. “I’m sure if Liverpool was bought by
someone from the Middle East they would be like Sheikh Mansour
and focus on it 24 hours a day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  