-- Auto Deductions, Tousa, Tribune, Lehman: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-05T11:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/car-deduction-tousa-tribune-international-garden-loehmann-bankruptcy.html
The U.S. Supreme Court heard oral
arguments yesterday on the first of two bankruptcy cases to be
decided in the term that began this week. The argument was the
first heard by  Elena Kagan  since she was sworn in as an
associate justice on the court.  The case will decide whether an individual in Chapter 13
bankruptcy may take an auto expense deduction for a vehicle
owned free and clear. The outcome of the case affects how much
creditors must be repaid under a Chapter 13 plan when there is
no loan outstanding against a car.  If the auto deduction can be taken in absence of a car
loan, the individual in Chapter 13 will have less disposable
income and would thereby be permitted to discharge debt while
paying less to unsecured creditors. The U.S. courts of appeal
are split 3-1 on the answer.  The case turns on what Congress meant when it used the word
“applicable.” The case, known as Ransom, results from
ambiguities introduced into the federal bankruptcy law when
Congress tightened rules for individual bankrupts in 2005.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  summed up the reaction of
several justices when he said that the arguments by both sides
ultimately lead to “absurd results.” With regard to policy
issues, Justice Roberts asked why a bankrupt should be worse off
for paying off an auto loan in advance of bankruptcy.  Justice  Antonin Scalia  honed in on the exact language of
the statute and asked where the law says that deductions can be
taken in the “amount specified if applicable.”  Although the newest on the court, Justice Kagan wasn’t
afraid to ask questions during oral argument. Except for Justice
 Clarence Thomas , all of the justices participated actively in
questioning the lawyers.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco ruled in August
2009 that the deduction may not be taken when there is no debt
on the auto. Courts in St. Louis, New Orleans and Chicago ruled
the other way.  In a decision also in August 2009, the U.S. Court of
Appeals in St. Louis allowed the expense deduction, saying the
result was commanded by the literal wording of the statute
adopted by Congress. The two judges in the majority said they
were not persuaded by contrary arguments based on “broad
statements of legislative intent.  The dissenting judge in the St. Louis case followed the San
Francisco court, which said that disallowing the expense
deduction for a lien-free auto comported with congressional
intent “intended ‘to ensure that debtors repay creditors the
maximum they can afford.’”  For additional discussion of the issue, click here and read
the June 17 Bloomberg bankruptcy report under the heading
“Advance Sheets.”  The case in the Supreme Court is Ransom v. MBNA, 09-907,
U.S. Supreme Court.  The decision in the 9th Circuit is Ransom v. MBNA America
Bank, NA (In re Ransom), 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (San
Francisco). The 8th Circuit ruling going the other way is eCast
Settlement Corp. v. Washburn (In re Washburn), 08-2023, 8th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (St. Louis). The prior circuit court
cases also allowing the deduction are Tate v. Bolen (In re
Tate), 08-60953, 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New
Orleans), and Ross-Tousey v. Neary (In re Ross-Tousey), 07-2503,
7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Chicago).  Updates  Tousa Directors Lose Motion to Dismiss Creditor Suit  Directors of homebuilder  Tousa Inc.  lost a motion in which
they were attempting to dismiss a lawsuit filed against them by
the official creditors’ committee for breach of duty to the
company. Although the directors wrote 447 pages of briefs
explaining why they couldn’t be sued, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  John K. Olson  wrote a 25-page opinion yesterday explaining why they
could.  The committee’s suit relied largely the same facts that led
Olson in October 2009 to rule that bailing out an affiliate six
months before Chapter 11 resulted in fraudulent transfers that
could be recovered from secured lenders. To read about the suit
and other Tousa fraudulent transfer litigation, click here to
see the Jan. 8 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The directors argued that Delaware law gave them no
fiduciary duties to creditors of subsidiaries. Since the suit
was brought on behalf of the subsidiaries or their creditors,
the directors contended they had no liability.  Olson disagreed with the premise of the directors’ motion
to dismiss the complaint. He said there is “no basis in law for
the proposition that the directors of an insolvent subsidiary
can permit it to be plundered for the parent’s benefit.” He
said that “Delaware law expressly rejects the notion that
directors of a corporation owe no fiduciary duties” to an
affiliate they control.  Three times in the opinion, Olson said that some of the
directors’ arguments were “frivolous.”  Olson also rejected the directors’ argument that the
committee was improperly suing for wrongs done to creditors. He
pointed out how he authorized the committee to file suits based
on wrongs done to the subsidiaries. The so-called derivative
claims brought by the committee are proper, Olson said.  A derivative claim typically is one in which shareholders
sue to redress a wrong done to the company. When a company
becomes insolvent like Tousa, Olson pointed to the law in
Delaware, where creditors have the right to bring claims for
wrongs done to the company.  In denying the directors’ motion to dismiss, Olson was
required to assume the truth of the allegations in the
committee’s complaint. The directors can still win the case by
showing that the committee is wrong on the facts.  When Olson found the lenders liable last year for receiving
fraudulent transfers, he required the banks to post $700 million
in bonds to hold up enforcement of the judgment pending appeal.
The appeal is to be argued this month in U.S. District Court.
The suits are based on a theory that pledging assets of the
operating subsidiaries was a fraudulent transfer because the
subsidiaries received no benefit from a bailout and refinancing
in mid-2007 of a joint venture in  Transeastern Properties Inc.   Tousa has a hearing scheduled on Oct. 27 for approval of a
disclosure statement explaining the Chapter 11 plan filed in
July. For a summary of the plan, click here for the July 20
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The plan assumes appellate courts
uphold the judgment the creditors’ committee won in October 2009
against the lenders.  Tousa filed for bankruptcy reorganization in January 2008.
The Hollywood, Florida-based company listed assets of $2.1
billion against debt totaling $2 billion. At the outset of the
reorganization it was 67 percent-owned by  Technical Olympic SA .  The case is In re Tousa Inc., 08-10928, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  American Mortgage Has Plan Approval After Narrower Releases  American Mortgage Acceptance Co.  has a confirmed Chapter 11
plan that established a template for the extent of third-party
releases that U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Martin Glenn  in New York is
willing to allow.  At a hearing in June, Glenn refused to approve American
Mortgage’s disclosure statement because the plan would have
given blanket releases to officers and directors, in the process
prohibiting suits by shareholders and creditors. American
Mortgage revised the plan. Glenn signed a confirmation order
yesterday approving the plan which contains more narrow releases
for third parties.  Under the approved version of the plan, creditors and
shareholders aren’t being precluded from suing American
Mortgage’s officers, directors, employees and advisers for
violations of state or federal securities laws. Creditors will
be precluded from filing suits of other types.  American Mortgage itself can’t sue the officers, directors,
employees, and advisers. Likewise, shareholders can’t file so-
called derivative suits where they are suing in the name of the
company.  The revised plan trimmed down indemnifications American
Mortgage can give to its directors and officers. Now, directors
and officers will be indemnified only to the extent there was a
pre-bankruptcy law or agreement that called for indemnification.
The surviving indemnification obligations will represent
unsecured claims against American Mortgage not extinguished by
the plan.  Glenn allowed the plan to protect those who participated in
the plan-negotiation and confirmation process, so long as there
were no gross negligence or willful misconduct.  American Mortgage was a real estate investment trust that
had $666 million of assets in 2007. It now has two creditors. To
read about the original version of the plan, click here for the
May 14 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The case is In re American Mortgage Acceptance Co., 10-
12196, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
(Manhattan).  New Filing  International Garden, Rose Grower, Files in Delaware  International Garden Products Inc.  from Damascus, Oregon,
filed for Chapter 11 reorganization yesterday in Delaware along
with four affiliates. Through its Iseli Nursery Inc. affiliate,
the company produces dwarf conifers and Japanese maples. The
Weeks Wholesale Rose Grower affiliate is one of the largest
growers of roses in the U.S., a company statement said.  IGP blamed the filing in part on $27 million in what it
called legacy contingent liabilities on leases for a business
that was sold. The recession resulted in lower sales, and a
customer named Jackson & Perkins Wholesale Inc. went bankrupt
and didn’t take delivery for a rose bush order for spring 2010.
The Chapter 11 case is to be financed with a secured $7.5
million loan provided by a group led by Harris NA.  IGP owes $30.7 million on a secured revolving credit and
$13 million on a secured term loan.  The company said that customers can place orders for the
2011 season with “complete confidence.”  EF Private Equity Partners (Americas) LP has more than half
of the common stock and the Series A preferred stock.  The company has more than $10 million in debt and assets,
the petition says. IGP is a supplier for independent garden
stores, landscapers, and landscape suppliers.  The case is In re International Garden Products Inc., 10-
13207, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Briefly Noted  Loose Contract Leads to Long Lehman, Barclays Lawsuit  When U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James M. Peck authorized  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  to sell the North American investment
banking business to  Barclays Plc  four days after the Chapter 11
filing in September 2009, he permitted changes in the sale so
long as they weren’t material. The result has been a trial in
progress since April, where Lehman accuses Barclays of taking
billions of dollars more assets than the judge permitted.  To read a Bloomberg feature story, click here.  Tribune Reorganization Plan Due by Oct. 15, Judge Rules  Publisher  Tribune Co.  and any creditor wishing to propose a
reorganization must file a Chapter 11 plan by Oct. 15, the
bankruptcy judge said at a hearing yesterday. Tribune lost the
exclusive right to propose a plan because it’s been in Chapter
11 for more than 18 months.  Tribune said last week that it reached agreement on a plan
to be co-sponsored by creditors Oaktree Capital Management LP
and Angelo Gordon & Co. LP. The official creditors’ committee
immediately came out in opposition, saying the new company plan
would “not provide fair value to all creditors.”  Tribune had a plan on file that it withdrew in August
following a report by the examiner who concluded that there was
some likelihood that the second phase of the leveraged buyout in
December 2007 could be attacked successfully as a constructively
fraudulent transfer. The examiner found less likelihood that the
first phase of the transaction, in June 2007, could be unraveled
as a fraudulent transfer. For a summary of some of the
examiner’s conclusions, click here for the July 27 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. Tribune’s abandoned plan would have forced a
settlement of the LBO claims on terms that some creditors
opposed.  For details on the withdrawn plan, the proposed settlement,
and the parties’ arguments, click here for the April 13
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For a rundown on the new plan by
Tribune, Oaktree, and Angelo Gordon, click here for the Sept. 29
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For Bloomberg coverage on
yesterday’s hearing, click here.  The $13.7 billion leveraged buyout in 2007 was led by  Sam Zell .  Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District Delaware (Wilmington).  Daily Podcast  Supreme Court Argument, Claim Jumper Sale, DBSD Transfer  The Supreme Court argument where the Chief Justice said the
theories on both sides lead to “absurd results,” dueling plans
between SunCal Cos. and  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , the
auction for restaurant owner Claim Jumper Restaurants LLC, and
the impending reorganization of satellite phone provider DBSD
North America Inc. are subjects discussed in the bankruptcy
podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To
listen, click here.  Watch List  Loehmann’s Tenders for Secured Notes, Interest Missed  Loehmann’s Inc. , a discount retailer with more than 60
stores in 16 states, is making a tender offer for the $110
million in senior secured notes. Meanwhile, Loehmann’s won’t be
making the interest payment due Oct. 1, Standard & Poor’s said.  The notes, which are to mature in 2011, can be exchanged
for new notes in the same amount, maturing in 2014, so long as
the tender is made by Oct. 13. Anyone tendering later will
receive $970 for each $1,000 in old bonds.  In the event of a payment default, S&P said that holders of
the old notes likely won’t recover more than 10 percent.  The private exchange offer will expire on Oct. 27 unless
extended. To complete the exchange, at least 97 percent of the
old bonds must be tendered.  The Bronx, New York-based company is owned indirectly by
Istithmar PJSC, an investment firm owned by the government of
Dubai.  Loehmann’s emerged from a 14-month Chapter 11
reorganization with a confirmed plan in September 2000. At the
time, it was operating 44 stores in 17 states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 