-- Cebu, Philippine Share Sales Will `Temper' Record-Setting Rally, BPI Says
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2010-10-05T03:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/cebu-philippine-share-sales-will-temper-record-setting-rally-bpi-says.html
Philippine share sales, including the
nation’s biggest initial public offering in five years, may curb
demand for existing stock and halt seven quarters of gains, the
country’s second-largest fund manager said.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  will probably rise a
maximum 5 percent this quarter as Cebu Air Inc. and  SM
Development Corp.  sell a combined 36.9 billion peso ($844
million) of shares, drawing funds away from other stocks,
according to Olan Caperina, a fund manager at Manila-based Bank
of the Philippine Islands, also known as BPI.  “Some investors may pare their holdings to raise cash for
coming issuances and that could temper gains,” Caperina, who
helps manage $11.3 billion, said in an interview. “This is a
temporary slowdown in share price appreciation as the market
absorbs this new supply.”  Cebu Air, the nation’s second-biggest carrier, is raising
as much as 25.2 billion pesos in an initial share sale this
month while  SM Development , the third-largest developer by
market value, is holding an 11.7 billion peso rights offer. Cebu
Air’s IPO is the nation’s biggest since 2005.  The  Philippine stock index  rose 22 percent in the three
months ended Sept. 30, completing a record seventh quarterly
advance. It climbed 15 percent last  month  as the fastest
economic growth in three years, higher-than-estimated earnings
and low interest rates boosted stock trading.  Justifiable Valuation  The index rose 0.1 percent to 4,191.89 at 11:19 a.m. The
gauge may rise to between 4,500 and 4,900 in the next 12 months
as companies exceed analysts’ forecasts of 10 percent to 12
percent growth in 2011 earnings, according to Caperina.
 Valuations  will range between 15 times to 17 times estimated
earnings, he said. Companies in the benchmark index are valued
at 15.6 times this year’s forecast earnings, the highest since
December 2007.  “The valuations are justifiable,” Caperina said. “The
economy is growing and corporate earnings may still surprise on
the upside.”  Inflation slowed to 3.5 percent in September, a 10-month
low, giving the central bank room to keep its benchmark interest
rate at a record low and fuel expansion. The government plans to
build more power plants, roads, ports, railways and airports to
boost economic growth to between 7 percent and 8 percent a year
starting in 2011, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said in July.  Infrastructure Program  Investors should own shares of  DMCI Holdings Inc.,  the
nation’s largest construction company,  Metro Pacific Investments
Corp. , an owner of tollroads and utilities,  Energy Development
Corp.,  the biggest power producer using geothermal energy, and
 International Container Terminal Services Inc.,  the largest port
operator, as these stocks may benefit from the government’s
infrastructure program, Caperina said.  “Benign inflation,” low interest rates and rising
remittances of cash from Filipinos overseas will support
consumer spending and demand for homes, driving earnings at
snackmaker  Universal Robina Corp.  and property developers  Ayala
Land Inc.  and  Megaworld Corp.,  he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  