-- Global Central Bank Action May Follow BOJ Moves on Rates
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-10-06T08:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/central-banks-may-follow-boj-in-new-bond-purchase-round-as-growth-falters.html
The Bank of Japan may have acted
first in a round of central bank action to prop up the global
economy as recoveries in industrial nations falter.  The unexpected decision by the Japanese central bank
yesterday to drop its interest rate to “virtually zero” and
expand its balance sheet follows the U.S. Federal Reserve’s move
toward more unconventional easing. Bank of England officials
will consider further stimulus tomorrow, while the central banks
of Australia, Canada and New Zealand are among those now holding
fire on further interest-rate increases.  The renewed push for easier monetary policy comes as the
International Monetary Fund warns that growth in advanced
economies is falling short of its forecasts ahead of its annual
meetings in Washington this week. The dilemma for policy makers
is that their actions may do little to revive growth and end up
roiling currency markets.  “The Bank of Japan is at the head of the pack,” said
 Stewart Robertson , an economist at Aviva Investors in London,
which manages about $370 billion in assets. “It looks like a
lot of others will follow. Whether it’s right or not is another
matter.”  Group of Seven ministers will gather Oct. 8 in Washington
on the sidelines of the IMF meeting. Currency issues will be
discussed, Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who will
chair the meeting, said this week. Japanese Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  said he’s ready to explain his country’s actions
at that meeting.  BOJ Move  The Bank of Japan cut its overnight call rate target from
0.1 percent and established a 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) fund
to buy government bonds and other assets. It moved as the yen’s
surge to a 15-year high last month hurts exports and damps
economic growth. The yen traded at 83.13 per dollar at 2:32 p.m.
in Tokyo, close to a Sept. 15 record of 82.88.  Global stocks climbed on speculation that central banks
around the world will follow the Bank of Japan. The  Stoxx Europe
600 Index  rose 0.5 percent to 262.58 at 10:08 a.m. in Frankfurt.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index jumped 1.6 percent and Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures added 0.3 percent.  The Japanese central bank said today that weaker exports
and slower global growth are causing the nation’s rebound to
moderate. “Japan’s economy shows signs of a moderate recovery,
but the pace of recovery is slowing down,” the bank said in a
monthly economic report released in Tokyo.  ‘Vicious Spiral’  Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  may not be alone
for long in taking action. The Daiwa Institute of Research
argues he’s now engaged in a “vicious spiral” of monetary
easing with the Fed as both compete to bolster their economies.  “The BOJ’s next moves will depend on the Fed,” said  Maiko Noguchi , an economist at Daiwa in Tokyo. “The bank will have no
choice but to steadily take easing measures.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues have
signaled they may announce the purchase of more Treasuries as
soon as their next policy meeting on Nov. 2-3 in an effort to
boost growth and reduce an  unemployment rate  stuck near 10
percent for the past year.  “The irony is that the Fed is creating all this liquidity
with the hope that it will revive the U.S. economy,”  Joseph Stiglitz , a Nobel Prize-winning professor at New York’s Columbia
University, said today in New York. “It is doing nothing for
the U.S. economy and causing chaos for the rest of the world.”  Quantitative Easing  Bernanke said on Oct. 4 that  the Fed  had aided the economy
by buying $1.75 trillion of mortgage debt and Treasuries from
August 2008 through March 2010. Pacific Investment Management
Co. says a new round of quantitative easing, the policy of
creating money by enlarging the central bank’s balance sheet, is
“likely.”  “The bottom line for the U.S. is a growth trajectory so
slow you’d nearly call it stalled,”  Paul McCulley , a portfolio
investor at Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote on the
company’s website this week.  Steven Englander , New York-based head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Citigroup Inc., said he anticipates the
dollar will continue to fall, with the euro likely to pass
through $1.40 from $1.38 today. The dollar has already dropped 7
percent against the euro since the start of September.  Asset Purchases  At the Bank of England, policy maker  Adam Posen  made the
strongest call yet on Sept. 28 for the U.K. central bank to
resume asset purchases after keeping its bond-buying program at
200 billion pounds ($317 billion) for the past 11 months. That
proposal lays the ground for the first three-way split when the
Monetary Policy Committee meets tomorrow, with member  Andrew Sentance  advocating higher interest rates.  “At the present time, the growth threat is more of a
danger than inflation,” said  Graeme Leach , chief economist at
the Institute of Directors, a London-based business lobby group.
“Yes, inflation is above target now. But a double-dip recession
would raise the specter of deflation.”  The revival of quantitative easing is a reversal from
earlier this year, when central banks were halting stimulus or
debating how to tighten policy. What’s changed is the loss of
momentum in industrial economies.  John Lipsky , the IMF’s No. 2 official, said on Sept. 27
that global growth in the second half of the year will fall
short of the fund’s 3.75 percent forecast. The Washington-based
lender revises its outlook today.  Rates On Hold  While not yet looking to buy assets, some central banks are
suspending their interest-rate increase campaigns.  After embarking on the most aggressive policy tightening in
the Group of 20, the Reserve Bank of Australia unexpectedly left
its benchmark rate unchanged yesterday at 4.5 percent for a
fifth straight month. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , who
has overseen three rate hikes this year, said Sept. 30 that
“the unusual uncertainty surrounding the outlook warrants
caution.”  Not all policy makers are changing course. The central
banks of Israel and Taiwan raised borrowing costs in the last 10
days and the European Central Bank, whose Governing Council
convenes tomorrow in Frankfurt, has indicated it wants to
continue withdrawing liquidity support for banks.  The ECB will be forced to postpone tighter policy as
European exports fade and investors continue to fret about
peripheral euro-area economies such as Portugal and Ireland,
said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Inc. in London.  ‘Downside Risks’  “The ECB’s exit strategy is fully on, but the business
cycle will turn against them,” said Peruzzo. “The
communication will then be adjusted to consider downside risks
greater than what they have anticipated.”  The ECB last week stepped up its government bond purchases
as the cost of insuring against default on Portuguese government
debt surged to a record and Irish bond spreads soared to euro-
era highs.  The question for those central banks leaning toward buying
more assets is whether doing so will actually bolster expansion,
said  Charles Dumas , director of international research at
Lombard Street Research Ltd., a London-based consultancy.  “Is quantitative easing going to cause people to spend
more? I don’t think so,” he said. “It does add value in
reducing the risk of a downward spiral in markets.”  Another risk is that the use of unconventional monetary
policy is viewed as an effort to weaken currencies to boost
exports, said  Eric Chaney , chief economist at AXA Group in
Paris. Japan, Switzerland and Brazil are among the countries
that have already intervened in markets to restrain their
exchange rates.  “This is close to a currency war,” said Chaney, a former
official at the French France Ministry. “It’s not through
exchange-rate manipulation, but through monetary policies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  