-- Chavez Confirms Expropriation of Venezuelan Agriculture Supply `Oligopoly'
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2010-10-05T18:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/chavez-confirms-expropriation-of-venezuelan-agriculture-supply-oligopoly-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
announced the “forced acquisition” of the country’s leading
farm-supply business because it had created “an oligopoly in
the agricultural raw materials market.”  The  company , Agroislena C.A. Sucesora de Enrique Fraga
Afonso, was using its “position of dominance” to “speculate”
and charge as much as 250 percent above the recommended retail
price, according to a decree in today’s Official Gazette.
Agroislena said the expropriation will have “adverse effects on
national agricultural production” in a statement published in
newspaper Ultimas Noticias.  “The only explanation that occurs to us for the moment is
that the president of the republic has not been sufficiently
well informed of the enormous contribution we have given to the
development of the Venezuelan countryside,” the company said.  Chavez has expropriated food processors, stores and more
than 6 million acres (2.5 million hectares) of farms and ranches
as the government battles food shortages. The president has said
he plans to continue to nationalize Venezuela’s agricultural
sector “at a gallop” to boost food output in South America’s
third-biggest economy, which imports about 70 percent of what
Venezuelans eat.  Chavez said the nationalization of Agroislena would result
in lower production costs by eliminating “the chain of
speculating intermediaries.”  Spanish Immigrant  Agroislena was founded in 1958 by Enrique Fraga Afonso, a
Spanish immigrant, as a vendor of onion seeds. It sells more
than 3,000 agricultural products and currently produces more
than 800,000 tons of corn, rice and sorghum, according to its
statement. Agroislena sells products on credit to more than
18,000 farmers, the statement said.  The government took over Agroislena’s properties today,
Agriculture Vice Minister Ivan Gil said in comments carried on
state television. Farmers would be paid for the products they
had sold to Agroislena, Gil said.  Chavez compared the expropriation to a divorce and said he
would pay Agroislena “what it really costs.”  “We got tired of each other,” Chavez said in a telephone
interview broadcast on state television late last night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  