-- Chile Central Bank Considered Slowing Rate Increases at September Meeting
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-05T18:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/chile-s-central-bank-voted-unanimously-on-sept-16-interest-rate-increase.html
Chile’s central bank committee
members considered slowing the pace of interest rate increases
in September as the peso appreciated and consumer prices rose
less than expected.  Policy makers considered raising rates by a quarter point
and half point before voting unanimously to increase the
 benchmark interest rate  to 2.5 percent from 2 percent, according
to minutes of the meeting published today on the central bank’s
website.  The board’s willingness to consider a quarter-point
increase in September suggests the bank may slow the pace of
increases in coming months,  Florencia Vazquez , an economist at
BNP Paribas, said in a note e-mailed to investors today.  “Our forecast currently pencils in one additional 50
basis-point hike in October before the central bank moderates
the pace of tightening,” she said. “This expected trajectory
leaves the policy rate at 3.5 percent by year-end.”  The central bank’s five-member policy board, led by bank
President  Jose De Gregorio , raised rates by a half-point in the
last four monthly policy meetings and considered a 0.50-point
increase the “most plausible” option in July and August,
according to the August minutes.  Stronger Peso  The board also discussed the country’s currency, noting
that the peso’s appreciation is a “factor of concern” and
could have an impact on monetary policy, according to the
meeting minutes.  “One board member added that the real exchange rate had
stayed in ranges considered to be in equilibrium over the long
term but that, clearly, it had moved to the lower part of that
range,” according to the minutes.  In trading today, the peso gained 0.7 percent to 483.05 per
dollar at 2:52 p.m. New York time from 486.21 yesterday.  The peso has appreciated 11.6 percent in the last three
months, the best performance among seven Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  A stronger peso reduces the costs of imports and can
mitigate the pace at which the central bank increases interest
rates, De Greogrio said in a Sept. 12 interview.  Inflation has been surprisingly low because of one-time
events and seasonal factors, some of the board members said,
according to the meeting minutes.  Consumer prices  fell 0.1 percent in August from the
previous month, increasing 2.6 percent from last year, the
National Statistics Institute said Sept. 8. The central bank
targets annual inflation at 3 percent.  Lowest Rate  Chile has the lowest benchmark rate of Latin America’s
major economies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank’s monetary policy has helped Chile recover
from the 2009 economic slump and the Feb. 27 earthquake that
caused an estimated $30 billion in damage, De Gregorio said in a
Sept. 10 speech in Santiago.  Chile’s economy is set to grow 5 percent to 5.5 percent
this year, which would be the fastest expansion since 2005, the
central bank said in its latest monetary policy report.  Policy makers will increase rates to 3 percent this month
and to 4.25 percent in six months, according to the median
forecast of 39 traders and investors in a bi-weekly central bank
survey.  Annual inflation will reach 3.2 percent in 12 months, the
survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  