-- Citigroup Poaches Nomura's Staff in Europe, Hires Three Energy Analysts
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-10-05T12:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/citigroup-hires-nomura-s-europe-energy-analysts-memo-says.html
Citigroup Inc.  has hired three
European energy analysts and one equity salesman from Nomura
Holdings Inc. as it expands its coverage of oil and gas stocks.  Alastair Syme  will join the New York-based bank as managing
director of the energy research team in London, according to an
internal memo dated Oct. 4 obtained by Bloomberg News. He will
report to Terence Sinclair, head of the bank’s research
business.  Citigroup also poached analysts  Michael Alsford  and  Ryan Kauppila  from the Japanese bank, while  James Talbot  will become
managing director of energy specialist sales, the memo said.
Alsford will be director and Kauppila will be vice president of
the team, the document added.  “We are building the best energy research team on the
street anywhere in the world,” Sinclair wrote in the memo. The
analysts will join a team of at least five working on energy
companies in Europe.  Citigroup said on Sept. 15 that it had hired a group of UBS
AG energy investment bankers including its global head,  Stephen Trauber . Trauber may earn $30 million over three years, the Wall
Street Journal reported last month, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter.  Mark Fletcher , Citigroup’s current managing director of the
energy research team, will move internally to focus on emerging
Europe oil and gas markets, the memo said. His replacement,
Syme, will return to Citigroup after leaving for Merrill Lynch
in 2001, where he led the energy research team until his
departure to Nomura in 2009, the document said.  A geologist from the University of Canterbury in New
Zealand, Syme topped the oil and gas European analyst ranking in
Institutional Investor magazine’s annual poll in 2009 and 2010,
the memo said. Talbot was voted top specialist salesperson in
oil and gas across Europe in the 2010 Thomson Extel survey.  Jonathan Hodgkinson , a Nomura spokesman in London, declined
to comment. Spokespeople for Citigroup weren’t immediately
available.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
David Merritt at 
 merritt1@bloomberg.net . 