-- Clarin Surges as Argentina Supreme Court Keeps Freeze on Part of Media Law
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-05T18:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/clarin-surges-as-argentina-supreme-court-keeps-freeze-on-part-of-media-law.html
Argentina’s Supreme Court kept a
freeze on a portion of the country’s media law that requires
companies including  Grupo Clarin SA  to sell some of their assets
within a year, the Court Information Center said.  The seven-member court unanimously backed lower court
rulings that prevented it from going into effect, according to a
statement on the information center’s  website . The judges said
the lower courts will make a final ruling on the law’s validity
within a “reasonable” period of time.  Grupo Clarin jumped as much as 15 percent on the news, the
biggest rise in more than a year. The shares advanced 13 percent
to 17.55 pesos in Buenos Aires at 2:30 p.m. New York time.  Grupo Clarin, the country’s biggest media company, had
filed court documents to stop the article from going into
effect, saying it would retroactively affect already acquired
rights to television and radio stations. The law, approved by
Congress last year, says companies have one year to make the
adjustments “from the time that authorities define the
transition mechanisms.”  Grupo Clarin owns the newspaper Clarin, the most widely
read Spanish-language daily in Latin America, along with
television and radio stations, cable companies and Internet-
service providers.  The company also has a 49 percent stake in Papel Prensa SA,
a newsprint producer. President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
asked a court to review the 1976 purchase of the paper maker,
saying the previous owner, Grupo Graiver, was under pressure by
the country’s military dictatorship to agree to the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  