-- Colombia May See an IPO `Boom' on Exchange Integration With Chile, Peru
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2010-10-05T21:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/colombia-may-see-an-ipo-boom-on-exchange-integration-with-chile-peru.html
Colombia  may list another 200
companies on its exchange within a decade as an integration with
Peru and Chile spurs investor demand, said  Cristian Moreno , head
of Latin American equity research at Santander in New York.  Colombia, which accounts for 7.8 percent of Latin America’s
listed companies compared with 17.5 percent for Peru, has listed
49 companies with a market capitalization of over $100 million
each, Moreno said. Transport, commerce and manufacturing
companies are “underrepresented” in the market, he said.  “Integration could be an important step towards an IPO
boom in Colombia,” Moreno told investors at a Council of the
Americas event in New York. “There are many companies with
sufficient size to be listed.”  Colombia, Chile and Peru will integrate their exchanges at
the end of November, Colombia stock exchange President  Juan Pablo Cordoba  said at the event. The integrated market will be
Latin America’s top issuer with a total 563 stocks, and second
in market capitalization with $564 billion, behind Brazil with
$1.28 trillion, he said.  Companies including  Banco Colpatria , paper manufacturer
 Carvajal SA ,  Renault SA ’s Colombian assembly unit and sweets
manufacturer  Colombina SA  may list to tap increased access to
investors through the integrated exchange, said  Rupert Stebbings , head of the Colombian unit of Chilean brokerage
Celfin Capital SA.  “Some smaller companies may merge first before going to
the market,” Stebbings said in a telephone interview. “With a
large market to issue into, there are a lot of firms here that
could list.”  Colombia’s IGBC Index rose 1.6 percent to 14,927.93 today,
while the Colcap Index increased 1.6 percent to 1,794.73.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net . 