-- Continental Union Spurns United Joint-Contract Plan
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-10-05T21:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/continental-attendants-spurn-united-union-s-joint-contract-plan.html
Continental Airlines flight
attendants declined to join their peers at merger partner United
Airlines in immediate contract talks at the combined carrier,
possibly slowing work on a joint labor agreement.  United attendants said in an exchange of letters that
working together now would give them more clout in talks with
United Continental Holdings Inc., the company created by the
Oct. 1 merger. Continental attendants want to vote first on an
accord reached with that airline, said  Joseph Tiberi , a
Machinists union spokesman.  The disagreement may imperil Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Smisek ’s goal of having joint contracts with all labor groups by
the time Chicago-based United Continental Holdings, the world’s
largest carrier, receives a single airline operating certificate
in about a year.  “Getting a transition agreement would be important, both
in delivering benefits to the company, which could conceivably
be shared back, but also just to get agreement between the
parties on some of the thornier issues before a single-carrier
certificate,”  Robert Mann , president of airline consultant R.W.
Mann & Co. in Port Washington, New York, said today in an
interview.  Single contracts are “essential” as the combined airline
works toward a goal of as much as $1.2 billion in annual savings
and new revenue by 2013, Mann said. Streamlined operations under
a joint accord allow savings to be achieved sooner.  Choosing Representatives  Workers normally would vote on which union represents them
and then negotiate a new contract to cover all employees in that
labor group. The  Association of Flight Attendants,  which
represents 16,000 United workers, instead wants to negotiate a
joint contract to be administered by the union selected later to
represent the attendants, said  Sara Nelson , an AFA spokeswoman.  The AFA points to pilots at  Delta Air Lines Inc.  and
Northwest Airlines Corp., who negotiated a joint contract with
Delta before those two carriers completed their merger. Both
pilot groups were members of the Air Line Pilots Association.  In contrast, pilots and flight attendants at  US Airways
Group Inc.  work under separate agreements five years after
America West Holdings Corp. and US Airways combined. Without
single contracts, US Airways must maintain separate scheduling
and work rules, pay and benefit plans for each company.  The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers  and Continental announced a tentative contract agreement
on Sept. 30. The airline’s 9,300 flight attendants will begin
voting on the plan later this month. If approved, it will stay
in place until a joint contract is negotiated by the union
elected to represent attendants at both carriers.  Members’ Best Interests  “To accept the AFA offer would have meant ignoring our
legal obligations to act in the best interest of the members we
currently represent,” Tiberi, a spokesman at the national IAM
office in Washington, said today. “We will be back at the table
after representation issues are resolved. That is when the
combined flight attendant group will negotiate a transition
agreement.”  Union leaders at Continental thought it more important to
first secure retroactive raises, merger protection and a no-
furlough clause in the contract talks that just resulted in an
agreement, Tiberi said.  Carrier Involvement  Continental and United aren’t involved in the question of
whether the flight attendants should negotiate jointly or
separately,  Julie King , a spokeswoman for United Continental
Holdings, said in an e-mail.  The AFA in separate talks has rejected United’s offer to
use the prior Continental accord as a basis for a new contract.
While the Continental plan pays higher base wages, its employees
work a longer day and may be scheduled to fly more hours each
month. United said on its negotiations website on Sept. 27 that
AFA bargainers aren’t engaging in “any ‘give and take’
bargaining on issues of economic importance.”  The contract would mean concessions for United attendants,
Nelson said.  Continental flight attendants want to vote on their pending
agreement with the carrier, because it’s “money in the bank,”
said  Jeff Straebler , an RBS Securities Inc. analyst in Stamford,
Connecticut.  United Continental Holdings rose 37 cents, or 1.5 percent,
to $24.47 at 4:04 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  