-- Crucifixion Artist Flees Russia, Fears Jail as Censorship Rises
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2010-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/crucifixion-artist-flees-russia-fears-interpol-jail-as-censorship-surges.html
“Russian prison means death for
people like me,” said  Oleg Mavromatti,  a filmmaker and
performance artist.  Mavromatti, 45, fled to Bulgaria in 2000 after the Russian
Orthodox Church complained about a movie he was shooting in
which he is crucified. He was accused of violating a criminal
code that includes inciting religious hatred and denigrating the
church, an offense punishable by as much as five years in
prison.  Last month, the Russian consulate in Sofia refused to renew
Mavromatti’s passport.  “They gave me two options,” he said in a telephone
interview from his apartment in Sofia. “Either I voluntarily fly
to Moscow and stand trial or  Interpol  comes after me.”  Mavromatti’s case highlights what human-rights activists
see as a return to Soviet-style censorship, with a resurgent
Russian Orthodox Church playing a central role and the Kremlin
supporting it.  Last month, four artworks by Avdei Ter-Oganian were
temporarily withheld by Russian authorities from an exhibition
at the  Louvre  Museum in Paris because, a Culture Ministry
official said, they incited religious hatred. This summer, two
prominent art curators were found guilty of the same crime
because several works in the  “Forbidden Art”  exhibition they
organized in 2007 were considered offensive, including a
depiction of a Christ figure with a Mickey Mouse head.  “Some people may find a particular work of art offensive or
disagreeable, however this cannot be the basis for restricting
the right to freedom of expression,” said Denis Krivosheev, a
researcher on Russia at Amnesty International in London.  Recession, Iraq War  Mavromatti has spent the past decade in Sofia and New York
where he regularly showed at  Exit Art , a nonprofit exhibition
space. In his performance-art pieces, his subjects have included
the financial crisis and the war in Iraq.  After Russian authorities released Ter-Oganian’s work, the
Prague-based artist  announced  he wouldn’t participate in the
Louvre show unless Mavromatti’s passport is renewed.  In New York, Mavromatti’s backers include U.S. Senator
 Kirsten Gillibrand , Exit Art director Jeanette Ingberman, art
dealer Ronald Feldman and  Mark Rothko ’s son Christopher Rothko.
All of them have written letters to immigration officials in
Bulgaria and to the United Nations High Commissioner for
 Refugees  in support of Mavromatti’s application for the
humanitarian-refugee status he would need to enter another
country.  After learning on Sept. 11 that Mavromatti’s passport
wasn’t renewed, Ingberman called Feldman, who had campaigned on
behalf of Soviet dissidents in the 1970s and 1980s.  “It’s a dangerous sign that democracy in Russia is
struggling,” Feldman said. He and Ingberman buttonholed
Gillibrand at a reception and told the senator about
Mavromatti’s plight.  “Time is running out,” said Feldman. “We want to forestall
his deportation. We don’t want to fight this battle in Russia.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 