-- Crude Oil Rises on Port Closures, Speculation of Growth in U.S.
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-10-05T20:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/crude-oil-rises-on-port-closures-speculation-of-growth-in-u-s-.html
Crude oil surged to the highest level
in five months on speculation that central banks will keep
stoking economic growth and as the dollar fell against the euro.  Oil climbed 1.7 percent as the Japanese Central Bank said
it would keep the benchmark interest rate at “virtually zero.”
Federal Reserve Bank Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday a
first round of asset purchases in the U.S. improved the economy
and that further buying is likely. The weaker dollar bolsters
commodities as an alternative investment.  “There’s a lot of interest in the Bank of Japan’s moves
and speculation the Fed will follow with further action,” said
 Chris Barber , a senior analyst at Energy Security Analysis Inc.
in Wakefield, Massachusetts. “The dollar keeps getting
weaker.”  Crude oil for November delivery increased $1.35 to $82.82 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since May 3. Futures are up 4.4 percent this year.  Prices slipped from the settlement after the American
Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles increased 4.44 million barrels to 366.1 million.
November oil was up 98 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $82.45 a barrel
in electronic trading at 4:35 p.m.  Brent crude oil for November settlement climbed $1.56, or
1.9 percent, to end the session at $84.84 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest
settlement since May 4.  Additional Purchases  Bernanke and other officials have signaled over the past
two weeks that the central bank may purchase more Treasuries at
its next policy meeting Nov. 2-3 to boost economic growth and
reduce an unemployment rate holding at 9.5 percent or higher for
the past year.  “I do think that the additional purchases -- although we
don’t have precise numbers for how big the effects are -- I do
think they have the ability to ease financial conditions,”
Bernanke said yesterday at a forum with college students in
Providence, Rhode Island.  Oil also climbed after service companies in the U.S.
 expanded  at a faster pace in September, signaling the economic
recovery is picking up. The Institute for Supply Management’s
index of non-manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90
percent of the economy, climbed to 53.2 from 51.5 in August.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected the index would
rise to 52.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index rose 2.1 percent to
1,160.75, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 1.8
percent to 10,944.72.  Weaker Dollar  The dollar touched $1.3859 per euro, the lowest level since
Feb. 4. The greenback lost 11 percent of its value against the
common currency in the previous three months, the biggest
quarterly decline since 2002.  “It’s all about the dollar,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of Schork Group Inc., a consulting company in
Villanova, Pennsylvania. “If you want to trade commodities
right now, you have to follow the dollar’s movement. There’s a
strong correlation. As currency goes higher, oil drops.”  The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 commodities advanced
1.6 percent to 288.42, the highest level since January. Gold
futures for December delivery rose $23.50, or 1.8 percent, to
$1,340.30 on the Comex in New York, a record settlement.  A strike at French oil terminals threatened to spread to
local refineries while the Houston Ship Channel remained closed.  “It looks like the French port-worker strike may spread to
refineries, which would tighten global fuel markets,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures Inc. in New
York. “You could see U.S. fuel imports drop if the strike
spreads.”  Marseille Strike  The strike at Marseille, France’s biggest oil port,
continued for a ninth day, delaying ships from docking and
reducing operations at refineries in the area. A total of 44
ships are waiting outside the harbor, including 15 crude tankers
and 14 oil-products carriers, the Marseille Port Authority said
today.  Six refineries in France and one in Switzerland are
operating at “minimal rates” to save crude supplies and avoid
having to stop operations entirely,  Jean-Louis Schilansky , head
of the refiners’ organization Union Francaise des Industries
Petrolieres, said in a telephone interview.  The Houston Ship Channel will remain closed to most vessels
until tomorrow because of repairs to a damaged tower that
supports power cables, according to the U.S. Coast Guard.  Fifteen tankers are waiting to enter the Houston port and
ship channel, Manuel Vela, an employee at the U.S. Coast Guard
Vessel Traffic Service, said in a phone interview.  Saudi Prices  Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest state-owned oil company,
raised November official selling prices for all crude grades for
customers in Asia and on light and medium blends to the U.S.  The company bolstered the formula price for Arab Super
Light crude to Asia the most, increasing it by 90 cents a barrel
to $1.90 above the benchmark Dubai price assessment published by
Platts, a person familiar with the decision said.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 812,710
contracts as of 4:38 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 726,616
contracts yesterday, 11 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.37 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 