-- Crude Oil Rises on Port Closures, Speculation of Growth in U.S.
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-10-05T12:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/crude-oil-pares-losses-to-trade-near-an-eight-week-high-as-dollar-weakens.html
Oil rose to trade near an eight-week
high on speculation that steps by central banks to stoke
economic growth will bolster demand for crude and before a
report that may show U.S. fuel supplies are shrinking.  Futures reversed earlier losses as the dollar slumped
against the euro, boosting the appeal of commodities to
investors. U.S. gasoline and distillate fuel stockpiles probably
declined last week as refiners cut runs, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. A strike at French oil terminals
threatened to spread to local refineries while the Houston Ship
Channel remained closed.  “The last few days there’s been no stopping this
market,” said  Alexander Ridgers , head of commodities at London-
based CMC Markets, which handles more than $150 million a day in
U.S. crude contracts. “We’re seeing retail investors being
drawn back into oil.”  Crude for November delivery rose as much as 71 cents, or
0.9 percent, to $82.18 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange and traded at $82.02 at 1:10 p.m. London time. The
contract reached 82.38 yesterday, the highest price since Aug.
6. Brent crude for November settlement was up 45 cents at $83.73
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Oil rose on signs that central banks will take further
steps to secure economic recovery. The Bank of Japan today
pledged to keep its benchmark interest rate at “virtually
zero” after unexpectedly reducing borrowing costs. Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the first round of large-scale
asset purchases in the U.S. improved the economy and that
further buying is likely to help more.  Dollar Weakens  The dollar fell against the 16-nation euro, bolstering the
investment appeal of commodities. The greenback was at $1.3769
against the common currency, after touching $1.3807 yesterday,
the weakest rate since March 17.  “There is a view that further quantitative easing in the
U.S. could help boost the economy,” said  Hannes Loacker , an
analyst at Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich in Vienna.
“Investment into oil could well be expanded.”  A strike at Marseille, France’s biggest oil port, continued
for a ninth day, delaying ships from docking and reducing
operations at refineries in the area. A total of 44 ships are
waiting outside the harbor, including 15 crude tankers and 14
oil-products carriers, the Marseille Port Authority said today  Workers at French refineries, especially near the southern
port, may go on strike in the coming days out of sympathy for
the port employees, according to a representative of the
Confederation Generale du Travail labor union.  Declining Products Supplies  Crude stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s largest oil
consumer, probably gained 1 million barrels in the week to Oct.
1, according to the median of estimates from 11 analysts before
an Energy Department report tomorrow. That would put
inventories, previously at 357.9 million, at the highest level
since Sept. 3.  Refineries are expected to have reduced  operating rates  by
0.45 percentage point from 85.8 of capacity, the lowest since
April, according to the survey.  Gasoline  stockpiles decreased 250,000 barrels last week,
from 222.6 million, based on the survey.  Distillate  supplies,
including heating oil and diesel, probably fell 1 million
barrels from 173.6 million, the survey showed. The industry-
funded American Petroleum Institute publishes its own weekly
supply report today.  Long Positions  Hedge funds raised bets on crude oil in the seven days
ended Sept. 28, according to the weekly Commitments of Traders
report from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Net-long 
positions in crude oil rose 10,583, or 10 percent, to 116,906,
the data showed.  The Houston Ship Channel will remain closed to most vessels
until at least late today because of repairs to a damaged tower
that supports power cables, according to the U.S. Coast Guard.  Valero Energy Corp.’s Houston refinery, Royal Dutch Shell
Plc’s Deer Park plant, Pasadena Refining Systems Inc.’s facility
and Lyondell Industries NV’s 302,000 barrel-a-day unit are
potentially affected by the delay, Coast Guard Lieutenant Robert
Cole said yesterday. Eight of 24 inbound tankers were heading
for refineries served by the Houston port and ship channel,
according to Cole. Seven tankers were waiting to leave the port.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  