-- CT Scans Increase Threefold in Emergency Rooms, Raising Costs
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-10-05T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/ct-scan-use-rises-threefold-in-emergency-rooms-raising-costs-study-shows.html
Use of advanced radiology to assess
injuries increased about threefold over 10 years in emergency
rooms in the U.S., raising costs and possibly adding to cancer
risk, researchers said.  About 15 percent of the 6,567 patients with injuries who
came to emergency departments in 2007 in cases surveyed by the
researchers received  computerized tomography  or magnetic
resonance imaging scans, according to the  study  from Johns
Hopkins University in Baltimore. That compared with about 6
percent of 5,237 in 1998, the researchers said today in the
Journal of the American Medical Association.  Increased use of CT scans is linked with higher health-care
costs, longer emergency-room stays and more radiation exposure,
which may lead to cancer, the authors wrote. Future research
should determine why CT scan use is rising and how to target
imaging to those most in need, according to the article.  “We need to be smarter about imaging and we need to really
look at the clinical situation and ask the question, ‘Does this
patient really need the study?’” said  David Waldman , chairman
of the Department of Imaging Sciences at the University of
Rochester Medical Center, in Rochester, New York, who wasn’t
involved in the study. “Just because it’s easy now to get a CT
scan doesn’t mean it’s the right thing to do.”  CT scans provide more details than a traditional X-ray. The
scanners are made by Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General
Electric Co. , Tokyo-based  Toshiba Corp. , Munich-based  Siemens
AG , and Amsterdam-based  Royal Philips Electronics NV .  Spending Doubles  Annual spending on CT imaging more than doubled to $2.17
billion by 2007 from $975 million in 2000, according to a U.S.
Government Accountability Office report cited by the study’s
authors.  The researchers in the study used data from the  National
Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey  to determine trends in
the use of radiology during emergency department visits from
1998 to 2007.  The scientists reviewed the cases of 65,376 people treated
for injuries from events such as falls and car accidents. The
cases were deemed representative of an estimated average of 22.4
million injury-related visits to emergency rooms each year.  Patients were 3.43 times more likely to receive a CT scan
or  MRI  in 2007 than those in 1998, according to the study.  The percentage of patients diagnosed with life-threatening
conditions, such as cervical spine fractures, was 2 percent in
2007 compared with 1.7 percent in 1998. Almost no change was
seen in the proportion of hospital admissions for these
patients, the study showed.  Message for Public  “Using CT and MRI scans comes at a cost and the cost is
financial,”  Frederick Kofi Korley , the lead study author and an
assistant professor of emergency medicine at Johns Hopkins, said
in a telephone interview on Oct. 1. “For the general public the
message is, a scan is not always absolutely necessary.”  Health-care spending was $1.1 trillion in 1998, or an
average of $4,094 a person and  representing  13.5 percent of the
gross domestic product, according to the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services.  In 2007, health-care spending was $2.2 trillion, or $7,421
a person, and  represented  16.2 percent of GDP, the department
reported.  Among the reasons CT scan use may be rising are that more
patients ask for the tests, doctors feel they may gain more
diagnostic information, more emergency departments have the
scanners, and doctors may fear being sued for failing to use the
technology, said  Rita Redberg , a professor of medicine at the
University of California, San Francisco.  A December study in the Archives of Internal Medicine found
that radiation from CT scans may cause cancer decades later. A
second study at the same time showed that radiation doses from
CT scans vary and are higher than previously thought.  Redberg, an editor of the Archives who wrote an editorial
accompanying the December studies, said she wants to see data to
assess whether the use of CT scans has declined this year.  “I’m hoping in the last few months there have been some
more thoughtful use of CT scans,” Redberg said in a telephone
interview on Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  