-- Cuomo Leads Paladino by 24 Points in New York Governor's Race, Poll Shows
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-10-05T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/cuomo-has-24-point-lead-over-paladino-in-new-york-governor-race-poll-says.html
New York  gubernatorial candidate
 Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, leads Republican  Carl Paladino  by 24
points in a poll of likely voters by the  Siena Research
Institute.   About six of 10 voters had a negative view of Paladino and
agreed that he is “a loose cannon, who doesn’t have the
temperament to be governor,” according to the survey. The poll
was conducted Oct. 3-4, after Paladino accused Cuomo of marital
infidelity and was involved in a  shouting match  with a reporter
who asked for proof of the charge.  Cuomo was supported by 56 percent of voters, with 32
percent backing Paladino. In a Siena poll of registered voters
released last month, Cuomo led by 33 points. Since then
Conservative Party candidate  Rick Lazio  abandoned the race and
that party switched its endorsement to Paladino.  “Cuomo continues to enjoy a very strong favorability
rating,” said  Steven Greenberg , pollster for the Siena Research
Institute in Loudonville, New York, in a statement. “While
Paladino has quickly become very well-known among New York
voters, it is not in a good way.”  Cuomo is viewed favorably by 56 percent of voters and
unfavorably by 37 percent. Paladino is viewed favorably by 30
percent and unfavorably by 59 percent, according to the survey.  Spending Cuts  Paladino, 64, a Buffalo real estate developer and supporter
of the Tea Party movement, has promised to cut state spending by
20 percent and taxes by 10 percent. A self-described political
outsider, he attempts to contrast himself with Cuomo, 52, the
state’s attorney general and a son and adviser to former
Governor Mario Cuomo. He is also a former U.S. Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development.  Cuomo also says the state needs spending cuts, though he
hasn’t said how much. Both candidates support the idea of a
state law capping increases in local government property taxes.  About 55 percent of voters agreed that Cuomo’s government
experience “is what we need in order to move New York towards
fiscal health,” according to the survey. About 45 percent
agreed that Paladino’s business experience is what the state
needs.  New York, which faces an $8.2 billion  budget deficit  next
year, has the highest combined state and local taxes in the U.S.
after Alaska, according to state budget documents.  Cuomo’s strongest support was in New York City, where 70
percent of voters backed him and 17 percent favored Paladino.
Upstate voters were more evenly divided with 45 percent for
Cuomo and 43 percent for Paladino.  The telephone survey of 636 likely registered voters has a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.9 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  