-- Currency Controls Rising on Korea Audit, Brazil Taxes
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-10-05T10:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/currency-controls-tighten-as-korea-audits-banks-brazil-doubles-bond-tax.html
Governments from South Korea to
Brazil are stepping up attempts to control their currencies as
investors pour a record amount of money into emerging markets.  Regulators in Seoul will start an audit of lenders handling
foreign-currency derivatives on Oct. 19 to curb volatility
caused by capital flows, the finance ministry said today. Brazil
doubled a tax it charges foreigners on investments in fixed-
income securities to 4 percent yesterday. The yen fell the most
in three weeks after the Bank of Japan cut benchmark interest
rates and pledged 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) to buy bonds and
other assets, having sold $25 billion worth of its own currency
last month in the first intervention since 2004.  Policy makers are trying to limit inflows after the Korean
won climbed 8 percent in the past three months to the strongest
since May and Brazil’s real gained 4.7 percent to a two-year
high. Investors have plowed a record $49.4 billion into
emerging-market stock funds this year and $39.5 billion into
bond funds, EPFR Global data show. Pacific Investment Management
Co., which manages more than $1 trillion, in April raised its
holdings of developing-nation bonds to the most since 2008.  “The question remains to what extent can countries with
floating exchange rates and open capital accounts prevent real
appreciation in a world of massive capital flows,” said  Kevin Gallagher , a professor at Boston University who has written
reports on the issue for the United Nations. “The evidence
shows that it can be done, at least in the short term.”  World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said yesterday he sees
tensions arising from currency devaluations as nations seek to
buoy their economies.  Protect the Won  The won dropped 0.7 percent to 1,130.58 per dollar, after
yesterday reaching 1122.30 per dollar, the strongest level since
May 5. The Bank of Korea and the Financial Supervisory Service
audit will ensure banks are following curbs on currency
derivatives that were announced in June and take effect over two
years, starting Oct. 9.  As many as eight banks operating in South Korea, only one
of which is domestic, are in breach of the caps and the value of
contracts is about $5.4 billion more than the level allowed
under the new rules, according to Doh Bo Eun, head of the
foreign-exchange coordination team at the financial regulator.
The won strengthened 5.1 percent in September, the biggest
monthly advance in a year.  “Gains in the won were a bit fast,” Doh, who is involved
in the audit, said in an interview in Seoul today. “We want to
see the market stabilize and the measures are expected to curb
volatility.”  ‘Currency War’  Brazil’s real fell 0.5 percent to 1.6979 per dollar
yesterday, after touching a two-year high of 1.6735 on Oct. 1.
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  warned Sept. 27 of a “currency
war,” saying the government will buy “excess dollars” in the
market to limit the real’s appreciation. The government will
double to 4 percent the tax it charges on foreigners to invest
in the nation’s bonds, first introduced in October 2009.
Foreigners held a record $9.2 billion of local debt in August.  Brazil offers real interest rates of 8 percent to 9 percent,
said Bill Gross, who manages the world’s biggest bond fund at
Newport Beach, California-based Pimco. The won is representative
of “strong emerging-market currencies to stand in contrast to
the U.S. dollar,” he said in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .  Japan Easing  The Bank of Japan today cut its  benchmark rate  to a range
of zero to 0.1 percent, a move Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
described as “comprehensive monetary easing.” It last cut the
target rate to 0.1 percent from 0.3 percent in December 2008.  “This shows a commitment by the Japanese authorities to do
whatever they can at their disposal to not allow the yen to
appreciate anymore and provide liquidity,” said  Nader Naeimi , a
Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages $85 billion.  The yen was little changed at 83.39 per dollar today, 3
percent stronger than its weakest level after the nation
intervened on Sept. 15. Finance Minister Yoshihiko Noda told
reporters in Tokyo today he is prepared to explain to Group of
Seven counterparts Japan’s reasons for intervening.  Yen Intervention  Japan sold 2.12 trillion yen in the month through Sept. 28,
after the yen strengthened to a 15-year high against the dollar,
threatening the nation’s export-led recovery. The central bank
may sell yen again at anytime, said  Joseph Capurso , a foreign-
exchange strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney.  The Taiwan dollar strengthened yesterday beyond NT$31 for
the first time since August 2008, before erasing most of its
gains in late trading because of suspected intervention. The
central bank may have sold NT$20 billion ($642 million) or more
to curb the currency’s rise, the Economic Daily News reported
today, without saying where it got the information.  India’s rupee has appreciated 4.4 percent in the past month,
Asia’s best performance, and central bank Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said today action would be taken if capital flows prove
disruptive. Overseas investors plowed $6.4 billion into the
nation’s shares in September and made net purchases of another
$440 million on Oct. 1, exchange data show.  The Bank of Thailand is still studying measures to help
manage the appreciation of the baht, which reached a 13-year
high of 30.08 per dollar yesterday, Director Wongwatoo Potirat
told reporters in Bangkok today. Policy makers in Indonesia,
Malaysia and the Philippines have also in the past two months
indicated they will intervene to curb volatility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 