-- CWCapital Said to Be in Talks to Buy Ackman Group's Stuyvesant Town Debt
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-10-05T20:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/cwcapital-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-ackman-group-s-stuyvesant-town-debt.html
Senior lenders to Manhattan’s
Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village are in talks with a group
of investors led by  Bill Ackman  to buy its share of junior debt
on the property, people with knowledge of the negotiations said.  CWCapital, the special servicer representing holders of the
$3 billion mortgage on the 80-acre apartment complex, are
considering a purchase of $300 million of mezzanine, or junior,
debt owned by Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP and
 Winthrop Realty Trust , said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private. Pershing and
Winthrop’s joint venture, PSW NYC LLC, bought the debt in August
for $45 million, or 15 cents on the dollar, and is seeking to
sell for at least that price, according to one of the people.  A deal could be reached as early as tomorrow, the people
said. Winthrop Chief Executive Officer  Michael Ashner  declined
to comment, as did Ackman.  Senior lenders, who postponed a foreclosure on the mortgage
planned for yesterday, don’t need to own the mezzanine debt to
take control of the complex. CW’s interest in striking a deal
with Pershing and Winthrop, who were thwarted by a state court
from seizing the property in a foreclosure of their own, may
allow them to preserve the original $3 billion mortgage rather
than extinguishing it in a foreclosure auction, the people said.  Legal Threats  CW also may want to buy the junior debt from Pershing and
Winthrop to prevent any legal threat from the companies or
anyone who might buy their position, said  James E. Schwartz , a
New York-based partner in real estate litigation at Mitchell
Silberberg & Knupp LLP. Ackman’s group filed an appeal after
losing its bid in court to take control of the property itself.  A clean title means every other lien on the complex has
been extinguished, Schwartz said. With Ackman still appealing
his case in court a few months from now, there is always the
risk that he could win, he said.  “The foreclosing mortgagee is thinking this is probably
going to cause all kinds of trouble,” Schwartz said of
CWCapital. “There’s a very small chance that that could happen,
but if it does, watch out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  