-- Czech Exchange Falls Behind Poland After Missing `IPO Train'
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2010-10-06T13:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/czech-stock-exchange-falls-behind-poland-market-after-missing-ipo-train-.html
When Czech solar plant builder  Photon
Energy AS  decided to raise money two years ago in a stock sale,
it bypassed Prague and went to the Warsaw exchange.  Photon isn’t alone. Poland hosted 1.59 billion euros ($2.2
billion) of initial public offerings last year, placing it third
in Europe behind NYSE Euronext and London, according to
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. It has added 117 companies since the
beginning of 2009. Prague hasn’t had an IPO since 2008 as
trading volume dropped 53 percent during the past two years.  “The Prague Stock Exchange is to me an internet cafe where
the same people always trade the same 10 to 15 papers,” said
 Georg Hotar , Photon’s co-owner and chief financial officer, in
an interview last month in Prague. “The market doesn’t fulfill
one of its primary functions, to be a place where companies can
raise capital. In Poland, they can.”  The Warsaw Stock Exchange, where listings on the main
market rose to 385 from 225 in the past decade, will become
emerging Europe’s first publicly traded bourse next month after
the state sells a 64 percent stake. In the same period, the
number of companies traded in Prague dropped to 26 from 151 as
the lack of institutional investors makes it difficult for
companies to raise money.  “Prague really missed the IPO train,” said Peter Domeny,
an analyst at Cyrrus brokerage in Brno, the second-largest Czech
city. “Potential issuers prefer to raise money by going public
anywhere but in the Czech Republic.”  Pension, Savings Rules  The Czech government wants to change the rules on pension
savings to boost investment in domestic equities and Wiener
Boerse AG, owner of the Czech exchange, plans to adopt Deutsche
Boerse AG’s Xetra trading platform in Prague and its other
markets in Budapest and Ljubljana, the Slovenian capital, to
increase trading.  The current system is less friendly for transactions such
as high-frequency trading, said  Petr Koblic , chief executive
officer of the Prague Stock Exchange.  “There are a whole number of Czech companies mentally
prepared to do an IPO, but they are all dealing with the same
problem: is this the right time?” he said in a Sept. 15
interview at his Prague office.  Koblic said understanding the high activity on the Warsaw
stock exchange is “not brain surgery,” given local investment
regulations and state asset sales.  “You have an influx of mandatory investment on one hand
and the state throwing in a bunch of companies on the other,”
he said. “No other bourse in the world gets as dramatic a
support as the Warsaw Stock Exchange.”  Market Value  The new listings have helped triple the value of Polish-
traded  shares  to $189 billion since February 2009. The market is
now bigger than Austria’s at $122 billion and the Philippines’s
at $129 billion. Prague market capitalization is $47 billion.  Prague fell behind Warsaw as the Czech government chose to
sell state-run companies such as carmaker Skoda Auto AS directly
to foreign owners while companies such as lender  Ceska
Sporitelna AS  were delisted. Companies also prefer to get bank
loans than tap the stock market for funds because they would
have to disclose financial information, said analyst  Silvio Kotarac  at KBC Groep NV’s Patria Finance brokerage in Prague.  Poland’s market has been helped by IPOs of state assets and
by laws that force pension funds to invest 95 percent of assets
inside the country. Taxpayers are legally obliged to put a
portion of their social-security taxes into one of 14 private
funds, which jointly managed 201 billion zloty ($71 billion) in
August. Stocks represented 33 percent of their holdings, data on
the financial regulator’s  website  show.  Restrictive Rules  Czech pension funds had just 4.3 percent of their 222.7
billion koruna ($12.5 billion) in stocks as of June, according
to the industry association’s  website . Their hands are tied by
rules that require fund managers to settle any losses with
clients on an annual basis, making equity purchases risky. The
funds are allowed to invest as much as 50 percent of their
assets abroad, compared with a 35 percent limit in Hungary and a
5 percent cap in Poland.  The European Commission, the European Union’s executive
arm, has sued Poland, saying the country’s foreign-investment
limits breach the EU’s rule for free flow of capital. The Polish
state argues its pension funds aren’t subject to EU regulation.
The European Court of Justice hasn’t yet made a ruling.  “It might sound a bit protectionist, but it’s important”
to encourage investment in local stocks, said  Peter Hakansson ,
chairman of Stockholm-based East Capital that manages 4.2
billion euros ($5.8 billion) in emerging-Europe assets. “That
is the key for Poland.”  Fund Savings  Czech Finance Minister  Miroslav Kalousek  has said he will
push legislation next year to increase savings in funds, which
aren’t mandatory now, to reduce pensioners’ dependence on the
public pay-as-you-go system. Any changes must remove the annual-
return protection program to encourage funds to buy more stocks,
said Koblic, the Prague Stock Exchange’s CEO.  “Pension reform is one of the most crucial things,” said
Koblic. “There is definitely a lack of domestic institutional
investment in the Czech Republic.”  Prague may get its first share sale in two years as betting
company  Fortuna Entertainment Group NV  plans to list in the
Czech capital and Warsaw before the end of 2010. Penta
Investments Ltd., which owns Fortuna, may sell shares next year
in its grocery chain Zabka Polska SA on the two markets.  NewConnect Market  Warsaw has also been helped by its  NewConnect  market, which
features easier listing procedures and looser disclosure rules,
luring smaller companies and startups from around the region. It
has added 61 stocks this year for a total of 166. Its total
capitalization is $1.5 billion, according to the operator’s
website, on par with all shares traded in Iceland or Latvia.  Photon, which joined  NewConnect  before starting business to
raise most of its current capital, plans to move its shares to
the main Warsaw exchange by the end of this year where it may
raise additional funds for expansion, CFO Hotar said. The
Prague-based company has no plans to list on its home market.  “NewConnect is to some extent part of our company’s DNA,”
said Hotar. “The idea that successful companies can graduate to
the main market is very attractive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  