-- David Beckham Won't Be Loaned to European Team Again, L.A. Galaxy CEO Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-05T11:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/david-beckham-won-t-be-loaned-to-european-team-again-l-a-galaxy-ceo-says.html
Los Angeles Galaxy midfielder  David Beckham  won’t be loaned out again by the Major League Soccer
team, the club’s chief executive officer said.  The 35-year-old former Manchester United and Real Madrid
player has twice joined Italy’s AC Milan on loan since moving to
the U.S. in 2007. England coach  Fabio Capello  demanded he play
in Europe to be considered for the national team.  “We’re not going to loan David Beckham to anybody and he’s
not going anywhere,” Galaxy CEO  Tim Leiweke  said in an
interview in London today.  Sections of the Galaxy crowd jeered Beckham, the league’s
highest-paid player, last year after he returned following time
away in Italy. He missed out on playing at a fourth  World Cup 
this year after tearing his Achilles tendon three months before
the tournament.  “The only reason we ever lent David out, and the only
reason we supported him, was because it was critical for him
leading up to the World Cup,” Leiweke said. “That’s what the
coach wanted and we respected David. But we paid an enormous
price for that. I took an enormous amount of heat from our fans
and I would prefer not do through that again next year.”  England suffered its worst-ever World Cup defeat when it
went down 4-1 to Germany in the round of 16 in South Africa.
That failure prompted Capello to say the team needed refreshing
and Beckham would no longer be considered for competitive
matches. Beckham, who captained England at the 2002 and 2006
World Cups, said he hasn’t given up on playing for his country
again. He’s appeared 115 times for the nation, a record for a
non-goalkeeper.  Beckham scored the winning goal as the Galaxy went top of
the MLS Western Conference two days ago with a 2-1 win over
Chivas USA.  “I think (Capello) is making a mistake,” Leiweke said.
“Don’t underestimate David Beckham. As he showed again the
other night the man has a lot of soccer left in him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  