-- Debt Rules as Diamond Ascent Sees Kengeter Converge With Jain
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2010-10-05T00:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/debt-rules-as-diamond-ascent-sees-kengeter-converge-with-jain.html
Carsten Kengeter ’s appointment as
head of investment banking at  UBS AG , Switzerland’s largest
lender, is one more sign that on Wall Street debt is king.  Kengeter, 43, who was head of fixed-income trading at the
Zurich-based bank, joins  Deutsche Bank AG ’s  Anshu Jain , HSBC
Holdings Plc’s  Stuart Gulliver  and Barclays Plc’s  Robert Diamond 
as executives with debt-trading backgrounds who have won recent
promotions even after a global credit crisis that centered on
fixed-income products such as mortgages, collateralized debt
obligations and credit-default swaps.  “At first sight, it is quite surprising because the groups
that lost all the money were primarily in fixed income,” said
 Philip Keevil , a senior partner at investment bank Compass
Advisers LLP in New York and a former head of Citigroup Inc.’s
European mergers team. “But the people who get the top jobs
ultimately come from the divisions currently making the money.”  Fixed-income markets are once again the biggest revenue
drivers at the world’s 10 largest banks after the credit crunch
cost financial companies worldwide $1.8 trillion in losses,
forcing government bailouts from Dublin to Washington. The
buying and selling of bonds, currencies and commodities
accounted for more than half of total investment banking revenue
in 2009 and in the first half of this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  UBS, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank and  Barclays  and HSBC of
London reported more than $24 billion in revenue from that area
in the first six months of the year. That compares with almost
$20 billion in losses in 2008, after a record deficit at the
Swiss bank.  Return to Profit  UBS chose Kengeter, a former co-head of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s securities business in Asia, as sole head of its
investment bank on Sept. 28. The move emphasized expertise in
fixed-income markets, a business that helped UBS return to
profit in the first half and that Kengeter previously ran.  Deutsche Bank’s Jain, 47, who helped build Germany’s
biggest bank into a debt powerhouse, took over as sole head of
the corporate and investment bank in July. His debt-sales and
trading unit generated 52 percent of total revenue at the
corporate and investment bank in the first six months of the
year, helping the firm report its highest first-half profit
since 2007.  Diamond, 59, who joined Barclays’s investment bank in 1996
to oversee its fixed-income business, was named chief executive
officer in September. He led the bank’s purchase of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s U.S. operations in 2008 and boosted the
investment banking unit’s revenue to 11.6 billion pounds ($18.4
billion) last year, up from 5.2 billion pounds in 2008.  Gulliver’s Rise  Gulliver, 51, who gained experience with credit, currencies
and rate products while running the bank’s treasury in Hong
Kong, was named CEO on Sept. 24, after revenue at his global
corporate, investment banking and markets unit almost doubled to
$21.9 billion last year from 2005, making it HSBC’s fastest-
growing division.  In each case, the promotions involved bypassing other
executives whose backgrounds were in areas such as corporate
finance or retail banking. Kengeter won the top job as co-head
 Alexander Wilmot-Sitwell , 49, who had overseen merger advisory
and underwriting, was moved to help lead Asia, and Jain gained
his position when co-head  Michael Cohrs , 53, who had run merger
advice and equity underwriting, opted to retire. Gulliver and
Diamond were both promoted over executives with experience
managing consumer-banking divisions.  ‘Redeemed Themselves’  “The big rebound in business came in fixed income, fueled
by low interest rates, wide spreads and quantitative easing,”
said  Simon Maughan , an analyst at MF Global in London. “Any
bond guys who had dug in during the crisis had a spectacular
2009 and redeemed themselves in the eyes of peers.”  The only big Wall Street investment bank whose recent
management changes went in a different direction is New York-
based  Morgan Stanley , which chose a CEO,  James P. Gorman , with a
brokerage and asset-management background. Gorman, 52, who took
over in January, previously ran Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.  Goldman Sachs , the most profitable securities firm in Wall
Street history, is still managed by CEO  Lloyd Blankfein  and
President  Gary Cohn , who come from the fixed-income and
commodity-sales and trading divisions. Both men have been in
their positions since 2006.  Fixed-income hasn’t always been the dominant business for
Wall Street banks. In 2000, Goldman Sachs derived 18 percent of
revenue from trading fixed-income, currencies and commodities,
or FICC, and 32 percent from takeover advice and underwriting.
Last year, by contrast, FICC supplied 52 percent of revenue,
while advice and underwriting made up 11 percent.  UBS Rescue  Deutsche Bank, Barclays and HSBC all have in common that
they didn’t require government money during the financial
crisis, even as they wrote down billions of euros, pounds and
dollars on debt products. UBS was rescued from near collapse in
2008 by the government and Swiss National Bank after it piled up
$44.2 billion of writedowns and credit losses, at the time the
most of any European lender from the global credit crisis.  The Swiss bank hired former Credit Suisse Group AG CEO
 Oswald Gruebel  in February 2009 out of retirement to revive UBS.
Gruebel, 66, a former Eurobond trader, hired more than 850
people to rebuild the bank’s debt and equity units and boosted
capital and tried to stop outflows from the wealth business.  “Anyone who’s survived the financial crisis has gathered a
lot of experience that’ll be needed in the coming years,” said
 Konrad Becker , a Munich-based analyst at Merck Finck & Co.
“Banks aren’t going to return to their riskier pre-crisis
business model just because these guys are coming out of fixed
income. It’s no longer affordable under new regulation.”  Capital Rules  Regulators have been tightening capital rules and
introducing new measures such as liquidity requirements after
coming under political pressure to rein in banks’ risk-taking
amid taxpayer bailouts. The  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  in September reached an agreement for rules that
more than double capital requirements.  Steps by governments and central banks to stabilize the
financial industry have failed to stop the spread of the crisis
to public debt. European leaders set up a 750 billion-euro
($1.03 trillion) financial lifeline in May to backstop the
region as the fallout from Greece’s near default raised concerns
of contagion. Ireland is trying to stave off financial ruin by
rescuing its banks, measures that may cost the country as much
as 50 billion euros, the government said on Sept. 30.  Next Brady Bond  “The recovery of this whole process, which is only partly
accomplished so far, is going to depend on some extraordinary
new fixed-income developments,” said  Roy Smith , a former
Goldman Sachs partner who’s now a finance professor at New York
University’s Stern School of Business. “Somebody’s going to
have to come up with the next Brady Bond plan for Greece and
Ireland” for instance, he said. Brady Bonds are named after
former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Nicholas Brady , who sponsored the
effort to restructure emerging-market debt instruments.  Kengeter, named head of UBS’s debt business in September
2008, helped rebuild the unit following the bank’s losses.  Jain, who took over debt sales at Deutsche Bank after his
mentor  Edson Mitchell  died in a plane crash at the end of 2000,
more than doubled the division’s revenue by 2009. After the
investment bank reported a record loss in 2008, he  cut  assets at
the trading unit by 47 percent, reduced jobs by 25 percent and
scaled back proprietary trading. The division returned to profit
in 2009 and generated 78 percent of the bank’s pretax earnings
in the first half of this year. Jain is considered a candidate
to succeed CEO  Josef Ackermann .  U.S. Banks  Diamond, an American, rose up through fixed-income trading
ranks at Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse First Boston before
leading Barclays’s investment banking expansion. He was beaten
to the CEO job by  John Varley  in 2003 and became president of
the bank in 2005.  Gulliver worked his way up at HSBC over 30 years from
treasury department roles in London and Asia, where he learned
to manage funding, liquidity and interest-rate holdings. That
training in risk helped him steer HSBC’s traders through the
Asian financial crisis of the 1990s and allowed the securities
unit he oversees to survive the subprime bubble with smaller
losses than competitors, including Barclays Capital.  Executives with fixed-income trading backgrounds haven’t
been rewarded at U.S. banks to the same degree they have been at
U.K. and European banks. That may be partly because management
changes at U.S. banks occurred nearer to the credit crisis.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  ousted  William “Bill” Winters , who
had a background in fixed-income derivatives, from his role as
co-CEO of the investment bank in September 2009 and replaced him
with  James “Jes” Staley , who worked in equity capital markets
before running JPMorgan’s private bank and asset management
units.  Moynihan, Pandit  Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. bank by assets,
tapped  Brian Moynihan , 50, a former lawyer who was running its
consumer-banking division, as its new CEO in December 2009.
Citigroup CEO  Vikram Pandit , 53, who won his job just as the
credit crisis was gaining steam in 2007, has a background
running equity trading at Morgan Stanley.  Morgan Stanley, which was the second-biggest U.S.
securities firm before converting to a bank in September 2008,
has done the most to deemphasize fixed-income trading as it
shifted to a focus on providing financial advice to individuals.  John Mack , 65, who ratcheted up trading and risk-taking at
Morgan Stanley when he re-joined the firm as chairman and CEO in
2005, turned over the CEO role to Gorman at the end of 2009.
Gorman has never run a fixed-income trading floor.  Still, until instituting a hiring freeze in September,
Gorman stuck to the firm’s plan to try to rebuild its sales and
trading desk by hiring about 400 people.  Retail Banking  The promotions of Jain and Diamond at Deutsche Bank and
Barclays come as both firms are trying to cut their dependence
on investment banking, which generated more than three-quarters
of profits in the first half. Diamond has pledged to boost the
British bank’s consumer unit, while Deutsche Bank CEO Ackermann,
an investment banker, is buying Deutsche Postbank AG to bolster
retail banking.  Smith, the NYU professor and former Goldman Sachs partner,
doesn’t think changing direction will be easy.  “You cannot underestimate the desire and the willingness
of these firms to continue to do in the future what they did in
the past,” Smith said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 