-- Defense Secretary Gates May Meet Chinese Counterpart in Hanoi, U.S. Says
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-10-05T20:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/defense-secretary-gates-may-meet-chinese-counterpart-in-hanoi-u-s-says.html
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  may
meet directly with his Chinese counterpart in Hanoi during a
gathering next week of Asian defense chiefs, a Pentagon
spokesman said.  The U.S. and Chinese governments are trying to arrange the
talks between Gates and Chinese Defense Minister General  Liang Guanglie , Defense Department spokesman  Geoff Morrell  told
reporters today. Talks would coincide with resumed maritime
consultations between the two sides, also scheduled next week in
Hawaii, and plans for broader defense talks in Washington later
in the year.  “This is sort of the resuming of the military-to-military
relationship with China,” Morrell said. “I think you’ll see
the first substance next week.”  The bilateral talks in Hanoi would mark the first time
Gates has met with a Chinese defense leader in almost a year and
probably would be followed by a Gates trip to Beijing, possibly
in early 2011, Morrell said.  China put military relations on ice and rescinded an
invitation to Gates earlier this year over a planned U.S.
weapons sale to Taiwan. Military ties between the U.S. and China
have faltered even as President  Barack Obama  seeks better
relations on a range of issues including trade, climate change
and defense.  State Visit  Obama is preparing to host Chinese President  Hu Jintao  for
a state visit in Washington, possibly in January.  Gates departs on Oct. 9 for Hanoi, where he and Liang are
scheduled to attend a joint meeting next week of defense
ministers in the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  that
will also include their counterparts from the U.S., China,
Australia, New Zealand, India, Japan, South Korea and Russia.  The meeting aims to establish a regional security forum,
Morrell said.  “A more regular exchange of views will help build trust
and transparency in the region, which will be important as
nations there continue to develop new, more advanced military
capabilities,” Morrell said.  The U.S. has expressed concern for years over China’s
military buildup and also has struck defense deals with India
and expanded ties with Vietnam. Japan and Korea are the primary
allies for the U.S. in the region, linked by security treaties.  Gates last met directly with a top Chinese defense
official, General  Xu Caihou , the vice chairman of the Central
Military Commission, at the Pentagon in October 2009.  Liang would be among the few defense ministers to meet
formally and directly with Gates alongside the Hanoi conference.  “Both sides clearly wish to have such a meeting, so we are
working right now on the logistics of doing so,” Morrell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  