-- Danish CEOs Say Euro Adoption May Take Five More Years
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2010-10-06T11:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/denmark-s-top-executives-say-euro-adoption-will-take-at-least-five-years.html
Chief executive officers at three of
Denmark’s biggest financial companies said the Nordic country
may stay outside the euro for at least the next five years as
the debt crisis puts voters off the single currency bloc.  “It’s relatively natural that there’s some reluctance
toward the euro at a time when we’ve seen turmoil with countries
in the euro area having very, very high debt levels,” said
 Peter Straarup , CEO of Danske Bank A/S, Denmark’s biggest lender,
during a Sept. 30 interview in Copenhagen.  The euro dropped 21 percent against the dollar from last
November’s peak to the lows in June as investors bet record
deficits run up by so-called peripheral nations such as Greece
might fracture the region’s monetary union. European Union
leaders are struggling to design better controls to prevent a
repeat after the euro went through the most severe test since
its 1999 creation.  Support for euro membership has been dwindling among Danish
voters. A Sept. 22 poll commissioned by  Danske Bank  showed
backing for the euro was 46.6 percent last month, while 51.7
percent of those surveyed want to keep the krone. That compares
with 53.4 percent for the euro two years ago after the central
bank raised interest rates to an eight-year high to defend the
krone, which is pegged to Europe’s single currency.  The euro slipped 0.2 percent against the dollar at 1:08 p.m.
in Frankfurt, after trading 0.3 percent higher earlier in the
day. Fitch Ratings lowered Ireland’s credit grade one level to
A+ from AA-, with a negative outlook, it said today. Straarup,
who led his bank’s 2005 acquisition of National Irish Bank, said
loan losses in the country probably peaked in the second quarter.  ‘We Have Suffered’  Straarup and  Stine Bosse , CEO of Tryg A/S, the country’s
biggest non-life insurer, said joining the monetary union would
help their companies and Denmark’s economy. Staying outside the
euro “damages” Denmark’s interests, Prime Minister  Lars Loekke Rasmussen  told lawmakers yesterday.  “If you ask politicians, central bankers and business
people, everybody knows that we have suffered from not being a
full member,” Bosse said in a Sept. 29 interview in Ballerup,
Denmark. It will take at least five, possibly 10 years, before
the country can join the euro because the government missed a
window in 2008 when voter support for the currency switch was
high, she said.  “If we don’t use the situation at a time when people can
see things are difficult for Denmark outside the euro, then I
don’t know when we will have the opportunity,” she said.  Narrowest Spread  The government has backed away from its promise to hold a
referendum by next year. A vote won’t be held until Denmark
meets the EU’s fiscal rules, Rasmussen has said.  The budget deficit will reach 4.6 percent of gross domestic
product this year, breaching the EU’s 3 percent threshold, after
the government deployed $10 billion in stimulus funds to pull
the country out of its worst recession since World War II, the
Finance Ministry said Aug. 24.  Denmark, rated AAA at Fitch, Moody’s Investors Service and
Standard & Poor’s, will comply with the bloc’s fiscal rules by
2013 at the latest, Rasmussen said. The euro area’s average
deficit will reach 6.6 percent of GDP this year, the European
Commission said in May.  The yield spread on Denmark’s 10-year government bonds
relative to German bunds is smaller than for any euro member,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Danish 10-year
benchmark debt yielded 2.34 percent today, compared with 2.24
percent for German benchmark debt.  Acquisitions  Denmark’s three-month interbank deposit rates jumped as
high as 0.9 percent today, the highest since March 22, and were
trading at 0.81 percent at 1 p.m. The yield on the benchmark
six-year bond rose 3 basis points to 2.73 percent.  “It will take quite a number of years before Denmark’s
euro membership again becomes a headline,” Straarup said.  That may hamper corporate expansion, according to Bosse.  “If we have the ambition that Danish financial companies
should be consolidators, the euro is crucial,” Bosse said.  Tryg is targeting acquisitions in the northernmost euro
member Finland, as well as in Sweden and possibly also in Poland
and the Baltic states, she said.  Christian Sagild , CEO of insurer  Topdanmark A/S , said his
company wouldn’t benefit from a currency switch. The firm only
does business inside Denmark.  Denmark’s krone may even have helped the economy avoid the
fallout of Europe’s debt crisis, Sagild said in an Oct. 1
interview in Ballerup. It is “unlikely” that Danes will join
the euro within five years, he said.  “Unless you have a reporting system that works and that
allows you to react to the developments in the different
countries, then I think the common currency is more of a risk
than an opportunity,” he said.  The central bank raised its benchmark interest rate to an
eight-year high of 5.5 percent in October 2008 to protect the
krone from a sell-off as investors shunned smaller markets. It
has since cut the rate to a record low 1.05 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Wienberg  in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  