-- Deutsche Bank Sells Portugal-Linked Note That Pays Third Less Than Swaps
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-10-05T08:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/deutsche-bank-sells-portugal-linked-note-that-pays-third-less-than-swaps.html
Deutsche Bank AG  issued $5 million of
credit-linked notes on Portuguese debt that pay a third less
than the money investors receive for insuring the government’s
bonds against default.  The five-year notes use income from credit-default swaps to
pay a coupon of 275 basis points more than the three-month
London interbank offered  rate , or Libor, for a minimum of six
months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with the
412 basis-point rate on Portuguese default swaps, according to
data provider CMA. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Credit-linked notes typically pay a premium relative to the
debt they reference as compensation for the risk of the issuer
defaulting. Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg issued notes tied to
Deutsche Bank’s debt with a 2.25 percent coupon, more than the
98.1 basis-point cost of the bank’s swaps. Italy’s UniCredit SpA
sold notes referencing French government bonds that pay 3.15
percent, compared with 79.2 basis points on the debt contracts.  “The 275 basis-point coupon seems low,” said  Miguel Pardo , a trader involved in structuring credit-linked notes at
Banco Santander SA in Madrid. “If I had to price this it would
be at least Libor plus 450 basis points.”  Stacey Coglan , a London-based Deutsche Bank spokeswoman,
couldn’t immediately comment on the transaction.  CDS Record  Portugal’s credit-default swaps surged to a record 466.5
basis points Sept. 29 on concern the nation will struggle to
reduce its budget deficit. A basis point on a contract
protecting 10 million euros ($13.7 million) of debt from default
is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Deutsche Bank’s notes allow it to change the floating rate
to a permanent 5 percent fixed payment after the first six
months and then at subsequent half-yearly intervals. Investors
in credit-linked notes can lose all their money if the reference
entity defaults.  The combination of credit-default swaps, the cost of
funding and Deutsche Bank’s option to change payments makes it
difficult to analyze the risk of notes, said  Thomas Maurer , a
fixed-income trader and structurer at Bank Julius Baer & Co.  “You cannot quantify how much this is worth,” Maurer
said. “First you saw Greece then Spain and now attention has
switched to Portugal.”  Deutsche Bank’s notes offer a lower coupon than credit-
linked notes issued on the debt of other so-called peripheral
euro-region countries such as Greece and Italy. Markets were
roiled this year on concerns about the creditworthiness of the
region’s most indebted countries.  Natixis SA sold 10 million euros of five-year notes linked
to credit-default swaps on Italy which pay a fixed coupon of
4.25 percent. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc sold 3.5 million
euros of notes on Greece in August paying 7.6 percent.  Deutsche Bank issued four of the seven credit-linked switch
notes this year, Bloomberg data show. Three-month Libor, an
average of rates set daily by banks and used as a borrowing
benchmark, was 0.29 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  