-- Dollar Trades Near Eight-Month Low Against the Euro on Fed Policy Outlook
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i
-- 2010-10-06T11:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/dollar-is-near-three-week-low-versus-yen-on-speculation-fed-to-ease-more.html
The dollar touched an eight-month low
versus the euro on speculation the Federal Reserve will join the
Bank of Japan in increasing purchases of government debt to
sustain an economic recovery.  The  Dollar Index  fell to levels last seen in January before
reports this week forecast to show applications for U.S.
unemployment benefits rose and the  jobless rate  climbed. The yen
strengthened past 83 per dollar for a second day, moving close
to the lowest since the BOJ intervened to weaken its currency
last month, while the Australian dollar rose to a two-year high.
The euro dipped after Fitch Ratings downgraded Ireland’s credit,
before recovering most of the drop.  “The prospect of a further intensification of the Fed’s
ultra-expansionary monetary policy is putting long-term pressure
on the dollar,” strategists at Commerzbank AG headed by  Ulrich Leuchtmann  in Frankfurt wrote in a report today. “The result is
particularly striking for euro-dollar, because it is relatively
certain that the European Central Bank will continue to realize
that a strong euro is in Europe’s interest.”  The dollar traded at $1.3819 against the 16-nation single
currency as of 7:15 a.m. in New York, up 0.1 percent from
$1.3839 in New York yesterday. The greenback earlier reached
$1.3881 per euro, the weakest level since Feb. 4.  The dollar bought 83.08 yen from 83.22. It touched 82.97
yen earlier today. The currency yesterday reached 82.96 yen, the
lowest since Sept. 15, when Japan intervened in foreign-exchange
markets for the first time since 2004. The euro fetched 115.06
yen from 115.16 yen.  The Australian dollar gained 0.4 percent to 97.55 U.S.
cents. It touched 97.81 U.S. cents earlier today, the most since
July 22, 2008.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, reached 77.57 today, the lowest since Jan. 20.  U.S. initial  jobless claims  increased by 2,000 to 455,000
in the week ended Oct. 2, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of economists ahead of tomorrow’s data. The unemployment rate
climbed to 9.7 percent in September from 9.6 percent in August,
according to a separate survey ahead of the Oct. 8 report.  Japan’s decision yesterday to buy $60 billion of assets and
cut its benchmark interest rate to stimulate growth bolstered
expectations the Fed will follow suit and boost Treasury
purchases. The Bank of Japan lowered its key rate to a range of
zero to 0.1 percent from the previous 0.1 percent target.  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said on Oct. 1 that
the central bank has the “tools that can provide additional
stimulus at costs that do not appear to be prohibitive.”  Easing Outlook  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Oct. 4 that the
central bank aided the U.S. economy through its $1.75 trillion
purchases of mortgage debt and Treasuries that ended in March
2010 and that more buying would help further.  “The Fed is still likely to pump billions of dollars into
the system,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. “All that liquidity has to
find a place. Some of that will stay in the U.S., and some of
that will inevitably try to find a better yield somewhere.”  South Korea’s won reached a five-month high on prospects
the Asian nation’s yield advantage over U.S. assets will widen.  The won was 1.1 percent stronger at 1,118.13 per dollar,
having earlier touched a five-month high of 1,117.65. The
currency gained more than 9 percent over the past three months,
Asia’s best performer.  The MSCI World  Index  rose for a second day after the
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials increased 1.6
percent yesterday. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional
shares added 1.5 percent today.  Irish Downgrade  Gains in the euro were tempered amid speculation its recent
advance was too rapid. The currency’s 14-day stochastic
oscillator against the dollar stood at 96, above the 80
threshold that indicates it may be poised to weaken.  “Given the rapid rise of late, I feel uncomfortable to
hold this currency, especially at these levels,” said  Shinichi Hayashi , a dealer in Tokyo at Shinkin Central Bank, the central
institution for Japan’s financial cooperatives.  The euro slipped after Fitch said it cut Ireland’s long-
term credit ratings to A+ from AA-, and may downgrade the nation
further. The ratings company cited the “exceptional” costs the
nation is incurring to recapitalize its banks.  The euro may fall against the dollar if a deal is reached
at the International Monetary Fund’s meeting in Washington this
weekend to allow Asian currencies to rise against the greenback,
according to BNP Paribas SA.  Weakness ‘Re-Channeled’  “Should there be a deal in Washington suggesting Asian
currencies to appreciate at a faster pace up to their fair
values, dollar weakness would be ‘re-channeled’ away from
European currencies,” strategists led by  Hans-Guenter Redeker 
in London, wrote in a research report today.  The yen was close to a three-week high on speculation that
Japan will refrain from intervening in the foreign-exchange
markets before this week’s meeting of finance ministers and
central bankers from the Group of Seven industrialized nations.  Measures to weaken currencies and loosen monetary policy in
recent weeks have been taken from Japan to Brazil, whose Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  warned Sept. 27 of a “currency war.”
The Bank of England will decide tomorrow whether to resume asset
purchases to boost private lending. Canadian Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty , who will chair the G-7 meeting, said last week
that “currency issues are major issues.”  “This weekend’s G-7 meeting may make it difficult for
intervention by the Japanese authorities,” said  Tohru Sasaki ,
head of Japan rates and foreign-exchange research at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Tokyo. “Even if intervention were to occur, the
intervention is highly likely to be small-sized and short-lived.
Any impact on the yen will probably be limited.”  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said using currencies as a “policy weapon” would
pose a “very serious risk” to the global recovery, according
to an interview with the Financial Times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  