-- Downtown Manhattan Office Vacancy Rate Hits a Six-Year High as Firms Move
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-10-05T18:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/downtown-manhattan-office-vacancy-rate-jumps-to-6-year-high-cushman-says.html
Downtown Manhattan’s office  vacancy
rate  jumped in the third quarter to the highest level since 2004
as new space came on the market from financial companies,
according to brokerage Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  The vacancy rate climbed to 12.1 percent from 9.9 percent a
year earlier, Cushman, the biggest closely held commercial
property broker, said today in a statement. It was also 9.9
percent in the second quarter. Rents declined to $39.08 a square
foot from $42.01 in the third quarter of 2009.  The increased vacancies followed the addition of space at
85 Broad St., 1 New York Plaza and 70 Pine St., Cushman said.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  had offices at 85 Broad and 1 New York
Plaza before moving into a new headquarters at 200 West St. The
70 Pine St. tower was formerly home to insurer American
International Group Inc., which sold it last year.  The rate increase “is reflecting the three additions,”
 Joseph Harbert , Cushman’s chief operating officer for the New
York region, said at a press briefing. The vacancy increase is
resulting in “some really good values  downtown ,” he said.  The overall Manhattan office market has seen am uptick in
real estate demand as companies emerge from the freeze in
decision-making that followed the 2008 credit meltdown, Harbert
said. Leasing is up 66 percent for the nine months ended Sept.
30 with 18.8 million square feet of deals -- more than in all of
2009, according to New York-based Cushman.  Rents Decline  Manhattan’s overall office  vacancy rate  was 10.9 percent in
the third quarter, compared with 11.1 percent a year earlier and
10.8 percent in the previous three months. Rents dropped for the
eighth straight quarter to $53.80 a square foot from $54.31 in
the second quarter and $57.08 a year earlier.  Some tenants are trying to lock in long-term leases during
what is perceived as a market bottom, said Dale Schlather, a
Cushman leasing broker based in Midtown.  “There’s a lot of fear about politics and the government,
taxes, what’s going to happen in the future,” he said. “We’re
actually in a unique time, where it’s a great time to be a
tenant, and there’s enough fear on the landlord’s side where you
can make future deals.”  Manhattan’s net-effective rents -- the price at which deals
are being done -- are down 39 percent from their peak in the
first quarter of 2008, according to Cushman, even as asking
rents, or the rates landlords are advertising, are down 20
percent.  Midtown Rates  In Midtown, effective rents are down 42 percent, double the
decline in asking rents, and downtown effective rents slid 30
percent while asking rents fell 22 percent. In Midtown South,
the area between 30th and Canal streets, the declines were 36
percent for effective rents and 9.6 percent for asking rents.  Cushman Vice Chairman  Josh Kuriloff  said he expects a
“spike” in New York office rents in the next 24 to 36 months,
as office-using  job growth  continues and new office building
construction remains near historic lows, creating “a huge
constraint on supply.”  “The psychology is very different from what the statistics
are demonstrating,” Kuriloff said. “We are anticipating a lot
of demand. That’s what the investor market is anticipating.
That’s how buildings are being purchased.”  Downtown brokers said they are seeing high demand for the
space vacated by Goldman and AIG. The rise in vacancies isn’t
hurting demand for new offices being built at the World Trade
Center or the space Bank of America may give up when its 4.6
million-square-foot Merrill Lynch lease expires at Brookfield
Office Properties’ World Financial Center in 2013, they said.  “Buildings that are early and late postwar will continue
to be low-cost alternatives for companies that can’t afford
Midtown,” said Andrew Peretz, a leasing broker based in lower
Manhattan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  