-- Drooping Paintings, Voice in a Room Vie for Turner Prize: Review
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2010-10-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/drooping-paintings-voice-in-a-room-rival-for-turner-prize-martin-gayford.html
Judging the Turner Prize is often
more like assessing the relative merits of, say, a piece of
plumbing equipment and a gerbil. Where do you start?  The four artists on the short list for the award -- worth
25,000 pounds ($39,677) to the winner and 5,000 pounds each to
the three runners-up -- tend to have less in common than that.  This year, admittedly, two of the four, Dexter Dalwood and
Angela de la Cruz, are exhibiting paintings, sort of, in the
exhibition at  Tate Britain  that accompanies the prize. Of the
other two, Susan Philipsz is showing an empty room full of
sound. The Otolith Group has mounted a video installation
involving the simultaneous performance of all 13 parts of a 21-
year-old French television series on Greek civilization.  It’s no easy task that the jury, who selected the short
list, has set itself. The only way to approach it is on gut
feeling. What makes the most impact?  I’m prejudiced in favor of painting. But of the two
exponents of paint on canvas, one -- Angela de la Cruz -- has
done something guaranteed to rob the medium of its power. She
breaks or removes the wooden stretchers that keep the canvas
taut and flat.  Consequently, her pictures droop like the wings of an
enormous bird or lie crumpled on the ground like something
destined for a skip. The booklet published by Tate suggests
she’s attempting to find an answer to the question, “When is a
painting not a painting?” It’s an interesting puzzle, though my
reaction was that she had discovered the solution.  Moroccan Fantasy  Dexter Dalwood’s pictures are more orthodox. They are even
figurative. His method is to evoke a historical moment by mixing
together all manner of visual ingredients. “Burroughs in
Tangiers” (2005) is a fantasy about the room that the writer
 William Burroughs  occupied in Morocco in the 1950s. But it is
pieced together from relevant oddments of art (for example, the
bedspread comes from a painting by  Matisse , “The Moroccans”).  When it works, Dalwood’s method produces witty art-
historical fantasias. There’s something troubling about his
pictures. Though consisting of paint on canvas, they often look
like pasted paper, with sharp edges and no feeling of space.  That feeling of slight visual unease was replaced by utter
bafflement when I moved into the room of the Otolith Group (a
collective consisting of two artists, Kodwo Eshun and Anjalika
Sagar, taking its name from part of the inner ear).  Alien in Bengal  They screen a film based loosely on an unrealized film
script dating from 1967 about a visit by an extraterrestrial
alien to Bengal. This is hard to comprehend. Even more elusive
is the point of replaying the 13-part French TV series,
mentioned above, all at the same time in an art gallery.  Mind you, I have similar doubts about the viability of
using sound as a medium of sculpture. In principle, I find this
dubious. In practice, Susan Philipsz’s piece, “Lowlands”
(2008-10) struck me as beautiful. It consists of her
unaccompanied voice singing a 16th-century Scottish lament on
three separate channels, played by three loudspeakers in
different parts of an empty room. While it’s hard to say what’s
so good about this, the result is simple and delightful.  I think this Turner Prize is between Dalwood and Philipsz,
and on gut feeling I’d give it to the latter.  The Turner Prize Exhibition is at Tate Britain through Jan.
3, 2011. The winner will be announced on Dec. 6.  Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk .  ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent book is “Man
With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by Lucian Freud.”
The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 