-- Ecopetrol Plans First Colombia Bond Sale Since 1998, Chief Gutierrez Says
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2010-10-05T14:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/ecopetrol-plans-first-colombia-bond-sale-since-1998-chief-gutierrez-says.html
Ecopetrol SA  will probably tap local
debt markets for the first time in more than a decade to help
fund record investments amid rising oil demand in China, Chief
Executive Officer  Javier Gutierrez  said.  Colombia’s state-controlled oil producer may raise $500
million in a sale of peso-denominated  bonds  in the fourth
quarter, Gutierrez, 59, said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg’s offices in New York. Ecopetrol may issue more debt
next year, he said.  “The idea is to have a completely diversified portfolio,”
Gutierrez said.  Ecopetrol is selling local debt for the first time since
1998 as its planned 2011 investments are set to top this year’s
record $6.9 billion in spending, he said. Bogota-based Ecopetrol
is forging ahead with plans to  invest  more than $80 billion
through 2020 to finance exploration projects in Colombia and
expansion in neighboring Peru and Brazil, Gutierrez said.  In addition to exploring for oil in Brazil, the company
also is looking for ways to take advantage of rising demand for
heavy crude from refineries in China, he said.  Brazil has “big, big potential,” Gutierrez said, adding
that Ecopetrol is “interested in acquiring new positions.”  Colombia is eyeing markets in Asia for its oil, coal and
emeralds as accelerating economic growth stokes demand. BHP
Billiton Plc, Anglo American Plc and Xstrata Plc shipped coal
10,000 miles (16,000 kilometers) to China from their Cerrejon
mine in northern Colombia for the first time this year,
Cerrejon’s Chief Executive Officer Leon Teicher said in March.  Port, Pipeline Projects  On the nation’s Caribbean coast, Ecopetrol is increasing
capacity at its Covenas port to supply large tankers bound for
Asia, which accounted for about 20 percent of fuel sales last
year, Gutierrez said. The company also is studying whether to
develop a pipeline and port on the Pacific coast.  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark 11 percent bond due 2020
slid 2.4 basis points, or 0.024 percentage point, to 7.355
percent at 9:19 a.m. in Bogota, according to Colombia’s stock
exchange. The price rose 0.183 centavo on the peso to 124.773
centavos.  Moody’s Investors Service, which rates Colombia’s foreign
debt Ba1, or one level below investment grade, raised the
country’s credit rating outlook last month to positive from
stable. Moody’s rates Ecopetrol’s  debt  Baa2, the second-lowest
investment grade rating.  Possible Stake Sale  Ecopetrol may sell a 9.9 percent stake in 2011 or 2012,
Gutierrez said yesterday in a presentation at the New York Stock
Exchange. The stake would be worth about 14.95 trillion pesos
($8.3 billion), based on yesterday’s closing price. Ecopetrol
raised about $2.7 billion in an initial offering in 2007, when
the company sold a 10.1 percent stake.  Ecopetrol may seek to tap into rising demand for Latin
American oil stocks after Petroleo Brasileiro SA, or Petrobras,
raised about $70 billion last month in the world’s largest
offering. Repsol YPF SA said Oct. 1 that China Petrochemical
Corp. will invest $7.1 billion in its Brazilian unit, while
billionaire  Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
has said it also aims to sell a slice of its assets.  Rising output at Ecopetrol has made Colombia the third-
largest crude producer in South America, behind Venezuela and
Brazil. Ecopetrol aims to boost output to 1 million barrels a
day by 2015 and 1.3 million barrels in 2020. The company pumped
593,900 barrels a day in the second quarter.  ‘Risk’  To reach that goal, the company will have to uncover
reserves in areas including offshore fields, where it will be
venturing for the first time, said Daniel Munoz, an analyst at
Bogota-based brokerage Cia. de Profesionales de Bolsa.  “They are obliged to go outside of Colombia to meet their
goal,” Munoz said today in a telephone interview. “It’s a risk.”  In Colombia, increased security is helping development of
the oil industry, Gutierrez said. President  Juan Manuel Santos ,
who took office Aug. 7, has pledged to maintain security
policies that enabled Ecopetrol to expand exploration and lured
international investment from companies including OGX and South
Korea’s SK Energy Co.  “We’re in the process of a transformation,”  Andres Jimenez , international sales director at Interbolsa SA,
Colombia’s biggest brokerage, said Oct. 1 in a telephone
interview from Medellin. “The guerrillas are weaker than they
ever have been.”  Ecopetrol this year snapped up new rights to explore for
oil at a government auction as companies expand exploration into
areas once dominated by guerrillas. Investment will rise by 11
percent to $6.9 billion this year as it spends on new wells,
refineries and oil pipelines.  Ecopetrol gained 20  pesos , or 0.5 percent, to 3,750 pesos
at 9:22 a.m. in Bogota. The stock has climbed 51 percent this
year. Colombia’s benchmark  Colcap  index has gained 29 percent in
the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Walsh  at   hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  