-- Hedge Funds Post Year's Biggest Gain as Stock Market Rebounds
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2010-10-05T15:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/hedge-funds-post-year-s-biggest-gain-in-september-as-stock-market-rebounds.html
Hedge funds probably recorded their
highest monthly return of the year in September, Credit Suisse
Group AG said, as the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities posted
its biggest  rally  for the month since World War II.  The  Credit Suisse Liquid Alternative Beta Index , which
tries to replicate hedge funds’ returns, climbed 3.6 percent
last month amid an 8.8 percent surge in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. The gain was the largest since a 3.1 percent jump in
July, when the S&P 500 rose 6.9 percent.  Credit Suisse’s  Long/Short Liquid Index , one component of
the beta index, contributed the most to the gain, rising a
record 5.4 percent. The long/short strategy involves buying
equities expected to increase in value and selling short shares
that are expected to decline. The Event-Driven Liquid Index,
which tracks funds trying to capitalize on company events such
as mergers, spinoffs and earnings reports, rose 4.7 percent.  “Alternative strategies deliver great risk-adjusted
returns with the opportunity to generate returns in equity
market rallies,” said  Peter Little , the New York-based head of
portfolio management for alternative beta strategies at Credit
Suisse. “Directional strategies -- event-driven and long-short
equity -- participated in that.”  The  Merger Arbitrage Liquid Index  posted a gain of 2
percent, and is 7.6 percent higher this year.  “There’s been a lot of talk of excess cash on companies’
balance sheets and that points to a strong merger environment,”
Little said. “That’s going to be a great story in 2010 and
continue to dominate the news.”  May’s Decline  Hedge funds posted their worst performance in May, when the
CSLAB index fell 2.6 percent, compared with a drop of 8.2
percent in the S&P 500. The CSLAB index shows hedge funds may
have returned 5.5 percent this year, compared with a 2.3 percent
gain in the S&P 500 through Sept. 30.  “The stock market for the year is pretty close to flat and
hedge funds are up 4 or 5 percent for the year,” said  Sol Waksman , president of Fairfield, Iowa-based BarclayHedge Ltd.
“So they don’t do as well in the strong up months, but they
outperform in a down month.”  Credit Suisse’s Liquid Alternative Beta, or LAB, indexes
seek to replicate the aggregate returns of hedge funds’
alternative investment strategies. The index uses an algorithm
to replicate the returns of specific hedge fund strategies, such
as carry trades, risk arbitrage and volatility arbitrage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 