-- Lehman Sale Blank Check May Haunt Judge at Barclays Trial
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-10-05T13:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/lehman-sale-blank-check-may-haunt-bankruptcy-judge-in-barclays-deal-trial.html
Two years ago, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 James Peck  in Manhattan gave lawyers a blank check to complete a
deal with Barclays Plc to salvage the remains of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  and prevent further financial catastrophe.  While Peck’s decision to let lawyers for both sides hash
out the final details of Lehman’s brokerage sale may have helped
seal the deal, his blanket approval spawned an $11 billion
lawsuit that threatens to undo the 2008 agreement.  Lehman alleges Barclays took advantage of the haste in
which the deal was worked out to gain assets it never told the
judge about. Now Peck may have to decide whether to undo his own
order, or find another way to claw back some money for Lehman
creditors.  “Those in charge of the sale decided, ‘the whole financial
system will collapse unless the sale is approved now,’” said
George Kuney, a professor at the University of Tennessee College
of Law in Knoxville who teaches bankruptcy and contract law.
“Once you proceed on that basis in a transaction of this size,
the process is going to be pretty sloppy and mistakes are
inevitably going to be made.”  Peck’s assistant and courtroom deputy Lynda Calderon didn’t
return calls requesting comment from the judge. Under Peck, the
two-year bankruptcy case has cost Lehman creditors $961 million
in fees to managers and advisers through August, the most
expensive bankruptcy ever.  Randomly Assigned  Peck, a 65-year-old native New Yorker, was the Manhattan
court’s second most-junior bankruptcy judge in September 2008
when he was randomly assigned the $639 billion Lehman
bankruptcy, based on the firm’s assets at the time.  Before Lehman, Peck’s cases included the $500 million
bankruptcy of Quebecor World (USA) Inc. in January 2008 and the
$924 million bankruptcy of Sirva Inc., in February 2008. He was
appointed to the bench in 2006.  Peck’s Sept. 19, 2008, order approving the brokerage sale,
signed four days after the 158-year-old bank collapsed,
specifically allowed Lehman’s and Barclays’ lawyers to change
any documents he’d approved, or add documents that weren’t
finished yet, though he said the changes shouldn’t “have a
material adverse effect on the debtors’ estates” and should be
okayed by Lehman, its creditors and Barclays.  “The purchase agreement and any related agreements,
documents or other instruments may be modified, amended or
supplemented by the parties thereto . . . without further order
of the court,” he wrote in his order.  Only Bidder  The 2009 lawsuit led to a trial that’s been going on since
April. It pits Lehman, which examiner  Anton Valukas  has said hid
billions of dollars in risks before it failed, against Barclays,
which was the only bidder for the brokerage.  Lehman accuses Barclays of taking a $5 billion “secret”
profit on a portfolio of securities it acquired with the
brokerage, and of making another $6 billion by writing up
business assets, skimping on promised payments and “grabbing”
more financial assets belonging to Lehman. Some of the disputed
assets were assigned to Barclays in a so-called clarification
letter that should have been shown to Peck, Lehman says.  Barclays says it wants $3 billion of assets that were never
delivered. Lehman has no legal right to challenge the
transaction now because its advisers knew and documented all the
details when the deal was struck, and defended it in a higher
court when it was challenged, according to Barclays.  Lehman Creditors  Any money Peck might extract from Barclays would help
Lehman creditors, whom the company estimated in September stand
to get about 15.8 cents on the dollar for their worldwide
claims, at the expense of Barclays, which reported net income of
2.4 billion pounds ($3.8 billion) in the first half.  Peck may have indicated a changed position on orders
earlier this year when Lehman’s lawyers asked to restructure the
firm’s biggest real-estate asset,  Archstone , a second time,
saying they couldn’t proceed without his permission if the deal
changed.  “Assume you don’t have that authority,” he told Lehman’s
lawyers at  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP  in a May court hearing.  Closing arguments in the Barclays case are due in late
October. Absent a settlement, Peck may rule in January or
February, lawyers in the case said. Britain’s third-biggest bank
may not be competing on an even playing field, said  Lynn LoPucki , a bankruptcy-law professor at the University of
California, Los Angeles.  “Bankruptcy courts tend to favor the debtors and the
debtors’ lawyers” who bring big cases to them, said LoPucki,
author of Courting Failure: How Competition for Big Cases Is
Corrupting the Bankruptcy Courts (University of Michigan Press).
“That puts outsiders like Barclays at a disadvantage.”  Lawyers and Witnesses  During the trial, Peck has been curt with Barclays’ lawyer,
 David Boies , known for representing the Justice Department in a
1998 antitrust case against Microsoft Corp., as well as U.S.
Vice President  Al Gore  in litigation over the 2000 presidential
vote.  “You can tell us later how Barclays saved the world,”
Peck said once to Boies. When Barclays President  Robert Diamond ,
whose company employs about 147,000 people in 50 countries
around the world, answered questions without first saying
“yes” or “no,” Peck said the witness “needs to be kept on a
very tight leash.”  In 2009, a U.S. district judge dismissed an appeal by
investors including hedge fund Bay Harbour Management LC, saying
they hadn’t proved Peck erred in approving the sale.  Speedy Sale  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York encouraged the speedy sale to Barclays
to calm global securities markets that were spooked by the
bankruptcy. Peck fended off Lehman creditors who said the sale
was moving too quickly and Barclays was underpaying, denying
their objections.  Within days of the sale closing, London-based Barclays’
blue and white logo replaced Lehman’s at its 32-story Manhattan
headquarters. Barclays paid $1.54 billion in the deal, as well
as taking over a $45 billion loan from the Fed, with collateral
nominally worth about $49.5 billion that took months to value in
nearly frozen markets, Barclays executives have testified in
court.  Peck isn’t likely to overturn his entire sale order, said
 Chip Bowles , a bankruptcy lawyer at Greenebaum Doll & McDonald
PLLC in Louisville, Kentucky. So-called 363 sales, which helped
the former General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC to reorganize
in bankruptcy and created jobs for 10,000 Lehman employees at
Barclays, normally are considered final in the courts, he said.  “To say the sale is invalid would be one of most
important decisions in bankruptcy history,” said Bowles.  Pension Fund Challenge  Lopucki said he saw no example in his 898-case bankruptcy
database at UCLA of a 363 sale ever being overturned.  Higher courts have usually upheld the finality of 363
sales, said Kuney. In 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court dismissed a
challenge by pension funds to the White House-backed bankruptcy
plan that let Chrysler sell assets to Italy’s Fiat SpA.  What Peck might do is invalidate part of the documents he
didn’t see, lawyers said.  “The judge could find the side agreements material, and
exclude them,” said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy law professor
at Seton Hall University School of Law in Newark, New Jersey, in
an e-mail.  Lehman and Barclays have been fighting court battles over
such terms as 15c3-3 assets -- a reference to securities
regulations -- and ETD (exchange-traded derivatives) margin that
were featured in a last-minute document. The first refers to a
Lehman account with $769 million while the second contained $1
billion of margin backing Lehman’s derivatives trades, which
Barclays says it was entitled to when it assumed Lehman’s
trades.  Signed, Never Saw  The margin was allocated to Barclays in a single bracketed
phrase in the final document that at least one person who signed
it,  James Giddens  of Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP, the trustee for
the brokerage, claimed not to have seen. Giddens’ lawyers signed
the document and testified in court on his behalf.  Peck might decide Barclays should give up those or larger
amounts, lawyers said.  “The judge said, ‘Don’t make any material changes,’” said
Bowles. “If it’s $1 billion, that’s real money.”  Jonathan Schiller , a lawyer for Barclays, declined to
comment.  Robert Gaffey , Lehman’s litigation lawyer, didn’t
return a call and e-mail seeking comment.  Abundance of Caution  Lehman’s lead bankruptcy lawyer  Harvey Miller  said during
the trial that he sold Barclays a business, not a collection of
assets, and didn’t see any material changes that needed Peck’s
approval. Bowles said that if he had been in Barclays’s shoes he
would have gone to Peck “out of an abundance of caution.”  Peck is handling three Lehman lawsuits against Barclays,
including one by Giddens and one by creditors. Giddens is
claiming a total of $6.7 billion, including the $3 billion
Barclays says he owes it.  Lehman’s collapse and the lamentations of its creditors
should be laid at the door of its former management, said  Mark Williams , a lecturer at Boston University who wrote a book on
Lehman, “Uncontrolled Risk.”  “Barclays the opportunistic acquirer is being unfairly
punished by creditor legal actions,” Williams said. “Creditors
need to hold Lehman executives and the board of directors
accountable for financial loss.”  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 