-- Emerging Market Stocks Advance for Fifth Day After Japan Reduces Rates
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-10-05T21:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/emerging-market-stocks-drop-on-valuations-drag-index-from-27-month-high.html
Emerging-market stocks gained for a
fifth day, the longest winning streak in almost three weeks, as
Japan’s benchmark interest rate cut and efforts stimulate growth
boosted investor confidence in the global economic recovery.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 0.6 percent to
1,096.86 by 5 p.m. in New York, the highest level since June
2008. Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index climbed 1.3 percent, while
Russia’s Micex index gained 0.6 percent. Turkey’s  ISE National
100 Index  advanced to a record level. The Bank of Japan cut the
overnight call rate target to a range of 0 percent to 0.1
percent, the lowest level since 2006.  The central bank pledged to keep its benchmark rate at
“virtually zero” until deflation has ended. Policy makers will
set up a $60 billion fund to buy government bonds and other
assets, inflating the balance sheet at a time when U.S. and U.K.
central bankers are contemplating similar moves.  “Japanese growth has been sluggish so anything that shows
desire to stimulate their economy or any economy in the world is
supportive for emerging markets in general,”  Greg Lesko , who
helps manage $750 million at Deltec Asset Management in New
York, said in a telephone interview.  Brazil’s real gained 2.1 percent versus the dollar as
Japan’s interest rate cut offset efforts by President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  to weaken the currency by taxing foreign
purchases of bonds.  Limit Inflows  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points to 270, the
lowest level in six weeks, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI+ Index.  Policy makers are trying to limit inflows to keep inflation
from accelerating and protect local export industries from
appreciating currencies. Investors have poured $49.4 billion
into emerging-market stock funds this year and $39.5 billion
into bond funds, EPFR Global data show.  “Capital controls will become more popular for emerging-
market governments” as developed economies step up stimulus
efforts and local inflation increases,  Bhanu Baweja , the London-
based global head of emerging-market fixed-income and foreign-
exchange strategy at UBS AG, wrote in an e-mailed note.  South Korea’s won declined 0.7 percent against the dollar,
the most in six weeks, as the government said it will audit
banks’ foreign-exchange trading, spurring concern policy makers
will step up efforts to curb the currency’s appreciation.  “Gains in the won were a bit fast,” Doh Boe Un, an
official at the financial regulator who is involved in the
audit, said in an interview in Seoul today. “We want to see the
market stabilize and the measures are expected to curb
volatility.”  Currency Tensions  World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said yesterday he sees
tensions arising from currency devaluations as nations seek to
buoy their economies.  The Taiwan dollar and India’s rupee weakened 0.3 percent,
while Malaysia’s ringgit and Indonesia’s rupiah both slipped 0.2
percent.  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index  advanced 1.3 percent, and
yields on benchmark two-year lira bonds fell 11 basis points to
7.92 percent, the lowest level since October 2009.  Moody’s Investors Service changed the outlook on Turkey’s
Ba2 local and foreign-currency government bond ratings to
“positive” from “stable,” saying the economy has returned to
pre-crisis levels and debt management has improved. The lira
strengthened 1.9 percent against the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  