-- Commonwealth Games' Empty Seats May See Delhi Students Handed Free Tickets
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-10-05T10:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/empty-seats-at-delhi-games-cause-concern-students-may-get-free-tickets.html
Commonwealth Games  chief Mike Fennell
expressed concern over the lack of spectators during the first
day of the Delhi event as organizers considered giving free
tickets to schoolchildren to fill empty seats.  “A number of venues didn’t have lots of spectators,” the
games federation president said today at a press conference in
the Indian capital. It’s a cause of “some concern,” he said,
adding that officials should look at ways to improve attendance
at venues for the Oct. 3-14 competition that features athletes
from  71 countries and territories .  While the organizers are not giving figures for those
attending each event, swimming, badminton and hockey competition
shown yesterday and today on the state-run  Doordashan  television
channel showed a handful of fans watching the action. Seats for
the opening ceremony, which ranged in price from $22 to $1,000,
were sold out.  Kalmadi said people who turned up at some stadia yesterday
had been unable to buy tickets at the gate. That was being
“rectified” with booths being opened. Long queues formed at
centers where tickets bought online could be collected yesterday,
the  Hindu newspaper  reported.  “There was a problem yesterday,” said Kalmadi, who was
jeered by a section of the crowd at the Oct. 3 ceremony after a
series of embarrassing management failures during the buildup.
“Some of the ticket stalls were not put up. You will find the
crowds from tomorrow.”  Organizers are considering giving tickets to students to
fill the venues, Kalmadi said. About 600,000 tickets have so far
been sold, from an initial target of 1.7 million, he said.
Watching one of the 17 sports featuring at the Delhi games can
cost from 50 rupees ($1.1) to 1,000 rupees.  The run-up to the games was marred by missed construction
deadlines, the collapse of a stadium footbridge and complaints
of uninhabitable accommodation for athletes. Authorities in the
last two weeks accelerated work to complete facilities, clean
dirty toilets and finish roads in the city of 14 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net ; 