-- EnBW May Raise $675 Million Selling 25% Stake in EVN
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2010-10-05T17:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/enbw-may-raise-as-much-as-675-million-selling-25-stake-in-evn-of-austria.html
EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG , a
German utility planning assets sales to reduce debt, may get 491
million euros ($675 million) for a 25 percent stake in  EVN AG ,
Austria’s second-biggest utility.  EnBW may sell as many as 40.9 million of its shares in EVN
at a price range of 10.50 euros to 13.50 euros, the Karlsruhe,
Germany-based utility said in an e-mailed statement today. EnBW
holds 57.2 million of  EVN ’s 163.5 million shares, according to
Bloomberg data.  EnBW, Germany’s third-biggest utility, is considering
selling assets to maintain its credit rating by paying down debt
it amassed through building and acquiring power plants. EVN
shares closed little changed at 11.61 euros in  Vienna  today
after slumping 12 percent this year. The Austrian company plans
to use the funds to build hydro power plants and wind parks as
well as to support its credit rating.  EnBW has “had to adjust to the market environment -- it
may not be what they wanted originally,” said  Rodger Rinke , a
Stuttgart, Germany-based credit analyst with Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg. The stock’s decline and the resulting lower sale
price won’t hurt EnBW’s  credit rating , he said. “It shouldn’t
be a problem for EnBW to realize its asset sale plans.”  EnBW  fell 2.6 percent to 36.05 euros at the 5.30 p.m. close
of trading in Frankfurt, its biggest decline since Sept. 14.  ‘Mid-Point’ Price  EVN aims to sell as many as 16.4 million new shares in the
same range as EnBW, the companies said in separate statements
today.  Assuming the sale of the maximum number of shares offered
and based on a “mid-point” price of 12 euros, the total
transaction volume may amount to about 687 million euros, of
which 196 million euros would be allotted to EVN’s capital
increase, EVN said in its statement.  Investors can subscribe to the joint share sale from Oct. 6
to Oct. 20, according the companies, which said the new shares
should start trading Oct. 22 in Vienna. Deutsche Bank AG,
Raiffeisen Centrobank AG and Societe Generale SA are managing
the sale.  EnBW will decide how many shares to sell once the
subscription period ends, company spokesman  Ulrich Schroeder 
said today by phone.  EnBW  acquired  power plants from larger rival E.ON AG last
year and is building a coal-fired unit in the German city of
Karlsruhe, a hydroelectric station in Rheinfelden as well as
offshore wind parks.  The utility began building its stake in EVN in 2001 as a
bridge to gain access to eastern European and Italian
electricity markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  