-- Energy Bracelets Turn Athletes to Stars, If Only in Their Heads
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/energy-enhancing-jewelry-improves-big-league-stars-if-only-in-their-heads.html
Philadelphia Phillies pinch-hitter
 Greg Dobbs  says he has no idea whether energy-enhancing jewelry
that’s being worn by athletes from Little Leaguers to basketball
icon  LeBron James  really works.  Yet, for the last month, Dobbs has worn a different brand
of energy bracelet on each wrist. “I want to stay impartial,”
Dobbs said with a chuckle. “Maybe my left side will feel better
than my right side.”  As Major League Baseball’s postseason opens tomorrow, each
contending team is likely to field several players wearing some
type of energy-flow bracelet, necklace or apparel.  Sales of the accessories have tripled in the U.S. since
2008, according to research group SportsOneSource. Closely held
Phiten Co. said its worldwide sales topped $200 million last
year. Bracelets made by  Power Balance LLC  have been spotted on
soccer star  David Beckham , Yankees slugger  Alex Rodriguez  and
Hollywood celebrities  Robert De Niro  and  Sean “Diddy” Combs .  The jewelry’s makers say their products use processed
titanium and holograms to improve balance, energy, recovery time
and flexibility. Critics say the sellers are perpetrating a scam
older than professional sports itself.  “This is utter nonsense,” said  Steven Nissen , head of
cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic. “There’s absolutely no
scientific reason why this would work. Unfortunately, we’ve not
done a good job as a society in keeping people from selling
snake oil.”  Placebo Effect  Nissen, an advocate for evidence-based medicine who has
helped shape U.S. regulations for pharmaceutical companies, said
the main reason for the popularity of the jewelry is the medical
phenomenon known as the placebo effect.  “If you come in to see me as a patient and tell me that
you have a terrible headache, and I give you a placebo sugar
pill and tell you that it’s going to relieve your headache,
there’s a 35 to 40 percent chance that it will relieve your
headache,” Nissen said in a telephone interview. “That’s
called the placebo effect. It’s very powerful, and that’s what
allows quackery to exist.”  Erica Jefferson, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, said none of the bracelets have been approved
for medical use, and any claims to reduce symptoms or treat a
condition must be backed by scientific evidence and reviewed by
impartial scientists.  “The agency encourages consumers to report side effects,
product defects or health fraud to the FDA -- which may include
complaints that these products don’t work, Jefferson said.  Shaquille O’Neal  Power Balance, of Laguna Niguel, California, counts among
its endorsers 15-time basketball All-Star  Shaquille O’Neal  and
Detroit Lions quarterback  Matthew Stafford , the top pick in the
2009 National Football League draft. The company’s corporate
partners include Rawlings Sporting Goods, a brand subsidiary of
 Jarden Corp ., based in Rye, New York, and the TaylorMade unit of
 Adidas AG  of Herzogenaurach, Germany.  Power Balance’s wristbands and pendants use a secret
hologram technology “designed to interact with your body’s
natural energy,” said Josh Rodarmel, 26, who co-founded the
company with his brother, Troy, 36. Troy discovered the
technique of treating holograms with “certain frequencies”
through “trial and error,” Rodarmel said.  “As far as studies, we haven’t really commissioned a ton
of them because we’ve been using testimonials as our backbone,”
he said in a telephone interview. “We just let our customers
tell the story.”  So, has Power Balance commissioned any studies on its
holograms?  “No, we haven’t,” Rodarmel said. “We are going to
probably begin to, but at this point we have not done any
studies.”  ‘Tricking Your Mind’  Nick Swisher , a right fielder for the New York Yankees who
wears a Power Balance bracelet and a variety of Phiten apparel,
said he doesn’t care if it’s just the placebo effect making him
perform better.  “If you are tricking your mind, you’re winning half the
battle,” Swisher said. “I don’t know if it provides any
energy. I don’t need any energy, bro.”  Phiten’s titanium products, which range from $25 to $85 for
a necklace on the company’s website, are made by dissolving
metals and infusing the mix into fabrics. The processed metals
“regulate and balance the flow of energy throughout the body”
and generate “more relaxed muscles leading to less stress and
greater range of motion,” according to the website.  Phiten, based in Kyoto, Japan, has funded four studies in
mice and humans, said Lisa Oka, a spokeswoman.  Improved Joint Range  One completed study  of 14 athletes, published in April in
the journal Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise, found
soccer and hockey players wearing titanium-treated clothes
didn’t play significantly better. Players wearing Phiten garb
did show improved joint range of motion, though the texture of
the particular garments may be partly responsible for the
benefit, the authors wrote.  Phiten is the market leader in sports energy accessories
according to SportsOneSource in Charlotte, North Carolina. It
has licensing agreements for its titanium products with Major
League Baseball, the National Basketball Association and the
U.S. PGA Tour. Endorsers include pitchers  Josh Beckett  of the
Boston Red Sox and the Yankees’ Joba Chamberlain, golfer  Sergio Garcia  and Denver Nuggets forward  Carmelo Anthony .  Phiten sells a pure titanium bracelet for $230, as well as
titanium-infused athletic tape, lotions and a $170 pillow.  Balance Demonstrations  Demonstrations  of balance and flexibility are used to win
over leery customers to Power Balance and  EFX Performance Inc .,
another hologram bracelet maker, as well as “As Seen on TV”
bracelet seller  iRenew Bio Energy Solutions LLC . The
performances, which include tests without and then with the
jewelry on, may be skewed by administrator bias and muscle
memory, the Phillies’ Dobbs said. Still, they’ve made believers
of many, including the Philadelphia team’s manager  Charlie Manuel .  “I put these on and I noticed the next morning when I woke
up, my hands were kind of free” of chronic arthritis pain, said
Manuel, 66, about Power Balance bracelets after taking a balance
test. “I’ve been wearing them ever since.”  John Murray,  a sports psychologist  in Palm Beach, Florida,
who has worked with professional athletes, said he wouldn’t
necessarily advise his clients against wearing the jewelry.  “There’s an old quote, ‘Don’t turn good faith into bad
faith,’” Murray, 48, said in a telephone interview. “So I’m
not going to go around telling people that they’re full of it or
they don’t need it if it helps them, but I’m going to promote a
more rational approach.”  No Scientific Tests  EFX, in Mission Viejo, California, relies on demonstrations
to prove its products’ effectiveness, said President Jim
Ruschman. The 1-year-old company, whose bracelet is worn by
golfer  Phil Mickelson , hasn’t conducted any clinical studies.  “We look forward to and embrace testing with anyone,”
said Ruschman, 52, in a telephone interview, agreeing that the
company’s balance tests are unscientific.  A telephone message left for iRenew through its customer
service center went unreturned.  Wearing exotic substances to improve health is nothing new;
magnets for therapy have been worn for centuries, attracting
patients with their unusual properties, according to the U.S.
 National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine  in
Bethesda, Maryland.  Third-century Greeks wore magnetic rings to treat
arthritis. Doctors in the Middle Ages used magnets to treat
gout, poisoning and baldness. In the U.S., magnetic hairbrushes,
insoles and ointments were widely used in rural areas following
the Civil War.  ‘Snake Oil’  Studies of magnetic jewelry haven’t shown demonstrable
effects on pain, nerve function, cell growth or blood flow,
according to the U.S. alternative medicine center.  Power Balance endorser  Shane Victorino , a Phillies
outfielder, echoed many players’ sentiment when he said:
“You’ll never know unless you try it.”  “That’s basically what a snake-oil salesman would say in
the 1800s,” said Bruce Berst, from Casper, Wyoming, who
portrays snake oil salesman “Dr. Dumass” in historical re-
enactments of life on the frontier. “If you are suffering and
can’t find relief, what do you have to lose but a dollar a
bottle?”  ‘Fashion Thing’  Phillies catcher  Brian Schneider  called energy-flow
products a “gimmick” and pitcher  Roy Oswalt  tabbed it a
“fashion thing.”  Cole Hamels , the 2008 World Series Most Valuable Player,
began wearing an EFX bracelet after taking their balance test in
late August. He won his next five starts, the best streak of his
career.  “If it’s something that allows me to do something helpful
-- legally -- then I’m all for it,” said Hamels, who didn’t
know whether the bracelet or his new Phiten socks had helped.  The craze reminds sports psychologist Murray of the film
“The Wizard of Oz,” when each character sought something
symbolic of human success.  “One got a heart, one got a brain,” Murray said. “That
was all bogus. A guy was behind a curtain. The power, folks, is
within us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 