-- English Soccer League, Pub Owners Clash in Court Over TV Viewing Rights
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2010-10-05T16:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/english-soccer-league-pub-owners-clash-in-court-over-tv-viewing-rights.html
England’s Football Association
Premier League Ltd. told a European Union court that it had the
right to prevent pubs from showing its matches using “illicit”
decoder cards.  The U.K. pubs are showing broadcasts from foreign countries
that damage its contracts with authorized distributors, lawyers
for the company said today at a hearing in Luxembourg.  The Premier League is the world’s richest soccer league and
is home to some of Europe’s most successful clubs including
Manchester United and Liverpool. The Premier League started a
three-year 1.78 billion-pound ($2.8 billion) television contract
in August and receives a further 1 billion pounds from the sale
of international broadcast rights.  “These cases could have very serious ramifications,” if
the  European Court of Justice  rules in favor of pub owners and
suppliers of satellite decoder cards,  James Mellor , a lawyer for
the Premier League, told a 13-judge panel of the court today.
“The practice of regional and territorial licensing with all
its benefits will be swept aside.”  Karen Murphy, the owner of a pub and defendant in one of
the cases, faces a criminal lawsuit in the U.K. after buying a
decoder card allowing her to show League games from Greek
television for cheaper than on U.K. broadcaster  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. The Premier League  argued these cards
are “illicit” because they’ve been used outside the area for
which they were made.  Premier League broadcasters promise to protect the
territorial exclusivity of their rights by preventing
transmissions from being received outside the permitted area.  “The broadcasting market has been partitioned across
national lines, depriving consumers of choice,” said Martin
Howe, a lawyer for Murphy and suppliers of decoder cards and
satellite equipment. “The questions in these cases are of
highest importance for the future of the EU single market.”  The cases are C-403/08, Football Association Premier League
Ltd, v QC Leisure and C-429/08, Karen Murphy v Media Protection
Services Limited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  