-- Kravis Pledges $100 Million for Columbia Business School Campus
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2010-10-05T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/henry-kravis-pledges-100-million-to-columbia-for-business-school-campus.html
Henry Kravis , the billionaire co-
founder of private-equity firm  KKR & Co. , pledged $100 million
to fund expansion of Columbia Business School, the largest gift
in its history.  The donation will go toward construction of the business
school’s new site in the Manhattanville section of New York
City, where Columbia University is developing a second campus.
One of the school’s two new buildings will be named for Kravis,
Columbia Business School said today in a statement.  Kravis, 66, earned a master’s in business administration
from Columbia in 1969 and has previously supported the
university and other educational and New York-related
organizations. He and his cousin George Roberts formed KKR more
than three decades ago and continue to run it.  “We’re not just constructing a building, we’re building a
community of entrepreneurs,” Kravis said in an interview. “If
we don’t get our education system right, we’re going to be going
backwards. I want to make sure this campus gets built. I think
it will be phenomenal.”  Kravis helped pioneer the leveraged-buyout industry, which
uses cash committed by investors and borrowed money to buy
companies and sell them later for a profit. New York-based KKR’s
2007 LBO of power producer TXU Corp. for $43.2 billion including
assumed debt is the largest on record. That deal topped
transactions including KKR’s 1989 takeover of RJR Nabisco Inc.,
the subject of the bestselling book “Barbarians at the Gate.”  Claremont McKenna  KKR is moving into new areas such as securities
underwriting and debt investing as the buyout business recovers
from the bust that followed the 2007 credit crisis, when funding
for deals dried up. The firm made its debut on the  New York
Stock Exchange  earlier this year after merging with a European
affiliate. It canceled a 2007 plan to go public after the global
credit crisis seized markets.  Kravis earned a bachelor’s degree in economics from
Claremont McKenna College, and in 2006 he established the Kravis
Prize in Leadership, awarded in conjunction with Claremont
McKenna, which also houses the Kravis Leadership Institute.  A native of Oklahoma, Kravis has long worked to promote job
creation and investment in New York. He is the co-chairman of
the New York City Investment Fund, which he created in 1996.  He’s also on the board of directors of the Partnership for
New York City, a network of the city’s executives who promote
its economy.  Keeping Focus  At Columbia, Kravis serves as co-chair of the  Board of
Overseers  and has been active in discussions about the new
campus, said Columbia Business School  Dean Glenn Hubbard .  “He’s the one who’s kept me most focused on how teaching
and research space happens,” Hubbard said in an interview.  Columbia Business School is now housed in Uris Hall, a 12-
story building that opened in 1964 following protests from
architecture students who objected to its design, and Warren
Hall, a 1999 facility it shares with the law school. Cramped
conditions mean researchers share windowless cubicles and former
basement space was cleared out to use as a laboratory.  “The building was a constraint,” Hubbard said of Uris
Hall. “It’s not a constraint because it isn’t handsome,
although it isn’t. It was a constraint because it didn’t let us
do what we wanted to do.”  $6.3 Billion Project  The Kravis building will be among the first to be
constructed at Columbia’s Manhattanville campus, a 17-acre site
in West Harlem that will also house science and arts facilities.
Demolition and site preparation work has begun on the $6.3
billion project, which won’t be completed until 2030. The
business school’s buildings will open in about six years,
Hubbard said.  To assemble land for the project, Columbia has turned to
the state’s power of eminent domain, drawing a challenge in
court by area landowners. In June, the New York Court of Appeals
ruled that the university’s expansion was a “civic purpose”
that allowed the state to use its power to acquire real estate.
Two landowners have appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, which
has not said if it will hear the case.  Columbia Business School has 1,475 students in its MBA
program, which is ranked seventh in the U.S. by Bloomberg
Businessweek magazine. Graduates of the business school, which
was founded in 1916, include Warren Buffett, chairman of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.; Vikram Pandit, chief executive officer
of Citigroup Inc.; and Mario Gabelli, CEO of Gamco Investors
Inc.  B-School Expansions  The Kravis building will be one of two buildings that
together will cost about $500 million, Hubbard said. That makes
them among the most expensive of recent business school
construction projects. The Massachusetts Institute of
Technology’s Sloan School of Management, in Cambridge, opened a
$140 million building this year. Stanford University, near Palo
Alto, California, will open the $350 million Knight Management
Center next year.  The complex is named after Phil Knight, the founder of  Nike
Inc. , who donated $105 million. The Yale School of Management,
in New Haven, Connecticut, is planning a $180 million building
to open in 2013. The University of Chicago Booth School of
Business opened the $125 million Harper Center in 2004.  Hubbard said the new facility will allow students and
faculty to work with local entrepreneurs in West Harlem as well
as facilitate more open communication among students and New
York’s broader business community.  “You need to have the best faculty, the best curriculum,
the best students and the best facilities,” Kravis said. “One
leg has been missing, and this will round out this great
school.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
 Oliver Staley  in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  