-- Merged WestLB, BayernLB Would Dominate German Debt Underwriting
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-10-05T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/merged-westlb-bayernlb-would-dominate-german-debt-underwriting.html
A combined  Bayerische Landesbank  and
 WestLB AG , the German state-owned lenders in talks to merge
after taxpayer bailouts, would leapfrog  UniCredit SpA  to become
the biggest arranger of debt sales in the country.  The two lenders had a joint market share of 15.1 percent as
of Sept. 30, topping the Milan-based bank’s 13.5 percent, among
46 companies in German debt underwriting tracked by Bloomberg.
The ranking excludes deals where banks underwrite their own debt
sales. UniCredit solidified its position in the German market
with the 2005 takeover of Munich-based lender HVB Group.  WestLB and BayernLB, which received 10 billion euros ($13.8
billion) of capital and a so-called risk shield of 4.8 billion
euros from the Bavarian state, are examining a merger that would
create Germany’s third-biggest bank. WestLB, the recipient of 3
billion euros from Germany’s Soffin bank-rescue fund, must be
sold by the end of 2011 to meet European Commission conditions
for the aid.  “BayernLB and WestLB have been massively benefiting from
business with state institutions,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-
income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “The
state owns large stakes in those lenders, thus the state lets
them have the easy pickings.”  Banks underwrote 154 billion euros of so-called third-party
debt in Germany in the first three quarters of the year,
compared with 232 billion euros in all of 2009 and 165 billion
euros in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Climb in Ranking  BayernLB has climbed to No. 6 in the ranking this year from
14th in 2000, while WestLB rose to second place from 11th in the
same period, Bloomberg data show. In euro bonds, WestLB ranks
19th among third-party underwriters and BayernLB is 23rd.
 Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest bank, is No. 1 in the
market.  “In the long run, we aim to be among the top five
underwriters of debt in Germany and we’d like to use that
position to grow throughout Europe,” said  Joerg Senger , head of
capital markets at BayernLB in Munich.  WestLB has similar ambitions, said  Thorsten Schetter , who
leads the Dusseldorf-based company’s primary debt markets unit.  “While WestLB’s own funding requirements will decline over
the next years, we are optimistic that we can keep a front-row
ranking in German debt underwriting,” Schetter said. “Although
we are very well positioned in Germany, it’s very important for
us to also succeed with international transactions and to
broaden our international footprint.”  ‘Open Competition’  Germany’s five largest debt underwriters this year --
UniCredit, WestLB, DZ Bank AG,  Commerzbank AG  and Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg, Germanys’ biggest state-owned lender --
arranged 43 percent of third-party debt issuance in the first
nine months, Bloomberg data show.  WestLB and BayernLB say their owners and other government-
institutions aren’t automatically getting underwriting
assignments. BayernLB is “in an open competition with private
lenders,” according to Senger. The company “doesn’t get a
favorable treatment” from state institutions, he said.  At WestLB, it’s also “not a given that we participate in
every transaction that is being done by one of our owners,”
Schetter said. “We are benefiting from the close relationship,
but we still have to work as hard as anybody, and if we
successfully do so, it’s legitimate that we are part of those
transactions.”  Self-Led Issuance  WestLB and BayernLB are getting a boost from self-led
issues as Germany’s eight state-owned lenders, also known as
Landesbanken, rely more on capital markets for funding since
they typically don’t have large consumer networks that
competitors have. Self-led issuance at UniCredit accounted for 5
percent of its underwriting in the first nine months of this
year, compared with 50 percent at BayernLB.  WestLB sold 58 percent, or 19.3 billion euros, of its own
debt to investors and also managed 9.4 billion euros of issuance
for its so-called bad bank. Excluding debt sales for Erste
Abwicklungsanstalt, which is winding down toxic and other assets
to shrink WestLB’s balance sheet on European Commission orders,
WestLB would have managed about 14 percent in third-party
transactions among its total debt underwriting in Germany.  “Business we arranged for Erste Abwicklungsanstalt clearly
helped us leap to the top rank in German debt underwriting,”
WestLB’s Schetter said. “Though this could be viewed as a
special effect in terms of overall volume, we expect to continue
doing business with them in the years to come.”  Apart from transactions for its bad bank, WestLB’s biggest
deals this year were two 500 million-euro debt issues for
NRW.BANK, the development bank of the German state of  North
Rhine-Westphalia , which has a stake in WestLB. The lender’s
owners, which also include regional savings banks, provided a
total of 14 billion euros of guarantees in addition to Soffin’s
aid to cover potential losses that are still in place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  