-- Tesco First-Half Profit Gains as International Sales Rebound
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-10-05T10:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/tesco-first-half-profit-gains-as-international-sales-rebound.html
Tesco Plc  Chief Executive Officer
 Terry Leahy  marked his last announcement of the U.K. retailer’s
results by reporting profit that beat estimates and forecasting
an earlier end to U.S. losses than some had anticipated.  So-called trading profit, a measure which excludes property
gains, climbed to 1.69 billion pounds ($2.67 billion) in the six
months ended Aug. 28, from 1.55 billion pounds a year earlier,
the U.K.’s largest retailer said today. That beat the 1.61
billion-pound median  estimate  of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Tesco rose as much as 1.8 percent in London trading.  The 145-store Fresh & Easy chain should become profitable
in fiscal 2013 as it double openings to two a week in the next
12 months, said Leahy, who has had to contend with losses at the
U.S. unit since its creation in 2007. The CEO also reported a
“sharp improvement” in Asian markets such as Thailand and
Korea, which have helped drive  sales growth  at Cheshunt,
England-based Tesco since Leahy took the helm in 1997.  “The departing chief executive leaves a steady ship which
is poised for further success,” said  Richard Hunter , head of
U.K. equities at Hargreaves Lansdown. “After a rocky start, the
U.S. business sees profitability emerging on the horizon.”  Tesco  shares  were little changed at 430.25 pence at 11:23
a.m. in London, after rising as high as 438 pence. The stock has
gained less than 1 percent this year, lagging behind the 20
percent gain of domestic competitor J Sainsbury Plc.  Fresh & Easy, which had a first-half loss of 95 million
pounds, will open 19 stores in the second half, said Leahy, who
is due to retire in March and be replaced by  Philip Clarke ,
Tesco’s director of international operations.  ‘Positive Surprise’  A combination of increasing sales per store and a larger
network of outlets in California, Arizona and Nevada will drive
the chain to profitability, the CEO said.  The Fresh & Easy profit target is a “big, positive
surprise” and is three years earlier than expected, according
to  Clive Black , an analyst at Shore Capital in London.  International sales at stores open at least a year rose 4.1
percent in the second quarter, after being unchanged in the
first quarter, Tesco also said today.  Asia, where trading profit rose 30 percent, is probably
Tesco’s “star market,” Finance Director  Laurie McIlwee  told On
The Move with  Francine Lacqua  on Bloomberg Television.  To compensate for slowing growth in its domestic market,
the U.K. retailer is spending 2 billion pounds developing
shopping malls in China and plans to extend its hypermarkets and
franchise convenience outlets in South Korea. The CEO said Tesco
would be interested in Carrefour SA’s south-east Asian assets,
though it depends on the price and value.  U.K. Economy  “It would make sense for us to look at those assets,” he
said.  “We’ve got strong businesses in Thailand and Malaysia.”  Carrefour aims to sell its units in Thailand, Malaysia and
Singapore and focus its Asian operations on China and Indonesia.  Tesco’s Japanese unit, which was the only market not to
report same-store sales growth, will carry on reshaping its
stores into smaller-format Express convenience outlets even as
the country’s economy “blows a hurricane,” Leahy said.  Economic recovery in the U.K. has been “a bit slower than
expected,”  Leahy  said in a phone interview.  “It’s just slower and steadier” than the international
markets, he said. Spending may be spurred after the anniversary
of increases in gasoline prices last fall, which reduced the
average family’s monthly budget by about 20 pounds, he said.  Tesco also announced today that Tesco Bank will introduce
mortgages in the first half of next year and customer bank
accounts in the second half of fiscal 2012.  First-half  net income  climbed 15 percent to 1.18 billion
pounds, while sales increased 8.3 percent to 32.9 billion
pounds, including value-added tax.  “These results tick many if not most boxes, and the
outlook for group returns looks positive,” said  Justin Scarborough , an analyst at RBS, with a “buy” rating. “Sales
recovery is gaining momentum in its international markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net . 