-- Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Appoints Hailemariam as His Deputy Leader
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2010-10-05T14:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/ethiopian-prime-minister-meles-appoints-hailemariam-as-his-deputy-leader.html
Ethiopian Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi 
appointed Hailemariam Desalegn as his deputy while making
changes to his Cabinet, government spokesman  Shimeles Kemal 
said.  Hailemariam replaces  Addisu Legesse  and will also oversee
the Foreign Ministry, previously headed by  Seyoum Mesfin ,
Shimeles said in a phone interview today from Addis Ababa, the
capital. Hailemariam is currently the deputy chairman of the
ruling Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front and is
the former chief whip in parliament, he said.  “He is a long servant to the country in different
capacities,” Shimeles said. “He has shown exceptional leadership
skills and caliber. He is one of the rising stars of Ethiopian
politics.”  The EPRDF won 545 of the 547 seats in the Horn of Africa
nation’s parliament in elections in May. A European Union
observer mission declared that the vote failed to meet certain
“international commitments.” The U.S. National Security
Council said it was “concerned” about the observers’ findings.  Shimeles wouldn’t comment on whether Hailemariam, whom he
said is “in his 40s or early 50s,” may succeed the prime
minister. Meles, a 55-year-old former Marxist guerrilla, has
pledged that the next five years will be the last of his 19-year
rule.  “This will become known at the end of the term,” Shimeles
said. “You can see from past declarations from the prime
minister and others that a succession will take place. You can
see some reflection of this in the lineup. Several young
ministers have been appointed.”  Shimeles said other appointments announced today include
Sinknesh Ejigu as minister of mines, while the finance,
agriculture, energy and defense portfolios were left unchanged.  Ethiopia  is Africa’s biggest coffee producer and the
continent’s second-most populous nation, after  Nigeria .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 