-- EU Ready to Cede IMF Seats to Reach Deal on Revamp, German Official Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-10-05T13:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/eu-ready-to-cede-imf-seats-to-reach-deal-on-revamp-german-official-says.html
The European Union is ready to give
up as many as two seats on the International Monetary Fund board
in a bid to reach a compromise on revamping the Washington-based
institution, a German government official said.  Compromise is needed on all sides to overhaul country
representation at the IMF, including from the U.S., the German
official told reporters in Berlin today, speaking on condition
of anonymity because negotiations have yet to begin. IMF reform
and the state of the world economy will be the focus of meetings
in Washington this week, the official said.  Germany is prepared to give up some of its IMF quota on the
condition that other states that are over-represented on the IMF
executive board do the same, the official said. The EU demands a
full package of IMF reform and not a partial overhaul, the
official said.  The IMF no longer fully reflects the rising economic clout
of countries such as India and China. The U.S., which blocked a
proposal to maintain the IMF board in its current 24-seat form,
has said it is seeking stronger representation of emerging
economies to bolster the fund’s legitimacy.  The largest shareholders, including Germany, should keep
their “appointed seats,” Deputy Finance Minister  Joerg Asmussen  said Oct. 1. European Union states seek a renouncement
of the “gentlemen’s agreement” whereby the managing director
of the IMF comes from Europe and the managing director of the
World Bank at the same time comes from the U.S., he said.  IMF Seats  Germany, France and the U.K. each has  its own seat , along
with the U.S. and Japan.  The so-called G-20 Framework for Growth, a package of
measures to foster the global economy, will be discussed by G-20
deputy ministers this week, the German official said.  A German Finance Ministry study paper distributed in Berlin
today noted the IMF and other research institutions estimated in
May that the yuan was as much as 27 percent undervalued against
the currencies of China’s trading partners. The euro and the
U.S. dollar were as much as 13 percent overvalued respectively
against the currencies of the countries’ trading partners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  