-- Europe Services, Manufacturing Cool as Retail Sales Decline
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-10-05T12:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/european-services-manufacturing-cool-as-growth-in-new-business-weakens.html
Europe’s  services and manufacturing 
 industries  grew at the slowest pace in seven months in
September, adding to signs that the economy is weakening as
governments from Spain to Ireland implement austerity measures.  A  composite index  based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries fell to 54.1 in September from 56.2,
London-based Markit Economics said today. It had initially
reported a drop to 53.8. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.
Spanish services contracted the most since February and Irish
activity shrank for the first time since March.  Europe’s recovery is weakening as governments accelerate
efforts to tackle their budget deficits and fix their banks just
as the global economy weakens. Spain in September announced the
biggest cuts in three decades, and Ireland was last week forced
to raise the cost of bailing out its financial system to 50
billion euros ($68 billion).  “Disposable incomes will be hit by a tightening and
spreading fiscal squeeze,” said  Jennifer McKeown , an economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “As exports slow further
in the coming months, we see the overall euro-zone recovery
faltering.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on
Sept. 30 that he remains “cautious” about the economic
outlook, while the weakness of growth today prompted the Bank of
Japan to reduce borrowing costs for the first time since 2008.  Ireland, Spain  The euro-region’s  services index  fell to 54.1 in September
from 55.9 in August, Markit said, the weakest since October. The
 manufacturing gauge  declined to a six-month low of 53.7 from
55.1, it said on Oct. 1. A gauge measuring an expansion of new
business in both industries was the weakest in almost a year,
reflecting “slower growth of both domestic and external
demand,” today’s report said.  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
report and was at $1.3767 as of 1:07 p.m. in London, up 0.6
percent from yesterday. The single currency has strengthened 10
percent against the dollar over the past three months, making
exports less competitive.  A gauge of services in Ireland dropped to 48.8 from 52.9 in
September, and Spain’s index fell to 47.9 from 49.2. Bank of
Spain Governor  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  said the country’s
economy showed a “clear weakening” in the third quarter.  Services still expanded in the bloc’s biggest economies. In
 Germany , Europe’s largest economy, the gauge fell to 54.9 from
57.2. France and Italy posted readings of 58.2 and 51.3,
respectively.  Spending Cuts  As governments trim budgets with spending cuts and tax
increases, consumers may remain reluctant to boost spending. A
separate report today showed euro region  retail sales  fell 0.4
percent in August, the most since April. Economists had forecast
a 0.2 percent gain, according to the median of 21 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The outlook for real household-income growth is not
positive, linked to low employment and compensation growth,
which is a restraint on spending,” said  Ken Wattret , an
economist at BNP Paribas in London.  Euro-area economic growth  probably weakened to 0.5 percent
in the third quarter from 1 percent in the second, the European
Commission said on Sept. 13. The economy may grow 0.3 percent in
the current quarter, it forecast. German  investor confidence 
dropped to a 19-month low in September and European  unemployment 
held at the highest in more than 12 years in August.  With the global recovery losing steam, companies may find
it difficult to boost sales. U.S. manufacturing growth weakened
in September, backing the  Federal Reserve ’s forecast for a
“moderate” pace of economic expansion over the coming months.  Central Bank Action  The Bank of Japan today pledged to keep its benchmark
interest rate at “virtually zero” until deflation has ended,
with policy makers setting up a 5 trillion-yen ($60 billion)
fund to buy government bonds and other assets.  The ECB will probably keep its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 1 percent when policy makers meet in Frankfurt on
Oct. 7, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The bank last
month extended unlimited liquidity support to banks into 2011,
giving them more time to patch up their balance sheets.  In Europe, governments have stepped up fiscal tightening as
they struggle to restore investor confidence after this year’s
sovereign debt criiss. Moody’s Investors Service said today it
may cut Ireland’s credit rating on the cost of bank bailouts.
Portugal’s government last week announced additional austerity
measures to push down the region’s fourth-largest shortfall
after Ireland, Greece and Spain in 2009.  EU Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on Sept. 30
in Brussels that the euro region is not “out of the woods.”
 Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of Italian carmaker
Fiat SpA, said last week that September “was not a great
month” in Europe.  “Most elements of the euro-zone survey weakened, pointing
to further softness ahead,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in London. The economy “is
facing serious economic headwinds as fiscal tightening is
increasingly kicking in across the region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  