-- European Stocks Advance; Greek Banks, TUI Travel Shares Climb
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-10-05T15:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-tesco-may-move-on-earnings.html
European stocks rose, snapping six
days of losses, as Moody’s Investor Service said it’s impressed
with Greece’s efforts to reform its finances and U.S. service
industries expanded more than forecast.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA, Greece’ second-largest lender,
surged 5.6 percent to the highest level in more than two weeks.
 TUI Travel Plc  jumped 4.2 percent after saying results will
reach its yearly forecasts. British Airways Plc soared to a two-
year high as passenger traffic rose last month by the most in
more than two years. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG advanced 3.6
percent after Banco Santander SA advised buying shares of the
world’s biggest maker of luxury cars.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  surged 1.3 percent to 261.18 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, the biggest gain in more than a
month and ending the longest stretch of declines since January
2009. The gauge has rallied 13 percent since its low this year
in May as investors speculated that the global economy will
avoid another recession. Still, concern that peripheral euro-
area countries will struggle to repay their debt has left the
gauge 4 percent below its April high for 2010.  “Overall the environment isn’t too bad for risky assets,”
said  Markus Steinbeis , head of equity portfolio management at
the Unterfoehring, Germany-based unit of Pioneer Investments
KGmbH, which oversees about $221 billion globally. “We can
expect another good earnings quarter with no major
disappointments. It’s not surprising to see some consolidation
but the market will rise after a short period of weakness.”  U.S. Economy  The Institute for Supply Management’s  index  of non-
manufacturing businesses in the U.S., which covers about 90
percent of the world’s largest economy, rose to 53.2 from 51.5
in August. The gauge, where readings greater than 50 signal
growth, averaged 55.3 during the six-year expansion that ended
in December 2007. The median forecast of 76 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News projected the ISM index would rise to 52.  The gauge of  U.K. services  activity increased to 52.8 from
51.3 in August, Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply said today in London. Economists forecast
51, according to the median of 28 predictions in a Bloomberg
News survey.  In Asia, stocks rebounded after Japan’s central bank cut
its benchmark interest rate and said it will create a 5 trillion
yen ($60 billion) fund to buy government bonds and other assets
to support the economy, while Australia unexpectedly kept rates
unchanged for a fifth month.  “Markets will increase faster than expected,” said  Stefan Risse , a strategist at CMC Markets in Hamburg. “Good earnings
and low interest rates can bring an uptrend to equities.”  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes rose in all of the 18 western
European markets today except for Iceland. Germany’s DAX gained
1.3 percent, while France’s CAC 40 jumped 2.3 percent. The
U.K.’s FTSE 100 increased 1.4 percent.  Eurobank surged 5.6 percent to 4.75 euros and Alpha Bank
SA, Greece’s third-largest lender, climbed 4 percent to 4.96
euros. Greece’s drive to overhaul its public finances has
“impressed” Moody’s and if it continues the risk to the
country’s sovereign rating forecast “is to the upside,”
 Anthony Thomas , a London-based senior analyst at the ratings
company, said today at a credit conference in Warsaw.  TUI, BA  TUI Travel  jumped 4.2 percent to 225.9 pence, the biggest
gain in more than a month. Europe’s largest tour operator said
bookings for winter 2010/2011 have strengthened in all markets
and that full-year results will meet forecasts. Demand was
particularly strong for winter-holiday packages like Thomson
Couples, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Long  said.  British Airways  climbed 6.5 percent to 254.6 pence after
saying passenger traffic rose last month for the first time
since February as bookings to Europe and the Middle East surged
and the threat of strikes receded.  Last month’s rebound was led by a 4.3 percent increase in
first and business-class traffic, British Airways said, with
demand gaining 0.7 percent in coach. Yields, a measure of
average ticket prices, were “strong” across the cabin, it
said. Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA, which is merging with
BA, rallied 5.7 percent to 2.95 euros.  Homeserve Plc  rallied 3.9 percent to 459.1 pence, the
biggest gain in more than a month. The U.K-based emergency-
repair service provider was rated as “outperform” in new
coverage at Credit Suisse Group AG.  BMW added 3.6 percent to 49.96 euros. The world’s biggest
maker of luxury cars was rated “buy” in new coverage at Banco
Santander, which cited “a strong product cycle,” a volume
recovery in the premium car market segment,” and “exposure to
China.”  Inmarsat Plc tumbled 4 percent to 629 pence.  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger Capital Partners said it sold 65 million
shares in the company, about half its stake, at 630 pence each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 