-- Shipping Naphtha to Asia Drops on German Growth: Energy Markets
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-10-06T17:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/europe-s-naphtha-shipments-to-asia-to-evaporate-in-october-energy-markets.html
European refiners will export little
or no naphtha to  Asia  this month amid demand from German
petrochemicals producers that has driven prices to the highest
closing level in seven months.  Asian-bound shipments of the oil product, which can be used
to make motor fuel or as a feedstock for plastics, may drop to
zero, from about 160,000 metric tons in September, according to
a Bloomberg survey of six traders. Exports peaked this year at
about 500,000 tons in May.    Germany ’s economy will expand 3.4 percent this year, almost
three times the pace projected in May, the Brussels-based
European Commission said Sept. 13. Faster growth is stoking
demand from petrochemical companies that turn naphtha into the
ethylene and propylene used in everything from plastic bottles
to car bumpers. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Daimler AG’s
Mercedes-Benz, the world’s two biggest luxury-carmakers, are
targeting a 10 percent increase in auto sales this year.  “Demand from  consumer goods  and automotive industries is
good,” said Stephan Kippe, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “For the most part, European chemical companies
haven’t seen a significant summer lull this year.”  European naphtha closed at $759 a ton today, the highest
price since March 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Its discount to North Sea Brent crude, a gauge of European
refining margin, was minus $1.70 a barrel, compared with minus
$6.10 on July 13 and an average of minus $2.25 in the past year,
according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd.  Petrochemical Needs  Naphtha consumption is also increasing before the northern
hemisphere’s winter as petrochemicals makers such as BASF SE,
the world’s largest chemical company, stop using liquefied
petroleum gas as an alternative feedstock because of the
increased need for LPG as heating fuel.  “In the last month petrochemicals producers in Europe have
been switching to naphtha because LPG prices have been
relatively high,” said Jonathan Leitch, London-based senior
analyst at Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd.  LPG has traded at a premium to naphtha in Europe since
Sept. 2, according to Bloomberg data. Propane, the main
liquefied petroleum gas, cost $2 a ton more today, compared with
a discount of $62 on June 15.  Demand for European naphtha from Brazilian companies such
as state-owned  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  and Braskem SA, Latin
America’s largest petrochemicals producer, is also driving
prices higher amid a shortage of ethanol caused by a drought
that’s harmed the country’s sugar crop, according to JBC Energy
GmbH, a Vienna-based industry group. Ethanol is made from sugar.    Brazil  Ethanol Output  “Brazil is experiencing lower ethanol production levels as
insufficient rainfall has reduced feedstock yields,” JBC Energy
analysts wrote in a report on Oct. 1.  Naphtha for delivery to Japan, the Asian benchmark price,
gained for the ninth day amid the reduced shipments from Europe.
It climbed to $750.13 a ton, the longest rally in almost seven
years, according to Bloomberg data. The winning streak matched a
nine-day rally through Dec. 15, 2003.  Prices still aren’t high enough to attract traders seeking
to profit from regional differences. Cargoes of naphtha for
October delivery were $13 a ton more expensive in Asia than in  Europe  on Sept. 29, according to two Asian-based traders who
declined to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
comment publicly. November shipments were $14.50 higher, they
said. Arbitrage shipments only become profitable at $18 a ton,
according to the traders.  Failed Booking  This week OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-largest oil producer,
gave up a provisional booking of the Mari Ugland to load a cargo
from Banias in Syria, according to a fixture report from
shipbrokers Millennium Chartering Ltd.  Demand in Asia is likely to fall next month as chemical
plants shut for maintenance. Formosa Petrochemical Corp. plans
to halt its No. 2 ethylene plant on Oct. 5 for as many as 45
days. Taiwan’s state-owned CPC Corp. will close its No. 4
naphtha cracker on Nov. 3 for as many as 55 days. Titan
Chemicals Corp. will restart its No. 2 cracker at Pasir Gudang
in southern  Malaysia  in late October after maintenance, ICIS, a
chemical news and pricing service, reported on Oct. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Graham in London at 
 Rgraham13@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  