-- European Companies' Reluctance to Borrow Could Hamper Recovery, EU Warns
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2010-10-05T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/european-companies-reluctance-to-borrow-could-hamper-recovery-eu-warns.html
European companies’ reluctance to
borrow in the wake of the financial crisis may restrain
investment and demand and lead to a “protracted” period of
weak economic growth, the European Commission said.  “Balance-sheet adjustments can have important
macroeconomic consequences following periods of corporate over-
indebtedness, strong business cycle downturns, stock market
declines and losses in potential output,” the commission said
today in a report. “Investment tends to fall during the
adjustment phase,” which “reduces domestic demand in the
economy and hence slows output growth.”  Companies’ efforts to lower borrowings could take about
eight years, the commission said, citing studies of 31 previous
episodes. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said last month that it’s not time to declare “victory” over
the recession, while data today showed manufacturing and
services growth slowed in September.  The commission on Sept. 13 forecast the region’s economic
growth would show a more “moderate” pace in the second half
after 1 percent growth in the second quarter. It estimates
expansion eased to 0.5 percent in the three months through
September and forecasts that it will slow to 0.3 percent in the
current quarter.  “The analysis of previous episodes of corporate balance
sheet adjustment shows that they have been associated with
sizeable negative macroeconomic consequences, including weak GDP
growth due to lower investment rates and falls in labour
compensation,” the commission said. Cuts in wages “place a
drag on disposable income and, ultimately, private
consumption,” it said.  Governments should address remaining problems in the
banking sector and use policies to boost potential growth, the
commission wrote. Companies need better access to equity
capital, taking away the need to lower costs by cutting
investments and wages, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 