-- Former Pershing Partner Starts Blackstone-Backed Fund
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-10-05T15:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/ex-pershing-partner-richard-mcguire-starting-blackstone-backed-hedge-fund.html
  Richard McGuire , a former partner at
Pershing Square Capital Management, lined up financing from a
unit of  Blackstone Group LP  to start a stock hedge fund, looking
to add stakes in small and mid-sized companies.  Marcato Capital Management LLC, based in  San Francisco ,
will target industries such as real estate and  consumer goods ,
which typically have reliable cash flows, McGuire said yesterday
in an interview. The firm will invest in companies with market
values of $500 million to $5 billion, he said.  “There are a lot of companies in the small and middle
market that go under-analyzed and under-appreciated,” said
McGuire, 34, who will serve as portfolio manager. The strategy
mirrors that of  William Ackman ’s Pershing, where McGuire worked
from 2005 to 2009.  Hedge fund startups are relying more on seeding firms for
initial funds as investors gravitate to larger managers. Almost
all the $23 billion put into  hedge funds  during the first half
went to those with more than $5 billion, Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc. said Sept. 15. Such funds account for 60
percent of the industry’s $1.6 trillion of assets.  The biggest private-equity firms, such as Blackstone and  Carlyle Group , have filled that void for startups by seeding
more funds after investors shied away from large buyouts in the
wake of the financial crisis. New York-based Blackstone is
backing a fund being started by George Taylor, former head of
commodities proprietary trading at Credit Suisse Group AG,
according to two people briefed on the plans.  Pershing Partnerships  Marcato probably will pursue more stakes in companies like
Landry’s Restaurants Inc., which agreed to a $1.4 billion
takeover by Chief Executive Officer Tilman Fertitta this year,
McGuire said. McGuire, who also persuaded Ackman to invest in
the restaurant chain, said he doubled his own investment in
Landry’s after he and Pershing pushed the company to seek a
higher offer. Shareholders approved the deal yesterday.  The fund may team up with New York-based Pershing on some
investments, he said. McGuire declined to disclose how much
money he will start with.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for
Blackstone, whose Blackstone Strategic Alliance Fund LLP is
participating, declined to comment.  Ackman also declined to comment, referring instead to his
second-quarter letter to investors on Aug. 26, in which he
mentioned the investment in Landry’s and McGuire bringing it to
the firm’s attention.  “We wish him well and look forward to the opportunity for
future partnerships in situations where our involvement can
enhance our respective returns,” Ackman said in the letter.  McGuire gained boardroom experience at  Borders Group Inc .
when he became a director at the second-largest U.S. bookseller
after Pershing became the largest shareholder in 2008. He moved
into the chairman’s role the next year and helped develop a
turnaround plan for the unprofitable chain. He resigned in May
after Bennett LeBow became Borders’s biggest investor, as well
as chairman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  