-- Mexico Sells $1 Billion of 100-Year Bonds in Overseas Markets
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2010-10-05T21:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/mexico-to-sell-500-million-of-100-year-bonds-overseas-as-soon-as-today.html
  Mexico  sold $1 billion of bonds due
in 100 years in the longest-maturity debt issued by a Latin
American country.  The government, which doubled the size of the sale from
$500 million, sold the bonds to yield 6.1 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. arranged the sale. Mexico’s Finance Ministry press
office didn’t return a call for comment.  Mexico is taking advantage of global investor demand for
higher-yielding, emerging-market debt amid record-low  interest
rates  in  Europe  and the U.S. Japan’s central bank pledged to
hold its benchmark overnight interest rate at “virtually zero”
and buy government bonds to revive its economy. U.S. Treasury
10-year note yields traded near a five-week low on speculation
the  Federal Reserve  will increase asset purchases, known as
quantitative easing, to bolster growth.  “Mexico is picking a good time to do it,” said  David Spegel , head of emerging-market debt strategy at ING Groep NV in
New York. “Rates in the U.S. are going to come down thanks to
the quantitative easing. That’s why you want to hold a long-
duration instrument.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican debt
instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 1.52 percentage
points at 5:31 p.m. in New York. The gap has narrowed from 2.15
in May.  ‘Trendsetter’  Mexico’s sale of so-called century bonds is the longest-
dated debt issued by a Latin American government, according to
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. China sold $100 million of
100-year, 9 percent bonds in 1996, according to Bloomberg data.
Emerging-market companies including Chile’s Empresa Nacional
Electricidad SA and  India ’s Reliance Industries Ltd. have also
issued the bonds.  “Mexico is definitely a trendsetter,” said  Siobhan Morden , a debt strategist with RBS in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Mexico sold 850 million euros ($1.08 billion) of seven-year
bonds July 8 in its first European offering since 2005. It has
raised $5.1 billion in international markets this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexico’s 100-year bond sale is “evidence of how
extraordinary the demand for yield has become,” Peter Boockvar,
equity strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York , said in a
note to clients.  Mexico’s stocks and bonds are beating the U.S. and Brazil
for the first time since 2002 as growth expectations overshadow
concerns about drug related violence, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Dollar debt issued by Mexico is returning 16 percent in
2010, more than the 14 percent for Brazil bonds and 9 percent
for U.S. Treasuries, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank
of America Corp.  Growth Outlook  The International Monetary Fund forecasts Mexico’s economy
will expand 4.5 percent this year after shrinking 6.5 percent in
2009, the biggest rebound among the world’s largest nations
after  Russia .  Gang violence in Mexico has killed more than 28,000 people
since President Felipe Calderon took office in 2006. Eleven
Mexican mayors have been killed since the start of the year.  “Given all the negative news, Mexico wants to present
something positive,” said ING’s Spegel. “The ability to place
a seriously long term debt instrument successfully sends a very
positive signal that investors believe in the long term
repayment capacity of the country.”  The IPC stock index is up 6.7 percent, compared with a 4.1
percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 and 3.9 percent
gain for the Bovespa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  