-- Times Square Bomber Faisal Shahzad Gets Life in Prison
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/failed-times-square-bomber-faisal-shahzad-gets-life-prison-sentence.html
Faisal Shahzad , the naturalized U.S.
citizen who drove a bomb-laden vehicle into New York’s Times
Square, was ordered by a federal judge to spend the rest of his
life in prison and told to think about “whether the Koran wants
you to kill lots of people.”  U.S. District Judge  Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum  in Manhattan
sentenced Shahzad to life in prison yesterday for the failed
terrorist attack on May 1. There is no parole in the federal
penal system.  “The defendant has repeatedly expressed his total lack of
remorse and his desire, if given the opportunity, to repeat the
crime,” Cedarbaum said.  “Allahu Akbar,” Shahzad responded in Arabic, meaning
“God is great.” Shahzad, 31, who was born in Pakistan, smiled,
nodded and pointed his index finger upward.  Shahzad, a Muslim who worked with the Taliban in Pakistan
and traveled to a terrorist training camp just months after
becoming a U.S. citizen, was asked by Cedarbaum about his oath
of allegiance to his adopted nation.  “I did swear, but I did not mean it,” he replied.  “The Koran gives us the right to defend, and that’s what
I’m doing,” he told the judge. He began yesterday’s proceeding
by announcing, “If I’m given 1,000 lives I will sacrifice all
of them for the life of Allah.”  Shahzad, a former financial analyst who admitted receiving
training and funding from the Pakistan Taliban for the foiled
attack, used the proceedings to air his condemnation of the U.S.  ‘Brace Yourself’  “Brace yourself, because the war with Muslims has just
begun,” Shahzad said. “Consider me only a first droplet of the
flood that will follow me.”  Shahzad, who said when he pleaded guilty that he attempted
the attack to avenge the deaths of Muslims, yesterday denounced
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  “The past nine years, the war with Muslims has achieved
nothing for the U.S. except it has awakened Muslims from their
slumber,” Shahzad said, staring at Cedarbaum. “We are only
trying to defend our religion, our people, our honor and our
land. If you call us terrorists for doing that, then we are
proud terrorists, and we will keep on terrorizing until you
leave our land and people at peace.”  Bin Laden, Saladin  Shahzad praised  Osama bin Laden  and predicted the
establishment of a Muslim caliphate. He compared bin Laden to
the 12th century Muslim leader Saladin, who recaptured Palestine
from European crusaders.  “And so it’s very clear for us Muslims, either we are with
the mujahedeen or we are with crusading, losing Christians,”
Shahzad said. “There is no in between. Blessed be the
immigrants and the leader Sheikh Osama Bin Laden, who will be
known as no less than Saladin of the 21st century crusade, and
blessed be those who give him asylum.”  Shahzad didn’t let his lawyer address Cedarbaum. He claimed
that agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation hadn’t read
him his rights and said they had threatened his family.  Shahzad admitted in June that he drove a Nissan Pathfinder
laden with improvised explosives into the crowded Manhattan
intersection. He fled Manhattan when the bomb failed to detonate
and was arrested May 3 at New York’s  John F. Kennedy
International Airport  after boarding a flight to Dubai.  ‘Substantial’ Intelligence  After his arrest, Shahzad cooperated with the U.S. and
provided “substantial” information and intelligence, U.S.
Attorney General  Eric Holder  said in May.  White House spokesman  Nick Shapiro  said yesterday that
Shahzad’s case “underscored the strength of our justice
system.”  “We are pleased that this terrorist has been sentenced to
spend the rest of his life in prison, after providing
substantial intelligence to our interrogators,” Shapiro said in
a phone interview.  “We were able to use everything that he said and
everything that we uncovered for intelligence-collection
purposes,” Shapiro said. “The case shows once again how our
values and the rule of law can keep us safe against those
determined to do us harm on behalf of terrorist organizations
overseas.”  Shahzad pleaded guilty on June 21 to all 10 terrorism-
related charges, including attempted use of a weapon of mass
destruction, in an indictment filed by prosecutors in the office
of U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  in Manhattan.  The Pathfinder, containing a device made of firecrackers,
propane tanks and gasoline canisters, was found abandoned on the
street as the items in the back smoldered, the U.S. said.  Set Detonator  Shahzad told Cedarbaum when he pleaded guilty that he set
the bomb’s detonator to go off within 2 1/2 to 5 minutes and
then walked away. He said he folded a loaded 9 mm Kel-Tec rifle
that he brought with him, put it in a bag, and walked to Grand
Central Terminal train station, about five blocks away.  He told investigators that he planned to detonate a second
bomb if he hadn’t been arrested for the attempted May 1 attack,
prosecutors have said.  The government argued in court papers that Shahzad deserved
a life prison term because his crime was premeditated and
because he exploited the benefits of his citizenship to join a
foreign terrorist organization intent on attacking the U.S.  After becoming a U.S. citizen in April 2009, Shahzad
traveled last December to the Waziristan region of Pakistan,
where he stayed with members of the Taliban called the “Tehrik-
e-Taliban,” prosecutors said in court papers. He stayed with
the group for 40 days and received bomb-making instructions
before leaving in January, the U.S. said. He also received about
$12,000 to finance the attack, prosecutors said.  Cedarbaum told prosecutors yesterday that she didn’t need
to hear from them.  ‘Happily’ Unsuccessful  She told Shahzad, “What you have done here, although
happily the training you sought in making bombs was unsuccessful
and you were unsuccessful in your effort to kill Americans, you
have made it plain that all of the factors that I mentioned
before require that you be incarcerated for life.”  The courtroom was filled yesterday with FBI agents and New
York Police Department investigators who worked on the case.
Shahzad was brought into the courtroom rear-handcuffed and
escorted by six deputy U.S. marshals.  “Faisal Shahzad is a remorseless terrorist who betrayed
his adopted country,” Bharara said in a statement.  Shahzad, who lived in Bridgeport, Connecticut, worked for
three years as a financial analyst at Affinion Group Holdings
Inc. in its accounting department. Affinion, a provider of
marketing and customer-loyalty plans controlled by  Leon Black ’s
private-equity firm, Apollo Management LP, employed Shahzad from
2006 until 2009, the company said in May.  ‘Forfeit His Freedom’  “It’s totally appropriate that he forfeit his freedom
because he was willing to forfeit people’s lives,” New York
Police Commissioner  Raymond Kelly  said at a news conference.  Shahzad’s “sentence sends a clear and unequivocal message
to those who seek to do us harm; our justice system is swift and
strong,” U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York said in a
statement. “Let this be a warning to others who would attempt
to attack us: you will be caught; you will be held to account;
and justice will be brought down upon you.”  The case is U.S. v. Shahzad, 10-00928, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in federal court in New York at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 