-- Fast Retailing Shares Fall After Uniqlo Sales Plunge on Japan's Hot Summer
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2010-10-05T00:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/fast-retailing-shares-drop-in-tokyo-on-weakest-uniqlo-sales-in-seven-years.html
Fast Retailing Co. , Asia’s largest
listed clothing retailer, fell the most in four weeks in Tokyo
trading after its Uniqlo chain posted the biggest drop in
monthly domestic sales in more than seven years.  Fast Retailing  declined 1.8 percent to 11,560 yen on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, as of 9:12 a.m., after earlier today
dropping 2.7 percent, the most since Sept. 8. The benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped 0.5 percent.  Sales at Uniqlo stores open at least a year in Japan
plunged 24.7 percent in September from a year earlier, the
Yamaguchi, Japan-based retailer said yesterday. That’s the
biggest decline since February 2003, according to company data.  Demand for jackets, long-sleeved shirts and other autumn
apparel was “weak” last month because of the hot weather, said
Daisuke Hase, a company spokesman. The average temperature in
Tokyo was 25.1 degrees Celsius (77.2 degrees Fahrenheit) in
September, 1.6 degrees hotter than the seasonal norm, Japan’s
weather agency said on its  website .  Uniqlo’s same-store sales surged 32 percent in September
last year.  Apparel retailer  Point Inc.  and Japan’s second-largest
department-store operator  J. Front Retailing Co.  also said the
hotter weather reduced demand for warm clothes last month. Point
said last week that sales at stores open at least a year slipped
13 percent, while J. Front said sales fell 3.7 percent.  Fast Retailing in Osaka last week opened its first flagship 
Uniqlo store in Japan as part of a drive to operate bigger 
outlets in its home market. The company’s chief executive officer
and biggest  shareholder  is  Tadashi Yanai , who was named Japan’s 
richest man by Forbes Asia magazine in its January issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  