-- Feldstein Says Home Prices May Fall Again Without U.S. Aid
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-10-05T16:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/feldstein-says-home-prices-may-fall-again-without-resumption-of-u-s-aid.html
U.S. home prices may fall again
unless the government provides new aid that would enable owners
to refinance mortgages, Harvard University economics professor
 Martin Feldstein  said.  “The danger is house prices are going to start falling
again because of the end of the first-time homebuyer credit,”
Feldstein said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.” “That fall in house
prices,” coupled with a lack of equity in homes, “could lead
to a big increase in defaults and foreclosures, putting
more homes on the market driving prices down.”  A government tax credit of as much as $8,000 gave housing a
temporary lift in late 2009 and early this year and helped stop
a fall in property values. A new housing program would need to
focus on reducing the principal in mortgages, allowing
refinancing of mortgages whose values exceed what the homes
would sell for, said Feldstein, chairman of the White House
Council of Economic Advisers during the Reagan administration.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values increased 3.2
percent from July 2009, the smallest year-over-year gain since
March, the group said Sept. 28.  Feldstein, a member of President  Barack Obama ’s Economic
Recovery Advisory Board, told Obama yesterday that extending
income tax cuts for two years would stimulate demand and boost
the recovery. He is a former president of the National Bureau of
Economic Research and a member of the NBER committee that last
month declared the worst U.S. recession since the Great
Depression ended in June 2009.  “It would be a mistake to raise any taxes at the current
time,” Feldstein said. “The economy is very weak.”  Obama wants to extend the tax cuts passed under President
 George W. Bush  for American households earning less than
$250,000 and individuals earning up to $200,000. The cuts would
be allowed to lapse on Dec. 31 for those earning more.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
 Margaret Brennan  at   mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  