-- Ford Said to Aim for 35% Cut in Metro Lincoln Outlets
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2010-10-05T20:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/ford-said-to-aim-for-35-cut-in-metro-lincoln-outlets-update1-.html
Ford Motor Co.  may cut about
35 percent of its metropolitan Lincoln dealerships as the
automaker seeks to boost sales at the remaining locations and
revive its luxury brand, said a person familiar with the plans.  The company would eliminate about 175 of its 500 Lincoln
dealerships in the nation’s top metropolitan markets, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the plans are
private. Ford also has about 700 Lincoln dealers in rural areas.  “In the top 130 markets, our vision is to substantially
reduce the number of dealers to become competitive,”  Mark Fields , Ford’s president of the Americas, told reporters today
at a briefing in Dearborn, Michigan. “We need to make sure our
dealers are competitive in their throughput so they can provide
the experience our customers expect.”  Fields declined to say how many dealerships may be closed.  Ford invited its 1,187 Lincoln dealers to a two-day meeting
to reveal its expectations for improving the luxury line after
the automaker drops its mid-priced Mercury brand at the end of
the year. Most Lincoln dealers also sell Mercury vehicles and
will lose more than half their  sales  as the company asks them to
invest in upgraded showrooms and service.  Ford will meet with each of its Lincoln dealers twice by
the end of the year to tell them how much they must spend to
renovate their showrooms and improve customer service, Fields
said. The renovations could  cost  as much as $2 million per
showroom, dealers have said.  ‘Difficult Meeting’  “It was a very difficult meeting,” said Bob Tasca Jr.,
who owns Lincoln-Mercury and Ford showrooms in Rhode Island and
Massachusetts. “Very simply, there are too many dealers and
many are not even located properly. They’re going to have to
have a reality check if they’re going to invest in Lincoln.”  Ford didn’t present dealers with plans or drawings of what
they expect the new showrooms to look like and said those
discussions will come in the private meetings. Fewer than
25 percent of dealers already meet the new standards, said  Ken Czubay , vice president of U.S. sales, service and marketing.  “It will require a different level of profitability”
among dealers, said  Jim Farley , Ford’s global marketing chief.
“Our expectations will require them to invest differently than
in the past.”  Lincoln sales have plunged almost two thirds from their
peak and now average fewer than two vehicles a week for each
dealer, one-thirteenth the volume of  Toyota Motor Corp.’s  Lexus.  Finding Financing  Given the declining fortunes of Lincoln and its dealers, it
will be difficult for many to get financing for the renovations
Ford is requesting, said Jack Kain, a Ford and Lincoln dealer in
London, Kentucky.  “It’s hard to convince a bank I need to spend that kind of
money on this dealership,” Kain said. “It might be a good time
to hang it up for some dealers.”  Lincoln’s buyers are aging and the brand is fighting an
image driven by the Town Car, the typical airport shuttle of
corporate executives. Lincoln sold an average of 5.8 cars per
showroom a month in 2009, compared with Lexus’s more than 78,
according to company data and research firm Grant Thornton.  “Their clientele is dying off,” said auto analyst  Jesse Toprak  of researcher TrueCar.com, which says the average age of
a Lincoln buyer is 59, second oldest in the U.S. car business.
“The biggest challenge is convincing people that Lincoln is a
true luxury car. Most Lincolns were really just souped-up
versions of Ford cars.”  Mulally’s Plan  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  told dealers yesterday
the company is focusing on Lincoln, Ford’s lone luxury line now
that he has sold the Volvo, Aston Martin, Jaguar and Land Rover
brands, said the person familiar with the matter.  Mulally is seeking younger buyers and a bigger slice of the
 more-profitable  premium-car market with redesigned models such
as the MKX sport-utility vehicle and touch-screen technology to
operate phone, stereo, navigation and climate controls.  After peaking at 231,660 vehicles in 1990, Lincoln’s U.S.
sales fell to 82,847 last year. While sales are up 6.8 percent
this year, those of  General Motors Co.’s  Cadillac have surged
44 percent. Total U.S. sales of luxury models were up 15 percent
through September, according to J.D. Power & Associates.  “We’re going to make a major  investment  in Lincoln over
the next four years with seven new or significantly refreshed
products,” Fields said last month. “Our approach is to enhance
and expand Lincoln here in the U.S. and then we can think about
maybe looking at global opportunities.”  Small Car  A new Lincoln small car is among the models  Ford  has said
are coming by 2014. The automaker has overhauled Lincoln’s
design theme to outfit vehicles with prominent, split-bow
grilles and is dedicating engineering and marketing staff to the
brand, rather than having it share personnel with Ford.  Ford rose 17 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $13.01, the highest
since Aug. 9, at 4 p.m. in composite trading on the New York
Stock Exchange. The shares have risen 30 percent this year.  Ford is seeking to upgrade the buying experience to emulate
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , Lexus and  Daimler AG’s  Mercedes-
Benz. Ford executives showed dealers videos of rivals’ customers
extolling their German and Japanese luxury cars and denigrating
Lincoln, said the person familiar with the meeting.  Lincoln has more than five times as many showrooms as
Lexus, which has 230, said  Paul Melville , an auto-retailing
analyst for Grant Thornton in Southfield, Michigan. Lexus sold
162,438 cars and trucks this year through September, more than
double Lincoln’s 63,286.  Stop ‘Cannibalizing’  “The main competitor for a Lincoln dealer is the other
Lincoln dealer down the street,” Toprak said. “Once dealers
are not cannibalizing each other, the remaining more profitable
dealers can provide better service and facilities to consumers,
which in turn leads to high satisfaction and loyalty rates.”  Fields said Lincoln declined as Ford put efforts on its
other luxury brands over the last decade. Now that Ford has sold
off Jaguar, Land Rover, Aston Martin and Volvo, the sole focus
is on Lincoln to boost the company’s luxury business.  “We don’t have to compete within the company anymore,”
said Tasca, who also is chairman of the Lincoln-Mercury dealer
council. “We’re down to one luxury brand, Lincoln, and it’s our
last bite of the apple to fix it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 