-- French Police Arrest 12 Islamic Militant Suspects in Sweep Across South
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-05T13:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/french-police-arrest-12-islamic-militant-suspects-in-sweep-across-south.html
French police arrested 12 people
suspected of links to Islamic militant groups in a series of
raids in southern France today, a security official said.  Two men arrested in Marseille and one in Bordeaux are
linked to a French national arrested at the weekend in Naples,
Italy under a French arrest warrant, said the official, who
can’t be named under the guidelines of the French police.  Another nine people were arrested in Marseille and nearby
Avignon, he said. He said he couldn’t confirm Agence France-
Presse reports that weapons were seized because the searches are
still going on. Police don’t know yet if there is a link between
the two sets of people, though they both belong to radical
Islamic movements.  French Interior Minister  Brice Hortefeux  confirmed the
three arrests in Marseille and Bordeaux during a parliamentary
debate today.  “There is a real terrorist menace in France and Europe,”
Horteufeux said. “The French government is working hand in hand
with its partners and allies.” European Union interiors
ministers are due to meet Oct. 7 in Luxembourg.  The U.S. government has warned Americans in Europe to be
“vigilant,” though it hasn’t advise them to put off any
travel.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  have both recently held publicized meetings with heads of
the domestic security forces to discuss terror threats.  Opposition political leaders have said the government is
trying to divert attention from high unemployment and its
efforts to increase the retirement age.  The last deadly terror attacks in France were in 1995 when
Algerian militants set off bombs around Paris. Security
officials have said in interviews that they’ve disrupted an
average of two attacks a year over the past decade.  -- with assistance from  Helene Fouquet  in Paris. Editors:  Andrew Atkinson ,  Craig Stirling   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  