-- German Stocks Increase for First Day in Seven; Led by Deutsche Boerse, BMW
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-10-05T15:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/german-stocks-fluctuate-e-on-rwe-drop-as-deutsche-boerse-gains.html
German stocks rose for the first day
in seven as gains by Deutsche Boerse AG and Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG outweighed a decline in  E.ON AG , the country’s largest
utility.  Deutsche Boerse climbed 2.7 percent after Credit Suisse
Group AG recommended the shares. BMW jumped 3.6 percent as one
of its car models came joint first in a new U.S. rating of
vehicle safety. E.ON lost 0.8 percent after two brokerages cut
their price estimates for the utility.  The benchmark  DAX Index  gained 1.3 percent to 6,215.83 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The index yesterday posted the
longest losing streak since January 2009 after better-than-
estimated economic reports from the U.S. failed to ease concern
that the recovery was stalling. The measure rallied 4.4 percent
in the third quarter as investors speculated that the Federal
Reserve and other central banks would step in to provide more
stimulus for the ailing global recovery. The broader  HDAX Index 
also added 1.3 percent today.  “We have one short-term support on equities in the
upcoming third-quarter earnings season and one mid-term support
that could be further quantitative easing from the Fed,” said
 Jean-Claude Wolferstaetter , a Munich-based manager at
Versicherungskammer Bayer, which oversees $43 billion. “These
are two powerful supports for equities. I wouldn’t be concerned
about a correction in markets in October.”  Europe’s services and manufacturing industries slowed less
in September than economists had expected, London-based Markit
Economics said today. A composite index based on a  survey of
euro-area purchasing managers  in both industries declined to
54.1 from 56.2 in August, Markit said. A reading above 50 means
that the industries expanded. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
had expected a reading of 53.8.  Deutsche Boerse Climbs  Deutsche Boerse  climbed 2.7 percent to 48.44 euros, paring
three days of losses. Credit Suisse said that the company’s weak
trading volumes in the third quarter were “well discounted” in
the shares’ price.  “Although we would caution that the volume environment
remains mixed at best, we believe that with Deutsche Boerse’s
share price near to 2010 lows, this is an attractive long-term
entry point on this stock,” the bank wrote in a report to
investors, as it reiterated an “outperform” recommendation.  BMW  jumped 3.6 percent to 49.96 euros. The German
carmaker’s 5 Series and Hyundai Motor Co.’s Sonata got the
highest rating among passenger cars and trucks tested for
crashes under a new U.S. rating system.  TUI AG rose 3.2 percent to 9.89 euros. The company’s TUI
Travel Plc unit, Europe’s largest tour operator, said its
bookings for this winter have strengthened in all markets and
full-year results will meet its forecast.  E.ON, RWE Slide  E.ON  lost 0.8 percent to 21.21 euros, the shares’ fifth
straight decline. Germany’s largest utility was cut to
“underweight” from “neutral” at HSBC Holdings Plc, which
slashed its price estimate on the shares to 19 euros from 26
euros. The brokerage cited reduced earnings and dividend
forecasts and said that the utility could set medium-term
targets at a presentation on Nov. 10 that “risk disappointing
the market.”  Separately, JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its price estimate for
E.ON shares to 27 euros from 28.50 euros. The bank said that
increased electricity generation capacity in Germany would mean
lower profits for the utility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 merritt1@bloomberg.net . 