-- German Utilities Said in Lead to Buy CVC-Backed Evonik Plants
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2010-10-05T06:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/german-utilities-said-to-lead-bidding-for-cvc-backed-evonik-power-plants.html
A group of German local utilities is
the frontrunner to buy Evonik Industries AG’s power plant unit,
said three people with knowledge of the matter. The business is
valued at 3 billion euros ($4.1 billion), according to analysts.  The utilities, led by  Duisburger Versorgungs und
Verkehrsgesellschaft mbH , have support from the state
governments and labor representatives which control Essen,
Germany-based Evonik’s biggest shareholder, said the people, who
asked to remain anonymous because details of the transaction are
private. Energeticky Prumyslovy Holding, of the Czech Republic,
German environmental services company Remondis AG and Turkey’s
Park Holding  are also bidding, said three of the people.  Evonik, in which private equity firm CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. holds a 25 percent stake, is selling the unit, called
Steag, to raise funds for its chemicals business. The buyer
would access the fifth-largest portfolio of electricity
generators in Germany, assets in the Philippines, Turkey and
Colombia, as well as a power plant building business.  “Evonik is a political animal, so a group of municipal
utilities may well have a trump card or two up its sleeve,”
said  Christian Kleindienst , an analyst with UniCredit SpA in
Munich. “They need it as German municipal utilities are short
in power generation.”  Kleindienst and fellow UniCredit analyst  Jochen Schlachter 
said they estimate Steag to have an enterprise value, a measure
of a company’s worth including its debt, of about 3 billion
euros. UniCredit recommends investors buy Evonik’s bonds.  Energy Policy  Evonik spokeswoman  Barbara Mueller  declined to comment.
Dirk Pomplun, a spokesman for Stadtwerke Essen AG, which speaks
for the group of utilities, declined to comment. Remondis
spokesman Michael Schneider declined to comment.  Martin Manak ,
an EPH spokesman, declined to comment. Park Holding couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  The local utilities want to acquire 51 percent of Steag to
help determine energy policy in their region. The utilities may
seek to sell assets including the non-German power plants, said
one person.  The utilities aren’t willing to pay as much as other
bidders for Steag and Evonik may reject their offer as too low,
said one of the people.  The majority of the power Steag generates in Germany is
purchased by utility  RWE AG  under private contracts. Those
contracts could be renegotiated in 2012 and 2014, said one of
the people.  Shut Plants  The utilities are concerned that Essen, Germany-based RWE
may have the right to shut aging power plants in Steag’s
portfolio and that has also lowered the price they are ready to
pay, said one of the people.  Lothar Lambertz , a spokesman for
RWE’s German power generation unit, declined to comment.  Politicians from North Rhine-Westphalia, Saarland, the
German government as well as the country’s IGBCE union supervise
the management of the RAG foundation, which owns the remaining
74.9 percent of Evonik. RAG is trusted with funding Germany’s
exit from deep-shaft coal-mining by selling the industry’s
assets as well as Evonik.  Most of Germany’s municipal utilities, which supply more
than 50 percent of the power and natural gas consumed in the
country, are controlled by local authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net 
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net  