-- GM Said to Approach Sovereign Wealth Funds to Boost Stock Sale
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-10-05T17:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/gm-is-said-to-approach-sovereign-wealth-funds-to-boost-initial-stock-sale.html
Investment bankers for General Motors
Co. have met with sovereign wealth funds and private investors
in the Middle East and Asia to gauge interest in the automaker’s
planned stock sale, said two people familiar with the meetings.  GM’s bankers had planned to approach Riyadh, Saudi Arabia-
based  Kingdom Holding Co. , Abu Dhabi-based Mubadala Development
Co., Qatar Holdings LLC and Singapore-based  Temasek Holdings
Pte.  about GM’s initial public offering, said one of the people,
who asked not to be named because the discussions are private.  Seeking large international investors is one way for the
nation’s largest automaker to generate demand for its stock in
preparation for an IPO next month. GM and its bankers are
forging ahead with the stock offering in a year when at least 47
companies have postponed or withdrawn U.S. IPOs, two people
familiar with the plan said.  “We have seen sovereign wealth funds involved with the
larger international deals,” said  Matt Therian , research
analyst with Renaissance Capital LLC, a Greenwich, Connecticut-
based research firm that has studied IPOs since 1991. “This is
not a $100 million tech firm we’re talking about. This is a very
large deal and it’s still a market that has pricing pressure.”  GM and the U.S. Treasury Department, which owns 61 percent
of the company, aim to hold an $8 billion to $10 billion IPO in
November, which is scaled back from the company’s original plan
of as much as $16 billion, two people familiar with the matter
said last month. The department is more interested in a high
share price than a large initial sale, they said.  A GM spokeswoman, Noreen Pratscher, declined to comment.  ‘Buyer’s Market’  A $10 billion share sale by GM would be the biggest U.S.
IPO since  Visa Inc. ’s $19.7 billion raised in March 2008. The
offering would be the third-largest all-time in the U.S., also
trailing AT&T Wireless Group’s $10.6 billion offering in 2000.  The largest deal to be postponed this year was  Liberty
Mutual Agency Corp. ’s proposed $1.3 billion IPO. The company
delayed its offering on Sept. 29 because demand was below
expectations, the insurer said. Had the deal gone through it
would have been the biggest U.S. IPO so far in 2010.  “It’s very much a buyer’s market,” Therian said.
“Companies have to come up with a realistic view of what they
are worth. A lot of deals are being priced below their proposed
range.”  While the market has been tough on some deals, Therian said
that the right IPOs can still get done. IPOs in the U.S. have
raised $20.95 billion so far this year, 95 percent more than the
same period a year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Right Direction’  “It’s not where it was in mid-decade, but it’s headed in
the right direction,” Therian said.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
producer, raised as much as $70 billion last month in the
world’s largest share sale as investors bet on its plans to
double output within a decade by tapping offshore fields.  A large GM offering at a lower share price would place more
pressure on the government to win higher prices in future
offerings, two people said. GM and its investment banks had
considered a deal worth $12 billion to $16 billion, people
familiar with the plans said in August.  For the U.S. to recoup its $50 billion investment in GM, it
needs to sell at an average price, before splits, of $131 a
share, said a person familiar with the matter. The stock will
likely be split to sell at an initial price of around $20 a
share, said one person familiar with the offering.  Neil Barofsky , the special inspector general for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, put the figure at $133.78, before
splits. While the U.S. bailout was paid for with TARP money,
only a portion of the government’s stake will be sold in the
initial offering.  Auto Holdings  Sovereign funds, which may buy stock in GM to diversify
away from oil and gas investments, tend to be large, patient,
investors who keep broad portfolios, three of the people said.
They also don’t quibble over the price, nor do they agitate for
management changes, two of the people said.  Qatar is the third-largest shareholder in  Volkswagen AG 
with a $5.22 billion stake, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It also owns London’s Harrods Department Store Co.
Mubadala has a stake in  Fiat SpA ’s Ferrari SpA.  Abu Dhabi’s Aabar Investments PJSC is the largest
shareholder in  Daimler AG , the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, with
a 9.08 percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Second-largest is Kuwait Investment Authority, with 6.89 percent
of the Stuttgart, Germany-based automaker.  SAIC Motor Corp.  Ltd. may also buy some stock in GM. The
Shanghai-based automaker is one of GM’s partners in China. The
Treasury Department is willing to sell the company at most
1 percent of GM, two people said.  Sales Tide  GM is still planning a November IPO, said the people. The
company has not committed to a date and may delay if demand for
shares were to falter.  Even in a tough market, GM’s IPO should generate plenty of
interest, said  David Whiston , equity analyst with Morningstar
Inc., a Chicago-based investment research firm. Auto sales in
the U.S. appear to have bottomed out around 11.5 million
vehicles a year. Any rise in the car market bodes well for GM
stock, he said.  September sales rose to an annual rate of 11.8 million, the
highest since the federal “cash for clunkers” incentives ended
in August 2009, according to Autodata Corp.  “If you take the thesis that selling 11.5 million vehicles
is way too low, of course GM will be  minting money ,” Whiston
said. “This is a blue-chip company. There will be tons of
interest from overseas investment companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 