-- GNC Said to Seek $2 Billion Sale of Company as It Pursues IPO
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-10-05T22:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/gnc-is-said-to-seek-2-billion-sale-of-vitamin-retailer-as-ipo-prepared.html
GNC Holdings Inc. , the vitamin and
nutrition-supplement retail chain, is seeking bidders for a
possible sale of the company that may fetch about $2 billion,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are
helping GNC search for a buyer as well as prepare the
Pittsburgh-based company for a possible initial public offering,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private. The sale process, which began in recent weeks, is
in the early stages, they said.  Bright Food Group Co. , one of China’s largest food and
dairy producers, is among companies that expressed interest in
GNC and signed a confidentiality agreement, the people said. GNC
and Shanghai-based Bright Food agreed this year to form a joint
venture that will help GNC enter the Chinese market. GNC has
more than 7,100 stores globally, adding about 400 in the past
year while other retailers closed locations or limited growth.  The company, which sells store-brand vitamins and Muscle
Milk protein mix, is pursuing a sale as concern about a
faltering economic recovery leads companies to withdraw or
postpone IPO plans. Last week, the chain filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission for a $350 million share
sale. Goldman and JPMorgan are underwriting the offering.  Spokeswomen for Goldman and JPMorgan declined to comment.
Greg Miller, a spokesman for GNC, and  Jimmy Kiang , a financial
adviser to Bright Food, also declined to comment.  GNC Owners  “GNC has had problems in the past with completing other
transactions,”  George Van Horn , a Chicago-based analyst with
market research firm IBISWorld Inc. said in a telephone
interview. Van Horn cited earnings volatility and increased
competition in the nutritional industry as other potential
hurdles. “Finding a price that keeps the buyer and seller happy
could be difficult,” he said.  Ares Management LLC and the investment arm of the Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan bought GNC in 2007 for $1.65 billion from
private-equity fund  Apollo Management LP . Apollo twice tried to
take GNC public and withdrew its plans amid faltering sales and
unfavorable market conditions.  GNC advisers have also reached out to private-equity funds
to gauge their interest in buying the company, the people with
knowledge of the matter said.  This year, almost 50 companies have delayed or withdrawn
IPOs in the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Liberty Mutual Agency Corp. was among the most recent,
postponing the largest IPO of 2010 because demand was less than
the company had projected. The Boston-based insurer was seeking
to raise almost $1.3 billion.  Industry Sales  Bright Food is looking at acquisitions that will expand its
sales outside of China and said last month it is in talks about
a possible takeover of the U.K.’s United Biscuits from
Blackstone Group and PAI Partners. Bright Food was outbid in
July for Australian sugar refiner CSR Ltd.  GNC was founded in 1935 as General Nutrition Companies. It
was a publicly traded company until 1999 and has since had
owners including private-equity funds and Royal Numico NV. The
chain’s largest market outside the U.S. is Mexico, where it has
352 stores.  GNC’s sales may be hurt if any of the products it makes or
sells are recalled or the subject of negative publicity,
according to the SEC filing. In May 2009, the Food and Drug
Administration warned consumers to stop using Hydroxycut diet
products, which accounted for almost 5 percent of GNC sales in
2008. The company stopped selling them. Previously, the company
halted sales of products containing ephedra after an FDA ban.  GNC’s net income rose to $51.1 million in the first six
months of the year from $37.4 million in the same period a year
earlier, according to the company’s SEC filing. Revenue
increased 5.5 percent to $920.7 million. In all of 2009, GNC
posted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of $227.7 million on revenue of $1.71 billion.  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 