-- Goldman's O'Neill Says Japan May Intervene Again if Yen Above 82 to Dollar
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   D e i r d r e   B o l t o n
-- 2010-10-05T12:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/goldman-s-o-neill-says-japan-may-intervene-again-if-yen-above-82-to-dollar.html
The Bank of Japan may intervene in
currency markets should the yen strengthen to more than 82 per
dollar, according to  Jim O’Neill , chairman of  Goldman Sachs 
Asset Management.  “I think if the yen were to strengthen above 82 for
example, even if it were in the next couple of days, I think
they probably would intervene,” O’Neill said in an interview
with  Deirdre Bolton  and  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s
‘InsideTrack’ today. “The case for intervention to weaken the
yen is actually quite strong.”  The yen fell against the majority of its most-traded
counterparts today after the Bank of Japan cut its  benchmark
interest rate  and increased purchases of bonds to combat
deflation and stimulate the economy. The currency’s rally to a
15-year high of 82.88 per dollar on Sept. 15 spurred Japan to
weaken the currency and help exporters for the first time since
2004. The yen was at 83.31 as of 12:36 p.m. in London.  “What they’ve done this morning is something that should
be happening -- they probably should’ve done it earlier -- and I
think they should do more to stop the yen’s strength,”  O’Neill 
said. “I’m pretty sure at some stage we will” see more
currency intervention by Japan, he said.  The Bank of Japan’s decision to create a fund to buy bonds
and other assets comes as policy makers in the U.S. and the U.K.
consider similar steps to support their flagging economies. At
the same time, governments in emerging markets from Brazil to
South Korea are increasing currency controls as investment
inflows threaten export growth.  Washington Meetings  “We’re going to see some interesting focus on that” at
the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the
World Bank in Washington on Oct. 8-10, O’Neill said. “Some
countries clearly have currencies that are too strong and some
kind of interventional activity to stop it is justified. I would
include, even though the circumstances are very different, both
Brazil, Japan and maybe even Switzerland in that category.”  The “excessively strong yen” is partly due to the U.S.
Federal Reserve “being so aggressive” in its monetary policy,
O’Neill said. The Fed has made it “pretty clear” that
officials will extend quantitative-easing measures at the next
Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Nov. 3, he said.  “If the Fed sticks with the strategy it looks like its
adopting, the dollar is going to be under pressure further
against many currencies all over the world,” O’Neill said.
“It’s not a bad strategy seen from a U.S. perspective, but of
course it puts challenges on other countries.”  O’Neill also said it was less likely that the central banks
in the U.K. and on mainland Europe would loosen monetary policy
“in the near term” because the economic need is not as strong
as in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deirdre Bolton in New York at 
 dbolton@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  