-- Hatzius Says Fed Easing Measures Will Probably `Fall Short'
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-05T18:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/goldman-s-hatzius-says-fed-s-easing-measures-will-probably-fall-short-.html
Jan Hatzius , chief U.S. economist at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc , said that while the Federal Reserve
will “very likely” take more steps to ease monetary policy,
asset purchases will have a limited effect on the economy.  “They’re going to do quite a lot but it’s probably still
going to fall short,” Hatzius said today at a fiscal policy
conference in Washington. “There is going to be a natural bias
towards caution among monetary policy makers.”  Hatzius, who’s based in New York, said another $1 trillion
worth of asset purchases by the Fed would probably lower long-
term interest rates by about 0.25 percentage point, adding a
“few tenths of additional GDP growth.” The  Fed  bought $1.7
trillion worth of Treasury and mortgage debt in a program that
ended in March. The purchases helped push  mortgage rates  to
historic lows, stabilizing housing.  New York Fed Bank President  William Dudley  on Oct. 1 said
the Fed would probably need to take action to spur the recovery
and avert deflation, one of the clearest signs policy makers
would start a second round of unconventional monetary easing as
soon as the central bankers’ next meeting Nov. 2-3.  Dudley, who serves as vice chairman of the Fed’s policy
making Open Market Committee, said in last week’s speech that
$500 billion of asset purchases, for example, would add as much
stimulus as reducing the Fed’s benchmark rate 0.5 percentage
point to 0.75 percentage point, depending on how long investors
expect the Fed to hold the assets.  Hatzius, 41, said his two scenarios for the U.S. economy
were “pretty bad” and “very bad.”  10% Unemployment  The economy will grow between 1 percent and 2 percent
through early next year, with unemployment drifting up “to
somewhere around 10 percent, maybe a little above 10 percent,”
he said. In August, the jobless rate was 9.6 percent, close to
the 26-year high of 10.1 percent reached in October 2009.  “It’s going to take many years before you get back to
anything approaching full unemployment, and 2014 is very likely
too early,” said Hatzius.  He placed the odds of a renewed recession at 25 percent to
30 percent, which he told reporters was up from 15 percent to 20
percent at the beginning of the year. The double-dip recession
scenario was based on a renewed decline in housing prices and
failure to extend most of former President George W. Bush’s tax
cuts when they expire at the end of this year.  Hatzius was rated by Bloomberg Markets Magazine last year
as top forecaster of the U.S. economy for the period spanning
the second half of 2008 through the first six months of 2009. He
and his team were also No. 1 in forecasting GDP and No. 2 in
estimating unemployment and Federal Reserve changes to the fed
funds rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  