-- U.K. Seeks Savings by Rewriting BAE, Rolls-Royce Contract Rules
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-05T12:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/government-seeks-savings-by-rewriting-bae-rolls-royce-rules-for-contracts.html
The U.K. government plans to
renegotiate 42-year-old rules governing contracts with defense
suppliers including  BAE Systems Plc  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  to
save millions of pounds to help cut a record budget deficit.  Companies such as BAE, which builds Astute class
submarines, and  Finmeccanica SpA ’s AgustaWestland unit, which
makes Merlin helicopters, may no longer be able to charge the
government for part of their office running costs, as they can
now under guidelines drawn up in 1968, the minister in charge of
defense procurement,  Peter Luff , said today.  “It’s a cosy relationship that’s 42 years out of date and
ripe for reform,” Luff said in an interview in Birmingham,
central England, where he is attending the Conservative Party’s
annual conference. “It should have been reviewed much sooner.”  Luff said he wants a “modern commercial relationship”
with suppliers. That will require an updating of the “Yellow
Book” of rules that sets out the government’s relationship with
companies that produce equipment vital to the U.K.’s security.
Other companies affected include  European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. , Thales SA, and QinetiQ Group Plc.  The U.K. currently contributes funds to subsidize the
management of some defense companies, overheads such as
depreciation and pensions, redundancy payments and research and
development. This subsidy will be reviewed, Luff said.  ‘Value for Money’  “Here is another way in which we can drive down the cost
of the  Ministry of Defence ’s contractual relationship and
provide value for money for the taxpayer, but it will take some
time to deliver,” Luff said, adding he thought the
renegotiation process would take around 18 months.  The government will announce in two weeks’ time the
results of the first review of U.K. defense capabilities since
1998, and the ministry wants suppliers to work with it to cut
costs. Companies supplying equipment to the armed forces are
likely to find out within weeks whether weapons programs will go
ahead or be scrapped.  The defense ministry invited 11 of its top suppliers,
including London-based BAE, Rolls-Royce and QinetiQ,  Lockheed
Martin Corp.  of the U.S. and Italy’s Finmeccanica, to hold cost-
saving discussions following the May 6 election that brought a
coalition of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats to power.  Of those invited, only Rolls-Royce refused to take part,
Luff said.  “To have had the exchange would have been helpful, and I
think Rolls-Royce recognise their mistake and I look forward to
engaging with them constantly during the Yellow Book review
period,” Luff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 