-- Green Mountain Involved in Federal Patent, Accounting Suits Over Keurig
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2010-10-05T21:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/green-mountain-involved-in-federal-patent-accounting-suits-over-keurig.html
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. ,
the seller of Keurig single-cup brewers, is involved in two
federal lawsuits filed this month, one over claims of accounting
irregularities and the other accusing a rival of patent
infringement.  A  shareholder , Daniel Himmel, sued some officers and
directors yesterday in federal court in Burlington, Vermont,
alleging violation of duties and waste of corporate assets.
Green Mountain disclosed Sept. 28 that an accounting error had
led to an investigation by the  U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission . The  shares  fell 16 percent the next day.  Himmel seeks a jury trial, restitution of some officials’
stock profits to the Waterbury, Vermont-based company, and
improvements in corporate governance and accounting.  In the patent case, Green Mountain’s Keurig unit, based in
Reading, Massachusetts, on Oct. 1 sued Sturm Foods Inc., a
Manawa, Wisconsin-based unit of  TreeHouse Foods Inc.  Keurig
alleges Sturm is violating two U.S. patents by marketing single-
serving brewing cups.  “Keurig has not authorized Sturm to use its Keurig mark,”
company lawyers contend in papers filed in federal court in
Wilmington, Delaware. “Keurig has been damaged by such conduct
in an amount to be determined at trial.”  ‘Not Infringing’  “Sturm is not infringing or causing infringement of Green
Mountain Keurig’s or anyone else’s patents,” Ron Bottrell, a
spokesman for Sturm Foods, said in a telephone interview. “It
is Sturm Foods’ policy to take care to respect the legitimate
intellectual property rights of others.”  Sandy Yusen , a spokeswoman for Green Mountain’s specialty-
coffee unit, said the company “cannot comment on pending
litigation.”  Green Mountain rose 93 cents to $29.34 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading at 4:29 p.m. New York time. TreeHouse, based in
Westchester, Illinois, gained $1.21 to $46.81 on the New York
Stock Exchange.  The cases are Himmel v.  Stiller , 10CV233, U.S. District
Court, District of Vermont (Burlington); and Keurig Inc. v.
Sturm Foods Inc., 10CV841, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at    drovella@bloomberg.net . 