-- Televisa Gains on Plan to Invest in U.S. Broadcaster Univision
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-10-05T20:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/groupo-televisa-announces-1-2-billion-purchase-of-5-univision-stake.html
Grupo Televisa SA , the world’s
largest Spanish-language broadcaster, gained the most in almost
two years in Mexico trading after agreeing to buy as much as 35
percent of  Univision Communications Inc.  to expand in the U.S.  The $1.2 billion investment will include a 5 percent stake
and debt that can be converted into a stake of up to 30 percent
of Univision, the companies said today in a statement. Televisa
also has an option to buy an additional 5 percent of the closely
held U.S. broadcaster after three years.  The deal may help Mexico City-based Televisa add viewers
for its Mexican-made programs, including prime-time soap operas
known as telenovelas, in a market where  Hispanics  make up about
16 percent of the country’s 307 million people, according to the
U.S. Census Bureau’s 2009 estimate. Televisa is investing in a
broadcaster whose liabilities exceeded its assets by  $1.6
billion  as of June.  The agreement gives Univision the right to show Televisa’s
programs on digital pay-TV services and on the Internet,
providing both companies with new ways to earn revenue in the
U.S. The companies had battled over those rights in U.S. court,
with Univision winning a ruling in 2009 that barred Televisa
from distributing the content online in the U.S.  “Video on demand, mobile, all the platforms we did not
have will help in increasing sales,” Televisa Executive Vice
President  Alfonso de Angoitia  said in a phone interview today.  Televisa  rose 12 percent to 53.61 pesos at 4 p.m. New York
time in Mexico City trading, the most since October 2008. The
shares have lost 1.1 percent this year compared with a 6.7
percent advance for the benchmark Mexican IPC index.  Higher Royalties  Televisa is seeking acquisitions in production and
distribution, Chief Executive Officer  Emilio Azcarraga  said in
May, after  profit in 2009  slumped to a five-year low.  The Univision agreement increases the royalty payments
Televisa receives for programs it licenses to the U.S.
broadcaster. The royalties will amount to 11.91 percent of
Univision’s audiovisual and interactive revenue until 2017, and
jump further to 16.22 percent after that. Univision currently
pays 9.36 percent of its TV revenue to Televisa. For 2011, the
agreement will add $50 million to the royalties Televisa expects
to receive, de Angoitia said.  An agreement giving Univision, owner of the most-watched
Spanish network in the U.S., access to Televisa programming will
be extended to 2020 from 2017, with the possibility of a five-
year extension beyond 2020. Univision will also be able to air
more Mexican soccer games.  “It’s simply a marriage made in heaven where one plus one
equals not three, but four,” Univision Chairman  Haim Saban  said
in a phone interview. His Saban Capital Group is an investor in
the company. “We now have the No. 1 creator of Spanish language
content in the world supplying us with the best content we could
possibly find anywhere.”  ‘Woman of Steel’  Univision Network reaches 95 percent of U.S. Hispanic
households, according to a BusinessWire press release last
month. Its popular programs include “For Love or Money,” and
“Woman of Steel.”  The company had net assets of $10.6 billion compared with
liabilities of $12.2 billion as of June 30, according to its
website. Univision has a “highly leveraged capital structure”
including $8.6 billion in debt maturing in 2014, Standard &
Poor’s said in a July report.  Univision must refinance $3.25 billion of debt as part of
the deal, Televisa’s de Angoitia said.  The agreement shows that all major stakeholders -- private-
equity owners, lenders and Televisa -- are “all aligned to see
Univision survive and succeed,” said  Mike Simonton , a debt
analyst with Fitch Ratings in Chicago.  Stronger Balance Sheet  “The company still needs to execute a sizeable refinancing
of the 2014 term loan, but this transaction better positions
them to do so,” Simonton said in an e-mail.  The investment by Televisa strengthens Univision’s balance
sheet and enhances its financial flexibility, the companies
said. Three Televisa representatives will join Univision’s
board, which will increase to 20 members.  Saban said that while the balance sheet is more solid, it’s
too early to discuss changes to Univision’s financial structure.
He said he’s not looking to exit his investment in Univision.  Televisa sold an 11 percent stake in Univision for $1.09
billion in 2007 as part of the sale to the U.S. broadcaster’s
current investors. Univision was taken private in a $12.3
billion buyout in 2007 by Madison Dearborn Partners LLC,
Providence Equity Partners Inc., Texas Pacific Group, Thomas H.
Lee Partners LP and billionaire  Saban .  Televisa’s  net income  fell 23 percent last year to 6
billion pesos ($479 million), according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the lowest since the year ended December 2004.  The Univision pact has no effect on Televisa’s February
agreement to buy a 30 percent stake in NII Holdings Inc.’s
Mexico unit for $1.44 billion, de Angoitia said. The companies
are reviewing the closing conditions for that agreement, which
would give Televisa entry into Mexico’s mobile-phone business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  