-- Gundlach Sees `No Normal' While Beating Bill Gross Since 1995
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-10-05T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/gundlach-only-fund-beating-pimco-total-return-shows-why-there-s-no-normal.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , the lone bond
manager to beat  Bill Gross  in the past 5, 10 and 15 years, said
there won’t be any “new normal” to guide investors until
policy makers repair the damage caused by the financial crisis.  “I think ‘no normal’ is a good phrase, as opposed to ‘new
normal,’ ” Gundlach, chief executive officer of DoubleLine
Capital LP, said during an interview in his office in Los
Angeles. “Some major policy shift has to happen that will turn
everything on its ear. So this idea that we’ll go into some
quasi-similar paradigm, some sort of new thing -- no way.”  Gross and  Mohamed El-Erian , co-chief investment officers at
Pacific Investment Management Co., use “new normal” as
shorthand for their forecast that the U.S. will endure below-
average economic growth of 2 percent or less for the next three
to five years and  unemployment  peaking at 10.5 percent to 11
percent, from 9.6 percent in August. It’s entered the Wall
Street lexicon to describe a post-crisis world in which the U.S.
and Europe no longer offer the best investment prospects.  Gundlach, who until December managed the top-ranked  TCW
Total Return Bond Fund , doesn’t disagree with Pimco’s outlook.
His point is that “new normal” fails to recognize that all
previous economic and investment assumptions have been
permanently altered by the financial crisis.  “Massive” policy changes will be required to bolster the
economy and cut the  U.S. budget deficit , projected to be at
about $1.47 trillion, Gundlach said. The timing and nature of
the potential regulatory changes are unpredictable, causing him
to shorten the length of time he holds investments.  Tax Increases  “You cannot go on with these policies for too very long,”
said Gundlach, 50. “The problem is the debt burden is very high
to begin with and it’s growing fast.”  The U.S. government will have to increase tax rates, now at
historic lows, as it tries to reduce its budget deficit,
Gundlach said. It will also have to wean itself from borrowing
money to stimulate the economy, he said.  Pimco developed the concept of “new normal” about a year-
and-a-half ago as an “attempt to move the general thinking
beyond the notion that the crisis was a mere flesh wound, easily
healed with time,” El-Erian, 52, said in an interview.  “The crisis cut to the bone, resulting from an
extraordinary, multiyear period of debt and credit entitlement
which was anything but normal,” he said.  New normal was less about what should happen than “what
was likely to happen given our analysis of national and global
factors,” El-Erian said.  ‘Old Cyclicality’  In an April speech at Princeton University in New Jersey,
 Christina Romer , then head of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, said she found the fatalism of the new normal
distressing. She said that shorter-term cyclical events such as
the decline in demand for goods and services were the real drag
on job creation.  “Unemployment is high fundamentally because the economy is
producing dramatically below its capacity,” Romer said. “That
is, far from being the new normal, it is the old cyclical.”  In September, as she exited the Obama administration, Romer
said she had underestimated the severity of job cuts and that
this “has not been a normal recession.”  Gundlach managed the TCW Total Return Bond Fund until Dec.
4, when he was ousted as chief investment officer of TCW Group
Inc. after the company accused him of planning to start his own
investment firm. Gundlach said he was fired to reduce expenses.  Co-manager  Philip Barach  and more than 40 members of
Gundlach’s team followed him to DoubleLine, which started three
fixed-income mutual funds and plans an exchange-traded fund
focusing on emerging-market bonds. Assets in  DoubleLine Total
Return Bond Fund , run by Gundlach and Barach, have grown to $2.7
billion since its inception on April 6, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Top Returns  TCW Total Return  under Gundlach averaged gains of 7.5
percent in the five years ended Dec. 4, topping Pimco Total
Return Fund, which rose 7 percent in the same period. The TCW
fund also beat Gross in the 10- and 15-year periods. He’s the
only intermediate-term bond manager to post higher returns than
Gross, 66, in each of the three periods, according to Chicago-
based Morningstar Inc.  Pimco Total Return is the world’s largest mutual fund, with
$252 billion in assets.  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund has increased 15 percent
from inception through Oct. 4, compared with 7.3 percent by
Pimco Total Return, Bloomberg data show.  Gundlach, who is known for his expertise in mortgage-backed
securities, was early to spot signs of trouble in the U.S.
property market, and by August 2006 he had started a distressed
real-estate fund to take advantage of declining prices. He
correctly called an end to the five-year property boom and said
falling real-estate prices would weaken the U.S. economy.  ‘Wunderkind’  “He is considered a wunderkind in the bond-fund world,”
 Jeff Tjornehoj , a senior research analyst at fund researcher
Lipper in Denver, said in an interview. “He’s not as well-known
as Gross, but he’s well-respected, and part of that reputation
comes from being at the right place at the right time.”  Gundlach wasn’t immune to fallout from the subprime-
mortgage collapse, investing in securities that lost value
during the crisis. Under Gundlach, TCW became the biggest
manager of collateralized-debt obligations, with $41.3 billion
under management as of Sept. 30, 2007, according to data from
Standard & Poor’s. Gundlach has said his CDOs got out of high-
risk home loans early in the credit crisis and missed the worst
of the losses from those securities.  Debt Burden  Confidence in financial markets collapsed in 2008 after the
debt securities derived from defaulted properties -- many of
which were purchased with subprime loans -- became so toxic that
credit dried up for companies and individuals. The bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and ensuing panic-selling of all
but the safest government bills and bonds prompted an
unprecedented $1.49 trillion rescue of banks and the economy,
now recovering from the worst recession since the Great
Depression.  The economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual rate during the
second quarter, compared with 3.7 percent in the first three
months of the year, according to government data.  “The GDP isn’t really growing now, counting all this debt
that is being used to prop up consumption over the short term,”
Gundlach said.  That the stock market hasn’t declined this year amid
predictions of a global economic slowdown and the debt crisis in
Europe is “impressive” and signals demand from investors
looking for higher returns as interest rates have hovered near
zero for the last two years, Gundlach said.  Less Bearish  The  MSCI AC World Index  has climbed 1.8 percent this year,
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has advanced 2 percent.  Gundlach said he is less bearish on the market than he was
in 2006 and 2007, largely because he was worried about the
solvency of the nation’s banks and because securities were
“egregiously overvalued.”  The S&P 500 peaked at 1,565.15 in
October 2007, falling to a low of 676.53 in March 2009.  Investor demand for dividend-paying stocks bears the
hallmarks of the next investment “disaster,” he said.  “People that think dividend-paying stocks are a good bond
surrogate are greatly mismatching the risk,” he said. “This
has the characteristics of something that could potentially be a
debacle.”  Gundlach said equities haven’t declined enough to be
attractive investments, especially shares of investment banks
such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  He compared bank stocks to
those of airlines, as they haven’t made money for investors over
the long term. In the past five years,  airline stocks  fell at an
annual rate of 4.9 percent, compared with a decline of 11
percent for financial stocks.  “Banks and investment banks are horrible investments at the
top of a debt cycle,” Gundlach said.  Treasuries, Mortgages  As concerns over regulation and the economy have increased,
Gundlach said he’s investing in government bonds as well as
mortgage-backed securities that will do well as they rebound
from deeply discounted values. DoubleLine’s funds, including the
Core Fixed Income Fund, haven’t completely sold holdings in 10-
year Treasuries, which have the potential to do “reasonably
well” in a weak economy where interest rates are low, Gundlach
said. The securities can hold up in the event of deflation,
which Gundlach said is a possibility.  The funds are also invested in non-guaranteed mortgage
securities that Gundlach and his team believe are trading below
what they are worth. These bonds, if purchased at the correct
valuation, aren’t sensitive to interest-rate increases and
inflation, or rising prices.  “It’s the ultimate inflation hedge,” Gundlach said.  Suit, Countersuit  In the past couple of months, DoubleLine also bought below
investment-grade corporate bonds because they will be in favor
for at least a year and yields are 7 percent to 8 percent.
Gundlach doesn’t like junk bonds in the long term because there
is risk of default, he said.  Gundlach, who joined TCW in 1985 as a quantitative analyst,
later became a fund manager and was named chief investment
officer of the Los Angeles-based company in 2005. TCW fired him
last year, saying that Gundlach had threatened to leave and take
key employees with him. Gundlach said he was dismissed so the
company could cut costs.  TCW sued Gundlach and three other former employees in
January, alleging they secretly downloaded proprietary
information that was used to form DoubleLine. Gundlach has sued
TCW, claiming he is owed as much as $1.25 billion in anticipated
fee income, and said the allegations that he used information
from TCW are untrue.  Oaktree’s Support  Assets in TCW Total Return, now managed by a team overseen
by  Tad Rivelle , have fallen by more than half to $5.3 billion
since Gundlach’s departure. It has returned an average of 8.7
percent over the past five years.  DoubleLine started with backing from  Howard Marks ’s Oaktree
Capital Management LP, a Los Angeles-based firm that focuses on
high-yield and distressed debt. DoubleLine Total Return Fund had
the fastest start for a mutual fund, according to Morningstar.
It took 16 years for the TCW Total Return Bond Fund to reach $2
billion in assets under management, Gundlach said.  DoubleLine’s assets under management have risen to $5.5
billion, helping the firm turn profitable, according to
Gundlach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  