-- ICICI Said to Hire Banks to Sell $1 Billion of Bonds
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-10-05T10:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/icici-said-to-plan-selling-1-billion-of-debt-maturing-between-5-10-years.html
ICICI Bank Ltd ., India’s second-
largest lender by market value, hired three banks to help it
raise as much as $1 billion from a bond sale, according to three
people familiar with the matter.  Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG will
help Mumbai-based  ICICI  sell bonds with maturities of between
five and 10 years as soon as this month, said the people, who
asked not to be identified as the plan is private.  “For a bank, raising bonds is like raising deposits,”
 Apurva Shah , head of research at brokerage Prabhudas Lilladher
Pvt., said in a phone interview from Mumbai. “They shouldn’t
have a problem finding demand.”  ICICI  expects total loan growth of 15 percent for the year
ending March 31 as companies and consumers borrow more, Chief
Executive Officer  Chanda Kochhar  said July 31. The bank’s first-
quarter profit rose 17 percent to 10.3 billion rupees ($231
million) as it cut provisions and increased fee income.  Indian companies raised $4.5 billion from international
bonds this year, more than double the amount from 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank  ranks
first in arranging sales, followed by HSBC Holdings Plc,
Citigroup and Barclays.  Fund Raising  ICICI has no “immediate” plan to issue bonds, spokesman
 Charudatta Deshpande  said in an e-mailed response to questions
from Bloomberg News. The bank “has an ongoing fund raising
program and “accesses the debt capital market from time to
time,” he said.  Citigroup spokesman  Debasis Ghosh  and Deutsche Bank
spokesman Linus Chettiar in Mumbai declined to comment. Barclays
Capital’s Hong Kong-based spokesman  Timothy Cuffe  also declined
to comment.  Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s largest company by market
value, plans to raise at least $1 billion from a sale of 10- and
30-year bonds in dollars, according to a person familiar with
the matter. That sale, to refinance acquisitions and fund
investments, would be India’s largest dollar sale by a non-bank
business, Bloomberg data show.  ICICI  sold $500 million of 5 1/2-year bonds denominated in
dollars in July, according to Bloomberg data. Spreads on the 5
percent notes due January 2016 widened 15 basis points to 296
basis points today, the highest in almost five weeks, according
to Royal Bank of Scotland Plc prices.  The Indian lender’s shares are among the best-performing
this year on the benchmark  Sensex index , and have gained 31
percent compared with a 17 percent rise in the benchmark.  ICICI and local peers may grow to 2.5 times their size in
five years as economic growth accelerates in India, Kochhar told
Bloomberg in July. India’s economy may expand 9.4 percent in the
year ending March 31, the fastest pace since 2007, the
International Monetary Fund said in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net 
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  