-- Illinois Pays More Than Mexico as Cash-Strapped States Sell Bonds Overseas
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-10-05T19:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/illinois-pays-more-than-mexico-as-cash-strapped-states-sell-bonds-overseas.html
Illinois capital-markets director
 John Sinsheimer  and  Citigroup Inc.  bankers took a globe-girdling
trip from the U.K. to China in June to persuade investors that
the state’s $900 million of Build America Bonds were a bargain.  The seven-country visit worked. The state sold one-fifth of
the federally subsidized  securities abroad  the next month,
tapping investors who are the fastest-growing source of borrowed
cash for U.S. municipalities. Illinois, with the lowest credit
rating of any state from Moody’s Investors Service, dangled
yields higher than Mexico, which defaulted on debt in 1982, and
Portugal, which costs more to insure against missed payments.  “U.S. states are among the cheapest sovereign credits in
the world,” said  Patrick Brett , a Citigroup banker who marketed
the Illinois securities overseas. “You’re actually picking up a
good amount of spread for arguably better credits relative to
equivalently rated corporates and sovereigns.”  International ownership of U.S. municipal bonds jumped 37
percent in the first half of the year from the end of 2009 to
$83 billion, a Sept. 17 Federal Reserve report shows. Spurring
the growth are Build America Bonds, created by President  Barack Obama ’s economic stimulus program to finance public-works
projects. More than $140 billion of the debt has been sold in
the 17-month-old market. About a quarter may have been bought
overseas through June, said  Matt Fabian , an analyst with
Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors Inc.  “The more types of investors you have, the better the
overall market,” said Fabian, based in Westport, Connecticut.  New York Sale  New York City Comptroller  John Liu  is following Sinsheimer
overseas. He’ll visit London and Zurich this week, accompanied
by a  Bank of America Corp.  executive, to boost investor demand -
- and lower borrowing costs -- for $650 million of Build
Americas the city is selling.  “These investors can select any bond anywhere at any
time,” Deputy Comptroller  Eric Eve  said in a telephone
interview. “You really have to show up to get investors
interested in your credit.”  To make it cheaper for localities to borrow, the Treasury
pays 35 percent of the interest cost of Build Americas, whose
30-year yields were about  1.4 percentage points higher  than top-
rated tax-exempt bonds yesterday, according to Wells Fargo & Co.
and Municipal Market Advisors indexes. Build America interest
payments are subject to federal taxes, unlike traditional
municipals, whose tax-exempt yields aren’t a lure for investors
abroad.  Typical Sales Pitch  Selling Build Americas overseas has become typical since
the first issue in April 2009, said  Brian Mayhew , chief
financial officer of the Bay Area Toll Authority in Oakland,
California. His agency sold $2.8 billion of the debt in 2009 and
2010 for a new bridge across San Francisco Bay, with about $130
million going internationally, he said.  “Every marketing plan included discussing things between
Asian and European investors,” Mayhew said of his sales.  Drawing overseas buyers are yields pushed up by concern
about U.S. state budget deficits and pension-fund shortfalls
spawned by the recent recession. While no state has defaulted
since the Great Depression, Build America yields exceed those of
countries with worse financial legacies.  California  A taxable California bond maturing in 2040 traded yesterday
to yield 6.9 percent. That was 1.72 percentage points more than
similar bonds from Mexico, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Portugal, whose long-term credit rating was cut in
April by Standard & Poor’s, yielded 6.2 percent yesterday on
bonds due in 2037, 69 points less than California. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  “The market continues to misprice municipals,” said  Gary Pollack , who helps oversee $12 billion as a managing director of
fixed income in New York for the wealth-management unit of
 Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest bank.  The Frankfurt-based company has bought Build America Bonds
for overseas individuals and institutions, he said.  “It’s a high yield in a new asset class that offers great
diversification,” said Pollack, who wouldn’t say how much he
bought for clients.  UBI Pramerica SGR SpA, a Milan-based fund manager, was
among buyers of 40-year Build Americas sold by the Bay Area Toll
Authority in 2009, according to Bloomberg data. Skandia Global
Funds Plc, a unit of London-based  Old Mutual Plc , bought similar
bonds from the Los Angeles Unified School District, the data
show. The  Julius Baer Multibond-Dollar Fund  in Luxembourg
purchased New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority debt.  No Comments  Emilio Franco , chief investment officer at UBI Pramerica,
didn’t return messages requesting comment. Skandia spokesman
John Morgan said the fund that holds the bonds is run by Pacific
Investment Management Co.  Paul McCulley , a managing director at
Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Lynn Chen  and  Donald Quigley  in New York,
listed as managers of the Julius Baer fund, didn’t respond.  The influx of overseas cash, which is also buying U.S.
Treasuries and supporting a $1.3 trillion federal budget
deficit, is benefitting all state and local government debt.  An index of  10-year AAA  tax-exempt bond yields fell to 2.6
percent on Aug. 25, the lowest since the Municipal Market
Advisors gauge began in January 2001. The  average  Build America
yield was 5.5 percent yesterday, 1.8 percentage points more than
30-year Treasuries. In July, when Illinois sold its $900 million
issue,  the difference  reached 2.1 percentage points.  “They’ve been a good investment and they have very high
coupons,” Municipal Market Advisors’ Fabian said at the time of
the Fed’s report. “As an investor, what’s not to like?”  Strains at Home  Illinois turned overseas amid financial strains at home.
With California, it has the lowest credit rating of any state
from Moody’s, which put $25 billion of general-obligation bonds
on negative outlook on Sept. 23. That indicates Moody’s may
again cut the state’s A1 rating, the fifth-highest grade, after
a one-level reduction June 4.  The  state’s budget  deficit almost tripled in 2009 to $7.7
billion, Moody’s said. Its pension fund had assets to cover just
50.6 percent of promised benefits last year, the lowest so-
called funded ratio of any state in data compiled by Bloomberg.  Going abroad saved Illinois about $30 million because of
appetite for its debt there, said Sinsheimer, the capital-
markets director, based on where final yields were set compared
with initial expectations. The state paid a top yield of 7.35
percent on the 25-year debt in the July sale, more than the 20-
year yield of Peru, which didn’t exceed 7.1 percent in the
month.  “There was a feeling that the Build America Bond product
was particularly of interest overseas,” said Sinsheimer. He
wouldn’t identify any buyers.  Marketing Drawbacks  The international market has drawbacks, said Mayhew at the
Bay Area Toll Authority. Overseas investors unfamiliar with
municipal debt were rattled by speculation this year that
plunging state and local tax collections in the longest
recession since the 1930s would trigger defaults, he said.  “The taxable buyer was very spooked at the time,” said
Mayhew.  Whether overseas demand continues depends on the U.S.
Senate, where efforts to keep the Build America program alive
after its scheduled expiration in December have stalled amid
concern about costs. The Treasury doesn’t collect taxes on bond
income earned abroad, adding expense to a program that’s set to
pay out $36 billion of subsidies in the 10 years from its 2009
creation, according to the  Congressional Budget Office.   Some international investors have lingered on the sidelines
while the program’s fate is debated, said  Brian Wynne , head of
the municipal underwriting syndicate for Morgan Stanley in New
York.  Meanwhile,  Morgan Stanley  put a member of its municipal
underwriting team in London to reach buyers abroad, he said.  “We think it has huge potential,” Wynne said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  