-- Tin Rises to Record in London on Shrinking Stockpiles, Supply Disruptions
-- B y   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-10-05T10:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/tin-rises-to-record-in-london-on-shrinking-stockpiles-supply-disruptions.html
Tin rose to a record in London
as declining stockpiles and mining disruptions heightened
speculation that supplies won’t be adequate for demand.  Stockpiles  tracked by the London Metal Exchange have
dropped 53 percent this year, according to LME data. Tin exports
from Indonesia, the biggest exporter, for the first eight months
this year fell to 60,107 metric tons from 67,797.54 tons a year
earlier, the Ministry of Trade in Jakarta said on Sept. 22.  “The tin market is currently characterized by quite
dramatic supply problems, especially in Indonesia,” Daniel
Briesemann, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said.  Tin for three-month delivery on the LME gained as much as
$600, or 2.4 percent, to $25,800 a ton. The metal was up 1.8
percent at $25,650 by 11:32 a.m. local time. The previous record
was $25,500 a ton in May 2008.  Tin has climbed 51 percent this year, the most of the main
six metals on the LME and the first to advance to a record since
the global recession. It’s mainly used to solder other metals
together. Demand outpaced supply by 9,900 tons for the first
seven months this year, according to the World Bureau of Metal
Statistics.  Production in China, the world’s largest producer, may be
restricted through the end of the year because of limitations on
power, tin industry group ITRI Ltd. said on Sept. 29.  Bookings to remove  metal, or canceled warrants, at LME
warehouses have more than doubled this year, meaning inventories
may further decline.  Congo, Indonesia  Prices have been bolstered by disruptions to production in
the Democratic Republic of Congo and Indonesia.  “This year’s surprise came about when it became apparent
that Indonesian production was badly lagging last year’s levels
because of heavy rains,”  Edward Meir , an analyst at MF Global
Ltd. in Darien, Connecticut, said on Sept. 23. Exports may drop
19 percent to about 80,000 tons this year, Alberth Tubogu,
export director for mining and industry products at Indonesia’s
trade ministry, said on Sept. 20.  In August, shipments from Indonesia dropped to 7,974 tons
from 8,870 tons in July, the ministry said. Indonesia is the
world’s second largest producer of tin, a metal mainly used in
electrical soldering.  Local inventories in Indonesia have “largely been
depleted, especially among smaller producers, so that only a
small portion of the production shortfall can be buffered by
local inventories,” said Briesemann.  Suspension  “In other countries, too, tin production is not moving
ahead,” Briesemann said. “In Congo, the largest African tin
producer, even a general ban on mining was imposed in the
country’s tin-rich eastern provinces,” he said. The Democratic
Republic of Congo’s Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said on
Sept. 21 a mining suspension in three eastern provinces will be
upheld “until further notice.” President  Joseph Kabila 
suspended all mining operations in three eastern provinces, the
mines ministry said on Sept. 11.  Demand for tin is expected to increase 13 percent this
year, MF Global’s Meir said, citing figures from ITRI. “Because
demand remains strong we are seeing a noticeable decline in tin
inventories,” he said.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 