-- Laxman Guides India to One-Wicket Win Over Australia in First Cricket Test
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-10-05T11:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/india-beats-australia-by-1-wicket-in-series-opening-cricket-test-at-mohali.html
India beat Australia by one wicket in
the series-opening cricket Test in Mohali to go 1-0 up in the
two-match contest. It was India’s narrowest-ever win in terms of
wickets.  VVS Laxman , batting with a back injury, was top scorer,
with 73 not out, to guide India to 216-9 on the final day after
Australia set the home team 216 to win. It was the fourth-
highest successful run chase in Tests in India.  Laxman came together with  Ishant Sharma  after the hosts,
who resumed at 55-4, slumped to 124-8. Laxman reached his total
off 79 balls and added 81 off 131 balls for the ninth-wicket
with Sharma (31) after Australia closed to within two wickets of
victory.  When Sharma was dismissed, India still required 11 to win,
though Laxman and last man Pragyan Ojha held on to guide their
team to victory. The previous closest win was a two-wicket
defeat of Australia in 1964 and 2001.  “He’s a remarkable batsman,” India captain  Mahendra Singh Dhoni  said of Laxman at the presentation ceremony. “If he’s at
the crease, no matter what field you set, he’s going to score
runs. It’s a very emotional victory.”  India was on 210-9 in the final over when Ojha survived a
loud leg-before-wicket appeal and the Australians gave up four
overthrows when an attempted run-out narrowly missed the stumps
and ran to the boundary. Television replays appeared to show
that Ojha was in front of the stumps when the ball struck his
pads.  ‘One of the Best’  “It’s one of the best and one of the most exciting Test
matches I’ve ever played in, and I’ve played almost 150,”
Australia captain  Ricky Ponting  said. “Full credit to India for
fighting out the win. They outplayed us today, we weren’t quite
good enough.”  Australia was all out for 428 in its first innings, India
replying with 405. The visitors totaled 192 in their second
innings.  The victory guaranteed that India, the No. 1-ranked Test
team, will retain the Border-Gavaskar Trophy contested by the
two countries because it can’t lose the series. The second Test
starts Oct. 9 in Bangalore.  If Australia loses the two-match contest, it will fall one
place to fifth in the International Cricket Council’s rankings
and begin the Ashes series ranked lower than England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 