-- Mahindra Seeks Global Status on Trucks-to-Computing Sales Push
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-10-05T22:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/india-is-not-enough-as-mahindra-expands-family-business-to-atone-for-youth.html
Anand Mahindra , a scion of one of
India’s richest families, abandoned a youthful flirtation with
communism and cinema to work at the business he was born into.
After expanding the Indian steel and tractor maker into cars,
financial services and resorts, Mahindra’s appetite for
growth is unsated.  “There’s no reason why we can’t get into any other
business,” said the 55-year-old head of Mahindra & Mahindra
Ltd., who donated $10 million to his alma mater Harvard College
this week. “B-School was me atoning for my sins at college.”  Mahindra has tripled  sales  over five years, spurred by
rising demand in India where his flagship company gets 96
percent of  revenue . To cut its reliance on the domestic market,
 Mahindra & Mahindra  is in talks to buy South Korean automaker
Ssangyong Motor Co., plans to sell trucks in the U.S. and is
reviving  Satyam Computer Services Ltd.  after India’s biggest
corporate scandal.  “This is the next phase of the Indian growth story -- when
Indian companies go overseas,” said  Saikat Chaudhuri , who
teaches at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton business
school. “Mahindra has been a strong leader for his company.”  After studying film at Harvard, where he directed a movie
about Kumbh Mela, a gathering of millions of Hindus at the
confluence of the Ganga and Yamuna rivers in Northern India once
every four years, Mahindra took his first job selling imported
coal for Kaiser Resources in Bihar, one of India’s main mining
regions. He lasted six months.  Mafia Land  “It was mafia land,” he said. “You couldn’t go out after
dark.”  Mahindra, who supported India’s Communist Party as a
teenager, then did a yearlong stint as a management trainee at
Mahindra & Mahindra before returning to Harvard to study for an
MBA. He completed that  degree  in 1981.  When Mahindra arrived, Mahindra & Mahindra was producing
tractors and licensed copies of Willys Jeeps, largely unchanged
since World War II. He helped expand the auto range through a
venture with  Ford Motor Co.  and then by adding sport-utility
vehicles under the Mahindra brand that have made the company the
nation’s largest SUV-maker. Mahindra also helped push the
company overseas, with U.S. tractor sales beginning in 1994.  Mahindra & Mahindra is planning to challenge  Toyota Motor
Corp.  and General Motors Co. in the U.S. by introducing small
diesel pick-ups. The company has won  approval  from the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency to sell two models.  “When you are sitting on top of arguably the world’s
second-largest consumer market over the next few decades, it’s
your duty to use that advantage to become global,” he said in a
Bloomberg-UTV interview.  Mahindra & Mahindra  has jumped 38 percent this year in
Mumbai trading, giving it a market value of $9.7 billion. The
Mahindra family controls a 26 percent stake, according to the
company’s  annual report .  Regulatory Delays  Delays in winning regulatory approval means the start of
U.S. sales is about a year behind schedule. The company is also
in a legal dispute with a distributor that has further disrupted
sales, which were previously scheduled to begin in December.
Mahindra declined to comment on the automaker’s U.S. plans and
prices because of the lawsuit.  Mahindra & Mahindra will need to win customers in a U.S.
market that has slowed to an annual sales rate of 11.8 million,
according Autodata Corp. Full-year sales in 2007 totaled 16.1
million. U.S. drivers have also traditionally shunned small
trucks because they aren’t much cheaper than bigger models with
greater towing power, said  Alan Baum , an analyst for Baum &
Associates, an industry consultant in West Bloomfield, Michigan.  “If they can’t differentiate themselves because of price,
then Mahindra are going to have a hard time,” Baum said.
“Things looked a lot different for this market in 2007 than in
2010.”  India Growth  The focus on overseas expansion may mean Mahindra doesn’t
take full advantage of economic expansion in India, said  Jaap Van Der Hart  of Rotterdam-based Robeco Group NV, whose 3.7
billion euro ($5.1 billion)  Emerging Stars Equities  fund holds 2
million Mahindra & Mahindra shares, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “We would prefer to have them focus on the Indian
market,” said Van Der Hart. “Going abroad will be more
difficult for Mahindra than remaining in the Indian market.
There will be more competition and it will face problems of
being an unknown brand.”  Renault, Ssangyong  To boost its auto unit, Mahindra has this year bought out
partner Renault SA in a domestic sedan-making venture and
acquired control of Bangalore-based Reva Electric Car Co. The
company also expects to complete the acquisition of a
controlling stake in Pyeongtaek, South Korea-based  Ssangyong  by
year-end, which will widen its range and give it access to
dealers in Europe and Asia.  Mahindra & Mahindra will need to revive Ssangyong, which
sought court protection from creditors in February, 2009 under
former parent  SAIC Motor Corp. , China’s largest automaker. The
company intends to introduce as many as three new Ssangyong
models in four years to help revive sales which tumbled 62
percent last year.  “It will likely take the company quite some time to win
back customers and add new models even with Mahindra’s help,”
said Jeff Lee, a Seoul-based analyst at NH Investment &
Securities Co. “Ssangyong’s status in the domestic auto market
has weakened a lot.”  Tech Mahindra Ltd. , Mahindra & Mahindra’s computer-service
venture with BT Group Plc, has begun to turn around Satyam after
gaining control of the company with a 29.1 billion rupee
investment last year. Satyam lost customers and its  stock 
plunged after Ramalinga Raju resigned as chairman in January,
2009, saying he had overstated assets by $1 billion.  Very Calculated Risk  Mahindra called the takeover a “very calculated risk,” as
Satyam also faced potential liabilities from investor lawsuits
in the U.S., which are still to be resolved. The company, which
maintains computer systems and provides back-office support for
clients including Cisco Systems Inc. and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc ,
last week announced a smaller annual loss as it reported
earnings for the first time in two years.  “One of his great successes is the bid for Satyam,” said
 Uday Kotak , India’s 19th richest man, with a $3.4 billion
fortune, according to  Forbes . “Anand is a great risk taker and
he has an uncanny ability of vision and attention to detail at
the same time.”  Mahindra helped Kotak start a finance venture in the 1980s
that grew into  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd.  The bank now has a
market value of $8.4 billion. Mahindra is still on the  board .  Running Mahindra & Mahindra is a change of course from
Mahindra’s desires to be a film producer, which was a concern
for his father, according to George Jacob, 86, who spent his
career working for the company, rising up to become a director.  “Twenty years after he joined the group, I can only say
that his father’s worries were unfounded,” Jacob said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 