-- Indonesia Refrains From Raising Key Rate as Emerging Markets Fight Inflows
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2010-10-05T10:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/indonesia-refrains-from-raising-key-rate-as-emerging-markets-fight-inflows.html
Bank Indonesia kept borrowing costs
at a record low as slowing  inflation  gave policy makers room to
put off an interest-rate increase that could spur capital
inflows in Southeast Asia’s largest economy.  The central bank maintained its reference rate at 6.5
percent for a 14th meeting, Governor  Darmin Nasution  said in
Jakarta today. Fifteen of 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
News had expected the decision. The measure is at the lowest
level since its introduction in July 2005.  Indonesia has avoided raising interest rates this year even
as a regional rebound prompted moves by India, Malaysia, South
Korea, Thailand and Taiwan, whose benchmarks are lower. Instead,
Nasution last month ordered lenders to set aside more cash as
reserves to reduce money supply, and Deputy Governor  Hartadi Sarwono  said today using the key rate to curb inflation may
attract funds.  “Bank Indonesia’s rhetoric continues to indicate a
reluctance to hike rates as this would further widen interest-
rate differentials, attracting short-term money inflows and
complicating liquidity management,” said  Prakriti Sofat , an
economist at Barclays Capital in Singapore. Still, “we believe
the need for policy normalization remains.”  Stocks Surge  Indonesia’s accelerating economy and a benchmark interest
rate that’s higher than those of its neighbors has lured
investors into the country’s assets, pushing the main stock
index to a record close of 3,591.7 today and spurring a 5.1
percent gain in the rupiah this year.  Policy makers from Brazil to South Korea have taken steps
to cool gains in their currencies as investors pour money into
emerging and Asian markets. Brazil this week doubled a tax it
charges foreigners on investment in fixed-income securities in a
bid to stem gains in the real, while South Korea’s government
said today that banks involved in foreign-exchange transactions
will face audits.  Bank Indonesia has said it expects inflation to remain
within a range of 4 percent to 6 percent this year. The policy
rate is at a level that is consistent with the central bank
achieving its inflation target, Nasution said today, adding that
price gains may exceed 6 percent this year. Consumer prices may
rise 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent in 2012, the bank said today.  Australian Decision  “Bank Indonesia seems quite firm in upholding their view
that there is no need for a rate hike for the rest of the year
and there is little indication they will move soon,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in
Singapore. “We think they should be more proactive in anchoring
inflation expectations.”  Earlier today, Australia’s central bank unexpectedly left
its benchmark interest rate unchanged for a fifth straight month,
triggering the biggest drop in the local dollar in almost two
months. The Bank of Japan lowered its  benchmark interest rate  to
a range of zero percent to 0.1 percent, from the previous 0.1
percent target.  Central banks in Taiwan and India are still raising rates
while others such as  Malaysia  and South Korea have paused as
risks to the global economy emerge.  “The urgency of tightening monetary policy is not high at
the current juncture, but the tightening pressures may still
exist in the next several months” for Indonesia,  Ma Tieying , a
Singapore-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd., said
before today’s decision.  Close Watch  While the central bank’s view that faster inflation in the
five months through August was temporary was vindicated after
consumer prices rose at a slower pace in September, Nasution
said last week the central bank will keep a “close watch” on
emerging cost pressures.  Consumer prices rose 5.8 percent last month from a year
earlier, the Central Bureau of Statistics said Oct. 1. That
compared with a 6.44 percent gain in August and was the slowest
pace in three months.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is targeting annual
growth of 6.6 percent on average through the remainder of his
term ending in 2014. Indonesia’s consumer confidence rose in
September from August, with the index climbing 5.2 points to
85.7, according to a survey conducted by the Jakarta-based
Danareksa Research Institute.  Bank Indonesia expects the  economy  to expand 6 percent to
6.3 percent in 2010, and between 6 percent and 6.5 percent next
year, it said today. Growth may be 6.3 percent in the third
quarter, it added. Lending growth may be 24 percent this year,
from 21.2 percent as of the end of September, the central bank
said.  The  Jakarta Composite Index  has surged 42 percent this year,
boosting stocks such as lender  PT Bank Central Asia  and noodle-
maker  PT Indofood Sukses Makmur .  The central bank last month ordered lenders to set aside
more cash as reserves starting in November, a move that may
absorb 50 trillion rupiah ($5.6 billion) of excess liquidity.
Nasution said Sept. 6 he wants to avoid increasing interest
rates, counting on lending and reserve rules for banks to
contain inflation and stoke economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
 Widya Utami  in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  