-- ING Buys Most Longer-Term Debt in Year on `Benign' Inflation: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2010-10-06T08:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/ing-buys-most-longer-term-debt-in-year-on-benign-inflation-india-credit.html
Indian ventures of the world’s
biggest fund managers are buying the most  longer-term debt  in
almost a year after interest-rate increases helped slow
inflation from a 19-month high.  ING Investment Management Pvt., a Mumbai-based unit of the
largest Dutch financial services company, increased the average
maturity of its bond holdings sixfold to six years since July.
Birla Sun Life Asset Management Co., Canara Robeco Asset
Management Ltd. and DSP Blackrock made similar adjustments.
Benchmark 2020 government notes returned 1 percent in the past
month, beating the 0.3 percent for 2012 securities.  The notes rallied as the central bank forecast inflation
would slow to 6 percent from an 8.5 percent rise in wholesale
prices in August, and the government raised its cap on foreign
ownership of rupee debt by 50 percent to $30 billion. India’s
investment funds more than doubled assets in three years to $160
billion, according to the Association of Mutual Funds in India.  “Our outlook on inflation is much more benign than what it
was before,” K. Ramanathan, chief investment officer in Mumbai
at ING Investment, said in a phone interview yesterday. “We
have increased our average maturity significantly.”  The average tenor of bond funds rose to 6.55 years at the
end of August, the longest duration in 11 months, according to
New Delhi-based Value Research. A drop of one basis point in the
yield of a 10-year note will push its price up more than a
similar move in the yield on a two-year note because its
valuation needs to factor in more interest-rate payments.  Household Savings  The yield on the 7.80 percent note due May 2020 has fallen
14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, from a high of 8.08
percent on Aug. 25 to 7.94 percent today. ING predicted  10-year
yields  will fall 44 basis points to 7.5 percent by March. That
would deliver investors an annualized return of 13.7 percent.  The yield is the highest among major economies except
Brazil, where similar-maturity notes pay 11.90 percent.
Comparable securities offer 7.70 percent in Russia, 3.32 percent
in China and 2.46 percent in the U.S.  The  difference  in yields between India’s debt due in a
decade and 10-year Treasuries grew to 548 basis points from 547
yesterday. The measure, which has averaged 318 in the past 10
years, reached a two-year high of 556 on Aug. 26.  Holdings Grow  Foreign  holdings  of India’s corporate and government debt
have more than doubled in 2010 to a record $17.5 billion on Oct.
4 as yields climbed, according to the Securities and Exchange
Board of India. Accelerated investment inflows helped the rupee
strengthen 5.1 percent against the dollar in the past month, the
best performance among Asia’s 10-most traded currencies.  Local investors are also buying government debt, adding 254
billion rupees to bond funds and pulling out 76 billion rupees
from equities in the eight months through August, according to
data from the Association of Mutual Funds. Indian households’
 savings  have more than doubled in the six years ending March
2009 to 12.6 trillion rupees ($283 billon), giving citizens more
assets to invest in financial markets.  The  economy  has expanded an average of 8.5 percent in the
past five years, the second-fastest growing major economy after
China. Wholesale price inflation, which slowed for a fourth
month in August to 8.5 percent, may touch 6.5 percent by the end
of March, said ING Investment’s Ramanathan.  Inflation  The central bank wants to cool inflation to between 4 and
4.5 percent in the medium-term and 3 percent in the long-term,
said Reserve Bank of India Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn
yesterday. India’s challenge is to keep inflation “under
check,” and the monetary authority will seek a balance between
sustaining the recovery and reigning in rise in prices, he said.  The Reserve Bank of India has increased its overnight
lending rate by 125 basis points this year, the most since the
policy tool was introduced in 2000. The repurchase auction rate
is 6 percent. As borrowing costs rose, India’s government
securities returned 3.6 percent this year, the worst among 10
local-currency debt markets outside Japan, according to indexes
compiled by London-based HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest
bank.  “The impact of past monetary policy actions is now
beginning to kick in and its effect on curbing inflation will be
more visible over the next two to three quarters,” said  Gaurav Kapur , a Mumbai-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland NV.
“Higher bank lending rates should cool demand side pressures.”  Yield Difference  Yearly expansion in  money supply  slowed to 15.2 percent
last month from 18.9 percent a year earlier as central bank
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao restrained cash to combat inflation.
The central bank may increase its benchmark rate by 50 basis
points more by March, said Kapur.  Food inflation  accelerated to almost a two-month high of
16.44 percent in the week ended Sept. 18 from a year earlier,
compared with 15.46 percent the previous week, according to data
published by the commerce ministry.  DSP Blackrock, the Indian unit of the world’s biggest money
manager, which holds Indian debt with an average maturity of 11
years compared with 9 years in June, will assess global and
local economic data before deciding whether to maintain or
reduce duration of the bonds,  Dhawal Dalal , the head of fixed
income at DSP Blackrock in Mumbai said in a phone interview
yesterday.  “The worry is that with festival season around the corner
you could probably see food inflation passing through to second
round of non-food inflation,” said Dalal, who manages the
equivalent of $2.5 billion in debt funds, referring to religious
holidays running through Nov. 5.  Narrow Deficit  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  aims to narrow the  budget
deficit  to 5.5 percent of gross domestic product in the year
ending March 31, from a 16-year high of 6.9 percent in fiscal
2010. The federal government’s borrowing target this fiscal year
is 4.47 trillion rupees compared with a record 4.51 trillion
rupees in the last fiscal year.  In the second half that began in October, the  Finance
Ministry  plans to sell debt securities worth 1.63 trillion
rupees. Only a quarter of those bonds will mature in 15 years or
more, which may boost demand for debt in that segment,  Ritesh Jain , head of fixed-income at Canara Robeco Asset Management in
Mumbai, said in a phone interview yesterday.  Demand for longer bonds may increase as insurance companies
and pension funds typically boost their holdings before the end
of the fiscal year, said Jain, whose company is a venture with
Robeco NV, the Dutch money manager owned by Rabobank Groep NV.  “I’m probably sitting on the highest duration in the
industry,” said Jain. “There will be demand in the longer end
as the shorter end is very volatile.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 V. Ramakrishnan  in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  