-- Intel Should Have Begun Mobile Push Sooner, CEO Says
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   A r i k   H e s s e l d a h l
-- 2010-10-05T20:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/intel-should-have-begun-mobile-push-sooner-ceo-says-update1-.html
Intel Corp., the world’s largest
maker of computer chips, got a late start in developing
semiconductors for mobile devices, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  said at a conference.  “I wish we had started earlier,” Otellini said today at
the Council on Foreign Relations in New York.  Intel, based in Santa Clara, California, has been trying to
win business from handset vendors with its Atom processor, a
scaled-down version of its PC chips. It has signed agreements to
supply Atom products to Nokia Oyj and LG Electronics Inc.
Otellini said smartphones carrying Intel semiconductors will be
released next year.  Efforts to develop mobile chips got added boost from
Intel’s agreement, announced in August, to buy the wireless
operations of Infineon Technologies AG for about $1.4 billion.
The unit makes chips for mobile devices including Apple Inc.’s
iPhone and Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy S and may help Intel
lessen its dependence on semiconductors for computers.  Otellini said Intel began working on chips aimed at
smartphones four years ago. “I wish I had been smart enough to
start it seven years ago because we’d be in a good position
today, but I wasn’t,” he said.  In other remarks, Otellini said the government should offer
U.S.-based and foreign companies tax incentives, or tax holidays
that would last five to 10 years, to encourage the construction
of new factories or the expansion of existing ones.  High U.S. Costs  It costs about $1 billion more to build and equip a
semiconductor factory in the U.S. than other countries because
of differences in tax and incentive policies.  “This will bring more manufacturing jobs back to the
U.S.,” he said. “It will employ our workers and stimulate the
economy, all at no cost to us.”  Otellini also proposed reducing the corporate tax rate to
“a level that is equal with that of our global competitors.”  Such a change would “reverse the flow of capital and jobs
out of this country,” he said.  Intel rose 28 cents to $19.15 by 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have fallen 6.1 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
 Arik Hesseldahl  in New York at 
 ahesseldahl@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 