-- Funds May Fill Vacuum After Collapse of U.K. Buy-to-Rent Market
-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 2010-10-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/investment-funds-may-fill-vacuum-after-collapse-of-u-k-buy-to-rent-market.html
Investment funds may become Britain’s
next generation of residential landlords following a government-
backed group’s 17-month campaign to revive the homebuilding
market after individual investors were forced out.  Aviva Plc  is preparing a 1 billion-pound ($1.6 billion)
fund to purchase newly built homes, according to its adviser.
The U.K.’s second-biggest insurer is among the institutional
investors approached by the state-funded  Homes and Communities
Agency  as it tries to replace small-scale buyers that were
pushed out of the market during the credit crisis.  The HCA, responsible for promoting affordable housing in
England, aims to lift homebuilding from the lowest level since
World War II by touting a 500 billion-pound market that offers
better returns than commercial property. Loans for so-called
buy-to-let purchases have fallen by 73 percent from their 2007
peak, according to the  Council of Mortgage Lenders .  “There’s a gap in the market that could both deliver more
housing and a different choice for people who want to rent,”
 Bob Kerslake , chief executive officer of the HCA, said in an
interview. “As it becomes more clear things will not go back to
the way they were, it will force people to look more creatively
at the options.”  Britain’s buy-to-let market increased 19-fold from 1997 to
2007 as TV programs such as “Location, Location, Location”
encouraged individuals to become landlords for the first time.
About 73 percent of U.K. residential investors own fewer than 10
units, with the state accounting for most of the rest. By
contrast, institutional investors own about  3.76 million
apartments  in the U.S.  Fund Options  Funds could either commit to buy a certain number of units
outright -- taking on expenses such as marketing -- or the
investor and builder could agree to manage properties together
and split rental profits, according to Chris Lacey, director of
residential development planning at  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc .,
which is advising Aviva on the fund.  “We’re not far off being able to launch it, in terms of
money and the product,” said Lacey, who expects the fund to be
created by the end of the year. “The U.K. is seen as a
relatively safe haven. We are concentrating on London and the
Southeast.”  As mortgage lending declines, the U.K. rental market is
increasing. The number of renters has grown by 500,000 since
2006 and now represents about 14 percent of all households in
England, according to CBRE, the world’s biggest real estate
consultant. The average age of a first-time homebuyer without
state assistance is 37, up from 33 in 2007, the mortgage lending
council said.  Wooing Investors  In May 2009, the HCA sought out interested parties for its
“ Private Rented Sector Initiative .” Later that year, CBRE and
Aviva Investors said they were looking to create a fund. The
agency has an annual budget of 5 billion pounds and receives
funding from the Communities and Local Government Department,
according to its website.  A combination of stable rents and falling housing values
has increased rental yields, the annual rental income as a
proportion of a property’s value. The five-year average total
return for residential property is 6.8 percent, according to
research company Investment Property Databank. That compares
with 1.8 percent for commercial property.  Institutional investors could provide an alternative source
of financing for the building of new homes, Lacey said.
Traditionally, builders fund development with debt, which is
harder to secure in the current climate, he said.  First Step  The HCA took the first step itself, forming a funding
partnership with  Berkeley Group Holdings Plc  to build 555 homes
for rent by June 2012. The Cobham, England-based homebuilder is
the U.K.’s second-biggest by market value.  “This is exactly the kind of landmark deal we were looking
for,” Kerslake said. “The creation of a bulk portfolio of
homes for rent could be a blueprint for long-term investment in
the sector in the future.”  Homes account for 24 percent of institutional property
investment in the U.S. under the “multi-family housing” model,
according to CBRE.  “The U.K. needs to look at the U.S. multi-family housing
model,” said  Nick Jopling , property director at  Grainger Plc ,
Britain’s largest publicly traded residential landlord. “It’s
about a piece of land, developing something that is fit for
purpose, renting it out and operating it as a business.”  The HCA initiative offers a “great opportunity” for
Grainger and there are institutions interested in doing deals
with the company, particularly those with a long-term outlook,
he said.  ‘Head in the Sand’  The bigger  U.K. homebuilders  have avoided deals with
institutional investors because they’re reluctant to share the
profits, Lacey said.  “They believe the market will drift back to where it
was,” he said. “It’s sort of head in the sand.”  Two of the U.K.’s biggest homebuilders,  Barratt
Developments Plc  and Persimmon Plc, said in August that they are
seeking to widen profit margins by focusing on price rather than
volume.  The lower-risk financing offered by institutional investors
may persuade developers to provide discounts on bulk property
purchases, Lacey said.  A more professional approach to the private rental market
may also boost the quality of landlords, CBRE’s Lacey said.
Institutions are more tightly focused on avoiding vacancies,
which is best achieved by making the tenant happy enough to
renew their lease, he said.  Angela Warburton , a spokeswoman for
Aviva Investors, confirmed the company is looking at creating a
fund and said there was no set date for its completion.  New Homes  Newly built properties are better for larger investors
because buying entire blocks of dwellings at once lets them
operate more efficiently than when purchasing single units, the
HCA’s Kerslake said. New properties also tend to be higher
quality and require less maintenance.  Investors entering the market will face a number of
hurdles. The government recently  rejected a call  from the
industry to lower the stamp duty tax threshold for purchasers of
multiple units. It will investigate offering real estate
investment trust status to residential funds, which would bring
other taxation benefits.  Lacey said a “significant number” of investors, including
private equity funds, have shown an interest in U.K. residential
property.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Barwell  in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 