-- Israel Deports Nobel Laureate Maguire After Rejecting Appeal of Entry Ban
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-10-05T13:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/israel-deports-nobel-laureate-maguire-after-rejecting-appeal-of-entry-ban.html
Israel today deported Nobel Peace
Prize laureate  Mairead Maguire  after the Supreme Court rejected
her appeal to join an international women’s delegation meeting
Israeli and Palestinian peace activists.  Maguire boarded a plane at 4 a.m. Israeli time today, the
Interior Ministry said in an e-mailed statement. The Supreme
Court yesterday ruled against 66-year-old Maguire’s appeal,
saying she should have applied to remove the ban against her
before trying to visit Israel.  Her lawyer, Fatmeh el-Ajou, said Maguire, who was born in
Belfast, Northern Ireland, would fight the 10-year banning order
after arriving home and recovering from her seven days in
Israeli detention.  Israel said the order was issued in June when Maguire was
expelled after commandos boarded an Irish aid ship trying to
break Israel’s embargo on the Gaza Strip and arrested those on
board, including the Nobel laureate. The Nobel Women’s
Initiative said Maguire, one of its co-founders, was told by
Israeli officials in June that there was no ban on her return.  Israel says the blockade on the Hamas-controlled territory
is legal because it is in “a state of armed conflict” with the
Islamic group, which is considered a terrorist organization by
the U.S., European Union and Israel.  “She is insisting that we act to revoke the ban as soon as
possible,” el-Ajou, from  Adalah , the Legal Center for Arab
Minority Rights in Israel, said in a phone interview. “She
wants to meet her partners in Israel and the occupied
territories and continue spreading her message for peace and
justice.”  Reason for Ban  The 10-year deportation order was issued against Maguire
because her participation in the attempt to break the embargo
was seen as an illegal attempt at entry, Interior Ministry
spokeswoman Sabin Hadad said today in an interview.  Maguire was awarded the  Nobel Peace Prize  in 1976 for her
“extraordinary actions to end the sectarian violence in her
native Northern Ireland,” according to the website of the Nobel
Women’s Initiative, a global organization to promote nonviolence
in conflict situations.  “She is not a threat to Israel’s security,” said
initiative co-founder  Jody Williams , a 1997 Nobel Peace Prize
laureate, according to an e-mailed statement from the women’s
organization.  The  Nobel Women’s Initiative  said the delegation to Israel
and the territories was aimed at highlighting the work of female
Israeli and Palestinian peace activists.  Activists Killed  The Irish aid ship’s effort to break the Israeli blockade
of Gaza followed an attempt by Turkish activists. On May 31, an
Israeli commando operation used force to stop the Turkish aid
ship, killing nine activists, and provoking international
condemnation. The raid is under investigation by Israel, Turkey
and the United Nations.  Hamas seized control of the Mediterranean enclave in 2007,
ending a partnership government with Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah party that began after Hamas won
a majority in parliamentary elections in 2006.  Israel started a military operation in Gaza in December
2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of rockets into
its territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and Israelis were
killed in the conflict. Since the end of the three-week
operation, more than 450 rockets have been fired from Gaza into
Israel, killing one foreign worker in March of this year, the
Israeli army said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 