-- Israeli Minister Erdan May Ask to Halt Work on Palestinian West Bank City
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-10-05T17:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/israeli-minister-erdan-may-ask-to-halt-work-on-palestinian-west-bank-city.html
Israel may try to stop construction
of a new Palestinian city, built with financing from Qatar,
because of concern that its sewage works will be substandard,
Environmental Protection Minister  Gilad Erdan  said.  Erdan’s visit today to the West Bank hillside being carved
up by bulldozers and tractors to build Rawabi city came as Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  remains under pressure from the U.S.
and Palestinians to reimpose a freeze on Jewish settlement
construction.  “It is quite strange that on one side people can’t build
one room or a balcony and on the other side they can build
thousands of apartments,” Erdan said, referring to Israel’s 10-
month partial halt of building in settlements that expired Sept.
26.  The Palestinians have threatened to pull out of U.S.-
brokered peace talks if Israel continues to build in West Bank
settlements, some of which ring the $500 million  Rawabi  project
on surrounding hills. Netanyahu said yesterday he is in
“sensitive diplomatic contacts” with the U.S. to find a
solution to the crisis that would let the talks continue.  Israeli Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz  said in New York
yesterday that it would be “very difficult” for the government
to renew the freeze.  Pollution  Erdan, 40, a member of Netanyahu’s Likud Party, said
ministry inspectors are concerned that the Rawabi project won’t
meet Israeli environmental standards and will pollute the area’s
groundwater and have asked for improvements.  While the city is being built in a part of the territory
labeled “Area A” that is under Palestinian control, Israel’s
Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  has the power to stop construction
if it poses any problems. Israel captured the West Bank from
Jordan in the 1967 Middle East war. Palestinians seek the
territory as part of a future state, along with the Gaza Strip.  “If we don’t get the answers we need, we will ask the
Defense Ministry to stop all construction activity,” Erdan
said, speaking to reporters he brought in an armored bus to the
site.  Amir Dajani, deputy managing-director of Bayti Real Estate
Investment Co., which is building Rawabi, met Erdan on a plateau
overlooking the site and said it will meet environmental
standards.  “We are exploring every possible avenue to assure that
Rawabi is environmentally friendly,” he said. “We are building
a modern, sustainable city.”  Access Road  Erdan also said he opposes allowing Palestinians to build a
2.8-kilometer (1.7-mile) access road to the city in “Area C,”
which is under joint Palestinian and Israeli authority, because
it would remove his leverage to enforce environmental standards.  “Everything should be decided in negotiations,” he said.  The Rawabi project aims to house about 25,000 people
northwest of Ramallah, the West Bank’s administrative center and
home to the Palestinian Authority. Most of the funding comes
from the Qatar government’s Diar Real Estate Investment Co.
Bayti Real Estate is the Ramallah-based Palestinian partner.  Along with residential buildings clustered around parks,
the Rawabi plans call for shopping centers, schools, mosques, a
church and a movie theater, according to developers. The first
apartments are planned to be ready in 2013.  While excavation of the site begun in January, no actual
housing construction has been started.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Rawabi, West Bank, via Tel Aviv
at   jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 