-- Liverpool Football Club Gets Two Offers as Split Divides Boardroom
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-05T23:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/liverpool-board-said-to-reject-owners-attempt-to-refinance-444-million.html
Liverpool soccer club said it
received two buyout offers that would wipe out the 18-time
English champion’s debt as owners  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett 
tried to oust two board members supporting the proposals.  Hicks and Gillett sought to replace managing director
 Christian Purslow  and commercial director  Ian Ayre  before a
board meeting yesterday to review the two bids and approve a
sale, Liverpool said in a statement. The owners attempted to
appoint  Mack Hicks  and Lori Kay McCutcheon to the board.  “This matter is now subject to legal review and a further
announcement will be made in due course,” Liverpool said in a
statement on its website. Purslow, Ayre and Chairman  Martin Broughton  “continue to explore every possible route to
achieving a sale of the club at the earliest opportunity.”  Liverpool got an offer from New England Sports Ventures,
the owner of the Boston Red Sox, as well as from a group from
the Far East, three people familiar with the situation said.  Hicks and Gillett said the offers “dramatically
undervalue” the club and they’ll fight attempts to sell the
team without their approval. They said they’ve invested more
than $270 million in cash since buying Liverpool in 2007.  ‘Fair Price’  “To be clear, there is no change in our commitment to
finding a buyer for Liverpool Football Club at a fair price that
reflects the very significant investment we’ve made,” Hicks and
Gillett said today in an e-mailed statement. “We will however
resist any attempt to sell the club without due process or
agreement by the owners.”  The American owners are struggling to meet a mid-October
deadline to sell or refinance their 280-million pound ($444
million) debt to  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc . Purslow, Ayre
and Broughton blocked an attempt by Hicks and Gillett to
refinance, said the people, who declined to be identified
because talks to sell the club continue. It’s the third time the
owners’ refinancing has been stopped by the other board members.  Liverpool, a five-time European champion, failed to reach
this year’s Champions League, which can add more than 30 million
pounds in revenue. While Hicks said in April that he wanted as
much as 800 million pounds for the team, no bidder has
approached the asking price for the team, which is now in the
relegation zone of the Premier League.  New England Sports Ventures, LLC is the holding company for
the Red Sox, Fenway Park and New England Sports Network. New
England Sports Ventures, LLC was incorporated in 2001 and is
based in Boston.  Red Sox spokeswomen Pam Ganley and Leah Tobin didn’t
immediately return telephone calls seeking comment.  Liverpool spokesman  Paul Tyrrell  said the club doesn’t
comment on the sale process. The owners have days to complete a
sale or refinance the debt before its maturity, when the
government-controlled bank could take control.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  