-- Ivory Coast to Build Railway to Boost Output From Western Mines
-- B y   M o n i c a   M a r k
-- 2010-10-05T13:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/ivory-coast-plans-to-build-railway-to-boost-output-from-its-western-mines.html
Ivory Coast plans to build a railway
linking the west of the country with the port town of San Pedro
as it seeks to boost production from nickel and iron mines in
the region, Mines and Energy Minister  Augustin Comoe  said.  “The west is overflowing with nickel, manganese and
iron,” he said by phone from Abidjan today. Construction of the
railway will begin in 2014 and “we’re looking to transport
about 22 million metric tons of minerals” a year, Comoe said.  Ivory Coast, the world’s largest cocoa producer, is aiming
to boost the contribution of mining to the nation’s gross
domestic product to 10 percent by 2020 from 1.5 percent now, the
Ministry of Mines and Energy has said.  Infrastructure in the western region has deteriorated
following a 2002 armed conflict that split the country into a
government-held south and rebel-controlled north.  The planned 737-kilometer (458-mile) rail network will
transport minerals to San Pedro from the Guinea and Liberian
border regions, Comoe said. The line will also carry about
45,000 tons of cocoa a year and 24,500 tons of timber, he said.  Studies prior to the outbreak of the conflict eight years
ago estimated that the cost of building the rail line would be
about 860 billion CFA francs ($1.8 billion), Comoe said. That
estimate will now need to be updated, he said, without providing
further details.  The planned railway will run as far north-west as the town
of Man, a former rebel-held town some 250 kilometers north of
San Pedro. The Ivory Coast plans to hold elections on Oct. 31.  “There is no more conflict, elections are going ahead, so
we are assuring investors it is now safe to begin exploiting
minerals here,” Comoe said.  Companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  ArcelorMittal ,
which have operations in neighboring Guinea and Liberia, are
potential investors in talks with Ivory Coast, he said, without
commenting further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monica Mark  in Abidjan via Johannesburg on  at
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  