-- Japan Tobacco Drops as September Sales Growth May Be Weaker Than Forecast
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2010-10-05T07:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/japan-tobacco-drops-as-september-sales-growth-may-be-weaker-than-forecast.html
Japan Tobacco Inc. , the world’s
third-largest publicly traded cigarette maker, fell the most in
two months in Tokyo trading on speculation the industry’s sales
growth last month may have been weaker than forecast.  Japan Tobacco  slid 3 percent, the most since July 30, to
close at 262,500 yen. It was the biggest drag on Japan’s  Topix 
index, which advanced 1.2 percent.  Tobacco sales growth in Japan last month may be lower than
Credit Suisse Group AG predicted, analyst  Yoshiyasu Okihira  said
in a note to clients yesterday. Credit Suisse earlier forecast
cigarette sales in the country would increase 85 percent as
smokers hoarded cigarettes before a record 40 percent tax
increase at the start of this month.  Major convenience stores boosted cigarette sales by between
60 percent and 70 percent in September, said Okihira, who has a
“neutral” rating on  Japan Tobacco . The outlets handle more
than 60 percent of Japan’s cigarette sales, he said.  Today’s retreat extended  Japan Tobacco’s slide this year  to
16 percent, compared with an 8.3 percent decline for the Topix.  “Some people are selling  Japan Tobacco , as they worry that
the domestic cigarette market will shrink faster than
expected,” said  Tsuyoshi Segawa , a Tokyo-based strategist at
 Mizuho Securities  Co.  The price of a pack of 20 cigarettes in Japan rose by an
average of 33 percent to 400 yen ($4.79) on Oct. 1 because of
the higher tax. Thousands of smokers bought cigarette cartons at
convenience stores and other retailers before the tax took
effect.  Japan Tobacco forecast  net income  to fall 3.9 percent this
fiscal year as the higher tax may cut demand. The Tokyo-based
company expects its domestic cigarette sales to fall 16 percent
this fiscal year, it said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  