-- JPMorgan's Geneva Business Targets Wealthy Swiss Families to Double Assets
-- B y   W a r r e n   G i l e s
-- 2010-10-05T08:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/jpmorgan-s-geneva-unit-targets-swiss-families-to-double-assets.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  wants to double
client assets under management in Switzerland over the next five
years by targeting wealthy families, said  Andrea Tardy , managing
director of the Geneva-based business.  JPMorgan (Suisse) SA’s current clientele includes foreign
residents in Switzerland and family offices, said Tardy, 45, in
an interview at his office on Geneva’s main shopping street. The
global reach of JPMorgan, which caters to ultra-high-net-worth
clients willing to invest more than $25 million, may appeal to
Swiss families already with other private banks, he said.  “We’d like to be big,” said Tardy, declining to give a
figure for assets under management in Switzerland. “Ultra-high
net worth’s are global and need a global player.”  The Geneva unit is JPMorgan’s second-biggest private
banking office after New York, and Tardy plans to add two or
three bankers over the next 12 to 15 months to the five
relationship managers working on the Swiss market. JPMorgan, the
world’s sixth-largest wealth manager at the end of 2009
according to London-based Scorpio Partnership, manages more than
$720 billion of private assets globally, said Tardy.  “We’re seeing a flight to a quality experience and people
are making different choices,” said Tardy, who became head of
JPMorgan’s Swiss business 12 months ago, after heading Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s Geneva private bank between August 2007 and
February 2009.  Tardy, an Italian national with a law degree from Turin,
worked as a relationship manager at Union Bancaire Privée’s
London office for a year until May 2007, after working for
JPMorgan in London since 1997.  New Appointments  JPMorgan, which has more than 600 staff in Geneva, last
month appointed  Romain Pasche  from Vontobel Asset Management as
senior investment adviser and  Audrey Childe-Freeman  from Brown
Brothers Harriman as head of currency strategy. The bank also
named  Rhian Horgan  as international head of alternative
investments, based in London.  JPMorgan said last week that over the next five years it
plans to triple private banking assets in Asia, its fastest-
growing market, after moving  Douglas Wurth , chief executive
officer for international private banking, to the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Warren Giles  in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  