-- Kan, Wen Move to Resolve China-Japan Dispute
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-10-05T14:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/kan-wen-meeting-positive-for-japan-china-s-bilaterial-ties-sengoku-says.html
Japan and China moved to resolve the
biggest diplomatic dispute in at least five years with a meeting
yesterday in Brussels between Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao .  “It was positive for Japan and China as well as Asia and
the global economy that both countries will improve ties and
promote a strategic mutual relationship,” Japan’s Chief Cabinet
Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said at a press conference in Tokyo.
Both leaders agreed to “return to the starting point” of the
countries’ reciprocal ties, he said.  The meeting may help ease tensions sparked by last month’s
collision between a Chinese trawler and two Japanese Coast Guard
vessels in the East China Sea that re-ignited a quarrel over
uninhabited islands nearby. The incident has threatened trade
between Asia’s two biggest economies as China reportedly halted
exports of rare earth metals and stopped ministerial talks.  “China is losing reasons to prolong this,” said  Satoshi Amako , a professor at Waseda University’s Graduate School of
Asia-Pacific Studies in Tokyo. “Remaining at cross purposes
would hurt the Kan administration’s efforts to improve ties and
would further deteriorate Japanese sentiment toward China.”  Kan and Wen met after a working dinner at the Asia-Europe
meeting, running into each other in a hallway, Japanese Foreign
Ministry spokesman  Hidenobu Sobashima  said. They sat on chairs
in the hall and talked with the aid of interpreters, he said.  Competing Territorial Claims  Both men reiterated their country’s claim to the islands,
known as  Senkaku  in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese and
administrated by Japan. Control over the area would give the
holder rights to undersea natural gas and oil reserves. China
and Japan have yet to implement a 2008 agreement to jointly
develop the gas fields.  Wen told Kan that while the islands are Chinese territory,
it is in both their interests to protect and advance the
“strategic relationship of mutual benefit,” Xinhua News Agency
reported.  The 25-minute meeting “was very good,” Japanese Foreign
Minister  Seiji Maehara  said today at the Foreign Correspondents’
of Japan in Tokyo. He said he will work on improving strategic
relations with China. Maehara added that strengthening ties with
the U.S., Japan’s biggest ally, was necessary to respond to
China’s increasing influence and other changes in East Asia.  Japan is China’s second-biggest trading partner after the
U.S., with two-way commerce in the first seven months of the
year rising 25 percent from the same period in 2009 to $65.2
billion, Chinese customs data show. China is Japan’s largest
trading partner, buying 10.2 trillion yen ($122 billion) of the
nation’s goods and services last year.  Rare Earths  Japan, the world’s biggest importer of rare earths, said on
Oct. 5 that it was urging China to improve shipments of the
minerals after a government survey showed that 31 Japanese
buyers reported problems with exports. Rare earths are a group
of 17 metals used in weapons, hybrid vehicles and laptop
computers.  China, which controls more than 95 percent of global rare-
earth supply, imposed a de facto ban on exports to Japan last
month, Japanese Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said Sept. 28.  Japanese companies reported difficulties in applying for
export licenses and customs clearance because of tightened cargo
inspections, according to the survey, which was released by the
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. A total of 152 were
surveyed, with 66 replies between Sept. 28 and Sept. 30. The
companies were not identified.  Compensation Demands  Japan on Sept. 24 released the captain of the Chinese
fishing boat after 17 days in detention. China, which repeatedly
called for his release, demanded compensation after he was
freed. The Japanese government countered by calling on China to
pay for repairs to the patrol boats.  Public discontent over the Japanese administration’s
handling of the episode has hurt Kan’s popularity, polls
released yesterday showed. Sengoku last week said foreign
ministry officials met with local prosecutors before they
released the captain and opposition politicians as well as
ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  lawmakers who criticized the
decision to free him.  China last week released three of four Japanese employees
of a construction firm after arresting them for allegedly
videotaping military targets. Sengoku said he didn’t know what
impact the Kan-Wen meeting would have on securing the release of
the fourth employee.  “It’s unpredictable at the moment,” Sengoku said.  The diplomatic row is the most serious since 2005, when
thousands of Chinese protested Japanese textbooks that
downplayed the nation’s wartime atrocities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  