-- Kazakhmys Chairman Kim Sells Stock, Mulls Secondary Listing in Hong Kong
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2010-10-05T16:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/kazakhmys-chairman-kim-sells-stock-mulls-secondary-listing-in-hong-kong.html
Kazakhmys Plc , Kazakhstan’s biggest
copper company, said Chairman  Vladimir Kim  sold about 11 percent
of the shares in issue and would only sell more in the next 12
months in the event of a secondary listing in Hong Kong.  Kim sold 58.9 million shares for 1,423 pence each and has
undertaken not to sell any more for a year, save for as many as
21.4 million shares that could facilitate liquidity for a
listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 2011, the company
said today in a statement.  “We are reviewing the possibility of a secondary
listing,” spokesman  John Smelt  said today by telephone.
“Should we proceed with the plans, we will not be raising new
equity. We are at the very initial stage in the process and do
not expect it to happen any time soon.”  Kazakhmys, which plans to raise copper output by two-thirds
within five years, is seeking as much as $2 billion to develop
its Kazakh Aktogay copper project with Chinese partner Jinchuan
Group Ltd. Kazakhmys, based in London, has already raised $2.7
billion, mainly for the Bozshakol project and other expansion
ventures.  The state-owned National Welfare Fund Samruk-Kazyna bought
Kim’s shares, increasing the Kazakh government’s stake in the
company to 26 percent, according to the statement. Kim’s stake
shrank to 27.9 percent.  Committed to Kazakhmys  “Whilst seeking to diversify my investments, I remain
fully committed to Kazakhmys and its future,” Kim said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “My role within the group is
unchanged and I look forward to continue assisting the company
in delivering its long-term goals.”  Kazakhmys  rose 4 pence, or 0.3 percent, to 1,427 pence at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London trading. The stock earlier sank as
much as 4.5 percent.  Evolution Securities cut its  rating  on Kazakhmys to
“reduce” from “add” on concern the Kazakh government may
become the largest shareholder following a Hong Kong secondary
listing, which would reduce Kim’s stake to 23.9 percent, analyst
 Louise Collinge  wrote in a note to investors.  “We are cautious about the implications of these moves,”
Collinge said. “While it is unlikely that they will have any
immediate effect on the management and direction of the company,
there may well be a call for more social funding, libraries,
across the country.”  It is essential, in particular for mining companies, to
have a strong relationship with the governments of the countries
where they operate, Smelt said. “We have a good relationship
with the government of Kazakhstan and do not expect the
transaction to change that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 