-- Kerviel Gets 3 Years, Must Repay Societe Generale Loss
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-05T16:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/kerviel-found-guilty-in-socgen-trading-case-gets-five-year-jail-sentence.html
Jerome Kerviel  was sentenced to three
years in prison and ordered to repay  Societe Generale SA ’s
4.9 billion-euro ($6.8 billion) trading loss by a judge who said
the former trader’s crimes threatened the bank’s existence.  Judge Dominique Pauthe held Kerviel solely responsible for
the loss, saying he deceived the bank in amassing 50 billion
euros in futures positions. He found Kerviel guilty on all three
counts: breach of trust, forging documents and computer hacking.  “There has never been anything like this,” said Arnaud de
la Cotardiere, the Paris-based head of commercial practice for
 Linklaters LLP . “Five billion euros is a lot, it was the first
time a bank had ever lost so much money.”  The trading loss, announced Jan. 24, 2008, prompted then-
chief executive officer  Daniel Bouton  to describe Kerviel as a
“terrorist.” The court placed the blame for the loss on
Kerviel alone, rejecting defense arguments during a three-week
trial in June that his superiors knew of his actions and that
the bank’s decision to unwind the bets over three days of
falling markets caused the loss.  “By his deliberate actions, he put in peril the existence
of the bank that employed 140,000 people, of which he was a
part, and whose future was threatened,” Pauthe said today in
reading excerpts of the judgment.  The 4.9 billion-euro award “is obviously symbolic,”
 Christopher Mesnooh , a Paris-based lawyer with Field Fisher
Waterhouse LLP, said in a telephone interview. “It goes a very
long way in exonerating the bank and putting responsibility for
the losses, including the winding down of the positions by
Societe Generale, entirely in Jerome’s court.”  No Expectations  “No one has any expectation that he’ll pay,” said
Mesnooh, who isn’t involved in the case.  Olivier Metzner , Kerviel’s lawyer, said he would appeal the
ruling, and that Kerviel would “obviously not” be able to
repay the loss. Dressed in a dark suit, Kerviel, 33, sat in
court following the decision, reading on his iPhone. He will
remain free during the appeal.  The former trader is “revolted that those that created him
put all responsibility on him,” Metzner said, noting Kerviel
wouldn’t comment directly. “Prison is unacceptable for a man
who didn’t make a penny.”  Pauthe said problems with Societe Generale’s computer
controls and management’s encouragement of traders to speculate
wasn’t enough to absolve Kerviel.  ‘Lack of Vigilance’  “Lack of vigilance by the bank in monitoring the only
existing limits, acting as alert signs, hardly exempted Jerome
Kerviel from his duty to inform his hierarchy of the reality of
his excesses or to come back to the limits,” Pauthe said.  France’s Banking Commission fined Societe Generale
4 million euros in 2008 for “serious shortcomings” in its risk
controls. A report commissioned by the bank’s board faulted its
internal monitors, saying in May 2008 Kerviel’s supervisors
failed to “react in an appropriate manner to several alert
signals” and missed at least 1,071 bogus trades.  Kerviel’s defense erred in going beyond saying the bank
shared responsibility due to the failure of its controls,
claiming his superiors actively knew of his actions, de la
Cotardiere said.  “The Court was quite clear, there was not a single proof
that the bank knew what Mr. Kerviel was doing,” he said. “Mr.
Kerviel was the only one to have committed a crime, and Mr.
Kerviel must pay.”  First Time Offender  Prosecutors had sought a five-year prison sentence with one
year suspended; Kerviel received a five-year sentence, with two
suspended. If an appeals court upholds the verdict, Kerviel
would likely spend from 1 1/2 years to two years in prison, de
la Cotardiere said, a substantial sentence for a first time
offender in France.  Jean Veil , the lawyer representing Societe Generale, said
he was satisfied by the guilty verdict and award, which the
Paris-based bank had requested at trial.  The award “confirms what Societe Generale has always told
its shareholders and employees,” Veil said.  In response to questions on how Kerviel might repay the
bank, Veil said, “Bill Gates became rich, he could become rich
with the Internet.”  Kerviel was charged after amassing 50 billion euros in bets
on futures and using fake hedges to cover the risk.  Delta One Trader  After joining Societe Generale in 2000, Kerviel rose to
trader in 2005. He worked on the Delta One trading desk, where,
according to the bank, his job was to arbitrage small price
differences between contracts, not take bets on market
directions. A routine check exposed one of these bets on Jan.
18, 2008. That set in motion a three-day selloff of his stakes
as  markets fell worldwide .  Kerviel, who was held in provisional detention at Paris’s
La Sante prison for five weeks in 2008, admitted throughout the
investigation and trial he had hidden his bets. Kerviel conceded
at trial that accumulating positions worth 50 billion euros was
“probably not” in his mandate. He also told police he wouldn’t
be a scapegoat for the “blind eye” the bank turned.  While he wasn’t accused of taking money for himself,
prosecutors argued Kerviel was driven to boost his bonus.
Kerviel said his sole motivation was to make money for France’s
 second largest  bank.  The two goals are linked, said  Robert Falkner , a litigator
with Reed Smith in London.  “It is the raison d’être for a trader to make money for
the bank and for himself through the bonuses,” Falkner said.
The only reason to exceed limits is “to increase profits both
for the bank and for themselves in bonuses.”  Unauthorized Positions  At trial, Kerviel said taking unauthorized positions and
covering them up was a common practice by Societe Generale
traders. That assertion was contradicted by other witnesses.  Societe Generale had to turn to shareholders for 5.5
billion euros in a stock offering following the losses in 2008.
Bouton, 60, stepped down as chairman in April of last year after
complaining of “repeated attacks” in the media during the
months following the loss.  The bank posted a record 3.35 billion-euro loss in the
fourth quarter of 2007, hurt by the unauthorized trading and
writedowns on subprime-related securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 