-- Kerviel Gets 3 Years, Must Repay Societe Generale Trading Loss
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-05T11:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/kerviel-is-jailed-for-three-years-ordered-to-repay-6-5-billion-to-socgen.html
Jerome Kerviel  was sentenced to three
years in prison and ordered to repay  Societe Generale SA ’s
4.9 billion-euro ($6.8 billion) trading loss by a judge who said
the former trader’s actions threatened the bank’s existence.  “By his deliberate actions, he put in peril the existence
of the bank that employed 140,000 people, of which he was a
part, and whose future was threatened,” Judge Dominique Pauthe
said today in finding Kerviel guilty of breach of trust, forging
documents and computer hacking.  The trading loss, announced Jan. 24, 2008, was the biggest
ever and prompted then-chief executive officer  Daniel Bouton  to
describe Kerviel as a “terrorist.” The court placed the blame
for the loss on Kerviel alone, rejecting defense arguments
during a three-week trial in June that his superiors knew of his
actions and that the bank’s decision to unwind the bets over
three days of falling markets caused the loss.  The 4.9 billion-euro award “is obviously symbolic,”
 Christopher Mesnooh , a Paris-based lawyer with Field Fisher
Waterhouse LLP, said in a telephone interview. “It goes a very
long way in exonerating the bank and putting responsibility for
the losses, including the winding down of the positions by
Societe Generale, entirely in Jerome’s court.”  “No one has any expectation that he’ll pay,” said
Mesnooh, who isn’t involved in the Kerviel case.  Dark Suit, Phone  Olivier Metzner , Kerviel’s lawyer, said he would appeal the
ruling, and that Kerviel would “obviously not” be able to
repay the loss. Dressed in a dark suit, Kerviel, 33, sat in
court following the decision reading on his iPhone. He will
remain free during the appeal.  The former trader is “revolted that those that created him
put all responsibility on him,” Metzner said, noting Kerviel
wouldn’t comment directly. “Prison is unacceptable for a man
who didn’t make a penny.”  Pauthe said problems with Societe Generale’s computer
controls and management’s encouragement of traders to speculate
wasn’t enough to absolve Kerviel.  “The lack of vigilance by the bank in monitoring the only
existing limits, acting as alert signs, hardly exempted Jerome
Kerviel from his duty to inform his hierarchy of the reality of
his excesses or to come back to the limits imposed,” Pauthe
said in reading excerpts of the decision.  “Serious Shortcomings”  France’s Banking Commission fined Societe Generale
4 million euros in 2008 for “serious shortcomings” in its risk
controls. A report commissioned by the bank’s board faulted its
internal monitors, saying in May 2008 Kerviel’s supervisors
failed to “react in an appropriate manner to several alert
signals” and missed at least 1,071 bogus trades.  Prosecutors had sought a five-year prison sentence with one
year suspended; Kerviel received a five-year sentence, with two
suspended.  Jean Veil , the lawyer representing Societe Generale, said
he was satisfied by the guilty verdict and award, which the
Paris-based bank had requested at trial.  The award “confirms what Societe Generale has always told
its shareholders and employees,” Veil said.  In response to questions on how Kerviel might repay the
bank, Veil said, “Bill Gates became rich, he could become rich
with the Internet.”  Kerviel was charged after he amassed 50 billion euros in
unauthorized bets on futures, using faked hedges to make it
appear the risk was minimized.  Three-Day Selloff  After joining Societe Generale in 2000, Kerviel rose to
trader in 2005. He worked on the Delta One trading desk, where,
according to the bank, his job was to arbitrage small price
differences between contracts, not take bets on market
directions. Societe Generale said a routine check exposed one of
these bets on Jan. 18, 2008. That set in motion a three-day
selloff of his stakes as  markets fell worldwide .  Kerviel, who was held in provisional detention at Paris’s
La Sante prison for five weeks in 2008, admitted throughout the
investigation and trial he had hidden his bets. Kerviel conceded
at trial that accumulating positions worth 50 billion euros was
“probably not” in his mandate. He also told police he wouldn’t
be a scapegoat for the “blind eye” the bank turned.  Prosecutors argued Kerviel was driven to boost his bonus,
while Kerviel said his sole motivation was to make money for
France’s  second largest  bank. He was never accused of taking
money for himself.  Bonuses, Profits  The two goals are linked, said  Robert Falkner , a litigator
with Reed Smith in London.  “It is the raison d’être for a trader to make money for
the bank and for himself through the bonuses, which depend on
the profits,” Falkner said.  “It is the nature of the job to have limits,” he said.
The only reason to exceed them is “to increase profits both for
the bank and for themselves in bonuses.”  At trial, Kerviel said taking unauthorized positions and
covering them up was a common practice by Societe Generale
traders. That assertion was contradicted by almost all the
witnesses who testified.  Societe Generale had to turn to shareholders for
5.5 billion euros in a stock offering following the losses in
2008. Bouton, 60, stepped down as chairman in April of last year
after complaining of “repeated attacks” in the media during the
months following the loss. Bouton was replaced as chief
executive officer and chairman by  Frederic Oudea .  The bank posted a record 3.35 billion-euro loss in the
fourth quarter of 2007, hurt by the unauthorized trading and
writedowns on subprime-related securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 