-- Nestle Approaches Brazil to Settle Garoto Antitrust Court Case
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2010-10-05T12:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/nestle-approaches-brazil-government-to-settle-garoto-antitrust-court-case.html
Nestle SA  approached the Brazilian
government with a proposal to sell assets and settle a six-year
court dispute related to its purchase of Chocolates Garoto SA,
which was blocked by antitrust regulators, according to two
government officials.  The first meeting took place on Sept. 16 at the attorney
general’s office, according to Antonio Henrique Pinheiro
Silveira and Mariana Tavares, secretaries of the antitrust arms
of the Finance Ministry and Justice Ministry, respectively.
Silveira and Tavares were present, along with lawyers for Nestle
Brasil Ltda. and the attorney general, Luis Inacio Lucena Adams.  “The discussions are very preliminary,” Tavares said in a
Sept. 24 telephone interview from Brasilia. Silveira spoke about
the matter in a Sept. 23 interview, also in the capital.  Nestle’s proposed purchase of Garoto in 2002 was the first
time Brazil’s antitrust regulator, known as  Cade , completely
rejected an acquisition. Representatives from the regulator
weren’t invited to the meeting, according to the officials. Cade
President Arthur Badin said by e-mail he had no knowledge of the
talks.  The antitrust ruling can’t be reversed out of court without
Cade’s approval, Badin said. Any new proposal from Nestle will
have to be processed by Cade’s attorney and judged by the
agency’s six-strong plenary, he added.  Robin Tickle, a spokesman for Nestle in Vevey, Switzerland,
said the company declined to comment on the matter.  After Cade’s decision in 2004, Nestle offered to sell a
line of chocolate coatings that it said corresponded to 46
percent of domestic demand for the product. The company also
offered to sell chocolate brands. The proposal was rejected by
Cade, and Nestle decided to take the matter to court.  Silveira said a Nestle proposal to sell some brands may not
be sufficient. He said all competition conditions in the
industry must be evaluated, including distribution.  -- With assistance from Clementine Fletcher in London. Editors:
 Robin Stringer , Laura Price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  