-- U.S. Waives Health Insurance Minimums for 1 Million
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-10-05T22:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/new-rules-on-health-insurance-minimums-are-waived-for-1-million.html
Almost a million workers won’t get a
consumer protection in U.S. health law meant to cap insurance
costs because the government exempted their employers.  Thirty companies and organizations, including  Jack in the
Box Inc. , won’t be required to raise the minimum annual benefit
included in low-cost health plans often used to cover part-time
or low-wage employees. The Department of Health and Human
Services, which provided a list of exemptions, said it granted
waivers in late September so workers with such plans wouldn’t
lose coverage from employers who might choose instead to drop
their health insurance altogether.  Without the waivers, companies would have had to provide a
minimum of $750,000 in coverage next year, increasing to $1.25
million in 2012, $2 million in 2013, and unlimited coverage in
2014.  “The big political issue here is the president promised no
one would lose the coverage they’ve got,”  Robert Laszewski ,
chief executive officer of consulting company Health Policy and
Strategy Associates, said by telephone. “Here we are a month
before the election, and these companies represent 1 million
people who would lose the coverage they’ve got.”  The United Agricultural Benefit Trust, the California-based
cooperative that offers coverage to farm workers, got to exempt
17,347 people. San Diego-based Jack in the Box’s waiver is for
1,130 workers, while  McDonald’s Corp . asked to excuse 115,000.  Rules Exemptions  The plans will be exempt from rules intended to keep people
from having to pay for all their care once they reach a preset
coverage cap. McDonald’s, which offers the programs as a way to
cover part-time employees, told the Obama administration it may
re-evaluate the plans unless it got a waiver.  McDonald’s, based in Oak Brook, Illinois, and Jack in the
Box didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, said in
a letter last week he’s leading a congressional investigation of
whether limited-benefit plans provide sufficient coverage and
give fair value to workers.  Rockefeller’s investigation misses the point, Laszewski
says, because companies can’t afford to spend more on health
coverage for lower-wage employees.  ‘Best They Can’  “These tend to be part-time workers or workers at minimum
wage,” he said. “You’ve got people that are making $12,000,
$14,000 per year.” Federal law doesn’t require these
individuals be covered until 2014.  The average  annual premium  for individual coverage in an
employer-sponsored plan was $4,824 in 2009, according to the
Menlo Park, California-based Kaiser Family Foundation.  The waiver program is intended to provide continuous
coverage until 2014, when new government-organized marketplaces
will offer insurance subsidized by tax credits, Jessica
Santillo, a Department of Health and Human Services spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  Unions, Youth  Tim Edney, business manager of the Washington and Maryland
 District Council 51  branch of the International Union of
Painters and Allied Trades, said the union now covers as much as
$350,000 a year in medical costs for its 800 members. The new
rules, which the union was exempted from on Sept. 27, would have
required the limit to be raised to $750,000.  That would have increased what union members pay in health
insurance by about 6 percent, or about 25 cents out of each
worker’s hourly wages, Edney said.  “I’m scared to death that these changes are going to break
all our funds. I hope there’s savings down the road,” he said.  The regulations also would have hit some of the insurance
plans for young adults in the  universal coverage program  run by
the state of Massachusetts. The program, enacted in 2006, has a
plan for individuals age 18 to 26 who can’t get coverage through
work, covering about 5,000 people.  The waiver obtained by the state “will give us time to
implement the transition plan in a manner designed to mitigate
premium increases,” Dick Powers, a spokesman for the state
program, said in a phone interview.  One-Year Waivers  The biggest single  waiver , for 351,000 people, was for the
United Federation of Teachers Welfare Fund, a New York union
providing coverage for city teachers. The union asked for a
waiver for its supplemental drug plan, which offers coverage up
to $100,000 to pay for prescriptions, said union president
 Michael Mulgrew . The city of New York covers hospital and
physician care for teachers and their families.  The waiver will buy the union time to figure out how to
comply with the new limit. “We want to look at these costs and
figure out exactly what they should cost us,” he said in a
phone interview.  Unlike the union plans, limited-benefit plans are popular
with companies that have workers who don’t earn enough to afford
coverage, or whose workforces might be prohibitively expensive
to insure, said  Daryl Richard , a spokesman for Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group Inc ., which offers limited-
benefit plans to about a dozen companies.  The waivers are effective for a year and were granted to
insurance plans and companies who showed that employee premiums
would rise or that workers would lose coverage without them,
Santillo said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 