-- NWR Bids $1.2 Billion for Polish Coal Miner Bogdanka
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2010-10-05T17:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/new-world-resources-places-bid-to-take-over-polish-coal-producer-bogdanka.html
New World Resources NV , the largest
Czech producer of coking coal, offered to buy Lubelski Wegiel
Bogdanka SA of Poland for 3.43 billion zloty ($1.2 billion) to
boost coal reserves and its regional market position.  NWR bid for Poland’s only publicly traded coal producer at
100.75 zloty a share, a premium of 13 percent to its  closing
price  yesterday, NWR said today in a statement.  Bogdanka is “a very competitive producer of coal and it’s
well established,” NWR Chairman  Mike Salamon  said in a phone
interview, adding that “it’s profitable and it offers organic
growth.” NWR representatives have met Bogdanka managers and
hope to convince them to back the deal, he told reporters later.  NWR, which mines coal for steelmakers and power plants, is
looking to Poland, which gets 90 percent of its electricity from
the fuel, to expand its reserves as coal prices recover. NWR’s
customers include the Czech unit of ArcelorMittal, the world’s
largest steel producer.  NWR  rose 0.8 percent to 745 pence at 4:30 p.m. in London,
the highest closing price in a week.  Bogdanka’s management has no comment on the bid,  Tomasz Zieba , a spokesman for the Polish company, said today by phone.  Attractive Price  “The price is attractive and will likely be accepted by
investors,”  Tomasz Czyz , a Warsaw-based analyst at ING Groep
NV, said by phone. “The price is above all price targets in
research reports by analysts that cover Bogdanka.”  Bogdanka ’s shares fell 0.2 percent to 89.05 zloty before
the Warsaw Stock Exchange suspended trade. The stock closed at a
record-high 89.9 zloty on Oct. 1.  “Bogdanka already trades at a premium to NWR’s multiples”
and NWR’s bid above the market price “means it’s paying a
relatively high price for its expansion in Poland,”  Jan Tomanik , an analyst at Wood & Co. in Prague, said by phone.  NWR will use as much as 400 million euros ($552 million) of
cash to finance the transaction, along with credit facilities
from units of Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., which are
managing the deal. The company may sell new shares and bonds to
refinance the borrowing, according to the statement.  Bogdanka, formerly state-owned, sold stock last year in an
initial public offering. The government sold more Bogdanka
shares at 70.5 zloty apiece earlier this year.  Polish Expansion  NWR may bid for other Polish mines that the government
plans to sell next year, Salamon told reporters in Warsaw. The
company already has a license to open a mine in Debiensko, not
far from its operations near the eastern Czech city of Ostrava.  NWR  “survived well” in the global financial crisis, which
eroded demand for energy and coal across eastern Europe, and is
financially sound, Salamon said in the interview. The Bogdanka
transaction will be “fully accretive” from the first year of
the takeover, he said.  “We survived well the rigors of 2008 and the business is
doing well, so we’re in a good position to focus on further
growth,” Salamon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
 Lenka Ponikelska  in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  