-- New Jersey’s Christie Sets Oversight Plan With Atlantic City
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-05T17:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/new-jersey-s-christie-sets-oversight-plan-with-atlantic-city.html
New Jersey will assume oversight of
the budget and finances of Atlantic City, the second-biggest
U.S. gambling center, for at least a year under an arrangement
between Governor  Chris Christie  and the city’s mayor.  State officials will get a direct hand in developing the
budget and tax rate for the city of about 40,000, according to a
one-page agreement signed today by Mayor  Lorenzo Langford  and
yesterday by  Lori Grifa , Christie’s commissioner of community
affairs.  Christie, a first-term Republican, in July proposed taking
control of Atlantic City’s boardwalk and the area around its 11
seaside casinos to help them stay viable as competition grows
from new gambling houses in the mid-Atlantic region. Langford, a
Democrat who took office in January, said he welcomed the
oversight, which he said was worked out in a 15-minute
conference call with Christie and his staff yesterday.  “It’s advisory rather than compulsory,” he said. “We
can’t have too many eyes looking at the city finances.”  In return for the oversight, the state agreed to let the
city raise property taxes $2.2 million above the 4 percent cap
allowed under state law. It also gives city officials five years
to close their $9.5 million budget gap. The tax increase will
cost the average Atlantic City homeowner $157, according to a
 news release  from the governor’s office today.  The state’s Local Finance Board also approved the city’s
sale of $8.7 million in bonds to cover property-tax refunds due
to casinos and other property owners from 2008 and 2009.  In Trouble  Atlantic City, which has an annual budget of about $200
million, has been hurt by the economic slowdown and growing
competition from states such as Pennsylvania, New York and
Delaware. Six of the city’s 11 casinos went through bankruptcy
or restructured debt in the past year, and development has
stalled. Las Vegas is the biggest U.S. casino city.  Casinos account for 70 percent of Atlantic City’s property-
tax payments, according to the city’s budget consultant, Arthur
Bunting. The gambling houses took in $2.5 billion through the
first eight months of the year, 8.4 percent less than in the
same period of 2009, according to a Sept. 10 report from the
state’s  Casino Control Commission .  “The city and the state have been working very
cooperatively with one another,” Thomas Neff, director of the
state Division of Local Government Services, said during a Local
Finance Board meeting in Trenton today on Atlantic City’s tax-
increase request. “It’s just an effort to try to keep taxes as
low as possible for the business climate and the residents.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  