-- Nigerian Media Chief Dokpesi Freed After Questioning Over Abuja Bombings
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-10-05T09:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/nigerian-media-chief-dokpesi-freed-after-questioning-over-abuja-bombings.html
Nigeria’s state security police freed
 Raymond Dokpesi , head of former military ruler  Ibrahim Babangida ’s presidential campaign, after questioning him in
connection with the Oct. 1 car bombings in the capital, Abuja.  Dokpesi was released “late last night,” Kazeem Afegbua, a
spokesman for Babangida, said today by phone from Abuja. “He’s
been asked to come back today.”  Dokpesi, founder of Nigeria’s Africa Independent TV and Ray
Power FM radio, was held in connection with the blasts that
killed 12 people near the venue of the country’s 50th
independence anniversary parade, AIT said yesterday, citing
 Kanti Bello , a senator and another Babangida supporter. He was
implicated by two text messages found on the telephone handsets
of one of the suspects already in custody, Lagos-based  Guardian 
reported today, citing unidentified officials.  Afegbua said Dokpesi’s questioning won’t affect Babangida’s
plan to challenge President Goodluck Jonathan to secure the
ruling  Peoples’ Democratic Party  nomination for the presidential
election due early next year. “We’re more resolute now, more
than ever before,” he said.  Jonathan has promised to crack down on those responsible
for the explosions, which he blamed on “a small terrorist group
that resides outside” the West African country, and their
domestic sponsors.  Nine Arrests  Nine suspects have been arrested over the bomb attacks,
Marilyn Ogar, a spokeswoman for the state security service, told
reporters at a briefing in Abuja yesterday.  The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, or
MEND, which is seeking more resources for the country’s oil-
producing region, said it carried out the attacks.  Henry Okah , a
South Africa-based leader of MEND, was charged with terrorism in
a Johannesburg court yesterday in connection with the Abuja
attacks. Okah denies he committed any “unlawful acts in South
Africa or outside the country,” his lawyer, Piet du Plessis,
said yesterday.  Attacks by MEND and other armed groups cut more than 28
percent of the country’s oil output between 2006 and 2009,
according to Bloomberg data. While the attacks decreased after
thousands of fighters accepted a government amnesty last year,
MEND refused to disarm, saying its demands were not fully met.  Nigeria is Africa’s largest oil producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. oil imports. Its low-sulfur sweet crude
is favored by many U.S. refiners.  MEND wants states in oil-rich regions to keep all revenue
earned from crude sales and pay only taxes to the federal
government. The government in Abuja currently takes 87 percent
of the revenue and producing states receive 13 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  