-- TNK-BP Set to Buy BP Algerian Assets in Foreign Expansion
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-10-06T15:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/tnk-bp-poised-to-acquire-bp-s-algerian-fields-to-quicken-foreign-expansion.html
TNK-BP , the energy venture between BP
Plc and Russian billionaires, will look to acquire the London-
based company’s Algerian fields to accelerate overseas
expansion.  TNK-BP’s billionaire shareholder and interim chief
executive officer, Mikhail Fridman, said he hopes “their fate
is decided positively.” He spoke in Algiers, where he is
accompanying Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev .  Fridman  aims to build foreign operations so that at least
half the company’s production comes from outside Russia. The
company has already said it will bid for BP assets in Vietnam
and Venezuela. Expanding overseas will allow TNK-BP to double
its value per barrel of reserves to about $8 from $4 today, said
 Stan Polovets , chief executive officer of the billionaire
partners’ holding company AAR.  BP is the largest foreign investor in Algeria, according to
the company’s website. In addition to exploration acreage, it
operates two gas fields, Salah Gas in the Sahara Desert and
Amenas in the southeast of the country, and is a partner in the
Rhourde El Baguel oil field. Spokesman  David Nicholas  declined
to comment on whether BP will sell the assets.  Higher Multiples  “As soon as BP receives Algeria’s permission to transfer
the assets to TNK-BP, TNK-BP will take a serious look at these
assets,” Polovets said. Algerian assets would provide “a
launchpad for further expansion on the African continent,
particularly in North Africa.”  Discussions between BP and Algerian state oil company
Sonatrach on the transfer of assets are currently taking place,
Polovets said in an e-mailed response to questions.  TNK-BP and BP have a “gentlemen’s agreement” to give the
venture the first look at available assets, Deputy CEO Maxim
Barsky said in Algiers. Sonatrach and Norway’s Statoil ASA are
interested in buying out BP’s stakes in joint projects and have
rights of first refusal to do so, he said.  The venture may offer Sonatrach asset swaps to gain access
to projects, Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko told
reporters. He said no decision is expected on BP’s Algerian
assets for the next two months.  TNK-BP, owned 50-50 by BP and Russian investors, last week
received board approval to negotiate for the Nam Con Son gas
block, pipeline and facilities in Vietnam and oil assets in
Venezuela.  Tony Hayward , who stepped down as BP CEO on Oct. 1,
has taken a seat on the board of TNK-BP after pledging in July
to sell as much as $30 billion of BP assets to pay for the Gulf
of Mexico oil spill, the worst in U.S. history.  Vietnam Project  The Vietnam project will be offered to an affiliate first,
BP CEO Bob Dudley said on Oct. 4 in New Delhi.  “Integration of BP’s assets in Venezuela aligns well with
strong political Venezuela-Russia ties,” Polovets said. A final
decision on those and the Vietnamese assets will likely be made
“within a few weeks,” he said.  TNK-BP, Russia’s third-largest oil producer behind state-
owned  OAO Rosneft  and OAO Lukoil, accounts for about a quarter
of BP’s output and a fifth of reserves. TNK-BP produces about
1.9 million barrels of oil equivalent a day.  Fridman, the interim CEO until Barsky takes over next year,
said in a Bloomberg interview last month that TNK-BP should
“expand broadly in the world.” The push will be supported by
Russian President Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin,
Polovets said.  Moscow’s Position  “Moscow’s position is simple: if Russian companies become
stronger, Russia as a country becomes stronger,” Polovets said.
“The Russian leadership knows that by entering new markets,
TNK-BP and other Russian companies will gain new experience and
expertise that can then be applied to projects in Russia.”  The acquisitions may impact TNK-BP  dividends , though the
total payout this year will be around $3 billion, Polovets said.  While TNK-BP has paid out as much as 60 percent of net
income in dividends in the past, “this ratio could be slightly
lower in 2010 if a number of large asset transactions is
completed before year end,” Polovets said. “But nobody expects
it to fall below the minimum 40 percent.”  The Venezuelan and Vietnamese assets are worth “more than
$1 billion,”  Viktor Vekselberg , another of TNK-BP’s billionaire
shareholders, said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television.  “TNK-BP has sufficient cash flow and ample debt capacity
to pay for these assets. Finding the cash for these assets is
not going to be a problem,” Polovets said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Algiers at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  