-- Noisy Workplace Doubles Heart Risk, Worse for Men Under Age 50
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-10-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/noisy-workplace-raises-heart-risk-in-men-younger-than-50-researchers-say.html
People who work amid constant noise
have twice the risk of heart disease as those with quieter jobs.
Men younger than age 50 and smokers are the most vulnerable,
U.S. government data  shows .  Researchers tracked 6,307 Americans who took part in the
U.S.  National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ,
undergoing medical and blood tests and answering questions about
their health, lifestyle and work. Those with the noisiest
workplaces were more likely to suffer chest pain, a heart
attack, heart disease or high blood pressure, the report said.  The industries with the greatest risk were mining,
agriculture, construction and manufacturing, said lead
researcher Wen Qi Gan, from the  University of British Columbia ’s
school of environmental health in Vancouver. White-collar
workers, such as those on loud trading floors, may also be
vulnerable, he said. The investigators defined a loud workplace
as any environment where people had to raise their voices to be
heard, with one in five participants in the noisy category.  “People believe that heart disease belongs to older
people,” Gan said in a telephone interview. “We found that
young workers, those under 50, are most vulnerable to
occupational noise. For them, there is a three- to four-fold
increased prevalence in heart disease.”  The study was published in the journal  Occupational and
Environmental Medicine , based in London.  Ear Plugs Important  Ear plugs and other personal form of protection are
important, but offer only limited help, Gan said. Companies and
administrators in charge of loud environments should offer some
type of noise control, he said.  Previous investigations into heart risk and noisy
workplaces yielded mixed results. A Canadian study found high
rates of heart attacks and deaths in sawmill workers, while
another that involved men working in the nuclear power industry
in England found no ties to heart disease.  The latest study offers a large, nationally representative
sample that includes in-depth patient information, the
researchers said. The authors controlled for known heart risks
such as alcohol use and exercise and physical characteristics in
assessing the data. The results show constant exposure to excess
noise is an important workplace issue and deserves special
attention, they concluded.  The research was funded by the  Canadian Institutes of
Health Research .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  