-- Nokia's MeeGo Chief Quits in Second Exit Since Elop Appointment
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2010-10-05T16:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/nokia-s-meego-chief-quits-in-second-departure-since-elop-took-over-as-ceo.html
Nokia Oyj  said the head of its
project to develop a new mobile operating system with  Intel
Corp.  quit, in the second high-level exit since  Stephen Elop  was
named chief executive officer last month.  Ari Jaaksi , the head of the division working on the Linux-
based MeeGo operating system, will leave the company at the end
of October, spokeswoman  Eija-Riitta Huovinen  said. Last month,
 Anssi Vanjoki , Nokia’s smartphone division head, quit, saying
he’ll leave after the expiry of a six-month notice period.  The changes come as the world’s largest mobile-phone
company struggles to claw back ground lost in mobile devices to
 Apple Inc.’s IPhones  and handsets based on Google Inc.’s
Android software. Nokia last month named Elop, the former head
of Microsoft Corp.’s business division, as the company’s first
non-Finnish CEO, taking over from  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo .  “This is Elop sweeping a broom through the divisions,”
said  Lee Simpson , an analyst at Jefferies Intl Ltd. in London.
“He is a guy trying to put some new heads into the company and
realizes that the situation behooves a strategic change.”
      Nokia shares  rose 2.5 percent to 7.51 euros in Helsinki.  The company’s share of the world smartphone market declined
to 37.4 percent in the second quarter compared with 45 percent
in the same period last year, according to  Gartner Inc.   Last week, Nokia made the first shipments of its N8
smartphone, a touchscreen device designed to compete with
Apple’s iPhone and phones running Google’s Android software.  Replacement  Android, which is offered free to device manufacturers, is
now the most popular operating system for new smartphones in the
U.S., with the iPhone and Research In Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry
platforms tied for second place, Nielsen Co. said today.  The Meego software being developed by Nokia and Intel is
yet another attempt by the Finnish company to recover ground in
smartphones. Nokia has said it plans to start shipping devices
based on MeeGo this year. Jaaksi’s exit raises questions about
whether Nokia can deliver on that promise.  Peter Skillman, one of the designers of Palm Inc.’s WebOS
operating system, joined Nokia in September and could be a
candidate to fill Jaaksi’s position, Jefferies’ Simpson said.  Nokia’s Huovinen said the process of finding a replacement
has started.  Nokia, based in Espoo, Finland, lowered its  earnings 
forecast three times before managing to fulfil a pledge for a
third-quarter start for the N8, which runs the Symbian 3
operating system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net ; 