-- Nomura Opens New U.S. Stock Trading, Research Desk
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-10-07T12:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/nomura-starts-new-u-s-stock-trading-research-desk-update1-.html
Nomura Holdings Inc., the Tokyo-based
brokerage that’s  expanded  its global workforce by almost half in
two years, expanded U.S. equity trading and introduced stock
research in New York to compete for a bigger market share in the
Americas.  The company’s U.S. unit, Nomura Securities International
Inc., now provides customers with “full capabilities” to trade
stocks, exchange-traded funds, convertible bonds and
derivatives,  according to an e-mailed statement from Japan’s
largest brokerage.  Michael Nathanson , head of U.S. media-equity
research, initiated coverage on companies including Walt Disney
Co. and CBS Corp.  All securities will trade using the same trading technology
and infrastructure, according to the firm. Customers can use
Nomura’s electronic trading products and algorithms, or
computer-driven strategies, to transact stocks, according to the
statement.  Nomura has almost doubled its entire New York staff in a
year to about 1,800 and boosted the equities team to 430 from
about 50 in early 2009, according to  Peter Truell , a Nomura
spokesman. The company hired Bank of America Corp.’s  Ciaran O’Kelly  in July 2009 as head of equities for the Americas. The
firm said in May that it plans to offer research for 600
companies in the U.S. in a bid to boost revenue from the world’s
biggest equity market.  Goldman Sachs, Lazard  Nomura hired Bank of America’s  Michael Rietbrock  as head of
U.S. equity research in March. In addition to Nathanson, Nomura
has hired 10 analysts over the last six months, including  Brian Foran  of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as a senior analyst covering
U.S. banks and  Harry Curtis  of Lazard Capital Markets to cover
the U.S. gaming, hotel and leisure industries.  Nathanson initiated coverage of CBS, Disney, News Corp. and
Viacom Inc. with “buy” ratings and Time Warner Inc., Discovery
Communications Inc. and Scripps Networks Interactive at
“neutral.”  “The market’s concern over both the macroeconomic outlook
and the threat of ‘cord cutting’ (trading paid TV for Web-
delivered video) has created an attractive opportunity for
investors to buy U.S. media stocks,” Nathanson and analyst
 Brian Nowak  wrote in a note to clients.  Nomura ranks 15th among underwriters of U.S. investment-
grade corporate bonds this year, its highest on record,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg that shows rankings
since 1999. The bank was 26th in 2009, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 