-- Northern Irish Police Say Londonderry Car Bomb Caused `Substantial' Damage
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2010-10-05T12:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/northern-irish-police-say-londonderry-car-bomb-caused-substantial-damage.html
Northern Ireland  police  said a car
bomb that exploded outside a bank in Londonderry today caused
“substantial damage” to a retail complex, while nobody was
injured.  The bomb, packed into a Vauxhall Corsa car, exploded
shortly after midnight in the city, which is in the north-west
of the U.K. region, and a warning had been received beforehand,
police said today in an e-mailed statement. Police are unable to
determine the size of the bomb at this stage.  The Real Irish Republican Army said it planted the bomb,
the  British Broadcasting Corp.  said today on its website,
reporting that the group made a phone call to an unnamed
newspaper.  Dissident republicans who oppose Northern Ireland’s U.K.
link are attempting to re-ignite a three-decade long  conflict 
which claimed 3,500 lives before largely ending with a peace
deal in 1998. Last year dissidents shot dead two British
soldiers and a policeman and in August they exploded a bomb
outside a police station in Londonderry.  “The people behind these attacks on the local community
have absolutely no political case to argue,” Northern Ireland
minister  Owen Paterson  said in an e-mailed statement today.
“The progress that has been made in Northern Ireland over the
years has been hard won. They will not destroy that.”  Northern Ireland deputy first minister,  Martin McGuinness ,
whose  Sinn Fein  party shares power with the pro-U.K.  Democratic
Unionist Party  in the U.K. region’s 108-seat  assembly , condemned
the attack.  “Last night was an attack on ordinary working people in
Derry,” McGuinness said in an e-mailed statement. “The people
responsible need to reflect seriously on what they are doing and
they need to bring an end to these futile actions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  