-- Norway Considers Alternatives at Mongstad Carbon Storage Amid Health Risks
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2010-10-05T11:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/norway-considers-alternatives-at-mongstad-carbon-storage-amid-health-risks.html
Norway is evaluating alternatives for
its Mongstad carbon capture plant after results showed increased
health and environmental risks linked to the  amine  technology,
potentially delaying and raising costs at the project.  One of the methods chosen for Mongstad, north of Bergen, is
a post-combustion technique using amines, derivatives of
ammonia, to capture carbon dioxide from the flue gas.  Statoil
ASA  has submitted information suggesting an increased risk from
the technology, the Oil and Energy Ministry said today.  “In light of increased uncertainty about the amines,
health and environment, the government is considering whether to
use alternative solutions for the further implementation,” the
ministry said today in a  statement  in connection with the 2011
budget proposal.  The government will assess the information and return to
parliament with a detailed review before Christmas, Oil Minister
 Terje Riis-Johansen  said in the statement. The government also
today proposed spending 2.7 billion kroner ($460 million) next
year on developing CO2 capturing. The test center at Mongstad is
expected to cost 5.2 billion kroner when finished 2012.  An opening to alternative technologies may lead to a longer
implementation period and higher planning costs, the ministry
said. Amine technology may still be used, according to the
ministry.  Earlier this year, Riis-Johansen said there are
“considerable challenges” in building a carbon capture plant
at the Mongstad refinery and gas power plant, defending the
government’s delay of the project. The government has postponed
to 2014 a decision on investing in a full-scale CCS facility.  Utilities and energy companies are seeking ways to extract
carbon dioxide from emissions and store it underground rather
than release it into the air.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meera Bhatia  in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  