-- Swiss Stocks Rise for First Time in Seven Days; Lonza Gains
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-05T15:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/novartis-synthes-ubs-may-move-in-zurich-swiss-equity-market-preview.html
Swiss stocks rose for the first time
in seven days as gains in  Lonza Group AG  and  Roche Holding AG 
lifted the benchmark Swiss Market Index.  Lonza, the world’s largest maker of drug ingredients,
climbed 3.2 percent, while drugmaker Roche advanced 2 percent.
 UBS AG  rose 2.2 percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. said the bank
may boost its dividend.  The SMI of the biggest and most actively traded companies
increased 1 percent to 6,313.9 at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading
in Zurich. The broader Swiss Performance Index also gained 1
percent.  U.S. stocks fell yesterday as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
removed “buy” ratings on Microsoft Corp., J.C. Penney Co. and
Macy’s Inc. Deutsche Bank AG put Alcoa Inc. on its short-term
“sell” list before the largest U.S. aluminum company starts
the third-quarter earnings season on Oct. 7.  “Markets clearly overreacted on yesterday’s downward
revisions of Microsoft and Alcoa, so we are seeing a bit of
retracement,” said  Christian Blaabjerg , chief equity strategist
at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “We expect a strong-to-medium
earnings season that could lead equities higher in the short
term, but a possible retracement on renewed macro headwinds
towards the end of the year.”  The SMI has dropped 9.4 percent from this year’s high on
April 15 amid concern that a sovereign-debt crisis in Europe
will crimp economic growth and hurt the value of government bond
holdings at banks.  U.S. Economy  Service companies in the U.S. expanded at a faster pace
than projected in September, indicating the economic recovery is
picking up heading into the fourth quarter.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  non-manufacturing
index , which covers about 90 percent of the economy, rose to 52
from 51.5 in August, according to the median forecast of 75
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The gauge, where readings
greater than 50 signal growth, averaged 55.3 during the six-year
expansion that ended in December 2007.  Lonza jumped 3.2 percent to 86.85 Swiss francs. The stock
was raised to “overweight” from “market weight” at Zuercher
Kantonalbank.  Roche, which makes up 13 percent of the SMI’s weighting,
climbed 2 percent to 137.5 francs, its fourth gain in five days.
The world’s biggest maker of cancer treatments said in a
 presentation  released on its website that it’s on course for
“double-digit” growth in core earnings per share this year.  UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank, increased 2.2 percent to
16.94 francs. The company may boost its dividend after
accumulating enough capital to satisfy new Swiss requirements,
JPMorgan analysts said. It could pay out about 80 percent of
earnings in dividends from 2013.  Holcim Ltd. , the world’s second-biggest cement maker, rose
2 percent to 62.95 francs, paring six days of declines.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 