-- Russians Win Physics Nobel Prize for Graphene Material
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-10-05T15:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/novoselov-geim-share-2010-nobel-prize-in-physics-for-research-on-graphene.html
Two Russian-born scientists won the
 Nobel Prize  in Physics for discovering graphene, a one-atom-
thick “wonder material” that may transform electronics,
allowing for speedier computers and folding touchscreens.  Andre Geim , 51, now a Dutch citizen, and  Konstantin Novoselov , 36, both professors at the  University of Manchester 
in the U.K., will share the 10 million-Swedish kronor ($1.5
million) prize, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said today
in Stockholm.  Samsung Electronics Co.  and  IBM Corp.  are among the
companies working with the material, the thinnest and strongest
substance ever discovered. Nearly transparent yet dense,
graphene conducts heat and electricity, giving it potential uses
in light panels and computers, the academy said in a  statement .  In a “Friday afternoon experiment just for fun,” Geim and
Novoselov transcended what other physicists thought was possible
by producing the first two-dimensional material, Andrea Ferrari,
head of the nanomaterials and spectroscopy group at the
 University of Cambridge , said in a telephone interview.  “This material is simple, it is easy to make, and it has
properties far surpassing most other materials,” he said.  Geim and Novoselov used Scotch tape to obtain a layer of
carbon just one atom thick from a piece of graphite, the
substance found in pencils. Students still use the “Scotch tape
method” to obtain tiny flakes of graphene for research
projects, Ferrari said.  Satellites and Cars  “I didn’t expect the Nobel Prize this year,” Geim said by
telephone to a press conference in Stockholm. He said he planned
to go back to work today. “I just try to muddle on as before.”  Graphene was “hailed as a wonder material when the
discovery was made,” said Joseph Winters, a spokesman for the
London-based  Institute of Physics . The material is ideal for
uses in satellites and aircraft technology, he said.  Satellites, airplanes and cars could be made out of
plastics mixed with graphene, the Nobel academy said.  Touchscreens are “a good candidate” to be the first
consumer technology to use graphene, according to Ferrari.
Samsung developed a process to mass-produce graphene in 30-inch
dimensions, instead of tiny flakes, and developed a  touchscreen 
prototype, he said. Ferrari said he began collaborating with
 Nokia Corp.  last week to integrate graphene into a mobile phone.  Corporate Interest  Samsung is experimenting with graphene at the Samsung
Advanced Institute of Technology in Kiheung, South Korea. IBM
researchers  demonstrated  the world’s fastest graphene transistor
in a paper in the journal Science in February. Nokia is looking
at several potential applications of graphene in mobile
communications, according to spokesman Mark Durrant.  “We’re quite excited about this material but it’s not a
technology yet,” said Supratik Guhu, director of physical
sciences at Armonk, New York-based IBM, which has worked with
graphene for five years. “There is still a lot of work to be
done.” IBM’s program on radio-frequency transistors is funded
by the U.S. Department of Defense.  Geim declined to predict which application of graphene
might be the most important. “There are so many,” he said.  Novoselov is a Russian and British citizen. He began
working with Geim as a PhD student in the Netherlands, then
followed the older scientist to the U.K., according to the
academy’s statement.  Levitating Frog  Last year’s physics prize went to Charles K. Kao of the
Chinese University in Hong Kong and  Willard S. Boyle  and  George E. Smith  of Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, New Jersey, for
their work on fiber optics and digital imaging.  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
 Alfred Nobel , the Swedish inventor of dynamite, who died in
1896. In 1901 the first Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded to
Wilhelm Roentgen for his discovery of X-rays.  Geim said he was proud to be, as far as he knew, the only
scientist to win both a Nobel and an  Ig Nobel , an award given at
 Harvard University  for “achievements that first make people
laugh, and then make them think,” according to the prize’s
website. He and Michael Berry of the University of Bristol
shared the 2000 physics award for using magnets to levitate a
frog.  “It takes some courage to accept” an Ig Nobel, Geim said.
“Having both, I think it will help people to promote a sense of
humor in the scientific community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ; 