-- NTN to Boost Auto Parts Output in U.S., China to Reach $8.4 Billion Target
-- B y   A d a m   L e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2010-10-06T07:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/ntn-to-boost-auto-parts-output-in-u-s-china-to-reach-8-4-billion-target.html
NTN Corp. , the world’s third-biggest
bearing maker, will increase global output on rising demand from
automakers including Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. as it
targets boosting sales a third to 700 billion yen ($8.4 billion)
in three years.  The company plans to increase bearing production by 50
percent at a plant near  Chicago  starting in April as U.S. parts
makers lose ground,  Yasunobu Suzuki , chief executive officer,
said last week in an interview at NTN’s Osaka headquarters. It
will also boost output in China, India, Romania, Brazil and
Thailand to help combat the effects of the yen’s strength.  “We want to use local materials and local labor, so we
don’t have to worry too much about the effects of currency
fluctuations,” said Suzuki, 73.  NTN has had more than 40 new orders for car parts since
April, adding several billion yen to second-half sales, Suzuki
said, without giving a specific figure. The company, which
competes with Sweden’s  SKF AB  and Germany’s  ThyssenKrupp AG ,
targets a 16 percent increase in annual sales to 523 billion yen.
Over the past two years, NTN posted annual losses and revenue
fell 15 percent amid the global economic slowdown.  Net income for the six months ended September may have
“slightly exceeded” the company’s forecast of 7 billion yen,
Suzuki said. NTN in July raised its full-year forecast by 42
percent to 13.5 billion yen as worldwide demand recovered.  Car Sales Rebound  U.S. sales of cars and light trucks rose about 29 percent
during September compared with a year earlier, and have risen
more than 10 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Asian automakers including Toyota Motor Corp. and
Hyundai Motor Co. reported increased sales last month, and
Volkswagen AG, Europe’s largest automaker, sold 14 percent more
vehicles, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  NTN’s three-year plan, which starts in April and targets a
34 percent increase in sales, also includes building a research
and development center in Shanghai to meet demand in China, the
world’s largest auto market, as well as a new facility in
Chennai, India, Suzuki said.  “Eighty-three yen per dollar makes things extremely hard
for us,” said Suzuki.  The yen, which has risen 11 percent against the U.S. dollar
and 9.8 percent against the euro since NTN’s fiscal year started
in April, traded at 83.06 against the dollar as of 4:02 p.m. in
Tokyo. A stronger yen hurts overseas income at Japanese
companies when converted into their home currency.  Deming Prize  NTN’s stock closed 3.9 percent higher today at 377 yen on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the biggest increase in a month. It
has declined 9.6 percent this year compared with a 4.6 percent
drop in the 121-member Topix Machinery  Index .  NTN’s forerunners, Nishizono Ironworks and Tomoe Trading Co.
started sales of bearings in Osaka’s Nishi ward in 1923. The
company in 1954 was the first Japanese machinery maker to
receive the  Deming Prize  for quality control, according to NTN’s
website, and now employs about 18,000 people worldwide.  Suzuki said NTN is seeking new sales opportunities as U.S.
auto-parts makers see their market share shrink and
manufacturers in China and developing countries are starting to
demand higher-quality components.  NTN, whose  bearings  are also used in printers and food
production equipment, gained about 67 percent of its  sales  from
the components last fiscal year. Meanwhile, the proportion of
sales in Japan has  decreased  in each of the past five years,
ceding ground to the U.S., Europe and Asia.  “I don’t think the number of cars in Japan will
increase,” Suzuki said. “In China, people are starting to
drive luxury cars. As the yuan strengthens and the euro weakens,
we’ll start to see more of this phenomenon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Le  in Osaka at 
 ale14@bloomberg.net ;
 Masatsugu Horie  in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson in Osaka at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net . 