-- Obama Holds Summit on Community Colleges, Seeks 5 Million More Graduates
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-10-05T13:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/obama-holds-summit-on-community-colleges-seeks-5-million-more-graduates.html
President  Barack Obama  holds the
first White House summit highlighting the role that community
colleges play in educating workers, an effort boosted by a $35
million donation from the Bill and  Melinda Gates  Foundation.  The meeting, which includes representatives of businesses,
philanthropic groups and community colleges, is the second in
two days to focus on the role of institutions that Obama says
are crucial to future U.S. economic growth.  “These are students that you don’t think of: non-
traditional working students,” Melinda Gates, co-chair of the
 foundation  and wife of  Bill Gates , the billionaire chairman of
 Microsoft Corp ., said on NBC’s “Today” show this morning.
“They’re working students, they often hold down two jobs, they
have a child.”  The goal for the grant program is for those students to
“complete community college and get a job in the economy,” she
said.  Obama has set a goal of increasing the number of community
college degrees and certificates by 5 million in the next
decade. Yesterday he announced an initiative that links
companies including  McDonald’s Corp .,  Gap Inc .,  Pacific Gas &
Electric ,  Accenture Plc  and United Technologies Corp. with
community colleges for programs aimed at boosting the job skills
of American workers.  The president will be joined at today’s summit by  Jill Biden , wife of the vice president and a teacher at a community
college.  Investments  “This administration has committed unprecedented
investments” for community colleges, Biden told reporters
yesterday.  The $814 billion economic stimulus legislation signed by
Obama last year included more than $3.5 billion in community
college financial aid and $1 billion for community college
worker training programs.  The $35 million Gates foundation donation, called
“Completion by Design,” will provide grants to groups of
community colleges in nine states that develop plans to address
the needs of low-income students, the Seattle-based foundation
said yesterday in a statement.  Biden said community colleges have changed from decades
ago, when they were sometimes regarded as fall-back schools when
a student couldn’t get into a four-year college.  Community colleges are “a great secret,” Biden said on
the “Today” show. “We’re trying to say to America, ‘hey,
we’ve changed and look what we have to offer.”  The program Obama announced yesterday aims to create at
least one partnership between industry and community colleges in
each state.  “One of our most-undervalued assets as a nation is our
network of community colleges,” Obama said yesterday at a
meeting of his economic recovery advisory board. “These
colleges don’t just serve as a gateway to good jobs for millions
of middle-class Americans; community colleges also serve as a
pool of talent from which businesses can draw trained, skilled
workers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at =624=1884 or
 rrunningen@blooomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  