-- Obama Says Community Colleges Are `Unsung Heroes' of U.S. Education System
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-10-05T19:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/obama-says-community-colleges-are-unsung-heroes-of-u-s-education-system.html
President  Barack Obama  said community
colleges are the “unsung heroes” of the U.S. education system
and play a crucial role in training American workers to compete
in the global economy.  The U.S. is falling behind other nations in the number of
college graduates, and bolstering education is key to assuring
future prosperity, Obama said today at the first White House
summit on community colleges.  “We are in a global competition to lead in the growth
industries of the 21st century,” he said. “And that leadership
depends on a well-educated, highly skilled workforce.”  The summit was the second event in two days at which the
administration is focusing on community colleges a source for
training the U.S. workforce and increasing the nation’s
education levels. Yesterday Obama announced an initiative that
links companies including McDonald’s Corp.,  Gap Inc ., Pacific
Gas & Electric,  Accenture Plc  and  United Technologies Corp . with
community colleges to develop programs.  The effort is getting a boost with a $35 million donation
from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which will fund
grants to groups of the colleges in nine states that develop
plans to address the needs of low-income students.  The states, Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, Ohio,
New York, North Carolina, Texas and Washington, serve the
biggest populations of low-income students, according to a White
House fact sheet.  ‘Hidden Gems’  Melinda Gates , who spoke at the White House meeting, said
community colleges are “hidden gems” and are key to create
opportunities for low-income and non-traditional students.  Obama has set a goal of increasing the number of community
college degrees and certificates by 5 million in the next
decade.  As part of legislation Obama signed in March, the U.S. set
aside $2 billion for competitive grants to community colleges
over the next four years to augment skills-training focused on
the needs of industry. The Labor and Education departments will
award the first $500 million of the money over the course of the
next year.  In addition, the $814 billion economic stimulus legislation
signed by Obama last year included more than $3.5 billion in
community college financial aid and $1 billion for community
college worker training programs.  Partisan Differences  With elections to decide control of Congress a month away,
Obama also used the summit to criticize Republicans, who he said
have sharp policy differences with Democrats on education.  As he has at several recent events, the president again
accused Republicans of planning to cut education funding in
their election-year pledge to trim $100 billion from the $477
billion that lawmakers set for discretionary spending next year
while supporting extending tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans.  He said the Republican plan would result in reducing the
education budget by 20 percent and trim or eliminate financial
aid for 8 million students.  Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, called Obama’s figure “a made-up
number.”  No Specific Cuts  Michael Steel, a spokesman for the House Republican leader,
Representative  John Boehner  of Ohio, said the Republican plan,
named the Pledge to America, doesn’t include “any of the
specific cuts” cited by Obama.  “The president’s untrue talking points don’t change the
fact that the American people are asking, ‘where are the jobs’
and he has no new answers,” Steel said in an e-mailed response.  In opening the summit,  Jill Biden , the wife of Vice
President  Joe Biden , called community colleges “uniquely
American” institutions that open the doors to the middle class
for students that have few other opportunities.  “Today’s summit is an important next step in our efforts
to meet the president’s goal of having the best educated most
competitive workforce in the world by the end of this decade,”
Biden said. “Community colleges are at the center of America’s
effort to educate our way to a better economy.”  The White House session included includes representatives
of businesses, philanthropic groups and community colleges.  Community colleges get broad support from Americans,
according to a recent survey.  In the poll, by The Associated Press and Stanford University
and partially funded by the Gates Foundation, 71 percent of
Americans said it’s sometimes better for students to attend
community colleges instead of four-year universities.  Community colleges were also rated almost as highly as four-
year universities in their ability to prepare students for the
workforce, according to the poll.  The survey interviewed 1,001 American adults Sept. 23-30 and
has a margin of error of 3.9 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at =624=1884 or
 rrunningen@blooomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  