-- Obama Boosts Pledge 38% to Global Fund for AIDS, TB
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-10-05T22:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/obama-increases-pledge-to-global-fight-against-aids-tb-to-4-billion.html
The Obama administration boosted its
pledge to the  Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis & Malaria 
by 38 percent, to $4 billion, while urging changes to make the
organization more efficient and more accountable.  The contribution brings the total pledge from donor
countries to $11.7 billion over three years, the fund said in a
statement today. The U.S. money comes with requirements to
monitor how well the Global Fund’s programs work with local
populations, said  Eric Goosby , U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator, in
a conference call with reporters today. The U.S. will base
future donations on the group’s effectiveness, Goosy said.  President  Barack Obama ’s budget for global health,
announced in February, reduced the U.S. pledge to the fund, in
favor of expanding programs for child and maternal health.
Today’s increase signals to other nations that the U.S., the
fund’s largest donor, remains committed to distributing global
health aid through the Geneva-based organization.  “The unmet need is extraordinary,” Goosby said. “There
really is no stronger supporter to the global fund than the U.S.
That’s a fact.”  The Global Fund was started in 2002 to fight diseases
affecting the poorest nations. It’s responsible for providing a
quarter of international financing for AIDS, two-thirds for
tuberculosis and three-quarters for malaria, according to the
fund’s website.  France, Japan Pledges  The U.S. was the first and largest contributor, giving more
than $5.1 billion since the fund’s inception. Today’s pledge
followed increases from France and Japan and is being welcomed
by the AIDS community, said  Mitchell Warren , executive director
of the New York-based AIDS Vaccine Advocacy Coalition, a
nonprofit group, in an interview.  “U.S. funding is a bellwether,” Warren said in a
telephone interview. “This is an endorsement, showing that
there’s not a single funding mechanism the U.S. is committed to,
but several.”  The demand that the fund develop a clear plan of timelines
and measures of progress creates a “carrot and stick” approach
to the pledge that will help make the agency more effective,
Warren said.  The New York-based advocacy group Health GAP released a
statement saying the funding was insufficient to meet the
challenge of the AIDS pandemic. The group expressed “profound
disappointment” with the U.S. pledge, saying Obama “had the
opportunity to lead the world toward sufficient funding for AIDS
and failed to do so.”  More Therapy  The Global Fund estimated that with the U.S. assistance
announced today, the group will be able to increase the number
of AIDS patients on antiretroviral therapy 75 percent by 2015,
to 4.4 million, according to a statement from the U.S. State
Department.  Yearly tuberculosis treatments will almost triple to 3.9
million, from 1.4 million last year, the agency said. The number
of bed nets for malaria prevention will triple to 110 million.  The $11.7 billion pledged today is more than a 20 percent
increase over the $9.7 billion announced in 2007. It falls short
of the $13 billion needed to maintain funding to current
programs and the $20 billion required to expand them, Doctors
Without Borders said.  “Ambitious country programs, which could mean the
difference between life and death, may no longer be feasible,”
said Jennifer Cohn, an AIDS policy adviser for Doctors Without
Borders, in a statement. “This decision will result in the
death of millions of people from otherwise treatable diseases.”  Plans Postponed  Michel Kazatchkine , the fund’s executive director, said
that while all current programs will continue, some plans for
expansion will have to be postponed. He said the fund would have
to abandon for now plans to target maternal and child health.  “If it were the last word, it is not enough,” Kazatchkine
told reporters. “The effort of scaling up will slow down,
compared to what we were hoping for. We may face difficult
decisions. We will have to redouble our efforts.”  Other contributions to the fund included $1.48 billion
from France, $822.4 million from Germany, $800 million from
Japan, and $528.4 million from Canada. More than 40 nations, the
European Commission, foundations and companies made pledges. San
Ramon, California-based  Chevron Corp. , the second-largest U.S.
oil company, pledged $25 million.  “At a time when many governments are tightening their
belts at home, these commitments send a powerful message,” UN
Secretary-Ban Ki-moon said. “It shows how seriously world
leaders want to do the right thing beyond their borders.”  Still, Ban said the shortfall means the fund would have to
seek “other sources” of income, including companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 