-- Obama Says Flexible Workplace Not Only Women’s Issue
-- B y   T r a c i   M c M i l l a n
-- 2010-10-06T00:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/obama-says-workplace-flexibility-isn-t-only-a-women-s-issue-.html
President  Barack Obama  said making
workplace rules flexible isn’t only a women’s issue, telling a
gathering of female executives in Washington that family-
friendly policies help a company’s bottom line.  “We know that companies with flexible work arrangements
can actually have lower turnover and absenteeism and higher
productivity,” Obama told guests at a dinner for Fortune
magazine’s Most Powerful Women conference. “This is not just a
women’s issue, or just a work-family balance issue. It’s an
economic competitiveness issue.”  Obama told the business leaders that steps their companies
have taken on issues such as child care and flexible work
arrangements, along with those taken by his administration on
child-care tax credits and paid leave, have opened opportunities
in the workplace.  “Today, women make up half of America’s workforce, they
are primary or co-breadwinners in two-thirds of our families,
their contributions are vital to the success of our economy,”
he said. “Girls like my daughters, young women like the ones at
this dinner, have opportunities that my grandmother never
dreamed of for herself.”  The president told the executives they also have a duty to
nurture the “ambitions and aspirations” of future
entrepreneurs and leaders, while the government has a role to
play in improving the nation’s education system, upgrading the
nation’s infrastructure and promoting exports.  Innovation and Enterprise  “Part of the competitiveness of America’s economy, the
richness of its cultural life, has always depended on the
innovation and enterprise of American businesses,” he said.
“Of course, that doesn’t relieve government of its
responsibility to create the conditions for businesses to
succeed.”  The invitation-only event brought women together to discuss
building business, reputation, philanthropy, mentoring and
globalization.  Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , chairman of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. , spoke to the group earlier today, which Obama
noted in his remarks.  “I also see that my friend Warren Buffett is here,” Obama
said. “I understand that even though he’s a man, he’s been
invited back year after year, because he knows that the surest
path to success is to surround yourself with brilliant women.”  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  and  Indra Nooyi , chairman and
chief executive officer of  PepsiCo Inc. , also addressed the
gathering. Nooyi topped Fortune’s 50 Most Powerful Women list
for acquiring two of PepsiCo’s largest bottlers. Among the other
speakers were  Lloyd Blankfein ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s
chairman and CEO, and  Irene Rosenfeld , chairman and CEO of  Kraft
Foods Inc.   U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will deliver the
event’s keynote address tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Traci McMillan  in Washington at 
 tmcmillan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  