-- Och-Ziff Sues London Firm for Impersonation, Name Use
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-10-05T16:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/och-ziff-sues-london-firm-for-impersonation-name-use-correct-.html
Och-Ziff Capital Management Group ,
the New York-based hedge-fund firm run by  Daniel Och , is suing a
London investment adviser and its founder to block the use of
the Och name.  Och-Ziff’s European unit asked a London court for an
injunction to stop  OCH Capital LLP  and its founder  Thomas Ochocki  from using the first portion of its name. It is also
seeking damages for trademark infringement and passing itself
off as the New York firm, which has more than $26 billion in
assets under management.  Guy Hollingworth , a lawyer for Och-Ziff, said today at the
start of a two-day trial in London that OCH Capital’s
cooperation “has been totally unsatisfactory and inexcusable.”  Michael Cohen , the chief executive officer of Och-Ziff
Management Europe Ltd., testified about the importance of Europe
to the firm’s business, saying Och-Ziff has 50 percent of its
assets under management outside of the U.S. and 40 percent of
its investors in Europe. It has about 65 employees in the U.K.
and manages $1.5 billion in assets for people there, Cohen said.  A lawyer for OCH Capital,  Alistair Wilson , said the London-
based firm pronounces its name as initials, and offered to Och-
Ziff to clarify that late last year.  “Our client said they were willing to change to O.C.H. to
make it clear that it was pronounced O-C-H,” Wilson said at the
first day of the trial. “That was rejected.”  First Three Letters  OCH Capital is named after the first three letters of its
founder’s name, Wilson said. At a previous job as a trader,
Ochocki became known by the letters O-C-H, Wilson said, and is
still referred to as that because his name is hard to pronounce.  There was “no intention to cause any confusion at all”
with Och-Ziff, Wilson said. He apologized to Judge  Richard Arnold  for initially failing to comply with court orders and
said the firm is now cooperating.  Och-Ziff was started in 1994 by former  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  trader Och, 49, and Ziff Brothers Investments LLC with
money from the Ziff media empire. OCH Capital has been operating
in the U.K. since April last year, according to the Financial
Services Authority’s  register .  The case is Och-Ziff Management Europe v. OCH Capital LLP,
case no. 112/10, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division
(London).  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 