-- Hochtief Asks Regulator to Require ACS to Make Offer for Leighton Shares
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2010-10-05T22:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/hochtief-asks-regulator-to-require-acs-to-make-offer-for-leighton-shares.html
Hochtief AG , rallying allies in its
defense against a takeover bid from  Actividades de Construccion
& Servicios SA , sought approval from Australia’s securities
regulator that would require ACS to make an offer for the
outstanding shares in Leighton Holdings Ltd.  Hochtief asked for an “application for relief” to the
Australian Securities and Investments Commission which, if
approved, would mean ACS would have to make an offer for shares
in Leighton that Hochtief doesn’t own, the Essen, Germany-based
company said in a statement yesterday.  “This isn’t about putting a stop to the takeover, but
about looking after the best interest of Leighton’s
shareholders,” Hochtief spokesman  Christian Gerhardus  said. If
ACS’s stake in Hochtief reaches 35 percent, it would
“effectively be in control,” of the company, Gerhardus said.  Hochtief is working to formulate a defense strategy against
ACS, which already owns close to 30 percent and wants to raise
its stake to slightly more than 50 percent over time. Hochtief
management and workers representatives have said the bid adds no
value and have sought political support to thwart the approach.  Michael Fuchs , the economic spokesman for Chancellor  Angela Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union, said yesterday “politics
shouldn’t get involved in this for it’s purely a matter of the
shareholders and the executives of the two companies.”  It is within ASIC’s discretion to decide whether the relief
is granted and in what form and therefore whether ACS is
required to make a takeover offer for Leighton, Hochtief said in
the statement.  Takeover Law  Hochtief, the market capitalization of which is 4.47
billion euros ($6.2 billion), owns 54.5 percent of Leighton. The
Australian builder is valued at A$10.3 billion ($10 billion).  The German company’s chances to repel ACS are limited
because the Spanish builder is making a public offer to all
shareholders in compliance with German takeover law.  ACS is bidding eight of its own shares for five Hochtief
shares, in a proposal that values Hochtief stock only slightly
above the minimum price set by German market rules for a full
takeover.  Hochtief has mandated Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche
Bank AG to assist it with its defense strategy, together with
Credit Suisse Group AG, which was already an adviser prior to
the approach. The builder is also being advised by law firm
Hengeler Mueller, and the supervisory board hired law firm
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer as an adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Ragnhild Kjetland  in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net  