-- Hochtief Cry for Political Aid in ACS Defense Draws a Blank With Merkel
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2010-10-05T09:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/hochtief-cry-for-political-aid-in-acs-defense-draws-a-blank-with-merkel.html
Hochtief AG’s  attempt to recruit
political allies for its defense against a takeover bid from
Spain’s largest builder isn’t catching on with Germany’s ruling
party, which said the companies should resolve the matter alone.  “Politics shouldn’t get involved in this for it’s purely a
matter of the shareholders and the executives of the two
companies,”  Michael Fuchs , the economic spokesman for
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic Union, said in a
telephone interview today. “I don’t endorse this becoming a
matter for the government.”  Hochtief is working to formulate a defense strategy against
Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA, which already owns
close to  30 percent  of Germany’s largest builder and wants to
raise its stake to just over 50 percent over time. Hochtief
management and workers representatives have said the bid adds no
value and have sought political support to thwart the approach.  Hochtief has been in touch with Merkel’s office in Berlin
to inform the Chancellery about the takeover bid.  Economy Ministry spokesman  Tobias Pohl  told reporters in
Berlin yesterday that companies are “generally responsible for
their own affairs.” The works council at Hochtief plans to hand
over a protest letter to Spain’s ambassador in Berlin and will
meet with German government officials, Siegfried Mueller, head
of the council, said yesterday.  The German builder’s chances to repel ACS are limited
because the Spanish builder is making a public offer to all
shareholders that complies with German takeover law. ACS is
bidding eight of its own shares for five Hochtief shares, in a
proposal that values Hochtief stock only slightly above the
minimum price set by German market rules for a full takeover.  Hochtief has mandated Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche
Bank AG to assist it with its defense strategy, together with
Credit Suisse Group AG, which was already an adviser prior to
the approach. The builder is also being advised by law firm
Hengeler Mueller, and the supervisory board mandated law firm
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer as an adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net 
HOT GY <Equity> CN
ACS SM <Equity> CN
LEI AU <Equity> CN 