-- Lockheed Loses Defense Approval of F-35 Cost-Tracking
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-10-05T22:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/lockheed-loses-pentagon-certification-of-f-35-cost-system-on-deficiencies.html
The system used by No. 1 defense
contractor  Lockheed Martin Corp. ’s aircraft unit to track
aircraft costs and schedules has lost its Pentagon certification
because of persistent deficiencies, a Defense Department
spokeswoman said.  De-certification of the Fort Worth, Texas-based unit’s so-
called “earned value management system” was intended to “help
ensure Lockheed Martin devotes the needed attention to
complete” corrective actions “in a timely manner,” Pentagon
spokeswoman  Cheryl Irwin  said in an e-mailed statement today.  Major U.S. military suppliers are required to use earned
value systems to track spending, comparing actual costs and
performance against projections so the Pentagon and companies
can spot looming overruns. Lockheed Martin’s system is used to
track cost and schedules of the $382 billion F-35 fighter, the
Pentagon’s most expensive weapons program.  Lockheed Martin spokesman  John Kent  said in an e-mail the
company was notified yesterday of the de-certification.  “This action does not affect our ongoing work” on a plan
to take corrective action “and does not reflect any new
findings,” Kent said.  One measure for awarding future contracts is the
reliability of a company’s system for keeping track of
government funds.  Reinforcing Accountability  The Pentagon action reinforces Lockheed Martin’s
responsibility “to deliver what it agreed to under the terms of
the contract, and reinforces that accountability,” Irwin said.  The company’s system was deficient in 19 of 32 areas, Irwin
said. The Fort Worth unit estimates it will take until November
2011 to complete its corrections, she said in the statement.  “The government is evaluating its options with regard to
any further courses of action it may wish to take,” Irwin said
without elaborating.  Pentagon procurement director  Shay Assad  in a June 16
interview said the Pentagon would start withholding payments
from Lockheed Martin if its corrective action plan was deemed
unacceptable. Assad was traveling today and couldn’t be reached
for comment.  The action against Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin
comes as Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  is seeking to improve
contract efficiency, reduce overhead and lower costs of weapons
programs.  The cost-tracking systems range from measuring the amount
of work performed against available dollars to monitoring the
purchase of goods and services from subcontractors.  Withholding Funds  A pending revision to the Pentagon’s acquisition
regulations would give contracting officers authority to
withhold funds for deficient business systems.  The final regulation should be published within two months,
Irwin said. “The new rule will provide an effective tool to
hold contractors accountable to correct deficiencies,” Irwin
said.  Lockheed’s system has been under review since the Pentagon
in November 2007 audited its performance at a Fort Worth plant
where the F-35 is built.  The Pentagon’s latest evaluation found that most of
Lockheed Martin’s business units “have made good progress in
addressing deficiencies” with their systems, Irwin said.  Still, “the Fort Worth unit continues to make inadequate
progress,” Irwin said.  Completing Corrections  “The need for this action is warranted given the magnitude
of the issues, the length of time -- three years -- that the
issues have persisted” and the projected November 2011 date for
completing corrections, Irwin said.  Assad said in the June interview that he has cautioned
senior Lockheed contracting officials that the Pentagon might
withhold fees.  Lockheed’s Aeronautics unit, which includes its plant in
Fort Worth, had $12.2 billion in 2009 net sales, or about 27
percent of the company’s $45.1 billion total. The unit also
accounted for 34 percent of Lockheed’s 2009 operating profit.  Lockheed rose $1.25 today, or 1.8 percent, to $70.60.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  