-- Ohata Urges China to Export More Rare Earths as 124 Firms Face Shortages
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2010-10-05T05:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/ohata-urges-china-to-export-more-rare-earths-as-124-firms-face-shortages.html
Japan, the world’s biggest  importer 
of rare earths, will urge China to improve shipments of the
minerals after a government survey showed that 31 Japanese
buyers reported problems with exports.  “It’s too early to judge if China resumed rare-earth
exports,” Trade Minister  Akihiro Ohata  said in Tokyo today,
citing the survey. Japan plans to ask China to resolve the
problems through its embassy in Beijing, Ohata said.  China, which controls more than 95 percent of global rare-
earth supply, imposed a de facto ban on exports to Japan last
month, Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said Sept. 28, as ties
between the two nations soured. The diplomatic and trade
friction followed the detention of a Chinese captain whose ship
collided with Japanese Coast Guard vessels in disputed waters.  The Japanese companies reported difficulties in applying
for export licenses and customs clearance because of tightened
cargo inspections, according to the survey, which was released
by the  Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry . A total of 152
were surveyed, with 66 replies between Sept. 28 and Sept. 30.
The companies were not identified.  The problems with rare-earth shipments from China had
increased since Sept. 21, according to the survey, citing
responses from the companies. The Chinese trawler, captain and
crew were seized after the collision on Sept. 7. Japan released
the 14 crew and allowed the boat to leave on Sept. 13. The
captain was held for 17 days.  Customs Applications  Chen Rongkai , a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Commerce,
said on Sept. 28 that the nation hadn’t imposed a ban. The Asahi
newspaper  reported  a day later, citing unidentified Japanese
companies, that the ban was lifted when the Chinese government
began accepting customs applications.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  met yesterday in Brussels to resolve the dispute, the
most serious since 2005, when Chinese protested against the
content of Japanese textbooks. The 25-minute meeting was “very
good,” Japanese Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  said today.  Japan depends on China for 90 percent of its rare-earth
supply, according to data from the trade ministry. The minerals
are used in radar, high-powered magnets, computer hard drives,
catalytic converters, electric-car batteries and wind turbines.  Mining Rights  On Oct. 1, Japan’s trade ministry disclosed measures to
secure stable supplies of rare earths, including stockpiling,
developing technology to reduce the use of the minerals and
support for Japanese in acquiring overseas mining rights in
countries such as Vietnam and Kazakhstan.  The trade-ministry survey also showed that 124 companies
reported delays in customs clearance for imports and exports of
other items including auto parts, construction machinery,
chemical products and electronics. These problems had increased
since about Sept. 20, according to the survey.  China reduced its quota for rare-earth exports to 7,976
metric tons for the second half of this year compared with a
quota of 22,283 tons for the first half and 28,417 tons for
second half of last year, according Japan’s trade ministry.  Foreign Minister Maehara said on Oct. 1 that any ban by
China on rare-earth exports would violate  World Trade
Organization  rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Emi Urabe  in Tokyo at 
 gonomitsu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  