-- Toyota, Honda Race Daimler to Gain Hybrid Foothold in Europe
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-10-06T04:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/honda-toyota-race-daimler-for-hybrid-foothold-in-europe-before-new-rules.html
Toyota Motor Corp.  and  Honda Motor Co. 
are rushing to exploit their advantage in hybrid systems to make
inroads in Europe. Daimler AG and PSA Peugeot Citroen plan to
stop them before they have the chance.  Toyota began selling the U.K.-built  Auris compact hybrid  in
Europe in July and will add the Lexus CT 200h, a hybrid
hatchback designed for the region, in 2011. Honda will roll out
a Jazz hatchback hybrid in Europe next year, adding to three
gasoline-electric models it already sells in the region.  Asian carmakers aim to use their edge in hybrid vehicles to
gain traction in Europe, where their market share is sinking, as
stricter emissions standards make the technology more attractive.
European carmakers, more reliant on diesel engines, are
intensifying research to catch Toyota, whose 1997 gasoline-
electric Prius was the world’s first hybrid.  “There was a sea change with regard to European carmakers’
attitude toward hybrids two or three years ago,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive Management at the
University of Applied Sciences in Bergisch-Gladbach, Germany.
“It’s a long-distance race, but the technological advantage of
the Japanese can be made up.”  Attractive Alternative  Hybrids are becoming an attractive alternative to diesel
because new European standards taking effect in 2014 require
carmakers to cut nitrogen-oxide emissions for diesel engines by
56 percent to 80 milligrams (0.003 ounce) per kilometer (0.62
mile). Few diesel cars now comply with the new regulations,
which will raise development and production costs, while
standards for gasoline engines and hybrids won’t change with the
tighter rules known as Euro 6.  “There will of course be an impact on prices from Euro
6,” PSA Peugeot Citroen spokesman  Jean-Marc Sarret  said by
phone. But with several years to go, “it’s impossible to say
what the impact will be.”  Shares in Toyota  fell  0.8 percent to 2,950 yen, and Honda
shares dropped 0.2 percent to 3,010 yen, as of 12:50 p.m. in
Tokyo trading.  Toyota and Honda are betting the legislation can help them
succeed in Europe, a market where they have struggled to make
gains. The combined eight-month share of Asian automakers in the
region was 16.6 percent, while  Volkswagen AG , the region’s
largest carmaker, had a share of 21.3 percent.  Diesel Penalty  “One of the big things in Euro 6 is the relatively harsh
penalty on diesel,” said  Colin Couchman , a London-based analyst
at IHS Automotive. “That could get the Asians a foot in the
door of the European market.”  Toyota, which has been selling cars in the region since
1963, saw its eight-month European market share slip 0.6
percentage point to 4.4 percent, after it recalled about 1.3
million cars in Europe in January to fix sticky pedals linked to
unintended acceleration. Honda’s share dropped to 1.3 percent
from 1.7 percent, according to data from the European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association, or ACEA.  “Europe is probably one of the most difficult markets to
get into and be successful if you are non-European,” said  Koji Endo , a Tokyo-based analyst at Advanced Research Japan.
“Hybrids will help the Japanese carmakers make up some ground
in a market where they continue to suffer.”  Government Incentives  Incentives from governments may also help boost hybrid
sales. France offers 2,000 euros ($2,770) toward the purchase of
a hybrid, while the U.K. exempts gasoline-electric models from
central London’s 8 pounds ($12.70) a day “congestion charge.”  Toyota, based in Toyota City, Japan, sells the Auris hybrid
for 22,950 euros in Europe, compared with 20,500 euros for the
diesel engine version and 19,500 euros for the gasoline model.  Implementation of Euro 6 regulations from September 2014
may help raise the share of hybrid and electric vehicles in
Europe to 13 percent by 2020 from about 0.1 percent today, IHS
estimates. Along with the Auris and Lexus CT 200h, Toyota will
begin building a small hybrid in France from 2012. Honda’s Jazz
will come on top of Insight, Civic and CR-Z gasoline-electric
models.  Diesel, which emits less carbon dioxide and offers better
mileage than regular gasoline cars, accounts for about half of
car sales in Europe, where gasoline prices are almost  doubled by
taxes , according to the Brussels-based ACEA. In Germany,
Europe’s biggest market, customers pay 0.66 euro of tax per
liter (0.25 gallon) of gasoline.  “Whether hybrids will become dominant remains to be seen,
but hybrids will gain on diesel as the advantages are many,”
 Koei Saga , who manages Toyota’s hybrid technologies program,
said at the Paris Motor Show last week.  European Hybrids  European carmakers are also stepping up their hybrid
efforts. Daimler has been developing its own hybrid technology
after a partnership with  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and General
Motors Co. ended. The Mercedes-Benz maker sells hybrid versions
of the ML sport-utility vehicle and S-Class sedan and plans to
introduce a diesel-hybrid E-Class next year. Last week Peugeot
showed the world’s first diesel-electric car in Paris.  Asian carmakers may need more than hybrids to dent the
European market. They lag behind locally based rivals in styling
and handling in a region with strong national brand loyalty,
said  Ashvin Chotai , a London-based analyst at Intelligence
Automotive Asia Ltd.  Asian carmakers haven’t paid Europe much attention as they
chased U.S. profits, Chotai said.  Europe is a “a market we can’t run away from,” said
 Yoichi Hojo , Honda’s chief financial officer. “It’s painful,
but we have to be there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  