-- Hong Kong Sales of Homes Decline 41% in September After Government Curbs
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-10-05T07:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/hong-kong-sales-of-homes-decline-41-in-september-after-government-curbs.html
Hong Kong’s home sales in September
fell from an almost three-year high after the government
tightened mortgage rules and pledged to boost land supply to
cool prices.  Transactions fell 40.5 percent to HK$41.2 billion ($5.31
billion) from HK$69.2 billion in August, the  Land Registry  said
on its website today. By volume, the number of residential units
changing hands fell 29 percent to 10,424 in the month from
14,699, according to the government department.  Hong Kong’s home prices have  surged  more than 48 percent
since the beginning of 2009 on record low mortgage rates and an
influx of wealthy mainland Chinese buyers, according to
Centaline Property Agency Ltd. The government on Aug. 13 raised
down-payment ratios and said it will sell more land for
development amid concerns housing is becoming unaffordable.  “The signals in the market are mixed,” said Louis Chan,
managing director for residential sales at Centaline, Hong
Kong’s biggest privately held real estate brokerage, before
figures were announced. “Some potential buyers are waiting to
see if the government will announce more measures to bring down
prices. On the other hand, owners are reluctant to sell their
properties at discounts.”  Hong Kong Financial Secretary John Tsang said in a speech
in London yesterday that he’s boosting land supply as part of a
policy to reassure people that the housing market can grow in a
more “healthy” way.  The value of home transactions last month was 26.7 percent
lower than a year earlier, while the volume was 15 percent lower
than September 2009.  Used homes in 10 of Hong Kong’s biggest private housing
projects fell 23 percent in September from a month earlier,
Centaline said.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.  and  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. ,
Hong Kong’s two largest developers, sold more than HK$11 billion
worth of new properties over the National Day holiday long
weekend ended Oct. 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  