-- Moody's Changes Its Outlook on Turkey's Ratings to Positive From Stable
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   P e t e r   B r a n t o n
-- 2010-10-05T07:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/moody-s-changes-its-outlook-on-turkey-s-ratings-to-positive-from-stable.html
Moody’s Investors Service raised the
outlook on Turkey’s Ba2 local and foreign currency bond ratings
to positive from stable citing improvements in the  economy  and
debt management.  “Turkey’s economy has proven to be unexpectedly robust and
has recovered to pre-crisis levels,” said New York-based
Moody’s analyst  Sarah Carlson  in an e-mailed report today. The
country’s deficit and debt levels have improved beyond targets
in the government’s medium-term economic program, she said.  Turkey says credit default swaps and other indicators show
that the country’s debt rating should be raised by S&P, Moody’s
and Fitch Ratings Ltd. Moody’s upgraded Turkey to Ba2 in
January, two levels below investment grade and S&P increased its
ranking in February to BB. Fitch raised its rating to BB+ in
December, or one step below investment grade.  The benchmark  ISE National 100  index in Istanbul climbed as
much as 1.1 percent to 66,117.29 after Moody’s made the
statement, nearing a record high. It rose 0.5 percent at 10:12
a.m.  Two-year lira bonds  gained, with yields falling 4 basis
points to 7.99 percent. The lira reversed earlier losses, rising
0.1 percent to 1.4531 per dollar.  “We expect Moody’s and S&P to upgrade Turkey post-elections
so in a year-long window we expect them to catch up,” said
 Turker Hamzaoglu , a London-based economist at Bank of America
Corp.-Merrill Lynch & Co., said in a telephone interview. “For
Turkey to become investment grade there are three main issues:
inflation, whether the current account is under control, and how
the government handles fiscal policy without a fiscal rule or
the IMF.”  Moody’s revised its forecasts for economic growth in Turkey
this year to 6.5 percent and to 5 percent in 2011, Carlson said.
Parliamentary elections are due in Turkey by July 22 next year.  The economy grew an annual 10.3 percent in the second
quarter, which matched China’s as the fastest expansion in the
period among the Group of 20 major economies, the state
statistics agency in Ankara said on Sept. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Branton  at 
 pbranton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 