-- Moody’s Sees ‘Upside’ to Greek Ratings on Fiscal Gains
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-05T10:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/moody-s-sees-upside-ratings-risk-if-greece-pursues-its-financial-reforms.html
  Greece ’s drive to overhaul its public
finances has “impressed” Moody’s Investors Service and the
risk to the country’s sovereign rating forecast “is to the
upside” if the reforms continue.  “We’ve been impressed by what the Greek government has
done in term of reforms,”  Anthony Thomas , a London-based senior
analyst at the ratings company, said today at a credit
conference in Warsaw. “If that continues, the risk to the
forecast is to the upside.”  Moody’s cut Greece’s credit rating to non-investment grade
on June 14 as the country struggled to rein in the euro region’s
second-biggest deficit. Moody’s cited “substantial” risks to
economic growth from the austerity measures tied to a 110
billion-euro ($134.5 billion) aid package from the European
Union and the International Monetary Fund in downgrading the
rating to Ba1 from A3.  Greek stocks extended gains today, with the Athens
benchmark index adding as much as 1.7 percent. It was 1 percent
higher at 12:34 p.m. in Athens, the most of 17 western European
benchmarks.  National Bank of Greece SA , the country’s largest
lender, added 1.4 percent to 7.48 euros.  The premium investors charge to hold Greek 10-year bonds
rather than those of  Germany ,  Europe ’s benchmark, rose 1 basis
point to 778 basis points.  Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou said yesterday the
country’s budget deficit will narrow to 7 percent of economic
output in 2011, about half of last year’s level, after the
government cut spending and raised taxes to secure the EU-led
rescue and avoid default. When it requested the rescue in May,
the government forecast a deficit of 7.6 percent in 2011.  Greece is seeking to return to bond markets next year after
investor concern that the country would default on 300 billion
euros of debt led to a surge in borrowing costs and prompted the
EU-led rescue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  