-- Ireland's Rating May Be Downgraded by Moody's on Banks
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   L o u i s a   F a h y
-- 2010-10-05T08:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/moody-s-places-ireland-aa2-credit-rating-on-review-for-possible-downgrade.html
Ireland’s credit rating may be cut by
Moody’s Investors Service after the government pledged as much
as 50 billion euros ($68.6 billion) to save the country’s banks.  Ireland’s Aa2 rating will “most likely” be cut by one
level if a downgrade goes ahead, the company said in a statement
today. A downgrade by Moody’s, which will finish its review
within three months, will bring Ireland’s rating into line with
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  “We’re monitoring the banking system, which we now see has
led to additional capitalization needs,”  Dietmar Hornung ,
Frankfurt-based Moody’s analyst, said in a phone interview,
adding the government won’t need outside aid. “The focus is on
Ireland’s ability to recover financial strength.”  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said on Sept. 30 the
cost of repairing the country’s financial system may ultimately
rise to about a third of gross domestic product. The country’s
deteriorating finances have fueled investor concerns it would
become the first government after Greece to tap the 750 billion-
euro rescue fund set up by the European Union and International
Monetary Fund to stanch the debt crisis.  “On the back of all the banking troubles, the rating
agencies are trying to figure out the impact on the public
finances,” said  Michael Leister,  a fixed-income analyst at
WestLB AG in Dusseldorf. “There may be some slight
underperformance, but we don’t expect a massive selloff.”  Help Not Needed  The yield spread between Irish 10-year debt and that of
Germany, Europe’s benchmark, was at 406 basis points today after
widening to a record 449 basis points on Sept. 28. The
government last month canceled bond auctions in October and
November, saying the state is fully funded through the first
half of 2011.  “The liquidity situation is good,” Hornung said. “ There
are no short-term liquidity concerns, so outside help isn’t
needed.”  The finance ministry will publish a four-year plan next
month that aims to narrow the deficit to below the European
Union limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product by the end of
2014. Ireland’s government deficit as a percentage of gross
domestic product will likely rise to a record 32 percent this
year, Lenihan said  Standard & Poor’s cut Ireland’s credit rating one step to
AA- on Aug. 24, while Fitch has a AA- rating. Ireland’s debt
level will peak at 120 percent of gross domestic product in 2014
“if everything goes well,” Danske Bank said Sept. 30.  Anglo Irish  Ireland has pumped 22.9 billion euros into Anglo Irish Bank
Corp. since it seized the lender in January 2009 as its bad
loans soared following the collapse of a real-estate bubble. The
bank may need up to an extra 6.4 billion euros of capital,
rising by another 5 billion euros in the event of unexpected
losses. Lenihan said last week the government will take a
majority stake in a second lender,  Allied Irish Banks Plc.   Ireland’s economy is weakening even as the government
prepares to bailout the banks again. The economy will expand 0.2
percent this year instead of 0.8 percent forecast in July, the
Dublin-based central bank said in its quarterly bulletin
yesterday. It lowered its growth forecast for next year to 2.4
percent from 2.8 percent.  “On the one hand, it is necessary to outline additional
measures to tackle the budget deficit,” Hornung said. “That
said, we have to monitor potential feedback on economic growth,
particularly regarding domestic demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  