-- Turkey's Bonds Rally as Moody's Upgrades Outlook on Economy, Debt Levels
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-10-05T08:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/moody-s-upgrades-outlook-on-turkey-s-debt-ratings-to-positive-from-stable.html
Turkish  bonds  gained, sending yields
to their lowest level in a year after Moody’s Investors Service
upgraded its outlook for the country.  Yields on benchmark two-year lira bonds fell 5 basis points
to 7.98 percent as of 11:02 a.m. in Istanbul, the lowest level
since October 2009. The lira strengthened 0.4 percent to 1.4487
per dollar.  Moody’s changed the outlook on Turkey’s Ba2 local and
foreign-currency government bond ratings to “positive” from
“stable,” saying the country’s economy had returned to pre-
crisis levels and its debt management had improved. The Turkish
economy grew an annual 10.3 percent in the second quarter, which
matched China’s as the fastest expansion in the period among the
Group of 20 major economies, the state statistics agency in
Ankara said in September.  “Moody’s finally, finally opted to do the decent thing,”
 Tim Ash , head of emerging-market research at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London, wrote in an e-mailed note. “It is
frankly ludicrous that Turkey is rated behind the European
Union’s weak links, i.e. Hungary, Latvia and perhaps even
Romania. Moody’s should move fast to get the rating anomaly out
of the way.”  Turkey says credit default swaps and other indicators show
that the country’s debt rating should be raised by Standard &
Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch Ratings. Moody’s upgraded Turkey to
Ba2 in January, two levels below investment grade and S&P
increased its ranking in February to BB. Fitch raised its rating
to BB+ in December, the highest non-investment grade rating.  The benchmark ISE National 100 index in Istanbul has
climbed 25 percent this year, compared with a 10 percent
increase for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  