-- Orascom Telecom Jumps Most in 4 Months on VimpelCom
-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2010-10-05T15:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/orascom-telecom-jumps-most-since-may-in-cairo-after-vimpelcom-phone-deal.html
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE  gained
the most in four months after its largest shareholder, Weather
Investments SpA, agreed to merge its telephone assets with
Russia’s  VimpelCom Ltd.   Shares of the Middle East’s biggest mobile-telephone
company by subscriptions jumped 5.6 percent to 5.48 Egyptian
pounds at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, the biggest gain since
May 30.  “The euphoria and excitement around the deal is driving
investors,”  Alia Khalil , senior equity trader at Cairo-based
Pharos Securities, said in a telephone interview before the
market opened.  VimpelCom will own Weather Investments SpA’s 51.7 percent
stake in Egypt’s Orascom Telecom Holding SAE and all of Italian
mobile operator Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA. Weather shareholders
will get 20 percent of new VimpelCom shares valued at $4.7
billion at current prices and $1.8 billion in cash.  The deal would create the world’s fifth-largest mobile-
telephone company with a combined subscriptions base of more
than 174 million and give VimpelCom, which has operations in
many of the former Soviet republics, access to markets in Africa
and the Middle East.  Orascom Telecom will set up a company to manage its assets
in Egypt and North Korea, which were not included in the merger,
Chairman  Naguib Sawiris  said at a news conference in Cairo
today. The new company will be established within “the next few
weeks” and will be listed on Egypt’s bourse, Sawiris said.  The shares of  Egyptian Co. for Mobile Services , Orascom
Telecom’s Egyptian mobile telephone unit not included in the
VimpelCom merger, gained 2.1 percent to 190.36 pounds, the
highest level in five months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  