-- China May Limit Phosphate-Fertilizer Exports After Stock Drop, Mosaic Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-10-05T20:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/mosaic-says-china-may-restrict-phosphate-fertilizer-exports.html
China may restrict exports of
phosphate-based fertilizers after record shipments in July and
August reduced domestic inventories, said  Mike Rahm ,  Mosaic
Co. ’s chief market strategist.  “Government officials are increasingly concerned about the
availability of phosphate products for domestic farmers and are
closely monitoring the situation,” Rahm said today on a
conference call with investors and analysts. “We believe
officials will take whatever measures are necessary, including
more restrictive export policies, to ensure adequate supplies of
competitively priced phosphate for domestic farmers.”  The prices of  diammonium phosphate  and other phosphate-
based fertilizers have soared since June as grain futures rose
amid concern about the impact of adverse weather conditions on
crops in western Canada and Russia, Chief Executive Officer  Jim Prokopanko  said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Mosaic, North America’s second-largest fertilizer producer,
yesterday reported fiscal first-quarter profit that trailed
analysts’ estimates after saying its long-term phosphate supply
contracts restricted its ability to fully capitalize on price
gains.  Earnings per share in the three months through August were
67 cents, trailing the 71-cent  average estimate  of 18 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Still,  net income  nearly tripled to
$297.7 million from $100.6 million, or 23 cents a share, a year
earlier, Plymouth, Minnesota-based Mosaic said in a statement.
Sales increased 50 percent to $2.19 billion.  Prices Rise  Diammonium phosphate was sold for $431 on average in the
quarter, 55 percent more than a year earlier, Mosaic said in the
statement. Sales of phosphates rose 6.9 percent to 3.1 million
tons because of strong demand in North America and Brazil.  Diammonium phosphate  prices for immediate delivery in
Florida have increased 66 percent this year.  Mosaic, 64 percent owned by closely held Cargill Inc., rose
$2.01, or 3.4 percent, to $60.80 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have gained 1.8 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net . 