-- Most Hong Kong Stocks Fall as Sun Hung Kai, Cheung Kong Drop; Cnooc Gains
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-10-05T05:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/most-hong-kong-stocks-fall-as-sun-hung-kai-cheung-kong-drop-cnooc-gains.html
Hong Kong  stocks  fell as property
stocks declined after the city’s financial secretary said he is
increasing land supply, while exporters dropped as analysts cut
ratings on U.S. companies ahead of earnings season.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , Hong Kong’s biggest developer
by market value, slumped 3 percent after the Standard newspaper
reported its chairwoman said she reorganized the company’s
family trust. Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., the No. 2 developer,
slipped 3.3 percent after Hong Kong Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said he’s boosting land supply as part of a policy for
“healthy” housing-market growth.  Li & Fung Ltd.  declined 1.2
percent as U.S. investment-rating cuts triggered caution.  The  Hang Seng Index  fell 0.4 percent to 22,529.07 at the
midday-trading break, after rising 1.2 percent yesterday to a
10-month high. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of so-
called H shares of Chinese companies slid 0.2 percent to
12,589.05. Chinese markets are shut this week until Oct. 8 for
holidays.  “People are taking profits at this point after yesterday’s
surge,” said  Francis Lun , general manager at Fulbright
Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “With China’s market being closed,
it boosted turnover in Hong Kong and a lot of money flew into
the market.”  Sun Hung Kai Properties  dropped 3 percent to HK$131.70.
Chairwoman Kwong Siu-hing said she reorganized the family trust
that controls the company to make the family of son Walter Kwok
a beneficiary rather than Kwok himself, Hong Kong’s Standard
newspaper reported, citing a statement from Kwong.  House Prices  Other Hong Kong developers also fell. Cheung Kong declined
3.3 percent to HK$114.90.  Sino Land Co. , controlled by
billionaire  Robert Ng , slid 1.2 percent to HK$16.36, and
 Henderson Land Development Co. , the builder controlled by
billionaire  Lee Shau-kee , lost 1.5 percent to HK$55.10. A
measure of property shares was the biggest drag on the Hang Seng
Index, and the sharpest decline among the gauge’s four industry
groups.  Hong Kong Financial Secretary John Tsang, speaking at an
event at the London School of Economics in London, said he is
increasing land supply as part of a policy to reassure people
that the housing market can grow in a more healthy way.  The Hong Kong government has announced a series of measures
since October last year to rein in home prices that have  surged 
46 percent since the beginning of 2009 on the back of record-low
mortgage rates and an influx of mainland Chinese buyers.  Exporters Fall  Hong Kong exporters fell after analysts cut ratings on U.S
companies ahead of earnings season, raising concern the outlook
for corporate profits is deteriorating.  Li & Fung , the biggest supplier to retailers including Wal-
Mart Stores Inc., retreated 1.2 percent to HK$41.75.  Techtronic
Industries Co. , maker of Hoover vacuum cleaners and Ryobi power
tools that got 76 percent of its fiscal 2009 revenue from North
America, sank 4.3 percent to HK$7.55.  Yue Yuen Industrial
Holdings Ltd. , which makes shoes for Nike Inc., fell 0.2 percent
to HK$28.90.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 0.1
percent. The index lost 0.8 percent in New York yesterday after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its ratings on  Microsoft  Corp., J.C.
Penney Co. and Macy’s Inc. Deutsche Bank AG put  Alcoa Inc.   on
its short-term “sell” list before the largest U.S. aluminum
company starts the third-quarter earnings season on Oct. 7.  “There’ll be concerns about earnings at U.S. companies,
which start to report later this week,” said  Toshiyuki Kanayama ,
a market analyst at Tokyo-based Monex Inc. “That will raise
concern about earnings at companies” in other regions.  Aircraft Delay  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.  dropped 1.8 percent to HK$21.45
after the South China Morning Post reported the carrier’s
freighter fleet may shrink next year because the start of
deliveries of Boeing Co. 747-8F aircraft on order has been
delayed to August from January, citing unidentified officials at
the company.  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s third-largest oil producer, advanced
0.5 percent to HK$15.86. Altona Energy Plc announced it has
agreed with Cnooc’s parent company, China National Offshore Oil
Corp., to approve a coal-to-liquids study in Australia. Cnooc
was the third-biggest contributor to the Hang Seng Index.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index dropped 0.3 percent to
22,565. Almost four stocks in the index fell for each that rose
on the 45-member gauge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 