-- Houston Ship Channel Opens to Inbound, Outbound Ships
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e   a n d   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2010-10-06T16:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/houston-ship-channel-to-be-closed-until-tomorrow-update1-.html
The Houston Ship Channel, which
serves the largest U.S. petroleum port, opened for inbound
tankers and all outbound traffic after crews lowered the damaged
electrical tower that closed the waterway, the Coast Guard said.  Exiting vessels were allowed to move at 2:30 a.m. local
time, Brook Milstead, a petty officer with the U.S. Coast Guard,
said in a telephone interview. The waterway opened to deep-draft
vessels, such as crude oil tankers, entering the channel at 7:03
a.m. Two deep-draft vessels have passed through the channel and
are headed to Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s  Deer Park refinery  and a
terminal owned by Oiltanking GmbH, he said.  The waterway is still closed to inbound tugs and barges.
Waiting to enter the channel were 34 vessels, according to the
Coast Guard. About 21 ships were waiting to leave.  A four-mile stretch of the channel connecting the Gulf of
Mexico to the Port of Houston was closed Oct. 3 when a barge
under tow struck the tower, which supported power lines crossing
the waterway. Tankers use the channel to deliver crude oil to
refineries in the Houston-Texas City-Baytown area that make up
about 13 percent of U.S. refining capacity, said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  CenterPoint Energy Inc. , which owns the tower, finished
lowering the structure and removing its power lines today, said
 Leticia Lowe , a spokeswoman.  Priorities Set  Tankers bound for four refineries were to be given priority
once the shipping lanes reopened, according to Marcus Woodring,
the Coast Guard’s Houston and Galveston sector commander. Those
were  Valero Energy Corp. ’s Houston refinery, Shell’s Deer Park
plant, Pasadena Refining Systems Inc.’s refinery and
 LyondellBasell Industries NV’s  268,000-barrel-a-day plant.  Downstream operations at Shell and its joint venture Motiva
Enterprises LLC, including the Deer Park and Port Arthur plants,
aren’t affected, said  Ted Rolfvondenbaumen,  a Shell spokesman.  Pasadena Refining wasn’t expecting any crude shipments
until after the ship channel was projected to reopen and the
closure of the channel won’t affect plant operations, said
Sophie Gates, a Houston-based spokeswoman for Petroleo
Brasileiro SA, said in an e-mail. The Pasadena refinery is
operated by a unit of Rio De Janeiro-based company.  The delay in opening the shipping channel isn’t expected to
have “any adverse impact to our refining operations,” said
 David Harpole , a spokesman for Lyondell, which can receive crude
oil shipments at locations other than refinery docks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Samantha Zee  in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net :
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 Aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  