-- Overseas Inflows a `Problem' for Emerging Economies, India's Gokarn Says
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2010-10-05T14:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/overseas-inflows-a-problem-for-emerging-economies-india-s-gokarn-says.html
India’s central bank Deputy Governor
 Subir Gokarn  said overseas inflows are becoming a “problem”
for emerging  economies and forcing governments to think of ways
to stem capital flows.  “It is becoming a larger global problem because there is
so much liquidity and returns are skewed toward the emerging
economies,” Gokarn told a business conference in Mumbai today.
Inflows are “emerging as a potential threat and we are clearly
thinking of ways in which we can deal with it.”  Countries from South Korea to Brazil are stepping up
attempts to control their currencies on record investments in
emerging markets. The rupee has risen 8.1 percent in the past
month making it the best performing among 10 Asia-Pacific
currencies outside Japan tracked by Bloomberg.  The Indian currency touched 44.23 to a dollar yesterday,
the highest level in more than five months, after central bank
data showed capital inflows more than offset a record  current-
account  deficit in the three months to June 30.  Overseas  funds  bought a net  19.2 billion rupees  ($432.5
million) of Indian equities yesterday, extending this year’s
record inflows to 930 billion rupees. The flows have pushed the
benchmark  Sensitive index  to the highest level in more than 2
1/2 years.  South Korea, Brazil  Gokarn said the central bank is keeping a watch on capital
flows and will respond if needed.  “Our view is that when we see signs of disruption caused
by capital inflows and the impact of it on the domestic market
exchange rate, that is the basis to respond,” he said.  India’s  capital account  showed a surplus of $17.5 billion
in the three months through June, compared with a shortfall of
$13.7 billion in the current account, the  Reserve Bank of India 
said in a Sept. 30 report.  Regulators in Seoul will start an audit of lenders handling
foreign-currency derivatives on Oct. 19 to curb volatility
caused by capital flows, the finance ministry said today. Brazil
doubled a tax it charges foreigners on investments in fixed-
income securities to 4 percent yesterday.  The yen fell the most in three weeks after the Bank of
Japan cut benchmark interest rates and pledged 5 trillion yen
($60 billion) to buy bonds and other assets, having sold $25
billion worth of its own currency last month in the first
intervention since 2004.  The Korean won climbed 8 percent in the past three months
to the strongest since May and Brazil’s real gained 4.7 percent
to a two-year high. Investors have plowed a record $49.4 billion
into emerging-market stock funds this year and $39.5 billion
into bond funds, EPFR Global data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  