-- Toyota Plans Low-Cost Car for China, India, Thailand
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2010-10-05T08:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/toyota-to-sell-21st-century-corolla-in-thailand-funo-says.html
Toyota Motor Corp.  will sell a low-
cost car in Thailand, adding to plans to introduce similar
models in China, India and Brazil as the world’s biggest
carmaker seeks to boost growth in emerging markets.  The vehicle will be the “21st century Corolla,” Executive
Vice President  Yukitoshi Funo  said in an interview yesterday,
referring to the world’s best-selling car that Toyota introduced
in 1966. “We have to enter the large-volume zone” in emerging
markets, Funo said.  While Toyota is the leading carmaker in Thailand, its sales
in fast-growing economies including India and Brazil lag behind
rivals. Adding cheaper models may also help the company raise
sales in  China , the world’s largest auto market, where its 6.9
percent share this year through August trails leader  Volkswagen
AG’s  13 percent.  “We want to provide a car that is in reach of working
people,” Funo said in Tokyo.  Unlike  Nissan Motor Co. ’s March and Micra compacts designed
for both developed and emerging markets, Toyota’s low-cost car
will target “a newly emerging middle class” in developing
countries, Funo said.  The Toyota City, Japan-based automaker rose 0.4 percent to
close at 2,975 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The stock has
declined 23 percent in 2010.  Etios  In India, the car will be called the Etios and go on sale
in December. A 5-door hatchback version may be priced at about
450,000 rupees ($10,070), while the sedan version may cost an
additional 80,000 rupees, said Deepesh Rathore, managing
director of IHS Global Insight India.  Toyota’s  Corolla  is sold in 52 countries, and cumulative
global sales have reached more than 36 million vehicles in the
44 years since its introduction, according to the company.  While pricing the new, cheaper car in the range of
competitors’ low-cost models, Toyota won’t necessarily undercut
rivals, rather providing “additional value” with car quality
and after-service maintenance, Funo said.  “Toyota faces a conundrum: do you want to sell a lot of
cars or preserve your brand image?” said  Ashvin Chotai , London-
based managing director at Intelligence Automotive Asia Ltd.
“It’s a careful balance of the two.”  Corolla Altis  In India, where the tagline for the 1 million-rupee  Corolla
Altis  sedan is “Designed to inspire envy,” Toyota sold 50,315
vehicles in the eight months through August. Market leader
 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.  sold 577,296, according to researcher
J.D. Power & Associates.  The Innova minivan, Toyota’s cheapest model in the nation,
starts at 834,464 rupees, almost double the expected price of
the Etios, which will likely compete with  Maruti  Suzuki’s Swift,
which starts from 405,341 rupees in New Delhi, HIS Global’s
Rathore said.  Toyota sold 197,959 vehicles in Thailand during the same
period.  Lowering procurement costs to a competitive level is a
“top priority,” Funo said.  In China, as the lower end of the market is expanding, so
is the luxury sector. Toyota is adding new Lexus models in the
country and plans to introduce the high-end Alphard minivan,
Funo said, without specifying the timing.  “Lexus actually sells better in China than in Japan,” he
said.  Myanmar Venture Stake  Separately,  Toyota Tsusho Corp. , an affiliate of Toyota,
has sold its share of a venture in Myanmar.  Katsutoshi Yokoi, a Toyota Tsusho spokesman in Tokyo,
confirmed the stake sale, declining to comment on the timing or
reason, citing an agreement with parties involved.  Toyota Tsusho in June sold its stake in the venture, which
builds cars and motorcycles with Myanmar’s military regime,
because of the country’s poor human-rights record, Reuters
reported earlier today.  The company, based in Nagoya, Japan, is 22 percent owned by
Toyota Motor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  