-- Paladino Calls Sheldon Silver a `Criminal' for Protecting Insurance Firms
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-10-05T19:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/paladino-calls-new-york-state-assembly-speaker-sheldon-silver-a-criminal-.html
New York  Republican candidate for
governor  Carl Paladino  called Assembly Speaker  Sheldon Silver 
“a criminal” who has protected the insurance industry to
benefit his private law practice.  “The man’s a criminal, OK?” Paladino, 64, said today at a
breakfast forum in Manhattan sponsored by Crain’s New York
Business. “He’s never said how much his income is or how he
earns it. You can just look at it and smell there’s something
wrong when we in New York have the highest insurance rates in
the country.”  Paladino said Silver, 66, a Manhattan Democrat and partner
in the law firm Weitz & Luxenberg, controls the Legislature like
a dictator. He said he would refuse to sit down with Silver and
negotiate a budget on the speaker’s terms. He added that if the
Legislature didn’t present him with a financial plan by the
March 31 deadline, he would shut the government except for
public health and safety agencies.  New York legislators in August approved a $136 billion
budget that was four months late. The budget was the latest
since 2004, when it wasn’t approved until Aug. 11, a record 133
days into the fiscal year.  ‘Baseless Hectoring’  “It is unfortunate that New Yorkers are being forced to
endure the insulting and baseless hectoring of the Republican
candidate for governor,” Silver said in a statement. “I will
not get into the gutter with Mr. Paladino, nor dignify his
comments with a response.  Rather, I will let New Yorkers judge
his fitness for public office.”  A Siena Research Institute poll released today showed about
60 percent of likely voters agreed that Paladino is “a loose
cannon, who doesn’t have the temperament to be governor.”
Voters favored his opponent, Democrat  Andrew Cuomo , by a margin
of 56 percent to 32 percent.  In prepared remarks at the breakfast forum, Paladino
pledged to cut income taxes by 10 percent, or $3.3 billion, and
corporate capital gains by $1 billion. The third-most populous
U.S. state faces a projected $8.2 billion budget deficit next
year.  He would close that gap with $10 billion to $12 billion in
spending cuts, including $5 billion from the state’s $13 billion
tab for  Medicaid services  to the poor; abolishing and
consolidating state agencies; and dismantling the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, operator of New York City subways,
commuter trains and buses, and some bridges and tunnels.  Serving Notice  “I’m going to take the MTA apart piece by piece,” he
said, adding that if elected he would fire  Jay Walder , the
agency’s chairman.  Paladino, a real estate developer from Buffalo running with
Tea Party support, said he could revamp state government because
he owes no one any favors, having won the Republican nomination
in a self-financed primary election. He said he intended to
serve just one four-year term.  “I’ll do my job in four years,” he said. “I can because
I’m not beholden to anybody and I don’t care about being re-
elected, and I don’t have to join the pay-to-play club to build
up my campaign fund to run for re-election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  