-- Petters Group Bankruptcy Trustee Sues Ark Royal to Recoup $1.2 Million
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/petters-group-bankruptcy-trustee-sues-ark-royal-to-recoup-1-2-million.html
The bankruptcy trustee for Petters
Group Worldwide LLC, seeking to recoup $1.2 million for
creditors, sued the Houston-based investment firm Ark Royal
Capital LLC.  Ark Royal allegedly invested at least $35 million in the
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company in the months before it was
searched by federal agents in September 2008. Principal  Thomas Petters  was arrested nine days later.  While Petters Group was insolvent, it improperly repaid Ark
Royal the $1.2 million, according to a complaint filed yesterday
by Chapter 11 Trustee Douglas Kelley in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Minneapolis.  “The transfer occurred just six days prior to the raid and
execution of multiple search warrants by federal authorities,”
according to Kelley’s complaint.  Thomas Petters was convicted by a federal court jury in St.
Paul, Minnesota, of leading a $3.5 billion fraud scheme.
Prosecutors said he conned investors to underwrite fake consumer
goods purchase orders and then used the money to support his
lavish lifestyle. He was sentenced in April to 50 years in
prison.  At its peak, Petters Group owned Sun Country Airlines Inc.
and Polaroid Corp. until the government raid.  Ark Royal is accused by Kelley of receiving preferential
and potentially fraudulent transfers from Petters Group. Calls
to Ark Royal seeking comment after regular business hours
yesterday weren’t immediately returned.  The bankruptcy case is In Re Petters Co., 08-45257, and the
adversary proceeding is Kelley v. Ark Royal Capital LLC, 10-
04325, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Minnesota
(Minneapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 