-- Philippines May Keep Key Interest Rate at Record-Low 4% as Inflation Ease
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2010-10-05T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/philippines-may-keep-key-interest-rate-at-record-low-4-as-inflation-eases.html
The Philippine central bank will
probably keep borrowing costs at a record low as easing
inflation gives it room to support growth amid signs the global
economic recovery is slowing.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will keep its  benchmark
interest rate  unchanged at 4 percent for an 11th straight
meeting tomorrow, according to 15 of 16 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News. One predicted an increase of a quarter of a
percentage point.  The Philippines has kept its key rate unchanged for more
than a year, helping  growth  accelerate to a three-year high in
the second quarter. Indonesia and Australia refrained from
raising interest rates while Japan cut borrowing costs this week
as the region’s policy makers shift their focus to supporting
their economies after some moved to counter inflation and asset
bubbles earlier this year.  “We’ve seen inflation surprising on the low side, which
has reinforced the central bank’s comfortable inflation
outlook,” said  Euben Paracuelles , a Singapore-based economist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The Philippines has an ambitious
growth target for next year so they will want to keep rates
steady to help support the target.”  President  Benigno Aquino , who took office in June, plans to
increase government spending to a record next year to expand the
economy by 7 percent to 8 percent  annually  from 2011. He’s
seeking to boost incomes in a nation where the World Bank
estimates one out of four people live on less than $1.25 a day.  Inflation Cools  Philippine  inflation  eased to a 10-month low last month,
with consumer prices rising 3.5 percent from a year earlier, a
report showed yesterday. The central bank has said it expects
price gains to be within its targets for this year and next.  Policy makers “can consider keeping our policy rates
steady given that no other developments will happen that will
change our assessment,” on inflation, Deputy Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  said last month.  The Asian Development Bank last week raised its 2010
economic growth forecast for the region and said governments
should sustain the expansion by refraining from tightening
fiscal and monetary policies “too quickly.”  The Bank of Japan yesterday unexpectedly cut its benchmark
rate for the first time since 2008, while Australia and
Indonesia left their key rates unchanged. Europe’s services and
manufacturing industries grew at the slowest pace in seven
months and retail sales unexpectedly declined, reports showed
this week.  Capital Inflows  “There will be a case going forward that they may have to
raise rates, maybe next year,” Paracuelles said. For now, “the
central bank will think it is really unnecessary for them to
start hiking policy rates at this point, particularly in an
environment where capital inflows are starting to be an issue,”
he said.  Faster Philippine growth, which quickened to 7.9 percent in
the second quarter, is attracting investors to the nation’s
assets, driving the peso to a two-year high this week as the
 benchmark stock index  rose to a record.  Coca-Cola Co. said last week it would boost investments in
the Philippines by $1 billion over five years to expand its
production and distribution, as well as develop new products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  