-- Service Industries in U.S. Probably Expanded at Faster Pace
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-05T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/pickup-at-u-s-service-industries-probably-not-enough-to-quicken-recovery.html
A pickup at service industries in
September probably wasn’t strong enough to quicken the U.S.
recovery, economists said before a report today.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  non-manufacturing 
index, which covers about 90 percent of the economy, rose to 52
from 51.5 in August, according to the  median forecast  of 75
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The gauge, where readings
greater than 50 signal growth, averaged 55.3 during the six-year
expansion that ended in December 2007.  “The economy is still in a vulnerable state,” said  Aaron Smith , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics in West Chester,
Pennsylvania. A lack of jobs and the drop in home prices mean
consumer spending will be slow to recover, he said.  A  jobless rate  that is projected to average more than 9
percent through 2011 indicates household spending will not
propel the economy as it has after past recessions. A halting
recovery is one reason why some Federal Reserve policy makers
say they are prepared to do more to stimulate growth.  The Tempe, Arizona-based purchasing managers’ group is
scheduled to issue the report at 10 a.m. New York-time.
Estimates ranged from 50 to 53.3.  The services survey covers industries that range from
utilities and retailing to health care, housing, finance and
transportation. The group’s factory survey, released Oct. 1,
showed  manufacturing  expanded last month at the slowest pace
since November as orders and production cooled.  More Promotions  Best Buy Co. , the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, announced Sept. 28 it plans to offer a promotion on
every Friday in October to spur sales of phones. The Richfield,
Minnesota-based company also plans to keep holiday hiring even
with last year, adding about 29,000 seasonal employees.  “We know it is a tough environment out there,” Best Buy
Co. Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn  told reporters Sept. 28.
“It will be hard fought.”  Charles “Wick” Moorman, chief executive officer of
 Norfolk Southern Corp. , the second-largest U.S. railroad by
market capitalization, is projecting the recovery from the worst
recession since the 1930s, while muted, will continue.  “We saw a fairly sharp snap-back as 2009 went on and early
in 2010 that seems now to have slowed,” Moorman said in a Sept.
29 interview on Bloomberg Television. We’re just going to
continue to see a slow-growth economy for some time to come.”  Moorman said his company is adding workers mainly to
replace those leaving the railroad, with “some slight hiring”
to meet growing demand. The Norfolk, Virginia-based company’s
payroll remains down about 2,000 from where it was when the
recession began, he said.  Rising Joblessness  The Labor Department later this week may report
unemployment rose to 9.7 percent in September from 9.6 percent
the prior month, according to the median  estimate  of economists
surveyed. Companies added 75,000 workers to payrolls, according
to the survey median, not enough to keep up with a growing labor
force.  Economists surveyed last month projected the unemployment
rate will average 9.6 percent this year and 9.2 percent in 2011,
after averaging 9.3 percent in 2009. That would be the longest
span of joblessness above 9 percent since 1941.  The labor market is also a reason why Fed policy makers may
respond with more stimulus. The outlook for job growth and
inflation is “unacceptable,” and more monetary easing is
probably needed to spur growth and avert deflation, Fed Bank of
New York President  William Dudley  said in a speech Oct. 1.  Some retailers are more optimistic about the holiday
shopping period. The International Council of Shopping Centers
on Oct. 1 projected sales for November and December will climb 3
percent to 3.5 percent, the best performance since 2006. The New
York-based trade group tracks sales at stores open at least a
year at more than 30 chains.  Investors may be equally upbeat as retailing shares
outperformed the broader market last month. The Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite  Retailing Index  gained 15 percent in
September compared with an 8.8 percent increase in the  S&P 500 .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  