-- Polish Yields to Drop at First Sale of 2013 Bonds, PKO, SocGen, ING Say
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/polish-yields-to-drop-at-first-sale-of-2013-bonds-on-supply-pko-ing-say.html
Poland’s borrowing costs may fall at
an auction of a new series of two-year bonds today as the supply
of debt offered by one of Europe’s fastest-growing economies
falls, according to PKO Bank Polski SA and ING Bank Slaski SA.  The government plans to offer between 2 billion zloty ($700
million) and 3 billion zloty of bonds maturing in January 2013.
The average yield will probably be 4.65 percent, PKO, ING and
Societe Generale SA predict. That would be the lowest since an
April 7 sale of the current benchmark two-year bond at a yield
of 4.54 percent.  Policy makers left their key interest rate unchanged at a
record low of 3.5 percent last week, where it has been for 15
months, as inflation decelerated to its slowest in three years.
 Inflation  is likely to stay near the central bank’s 2.5 percent
target over the next 12 months, PAP newswire quoted Governor
 Marek Belka  as saying Oct. 4.  Poland plans to cut fourth-quarter sales of domestic bonds
to the smallest amount this year after record demand from
international investors helped cover 88 percent of government’s
borrowing needs for 2010,  Piotr Marczak , head of the Finance
Ministry’s public debt department, said on Sept. 30.  “The central bank comments have toned down expectations
for a swift increase in interest rates,”  Miroslaw Budzicki , a
fixed-income analyst at PKO in Warsaw, said in a phone
interview. “The supply toward the end of this year will be
about a half of what we got last quarter and should also be
supportive.” He predicts demand at around 8 billion zloty worth
of bonds at the auction.  The note maturing in January 2013 will become the new
benchmark two-year bond, replacing the current one that comes
due in July 2012.  ‘Dovish Rhetoric’  Poland’s gross domestic product is likely to expand by 3.4
percent in 2010, tying with Germany as the fastest-growing of
major European economies including Spain, France, Italy, the
U.K. and the Netherlands, according to European Commission
estimates.  Traders have pared bets that borrowing costs will rise this
year, according to money-market contracts. The three-month
forward-rate agreement traded at 4.15 percent, or 42 basis
points higher than the current three-month  Warsaw Interbank
Offered Rate  of 3.73 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The spread, or differential, has narrowed from 50
basis points on Sept. 27.  The Polish central bank’s “dovish rhetoric” may boost
foreign demand for bonds and strengthen the zloty, BNP Paribas
SA wrote in a note to clients last week.  Foreign investors increased holdings of zloty-denominated
bonds by a record 11.5 billion zloty in August and owned 124.6
billion zloty of the zloty-denominated government securities,
according to Marczak.  Supply  The country may offer from 8.9 billion zloty to 15.9
billion zloty of bonds maturing in 2013, 2016, 2020 this quarter
as well as road bonds, the Finance Ministry said on Sept. 30.
The amount will be lower than the 26.4 billion zloty of bonds
the country sold between July and September, the least so far
this year.  The reduction in the fourth quarter supply “is positive
for this bond auction,” said  Esther Law , an emerging-market
strategist at Societe Generale in London. “This, combined with
a rather positive global backdrop and lower budgetary needs next
year, should bode well for the auction.”  The European Union’s eastern members are scaling down bond
sales in the final three months of the year as they seek to
reduce budget deficits. Hungary last month lowered its 2010 plan
for net debt sales and opted to borrow more for longer
maturities. The Czech Republic has reduced debt issuance after
raising 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) from the sale of
Eurobonds last month that attracted bids at lower yields than
higher rated Italy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  