-- Poland Set to Pick Two Bidders for Final Enea Asset Sale Talks, Grad Says
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-10-05T14:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/polish-treasury-wants-to-pick-two-bidders-for-final-enea-talks-grad-says.html
Poland’s Treasury Ministry plans to
choose two companies for final talks to sell 51 percent of  Enea
SA , the country’s third-largest utility, as the government
continues asset sales in an effort to fund the budget deficit.  Picking two of the original six bidders for talks would be
the optimal number, Treasury Minister  Aleksander Grad  told TVN
CNBC television in an interview today. The deadline for bids is
12:00 p.m. and the ministry plans to complete the transaction
this year, he said.  The government is selling its holding in Poznan-based  Enea 
as part of a plan to raise 25 billion zloty ($8.6 billion) from
asset sales in 2010 to help finance the growing budget deficit.  Grad’s ministry has already signed deals for more than 20
billion zloty by selling stakes in other power groups, including
 Tauron Polska Energia SA , Poland’s second-biggest utility, and
Energa SA, the fourth-largest, and finding buyers for shares in
copper producer  KGHM Polska Miedz SA  and insurer PZU SA.  Out of six companies that placed bids for Enea, the
Treasury shortlisted five in August, declining to name them.  Electricite de France SA  filed a final bid by today’s
deadline, a person familiar with the process said, declining to
be named because the ministry hasn’t published a list of bidders
yet. Kulczyk Holding SA, owned by Polish billionaire  Jan Kulczyk , also placed a final bid, a second person said, citing
the same reason for requesting anonymity.  Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding AS of the Czech Republic
filed a request with Poland’s antitrust regulator for permission
to buy the utility, the watchdog said on its website yesterday.  EDF, Iberdrola  Slovenske Elektrarne AS, the Slovak unit of  Enel SpA ,
Italy’s biggest utility, confirmed in August it was among the
six initial bidders. France’s GDF Suez SA and Iberdrola SA of
Spain have declined to comment on a report by Puls Biznesu
newspaper that they were the remaining two companies.  The ministry aims to receive a 10 percent to 20 percent
premium over the market price, Deputy Treasury Minister  Jan Bury 
said last month.  Enea  rose 0.1 percent to 22.23 zloty in Warsaw trading
today, valuing the government’s stake at 5 billion zloty. The
benchmark WIG20 Index rose 1.3 percent.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  