-- Potash Corp. Says Study Understates Revenue Loss
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-10-05T11:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/potash-corp-says-conference-board-understates-revenue-loss.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. 
said a study commissioned by the Canadian province where it’s
based into  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion hostile bid
understated a potential loss of tax revenue.  The Conference Board of Canada, an independent researcher
of economic and public policy issues, said yesterday in a  report 
that the offer would have “few” negative effects on the
province of Saskatchewan apart from C$2 billion ($1.96 billion)
of lost revenue over 10 years.  That sum is too low because the study assumes BHP wouldn’t
mine potash at full output, “in direct contradiction” of
previous BHP statements, Potash Corp. said today in a filing.
Potash Corp. also said the loss is unique to BHP’s bid because
the Melbourne-based company owns the undeveloped Jansen potash
project in the province.  Saskatchewan will use the study in its submission to a
review of BHP’s offer under the Investment Canada Act, under
which the federal government can block transactions if it finds
they don’t provide a “net benefit” to the country. Canada
yesterday extended by 30 days the deadline to review the offer.  Potash Corp., the world’s largest producer of its namesake
crop nutrient, in August rejected BHP’s $130-a-share bid as too
low and has sought other offers. The Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-
based company said in today’s filing it would encourage the
government of Saskatchewan to remain open to reviewing
alternative bids “on a fact-based approach.”  Jansen Mine  Potash Corp.  closed  at $144.05 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday.  Saskatchewan would lose out on C$200 million of tax
receipts annually over a decade if BHP bought Potash Corp.
because the deal would enable the Australian company to write
off costs of Jansen and help it minimize corporate tax payments,
the board said in the report.  “On first reading it does not seem that negative for BHP
Billiton, and in our view, the governments of Canada and
Saskatchewan are likely to support BHP Billiton’s proposed
acquisition,” UBS AG analysts  Olivia Ker  and  Glyn Lawcock  said
today in a note, referring to the conference board report.  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, said yesterday it
will study the Conference Board report. The offer “will bring
significant benefits to Saskatchewan and to Canada,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  