-- Prada Said to Study Hong Kong IPO in First Half of Next Year
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-10-06T13:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/prada-studying-initial-offering-in-hong-kong-next-year-as-earnings-surge.html
Prada SpA, the Italian owner of the
eponymous fashion label, is studying an initial public offering
in Hong Kong for the first half of 2011, according to three
people familiar with the situation.  Prada, which has scrapped an IPO four times in the past 10
years, might raise more money having a primary listing in Hong
Kong than in Milan as individual investors are more active in
Asia, said the people, who declined to be identified because the
talks are private. Prada may hire banks as soon as next month,
one of the people said.  The Milan-based company’s sales may reach 2 billion euros
($2.75 billion) in 2010, while earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization may be between 450 million euros
and 500 million euros, the people said. Prada will probably make
a final decision on whether to proceed with an IPO before the
end of this year, they said.  “It’s starting to look like the right moment to do it,”
said  Armando Branchini , vice-president of Milan-based consulting
firm InterCorporate. “The conditions are there for an IPO now,
both externally and at Prada.”  Prada, which also owns the Miu Miu, Car Shoe and Church’s
brands, has cut debt and opened new stores in Asia as the
luxury-goods industry rebounds from its worst year on record.
French perfume-maker L’Occitane International SA sold  stock  in
Hong Kong in May to take advantage of demand for IPOs in Asia.  Rising Earnings  Hong Kong is among the markets Prada is looking at for a
possible listing, a company spokesman said. No decision has been
taken and Prada continues to monitor market conditions, he
added, declining to comment further.  Prada may fetch a valuation in excess of  Louis Vuitton Moet
Hennessy SA’s  trading multiples, said two of the people. The
world’s largest maker of luxury goods has an enterprise value of
11.65 times 2010 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization. Prada is monitoring orders for its spring-
summer 2011 collection before making a decision on whether to
move forward with the transaction, one of the people said.  Prada’s Ebitda more than doubled to 225.2 million euros in
the six months ended July 31, the company said Sept. 17. Revenue
climbed 29 percent to 936.5 million euros, led by a 47 percent
gain in Asia. Prada’s debt was 485 million euros at the end of
2009, the company said in March. Prada said in September that it
had improved its net financial position. Parent company Prada
Holding BV also has debt, which hasn’t been disclosed.  Past Attempts  Prada, controlled by Chief Executive Officer  Patrizio Bertelli , his wife  Miuccia Prada  and her family, abandoned plans
to list in 2008 because of adverse market conditions. The
company had hired Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, UniCredit SpA and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  to manage the offering at the time. Intesa and
UniCredit are guaranteed a role in any offering as part of a
loan agreement with Prada, while Goldman’s mandate has expired,
the people said.  Prada, founded by head designer Miuccia Prada’s grandfather
 Mario Prada  in 1913, still operates its first outlet in Milan’s
19th-century Galleria shopping arcade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 