-- Pregnant Women May Have 1 or 2 Drinks Weekly Without Harm, Study Finds
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-10-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/pregnant-women-may-have-1-or-2-drinks-weekly-without-harm-study-finds.html
Pregnant women who have one or two
drinks a week don’t harm their children, a study found.  Five-year-old children born to light drinkers showed no
increase in socioemotional difficulties or cognitive deficits
compared with those born to mothers who abstained during
pregnancy, according to the study published today in the  Journal
of Epidemiological and Community Health . The authors don’t
champion drinking during pregnancy.  “We are objective scientists, we don’t want to take an
advocacy stance on this,” the lead author,  Yvonne Kelly , an
epidemiologist at  University College London , said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Surprisingly, children of mothers who were light drinkers
were 30 percent less likely to have behavioral problems, and
these children achieved higher cognitive scores than those whose
mothers didn’t drink during pregnancy, the researchers found.  This finding may be attributable to the socioeconomic
status of light drinkers, the study said. Mothers who had one or
two drinks a week had more advantages than those who abstained
during pregnancy and mothers who never drank. It could also be a
reflection of the fact that mothers who drank lightly were more
relaxed, Kelly said.  “There are many plausible explanations,” Kelly said.
“What we can say clearly is there is a link between heavy
drinking and the consequent problems. We don’t question that at
all.”  The researchers used data from the  Millennium Cohort Study ,
analyzing about 11,000 children born from 2000 to 2002. Mothers
were interviewed multiple times on their drinking and
socioeconomic habits as well as child-rearing behavior and their
children’s behavioral and intellectual development.  The authors had reported similar findings on three-year-
olds, but had followed-up to make sure they weren’t overlooking
any long-term effects.  The  American Pregnancy Association  states that there is no
safe amount to drink during pregnancy, and the more an expectant
mom drinks, the more she raises her baby’s chances of having
problems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 