-- Transocean Refused to Give Documents to Spill Panel
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2010-10-05T20:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/transocean-refused-to-provide-some-documents-for-spill-probe.html
Transocean Ltd. , owner of the rig
that exploded in the Gulf of Mexico in April, refused an
investigative panel’s request for safety audits of all its Gulf
drilling rigs.  The company refused Aug. 4 and Sept. 2 requests for the
documents because it said they were overly broad, unduly
burdensome and irrelevant, Captain Hung Nguyen, co-chair of the
U.S. Coast Guard and Interior Department joint investigation
team, said at a  hearing  today in Metairie, Louisiana.  “Transocean has not been responsive to the requests of
this joint board,” Nguyen said. “I have significant concerns
with the safety-culture aspect” related to the April 20
explosion of the rig.  The panel is holding its fifth week of hearings into the
accident aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, which
Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean leased to BP Plc. The
explosion killed 11 workers, caused the rig to sink and led to
the leak of an estimated 4.9 million barrels of oil, the biggest
offshore spill in U.S. history.  “Transocean has produced more witnesses than any other
party involved in this investigation and significant volumes of
documentary evidence, including audit records of the Deepwater
Horizon,” the company said in an e-mailed statement. “Any
assertion to the contrary is simply not correct.”  Nguyen said the documents sought by the panel amount to 33
reports that are three to five pages each in length.  ‘Thwarted’ Access  “If they’re burdensome, that means something is going on
with the safety-management system,” Nguyen said.  The company “thwarted” access to some witnesses,
according to panel member Captain Mark Higgins. The company has
until the end of the day tomorrow to provide evidence its rigs
comply with  international safety  standards, the panel said.  Transocean is fully cooperating, and will provide the
documents “if it can be physically done,” Edward Kohnke, an
attorney representing the company, told the panel.  The company’s shares rose 68 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
$63.72 at 4 p.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange. Transocean has dropped 31 percent since the rig
exploded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Metairie at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Metairie at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 