-- RBA's Stevens Says Higher Interest Rates Likely Required `at Some Point'
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r
-- 2010-10-05T03:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/rba-s-stevens-explains-australia-unchanged-interest-rate-decision-text-.html
Following is the  text  of a statement
by Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens explaining
the board’s interest-rate decision today:  At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash
rate unchanged at 4.5 per cent.  The global economy grew faster than trend over the year to
mid 2010, but will probably ease back to about trend pace over
the coming year. Recent information is consistent with a more
sustainable, but still strong, pace of growth in China and most
of the Asian region.  In Europe and the United States, growth prospects appear to
be modest in the near term, a legacy of the financial crisis and
its impact on private and public finances. Financial markets are
still characterised by a degree of uncertainty, and are
responding both to differences in growth outlooks between
regions and evident strains on public finances and banking
systems in several smaller countries in Europe. Most commodity
prices have changed little over recent months, and those most
important to Australia remain very high.  Information on the Australian economy shows growth around
trend over the past year. Public spending was prominent in
driving aggregate demand for several quarters but this impact is
now lessening, while the prospects for private demand, and in
particular business investment, have been improving. This is to
be expected given the large rise in Australia’s terms of trade,
which is now boosting national income very substantially.  Asset values are not moving notably in either direction,
and overall credit growth is quite subdued at this stage,
notwithstanding evidence of some greater willingness to lend.
Inflation has moderated from the excessive pace of 2008. The
effects of the rise in tobacco taxes aside, CPI inflation has
been running at around 2.75 per cent over the past year. That
looks likely to continue in the near term.  The current stance of monetary policy is delivering
interest rates to borrowers close to their average of the past
decade. The Board regards this as appropriate for the time being.
If economic conditions evolve as the Board currently expects, it
is likely that higher interest rates will be required, at some
point, to ensure that inflation remains consistent with the
medium-term target.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Victoria Batchelor  in Sydney at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  