-- Real Madrid, Barcelona Offer to Split TV Cash With Other Spanish Teams
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-10-05T17:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/real-madrid-barcelona-may-cede-television-rights-as-smaller-clubs-revolt.html
Real Madrid and Barcelona offered to
split television income with other Spanish soccer teams for the
first time since 1996 to head off a revolt.  The country’s biggest two clubs presented a proposal to
other  first division  teams today about how to divide broadcast
money from 2014, league general secretary Carlos del Campo told
Efe news wire. The comments were confirmed by a league
spokesman.  Real and Barcelona get about half of the league’s 520
million-euro ($719 million) annual domestic broadcast income by
negotiating contracts individually, helping make them the
world’s biggest soccer clubs by sales. In April, 27 of the top
42 clubs asked the government to address the “extraordinary
imbalance.”  While there wasn’t consensus on Real and Barcelona’s
proposal, another meeting was scheduled for Oct. 22 to continue
negotiations, Del Campo said.  “It’s very complicated,” Javier Tebas, a former league
vice president who is negotiating on behalf of more than a dozen
smaller clubs, said yesterday. “It’s like cutting up a cured
ham among 42 people.”  Clubs are working on a plan to divide up the income
depending on variables like television audience and past
success, Tebas said. Officials at Real and Barcelona said no one
was immediately available for comment.  The two biggest clubs are “good at defending their
interests” and are unlikely to lose out financially, Eugenio
Martinez, a former HSBC Holdings Plc banker who sought to become
Real president last year, said in an interview. A bigger concern
for the club is a “bubble” in the Spanish television rights
market, Martinez said.  Mediaproduccion SL, which agreed to a 1.1 billion-euro deal
with Real in 2006, sought bankruptcy protection in June. Real’s
income from the accord, which expires in 2014, is guaranteed
through June 2011, according to the club’s latest accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net . 