-- Treasury 30-Year Bond Declines on Bet That Fed Will Buy Shorter Maturities
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-05T20:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/treasury-30-year-bond-declines-on-bet-that-fed-will-buy-shorter-maturities.html
Treasury 30-year bonds fell on
speculation the Federal Reserve will buy shorter-maturity debt
if policy makers expand purchases of government securities to
sustain the economic recovery.  The two-year Treasury yield matched a record low before an
employment report Oct. 8 forecast to show no change in overall
payrolls. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the first
round of asset purchases, called quantitative easing, improved
the economy and more buys would help the economy. The Fed bought
$5.19 billion of U.S. notes due from September 2016 to May 2017
today in a program of reinvesting mortgage-holding proceeds.  “The Fed is likely to buy Treasuries concentrated in the
intermediate part of the curve,” said  Richard Bryant , senior
vice president in fixed income at MF Global Inc. in New York, a
broker of exchange-traded futures. “In buying back Treasuries,
they are unlikely to extend much of their purchases past the 10-
year. The market is out in front of the Fed to a decent degree.”  The 30-year  bond yield  rose 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.74 percent at 4:28 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. It earlier touched 3.76
percent, the highest level since Sept. 30. The price of the
3.875 percent security due in August 2040 fell 17/32, or $5.31
per $1,000 face amount, to 102 14/32.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note slipped 1 basis
point to 2.47 percent. It touched 2.43 percent, the lowest level
since Aug. 25. Two-year  notes  yielded 0.3987 percent, matching
the record low set yesterday.  ‘Almost a Certainty’  “Short-term, the market may be a little bit overbought,”
said  Thomas L. di Galoma , head of U.S. rates trading at
Guggenheim Capital Markets LLC, a New-York based brokerage for
institutional investors. “QE is almost a certainty at the
November meeting” of Fed policy makers.  The yield on the 2-year note may fall to 0.33 percent,
 Louise Yamada , a technical analyst at New York-based Louise
Yamada Technical Research Advisors LLC, said in an interview
with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Television. Yamada predicted the
2008 bear market in stocks.  Stocks rallied, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index
climbing 2.1 percent.  The Labor Department will likely say on Oct. 8 the
unemployment rate rose to 9.7 percent in September from 9.6
percent in August, while overall nonfarm hiring stagnated,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Service Industries  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, rose to 53.2 last month from 51.5 in August, compared
with 54.3 in July. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a gain to 52.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year securities
over 2-year debt widened to 2.08 percentage points, from 2.07
yesterday. The spread touched the narrowest in four weeks, 2.03
percentage points, on Sept. 28.  The U.S. central bank’s purchase of Treasuries today was
part of a program to reinvest principal payments on its mortgage
holdings into long-term government debt to prevent money from
being drained out of the financial system. The Fed is  set  to
acquire Treasuries due from March 2013 to August 2014 tomorrow.  Japan’s decision to buy $60 billion of assets and cut its
benchmark interest rate to stimulate growth bolstered optimism
the Fed will boost Treasury purchases to strengthen the U.S.
recovery. The Bank of Japan lowered the benchmark interest rate
to a range of zero percent to 0.1 percent from the previous 0.1
percent target.  ‘Additional Accommodation’  The Fed snapped up $300 billion of Treasuries last year,
and said in August it would reinvest proceeds from maturing
mortgage holdings into government debt. The central bank, which
meets next Nov. 2-3, said in a policy statement on Sept. 21 that
it’s prepared “to provide additional accommodation if needed to
support economic recovery.”  Further asset purchases would help the economy, Bernanke
said yesterday.  “The additional purchases -- although we don’t have
precise numbers for how big the effects are -- I do think they
have the ability to ease financial conditions,” Bernanke said
at a forum with college students in Providence, Rhode Island. He
said the first wave, which ended in March, was an “effective
program.”  The U.S. budget deficit for the 2010 fiscal year ended
Sept. 30 is likely to be close to 10 percent of gross domestic
product, or almost as large as the previous year’s shortfall, a
Treasury official said today.  Mary Miller , assistant secretary for financial markets, said
in remarks prepared for a conference in New York that the Fed’s
decision to purchase Treasury securities in the secondary market
won’t affect debt management.  No Impact  “The Federal Reserve remains a very large investor in our
market,” Miller said. “I would like to underscore that their
decision to purchase Treasuries in the secondary market does
not, and will not, impact our debt-management strategy.”  The gap between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices, rose 7 basis points to 1.88
percentage points. The five-year average is 2.10 percentage
points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  