-- Treasury Sees 2010 Deficit at Nearly 10% of U.S. GDP
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-10-05T15:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/treasury-sees-2010-deficit-at-nearly-10-of-u-s-gdp.html
The U.S.  budget deficit  for the 2010
fiscal year ended Sept. 30 is likely to be close to 10 percent
of gross domestic product, or almost as large as the previous
year’s shortfall, a Treasury official said.  “We expect this year’s deficit to be a similar or slightly
lower percentage of GDP,” said  Mary Miller , assistant secretary
for financial markets, in remarks prepared for a conference in
New York. She said the economy is unlikely to sink back into a
recession, although the recovery will take time.  The worst recession since the Great Depression cut tax
revenue while boosting spending, contributing to a deficit of
$1.4 trillion in fiscal 2009. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  yesterday said lawmakers should adopt rules that limit
federal spending or debt to put the nation on a more sustainable
fiscal path.  Miller, in her speech to a Futures Industry Association
conference, also said the Fed’s decision to purchase Treasury
securities in the secondary market won’t affect debt management.  “The Federal Reserve remains a very large investor in our
market,” Miller said. “I would like to underscore that their
decision to purchase Treasuries in the secondary market does
not, and will not, impact our debt-management strategy.”  The Fed in August began buying Treasuries with the proceeds
from its mortgage-backed securities portfolio. Bernanke has
signaled during the past two weeks that policy makers may
restart large-scale asset purchases as soon as their next
meeting Nov. 2-3 in a bid to boost economic growth.  Debt Sales  Miller said the Treasury manages its debt sales to borrow
at the lowest cost over time. “Fed monetary-policy decisions
are independent of that calculus,” she said.  The Treasury’s calendar of securities sales, for now,
strikes a balance between government financing needs and
marketplace demand for U.S. debt, she said. The Treasury is
trying to maintain this balance while gradually reducing auction
sizes “at a steady pace.” Borrowing amounts are expected to
stabilize in the “near to medium term,” she said.  Domestic ownership of Treasury securities has grown over
the past two years, Miller said. She said foreign ownership has
grown in absolute terms although not in terms of market share.  Miller said she is confident that the futures market for
Treasury securities will remain “highly liquid.” She said the
Dodd-Frank financial regulation bill enacted this year will make
futures markets safer and more transparent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  