-- Treasury 10-Year Yields Near Five-Week Low on Outlook for Purchases by Fed
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-05T18:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/treasuries-rise-for-second-day-as-bernanke-says-purchases-support-economy.html
Treasury 10-year note yields traded
near a five-week low after a report showing service companies in
the U.S. expanded faster than forecast failed to deter
speculation the Federal Reserve will increase asset purchases.  Thirty-year bond yields rose as traders speculated the Fed
may focus on buying Treasury notes. Two-year note yields were
near a record low after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday the first round of purchases, called quantitative
easing, improved the economy and more buys would “ease
financial conditions.” Stocks rose.  “The data didn’t deviate much from expectations to have a
big effect on a QE decision,” said  Dan Mulholland , a Treasury
trader in New York at Royal Bank of Canada, one of 18 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “There are still expectations
for QE. It will probably be more of a piecemeal approach rather
than the shock-and-awe that was expected.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note fell 1 basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.47 percent at 2:15 p.m. in New
York, BGCantor Market Data showed. It touched 2.43 percent, the
lowest level since Aug. 25. The 2.625 percent security maturing
in August 2020 increased 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 11/32.  Two-year  note  yields touched 0.3987 percent, matching the
record low set yesterday. The 30-year  bond yield  rose 2 basis
points to 3.72 percent after earlier touching 3.76 percent, the
highest level since Sept. 30.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index climbed 2 percent.  ‘Almost a Certainty’  “Short-term, the market may be a little bit overbought,”
said  Thomas L. di Galoma , head of U.S. rates trading at
Guggenheim Capital Markets LLC, a New-York based brokerage for
institutional investors. “QE is almost a certainty at the
November meeting” of Fed policy makers.  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, rose to 53.2 last month from 51.5 in August, compared
with 54.3 in July. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a gain to 52. The gauge, where readings greater
than 50 signal growth, averaged 55.3 during the six-year
expansion that ended in December 2007.  The U.S. central bank bought $5.19 billion of Treasuries
maturing from September 2016 to May 2017, the New York Fed said
in a  statement  today. The purchase was part of a program to
reinvest principal payments on its mortgage holdings into long-
term government debt to prevent money from being drained out of
the financial system. The Fed is  scheduled  to acquire Treasuries
due from March 2013 to August 2014 tomorrow.  Traders speculated the central bank’s focus on buying
shorter-term securities in the program may continue in a broader
purchase effort.  ‘So Much Indecision’  “Much of the purchases we have seen by the Fed have been in
the 7- to 10-year sector,” said  Paul Horrmann , a broker in New
York at Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker.
“There’s so much indecision and questions about the Fed and what
QE2 is going to be.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year securities
over 2-year debt narrowed 0.29 percentage point to 2.07
percentage points. The spread touched the narrowest in four
weeks, 2.03 percentage points, on Sept. 28.  Japan’s decision to buy $60 billion of assets and cut its
benchmark interest rate to stimulate growth bolstered optimism
the Fed will boost Treasury purchases to strengthen the U.S.
recovery. The Bank of Japan lowered the benchmark interest rate
to a range of zero percent to 0.1 percent from the previous 0.1
percent target.  ‘Additional Accommodation’  The Fed snapped up $300 billion of Treasuries last year,
and said in August it would reinvest proceeds from maturing
mortgage holdings into government debt. The central bank, which
meets next Nov. 2-3, said in a policy statement on Sept. 21 that
it’s prepared “to provide additional accommodation if needed to
support economic recovery.”  Further asset purchases would help the economy, Bernanke
said yesterday.  “The additional purchases -- although we don’t have
precise numbers for how big the effects are -- I do think they
have the ability to ease financial conditions,” Bernanke said
at a forum with college students in Providence, Rhode Island. He
said the first wave, which ended in March, was an “effective
program.”  Banks and securities firms that are forecasting lower U.S.
yields are in the minority, Bloomberg surveys show. The 30-year
rate will climb to 3.91 percent by year-end, based on a survey
that gives the heaviest weightings to the most recent forecasts.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices, increased 0.05 percentage
point from yesterday to 1.85 percentage points. The five-year
average is 2.10 percentage points.  Treasuries have returned investors 8.9 percent this year,
according to a Bank of American Merrill Lynch index, compared
with a loss of 2.1 percent in the same period last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  