-- Regulators to Discuss Cash Bank Bonuses Under EU Rules
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-10-06T11:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/regulators-will-review-european-rules-on-cash-portion-of-banker-bonuses.html
European Union Financial regulators
will seek to clear up confusion about how much cash bankers can
receive as part of their bonuses at meetings in London today.  The  Committee of European Banking Supervisors  will host a
meeting with regulators from the 27 EU nations. In addition to
bonus rules, the financial watchdogs will discuss capital ratios
for lenders, according to a person with knowledge of the agenda,
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private.  The U.K.  Financial Services Authority  is looking to CEBS to
determine how to implement rules on the amount of cash in banker
bonuses. FSA proposals in July are consistent with EU rules that
limit the cash portion of bonuses to 30 percent, “but we have
made clear that it’s provisional because other interpretations
are also possible,”  Heidi Ashley , an FSA spokeswoman said in a
telephone interview.  “It’s good of the FSA to push for 50 percent, but maybe a
30 percent cap is what’s necessary to put this matter to bed,”
 David Buik , a market analyst at inter-dealer broker BGC Partners
in London, said in a telephone interview.  The EU is implementing rules on bonuses as part of a range
of measures to rein in the risk taking that is blamed for
causing the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  The FSA proposed compensation rules that require at least
40 percent of bonuses be deferred for at least three years and
at least 50 percent of the bonuses be paid in shares.  ‘That’s Meritocracy’  “I don’t see why small private companies or ones that are
not credit-exposed and take no risk on their books -- like us --
should fall under the same rules,” said  Alasdair Haynes , chief
executive officer of Chi-X Europe Ltd., Europe’s biggest
alternative trading system. “If there’s no credit risk you
should be able to reward people as you wish. That’s
meritocracy.”  Richard Balarkas , chief executive officer of the Instinet
Europe Ltd. brokerage, said the strict bonus rules might drive
lenders into non-EU countries.  “If I’m a highly rated analyst, I don’t understand why I’d
sit in an investment bank, in a highly regulated environment
where I am now personally liable for all kinds of things, in a
tax regime where I give the government half what I earn,”
Balarkas said in an interview. “Some of the smarter people are
looking for easier and better ways to make a living.”  Basel Committee  In addition to the bonus rules, the regulators will also
discuss the effect of rules on how much capital banks will have
to set aside, adopted by global regulators at the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision on the economy.  The  Basel Committee  proposals will force lenders to have
common equity equal to at least 7 percent of assets, weighted
according to their risk, including a 2.5 percent buffer to
withstand future stress. Banks that fail to meet the buffer
would be unable to pay dividends, though they wouldn’t be forced
to raise cash. Lenders will have less than five years to comply
with the minimum ratios and until Jan. 1, 2019, to meet the
buffer requirements.  The Basel Committee estimated that the tougher capital
requirements would trim 0.38 percent from gross domestic product
in the U.S., euro area and Japan after 4 1/2 years. That’s about
an eighth of the 3.1 percent reduction foreseen by the Institute
of International Finance, an industry group, over five years.  ‘This Is Nonsense’  Some bankers say that “every 1 percent on capital
requirements means a $700 billion reduction in lending
capacity,”  Richard Portes , president of the London-based Centre
for Economic Policy Research, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This is nonsense: the banks could, for example, meet higher
capital requirements by raising more capital, cutting
compensation ratios, doing less risky lending, reallocating
resources from trading to lending.”  The regulators at the CEBS meeting will also discuss EU
plans to establish a new pan-European banking regulator next
year, the person with knowledge of the agenda said.  CEBS, whose role is to coordinate national banking
authorities and make policy recommendations to the EU on
regulation, will take on more powers from January after the
European Parliament and member states approved the creation of
three supervisors for Europe’s banking, securities and insurance
industries last month.  The London-based  European Banking Authority  will have the
power to impose its decisions directly on financial firms if the
U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority , or any national regulator,
fails to implement its recommendations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 