-- Regulatory Overhaul to Raise Hedging Costs, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-10-05T14:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/regulatory-overhaul-to-raise-hedging-costs-morgan-stanley-says.html
The  Dodd-Frank  overhaul of the
financial system will make it more expensive for commercial end-
users of derivatives, including airlines and oil producers, to
hedge their energy risks, said  Nancy King , chief risk officer
for global commodities at  Morgan Stanley .  Companies that use derivatives to lock in prices for
commodities such as oil and natural gas may face higher margin
costs, said King and representatives of other energy trading
companies during a panel today at the  Futures  Industry
Association’s  Energy Forum  in New York on how the legislation
will affect energy markets.  “Most likely there’s going to be increased cost,” said
King. The bill may reduce hedging and increase volatility, she
said.  Markets for oil, gasoline and natural gas will face new
rules under the new rules for the $615 trillion over-the-counter
derivatives market, including increased regulatory oversight,
higher capital requirements and limits on the number of
contracts a single trader can hold. The U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission will publish most of the new rules by July.  The bill gives the  commission  a year to implement
provisions meant to increase transparency and reduce risk. The
law requires that most commodity, interest-rate, credit-default
and other swaps be traded on an exchange or swap execution
facility, then processed, or cleared, through third-party
clearinghouses. All swaps will have to be reported to data
repositories.  New Rules  The commission will determine which businesses will be
deemed “end users” that employ derivatives to hedge commercial
risk and are therefore exempt from clearing. Commission Chairman
 Gary Gensler  has said that any exceptions should be narrowly
construed.  The commission is also considering position limits on the
number of contracts a single trader can hold in commodities
including oil, natural gas, and gasoline.  The legislation, named for Democratic Senator  Christopher Dodd  of Connecticut and Representative  Barney Frank  of
Massachusetts, followed the 2008 financial crisis that tipped
the U.S. economy into the deepest recession since the 1930s.
Losses tied to derivatives based on subprime mortgages were at
the center of the collapse of  American International Group Inc., 
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,   Washington Mutual Inc.  and other
banks.  The losses triggered a $700 billion taxpayer-funded
bailout. AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, received a
bailout in September 2008 that swelled to $182.3 billion after
losses on derivatives tied to home loans.  The panelists included Charles Cerria, associate general
counsel at Hess Energy Trading Corp.;  Antoine Halff , head of
energy research at Newedge USA LLC in New York; and  Fred Schuster , partner and head of commodities trading at Chicago-
based DRW Trading Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 