-- Rio Tinto Says Regulators May Block BHP Iron Ore Deal
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-10-06T17:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/rio-tinto-says-bhp-iron-ore-venture-faces-potential-regulatory-obstacles.html
Rio Tinto Group , seeking to merge its
Australian iron ore operations with  BHP Billiton Ltd.  to save
$10 billion in costs, said regulators signaled they may object
to the venture.  Rio’s board “acknowledged recent communications from
regulators that indicate potential obstacles to achieving
clearance,” the London-based company said in a statement after
an Oct. 4 board meeting. Rio hasn’t made any final decisions
regarding the tie-up with BHP in Western Australia, it said.  The Japan Fair Trade Commission  and the  Korea Fair Trade
Commission  have filed interim reports on the venture and Rio
said it’s continuing talks with Australian and European
regulators. The European Commission’s preliminary investigation
into the plan is “coming to an end,”  Amelia Torres , a
spokeswoman for the regulator, said today by telephone.  Rio and BHP, the world’s second- and third-largest
producers of iron ore, agreed in June 2009 to combine mines,
railroads and ports in Australia’s Pilbara region in a 50-50
venture. Melbourne-based BHP pledged to make a $5.8 billion
equalization payment to Rio as part of the accord. The venture,
initially due to be completed by mid-2010, has been delayed as
regulators study the plan.  “Rio may have decided they don’t need this as much as BHP
does and I don’t think they do,” said  Peter Chilton , who holds
shares in BHP and Rio at Constellation Capital Management Ltd.
in Sydney. “The compelling argument may be less compelling than
it was.”  Shares Climb  Rio , the world’s third-biggest mining company, rose 3.5
percent to 3,926 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close of trade in
London, the highest price in almost six months. The stock
advanced 2.6 percent in  Sydney  earlier.  BHP  gained 3 percent to
2,137.5 pence in London after closing up 2.6 percent in  Sydney .  The two companies had agreed to a $276 million break fee
when they signed the deal on June 5 last year. Rio was preparing
to tell BHP yesterday it wants to exit the deal, the  Age
newspaper  reported today, citing people close to the board. It
no longer wants to proceed because shareholders oppose the
venture, Rio’s financial situation has improved and the
partnership favors BHP, according to the report.  “The Rio Tinto board has not made any final decisions
about possible outcomes or next steps relating” to the venture,
Rio said in the statement.  The venture is “still going through the regulatory
approvals,”  Amanda Buckley , a spokeswoman for BHP, said today
by phone.  Quicker, Easier  “We would have liked this process to have been quicker and
easier,” BHP Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said Aug.
25. “It doesn’t seem to be quick, or easy.”  The deal was proposed when Rio, battling  high levels of
debt , scrapped an investment from Aluminum Corp. of China in
favor of raising $21 billion from a share sale and the joint
venture. The agreements allowed Rio to slash debt without
selling bonds and stakes in its largest mines to Chinalco,
defusing a backlash from shareholders and politicians.  Steelmakers in Japan, the world’s second-largest producer,
have opposed the plan to combine iron ore operations, saying it
would limit competition among suppliers of the steel ingredient.
The accord should be blocked by regulators, the World Steel
Association said when the deal was announced. BHP and Rio said
they would continue selling their iron ore independently.  ‘Enormous Threat’  Integration of the companies’ iron ore production
“represents an enormous threat to the global steel industry,”
 Eiji Hayashida , chairman of the Japan Iron & Steel Federation
and the president of JFE Holdings Inc.’s steel unit, said Oct. 4
in Tokyo. “The Japanese steel industry is strongly opposed to
this integration.”  Australia’s competition regulator said on Sept. 30 it has
all the information it needs to rule on the joint venture and
the timing of the verdict was up to the companies.  “We’ve been ready for some time, but they don’t want us to
make a decision,”  Graeme Samuel , chairman of the Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission, said in an interview.
“We’ve got all the information we need.”  Lin Enright , a spokeswoman for the commission, wasn’t
available when contacted at her office today.  South Korea’s antitrust regulator said April 14 it would
complete a review of the proposed venture in the second half of
this year.  BHP abandoned a $66 billion hostile bid for Rio in 2008,
citing Rio’s high level of debt and economic uncertainty. That
deal won approval from the U.S. Department of Justice and
Australia’s competition regulator. The European Commission had
asked for divestments in iron ore and coal.  -- With assistance from  Masumi Suga  in Tokyo and Aoife White in
Brussels. Editors:  Amanda Jordan ,  Claudia Carpenter   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 