-- Roberto Mancini, Carlos Tevez in Bust-Up at Manchester City Match: Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-10-05T10:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/roberto-mancini-carlos-tevez-in-bust-up-at-manchester-city-match-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  City Bust-Up  Manchester City coach  Roberto Mancini  clashed with captain
 Carlos Tevez  at half-time in the 2-1 win over Newcastle two days
ago, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  At one point during the dressing-room altercation Mancini
threatened to substitute the Argentine, the Telegraph said.  Tevez was understood to have upset Mancini by addressing
his fellow players when the Italian arrived to give his team-
talk, the newspaper added. Tevez had scored from the penalty
spot in the first half, with Newcastle getting a goal back
before the break.  The City duo cleared the air before the game resumed.
Assistant coach  Brian Kidd  said the incident demonstrated the
players’ determination to win the match, the paper added.  ‘New Schmeichel’?  Manchester United is monitoring Denmark goalkeeper Anders
Lindegaard as it steps up the hunt for a successor to  Edwin van der Sar , the  Telegraph  reported.  As well as Lindegaard, Lyon’s Hugo Lloris and Schalke’s
Manuel Neuer are among potential candidates who’ve been watched
by United, the newspaper added.  Lindegaard, who plays for Aalesunds FK, has been dubbed the
“new  Peter Schmeichel ” in Denmark, the paper said, in a
reference to United’s former keeper.  Stoke Wants N’Zogbia  Stoke coach  Tony Pulis  may compete with Bayern Munich in an
8 million-pound ($12.7 million) battle to sign Wigan winger
 Charles N’Zogbia , the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Pulis may try to recruit him in January, using Tuncay in
part-exchange, the paper added.  Transfer Cash for Sven  Sven-Goran Eriksson  will get 10 million pounds as a
transfer fund to boost Leicester’s chances of a return to the
Premier League, the  Mirror  reported.  The club’s Thai owners dismissed coach  Paulo Sousa  last
week and Eriksson was confirmed in the post last weekend. The
Swede said he’ll get full financial backing to buy players.  “I was asked by the owners, ‘How much money do you want?’
The target here is very clear -- Premier League,” Eriksson
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 