-- Romani Sworn in as Industry Minister Five Months After Scajola's Departure
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2010-10-05T08:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/romani-sworn-in-as-industry-minister-five-months-after-scajola-s-departure.html
Italian Industry Minister  Paolo Romani , a former television executive, took office yesterday
five months after his predecessor resigned amid a real-estate
investigation.  Romani, 63, previously communications undersecretary, was
sworn in last night in Rome by President  Giorgio Napolitano ,
according to a  statement  on the head of state’s website. The
ministry had been led by Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  since
May 4, when  Claudio Scajola  stepped down amid allegations of
possible impropriety in the purchase of an apartment near Rome’s
Coliseum.  “Romani has a lot of experience in communications,”
Senator  Anna Finocchiaro  of the opposition Democratic Party said
in a statement. “But he doesn’t know much about labor
relations.”  Milan-born Romani will oversee negotiations between Fiat
SpA, Italy’s biggest manufacturer, and labor unions that have
protested the Turin-based company’s plans to lift productivity.
He will also play a role in government efforts to restore
nuclear power after Italy’s atomic plants were shut down and
dismantled following a 1987 referendum.  Fiat negotiators are meeting with unions in Rome today.
 Guglielmo Epifani , leader of the Italy’s biggest union CGIL,
called on Romani to begin work immediately to “resolve the 140
disputes” the union has brought before the ministry, Ansa news
agency reported.  Before going into politics in 1994 with Berlusconi’s Forza
Italia party, Romani spent much of his career as an executive in
private television in Milan. He also had a stint as a reporter
covering the fall of Romania’s  Nicolae Ceausescu  and the war in
the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s, according to his  page  on the
government’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  