-- Russian Cybercrime Thrives as Soviet-Era Schools Spawn Hackers
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a
-- 2010-10-06T07:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/russian-cybercrime-thrives-as-soviet-era-schools-spawn-world-s-top-hackers.html
The U.S. Department of Justice said
it may have been the most sophisticated computer fraud ever. For
Viktor Pleshchuk, it was the chance to buy a brand new BMW and
an apartment in his hometown of St. Petersburg.  The 29-year-old last month pleaded guilty to participating
in a worldwide hacking scheme that led to the illegal withdrawal
of more than $9 million from cash machines worldwide operated by
 RBS WorldPay Inc ., the U.S. payment-processing division of
Britain’s Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The conviction shed light on a growing trend from Russia.
Just as President  Dmitry Medvedev  seeks to persuade investors
his country is a safe place, more technology graduates are
turning to cybercrime. The FBI last week  charged 37 suspects 
from Russia, Ukraine and other eastern European countries of
using a computer virus to hack into U.S. bank accounts.  “The number of hackers reflects how many good engineers we
potentially have in this country,” Vladimir Dolgov, the
president of  Google Inc . in Russia, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Moscow.  Russians committed more than 17,500 computer-related crimes
last year, or 25 percent more than in 2008, according to the
Interior Ministry’s latest statistics.  ‘Childish Prank’  While cybercrime is proliferating, Russian laws against it
were written in 1998, when hacking was often perceived as a
“childish prank,” Boris Miroshnikov, the head of the
ministry’s anti-cybercrime department, said in a report posted
on the agency’s  website .  A ministry spokeswoman said the department has advised
Russian lawmakers to impose stiffer penalties on hackers. She
declined to be identified, citing department policy.  “We are working on that, but so far we haven’t moved
beyond discussions,” she said.  Businesses around the world lose more than $1 trillion in
intellectual property due to data theft and cybercrime annually,
according to a  report  in January 2009 by McAfee Inc., the
technology security company based in Santa Clara, California.  Seeking to thwart the attacks, U.S. legislators in March
proposed to use trade restrictions to penalize countries that
provide safe haven to hackers.  Growing Threat  “The cybercrime threat coming from Russia is significant
and growing,” U.S. Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a New York
Democrat who supports the measure, said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “It threatens America and undermines the
Russians. It is in the best interest of both countries to find a
way to cooperate and better control cybercrime.”  The FBI  said  on Sept. 30 the suspects from eastern Europe
stand accused on trying to hack into U.S. bank accounts to steal
more than $3 million. In August, French authorities arrested a
resident of Moscow who used his Internet network called
CarderPlanet to sell stolen credit cards, the U.S. Secret
Service said in a  statement  on its website.  “This network has been repeatedly linked to nearly every
major intrusion of financial information reported to the
international law enforcement community,” the agency said in
the statement.  The government in Moscow needs to create jobs to help
thwart cyber criminals. Their numbers have swelled since the
collapse of the Soviet Union, when scores of Russian computer
engineers turned to online crime, Dmitry Zakharov, a spokesman
at the  Russian Association of Electronic Communications , said.  “Hackers are not gangsters with knives, but young and
talented kids from suburbs who don’t have any other options to
make a living,” said Zakharov, a trade group that promotes
Internet security in Russia. “If the government will create
jobs for them, many will follow the lead.”  Shy Hacker  Medvedev, 45, who has a  video blog  and a  Twitter account ,
has said he wants to stop the Russian brain drain and turn the
economy away from energy exports toward one based on technology.  The president asked billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg  in March
to oversee plans to create a hub for the development and
marketing of new technologies in the Moscow suburb of Skolkovo,
where tax breaks and other incentives would be offered to lure
investment. Companies including Siemens AG, Cisco Systems Inc.
and Nokia Oyj have agreed to participate in the project.  Pleshchuk was a “positive and shy” student who “worked
hard,” Sergey Sharangovich, head of the department that
educated him, said in a statement on the  website  of Tomsk State
University of Control Systems and Radio Electronics.  After graduating, he moved to St. Petersburg and opened an
e-commerce company before he got in touch with a group of
international hackers who asked him to help crack WorldPay’s
database, Russian investigators said.  ‘Sophisticated’  The U.S. Justice Department last year indicted Pleshchuk
and seven other hackers in Russia and elsewhere in eastern
Europe, saying the group stole the data encryption that was used
by RBS WorldPay to protect debit cards,  it  said on its website.  The cards were used to withdraw money from 2,100 cash
machines in 280 cities in less than 12 hours, in what U.S.
prosecutors called “perhaps the most sophisticated and
organized computer-fraud attack ever conducted.”  “We take fraud extremely seriously and have stringent
security processes in place to protect our customers, which we
constantly review,” Michael Strachan, a spokesman at RBS in
London, said in an e-mailed statement.  Pleshchuk got a reduced sentence, including four years
probation, after he agreed to provide information about his
accomplices, his lawyer, Yuriy Novolodsky, said in an interview
in St. Petersburg last month. He was ordered to give up his
assets, including the BMW and the apartment, to help pay the $9
million back to WorldPay.  “On the one hand, it’s flattering,” Sharangovich at Tomsk
University said. “On the other hand, Pleshchuk didn’t apply his
knowledge the right way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  