-- Russian Central Bank Won't Buy Public Debt to Boost Market, Ulyukayev Says
-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-10-05T13:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/russian-central-bank-won-t-buy-public-debt-to-boost-market-ulyukayev-says.html
Russia’s central bank doesn’t plan to
buy state debt to support the market even as the government
increases borrowing to close a budget deficit.  Investors’ appetite for risk remains low, “so they’re
happy to buy public debt without our participation,” Bank
Rossii First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said today in
interview with Bloomberg Television in Moscow.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said today that while Russia
will probably increase its “presence on the capital markets,”
state debt won’t exceed 20 percent of gross domestic product.
“In the global context that’s a minimal number,” he said at an
investment forum organized by VTB Group, the country’s second-
largest lender.  Russia borrowed a record 293 billion rubles ($9.7 billion)
in the third quarter and will seek to raise 300 billion rubles
in the last three months of this year to help finance its budget
deficit after the worst economic slump on record last year.  The government is stepping up domestic borrowing to help
cover a 2010 fiscal shortfall forecast at 5.3 percent of GDP.
The world’s biggest energy supplier posted a deficit of 5.9
percent of GDP last year, its first since 1999.  Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said at the forum today that
Russia’s state debt may reach about 11 percent of GDP by year-
end from 10.5 percent at present. According to a Finance
Ministry forecast, debt will increase to 13.6 percent of GDP
next year, 15.7 percent in 2012 and 17.4 percent in 2013, RIA
Novosti reported.  Putin said he expects the government to achieve its goal of
eliminating the deficit by 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan Chilcote  in Moscow at  rchilcote@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  