-- Ryder Cup Needed More Than ‘Mistake’: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-10-05T15:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/ryder-cup-deserved-better-than-the-mistake-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Funny things happen in sports when
the heart palpitates and the palms sweat, which is precisely why
 Hunter Mahan  should never have conceded.  I’m a firm believer in the necessity of sportsmanship and
gentlemanly acts but this was no gimme, no tap in, not even with
two chances at it. Not with the Ryder Cup and the sporting hopes
of a continent sitting squarely on one man’s shoulders.  Jack Nicklaus  at the 1969 Ryder cup conceded a two-foot
putt to  Tony Jacklin  that is widely considered one of the
greatest sporting gestures in golf history. That was two feet.
This was four, maybe even a smidgen more which, under pressure-
cooker conditions, can look like a country mile.  Mahan needed to make his opponent,  Graeme McDowell  of
Northern Ireland swing the putter at least one more time. We all
know that golf balls can do odd things when they swirl around
the lip and refuse to fall.  If anyone should have understood the mind-body connection
it’s Mahan who, just a few moments earlier, had flubbed a chip
from just off the green. He chunked it, as the announcer on TV
said.  Give Mahan that shot 100 times and, well, let’s just say we
probably wouldn’t see anything as ugly as the near-double hit
that he’ll ponder for a while. Mistakes like that have staying
power. It was that bad, the probable byproduct of jitters born
of expectations and a gallery that included hopeful and helpless
teammates  Tiger Woods  and  Phil Mickelson . All eyes were on the
28-year-old Mahan, who was his team’s only hope at retaining the
prize.  Final Pair  There were only two players left on the course at  Celtic
Manor  in Wales, where the rain finally stayed away long enough
for uninterrupted drama to build in a competition that was
supposed to end on Sunday. And build it did, all the way to the
last pairing.  Mahan needed to take the final two holes against McDowell,
whose comments afterward offer the best argument for why it was
the wrong time for concessions. Mahan let McDowell, this year’s
U.S. Open champion at Pebble Beach, pick up his ball. No putt.
Plenty of party.  “This is crazy. I’ve never felt as nervous on a golf
course in my life,” McDowell said when the 38th Ryder Cup had
ended with the European side having won, 14 ½ to 13 ½. “The
U.S. Open felt like a back nine with my dad at Portrush (his
home course in Northern Ireland) compared with that. Wow. It’s
just so much pressure.”  Wow, indeed. That’s some quote: Never as nervous. Now
imagine McDowell, mouth dry, teammates poised to celebrate,
standing over that four footer. Odds are better than good that
McDowell either sinks the putt or puts it close enough to merit
his opponent’s concession. After all, his nerves looked steady
on the 16th hole, where McDowell rolled in a downhill, 8-foot
putt that put him in control.  One More Time  Still, it would’ve been nice to see him do it again.  If Mahan at any time in the back nine holes thought that he
was nervous, prior to conceding he should’ve thought about what
was on the line for McDowell, who was trying to win for not only
his teammates and his captain, but all of Europe, where the
Ryder Cup is akin to the Super Bowl.  Like McDowell, full of confidence was 21-year-old American
 Rickie Fowler , a captain’s pick who birdied the final four holes
to give his mates a chance. He rolled in a 15-footer on 17 and
then sank a had-to-have-it 18-footer on the final hole that
ended with a hug from team captain  Corey Pavin , who can’t be
criticized for anything after his side rallied from three points
down entering singles play.  Nothing to Lose  Fowler said he had nothing to lose.  And neither did Mahan. It’s hard to fathom the golf
cognoscenti coming down hard had Mahan asked McDowell to put the
ball closer than four feet. But he didn’t ask.  Nicklaus and Jacklin became lifelong friends and teamed to
design a course in  Bradenton , Florida, called The Concession.
Who knows, maybe this Ryder Cup and the next one, scheduled for
2012 at Medinah Country Club outside of Chicago, will yield
something similar down the line for McDowell and Mahan. I offer
no suggestions for where the course should be built, only what
it should be called: The Mistake.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  