-- Safeway, Clorox Swaps Rise for Second Day Amid LBO Speculation
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-10-05T20:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/safeway-clorox-default-swaps-rise-for-second-day-amid-buyout-speculation.html
The cost to protect against losses on
the debt of Safeway Inc., Clorox Co. and ConAgra Foods Inc. rose
as traders speculated on which companies may become targets of
private-equity firms.  Swaps on Pleasanton, California-based supermarket chain
Safeway jumped as much as 12 basis points to 124 basis points
before falling back to 115 basis points, according to broker
Phoenix Partners Group. Swaps on Clorox, the Oakland,
California-based maker of household cleaning products, climbed 5
basis points to 79 basis points, while contracts on ConAgra,
maker of Banquet and Healthy Choice dinners, rose 6 to 71,
according to data provider CMA.  The swaps rose for a second day after Bloomberg News
reported that Sara Lee Corp. held talks in recent months with
Apollo Global Management LLC that failed to result in a deal.
The specter of buyouts returning has prompted analysts and
traders to dust off computer spreadsheets that seek to identify
potential targets, allowing credit-swap investors to hedge
against losses or find alternatives to buying shares to profit
from mergers and acquisitions.  “You look across a number of investment-grade companies
and notice that cash levels are basically as high as they’ve
ever been and balance sheet leverage is getting to as low as it
was pre-crisis,” said  Rizwan Hussain , a credit strategist at
Morgan Stanley in  New York . Combined with increasing
availability of high-yield, high-risk bonds and stock-market
valuations lower than the last leveraged buyout wave, he said,
“all the pieces fit together.”  Potential Targets  The New York Post reported that Sara Lee rejected a $12
billion leveraged buyout offer from KKR & Co. The reports added
to the list of companies that investors perceive as potential
targets for leveraged buyouts, in which sponsors typically
finance most of the acquisition cost with debt.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch strategists added ConAgra and
Safeway to a group of companies they recommended investors buy
protection on to hedge against the risk of debt-financed
takeovers, according to a report to clients yesterday. The
strategists also included Clorox among the group.  Safeway contracts which rise as investor perceptions of
credit risk increase, traded at the highest since December 2008,
prices from London-based data provider CMA show.  Swaps on Sara Lee fell 12 basis points today to 126. The
contracts yesterday had their biggest one-day jump and climbed
to the highest on record, CMA prices show.  Benchmark Gauge Falls  A gauge of corporate credit risk in the U.S. fell below 100
basis points for the first time in two months as a decision by
the  Bank of Japan  to lower its interest rate to “virtually
zero” and buy bonds stoked speculation the  Federal Reserve  and
other central banks will take further actions to prop up the
global economy.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, fell 6.3 basis points to a mid-price of 98.7
basis points as of 4:06 p.m. in New York, according to Markit
Group Ltd. The Markit CDX is trading at the lowest since Aug. 2.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt. The index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates.  Swaps protecting against losses on Univision Communications
Inc. debt plunged to the lowest since December 2007 after Grupo
Televisa SA said it will invest $1.2 billion in the Spanish-
language media company. The five-year contracts dropped 224
basis points to 627 basis points, according to CMA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  