-- Santana Lauds ‘Angel’ Michael Jackson, Leads Love Chant: Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2010-10-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/santana-lauds-angel-michael-jackson-leads-love-chant-at-concert-review.html
Carlos Santana  dedicates his concerts
to the “archangel”  Michael Jackson . He addresses his hit
“Maria Maria” to all the women in the audience. He instructs
them: “Look in the mirror and say: ‘I am light and I am
love.’”  The New Age chanting contrasts with Santana’s failed
attempt to match the macho carnality of  Led Zeppelin . He tries
an ill-advised cover of “Whole Lotta Love,” a track off his
“ Guitar Heaven ” album released last month. Santana is
promoting the CD with a tour that started in Ireland and the
U.K. -- the London  O2  arena show is typical -- before moving to
mainland Europe and the U.S.  Take away the stage chat at the opening shows, and Santana,
63, is still at the top of his game. It is still the same game,
the one that he practically invented: classic 1960s rock and
smooth, radio friendly songs fired up with Latin rhythms.  In 2010, Santana sounds as fresh as he did more than 40
years ago to the pioneering rock audience of 400,000 who
gathered at  Max Yasgur’s  farm in Woodstock, New York. The
Mexican-born, San Francisco-based guitarist has had a Top 10
album in every decade since the 1960s, sold more than 80 million
records, won 10  Grammy  awards and is a member of the  Rock and
Roll Hall of Fame .  Santana’s guitar playing is endlessly inquisitive. He
enjoys inserting as many musical gobbets as possible: up pops
Stravinsky’s “Firebird” and  Suzanne Vega’s  “Tom’s Diner.”
“Blue Moon” appears in the cover of Cream’s “Sunshine of Your
Love.”  Smooth Songs  Forays into Santana’s middle-of-the-road pop side are less
successful. Songs from his 1999, 27-million selling comeback
album “Supernatural” sound as vacuously smooth as a high-end
moisturizer commercial.  Still, audiences of dedicated fans get a 2½-hour fiery set
packed with hits. It’s neither an exercise in nostalgia nor a
case of an elder statesman of rock resting on his laurels.  Drummer  Dennis Chambers  is a samba powerhouse while
percussionists Karl Perazzo and Raul Rekow send rhythmic
fireworks bouncing off the walls. The band, after 15 minutes of
increasing exuberance, lurches into the stripped down cha-cha-
cha of  Tito Puente ’s “Oye Como Va.” The proto-disco afro
groove “Jingo,” from Santana’s self-titled debut LP, is
similarly electric.  Santana is no longer cool. He comes over as an old hippie
in fedora and white-linen top decorated with swirling African
and Aztec designs, spouting quaint ideals, the tunes slipping a
little too smoothly into the mainstream. Yet, when he picks up
his guitar, his music can still shine as brightly as it did at
that mythologized festival field back in 1969.  Rating: ***.  Santana plays Antwerp, Belgium, tonight. His tour includes
dates in Germany, Switzerland, France, the Czech Republic,
Italy, Denmark, Sweden and Norway before moving to the U.S. in
November. Information:  http://www.santana.com/tour/default.aspx   “Guitar Heaven: Santana Performs the Greatest Guitar
Classics of All Time” (Arista Records) is priced about $9.99,
and 7.99 pounds in the U.K. Download prices vary across
services.  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 