-- Saudi Regulator May Hike Electricity Rates to Encourage Thriftier Usage
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-10-05T06:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/saudi-regulator-may-hike-electricity-rates-to-encourage-thriftier-usage.html
Saudi Arabia may raise electricity
tariffs in the Arab world’s biggest economy to improve energy
efficiency, the industry regulator said.  “We are going to request to consider other elements of the
tariffs,” Abdullah al-Shehri, governor of the  Saudi Electricity 
and Co-generation Regulatory Authority, said in an interview in
Jeddah yesterday. He added that the agency will seek higher fees
for first-time connectivity and capacity usage.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil supplier, introduced
revised electricity rates for the government, industrial and
commercial sectors on July 1. The tariffs were forecast to
generate more than 3 billion riyals ($800 million) in annual
revenue, the official Saudi Press Agency said in June.  Saudi Arabia wants private companies to contribute to the
kingdom’s 300 billion-riyal power-capacity expansion plan to
help cut subsidy costs. The government spends about 50 billion
riyals a year to subsidize fuel needed for power production, al-
Shehri said on Sept. 3.  State-controlled  Saudi Electricity Co.  powers about half of
its plants with heavy fuel oil, crude and diesel, Saleh Alawaji,
deputy minister for electricity, said in an interview yesterday.
The other 50 percent is from natural gas.  “We are very concerned about energy efficiency,” said
Alawaji, who is also chairman of the board of Saudi Electricity.
The government wants to eliminate using diesel to run its plants
because of the cost, he added.  Power demand is set to grow as much as 8 percent a year for
the next five years, Ali al-Barrak, chief executive officer of
Saudi Electricity, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 