-- Orascom-Algeria Spat May Need Russians, Sawiris Says
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2010-10-05T16:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/sawiris-says-russia-better-placed-to-solve-algeria-dispute.html
Russia’s new ties to  Orascom Telecom
Holding SAE  and historic links with Algeria may help resolve a
dispute between the mobile-phone company and the North African
country’s government, Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  said.  Plans by  VimpelCom Ltd. , owner of Russia’s second-largest
mobile-phone operator, to combine assets with Sawiris’s stake in
Orascom may enable Russia to mediate in a disagreement over
taxes and ownership of Orascom’s Algerian operations, Sawiris
said today at a press conference in Cairo.  “They are more likely to solve the crisis under this
partnership,” Sawiris said. “Russia is the biggest supplier of
arms to Algeria now and the first importer of gas. Russia has a
very good relationship with Algeria.”  VimpelCom, part-owned by Norway’s Telenor ASA and with
corporate headquarters in Amsterdam, will merge its mobile-phone
assets with those controlled by Sawiris in a transaction valued
at about $6.5 billion, the partners said yesterday. Sawiris said
today that there’s a 90 percent probability the combination will
go through and that he doubts Orascom’s tax dispute in Algeria
will affect the deal.  Orascom Telecom  rose  5.6 percent to 5.48 Egyptian pounds as
of the 2:30 p.m. close of Cairo trading in the biggest one-day
jump since May 30. That valued the company at 28.7 billion
pounds ($5.03 billion).  VimpelCom “is absolutely committed to continuing
discussions with the Algerian government on a set of issues,
 Elena Prokhorova , a spokeswoman for the Russian company in
Moscow, said in a phone interview.  Talks Since August  Talks on the combination, which also includes Sawiris’s
Italian mobile-phone holdings, have been under way since at
least August. Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  may raise
Orascom Telecom’s tax difficulties during his visit to Algeria
this week, Kommersant newspaper reported on Oct. 1.  Sawiris said today that Orascom hasn’t had any contact with
Algerian authorities since May on government plans to buy the
company’s local unit, Djezzy.  Algerian Communications Minister  Moussa Benhamadi  said on
Sept. 2 that the government expects to buy full control of
Djezzy by the end of the year. Plans for Djezzy’s takeover won’t
be affected by Orascom Telecom’s agreement with VimpelCom,
Algerian Investment Promotion Minister Mohamed Benmeradi said
today, according to state-run news agency APS.  Sawiris and his family own 51.7 percent of Cairo-based
 Orascom Telecom  and all of Italian mobile operator Wind
Telecomunicazioni SpA through their Weather Investments SpA
holding company. VimpelCom will take over those assets and
provide Weather with 20 percent of new shares in the Russian
company, valued at $4.7 billion at current prices, plus $1.8
billion in cash.  February Target  Orascom Telecom Chief Executive Officer  Khaled Bichara  said
he expects the merger to be completed in February.  “They’re better off being with VimpelCom than not, given
the potential political and economic pressure the Russian
government can exert on Algeria,”  Sally Gerges , an analyst at
Cairo-based Beltone Asset Management, said by telephone.  Orascom Telecom will set up a new company to manage its
assets in Egypt and North Korea, which weren’t included in the
transaction between Weather and VimpelCom, and the entity will
be listed, Sawiris said.  “What I would say to Orascom Telecom investors is that the
future is much brighter than the situation we were in,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mahmoud Kassem  in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ola Galal  in Cairo at   ogalal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 