-- MSCI China Index May Drop 15% in Fourth Quarter on Stimulus Exit, RBS Says
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-10-05T02:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/msci-china-index-may-drop-15-in-fourth-quarter-on-stimulus-exit-rbs-says.html
The  MSCI China Index  may fall 10
percent to 15 percent this quarter as the government focuses on
structural reform instead of boosting the economy as growth
moderates, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao , speaking in an interview with CNN that
was taped on Sept. 23 and broadcast Oct. 3, said his nation
“can rely on stimulating domestic demand to stabilize and
further grow the Chinese economy.” The premier also said on
Sept. 13 at the World Economic Forum’s Summer Davos meeting that
the economy is in a “good shape.”  “Beijing is increasingly aware of the side effects of its
unprecedented stimulus measures, among which excess liquidity
has to be one,” analysts led by  Wendy Liu  wrote in a report
yesterday. “His comments indicate that China may be prepared to
exit from stimulus measures ahead of its global peers.”  China’s 4 trillion yuan ($598 billion) economic stimulus
program helped its economy rebound from the global financial
crisis.  Gross domestic product  increased 10.3 percent in the
second quarter, slowing from an expansion of 11.9 percent in the
previous three months as policy makers capped bank lending and
curbed real estate speculation.  The MSCI China, tracking mainly Hong Kong-traded Chinese
stocks, slipped 0.3 percent as of 10:13 a.m. in Hong Kong. The
 measure  rallied 8.3 percent in September, taking its gains for
2010 to 3 percent. Mainland stocks have performed more poorly,
with the  Shanghai Composite Index  slumping 19 percent this year.  Further Curbs  The government on Sept. 29 added to curbs on real estate by
tightening down-payment rules for first homes and suspending
third-home loans. Policy makers also pledged to quicken the
introduction of a trial of a property tax, prompting RBS
analysts led by  David Ng  to say that the moves are the start of
a “third round of cooling measures.”  Outside of China, “persistent weakness” in the U.S. labor
market and a “re-aggravation” of the European Union’s
sovereign-debt crisis may also renew concerns that the global
economy will return to recession, RBS said.  Investors can consider “bottom fishing” around November
or December after the drop, which shouldn’t exceed 15 percent
from the September peak, Liu said. Still, the market may be
“range bound” in the first half of 2011, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  