-- VeriSign Put Options Should Be Sold, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-05T22:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/sell-bearish-verisign-options-on-buyback-support-jpmorgan-says.html
Investors should sell bearish
 VeriSign Inc.  options because the share price of the biggest
operator of computers that direct Internet traffic is supported
by its stock buyback program, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  Equity derivatives strategists  Amyn Bharwani ,  Marko Kolanovic  and  Adam Rudd  recommended selling VeriSign’s $30 put
options expiring in December. The stock rose 2.5 percent to
$32.57 at 4 p.m. in New York. Selling a put is a bet that the
stock will remain above the strike price, allowing the seller to
keep the premium paid.  JPMorgan analyst  Sterling Auty  rates VeriSign
“overweight” and says the risk of a decline in the shares is
limited by the company’s share repurchase program, the New York-
based strategists wrote in a report yesterday.  VeriSign  has an
authorization to buy back $1.5 billion of its own stock after
repurchasing 8.1 million shares for $227 million in the second
quarter.  “Share repurchase remains front and center,” Auty wrote
in a note to investors on Sept. 28. “We like the strategy as it
makes us feel like the downside is somewhat protected by a large
buyer (Verisign) while leaving the potential for a lot of upside
to our target as things continue to get better from a growth and
margin standpoint.”  The company has about $3 billion in  cash , according to
JPMorgan, after selling a dozen of its “non-core” businesses
since November 2007, including its website authentication-
services unit to  Symantec Corp.  for $1.28 billion in cash in
May.  VeriSign, based in Mountain View, California, has advanced
34 percent this year, compared with a 0.3 percent gain in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  