-- Sell Bullish Gazprom Options on Capital Expenditures, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-10-05T05:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/sell-bullish-gazprom-options-buy-lukoil-s-credit-suisse-strategists-say.html
OAO Gazprom  shareholders should sell
call options on Russia’s gas export monopoly because capital
expenditures may reduce cash flow, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  Derivatives strategists Daniel Roy  and  Habib Saikaly 
recommended selling over-the-counter December $23 calls linked
to Gazprom’s U.K.-traded shares, which rose 1.2 percent to
$21.28 yesterday on the London International Exchange. Investors
could deploy the money raised through the sale by purchasing
off-exchange December $62.25 calls on  Lukoil OAO , which gained
0.1 percent to $57.35 in London yesterday.  Gazprom is poised to lag behind Lukoil because it faces
“costly” capital expenditures totaling $144 billion over the
next three calendar years that may cut cash flow, the
strategists said. Gazprom’s London shares have fallen 17 percent
this year in London, compared with a 0.1 percent gain for Lukoil
and 6.9 percent advance for Russia’s benchmark MICEX Index.  “Gazprom may be unable to generate any free cash flow in
the short-term,” the London-based strategists wrote in a
report. “Gazprom looks fairly valued at best with the share
price already reflecting the impact of the dislocation of gas-
to-oil prices.”  Gazprom’s shares haven’t closed above the $23 strike price
that Credit Suisse recommended since April.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Investors use options
to guard against fluctuations in the price of securities they
own, speculate on share-price moves or bet that  volatility , or
stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 