-- Senai-Desaru, IDB, Indonesia Plan Issuance: Islamic Bond Alert
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 2010-10-05T03:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/senai-desaru-idb-indonesia-plan-issuance-islamic-bond-alert.html
The following borrowers are expected
to sell Islamic bonds, which use asset returns to pay investors
to comply with the religion’s ban on interest.  Global sales of sukuk fell 17 percent to $11.6 billion so
far this year from the same period in 2009, the lowest in four
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance totaled
$20.2 billion last year, up from $14.1 billion in 2008.  SENAI-DESARU EXPRESSWAY BHD.: The operator of Malaysia’s
third-longest highway in the state of Johor plans to issue as
much as 1.15 billion ringgit ($370 million) of Islamic medium-
term notes to bondholders in November as part of its debt
restructuring program, Chief Executive Officer Mustaza Salim
said in an interview today. The new issue includes debt with
maturities ranging from one year to 20.5 years, according to a
company statement yesterday.  CAGAMAS BHD.: Malaysia’s national mortgage company may sell
more Islamic bonds this year or next following a sale in August
under its 5 billion ringgit Sukuk al-Amanah Li al-Istithmar
program, Chief Executive Officer Steven Choy said today. The
company sold 1 billion ringgit on Aug. 18. The sale was managed
by Al Rajhi Banking & Investment Corp. (Malaysia) Bhd., RHB
Investment Bank Bhd. and the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK: The Jeddah-based multilateral
lender plans to sell $1 billion of five-, seven- and 10-year
sukuk in the fourth quarter under its $3.5 billion Medium-Term
Note program to fund development projects in its member
countries, Vice President  Abdul Aziz Al Hinai  said. The bonds
will be listed in London and Kuala Lumpur. The bank hired CIMB
Holdings Bhd., the world’s top sukuk arranger, Citigroup Inc.,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc to manage the sale,
two people with knowledge of the issuance said yesterday.  NAKHEEL PJSC: The property unit of Dubai World, may issue
as much as $3.2 billion of five-year sukuk to pay contractors as
part of its debt restructuring plan, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
in a report Aug. 26. The bond to be issued against trade claims
is estimated to have a fair value in the low 60 cents to the U.S.
dollar, it said. The developer aims to settle 1.5 billion
dirhams ($408 million) it owes to contractors in September,
Chairman  Ali Lootah  was cited as saying by the Al Bayan
newspaper on Aug. 30. Nakheel is in preliminary talks with
Nasdaq Dubai to list Islamic bonds, Chairman Ali Rashed Lootah
told reporters in Dubai this week without providing details.  MALAYSIA DEBT VENTURES BHD.: The venture capital firm owned
by the Ministry of Finance plans to sell as much as 500 million
ringgit of sukuk in September or October next year to fund
investments in technology projects, said Chief Executive Officer
Md. Zubir Ansori Yahaya. The company sold a similar amount last
month.  ALBARAKA BANKING GROUP: The largest publicly traded Islamic
bank in Bahrain expects to raise $200 million from the sale of
Shariah-compliant bonds before the end of the year, using
Standard Chartered Plc as one of the managers, Chief Executive
Officer  Adnan Ahmed Yousif  said last month. The bank’s unit in
Egypt may sell dollar-denominated bonds in the second half of
next year, he said last week.  ARAB PETROLEUM INVESTMENTS CORP.: The energy investment
unit of the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries,
plans to sell a Saudi riyal-denominated benchmark-sized bond as
the company expands in the kingdom, the company said last month.
It didn’t say whether the debt will be Islamic.  INDONESIA: Southeast Asia’s largest economy plans to sell 2
trillion rupiah ($224 million) of Islamic bonds to the Ministry
of Religious Affairs in October, said  Rahmat Waluyanto , a
director at the Ministry of Finance. It will separately offer 1
trillion rupiah of sukuk through an auction today. The
government may also sell Islamic debt in the overseas market in
the first half of 2011 and for individual investors in the first
quarter, he said.  KONSORTIUM LEBUHRAYA UTARA-TIMUR: The owner of the Duta-Ulu
Kelang Expressway in Malaysia plans to offer creditors as much
as 780 million ringgit of sukuk this month to replace existing
debt as part of the company’s restructuring program, the company
said in an e-mail.  TURKEY: Citigroup Inc. plans to arrange more sales of
Islamic bonds from Turkey after managing a $100 million issue
for Kuveyt Turk Katilim Bankasi AS, said Hulusi Horozoglu,
director of global Islamic banking at Citigroup. Kuveyt may sell
more than $100 million of five-year sukuk in 2012, the company’s
Chief Executive Officer  Ufuk Uyan  said on Aug. 25. The Turkish
government may consider selling yen-denominated bonds or Islamic
securities, Emre Balibek, the Treasury’s deputy general director
for public finance said in June. Turkey is rated Ba2 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BB by Standard & Poor’s.  PAKISTAN: The South Asian country plans to sell sukuk
maturing in a year or less in the domestic market, according to
an e-mailed statement from  Syed Wasimuddin , a spokesman for
State Bank of Pakistan, the nation’s central bank. It didn’t
give further details.  SUDAN: The African nation will delay the sale of $300
million of Islamic bonds until next year as it waits for global
markets to recover from the economic crisis, central bank
Governor  Sabir Mohamed Hassan  said. Sudan had previously planned
the bond sale before the end of this year.  KAZAKHSTAN: The former Soviet republic that last sold debt
overseas in 2000 is planning a debut Islamic bond sale this year
to broaden its investor base, said Aibek Bekzhanov, head of
Islamic instruments at the  Regional Financial Center of Almaty .  PHILIPPINES: State-owned Al-Amanah Islamic Bank is looking
to sell the nation’s first Islamic bonds, the lender’s President
Armando Samia said in July, without giving the size or timing.
The proposal is at a “very exploratory stage,” he said.  THAILAND: The Islamic Bank of Thailand, the nation’s only
bank to comply with Shariah law’s ban on interest, plans to sell
5 billion baht ($163 million) of Islamic bonds in the fourth
quarter to expand lending. The sukuk will be offered to local
investors and may have maturities of five or seven years,
President Dheerasak Suwannayos told reporters.  JORDAN: Jordan may sell $500 million of conventional or
Islamic bonds internationally to help the government with its
finances and take advantage of low borrowing costs, Finance
Minister  Mohammad Abu Hammour  said, without specifying the size
and timing of the sale. The country is rated Ba2 by Moody’s and
BB by S&P.  AHMED SALEM BUGSHAN GROUP : The Saudi Arabia-based company,
known as ASB, plans to raise as much as $100 million selling
five-year Islamic bonds to fund projects including a mega-steel
plant and a real-estate development, Mohamed H. Zakaria, senior
vice president of the group, said in an e-mailed statement. The
bond will offer a semi-annual return of 125 basis points more
than six-month Libor, the rate banks charge each other on loans.
ASB may ask Fitch Ratings or S&P to rate the debt, he said.  SAUDI ELECTRICITY CO.: The Arab world’s largest utility
company may issue global sukuk in 2011 after April’s sale of 7
billion riyal ($1.87 billion) of Islamic notes, according to
Executive Director of Treasury Fahad Alsudairy.  KENCANA PETROLEUM BHD.: The Malaysian oil and gas
contractor will sell 250 million ringgit of Islamic bonds this
year to help finance vessel purchases. State bond insurer
Danajamin Nasional Bhd. agreed to guarantee the notes, allowing
them to have the highest AAA rating for local bonds.  WAHA CAPITAL PJSC: The Abu Dhabi-based investment and
leasing company said its shareholders approved a plan to issue
mandatory convertible bonds or sukuk worth 1 billion dirhams to
strengthen its finances and support expansion plans.  VTB BANK OJSC: VTB Bank plans to sell Islamic bonds worth
about $200 million in the second half of the year, Reuters
reported in April, citing an unidentified person familiar with
the plan.  EMIRATES INTEGRATED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CO.: The Dubai-based
phone operator known as Du, may consider selling Islamic bonds
in coming years to fund expansion, Chief Executive Officer  Osman Sultan  said in April without disclosing the amount.  LAFARGE MALAYAN CEMENT BHD.: Malaysia’s largest cement
maker will sell as much as 350 million ringgit of Islamic bonds
under a seven-year program to fund expansion, the company said
March 26. The debt is rated AA2 by RAM Rating Services Bhd., its
third-highest ranking for long-term corporate debt instruments.  SAUDI ARABIAN OIL CO.: Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest
state-owned oil company, and Total SA expect to raise $8 billion
in debt financing for a joint refinery and petrochemical project
in the “coming months,” according to Saleem Shaheen, chief
executive officer of Saudi Aramco Total Refining and
Petrochemical Co. The debt package will include the sale of
Islamic bonds, he said.  LEBANON: Lebanon may sell Islamic bonds in 2011, according
to the central bank in February. The country has more than $2
billion of dollar-denominated debt maturing this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It is rated B2 by Moody’s, five
levels below investment grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 