-- Service Industries in U.S. Expanded at Faster Pace
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-05T20:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/service-companies-in-u-s-expand-at-faster-pace-than-projected-ism-says.html
Service companies in the U.S.
expanded at a faster pace than projected in September,
indicating the economic recovery is picking up heading into the
fourth quarter.  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of  non-
manufacturing  businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, rose to 53.2 from 51.5 in August. The gauge, in which
readings greater than 50 signal growth, averaged 55.3 during the
six-year expansion that ended in December 2007.  The improvement at services providers from management
companies to wholesalers and retailers, combined with fresh
efforts by the Bank of Japan to spur growth, sent stocks and
commodities higher. Even so, the pace of recovery is not fast
enough to bring down  unemployment , which is projected to average
more than 9 percent through 2011.  “This paints a little bit more encouraging picture,” said
 Conrad DeQuadros , a senior economist at RDQ Economics LLC in New
York. “The risks of sliding back into recession are very low.
It’s consistent with a moderate rate of economic growth.”  Stocks climbed after the report and on speculation central
banks will join the BOJ is taking additional steps to revive the
global economy. The Japanese central bank today cut its
benchmark interest rate and announced it will create a fund to
buy bonds and other assets. The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  rose
2.1 percent to 1,160.75 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.
Treasury securities were little changed.  The  median forecast  of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected the ISM index would rise to 52. Estimates ranged
from 50 to 53.3.  Manufacturing Cools  The services survey covers industries that range from
utilities and retailing to health care, housing, finance and
transportation. The group’s factory survey, released Oct. 1,
showed  manufacturing  expanded last month at the slowest pace
since November as orders and production cooled.  The ISM non-manufacturing  employment gauge  rose to 50.2
from 48.2 in August. The measure of  new orders  increased to 54.9
from 52.4. The group’s measure of business activity declined to
52.8 from 54.4.  “This is slow and steady growth,” said  Anthony Nieves ,
chairman of the ISM’s non-manufacturing survey. “There’s still
this cautiousness about whether or not things are turning the
corner but people want to remain optimistic.”  Holiday Hiring  Some retailers plan to boost hiring in anticipation that
sales during the holidays will be better than last year.  Toys
‘R’ Us Inc. , the world’s biggest toy retailer, said Sept. 28 it
will add about 45,000 temporary employees to cope with demand at
the end of this year, up from 35,000 in 2009. Chief Executive
Officer  Gerald Storch  last month said he’s also adding more
inventories than last year.  Best Buy Co. , the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, said Sept. 28 it plans to offer a promotion on every
Friday in October to spur sales of phones. The company also
plans to keep holiday hiring even with last year, adding about
29,000 seasonal employees.  “We know it is a tough environment out there,” Best Buy
Co. Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn  told reporters Sept. 28.
“It will be hard fought.”  Charles “Wick” Moorman , chief executive officer of
Norfolk Southern Corp., the second-largest U.S. railroad by
market capitalization, is projecting the recovery from the worst
recession since the 1930s, while muted, will continue.  ‘Slow-Growth Economy’  “We saw a fairly sharp snap-back as 2009 went on and early
in 2010 that seems now to have slowed,” Moorman said in a Sept.
29 interview on Bloomberg Television. We’re just going to
continue to see a slow-growth economy for some time to come.”  Moorman said his company is adding workers mainly to
replace those leaving the railroad with “some slight hiring”
to meet growing demand. The Norfolk, Virginia-based company’s
payroll remains down about 2,000 from where it was when the
recession began, he said.  The Labor Department later this week may report
unemployment rose to 9.7 percent in September from 9.6 percent
the prior month, according to the median  estimate  of economists
surveyed. Companies added 75,000 workers to payrolls, according
to the survey median, not enough to keep up with a growing labor
force.  Economists surveyed last month projected the unemployment
rate will average 9.6 percent this year and 9.2 percent in 2011,
after averaging 9.3 percent in 2009. That would be the longest
span of joblessness above 9 percent since 1941.  The labor market is also a reason why Federal Reserve
policy makers may respond with more stimulus. The outlook for
job growth and inflation is “unacceptable” and more monetary
easing is probably needed to spur growth and avert deflation,
Fed Bank of New York President  William Dudley  said in a speech
Oct. 1.  The economy is a top issue for voters in the November
congressional elections and polls show the public is
increasingly skeptical of President Barack Obama’s performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  