-- Shareholders Hurt by Number of U.S. Options Exchanges, Analyst Allen Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-10-05T21:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/shareholders-hurt-by-number-of-u-s-options-exchanges-analyst-allen-says.html
Options exchanges have proliferated
to the point where potential shareholders may be driven away,
according to an analyst at Ticonderoga Securities LLC.  CBOE Holdings Inc. ’s C2 Options Exchange, the ninth U.S.
options venue, is scheduled to begin trading by the end of
October. There should be three or four markets instead, unless
trading volume increases, said Ticonderoga’s  Christopher Allen .
 Richard Repetto , a principal at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP,
gave the same range for the ideal number of exchanges.  CBOE shares have tumbled 28 percent since the owner of the
Chicago Board Options Exchange, the largest equities derivatives
platform by trading volume, sold stock in an initial public
offering in June. CBOE, Eurex’s International Securities
Exchange, NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. operate
options venues that compete by offering different rules for
matching orders and pricing.  “It becomes harder to understand how exchanges compete,”
Allen said today at a conference held by the Futures Industry
Association and Options Industry Council in New York. “People do
not want to invest in businesses that are confusing for them.”  Average daily trading volume totaled 14.4 million contracts
in September, down 4 percent from the same month in 2009,
according to data compiled by Chicago-based Options Clearing
Corp. Daily trading in the first nine months of this year
averaged 15.2 million contracts, a 5.2 percent increase from the
same period last year, according to OCC, which clears all
trading of exchange-listed options.  ‘Something Going On’  “Everyone expects an uptick in September as people come
back from vacations,” Repetto said at the same event today.
“We’re flat. There’s something going on.”  Repetto said that smaller stock-price swings as U.S. shares
rally is probably curtailing options volume. Equity derivatives
are used to hedge against losses or bet on market moves.  “There’s a basic relationship between volatility and
volume, and if you don’t have volatility you don’t have
volume,” Repetto said. “Just take a look at the fundamentals
of volatility dropping, and you’ll be able to predict that
volumes are going to decline as well.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 8.8 percent last
month for its best September gain since 1939. The CBOE
Volatility Index fell 9 percent. When the so-called VIX closed
at 21.21 on Sept. 13, it was the lowest level since May 3 for
the volatility measure.  The S&P 500’s four-week historic volatility, a gauge of
stock swings, has fallen by more than half since May, when a 20-
minute stock market crash briefly erased $862 billion in value.
Historic volatility dropped to 12.39 yesterday, the lowest since
April and down from 34.20 in the period after the rout.  Thomas Wittman, head of U.S. options at New York-based
Nasdaq, which has two equity derivatives venues, said it’s more
likely that the number of options exchanges will increase than
decrease.  Jeromee Johnson  of Bats Global Markets agreed.  “I think we see 12 options exchanges before we see 6,”
said Johnson, vice president for market development at Bats in
Kansas City, Missouri. The firm introduced an options market in
February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 