-- Shipping Corp. to Sell $291 Million of Shares as India Seeks to Tap Flows
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 2010-10-05T14:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/shipping-corp-to-sell-291-million-of-shares-as-india-seeks-to-tap-flows.html
Shipping Corp. of India , the nation’s
biggest marine transport company, will sell 13 billion rupees
($291 million) of shares as the government accelerates asset
sales to tap overseas buying of the nation’s stocks.  India, which  owns  80.1 percent of the company, will sell 10
percent of its stake, while the company will offer new shares of
the same amount, according to a government statement. Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s cabinet approved the sale today. The
government’s stake will fall to 63.75 percent after the offer.  Singh wants to tap a record  inflow  of international
investment seeking to participate in the second-fastest pace of
economic growth in Asia. The government plans to sell shares in
“more than one” state-run company each month through to March
31, Disinvestment Secretary  Sumit Bose  said this month. Overseas
inflows reached a record 930 billion rupees yesterday, according
to data from the market regulator.  Shipping Corp.’s  shares , which have risen 13.7 percent this
year, advanced 0.5 percent to 168 rupees in Mumbai today. Retail
investors and employees will get a 5 percent discount on the
offer price, the statement said.  The company, based in Mumbai, is seeking to raise funds as
it adds 14 ships in the financial year that started in April,
Chairman S. Hajara said on Aug. 11.  India’s gross domestic product expanded 8.8 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, the most among major economies in
Asia after China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
 Abhijit Roy Chowdhury  in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Abhay Singh at 
 abhaysingh@bloomberg.net  