-- Silver May Gain Into 2011 on Investor, Industry Use, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-10-05T05:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/silver-may-gain-into-2011-on-investor-industry-use-deutsche-bank-says.html
Silver, trading near a 30-year high,
may climb as much as 21 percent next year on demand for an
investment that protects wealth and also may benefit from
industrial usage, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Silver has outperformed gold, global equities, Treasuries
and most industrial metals this year and may peak toward the end
of 2011 at $26.50 an ounce, said  Daniel Brebner , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank in London. The metal will average $24.25 next
year, according to Brebner, who correctly forecast it would
reach $22 by this December.  Precious metals have gained this year as central banks and
governments held borrowing costs down and spent trillions of
dollars to stimulate economies. The Federal Reserve has left its
benchmark interest-rate target at a record low and pledged to
take more steps to aid growth if needed, helping to spur
investment in exchange-traded products backed by precious metals
and pushing gold prices to an all-time high.  “Investors will continue to look at stores of value in an
environment of uncertainty, in an environment where there’s
continued pressure on fiat currencies such as the dollar,”
Brebner said yesterday in an interview. Silver “benefits from
the store-of-value support that drives gold, but it also has an
industrial component, which we think is beneficial and will lead
to outperformance over the course of next year.”  Seventh Quarterly Gain  Silver for immediate delivery traded at $21.942 an ounce at
6:16 a.m. in London and is up 30 percent this year. Prices may
average $28 in 2012, Brebner said, compared with $18.13 so far
this year. Prices yesterday reached $22.21, the highest level
since September 1980.  The metal, used to create the first telegraph messages,
posted a seventh quarterly advance in the third quarter, the
best streak since 1974. Prices reached an all-time high of
$50.35 an ounce in New York in 1980, a year after the Hunt
brothers tried to corner the market.  The dollar slipped to a six-month low against the euro
yesterday and slumped the past month, boosting precious-metals
prices. Gold for immediate delivery climbed to a record
$1,320.70 an ounce on Oct. 1 and is up 20 percent this year.  Investors have grappled with conflicting reports about the
strength of the world economy. While figures yesterday showed
U.S. factory orders fell more than economists estimated in
August, pending sales of existing homes in the country
increased. China’s non-manufacturing industries expanded at a
faster pace in September, data released Oct. 3 showed.  China’s Economy  “Globally, on the industrial side of things it looks quite
positive, which would result in some outperformance of silver
versus gold into next year,” Brebner said. “Continued strength
in the Chinese economy and the likelihood that imports continue
to rise is quite good. The Chinese, we think, will continue to
be buying into various hard assets, including silver.”  Batteries and other industrial uses account for about half
of silver demand, according to researcher GFMS Ltd. China is the
world’s third-largest user of the metal for industrial and
jewelry purposes after the U.S. and India, according to Deutsche
Bank.  Global holdings of silver in exchange-traded products were
13,749.3 metric tons as of Oct. 1, the most in at least seven
months, data compiled by Bloomberg from four providers show.  An ounce of gold bought as little as 59.4163 ounces of
silver yesterday in London, the least since October last year,
according to Bloomberg data. The ratio fell as low as about
43.57 in 2006 and has averaged about 61.79 this century.  Silver added 17 percent in the third quarter, compared with
a 5.3 percent climb for gold and an 8.1 percent increase for
platinum. Palladium advanced 28 percent. Weaker U.S.
manufacturing growth may pose a risk to further gains for silver
this year, along with a potential slowing of the dollar’s
retreat, Brebner said.  “It’s been a big move,” he said of this year’s advance.
“I’m just starting to think we’re due for a bit of a pullback
here while some of the drivers moderate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Claudia
Carpenter at   ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 