-- Silva Seeks Agenda Support From Brazil Candidates (Correct)
-- B y   A d r i a n a   C h i a r i n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-10-06T11:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/silva-seeks-support-for-her-plank-as-rousseff-serra-vie-for-endorsement.html
(Corrects spelling of Raymond James Latin America SA in
15th paragraph. Story first published Oct. 5.)  Marina Silva, Brazil’s third-place
finisher in this week’s presidential elections, will seek
pledges from the remaining candidates on issues including health
and the environment as they vie for her endorsement.  Dilma Rousseff, the former Cabinet chief for President Luiz
Inacio Lula da Silva, and former Sao Paulo Governor Jose Serra
are courting Silva ahead of the Oct. 31 runoff to choose
Brazil’s next president. In the first round, Rousseff won 47
percent of votes; Serra, 33 percent; and Silva 19 percent.  Silva’s Green Party is seeking support for an agenda that
seeks environmentally sensitive development, prioritizes
education and health spending, and protects citizens’ privacy,
Alfredo Sirkis, who was elected a Green Party federal deputy
Oct. 3, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. The party will
meet in about 15 days to decide whether Silva, who is out of the
race, will back either candidate or remain neutral, Sirkis said.  “We believe some of the Green Party proposals are
feasible,” said Sirkis, a member of the party’s executive
committee. “We won’t ask for the moon.”  Silva, 52, said yesterday she received phone calls from
both candidates congratulating her for the 19.6 million votes
she won.  Rousseff, 62, and Serra, 68, are competing for Silva’s
supporters, who include environmentalists, university-educated
young professionals and a group of evangelical Christians who
defected from Rousseff on concern she favors legalizing
abortion.  “Now everything begins once more,” Silva told reporters
late yesterday in Sao Paulo. “It’s a second chance for us
all.”  Governors and Senators  Lula asked governors and senators from the ruling coalition
that were elected this week to help bring on board voters who
chose Silva in the first round, Institutional Affairs Minister
Alexandre Padilha told reporters today in Brasilia.  “We will dialogue with Marina’s voters, with the social and
popular movements, congressmen and mayors that supported
Marina,” Padilha said. “We will talk not only to Marina, but
with the group of parties and associations that supported her,
because we think they raised key issues for Brazil, such as the
environmental agenda.”  Silva’s supporters have higher incomes and more education
than average, and are more likely to switch to Serra instead of
Rousseff because of concern about media reports that tied her
associates to alleged influence peddling, said Christopher
Garman, director for Latin America at Washington-based
researcher Eurasia Group. Still, Rousseff has an 80 percent
chance of winning, he said.  Stronger Real  “Dilma is so close to winning that she doesn’t need many
votes from Marina,” Garman said in a telephone interview.  Brazil’s currency surged to its strongest level in more
than two years as Japan’s interest rate cut overwhelmed Brazil’s
efforts to weaken the currency by taxing foreign purchases of
bonds. The real climbed 1.7 percent to 1.6692 against the dollar
as of 3:25 p.m. in New York.  A Datafolha poll taken Oct. 1-2 showed that Silva drew her
biggest support among young adults with university educations
and income of more than 5,100 reais ($3,047) who live in
metropolitan areas. While her support was 16 percent overall,
she drew the backing of 27 percent of Brazilians with college
degrees, according to the poll, which surveyed 20,960 people and
had a margin of error of two percentage points.  Considering Options  Serra may seek to overcome Rousseff’s lead by stepping up
attacks alleging ties to corruption, promising benefits to the
poor and wooing religious voters, analysts said. Rousseff’s
support in polls declined after media reports of alleged
influence peddling by family members of Erenice Guerra, her
successor in Lula’s Cabinet. Guerra, who denies wrongdoing,
resigned her post to fight the accusations that her sons helped
negotiate contracts for companies doing business with the
government.  Another month of campaigning may “add some spice to the
contest” as the two candidates spell out their positions, St.
Petersburg, Florida-based investment firm Raymond James Latin
America SA said yesterday in a report.  “We expect the race to develop a slightly more populist
twist, following Serra’s proposal to raise the minimum wage by
18 percent next year, with Dilma likely countering this with a
similar promise,” the report said.  Environmental Battles  Silva resigned from Lula’s cabinet in 2008 after losing
environmental battles to business interests. She spent her
childhood tapping rubber trees in the Amazon rain forest and
worked as a maid before entering politics.  Serra, the former governor of Brazil’s wealthiest and most
populous state, is running as a member of the Brazilian Social
Democracy Party. He pledges to expand the economy in a
“sustainable way” and said Brazil must no longer be the nation
with the highest interest rates in the world and the biggest tax
burden among developing nations.  Rousseff, a former Marxist guerrilla who was Lula’s former
Cabinet chief, has pledged continuity with her mentor’s policies
that helped lift 21 million out of poverty since 2003. Latin
America’s biggest economy will grow 7.3 percent this year, the
most in more than two decades, according to central bank
estimates.  Abortion Question  Rousseff’s remarks that abortion is a “public health
issue” rather than a religious one may have been decisive in
pushing the election to a second round, said Rafael Cortez, a
political scientist at Tendencias Consultoria Integrada in Sao
Paulo. Rousseff made the comments in a July TV interview, and
the comment led to criticism from church groups, which took it
to imply support for liberalization of Brazil’s abortion laws.  Religion is likely to play a larger role in the second
round as both candidates try to appeal to voters who backed
Silva, an evangelical Christian who prays daily on the campaign
trail, said Alexandre Barros, president of Brasilia-based
political risk analysis firm Early Warning.  “Evangelicals have been a political force for a long time
in congressional elections, but never before for the
executive,” Barros said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Chiarini in Rio de Janeiro at 
 achiarini4@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  