-- Singapore to Equip A380s, 777s With Internet Access
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-10-05T15:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/singapore-air-to-equip-a380s-777s-with-internet-phone-access.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. , the world’s
second-largest carrier by market capitalization, said it will
equip long-range wide-body planes with Internet and phone-
message access to meet growing demand from business travelers.  The carrier signed a contract with OnAir NV, an onboard-
communications provider part-owned by aircraft maker Airbus
SAS, to install Wi-Fi Internet and mobile-phone links on the
planes in 2011, Singapore Airlines  said  today. The company will
make the services available on Airbus A340-500s and A380s and
 Boeing Co. ’s 777-300ER models.  Singapore Airlines will become the first major carrier in
Asia to offer connectivity on board. Dubai-based Emirates, the
Arab region’s largest airline, said in July that it plans
starting in 2012 to offer in-flight communications on all 90 of
its A380s, also using Geneva-based OnAir as the supplier.  “This is not a revenue-focused move,”  Nick Ionides , a
Singapore Airlines spokesman, said today by phone. “Our
customers would expect this sort of thing from us as the world
becomes more connected.”  Passengers will be able to use their laptop computers,
mobile phones or smartphones such as  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and
 Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry device. Initially, only
text-message service will be available for the phones, Ionides
said, adding that Singapore Airlines hasn’t decided whether to
enable voice calls.  Fees for Wi-Fi connections haven’t yet been set, Ionides
said. Mobile-phone messages will be charged to customers’
accounts with their existing providers.  OnAir Customers  OnAir has about two dozen airline  customers  allowing in-
flight mobile-phone roaming links via 200 network operators
globally.  British Airways Plc  offers both voice and data on a
single business-class route linking London City airport with
New York.  Inmarsat Plc , the world’s biggest provider of satellite
services to the maritime industry, will supply communications
access via so-called L-band frequencies. OnAir said the airline
will gain access to more bandwidth as passengers use the
service more often.  “Following the Emirates deal earlier in the year and now
with Singapore, it’s really confirmed that L-band technology is
the right technology today,” OnAir Chief Executive Officer  Ian Dawkins  said in a telephone interview.  Phone-Traffic Growth  OnAir expects less than one-third of passengers to use the
services initially, Dawkins said. Higher-capacity Ka-band
frequencies will be available in 2014, and “airlines like
Emirates or Singapore may want to progress to it” once they
see a need, Dawkins said. Almost all the equipment is the same
for both sets of frequencies, Dawkins said.  Singapore Airlines  aims to equip 43 aircraft with the
services before 2013, Ionides said. The carrier is also likely
to install the technology on the planned Airbus A350 and Boeing
787 planes it’s buying, he said. The company won’t install
services on its Airbus A330s, which it’s flying only for a few
years until the A350s are ready, he said.  OnAir is 30 percent-owned by Airbus, the world’s largest
planemaker, and 70 percent by SITA, the world’s biggest
provider of air transport-related applications and
communications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 