-- U.S. Office Rent Decline Slowed in Third Quarter, Reis Says
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2010-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/slump-in-u-s-office-rents-eases-as-vacancy-rate-remains-near-17-year-high.html
U.S. office rents fell in the third
quarter at their slowest pace since the first three months of
2009, suggesting demand may be stabilizing even as vacancies
hover at a 17-year high, said property research firm  Reis Inc.   Actual rents paid by office tenants, known as effective
rents, dropped 3.6 percent from a year earlier to an average of
$22.05 a square foot, Reis said in a statement today. They were
little changed from the second quarter’s $22.06 a square foot.  Landlords may be able to boost rents in the fourth quarter
as the economy recovers from the worst recession since the
1930s, New York-based Reis said. Effective rents had fallen at
an average rate of 7.7 percent year over year in the four
previous quarters, according to the company’s data. The decline
for July through September was the smallest since last year’s
first quarter, when rents also dropped 3.6 percent.  “The pace of deterioration has clearly slowed,” Ryan
Severino, an economist at Reis, said in the statement.  Effective rents were essentially unchanged from the second
quarter even as asking rents fell 0.1 percent, a sign landlords
may be paring concessions. Asking rents decreased 2.2 percent
from a year earlier.  Gross domestic product grew at a 1.7 percent annual pace in
the second quarter after expanding 3.7 percent in the first
three months of the year and 5 percent at the end of 2009.
Orders for U.S. capital goods rebounded in August and pending
sales of existing homes climbed for a second month, according to
reports yesterday, showing the economic recovery is stabilizing.  Rising Joblessness  A rebound in leasing depends on the pace of employment,
Reis said. Economists estimate the  jobless rate  probably rose in
September for a second month, climbing to 9.7 percent from 9.6
percent in August, according to the  median estimate  of 62
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The overall vacancy rate for office buildings rose to 17.5
percent in the third quarter, the highest since 1993, from 16.6
percent a year earlier, Reis said. Vacancies were up from 17.4
percent in the second quarter, which also was a 17-year high,
according to Reis.  Tacoma, Washington, had the most growth in effective rents
from the previous quarter, at 0.9 percent, Reis said. It was
followed by Pittsburgh; Rochester, New York; St. Louis; and
Louisville, Kentucky.  The biggest decline was in Minneapolis, where rents fell
1.2 percent, followed by Tulsa, Oklahoma; San Bernardino and
Riverside, California; Seattle; and Tampa and St. Petersburg,
Florida, according to Reis.  Washington had the lowest office vacancy rate at 9.8
percent, followed by New York; Birmingham, Alabama; Long Island,
New York; and Nashville, Tennessee, Reis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hui-yong Yu  in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  