-- Soros Says Germany Threatens Europe With `Deflationary Spiral'
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-10-05T16:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/soros-says-germany-s-policies-threaten-europe-with-deflationary-spiral-.html
Germany’s push for European fiscal
prudence amid tepid growth and sovereign-debt burdens is “liable
to send the euro zone into a deflationary spiral,” billionaire
investor  George Soros  said.  German leaders have insisted on fiscal austerity measures
in the euro zone while continuing to cut their own deficits as
exports have led to the fastest economic growth since
reunification. German gross domestic product grew at 9 percent
in the second quarter and unemployment has continued to fall.  In May, the European Union offered a 750 billion euro ($1
trillion) rescue fund for Greece and other peripheral members of
the region to help address concerns about sovereign default. The
loan package imposed budget rules on distressed euro-area
members. Governments in Spain, Italy and Portugal have all
pledged to step up deficit-cutting efforts.  However “deficit reduction by a creditor country such as
Germany is in direct contradiction of the lessons learned from
the Great Depression of the 1930s,” the 80-year-old Soros said
in prepared remarks for a speech at Columbia University. When
both creditor and debtor countries reduce their deficits amid
high unemployment they “set in motion a deflationary spiral in
debtor countries. It is liable to push Europe into a period of
prolonged stagnation or worse.”  EU Views  The European fiscal crisis and cleanup operation confirmed
Germany’s preeminence in Europe, he said. It also made the
German people even more hesitant to embark on expanded EU
ventures as 53 percent regard the euro as a “bad thing,”
according to a June poll by the German Marshall Fund of the U.S.  The 16-nation common currency has risen 14 percent against
the dollar since touching a four-year low in June. Soros said
success for the currency may be short-lived.  “Under duress, the euro has begun to remedy its main
shortcoming, the lack of a common treasury,” Soros said. “But
it is far too early to celebrate because the emerging common
fiscal policy is dictated by Germany and Germany is wedded to a
false doctrine of macro-economic stability, which recognizes
only the threat of inflation and ignores the possibility of
deflation.”  Soros said more government spending is needed in the U.S.,
in lieu of monetary stimulus, to sustain the country’s budding
recovery and avoid chocking off growth.  U.S. Policies  “There are times like the present when we cannot count on
the private sector to employ the available resources,” he said.
“I do not believe that monetary policy can be successfully
substituted for fiscal policy. Quantitative easing is more
likely to stimulate corporations to devour each other than to
create employment.”  Soros said President  Barack Obama  has failed to make a
convincing case to congress and the American public about the
need for more stimulus.  “There is real danger that the premature pursuit of fiscal
rectitude may wreck the recovery.” he said. “This may be the
right policy, but it comes at the wrong time.”  Soros gained fame in the 1990s when he reportedly made $1
billion correctly betting against the British pound. He also
wagered that Germany’s mark would appreciate after the collapse
of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and that Japanese stocks would start
to fall in the same year.  Soros Fund Management LLC manages about $25 billion. Soros
is no longer running the fund, he said in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net 
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  