-- South Korean Won Drops as Technical Indicator Suggests Rally Will Falter
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-05T01:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/south-korean-won-drops-as-technical-indicator-suggests-rally-will-falter.html
South Korea’s won fell for the first
time in seven days, snapping its longest winning streak in eight
weeks, as technical indicators signaled the rally was excessive.  The won’s relative strength index, which traders use to
predict reversals in prices, suggests the currency may falter
after climbing 8.9 percent in the past three months, the best
performance in Asia. The nation is prepared to battle
speculators as needed by intervening in the currency market, the
finance ministry said in a report prepared for a parliamentary
audit yesterday.  The currency is falling because “we saw such large gains
in the past week,” said  Ha Joon Woo , a Seoul-based currency
dealer at Daegu Bank. “Still I see 1,110 against the dollar to
be a possible range reached by the end of the week.”  The won slipped 0.5 percent to 1,128.21 per dollar in Seoul
as of 10:08 a.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 1,122.30 yesterday, the strongest level since May 5, and
gained 5.1 percent last month, the biggest advance in a year.  The U.S. dollar’s 14-day relative strength index against
the won, a comparison of the magnitude of gains and losses, fell
to 21 yesterday, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. The
reading has been below 30 since Sept. 28, a threshold that means
the dollar’s decline was too fast and may reverse. The last time
the index fell below 30, in the week ended Jan. 15, the dollar
climbed 4 percent in the subsequent three weeks.  The  Kospi  stock index fell from a two-year high and the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  slipped by the most in a month after
U.S. factory orders fell 0.5 percent, the Commerce Department
reported yesterday in Washington. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected a 0.4 percent decrease. The U.S. is South
Korea’s second-largest export market.  The yield on the 3.75 percent debt due June 2013 fell three
basis points to 3.27 percent, the lowest level reached since the
notes were issued in June, according to Korea Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 