-- Soybeans Advance on Signs of Increased Overseas Demand for U.S. Supplies
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-10-05T19:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/soybeans-advance-on-signs-of-increased-overseas-demand-for-u-s-supplies.html
Soybeans rose the most in more than a
week on increased overseas demand for supplies from the U.S, the
biggest producer and exporter.  U.S. exporters sold 225,000 metric tons to China, the
largest consumer, for delivery in the marketing year that began
Sept. 1, the Department of Agriculture said today. Egypt’s
state-run Food Industries Holding Co. agreed to buy 20,000
metric tons of soybean oil in a tender.  “China’s demand for U.S. supplies continues to drive the
market higher,” said  Greg Grow , the director of agribusiness
for Archer Financial Services Inc. in Chicago. “Global demand
for soybeans and soybean products continues to improve.”  Soybean futures for November delivery rose 17.75 cents, or
1.7 percent, to close at $10.7175 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the biggest gain since Sept. 24. The
price plunged 4.8 percent in the past two days, touching a two-
week low yesterday at $10.42. On Sept. 27, the oilseed reached a
15-month high of $11.44.  The dollar dropped to the lowest level since January
against a basket of currencies including the euro and yen on
speculation that the Federal Reserve will increase purchases of
government debt to stimulate the economy. A weaker dollar helps
to reduce the cost of U.S. supplies for overseas buyers.  Export Sales Surge  Export sales jumped 60 percent to 1.738 million tons in the
week ended Sept. 23 from a week earlier, USDA data show.  Total
sales  and shipments this marketing year rose to 21.277 million
tons, up from 20.167 million at the same time a year earlier,
according to the agency.  “The dollar’s decline is boosting U.S. exports,” Grow
said.  The price also rose on speculation that a strengthening La
Nina weather event may threaten crops that farmers are just
beginning to plant in Brazil and Argentina, the biggest
producers and exporters after the U.S., Grow said.  Cooling Pacific Ocean equatorial waters and other weather
anomalies point to a strong La Nina in October, the  Commodity
Weather Group LLC  said in a report to clients. That usually
means dry weather in Argentina and parts of Uruguay, Paraguay
and southern Brazil.  “There is increased uncertainty about the South America
growing season and crop potential,” Grow said. “People do not
want to be short ahead of the growing season.”  The soybean crop in the U.S. was valued at $31.8 billion
last year, second only to corn at $48.6 billion, government
figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 