-- Spain Trails Italy After Biggest Rally Since Lehman Collapse: Euro Credit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-10-06T10:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/spain-trails-italy-after-biggest-rally-since-lehman-collapse-euro-credit.html
The best rally in Spanish bonds since
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008 hasn’t convinced
investors the nation is a safer pick than Italy.  Spain’s economy will grow at half the pace of Italy next
year as it struggles with the highest unemployment rate in the
European Union, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
country also has 22 percent of its debt coming due in 2011, the
most among the so-called euro peripherals.  “The structural issues are going to take quite a few years
to sort out,” said  Toby Nangle , director of asset allocation at
London-based Baring Asset Management, who helps oversee about
$46 billion for clients. “I feel relatively comfortable with
Italy and not with Spain.”  Even after Spanish bonds returned 4.1 percent in the third
quarter to outperform those of Italy, the  extra yield  that
investors demand to hold 10-year Spanish debt rather than German
bunds was 178 basis points today. The Italian-German spread was
152 basis points, signaling investors are more confident about
Italy’s prospects than Spain’s outlook.  Spain has to sell almost 25 percent of the bonds it has
planned for this year, twice that of Italy, according to
analysts at BNP Paribas SA. Bank of Spain Governor  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  said yesterday the country’s economy showed a
“clear weakening” in the third quarter after a report said
services from hotels to banking contracted last month by the
most since February.  Financial Backstop  Europe’s debt crisis started almost a year ago in Greece
and prompted the EU to craft a $1 trillion aid package in May,
forcing countries across the region to take unpopular steps such
as imposing higher taxes and wage cuts.  “We continue to be concerned about Portugal, Ireland,
Greece and Spain,” said  Andrew Balls , London-based head of
European portfolio management at Pacific Investment Management
Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond fund. “We are looking
for higher-quality alternatives, such as corporate positions and
emerging markets positions.”  The third-quarter market rally reduced the yield on Spain’s
benchmark 10-year bond to 4.04 percent at 12:20 p.m. in Madrid.
By contrast, Italy’s equivalent bond yielded 3.78 percent.  Italian 10-year yields were  higher  than those of Spain in
the eight years before Greece’s near default in April, as Italy
had the region’s largest debt load.  Bonds Stable  As the European debt crisis intensified, Italian bonds were
relatively stable, with 10-year yields ranging from 3.72 percent
to 4.36 percent this year, a gap of 63 basis points. The swing
for equivalent Spanish securities went from 3.8 percent to 4.99,
or 119 basis points.  “Italy is the sweet spot,” said  Robert Crossley , a rates
strategist at Citigroup Global Markets in London. “You have
very good fundamentals that are a world away from Spain.”  Spain needs to sell an estimated 23 billion euros of bonds
this year, equal to about 25 percent of its bond funding
requirements, BNP Paribas estimates. By contrast, Italy has sold
88 percent of its total debt issuance.  “It’s an important factor differentiating Spain from the
rest of the periphery,” said  Ioannis Sokos , a London-based
interest rate strategist at BNP Paribas, which recommends buying
Italian five-year bonds and selling  similar maturity  Spanish
securities.  Italian Performance  Italian 10-year bonds returned 3.8 percent this year,
compared with 2.1 percent for Spain, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Irish debt lost 3.6 percent, Greek bonds
fell 13.5 percent and Portugal declined 6.1 percent.  Last quarter was the best for Spanish bonds since before
Lehman went bankrupt in September 2008 as investors backed
government steps to lower wages and raise taxes to cut a deficit
that reached 11.1 percent of gross domestic product last year.  While the austerity measures may have pleased investors,
they are weighing on the Spanish economy. GDP growth will be 0.5
percent next year, compared with 1 percent for Italy, according
to the Bloomberg survey. Industrial production gained 1.4
percent in August from the previous year and output was revised
in July to a contraction of 0.1 percent from the originally
reported expansion of 0.5 percent, a report showed today.  Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  unveiled on Sept. 30 the
2011 budget plan, which targets the deepest deficit reduction in
at least three decades, and said the economy would  contract  0.3
percent in 2010 with unemployment reaching 19.8 percent, about
twice the current EU average. In Italy, joblessness fell to 8.2
percent in August.  ‘Better Shape’  “The growth dynamics in Italy seem to be in better shape
than in Spain and the growth outlook for Italy next year is
higher,” said  Camille Viros , an economist at Barclays Wealth in
London. “Although investors reacted positively to the 2011
Spanish budget, the growth assumptions are probably too
optimistic, making it quite difficult to reach the 6 percent
deficit target by the end of next year.”  Italy’s total debt is forecast to rise by less than 1
percent of GDP in 2011 to 119.2 percent as the budget deficit
narrows to 5.1 percent from 5.3 percent, according to the
government’s Sept. 20 forecasts. Spain’s debt load will jump
from the 62.8 percent estimated for this year to 68.7 percent in
2011, with the deficit shrinking to 6 percent of GDP.  Italy ended the third quarter with Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  surviving a confidence vote in the Senate, signaling
that a rift with a key political ally wouldn’t lead to early
elections this year. His government is preparing a 2011 budget
that won’t need to resort to wage cuts or higher value-added
taxes because the deficit can be reduced toward the EU’s 3
percent limit through less painful measures.  “Being long Italy versus Spain is a good trade,” said
 Harvinder Sian , a fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “The issues that Spain faces are
under-appreciated by the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  