-- Sri Lanka Usurps Vietnam as Asia's Bond `Darling,' Nomura Says
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-10-05T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/sri-lanka-surpasses-vietnam-as-asian-sovereign-bond-darling-nomura-says.html
Sovereign bond investors should buy
debt of Sri Lanka over Vietnam as the island nation progresses
in setting aside three decades of war to record economic growth
that outpaces its rival, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  “Sri Lanka has become the new darling of the Asian
emerging-market space,” credit analysts led by Hong Kong-based
Pradeep Mohinani wrote in an Oct. 5 note to clients. The nation
is the “the sovereign story in Asia to dislodge Vietnam, which
has lost its allure,” he said.  The island nation south of India, recovering from civil
unrest, last month attracted more than $6.3 billion of orders
for a $1 billion global bond sale. The October 2020 notes were
sold to yield 6.25 percent, or 373 basis points more than
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries. The spread has since narrowed
15 basis points to 358 basis points, according to Nomura. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point. Narrowing spreads indicate
rising bond prices.  Sri Lanka’s $42 billion economy expanded 8.5 percent in the
three months to June 30 from a year earlier, the most since 2002,
its statistics department said Sept. 16. The economy may grow as
much as 8 percent this year, more than a previous forecast of 7
percent, the central bank said last month.  “The country clearly has the tailwinds behind it,”
Mohinani wrote. “We expect the entire Sri Lanka curve to
converge to the Vietnam curve in due course,” he said,
referring to movements in benchmark yields.  Vietnam Rates  In Vietnam, banks were asked this week to cut deposit rates
to no more than 11 percent in an effort to spur growth in the
$92 billion economy. The nation’s gross domestic product may
expand 6.7 percent this year,  Nguyen Xuan Phuc , chairman of the
Government Office said on Sept. 30.  The $1 billion of January 2020 bonds sold by Vietnam’s
government in January pay a coupon of 6.75 percent and were
issued at a spread of 332.7 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
They’re now trading at a spread of 292 basis points, having
narrowed 41 basis points, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices on Bloomberg show.  Dollar bonds in Vietnam returned 7 percent last quarter
compared with 6 percent for dollar debt in Sri Lanka, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  