-- Sued-Chemie Majority Owner One Equity Considers Selling Stake in 12 Months
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-10-05T08:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/sued-chemie-majority-owner-one-equity-considers-selling-stake-in-12-months.html
Sued-Chemie AG ’s controlling
shareholder, One Equity Partners, may sell its majority stake in
the German chemical company in the next 12 months now that
earnings are reaching the investment fund’s targets.  One Equity, the buyout unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , has
yet to decide whether to sell the holding, and is under “no
time pressure” for a disposal,  Max Hohenberg , a spokesman for
the fund in Munich, said today in a phone interview.  Sued-Chemie , founded in 1857, is forecasting rising profit
and sales this year and plans to expand operations in Asia. One
Equity  bought  an initial 39 percent stake in the Munich-based
manufacturer in 2005 for 35 euros a share, and now holds just
over 50 percent of the stock. The  shares  cost 104 euros in
German composite trading as of 9:10 a.m. Frankfurt time.  “The company is exiting the crisis with renewed strength
and now we can begin to consider a sale,” Hohenberg said. “We
have achieved a lot in cooperation with the management and
traditional shareholders.”  One Equity’s stake could be sold on the market or to a
strategic investor,  Patrick Salchow , a spokesman at Sued-Chemie,
said by phone, confirming comments by Chief Executive Officer
 Guenter von Au  that German newspaper  Handelsblatt  reported
today. A sale to a  competitor  or customer wouldn’t be desirable
because it may compromise Sued-Chemie’s independence in product
pricing, Salchow said.  Selling new shares in conjunction with One Equity’s stake
disposal is an unlikely option, as it would dilute the holdings
of some long-term investors, Salchow said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  