-- Suit Against Madoff Feeder Fund Beacon Proceeds as Judge Cuts Some Claims
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-05T17:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/suit-against-madoff-feeder-fund-beacon-proceeds-as-judge-cuts-some-claims.html
Investors may pursue securities fraud
claims against  Bank of New York Mellon Corp .’s Ivy Asset
Management LLC for losing client money in  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi
scheme through the Beacon Associates fund, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge  Leonard Sand  in Manhattan today threw
out other claims, including those based on state law, against
Ivy and other defendants in the case. Ivy had a contract to
evaluate and recommend investment managers to Beacon, which
invested about 71 percent of its assets with Madoff.  “Between 1995 and 2008, Beacon invested approximately
$164 million with Madoff and withdrew approximately $26 million,
leaving a net investment of approximately $138 million,” Sand
said in his 82-page opinion.  Investors claim that Ivy withheld suspicions about Madoff
to continue collecting millions in fees on the investments.  In May, New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  sued Ivy and
two of its executives, former Chief Executive Officer  Lawrence Simon  and ex-Chief Investment Officer  Howard Wohl , for fraud in
state court in Manhattan.  “We’re delighted that the claims will proceed into
discovery on behalf of the class,” said  Barbara Hart , a lawyer
for the investors.  Lewis Liman , who represents Ivy, didn’t return a voice-mail
message seeking comment.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty last to orchestrating history’s
biggest Ponzi scheme at his New York firm, Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC. He’s serving a 150-year term in a
federal prison in North Carolina.  The case is In Re Beacon Associates Litigation, 09-CV-777,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  