-- Sun Hung Kai's Kwok Said to Have Been Ousted as Family Trust Beneficiary
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-10-05T09:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/sun-hung-kai-s-kwok-ousted-from-family-trust-after-revamp-standard-says.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. 
Chairwoman  Kwong Siu-hing  reorganized the family trust that
controls the world’s biggest developer by market value to remove
elder son  Walter Kwok  as a beneficiary following a two-year feud,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  A third of the family’s trust, which holds about 42 percent
of the company, “is held for the benefit of Walter Kwok’s
family,” Kwong said in an e-mailed press release issued by the
company yesterday. That effectively omits Walter, who was
stripped of the company chairmanship in 2008, as a beneficiary
of the trust, the person said, declining to be identified as the
issue is private. The statement specifies that the remaining
two-thirds are held by “ Thomas Kwok  and his family” and
“ Raymond Kwok  and his family.”  Deputy chairmen Thomas and Raymond Kwok, sons of the
developer’s late founder Kwok Tak Seng, took over running Sun
Hung Kai, which has a market value of $44 billion, in May 2008
after ousting Walter from the chairmanship and replacing him
with their mother. The family’s combined wealth of $17 billion
ranks third on Forbes Magazine’s list of Hong Kong’s richest.  “I don’t think this will have much impact on the company’s
operation nor its share price,” said  Castor Pang , Hong Kong-
based research director at Cinda International Holdings Ltd.
“Any uncertainty over the control of the company was already
gone when Walter Kwok was removed as chairman in 2008. This
statement basically confirms that he won’t be involved in any
way at all.”  Sun Hung Kai shares  fell  2.4 percent to HK$132.50 at the 4
p.m. close of trading in Hong Kong. The city’s biggest
developers declined after Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said
he’s increasing land supply to ensure the housing market can
grow in a more “healthy” way.  Walter Responds  Brenda Wong , a spokeswoman for Sun Hung Kai, said Walter
Kwok is still a non-executive director of the company. She
declined to comment further. Thomas and Raymond Kwok were not
available for interviews, Wong said. Walter Kwok couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  Walter Kwok said in a separate statement that he and his
family retain a one-third interest in the trust’s holding in Sun
Hung Kai, with his brothers Thomas and Raymond owning the rest.
He disputed that his mother has sole ownership of the Kwok
family  stake  in the Hong Kong-based real estate developer.  The English-language Standard newspaper earlier reported
that Walter had been ousted.  Walter, who became chairman in 1990 after his father’s
death, lost a court battle with younger brothers Thomas and
Raymond in May 2008 to block a vote on whether to oust him.  Family Dispute  Walter said in a court filing at the time that his brothers
tried to remove him because he was suffering from mental illness.
Walter said he didn’t have any such disorder and was suing his
siblings for libel.  Listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange in 1972, Sun Hung
Kai benefitted from a three-decade surge in home prices to
become the city’s biggest developer. Under Walter Kwok, the
company’s value had ballooned 10-fold, while assets rose to
HK$264.5 billion ($34 billion) as of Dec. 31, 2007.  Sun Hung Kai built and runs the 118-floor International
Commerce Center, which at 484 meters (1588 feet) is Hong Kong’s
tallest building. The developer also manages luxury apartment
projects such as the Arch in West Kowloon and the Larvotto in
the Island South district.  Walter took over after the death of his father, who co-
founded the company with billionaire  Lee Shau-kee , who now
controls Henderson Land Development Co. and is the city’s
second-richest man, and Fung King Hei in 1963. The city’s
richest man is  Li Ka-shing , chairman of  Cheung Kong  (Holdings)
Ltd., Hong Kong’s second-biggest developer by value.  Walter Kwok was taken hostage in the late 1990s and then
freed after an undisclosed sum was paid to Hong Kong gang boss
 Cheung Tze-keung , nicknamed “Big Spender.” The Kwok family
never reported the crimes to Hong Kong police.  Cheung was sentenced to death by a Chinese court in 
November 1998 for his role in a string of kidnappings including
that of Walter, the state-run Xinhua news agency reported at the
time.    To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  