-- Swiss Franc Strengthens Against Dollar on Bernanke's Signal on More Easing
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-05T14:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/swiss-franc-strengthens-against-dollar-on-bernanke-s-signal-on-more-easing.html
The franc strengthened to a record
versus the dollar after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the U.S. central bank’s first round of asset purchases
improved the economy and that more buying may be help further.  The franc appreciated for a third day versus the U.S.
currency, extending its gains to 6.3 percent this year. Bernanke
said more so-called quantitative easing has “the ability to
ease financial conditions” and praised the earlier round of
stimulus as an “effective program.” The Swiss currency
declined against the euro after better-than-expected economic
data in the euro region.  Remarks supporting more easing are “always positive for
the franc against the dollar,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a
strategist in London at Deutsche Bank AG. “Swiss franc
developments are so much in the hands of global risk appetite.”  The franc was 0.2 percent stronger at 96.99 centimes per
dollar as of 2:27 p.m. in London, after earlier reaching 96.57
centimes to set the second record in as many days, according to
Bloomberg data.  Brian Sack , the New York Fed official in charge of carrying
out Federal Open Market Committee decisions, yesterday said a
further expansion of the central bank’s $2.3 trillion balance
sheet would help stimulate a recovery that is forecast to be
“relatively tepid.” Bernanke made his comments in response to
questions in Providence, Rhode Island, at a forum with college
students yesterday.  The Swiss currency fell 0.7 percent versus the euro to
1.3383, paring its 1 percent appreciation yesterday, as European
services and manufacturing growth slowed less in September than
initially estimated. The European single currency gained against
15 of its 16 major counterparts today.  Swiss Inflation  Swiss consumer prices increased 0.3 percent from a year
earlier, the  Federal Statistics Office  in Neuchatel said in an
e-mailed statement today. That’s in line with the median
forecast of 11 economists in a Bloomberg News survey and the
weakest since December 2009. In the month,  consumer prices  were
unchanged.  The Swiss franc’s 10 percent gain versus the euro this year
is pushing down the price of imported goods, giving the  Swiss
National Bank  room to keep its benchmark rate at 0.25 percent as
the economy cools. The SNB said last month that inflation may
“temporarily turn slightly negative” in early 2011.  In June, the Zurich-based central bank signaled it will
phase out its 15-month policy of countering franc gains through
purchases of foreign currencies to protect exports and fight
deflation. It said on Sept. 16 that it would only take
“measures necessary” if there was any “renewed threat of
deflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  