-- U.K. Services Index Unexpectedly Increases in Sign of Economy's Resilience
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-05T08:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/u-k-services-index-unexpectedly-increases-in-sign-of-economy-s-resilience.html
A U.K. index of services growth
unexpectedly rose in September as the economy showed signs
of resilience before Prime Minister David Cameron implements
the deepest spending cuts since World War II.   The gauge of services activity increased to 52.8 from 51.3
in August, Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply said in an e-mailed statement today in
London. Economists forecast 51, according to the median of 28
predictions in a  Bloomberg News survey .  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said yesterday 
he would stick to his deficit-reduction plans amid concern 
the spending cuts, which will be announced on Oct. 20, will 
strangle the recovery. The Bank of England will this week
probably keep its asset-purchase plan unchanged at  200 billion
pounds  ($316 billion) as policy makers face calls to increase 
stimulus.  “Slight increases in activity and improvements in business
confidence show the service sector is doing its best to cling
on during a phase of extreme uncertainty,”  David Noble , chief
executive officer at CIPS, said in the statement. “Whilst some
companies are expecting the U.K. economy to pick up in the next
12 months there are wide variations in sentiment.”  The pound rose more than 0.2 percent against the dollar
after the report and traded at $1.5898 as of 9:39 a.m. in
London. The yield on the benchmark two-year government bond was
unchanged today at 0.618 percent.  “Some Reassurance"  The report ‘‘should, temporarily at least, ease fears about
the risk of a double-dip in the economy,’’  Vicky Redwood , an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London and a former Bank
of England official, said in a note. ‘‘Today’s survey at least
provides some reassurance that the economy is not plunging head-
first into a renewed contraction.’’  Ashmore Group Plc, a U.K. fund manager that focuses on
emerging markets, said on Sept. 14 that fiscal full-year profit
rose 39 percent, boosted by higher performance and management
fees after a recovery in global financial markets. Whitbread
Plc, the U.K.’s largest hotel and restaurant operator, said last
month that first-half sales increased 14 percent as more
businesses used Premier Inn budget hotels.  Noble still said that companies in the hotels and
restaurants industry were the ‘‘least confident’’ because of
their susceptibility to consumer spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  