-- U.K. Clothing Retailers Hold Prices With Cotton at 15-Year High
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-10-05T23:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/u-k-retailers-swallow-cotton-price-increase-as-costs-rise-to-15-year-high.html
Charles Tyrwhitt,  the U.K. clothing
maker known for dressing bankers and executives, will absorb the
highest cotton prices in 15 years to keep the cost of its least-
expensive shirts at 29.95 pounds ($47).  Instead, Britain’s largest retailer of shirts by mail order
will raise prices of 199-pound suits and 99-pound shoes by
“adding more value with workmanship and design,” said  Nick Wheeler , founder of the 24-year-old company, whose 14 stores
include locations in London, New York and Paris.  “People want good value, you can’t just bump up the
prices,” Wheeler, 45, said in an interview. “Reducing the
quality or adding polyester-blends to shirts would be a mistake.
One thing you can never change is the quality.”  Retailers are trying to keep entry-level prices accessible
while protecting their margins as customers seek to trim
spending amid pessimism on personal finances and the economy.
After a decade of virtually no inflation, clothing prices may
rise by as much as 8 percent next year,  Next Plc  Chief Executive
Officer  Simon Wolfson  said last month. The cost of women’s
clothing has already risen by 5.4 percent this fall season,
Verdict Research said.  “It’s not good news for retailers,” said  Andy Wade , an
analyst at Numis Securities in London. “Because the prices are
so low anyway, it’s difficult to re-engineer the mix without
making your prices obviously higher.”  Surging Cotton  Cotton futures rose to their highest since June 1995 last
month and have gained 61 percent in the past year as increasing
Chinese demand for imports depletes world stocks of the fiber.
Imports of cotton into China doubled in 2010’s first eight
months from a year earlier, according to Customs General
Administration figures. India, the second-biggest supplier, said
on Sept. 28 that shipments will begin Nov. 1, a month later than
expected by the textiles industry.  U.K. consumer spending “is likely to be fairly restrained
in 2011,” the Confederation of British Industry said Sept. 28,
even as a retail sales index rose to a six-year high. Britain’s
value-added tax will increase to 20 percent from 17.5 percent in
January.  Discount fashion retailers like  Associated British Foods
Plc’s  Primark and Peacocks Group Ltd. may be worst affected as
they “have a low margin in the first place,” Wade said.  Primark, known for budget clothing such as a 3-pound t-
shirt, says the “huge volumes” of products sold by the 196-
store chain means it can “secure good pricing from suppliers.”
“Primark intends to remain the best value on the high street,”
said  Chris Barrie , a spokesman at Citigate Dewe Rogerson.  Entry-Level Products  Recognizing that customers have less to spend, most
retailers have capped the price of entry-level products and are
looking to pass on the higher commodity prices in other areas.  “It’s about having flexibility with the prices you
offer,” Execution Noble Ltd. retail analyst Caroline Gulliver
said. “Retailers will play around with packet sizes like
offering 2-packs of socks not three, but their aim will be to
keep prices low. Retailers are keeping entry-level prices flat
and pushing up the higher-end,” like winter coats.  Discount clothing retailers such as  Primark  and supermarket
chains including  Tesco Plc  will be keen to keep their “low
price credentials,” said Neil Saunders, consulting director at
Verdict. That means they have to sell large quantities of
clothing to compensate for lower margins.  “Their business models are dependent on volume and very
thin margins,” Saunders said. “If you put up prices the danger
is volumes drop. It’s a fine balancing act for them.”  Charles Tyrwhitt’s Wheeler is betting that he can take the
loss of margin on shirts, where sales have climbed 48 percent in
the year to date, as he negotiates better terms with suppliers.  “If you want a successful business, you look after your
customers, people who work for you and suppliers,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  