-- U.S. Missile Strike Is Said to Kill Eight German Militants in Waziristan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-05T08:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/u-s-missile-strike-is-said-to-kill-eight-german-militants-in-waziristan.html
A U.S. missile strike in Pakistan
killed eight suspected German militants, two Pakistani security
officials said, as governments stepped up warnings of possible
terrorist attacks in Europe.  Two missiles exploded in Moussaki, an ethnic Pashtun
farming village in North Waziristan, a Taliban-dominated
district on the border with Afghanistan, the officials said,
declining to be identified. U.S. and Pakistani officials say al-
Qaeda and affiliated groups have used the district to prepare
militant attacks such as the May 1 car-bomb attempt in New
York’s Times Square.  All of the men killed were Germans, one of the security
officials based in northwest Pakistan said. The nationalities of
three foreigners injured in the attack have not been confirmed,
he said in a telephone interview.  Germany is looking into reports that some of its nationals
were killed in the attack, Foreign Ministry spokesman Andreas
Peschke said by phone today, declining further comment.  The missiles destroyed a guesthouse in the walled compound
in Moussaki, about 800 meters south of Mir Ali, North
Waziristan’s second-largest town, the two Pakistani officials
said. Mir Ali is a center for several al-Qaeda and Taliban
factions.  The strike was the 26th in 37 days to hit Waziristan, the
highest tempo of such strikes since they began in 2004,
according to  a count maintained  by the Washington-based  New
America Foundation . All apart from three in the wave of missile
attacks -- fired from remotely piloted Predator or Reaper
aircraft -- have hit North Waziristan.  Europe Warnings  The escalation is in response to U.S. intelligence reports
saying al-Qaeda is using North Waziristan to prepare militants
for attacks in Europe similar to the 2008 guerrilla raid on the
Indian city of Mumbai that killed 166 people, according to
reports in the New York Times and other U.S newspapers that have
cited unnamed U.S. officials.  German security officials say about 200 Islamists with links
to Germany have sought training in terrorist camps, including in
Pakistan, since the 1990s. They could pose a security threat if
they return to Germany, the Federal Office for the Protection of
the Constitution, Germany’s domestic intelligence agency, said
in a report in June. The suspects include naturalized immigrants
and German converts to Islam, the report said.  The U.S. government Oct. 3 warned Americans traveling in
Europe to be vigilant against a possible Islamic militant attack,
and similar alerts have been issued by Canada, New Zealand,
Australia, Japan and the U.K.  Since at least 2005, the mountainous district of North
Waziristan has been a training and recruiting center for al-
Qaeda and other militant factions, including the Afghan and
Pakistani Taliban movements and the Islamic Movement of
Uzbekistan, according to residents and officials there
interviewed during the period.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
 Jrupert2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  