-- U.S. Favors Foreign-Exchange Rates Based on Markets, Treasury Aide Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-10-05T20:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/u-s-favors-foreign-exchange-rates-based-on-markets-treasury-aide-says.html
The U.S. favors exchange rate
policies based on market forces, a U.S. Treasury official said
today when asked about Japan’s policy toward the yen.  Japan sold the yen last month for the first time in six
years to spur exports and economic growth, joining countries
across Asia and Latin America that have sought to temper gains
in their currencies against the dollar.  Tensions over exchange rate policies prompted Brazil’s
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to warn Sept. 27 of a “currency
war.” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  is slated to
attend this week’s meeting of the International Monetary Fund,
World Bank and Group of 20 nations and he plans to travel to
Gyeongju, South Korea, to attend the Oct. 22 and 23 meetings of
G-20 finance ministers and central bankers.  The U.S. expects that this weekend’s meetings will lead to
agreement that governments need to allow the global economy to
continue adjusting and rebalancing, the Treasury official said
in Washington on condition of anonymity. This means that
countries with a trade surplus, like Japan and China, need to
emphasize domestic demand and help their economies become less
reliant on exports, the official said.  Nations need to avoid a premature end to economic stimulus,
and particularly a mass rush for the exits, the official said,
citing a forthcoming IMF report that says budget cutting efforts
could hurt the global economy more than usual in the short term.
The official said the IMF projects an even greater impact on
economic output if countries cut their budgets at once, a topic
that is likely to be a theme of this weekend’s talks.  On the Mend  The global economy is on the mend and growing at a modest
pace, the official said, although unemployment is too high, and
the outlook remains uncertain.  The official called on the IMF to speak out on the need for
countries to allow economic rebalancing and tighten financial
regulation. The IMF’s surveillance responsibilities will be of
increasing importance as countries weigh how to overhaul the
fund’s governance system, the U.S. official said.  The U.S. is calling for European nations to give up some of
their seats on the IMF’s board to make room for emerging-market
economies. The U.S. official said that countries sitting at the
table need to shoulder their responsibilities for the global
recovery, including allowing exchange rates to move to reflect
market fundamentals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  