-- Stocks, Gold Gain, Yen Weakens on Services Growth, Japan Easing
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   D a v i d   M e r r i t t
-- 2010-10-05T23:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/u-s-futures-gain-yen-weakens-after-boj-stimulus-measures-gold-tin-rise.html
Stocks surged, sending U.S. benchmark
indexes to their highest levels since May, while the dollar slid
and gold climbed to a record as American service industries
expanded more than forecast and speculation grew that central
banks will join Japan’s efforts to stoke economic growth.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 2.1 percent to
1,160.75 at 4 p.m. in New York. The Dollar Index slid 0.8
percent to 77.812, an almost nine-month low. Gold futures
climbed to as high as $1,342.90 an ounce, silver reached a 30-
year high and tin jumped to a record near $26,000 a metric ton.
Treasury 10-year  yields  held near a five-week low, while 2-year
yields hovered near a  record low .  The faster-than-estimated growth in the Institute for
Supply Management’s gauge of service industries bolstered
optimism that the economic rebound is picking up. The Bank of
Japan’s decision to create a fund to buy bonds and other assets
comes as policy makers in the U.S. and the U.K. consider similar
steps, known as quantitative easing, to protect the recoveries.  “We’re seeing more optimism creep into the market as we
approach earnings season,” said  Eric Teal , chief investment
officer at First Citizens Bancshares Inc. in Raleigh, North
Carolina, which manages $4.5 billion. “There’s the positive
backdrop coming from additional quantitative easing measures.
The ISM figure was a positive indicator because of its potential
to lift employment data in future quarters.”  Five-Month High  The S&P 500 erased yesterday’s 0.8 percent decline and
climbed to its highest level since May 12. The index needs to
gain 0.4 percent to reach its level on May 5, the day before the
20-minute crash that briefly erased $862 billion from the value
of U.S. shares.  Apple Inc.  rose 3.7 percent after Jefferies & Co. advised
buying the shares. Chevron Corp., the second-largest U.S. oil
company, climbed 2.6 percent after saying it will buy back its
stock at a rate of $500 million to $1 billion a quarter.  Banks surged 3.2 percent collectively, the biggest gain
among 24 groups in the S&P 500, as JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
they will likely beat third-quarter profit estimates.  Alcoa Inc.  will unofficially start the earnings season on
Oct. 7 as the first Dow Jones Industrial Average company to
report results. Analysts forecast that S&P 500 earnings
increased 23 percent in the third quarter and will grow 31
percent in the current period.  Investors also awaited Oct. 8 government data forecast to
show the  jobless rate  increased as the economic recovery failed
to keep up with a growing labor force. Private payrolls grew by
75,000 jobs last month and the  unemployment rate  rose to 9.7
percent from 9.6 percent, according to the median estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Quantitative Easing  The 10-year U.S. Treasury note yield slipped 1 basis point
to 2.47 percent, near a five-week low, while the yield on
similar-maturity Japanese securities reached 0.895 percent,
matching a seven-year low set in August.  Two-year Treasury note yields fell one basis point to below
0.4 percent, near a record low, after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the first so-called quantitative-easing
round improved the economy and more purchases would “ease
financial conditions.”  “The prospects of QE should keep yields very low,” said
 Sergey Bondarchuk , an interest-rate strategist in New York at
BNP Paribas SA, one of the 18 primary dealers that trade
directly with the Fed. “The bid will stay here until we get a
strong upside surprise. It will take a strong payroll number for
people to start questioning QE 2.”  Fed Purchases  The Fed snapped up $300 billion of Treasuries last year,
and said in August it would reinvest proceeds from maturing
mortgage holdings into government debt. The central bank bought
$5.19 billion of Treasuries maturing from September 2016 to May
2017 today.  Convertible securities are beating the U.S. corporate bond
market by the most in more than 10 years as investors wager
stocks will outperform company debt paying record-low yields.  Debentures that can be exchanged for shares returned 4.42
percentage points more than company bonds in September, the
biggest gap since August 2000, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Investors are seeking to profit from
the rally in equities by buying convertible bonds, which are
deemed safer than stocks should the economy slip back into
recession.  Junk bond prices are above par for the first time since
2007 and the S&P 500  trades  at 15 times the past 12 months’
earnings, a 28 percent discount based on its 20-year average.  Default Swaps Retreat  A gauge of corporate credit risk in the U.S. fell below 100
basis points for the first time in two months. The Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index, a credit-default swaps
benchmark that investors use to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 6.4
basis points to a mid-price of 98.7 basis points, according to
Markit Group Ltd.  The dollar weakened against 14 of 16 major currencies,
losing more than 1 percent versus the euro, South African rand
and Brazilian real.  The yen fell against 13 of its 16 most active peers and the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average  climbed  1.5 percent after the Bank of
Japan cut the overnight call rate target to a range of 0 percent
to 0.1 percent, the lowest level since 2006, from 0.1 percent.
Policy makers will set up a 5 trillion yen fund to buy
government bonds and other assets.  Yen Vs. Dollar  The Japanese currency touched a level stronger than 83
against the dollar for the first time since Japan intervened in
foreign-exchange markets in September to protect its export-
dependent economy.  The Australia dollar dropped against 12 of 16 of its most-
traded peers. Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens 
kept the overnight cash rate target at 4.5 percent, as forecast
by six of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Brazil’s currency surged to its strongest level in more
than two years as Japan’s interest rate cut overwhelmed efforts
by President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva to weaken the currency by
taxing foreign purchases of bonds. The real climbed to 1.6680
against the dollar, the strongest since September 2008. Brazil
doubled a tax it charges foreigners on investments in fixed-
income securities yesterday to limit capital inflows.  The euro appreciated 1.1 percent to $1.3836, an eight-month
high, and the Swiss franc climbed to a record against the dollar
for the second consecutive day, jumping as much as 0.7 percent
to $1.0368.  HSBC, Santander  More than seven stocks rose for each that fell on the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, sending the regional benchmark up 1.3 percent
for its best gain in a month. HSBC Holdings Plc of the U.K. and
Spain’s Banco Santander SA paced a rally in banks.  Greek stocks climbed, sending the benchmark ASE Index up 1
percent, as Moody’s Investors Service said it’s “impressed” by
steps to overhaul the nation’s public finances. EFG Eurobank
Ergasias led a rally in Greek banks, climbing 5.6 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed for a sixth day,
rising 0.9 percent to the highest level since June 2008.
Brazil’s Bovespa stock index rallied 1.3 percent.  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index  advanced 1.3 percent to a
record and yields on benchmark two-year Turkish bonds fell 3
basis points to 8.16 percent. Moody’s changed the outlook on
Turkey’s Ba2 local and foreign-currency government bond ratings
to “positive” from “stable,” saying the economy has returned
to pre-crisis levels and debt management improved.  Mexico plans to sell $1 billion of bonds due in 100 years
in the longest-maturity debt issue by a Latin American country.
The government, which doubled the size of the sale from $500
million, may sell the bonds to yield 6.1 percent as soon as
today, said a person familiar with the transaction. Deutsche
Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are arranging the sale.  Silver rose 3.2 percent to $22.737 an ounce and touched
$22.79, the highest price since 1980. Crude oil climbed 1.7
percent to $82.82 a barrel, a five-month settlement high on the
New York Mercantile Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 David Merritt  in London on 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  