-- UBS Woos Asia's Richest Amid `Incredible' Wealth Spurt
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-10-05T03:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/ubs-targets-asia-s-ultra-rich-amid-region-s-incredible-wealth-creation.html
UBS AG , Switzerland’s largest bank,
is putting more focus on its richest clients in Asia and
bringing its investment bankers closer to asset managers to meet
their demands.  Wealth managed for clients with at least 50 million Swiss
francs ($51 million) of assets will grow annually by about 10
percent to 20 percent in the region over the next three to five
years,  Carlo Grigioni , vice chairman of wealth management at UBS
in Singapore, said in a Sept. 28 interview.  “If you look at what happened in Asia over the last 20
years, there’s incredible wealth creation so this is probably
going to become a very, very important piece of segment,”
Grigioni said. “That’s why we have brought the wealth
management business and the investment bank closer.”  The number of ultra-rich Asians climbed 37 percent in 2009,
about double the global pace, according to Capgemini SA and
 Merrill Lynch Wealth Management , as the region led the global
economic recovery. UBS will add advisers in Asia to match the
growth of its richest customers, Grigioni said.  UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank, manages 300 billion Swiss
francs globally on behalf of the ultra rich. About a third of
its 1,000 client advisers in the Asia-Pacific region cater to
these clients, drawing on UBS’s investment banking resources.  480 Advisers  The bank, the world’s second-largest wealth manager in 2009
after  Bank of America Corp. , employs 480 client advisers
dedicated to its ultra-rich clients, according to Grigioni. They
each manage an average of $450 million and the bank is looking
to increase that figure to $500 million, he said.  Grigioni said the richest customers typically invest
globally and have a better understanding of economic and
investment opportunities than other investors. “It’s like the
BMW 300 and BMW 750,” he said. “It’s a different league.”  Advisers work with corporate finance teams on large asset
sales, mergers and acquisitions, and initial share offerings, as
well as issues like the transfer of wealth and businesses over
generations,  Daniel Harel , UBS’s head of private banking for
ultra-rich clients in South Asia, said in the same interview.  “You would need to have the economies of scale and
infrastructure in place, which is basically a big private bank
on one side and a big investment bank on the other side to be
able to make this business a viable one for both the client and
the bank,” said Harel, an investment banker for 17 years before
his appointment to his current role in September last year.  Rising Rich  The number of ultra high net worth individuals -- people
with at least $30 million of investible assets -- in Asia-
Pacific rose 37 percent to 19,600 last year, and their wealth
grew 43 percent, Capgemini and Merrill Lynch Wealth Management’s
report showed last week.  UBS appointed  Amy Lo  to run ultra high net worth business
in Asia-Pacific from Jan. 1, according to an internal memo
obtained by Bloomberg News today. Lo is currently regional
market manager and head of ultra high net worth in Hong Kong.
The region currently accounts for 30 percent of UBS’s managed
assets for the ultra-rich.  Serving the very wealthy isn’t without its perils,  Gerard Aquilina , vice chairman of Barclays Plc’s wealth management unit,
said last month. The richest clients often have “impossible”
requests, narrow margins and trigger internal conflict with
investment banking colleagues, he said.  Grigioni said these clients are extremely demanding,
needing extensive research and advice, with some expecting lower
prices. Margins across-the-board have dropped “dramatically”
in recent years as clients seek less leverage and more
conservative investments, he said, while adding that their
business remains important.  “You can’t be complacent, you can’t let it go,” Grigioni
said. “If you can provide solutions which are perceived by your
clients as value added, really something which is great, you can
ask the price for it and most of the people will pay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  