-- UBS, Credit Suisse May Lift Dividends After Capital Buildup, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2010-10-05T10:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/ubs-credit-suisse-may-boost-dividends-after-capital-buildup.html
UBS AG  and  Credit Suisse Group AG  may
boost dividends after accumulating enough capital to satisfy new
Swiss requirements, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, could pay out about 80
percent of earnings in dividends from 2013, while smaller rival
Credit Suisse could pay about 60 percent from 2014, analysts led
by  Kian Abouhossein  said in a note today.  “Swiss banks are now the only global banks with full
clarity and transparency in respect to Basel III equity,” the
analysts said. “With higher capital levels than those of global
peers and limited risk-weighted asset growth, we believe the
Swiss banks have to return higher capital to shareholders
through dividends.”  The  payouts  would be higher than the two banks’ average
dividend payments over the past decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average dividend payout ratio since
1999 for the years when the company made a profit distribution
was 41 percent for UBS and 39 percent for Credit Suisse, the
data show.  The two banks need to have a common equity buffer of 8.5
percent, on top of the 4.5 percent minimum ratio prescribed by
Basel III, a Swiss government-appointed panel said yesterday. Of
that buffer 3 percentage points can be made up of contingent
capital, the panel said, giving the companies until the end of
2018 to satisfy the requirements.  Prefer UBS  UBS and Credit Suisse may be able to reach common equity
ratios of about 13 percent in 2013 and 2014, respectively, and
could continue to increase capital after that even as they pay
the dividends, the JPMorgan analysts said. UBS, which hasn’t
paid a cash dividend for the past three years, will probably not
make any profit distribution until then, while Credit Suisse
could keep its payouts unchanged at 2 francs per share, they
said.  “They are becoming utilities with growth driven by asset
gathering, in particular private banking,” the analysts said.
They have an “overweight”  recommendation  on both companies,
giving preference to UBS because it can reach the necessary
capital levels earlier.  The two banks said yesterday that they expect to meet the
proposed capital requirements without having to sell new shares.
The panel’s plan still has to be endorsed by the government and
approved by parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  