-- TUI Travel Says Winter Bookings Accelerate, Annual Results to Meet Outlook
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-10-05T08:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/tui-travel-says-winter-bookings-accelerate-full-year-targets-will-be-met.html
TUI Travel Plc , Europe’s largest tour
operator, said bookings for this winter have strengthened in all
markets and full-year results will meet its forecasts.  Demand is particularly strong for winter-holiday packages
like Thomson Couples, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Long  said in
a statement today. The company continues to have a “prudent”
outlook for 2011, he said.  TUI Travel’s most recent forecast for the year ended Sept.
30, 2010 calls for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization of 441 million pounds ($698 million). The tour
operator will announce full-year results on Dec. 2.  The  shares  rose as much as 8.6 pence, or 4 percent, the
most since Sept. 1, and traded at 223.7 pence as of 9:28 a.m. in
London, giving the company a market value of 2.5 billion pounds.
TUI Travel has fallen 12 percent this year, compared with a 24
percent decline for competitor  Thomas Cook Group Plc.   Summer 2011 bookings have started well in the U.K. and the
Nordic countries, TUI Travel said. The company said its business
has benefited from a “flight to quality” after the failure of
smaller tour operators and airlines.  “Investors will need to be convinced about summer 2011
profitability before they’re willing to re-rate the shares,”
Peter Hyde, an analyst at Liberum Capital, said in a note today,
adding that there may be reports about Germany’s TUI AG buying
shares in TUI Travel that it doesn’t own. He maintained his
“buy” rating on TUI Travel after the statement.  TUI, majority owner of TUI Travel, has said that the sale
of its stake in the Hapag-Lloyd container line is a condition
for development of its tourism business.  Thomas Cook said last week that summer 2011 U.K. bookings
are up 9 percent, with average selling prices 4 percent higher,
while it said costs for leasing aircraft may place an additional
burden on the company’s profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  