-- Uncertain Regulatory Outlook Hinders Asset-Backed Bonds, Dan Castro Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-10-05T16:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/uncertain-regulatory-outlook-hinders-asset-backed-bonds-dan-castro-says.html
Dan Castro , head of structured
finance strategy at BTIG LLC in New York, spoke about the effect
of new regulations on securitization at Information Management
Network’s ABS East Conference in Miami.  On proposed regulation on restarting the market for mortgage-
backed securities:  “They are slowing it down. Some of the things being
proposed will make it hard for banks to issue. When you have
regulators and legislators who don’t know about the industry
coming up with rules and regulations, many of them trying to get
votes, there will be unintended consequences.”  On market volatility:  “The lame-duck session in Congress could create a lot of
volatility in the market. They will try to pass everything
possible as they know the shift in power is about to take
place.”  On new mortgage-backed  bonds  without government guarantees:  “The economics aren’t there right now for the banks. It
makes more sense for them to keep the loans on balance sheet.
The underwriting standards are significantly stronger than they
were. You will have very safe paper to buy once it starts coming
out.”  On low issuance of asset-backed securities:  “Investors are probably less selective. There is not
enough to choose from. The reality is money is moving to other
markets.”  On the lack of credit card-backed bond issuance:  “The banks have a lot of deposits. They don’t need to
securitize. Consumer debt is down. Credit lines are down. There
is a movement to debit cards. In a few years, there could be
more charges on debit than on credit cards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  