-- Under Armour Inc. Aims at US Basketball Market, Targeting Leader Nike Inc.
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-10-05T19:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/under-armour-targets-nike-in-u-s-basketball-market-opens-china-store.html
Under Armour Inc. , the U.S. maker of
workout gear, is targeting Nike Inc.’s leading position in the
American market for basketball sneakers, Chief Executive Officer
 Kevin Plank  said.  “Our vision is to be the No. 2 market player in the next
several years,”  Plank , a former University of Maryland football
player, said in an interview in London today.  Plank, 38, started Under Armour from his grandmother’s
basement in Washington, D.C. in 1996. The company’s apparel is
engineered to keep athletes cool and dry during their workouts.  Under Armour employs around 3,000 people and had annual
sales in 2009 of $856.1 million. The clothing business generated
76 percent of revenue, footwear accounting for another 16
percent and accessories making up the remainder, according to
the Baltimore, Maryland-based company’s annual report.  Under Armour  will introduce its first basketball shoe Oct.
23, Plank said.  Nike, the world’s largest athletic-shoe maker, is the No. 1
in the U.S. market for basketball shoes.  “We wouldn’t enter any category unless we could someday be
No. 1,” Plank said. “There is one company with three brands
that controls 90-plus percent of the basketball business. So
when you ask me, is basketball as a category, is it growing, is
it shrinking? I wouldn’t be able to tell you one way or another,
and frankly I don’t think it would matter. Because when Under
Armour does introduce basketball footwear, it is a relatively
good opportunity for us and we will take significant market
share.”  Under Armour will also be opening its first store in  China 
by the end of the year, Plank said. Under Armour will have 53
retail outlets in the U.S. by the end of the year, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  