-- Hungary Toxic Waste Spill Kills Four; Emergency Declared in Three Counties
-- B y   B a l a z s   P e n z   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-10-05T13:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/hungary-toxic-waste-spill-kills-four-hurts-100-as-sludge-reservoir-bursts.html
Hungary declared a state of emergency
in three counties after a  Magyar Aluminium Zrt.  toxic sludge
reservoir burst yesterday, killing four people, injuring more
than 100 and displacing 390.  More than 1 million cubic meters (35 million cubic feet) of
the sludge, a byproduct of alumina production, were released 
yesterday, flooding Devecser and two nearby villages, 160 
kilometers (100 miles) southwest of Budapest, state-run MTI news
service reported. The sludge contains heavy metals, including 
lead, the Interior Ministry’s emergency services department said.  “The disaster caused a grave situation,” the ministry
said today in an e-mailed statement. “The Cabinet and its
agencies have been in control of defense and reconstruction
since the burst occurred.”  Authorities have contained the spill, fortified the
reservoir and are working to clean up the affected area, said
Gyorgyi Tottos, a spokeswoman for the emergency services
department. Toxic material has spilled into the river Marcal,
where gypsum is being used to neutralize it, she said. The
Marcal is part of the Danube’s tributary system.  The sludge is a slightly radioactive, alkaline material
that has the consistency of sour cream, according to the
emergency services department. Skin contact causes burns, and
several people suffered eye damage, MTI said.  The state of emergency was declared in the northwestern
counties of Veszprem, Gyor-Moson-Sopron and Vas, which have a
combined population of about 1 million, the Interior Ministry
said. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will hold a news conference at
5 p.m. in Budapest after the Cabinet reviews its response.  No Signals  Magyar Aluminium, a closely held company, said a wall of
the reservoir slipped on its clay base, causing it to burst. The
material isn’t considered toxic under European Union rules, the
company said in a statement on its website. Magyar Aluminium
said it had no way of predicting the accident.  “The last physical review, on the same day, and the most
recent laboratory evaluation of a water sample from within the
reservoir didn’t show any sign of the disaster that occurred,”
the company said.  An area of 40 square kilometers (15.4 square miles) has
been threatened by the disaster, which  Zoltan Illes , a state
secretary for the environment, said was “unprecedented” in the
world, according to MTI. Hungary may have to spend more than 10
billion forint ($51 million) over several months on the
recovery, Illes said, according to the news website Index.  Hungary stores about 50 million tons of the red sludge,
with about 800,000 tons produced a year, MTI reported. The
production of 1 ton of aluminum yields about 3 tons of the
sludge, according to the emergency services department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Balazs Penz  in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 