-- Muni Bond Sales Reach 10-Month High as New York State Borrows $1.4 Billion
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-05T16:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/muni-bond-sales-reach-10-month-high-as-new-york-state-borrows-1-4-billion.html
New York state , the nation’s largest
municipal issuer after  California , sold $1.4 billion in taxable
and tax-exempt bonds as scheduled offerings of debt reached a
10-month high.  States and local governments are poised to borrow $13
billion this week, the most since the period ended  Dec. 11 ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That includes $1.3
billion being sold this week by New York City, the nation’s
third-largest issuer.  New York state is “putting the deal into the market when
there are a lot of new issues coming,” said  Anthony Shields ,
principal in the public-finance department at Williams Capital
Group in New York. The demand for the offering was “not a great
showing for a deal this big.”  The competition for buyers amid the glut of supply
yesterday forced the state to raise yields on its tax-exempt
offering after orders from individual investors were lower than
expected, said  Jeff Goldstein , senior vice president of
municipal trading at New York-based M.R. Beal & Co., senior
underwriter on the deal.  Yields on bonds maturing in February 2015 were raised 12
basis points from preliminary pricing, while 10-year rates were
increased 17 basis points, he said. A basis point is 0.01 of a
percentage point.  The 2015 bonds were priced to yield 1.57 percent, 40 basis
points above top-rated debt, according to a benchmark  five-year 
Bloomberg Valuation index. In March the authority sold $366
million in comparable debt priced to yield 1.78 percent, 27
basis points above the index.  Lower-Rated Sale  Yesterday’s sale, for which underwriters had weeks to
prepare before negotiating terms with state officials, have a
higher proposed yield than lower-rated, state-backed bonds sold
in a competitive sale Sept. 28. The Urban Development Corp.
offering was won by Citigroup Inc. after bids from eight banks,
which set a yield of 1.42 percent for bonds due January 2015, or
30 basis points above the BVAL index. The debt is backed by
annual appropriations and rated AA- by Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings.  The $610 million in tax-exempt debt, which is backed by
personal-income tax revenue, was sold through the New York State
Dormitory Authority, known as Dasny, to fund projects including
construction at the State University of New York and City
University of New York.  The state also issued through Dasny $595 million in
federally subsidized Build America Bonds and $149 million in
traditional taxables. So-called PIT bonds are top-rated by S&P,
and AA according to Fitch, two levels lower.  New York City, whose debt is rated third-highest by S&P,
Fitch and Moody’s Investors Service, tomorrow is selling $500
million in tax-exempts. The following day it will sell $800
million in taxables, including $650 million in Build Americas.  Yield Premium  The sales come as the extra yield investors demand for city
rather than state debt has  fallen to 4 basis points  as of
yesterday, from 45 basis points on Jan. 4, Bloomberg data show.  “New York City is getting a slight nod” from investors,
said  Alan Schankel , managing director of Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which oversees $13 billion in
fixed-income securities.  This week’s sales are the first of about $8.77 billion
scheduled this quarter by the state, city and their authorities,
according to a compilation by the Securities Coordinating
Committee, headed by state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli . Sales in
the three months ended Sept. 30 totaled $4.95 billion, Bloomberg
data show.  Next Sale  During the remainder of this month, the New York City
Transitional Finance Authority, which helps raise funds for
capital projects, plans to sell $750 million of personal income
tax-backed bonds and the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey, the 89-year-old bridge and tunnel operator, may issue
$850 million for a building on the site of the World Trade
Center destroyed in the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.  The city and its water authority plan $1.25 billion of tax-
exempt or Build America Bond sales before the end of the year,
while the city’s Transitional Finance Authority has scheduled
$350 million.  New York state  plans to sell $1.3 billion of
personal income tax-backed bonds in the week of Nov. 29 through
Empire State Development Corp.  Susan Barnett, spokeswoman for Dasny, didn’t respond to e-
mails seeking comment.  The state’s personal-income tax revenue is projected to
rise 6.2 percent to almost $37 billion in fiscal 2011 after
declining 5.7 percent the previous year, Fitch analysts Laura
Porter and  Douglas Offerman  wrote in a Sept. 29 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at +1= 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 