-- Univision Loan Used to Finance 2007 LBO Said to Rise on Televisa News
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2010-10-05T19:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/univision-loan-used-to-finance-2007-lbo-said-to-rise-on-televisa-news.html
Univision Communications Inc.  will
speak with lenders tomorrow after  Grupo Televisa SA  agreed to
invest $1.2 billion in the Spanish-language media company,
according to people familiar with the talks.  Deutsche Bank AG is holding the call, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. No
reason was given for the call, the people said.  A loan used to finance Univision’s 2007 leveraged buyout
rose more than four cents today following the announcement that
Mexico City-based Televisa will buy as much as 35 percent of the
broadcaster to expand in the U.S. The term loan was trading at
about 93.25 cents on the dollar, the people said, up from 89.25
cents late yesterday in New York, the people said. The loan is
$7.45 billion, Chief Financial Officer  Andrew Hobson  said on a
May 6 conference call.  The term loan backed the LBO of the company by Madison
Dearborn Partners LLC, Providence Equity Partners LLC, Saban
Capital Group Inc., Thomas H. Lee Partners and TPG Capital.  Credit-default swaps protecting against losses on New York-
based Univision’s debt plunged to the lowest since December
2007. The five-year contracts dropped 224 basis points to 627
basis points, according to London-based data provider CMA.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt. The index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates.  Stephanie Pillersdorf , a spokeswoman for Univision,
declined to comment on the debt training.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Haunss  in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  