-- Kremlin Media Assault on Luzhkov Succeeds as 66% Back Moscow Mayor Firing
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-10-06T08:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/luzhkov-ouster-gets-surprise-support-from-66-of-russians-in-opinion-poll.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s firing of
Moscow Mayor  Yury Luzhkov  was supported by 66 percent of
Russians, demonstrating the success of a media campaign waged
against the man who ran the city for 18 years, a poll showed.  Medvedev cited a “loss of confidence” as his reason for
firing Luzhkov on Sept. 28 after programs on state-controlled
television accused the mayor of corruption and favoritism toward
his wife, billionaire developer  Yelena Baturina .  Thirteen percent of respondents disapproved of the
president’s decision and 21 percent were undecided, according to
the survey conducted Oct. 2-3 by the All-Russian Center for the
Study of Public Opinion, or  VTsIOM . The poll of 1,600 people had
a margin of error of 3.4 percentage points.  “This poll shows that people agree with what they’ve been
shown on television, because they see authority as corrupted,”
Valery Fedorov, general director of VTsIOM, said by telephone.
“It shows approval for the president, but disapproval for the
authorities in general, especially local ones. The paradox in
Russia is that people tend to have more trust for those in power
who are less close to them.”  ‘Very Good Result’  The pollster said he didn’t expect two-thirds of Russians
to support the president’s move. “For Medvedev, it is a very
good result,” Fedorov said. “The survey shows that people in
Russia like their leader to be strong.”  Sixty-five percent of respondents in the poll said Moscow
needs a new mayor, while 13 percent said Luzhkov should have
remained in city hall.  Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said yesterday that a
quarter of the orders issued by Luzhkov during his tenure as
mayor were signed in secret and never published “in violation
of current law.” The orders concerned access to resources,
distribution of contracts and privileges, Kudrin said.  Sergei Tsoi, Luzhkov’s spokesman, didn’t answer calls to
his mobile phone seeking comment.  Luzhkov’s former deputy, Alexander Ryabinin, was charged
yesterday with bribe-taking, the Investigative Committee of the
Prosecutor General’s Office said on its  website .  Ryabinin has denied the accusations against him and said he
was a “cog” in a campaign against Luzhkov, the state-run RIA
Novosti news service reported on Sept. 13.  Twenty-four probes into Moscow officials have been opened
since the creation of the Investigative Committee, spokesman
 Vladimir Markin  said on Sept. 29.  Luzhkov was named dean of the large-city management
department at Moscow’s International University, according to a
statement on the school’s  website . The university is headed by
 Gavriil Popov , Luzhkov’s predecessor as mayor of Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  