-- Bank Yields Sink to Low as VTB Purchase Spurs Consolidation: Russia Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-10-05T21:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/vimpelcom-record-low-yields-show-bondholders-supporting-m-a-russia-credit.html
Russian bank debt is beating
sovereign and non-financial bonds by the most since before the
credit crisis as  VTB Group’s  purchase of  OAO TransCreditBank  and
International Industrial Bank’s failure spur consolidation.  Yields on TransCredit dollar notes due in 2011 were at 3.56
percent yesterday, four basis points from the lowest since their
sale in 2008 after VTB said it plans to buy control. Gains in
Alfa Bank’s 2013 dollar bonds cut the extra yield over OAO
Gazprom, Russia’s biggest company, to 173 basis points, the
lowest since their 2008 sale, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Russia lags behind Brazil, India and China for bank
mergers, with $174 million spent on takeovers in 2010 versus $16
billion in China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said yesterday Russia may revoke
licenses in “coming days” from the weakest lenders as the
government sets tougher capital requirements. Bonds rose even as
IIB became the biggest bank to collapse in at last two years.  “The consolidation story will revolve more around smaller
banks that will have to either grow somehow or be taken over or
closed down,” said  Dmitry Dudkin , a fixed-income analyst at
UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow. Kudrin’s comments “suggest
that in the future the central bank may shift to consolidation
and restructuring in order to make the banking system
stronger,” he said.  The number of Russian lenders shrank to 1,036 from 1,126
two years ago, central bank data show. The number will halve to
500, Kudrin said in a November conference in Moscow last year.  VTB Purchase  VTB, the country’s second-largest lender, plans to buy a
controlling stake of TransCredit from Russian Railways and
minority shareholders by the end of the year and will pay no
more than 2.2 times TransCredit’s adjusted tier-one capital as
of the end of 2010, according to the statement from VTB
yesterday. The Moscow-based bank had initially considered buying
a 20 percent stake, an official at the bank who declined to be
identified because the negotiations were confidential said in
July.  The yield on VTB’s 2012 dollar bonds fell 16 basis points,
or 0.16 percentage point, to 3.73 percent, a record low.
Standard & Poor’s raised VTB’s rating yesterday to “stable”
from “negative,” saying problem loans had peaked and liquidity
had improved. TransCredit shares advanced 3.1 percent in Moscow
yesterday to 19.47 rubles. VTB climbed 2.9 percent to its
highest in four months.  ‘High-Risk’  Russia’s central bank revoked the license yesterday of ZAO
International Industrial Bank, the lender controlled by lawmaker
 Sergei Pugachyov,  three months after it defaulted on foreign
currency bonds. “The credit institution followed a high-risk
credit policy and didn’t create adequate provisions for possible
loan losses,” Bank Rossii said in an e-mailed statement.  IIB’s collapse won’t have any “spill-over” to other
banks,  Maxim Raskosnov , a banking analyst at VTB Capital, said
in an emailed report yesterday. Dmitry Morochenko, a Moscow
spokesman for IIB, didn’t answer his mobile phone when Bloomberg
News called yesterday.  The last time a Russian bank defaulted on international
bonds was the year after the government’s 1998 debt crisis that
triggered the collapse of Long Term-Capital Management LP. SBS
Agro Bank, once Russia’s largest private bank, defaulted on $250
million in July 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Financial Support  President  Dmitry Medvedev  averted defaults by banks and
companies during the credit crisis by pledging more than $200
billion in support as the collapse of New York-based Lehman 
Brothers Holdings Inc. caused a global freeze in debt markets in
2008. The central bank cut its benchmark refinancing rate 14
times since April 2009 to 7.75 percent to help boost lending.  China has led the way this year in financial company
mergers. TPG Capital’s Asia unit sold the remainder of its stake
in Ping An Insurance (Group), China’s second-biggest insurer, on
Sept. 2 for HK$9.1bn ($1.2 billion). Allianz AG of Munich,
Europe’s biggest insurer, said it earned 500 million euros ($641
million) in May by cutting its stake in Beijing-based Industrial
& Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s largest lender.
India had four deals worth $855 million and Brazil had eight
deals worth $1.92, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The rally in bank bonds lowered the yield on Moscow-based
Nomos Bank’s 8.75 percent notes due 2015 to 435 basis points
above similar-maturity sovereign bonds, from 485 when they were
sold in April and 560 in June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The yield difference between Russian Standard Bank dollar bonds
due in May 2011 and  OAO Sberbank  dollar notes due November 2011
narrowed to 339 basis points, the lowest since July 2007, the
data show.  ‘Opportunity’  State-owned VTB’s purchase of TransCredit isn’t a signal
that the government is pushing to consolidate the banking
industry, said  Rustam Botashev , deputy head of research at
UniCredit Spa in Moscow.  “These are individual cases driven by need and
opportunity,” Botashev said in a phone interview from Moscow.
“TransCreditBank needed capital to grow and VTB wanted to
expand its network and loan book.”  Consolidation may be a negative for competition within the
banking industry as the biggest 30 banks could gain more market
share, said  Richard Hainsworth , head of RusRating, an
independent bank-rating company in Moscow.  “The top 30 banks control about 70 percent of business and
a shrinking of the market may lead to market leaders winning
even more business,” Hainsworth said in a phone interview.  Ruble Gains  The ruble gained 1.2 percent to 30.0900 per dollar
yesterday, its strongest level since Aug. 10. Non-deliverable
forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of
currency movements and interest rate differentials and allow
companies to hedge against currency movements, show the ruble at
30.2400 per dollar in three months.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell 11
basis points to 4.375 percent, the lowest level since they were
sold in April. The country’s ruble notes due August 2016 rose,
pushing the yield 10 basis points lower to 7.18 percent.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was little changed at 157
on Oct. 4, according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost the same as contracts for Turkey, which is rated four
levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis
points less on April 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 7 basis points to 224,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares
with 153 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 204 for Brazil,
which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 47 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Sberbank, the country’s largest lender, is seeking to buy a
one third stake of Troika Dialog, the country’s oldest
investment bank, for $500 million, RBC Daily reported on October
1, citing people it didn’t identify.  MDM Bank, Russia’s second-largest lender, completed its
merger with Ursa Bank in August in a deal that created the
second-largest private bank in Russia. Otkritie Financial Corp.,
the brokerage 20 percent owned by VTB, said in July it is
seeking to raise as much as $375 million in an initial public
offering to fund further acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  