-- Kerviel, Visa, Galleon, Citigroup in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-05T14:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/visa-galleon-deutsche-bank-citigroup-airgas-in-court-news.html
Jerome Kerviel was sentenced to three
years in prison and ordered to repay  Societe Generale SA ’s 4.9
billion-euro ($6.8 billion) trading loss by a judge who said the
former trader’s actions threatened the bank’s existence.  “By his deliberate actions, he put in peril the existence
of the bank that employed 140,000 people, of which he was a
part, and whose future was threatened,” Judge Dominique Pauthe
said today in finding Kerviel guilty of breach of trust, forging
documents and computer hacking.  The trading loss, announced Jan. 24, 2008, was the biggest
ever and prompted then-chief executive officer Daniel Bouton to
describe Kerviel as a “terrorist.” The court placed the blame
for the loss on Kerviel alone, rejecting defense arguments
during a three-week trial in June that his superiors knew of his
actions and that the bank’s decision to unwind the bets over
three days of falling markets caused the loss.  The 4.9 billion-euro award “is obviously symbolic,”
Christopher Mesnooh, a Paris-based lawyer with Field Fisher
Waterhouse LLP, said in a telephone interview. “It goes a very
long way in exonerating the bank and putting responsibility for
the losses, including the winding down of the positions by
Societe Generale, entirely in Jerome’s court.”  “No one has any expectation that he’ll pay,” said
Mesnooh, who isn’t involved in the Kerviel case.  Olivier Metzner, Kerviel’s lawyer, said he would appeal the
ruling, and that Kerviel would “obviously not” be able to
repay the loss. Dressed in a dark suit, Kerviel, 33, sat in
court following the decision reading on his iPhone. He will
remain free during the appeal.  The former trader is “revolted that those that created him
put all responsibility on him,” Metzner said, noting Kerviel
wouldn’t comment directly. “Prison is unacceptable for a man
who didn’t make a penny.”  Pauthe said problems with Societe Generale’s computer
controls and management’s encouragement of traders to speculate
wasn’t enough to absolve Kerviel.  “The lack of vigilance by the bank in monitoring the only
existing limits, acting as alert signs, hardly exempted Jerome
Kerviel from his duty to inform his hierarchy of the reality of
his excesses or to come back to the limits imposed,” Pauthe
said in reading excerpts of the decision.  Jean Veil, the lawyer representing Societe Generale, said
he was satisfied by the guilty verdict and award, which the
Paris-based bank had requested at trial.  The award “confirms what Societe Generale has always told
its shareholders and employees,” Veil said.  For more, click here.  MasterCard, Visa Settle as Amex Fights U.S. Lawsuit  Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc.  reached a settlement with the
U.S. Justice Department to resolve a two-year antitrust
investigation over restrictions on merchants.  The settlement was filed in federal court in Brooklyn, New
York, yesterday as the Justice Department filed charges against
Visa, MasterCard and  American Express Co.   Yesterday’s settlement means that about 4 million merchants
across the U.S. that accept just Visa and MasterCard are now
free to steer customers to different credit cards or forms of
payment by offering discounts, rebates or other special
treatment, the Justice Department said. Six million more
retailers who also accept cards from American Express are still
subject to restrictions until the lawsuit is resolved, the
Justice Department said.  “We want to put money in consumers’ pockets,” said
Attorney General Eric Holder at a press conference. “By
eliminating credit-card companies’ anticompetitive rules, we
will accomplish that.”  American Express spokesman Michael O’Neill said his company
would fight the charges. “We do not intend to settle,” he
said.  The U.S. probe focused on rules that bar merchants from
charging extra to customers who use credit cards and steering
them to competing cards, and that require retailers to accept
every type of card banks issue.  For more, click here.  Merck Verdict Cut to $1.5 Million From $8 Million  A federal judge cut a jury award against  Merck & Co.  in a
lawsuit over its  Fosamax  osteoporosis drug to $1.5 million from
$8 million while upholding the verdict in the case.  U.S. District Judge John F. Keenan in Manhattan yesterday
denied Merck’s request for a defense verdict or a new trial. The
case resulted in a verdict for Shirley Boles, a 72-year-old Fort
Walton Beach, Florida, woman who claimed she developed
osteonecrosis of the jaw, or so-called jaw death, from taking
Fosamax.  Keenan ruled that the $8 million verdict was unreasonably
high. He said Boles may choose between a reduced award of $1.5
million or a retrial to determine damages.  “A significant damage award is warranted, but the $8
million deviates substantially from what would be reasonable
compensation,” Keenan wrote.  Merck said it will appeal Keenan’s refusal to throw out the
verdict entirely or to order a new trial.  “Both the finding and the amount of compensatory damages
are against the weight of the evidence,” Bruce N. Kuhlik,
Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck’s general counsel,
said in a statement. “The evidence showed that Fosamax did not
cause the plaintiff’s injury and that it is a safe and effective
medication that was properly designed.”  The case is Boles v. Merck & Co., 06-cv-09455, and the
lawsuits are combined in In Re Fosamax Products Liability
Litigation, MDL 1789, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Rajaratnam Asks Court to Find U.S. Wiretaps Illegal  Galleon Group co-founder Raj Rajaratnam is seeking to show
that U.S. agents illegally wiretapped his communications and
that the recordings can’t be used in his criminal insider-
trading trial.  At a hearing yesterday in federal court in Manhattan,
Rajaratnam tried to convince U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell
that the government misled a different judge into authorizing
the wiretaps in March 2008. As a result, the wiretaps, the
centerpiece of the biggest insider-trading prosecution in
history, must be thrown out, he claims.  “They gamed the system,” John Dowd, a lawyer for
Rajaratnam, said.  Rajaratnam, 53, is accused of using tips from company
executives, hedge-fund employees and others in a multimillion-
dollar insider-trading scheme. He’s the central figure in an
investigation in which 21 were charged. Rajaratnam, who denies
wrongdoing, faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  Dowd argued that U.S. investigators hid from Gerard Lynch,
the federal judge who issued the wiretap warrant, the fact that
the Securities and Exchange Commission had already assembled the
elements of “a classic insider-trading case” against
Rajaratnam and others.  Prosecutors said the government secretly recorded about
2,400 conversations between Rajaratnam and more than 130
friends, business associates and alleged accomplices. The
evidence against him will include testimony from some of the
people caught on the wiretaps, the government said. The U.S.
said it’s the first insider-trading prosecution to use wiretap
evidence.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Swiss Re Wins Dismissal of Credit Default Swaps Suit  Swiss Reinsurance Co.  the world’s second-biggest reinsurer,
won dismissal of an investor suit in which it was accused of
failing to disclose risk that led to a 1.2 billion franc ($1.1
billion) derivative loss over credit-default swaps.  U.S. District Judge John Koeltl in New York yesterday
dismissed the suit on grounds including a June ruling by the
U.S. Supreme Court that limits the reach of civil claims for
acts occurring outside the country. Koeltl said the plaintiffs
also failed to supply sufficient details of their fraud claims.  Swiss Re “made false and misleading statements about the
company’s financial condition,” the shareholders claimed in the
2008 lawsuit.  “The plaintiffs have failed to allege with particularity
that the defendants made any material misstatements or omissions
with respect to the CDSs it had insured or that the defendants
had any obligation to provide further disclosure with respect to
the CDSs it had issued,” Koeltl said.  The lead plaintiff, Plumbers Union Local No. 12 Pension
Fund, sued on behalf of a proposed class of purchasers of Swiss
Re’s common shares from March 1, 2007, to Nov. 19, 2007.  The complaint described statements that the defendants made
about Swiss Re’s involvement with mortgage-related securities,
with the subprime mortgage market, Swiss Re’s management
practices and the value of its earnings and accounts.  Koeltl cited the Supreme Court ruling in Morrison v.
National Australia Bank issued in June that limits the reach of
civil claims for acts occurring outside the U.S. He said that
ruling disagreed with the plaintiffs’ argument “that a purchase
occurs when and where an investor places a buy order.”  Neither a lawyer for the plaintiffs nor a spokeswoman for
Swiss Re could be reached yesterday for comment.  The case is Plumbers’ Union Local No.12 v. Swiss
Reinsurance Co., 1:08-cv-1958, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The  Supreme Court case  is
Morrison v. National Australia Bank Ltd, 08-1191, U.S. Supreme
Court (Washington).  Deutsche Bank Wins Order for Singapore End to Indonesia Dispute  Deutsche Bank AG won a court order that a company
controlled by two of Indonesia’s richest men must end legal
attempts outside Singapore to regain pledged shares that
Germany’s biggest bank sold.  Beckkett Pte, controlled by Sukanto Tanoto and Hashim
Djojohadikusumo, can’t pursue duplicate proceedings after six
years in the Singapore courts, Singapore High Court Judge Judith
Prakash said in  SGHC 284&notShowClose=y] a ruling  made public yesterday.  The ruling was made on an appeal by Deutsche Bank, which
had asked Beckkett to withdraw a separate Indonesian lawsuit
from 2008, and challenged a February decision by Singapore’s
assistant registrar not to order the Indonesian proceedings to
be halted. Singapore’s Court of Appeal last year ruled that the
bank didn’t take proper steps to sell the shares in companies
including coal miner PT Adaro Indonesia at the best price.  Beckkett, which had pledged the shares as collateral for a
1997 loan to its unit PT Asminco Baru Utama, was entitled to
have any losses determined. The Court of Appeal also allowed
Deutsche Bank to make a counterclaim for an outstanding loan.  “Beckkett had no business starting the Indonesian action
in the first place,” Judge Prakash wrote. “There was no excuse
for it to attempt to bypass a possibly unfavorable decision of
the Singapore courts by taking action in Indonesia.”  Laurel Teo, a Singapore-based spokeswoman for Beckkett,
declined to comment, as did Michael West, a Hong Kong-based
spokesman at Deutsche Bank.  The case is Beckkett Pte Ltd. v. Deutsche Bank AG and Anor,
S326/2004, Singapore High Court.  Tyco Wins Bid to Exclude Some Evidence Against Walsh  Tyco International Ltd . won a bid to exclude some evidence
in a lawsuit that centers on ex-director Frank E. Walsh Jr.’s
$20 million “finder’s fee” related to the purchase of CIT
Group Inc.  Walsh had asked U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in New York
to bar Tyco from putting attorneys’ fees into evidence at trial.
Tyco persuaded Cote that the fees were evidence of damages
sustained by the company and that Walsh’s conduct triggered an
internal investigation by the law firm of Boies, Schiller &
Flexner LLP, which was hired to investigate the payment.  “Tyco has shown that the evidence is properly admitted at
trial,” Cote said.  In a separate ruling, Cote denied a bid by Tyco to exclude
the testimony of an expert witness Walsh wants at a trial about
Bermuda law. Walsh said he relied upon the advice in connection
with his receipt of the $20 million from Tyco.  Walsh, who was “lead director” and a member of the
corporate governance committee, hid the payment from the board
and later refused to return it, Tyco alleges in a suit filed in
New York in 2002. Tyco alleges seven causes of action, including
that Walsh breached his fiduciary duty when he accepted the
payment. He denies allegations of any wrongdoing.  Mark Levine, a lawyer for Tyco, declined comment. Michele
Pahmer, a lawyer for Walsh, didn’t return a voice-mail message
left at her office seeking comment.  The case is Tyco International Ltd. v. Frank Walsh Jr. 02-
CV-46233, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Goldman Sachs Sued Over German Bank’s $37 Million Loss on CDO  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , which served as the placement
agent for a collateralized debt obligation named Davis Square
Funding VI, was sued by Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg over its
$37 million loss on the investment.  The CDO held 95 percent residential mortgage-backed
securities, of which 33 percent were subprime and 46 percent
were “midprime,” the German bank said in a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan. TCW Group Inc., the
investment adviser on the CDO, was also sued by the bank.  When Goldman sold the investments to a Luxembourg affiliate
of LBBW in March 2006, they were represented as “safe, secure,
and nearly risk free,” according to the complaint. At the same
time, Goldman senior executives privately observed that “it was
game over” for subprime lenders and were reducing their
exposure to the mortgages, LBBW said.  “Goldman knew at the highest levels of its organization
that its representations to LBBW Luxemburg that the notes
merited triple-A ratings and were high grade were blatantly
false,” the Stuttgart-based bank said. “Goldman committed
fraud and, or, was negligent in marketing and selling the notes
to LBBW Luxemburg.”  “TCW has acted appropriately in managing Davis Square VI
and any allegation to the contrary is without merit,” the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  Michael DuVally, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, said yesterday that the company had no immediate comment.  The case is Landesbank Baden-Wurttemberg v. Goldman Sachs,
10-7549, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan.)  Citigroup, Ally Accused of Racketeering With Mortgage Database  Citigroup Inc.  and  Ally Financial Inc.  units were sued by
homeowners in Kentucky who allege they conspired with Mortgage
Electronic Registration Systems Inc. to falsely foreclose on
mortgages.  The lawsuit, filed as a civil racketeering class action on
behalf all Kentucky homeowners facing foreclosure, also names as
a defendant Reston, Virginia-based MERS, the company that
handles mortgage transfers among member banks. The suit claims
that through MERS the banks are foreclosing on homes even when
they don’t hold titles to the properties.  “Defendants have filed foreclosures throughout the State
of Kentucky and the United States of America knowing that they
were not the ‘owners’ or beneficiaries of the loan they filed
foreclosure upon,” the home owners wrote in their complaint
filed Sept. 28 in federal court in Louisville, Kentucky.  The lawsuit is one of multiple cases against MERS and banks
alleging that the process allows wrongful foreclosures. Several
of these cases, combined in a multidistrict litigation in
Phoenix were dismissed Sept. 30, with the judge allowing the
plaintiffs to re-file their complaints.  “The allegation is inflammatory and without merit and we
intend to defend our position fully in a court of law,” Gina
Proia, a spokeswoman for Ally, said in an e-mailed statement.  Mark Rodgers, a spokesman for Citigroup, declined to
comment. Karmela Lejarde, a spokeswoman for MERS, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  The case is Foster v. Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc., 10-cv-611, U.S. District Court, Western District
of Kentucky (Louisville).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Air Products Executive Says Airgas Bid ‘Attractive’  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. ’s $5.5 billion bid for  Airgas
Inc.  is an “attractive offer,” an Air Products executive
testified as the producer of industrial gases presses its rival
to consider a sale.  At $65.50 a share, Air Products would be paying “full
price,” Chief Financial Officer Paul Huck told a Delaware
Chancery Court judge yesterday.  Air Products , based in
Allentown, Pennsylvania, sued Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Airgas
on Feb. 4 to force consideration of the bid.  “A number of long-time Airgas holders found it to be a
very attractive offer,” Huck testified in Georgetown, Delaware.
The courtroom earlier was closed to the public during part of
Huck’s testimony about Airgas’s value.  As part of the case, Airgas is asking Chancery Court Judge
William B. Chandler III to invalidate a bylaw approved by
shareholders in a Sept. 15 vote that added three Air Products
nominees to the Airgas  board . The bylaw would move Airgas’s
annual meeting to January from as early as April.  Airgas contends that moving up the annual meeting will
unfairly allow Air Products to try to knock more Airgas nominees
off the board and take control. Chandler has agreed to hear both
issues in the trial.  The cases are Air Products & Chemicals Inc. v. Airgas Inc.,
5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington); and Airgas Inc. v.
Air Products & Chemicals Inc., 5817, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Halliburton Investors Draw Top U.S. Court Inquiry in Fraud Case  The  U.S. Supreme Court  signaled interest in an appeal from
shareholders trying to sue  Halliburton Co.  for securities fraud,
seeking the Obama administration’s advice on the case.  The appeal potentially would make it easier for investors
to press class-action suits in some states. A federal appeals
court in New Orleans said the Halliburton shareholders couldn’t
sue as a group because they hadn’t established that they lost
money as a result of the alleged fraud.  The Halliburton shareholders’ lawyer, David Boies, argued
in his appeal that the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals had
established a “virtually unattainable standard.”  The shareholders, led by the Erica P. John Fund, contend
that Halliburton from 1999 to 2001 falsified earnings reports,
played down estimated asbestos liability and overstated the
benefits of a merger. The company was led during part of that
period by Dick Cheney, later the U.S. vice president.  The high court appeal concerns the standard that applies at
the so-called class certification stage, not at final judgment.
The Supreme Court ruled in 2005 that to recover damages
shareholders ultimately must show a direct connection between a
misrepresentation and a decline in stock prices.  Boies’s appeal contends that shareholders shouldn’t have to
make that showing at the class certification stage, when they
haven’t yet had a chance to marshal their evidence.  The case is Erica P. John Fund v. Halliburton, 09-1403,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  U.K. Lawsuits Against FTSE 100 Companies Rise 16%, Survey Says  U.K. lawsuits against the country’s 100 biggest companies
increased 16 percent in a year, suggesting an “inevitable
flood” of litigation from the financial crisis hasn’t peaked, a
legal publisher said.  Cases against FTSE 100-listed companies in the High Court
in London rose to 179 from 154 in the year ended June 30, the
publisher  Sweet & Maxwell  said Oct. 3 in a statement.  Combined lawsuits against  HSBC Holdings Plc ,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  and  Barclays Plc 
fell 6 percent, and comprised 43 percent of the FTSE 100 cases,
 Sweet & Maxwell  said. Financial services companies make up 18
percent of the FTSE 100, Sweet & Maxwell said.  “Banks are likely to feature frequently in hard-fought
litigation by virtue of the huge volume of complex financial
transactions that they are involved with,” said Sweet &
Maxwell, a subsidiary of Thomson Reuters Corp.  Lawsuits against FTSE 100 companies weren’t the only ones
to increase. Cases to shield corporate secrets more than
 quadrupled  in London last year and trademark cases rose 20
percent, the U.K.  Ministry of Justice  said last month.  Abu Ghraib Contractor Suit Draws U.S. Supreme Court Interest  The  U.S. Supreme Court  signaled it may consider whether two
military contractors can be sued for allegedly abusing inmates
at Iraq’s Abu Ghraib prison in a case that could make companies
more vulnerable to human rights suits.  The justices yesterday asked the Obama administration for
advice on an appeal from 26 Abu Ghraib inmates seeking to sue
 CACI International Inc.,  which helped interrogate prisoners at
the facility, and Titan Corp., which provided translation
services. Titan has since been renamed and is now part of  L-3
Communications Holdings Inc.   The appeal asks the court to decide whether companies and
other private parties can be sued under a federal law that
authorizes some suits against foreign governments for human
rights abuses. The inmates also want the justices to consider
whether contractors are immune from state-law suits stemming
from activities that take place on the battlefield.  The inmates, who were civilian detainees, say they were
subjected to abuses by CACI and Titan employees including
beatings, sexual humiliation, exposure to extreme temperatures
and rape. In court papers, the inmates say some prisoners were
tortured into unconsciousness and several were murdered.  Two groups of inmates are seeking to sue under the 1789
U.S. Alien Tort Statute and District of Columbia law.  The case is Saleh v. CACI International, 09-1313, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Accused Tax Cheat Cohen Denies Owning New York Hotel  Hotel developer Leon Cohen Levy, accused by U.S.
prosecutors of hiding a $33 million hotel sale from the Internal
Revenue Service, testified that he never cheated on his taxes or
made more than $40,000 a year.  Cohen, 46, is charged with his father, Mauricio Cohen
Assor, 77, with conspiring to defraud the IRS and filing false
tax returns that hid income and more than $150 million in
assets. Prosecutors say the men, who built hotels in Europe
under the “ Flatotel ” brand, failed to declare their sale of a
New York hotel in 2000 that they owned in the names of friends,
relatives and employees.  Leon Cohen said he never owned the Flatotel and never made
more than $40,000 a year working for its owners. He said that he
never paid taxes for his use of a Miami Beach house that
prosecutors say was once worth $26 million. Cohen said he used
the house for business and never paid taxes for the benefit of
its use or of luxury cars he drove.  “Why would I pay taxes?” Cohen told jurors in federal
court in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. “I was a professional person
working in a professional residence. That’s where I slept. I was
just doing my job.”  Cohen, like his father, who testified Sept. 30, said he
believed an accountant had prepared his taxes properly.  “I thought that all the returns and documents that had to
be filed had been filed, absolutely,” he said, testifying in
French through an interpreter.  Prosecutors said the Cohens put $33 million in proceeds
from the New York Flatotel sale in a Swiss account of  HSBC
Holdings Plc , Europe’s largest bank by market value, and failed
to tell the IRS.  The case is U.S. v. Assor, 10-cr-60159, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Court News  Kagan Full of Questions in Her First U.S. Supreme Court Hearing  Elena Kagan wasted no time joining the conversation in her
first hearing as a  U.S. Supreme Court  justice.  Kagan, who will take part in only four of the 12 cases
during the court’s first two-week argument session, asked
questions of all three lawyers during the one-hour hearing in a
bankruptcy case that marked the opening of the court’s nine-
month term.  Kagan has recused herself from 24 of the court’s 51
scheduled cases because she played a role in the litigation
while serving as U.S. solicitor general, the government’s top
courtroom advocate.  Yesterday’s hearing focused on whether people seeking
bankruptcy protection can limit the amount they must pay to
creditors by claiming an auto expense deduction for a car that
has already been paid off.  “What would happen if the debtor had a car that was
200,000 miles old and it was going to break down, you know,
within the next five years?” Kagan asked Deanne Maynard, the
attorney representing  Bank of America Corp.  in the case.  Both Maynard and Nicole Saharsky, the federal government
lawyer in the case, worked under Kagan in the solicitor’s
office.  Kagan sat at the far end of the bench, in the spot assigned
to the most-junior justice on the court. She made eye contact
with each speaker and at one point whispered to Justice Samuel
Alito, who was seated to her right. Several of her questions
built off comments and queries from the other justices.  The case is Ransom v. FIA Card Services, 09-907,U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 