-- Volkswagen May Add Production of Mid-Sized Sedan in China
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-10-07T09:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/volkswagen-may-expand-its-production-of-mid-sized-sedan-from-u-s-to-china.html
(Corrects to say numbers are targets for production, not
sales, in ninth paragraph of story published Oct. 6.)  Volkswagen AG  may expand production
of a mid-sized sedan designed for U.S. customers to China in a
bid to win buyers in the world’s biggest auto market.  The model, which will be priced at about $20,000, will be
built to begin with at VW’s new plant in Chattanooga, Tennessee,
and sold in the U.S. in the second half of 2011.  “We will see demand for this car growing in other
countries such as China,” said  Ulrich Hackenberg , head of
Volkswagen’s brand development, in an interview. “Our
production pattern allows us to transfer vehicles from one plant
to another at relatively low effort.”  VW, aiming to surpass  Toyota Motor Corp.  in sales and
profitability, is relying on China to meet a goal of increasing
global deliveries to 10 million by 2018. It announced the
addition of two Chinese factories this year to double production
in VW’s biggest market to 3 million cars within four years.  VW preferred shares gained as much as 2.28 euros, or 2.7
percent, to 86.25 euros and were up 2.23 euros as of 10:46 a.m.
in Frankfurt trading. The stock has advanced 32 percent this
year, valuing the carmaker at 37.4 billion euros ($52 billion).  Europe’s largest carmaker plans to invest 6 billion euros
in China for the expansion and add new models. Eight-month VW
sales in China expanded 41 percent to 1.29 million vehicles.  China’s auto market may grow 52 percent to annual sales of
19.2 million vehicles in the next eight years, Hackenberg said
yesterday in Wolfsburg, Germany, where VW is based.  ‘Goldmine’  “China is VW’s undisputed No. 1 priority,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Bankhaus Metzler who
recommends selling VW stock. “A third of VW group profits stem
from China and its weight is likely to increase rather than
decrease. China continues to be a goldmine that VW can’t afford
to let go.”  Volkswagen has a goal to produce 67,000 units of the new
midsize sedan in Chattanooga next year and increase that level
to 150,000 per year from 2012, according to a slide presentation
by Silke Lerche, VW’s group quality director.  “The U.S. market offers great opportunities,”  Jonathan Browning , VW’s new U.S. chief, said during his first public
appearance in Europe since taking over the new job at VW. “It’s
all part of our global expansion strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Wolfsburg, Germany via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 