-- Volvo Cars COO Steven Armstrong Leaving to Join Ford
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-10-05T11:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/volvo-cars-coo-steven-armstrong-said-to-leave-company-join-ford.html
Steven Armstrong , chief operating
officer of Volvo Cars, will leave the Swedish automaker to join
former employer  Ford Motor Co.  as part of a management reshuffle
under new Chief Executive Officer  Stefan Jacoby .  Armstrong, 46, will return to Cologne, Germany-based Ford
of Europe, Volvo said an e-mailed statement today. Volvo also
named  Freeman Shen  as head of its Chinese operations. Shen was
adviser to  Li Shufu , chairman of  Zhejiang Geely Holding Group
Co. , which bought Volvo from Ford last month.  “We’re going through a very important and turbulent period
for Volvo Cars,” Jacoby said in the statement. “To quicken the
decision process while making sound decisions it’s important to
broaden the company management.”  Jacoby wants to double Volvo’s global sales to 800,000 cars
in 10 years, he said last week. China, where Volvo aims to build
local production plants, has the biggest growth opportunity,
while the Gothenburg-based carmaker also needs a long-term U.S.
strategy, he said at the Paris Motor Show.  Volvo sold 334,808 cars worldwide last year, a decline of
11 percent from 2008 and 27 percent from a peak of about 460,000
in 2007, according to the company.  Volvo said its restructuring includes making the heads of
product development, production, purchasing and quality report
directly to Jacoby instead of to a chief operating officer, a
position the carmaker has eliminated.  ‘Near Premium’  The new management must “broaden the product range and
appeal to a wider audience to improve their market share and
volume,”  Jonathan Poskitt , an analyst at J.D. Power &
Associates in Oxford, England, said in a phone interview.  Volvo has suffered from being a “near-premium brand,” a
market that has been squeezed in recent years by expanding
premium makers as well as volume manufacturers, Poskitt said.  Armstrong joined Volvo in 2001 as senior vice president of
purchasing. He’s been COO since 2006. Before Volvo, he was vice
president of purchasing at Auto Alliance International, a joint
venture between Ford and  Mazda Motor Corp .  “I’ll be working on a couple projects they got going in
Europe in the near term,” Armstrong said in a telephone
interview, adding that he will be working with Ford of Europe’s
new head  Stephen Odell  and Chief Financial Officer  Stuart Rowley .  Before joining Geely last year, Shen headed Fiat Powertrain
Technologies in China from 2007, Volvo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  