-- Wilmington Trust Said to Seek Capital From Private-Equity Firms
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/wilmington-trust-said-to-seek-capital-infusion-from-private-equity-firms.html
Wilmington Trust Corp. , the Delaware
bank founded by the du Pont family, is seeking a capital
infusion from private-equity firms, said four people with
knowledge of the matter.  Wilmington Trust may try to sell itself if it can’t raise
more capital, said two of the people, who spoke on the condition
of anonymity because the plans are private. The bank has had
five straight quarterly  losses  and the shares  dropped  more than
70 percent in the last three years, leaving it with a market
capitalization of about $799 million.  A capital infusion would be the second this year for the
biggest Delaware-based bank, which raised $274 million in a
March share sale after losses on commercial real estate loans
and on investments in pools of trust-preferred securities issued
by other financial institutions. The bank cut its quarterly
 dividend  to one penny last year, and Chief Executive Officer  Ted Cecala  retired in June after 14 years at the helm.  William Benintende , a spokesman for Wilmington Trust, had
no immediate comment.  The bank said in an August regulatory filing that despite a
$116 million net loss in the second quarter, “our capital
position remained strong at June 30,” with a risk-based capital
ratio of 16.65 percent, compared with the 10 percent minimum
required by the U.S. Federal Reserve to be considered “well
capitalized.”  Wilmington’s Advisers  Wilmington Trust is getting advice on its options from
Lazard Ltd. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., said the people familiar
with the matter.  Tasha Pelio , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said she
couldn’t comment, and a spokeswoman for Lazard didn’t return a
call.  The U.S. Treasury, through its Troubled Assets Relief
Program, bought $330 million in preferred equity in the company
in December 2008.  Based in the city of the same name, Wilmington Trust had
$10.7 billion of assets and $8 billion of deposits as of June
30, according to data from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
The bank’s wealth management unit, focusing on customers across
the U.S. with $10 million or more of liquid assets, managed $25
billion as of June 30.  T. Coleman du Pont, then president of E.I. du Pont Nemours
& Co., founded the bank in 1903. It’s now widely held.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 