-- Wong Defeats Race-Sex Prejudice as Minister Set to End Deficit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-10-05T21:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/wong-defeats-race-sex-prejudice-as-australia-minister-set-to-erase-deficit.html
Australia’s finance minister may need
to reprise the toughness she showed in overcoming racial abuse
and gaining control of a university political club to succeed in
her new role.  Penny Wong  is now charged with meeting Australia’s goal of
becoming the first major developed nation to return its
government budget to surplus. At stake: sustaining investor
confidence in a country that avoided a recession during the
global crisis and now seeks to end its deficits by fiscal 2013.
Wong’s main mission is holding the line on cabinet colleagues’
budget requests to maintain a 2 percent cap on spending growth.  “She will have no problems saying no” to funding
requests, said George Karzis, whom Wong ousted in 1989 as head
of the Labor Club at the  University of Adelaide , South
Australia, and now works at law firm Norman Waterhouse in
Adelaide. He said the two had embarked on a “campaign of
enthusiastic recruitment” of new members to help gain control
of the club, with Wong emerging the victor.  Australia’s economic growth, accompanied by the lowest
debt-to-gross-domestic-product ratio among advanced economies,
has helped make its dollar the second-best performing major
currency this year,  climbing  about 8 percent against its U.S.
counterpart.  The economy, which is now in its 20th year of expansion,
surged  1.2 percent  last quarter, the fastest pace since 2007 as
growth spread from the mining industry to households.  Smaller Deficit  Wong started her job last month with one advantage: The
deficit has so far turned out to be smaller than the government
had anticipated. The shortfall was A$54.8 billion ($53.2
billion) in the fiscal year that ended June 30, compared with a
forecast in May this year of A$57.1 billion.  “The key is to ensure we get the budget back into surplus
and ensure the strict spending rules,” Wong, 41, said in a
telephone interview on Sept. 28. “We have to deliver fiscal
consolidation and that will require enormous discipline.”  Wong was born in  Kota Kinabalu  in Sabah, Malaysia, to a
Cantonese father and an Australian mother. Her parents met at
the University of Adelaide when her father traveled to South
Australia on a scholarship in the 1960s and returned to Malaysia
together. When they separated, Wong moved to Australia at age
eight with her mother and brother.  Wong’s brother died 10 days after her election to
parliament in 2001. In her  maiden speech  the following year, she
made reference to his passing, saying, “Your life and death
ensure that I shall never forget what it is like for those who
are truly marginalized.”  Migrant Difficulties  Wong alluded in her speech to the difficulties migrants
faced when she arrived 25 years earlier.  “It was a hard time to leave a familiar place and come to
somewhere where you and your family were seen as so different,”
she told lawmakers. “Racial abuse was not unusual. It used to
lead me to wonder, ‘How long do you have to be here and how much
do you have to love this country before you are accepted?’”  Australia’s discriminatory immigration program, known as
the  White Australia policy , was completely dismantled in 1973.
As late as 1988,  John Howard , who went on to become Australia’s
second-longest serving prime minister, called for reduced Asian
immigration for the sake of “social cohesion.”  Wong wasn’t deterred. She won a scholarship to  Scotch
College  in Adelaide, where Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  also
hails from, and later became a captain of the school, the most
prestigious position for a student. Di Hill, deputy principal at
the time, recalls that some other students viewed the young Wong
as “different” and she got “some teasing” as a result.  ‘Intellectually Smart’  “Penny always said what she thought, in a way she probably
wouldn’t now as a politician,” said Hill, whose husband,
 Robert , was a cabinet minister under Howard and who says she
encouraged Wong to enter school politics, a process that ended
with her being elected president of the student representative
council by a record majority. “Sometimes that could aggravate
people. She’s incredibly clever. Intellectually smart.”  Wong planned to become a doctor after graduation, winning a
spot in medical school before deferring to go overseas. She
returned to the University of Adelaide a year later and studied
arts and law.  “I did a gap year and did some work in hospitals in Brazil
and decided medicine wasn’t for me,” she said in the interview.
“Not liking the sight of blood was one of many reasons.”  Wong worked part-time as an organizer for the  Construction,
Forestry, Mining and Energy Union  through the concluding stages
of her law degree, while still managing to graduate with honors.  Legal Officer  She was a barrister and solicitor at an Adelaide firm for
three years and then spent three years as a legal officer at the
 Liquor, Hospitality and Miscellaneous Workers Union  in South
Australia before being selected as a Labor candidate for the
Senate.  Wong served as the party’s spokeswoman during Labor’s 2007
election campaign and became Australia’s first ethnic Asian
cabinet minister when then-Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  appointed
her to the climate-change portfolio after he led the party into
government.  As climate-change minister, she drafted legislation
proposing that Australia, the world’s biggest  coal  exporter and
 driest inhabited continent , reduce greenhouse-gas emissions in
the next decade by between 5 percent and 15 percent from 2000
levels. The Senate defeated the bill in December after a revolt
in the opposition Liberal party led to a leadership change, and
it turned against the plan.  Shrug Off Failure  While the defeat helped to bring down Rudd, Wong was able
to shrug off the failure and continue her political ascent,
partly because of the perception that Rudd’s poor judgment
contributed to the bill’s collapse, said  Haydon Manning , an
associate professor in the Department of Politics and Public
Policy at  Flinders University  in Adelaide.  “I’ve always thought she’s been harshly judged, given it
was a very complex piece of legislation,” Manning said in an
interview. “Rudd should have helped her sell it; instead, he
left her to face the pressure.”  Wong’s promotion to finance minister in Gillard’s
government now places her among the country’s top officials. The
post is akin to the head of the White House Office of Management
and Budget in the U.S., with Treasurer  Wayne Swan  occupying the
equivalent of Treasury secretary.  Her ascendance is a rarity: Australia has a dearth of
Asian-born representatives, even as the group’s share of the
population climbed to 8.5 percent of country’s 22 million people
in 2009 from 5.3 percent in 1999, according to  Australian Bureau
of Statistics data .  Public Servant  A member of the Uniting Church, Wong is also Australia’s
first openly lesbian Cabinet member. She lives in Adelaide with
her partner of three years, Sophie Allouache, a public servant
who, like Wong, went to Scotch College. Allouache attended both
of Wong’s swearing-in ceremonies.  Wong will have to display “a reckless degree of
toughness” in her new role,  Nick Minchin , finance minister from
2001 to 2007 in Howard’s government, said in a Sept. 29
interview.  As finance minister, “you have to be able to stand up to
your colleagues and say no and be able to make the case,” said
Minchin, who oversaw the sale of the final 35 percent stake in
Melbourne-based  Telstra Corp. , Australia’s largest telephone
company and is also from South Australia. “In a minority
government like this, there are going to be enormous demands for
what can only be described as pork barreling: inappropriate and
irresponsible spending.”  ‘Real Risks’  There are “real risks and she has a tough job ahead of
her,” he added.  Wong replaced former Finance Minister  Lindsay Tanner , who
quit politics to work at  Lazard Ltd. , an investment bank. Tanner
was credited with helping lead Australia’s response to the
credit crisis, pressing to get stimulus into the economy
quickly.  “Tanner was very well respected in the market,” said
 Stephen Halmarick , who helps manage about $135 billion as head
of investment markets research at Colonial First State Global
Asset Management in Sydney. While Wong’s appointment came as a
surprise to some investors, “she is obviously someone who is
very smart and can master her brief and will bring a new
dimension to the role.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  