-- Euro Strengthens After PMI Data Suggests Economic Recovery
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-05T10:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/yen-weakens-versus-dollar-euro-after-boj-unexpectedly-cuts-interest-rates.html
The euro rose as economic data showed
European services growth improved last month, underpinning
speculation that economic recovery in the euro area is gaining
traction.  The euro strengthened against all its 16 most actively
traded peers after data showed the purchasing managers’ index
for euro-region services rose to 54.1 in September from an
initial reading of 53.6. Separate reports showed better-than-
expected outcomes in both Germany and Italy. The single currency
strengthened even as Moody’s Investors Service said it may
downgrade Ireland. The yen pared an earlier decline against the
dollar.  “The PMI data helped give the euro a bid,” said  Neil Mellor , a currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp.
in London. “The market concentrates on the strong data, which
justify the current underlying positive sentiment for the
euro.”  The euro jumped 0.7 percent to $1.3779 at 6:44 a.m. in New
York. The yen fell to 114.89 per euro from 114.08. The yen was
little changed at 83.42 per dollar from 83.36 in New York
yesterday. It weakened to 83.99 yen per dollar earlier today as
the Bank of Japan cut its key interest rate and said it would
step up asset purchases to spur the economy. The BOJ said it
would create a 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) fund to buy
government bonds and other assets.  “We’ve seen some modest yen selling since the announcement
by the BOJ,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “It’s still a relatively
cautious monetary easing.”  Irish Outlook  Australia’s dollar slumped after its central bank left
interest rates unchanged, a decision forecast by six of 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Australian dollar slipped 0.9 percent to 95.95 U.S.
cents and weakened 0.8 percent to 80.05 yen.  Moody’s said Ireland’s Aa2 rating will “most likely” be
cut one notch if a downgrade goes ahead in the wake of the
government’s 50 billion-euro ($69 billion) pledge to save the
country’s banks. The ratings company, which last lowered Ireland
in July, will finish a review within three months.  “The euro seems to benefit from the perception that it’s
one of the only hard currencies around, rather than reflecting
any material improvement in underlying fundamentals for the euro
zone,” Hardman said.  The Bank of Japan lowered its benchmark rate to a range of
zero percent to 0.1 percent from the previous 0.1 percent
target, it said after its two-day meeting today. The move,
called “comprehensive monetary easing” by Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his colleagues, follows a slump in the outlook for
growth in the BOJ’s quarterly Tankan survey last week.  Japan ‘Fragile’  “The Japanese economy is becoming fragile and warrants
drastic monetary-easing measures by the central bank,”  Seiji Shiraishi , chief economist at HSBC Securities, who predicted a
rate cut at today’s meeting, said before the BOJ announcement.  The central bank kept its credit program for banks at 30
trillion yen, and its target for monthly purchases of government
bonds at 1.8 trillion yen.  The Japanese currency also declined on prospects that the
government may act to weaken the yen again to protect the
nation’s export-led recovery.  “The Bank of Japan could intervene at any time,” said
 Joseph Capurso , a foreign-exchange strategist at Commonwealth
Bank of Australia in Sydney. “The end of the meeting may be the
catalyst for them to resume intervention.”  Australian Rates  Japan intervened to weaken the yen and help exporters last
month for the first time since 2004, joining countries across
Asia and Latin America that have tried to temper gains in their
currencies. Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  warned Sept.
27 of a “currency war” and said his government will buy all
“excess dollars” in the market to limit the real’s
appreciation.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in Tokyo
today that he’s prepared to explain the reasons for intervention
to his Group of Seven counterparts.  Australia’s dollar tumbled after the central bank left its
benchmark rate at 4.5 percent for a fifth month amid signs the
bank’s previous increases are cooling domestic demand and the
nation’s housing market.  “We have had no new information since the last meeting and
it’s clear the Reserve Bank of Australia wants to wait for
additional information,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in
Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
interdealer broker. “The Aussie has dropped a lot.”  Korean Audit  Speculation intensified in recent weeks that the RBA would
boost borrowing costs before the end of the year, helping fuel
an 8.6 percent surge in Australia’s currency last month and
pushing it toward parity with its U.S. counterpart.  South Korea’s won snapped its longest winning streak in
eight weeks after the government announced plans to audit banks’
foreign-exchange trading.  The Bank of Korea and the Financial Supervisory Service
will conduct an audit between Oct. 19 and Nov. 5 on currency
swaps and options to check if banks are complying with measures
announced on June 13, according to an e-mailed statement from
the Ministry of Strategy and Finance today.  Domestic lenders in June were ordered to reduce holdings of
the derivatives over the next two years to 50 percent of equity
capital and branches of foreign banks in South Korea to 250
percent starting Oct. 9. They were instructed not to raise
holdings beyond a July 9 deadline.  “We think the gains in the won were a bit fast,”  Doh Boe Un , an official at the financial regulator who is involved in
the audit, said in an interview in Seoul today. “We want to see
the market stabilize and the measures are expected to curb
volatility,” Doh said.  South Korea’s won slid 0.7 percent to 1,130.58 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  