-- Yield Forecasts Tumble as Carney Rate Increase Pushed Back: Canada Credit
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2010-10-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/yield-forecasts-tumble-as-carney-rate-increase-pushed-back-canada-credit.html
Economists cut their forecasts for
Canadian bond yields for a third month, predicting slower
 inflation  and a more gradual pace of central-bank lending rate
increases than they did a month ago, a Bloomberg survey showed.  The federal government’s 10-year bond will yield 3 percent
at the end of the year, according to the median of 14 estimates
gathered by Bloomberg News, down from 3.35 percent in the
previous monthly survey. The Bank of Canada will raise its
benchmark rate from today’s 1 percent in the second quarter of
next year instead of by year-end, the survey found.  “We expect Canadian bond yields to decline a bit further
in the coming six months and then turning once the Bank of
Canada resumes tightening,” said  Sal Guatieri , senior economist
with Bank of Montreal’s capital markets unit in Toronto. Bond
yields remain “very low at this stage of the cycle almost two
years after the recovery began.”  The Bank of Canada raised its benchmark rate to 1 percent
on Sept. 8, its third straight move. Last week, Governor  Mark Carney  said further increases “would need to be carefully
considered” given risks of a renewed U.S. slowdown and cooling
consumer spending in Canada.  The forecasts for Canada’s 10-year bond at the end of this
year ranged from 2.7 percent to 3.4 percent. The survey also
pared the prediction for the two-year bond at the end of this
year to 1.6 percent from 2 percent, according to the median
estimate, with predictions from 1.4 percent to 2 percent.  Growth Forecasts Cut  Economists also slashed their forecast for growth in third-
quarter  gross domestic product , by 1 percentage point to an
annualized pace of 2.1 percent. The year-over-year inflation
rate will be 1.9 percent this quarter, the survey found, less
than the previous median of 2.1 percent. The Bank of Canada sets
interest rates to keep inflation at 2 percent.  “The Bank of Canada will move on to the sidelines as they
assess if this weakening,” growth and inflation will continue,
said  Paul Ferley , assistant chief economist at Royal Bank of
Canada in Toronto.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Bank of Canada Senior Deputy
Governor Tiff Macklem speaks in Montreal at 1 p.m. today on
“Reflections on Monetary Policy After the Great Recession.”  Canada will auction C$3 billion of 10-year notes tomorrow,
according to a statement on the Bank of Canada’s website. The
3.25 percent securities mature in June 2021.  Bonds due in 10 years sold by Canada yield about 26 basis
points more than Treasuries. As recently as April, Treasuries
yielded as much as 39 basis points more than Canada bonds.  Corporate Spreads  Spreads on corporate debt were unchanged at 145 basis
points yesterday from Oct. 1. Yields fell to 3.64 percent from
3.68 percent Oct. 1. The securities have returned 7.54 percent
this year, compared with 11.3 percent in the U.S. and 9.05
percent globally.  In the provincial bond market, relative yields were
unchanged at 58 basis points yesterday from Oct. 1, the Merrill
Lynch data show.  Bonds in the index have returned 7.85 percent this year,
compared with 3.71 percent in all of last year.  The 10-year bond’s yield next year won’t return to where it
was before Canada’s last recession began, the survey found.
Canada’s economy began shrinking on a quarterly basis in the
January-March period of 2008 and has been growing since July-
September of last year.  The 10-year  yield  will rise to 3.7 percent by the end of
2011 from 2.75 percent yesterday, less than the 4.02 percent
yield before Canada’s last recession began, the survey found.  Flatter Yield Curve  Canada’s economy shrank for the first time in 11 months in
July, Statistics Canada reported Sept. 30, as retailers,
manufacturers and builders posted declines.  The difference between Canada’s 2-year and 10-year bond
yields -- the so-called yield curve -- has shrunk by more than
any other Group of Seven country over the past year, Bloomberg
data show, suggesting investors expect the slowdown to continue.  Economists in a separate Bloomberg survey are forecasting a
slowing in the rate of increase in Canadian business and
government spending in September, with the  Ivey  purchasing
managers index expected to decline to 62 from 65.9. The data
will be published Oct. 6. Canada’s employment report for
September is due Oct. 8, and economists forecast the pace of  job
growth  to slow to 10,000 from 35,800 in August.  The following are excerpts of Bloomberg’s monthly survey of
economists on the Canadian economy:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilan Kolet  in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 