-- Brazilian Real Rises to 2-Year High as Tax Overshadowed by Japan Rate Cut
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-10-05T14:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/yields-on-brazilian-futures-rise-most-in-a-week-on-foreign-investment-tax.html
Brazil’s currency surged to its
strongest level in more than two years as Japan’s interest rate
cut overwhelmed efforts by President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva
to weaken the currency by taxing foreign purchases of bonds.  The real climbed to 1.6775 against the dollar, the
strongest since Sept. 3, 2008, and was up 0.7 percent at 1.6863
as of 10:19 a.m. in New York. Yields on Brazilian futures
contracts rose the most in a week.  Brazil doubled the tax yesterday on foreign investment to 4
percent in fixed-income securities to stem the currency’s two-
year rally and help shore up exports. The move coincided with
the Bank of Japan’s reduction of the overnight call rate target
to a range of zero to 0.1 percent, the lowest since 2006, and
said it would set up a fund to buy bonds. Brazil’s benchmark
interest rate, at 10.75 percent, is the second-highest among the
Group of 20 nations after Argentina’s and is luring demand for
local-currency debt.  “The IOF tax isn’t enough to contain the flows coming from
the liquidity injection by the Japanese central bank and global
dollar weakening,” said  Luis Otavio Souza Leal , chief economist
with Banco ABC Brasil SA in Sao Paulo.  The yield on the contract due in January 2017 rose 6 basis
points to 11.65 percent while the January 2021 yield gained 8
basis points on the BM&FBovespa.  “Foreigners invest mainly in the long end of the curve,
hence the bigger impact there,” said  Felipe Brandao , an
emerging markets analyst with ICAP Brasil SA, the second-largest
interest-rate futures broker on the BM&F.  ‘No Surprise’  The Brazilian decision to raise taxes reflects concern
across emerging markets as central bank dollar purchases fail to
stem gains in local currencies prompted by inflows into the
highest-yielding assets from South Korea to South Africa and
Colombia. The real gained 28 percent since October 2008.  The tax failed to affect the real today because the market
anticipated the government would take such a measure, said  Luiz Eduardo Portella , a partner at Banco Modal SA in Rio de Janeiro.  “It wasn’t a surprise -- the surprise was the timing,”
said Portella. “The trend won’t change, though it will be
smoother. With interest rates maybe rising next year, all of
Brazil’s growth, everything will continue attracting capital.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josué Leonel in São Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  