-- Zais Japan, Led by Ex-Lehman Banker, Plans Japanese Real-Estate Debt Fund
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-05T01:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/zais-japan-led-by-ex-lehman-banker-plans-japanese-real-estate-debt-fundz.html
Zais Group LLC , a U.S. asset
management firm with $8.6 billion in assets, plans to raise as
much as 10 billion yen ($120 million) for a fund that will
invest in Japanese property-related securities including debt.  Zais Japan Ltd., the local unit of the New Jersey-based
asset manager, aims to raise 5 billion yen to 10 billion yen
over the next year for the fund, said  Takahiro Tazaki , senior
strategist at the Tokyo firm, which was established in 2008. The
fund will invest in senior-class debt in Japan as early as April,
targeting the nation’s pension funds, he said.  The Japan unit, led by President  Katsuhito Manabe , a former
managing director at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in Tokyo, is
expecting an increase in sales of property-related debt as the
nation’s banks rush to bolster their balance sheets ahead of
regulatory changes. The fund plans to invest in high-grade debt
owned by Japanese banks trying to avoid refinancing risks as the
values of properties tied to the bonds decline, Tazaki said.  “We have yet to find decent investments that have
attractive yields right now in senior-class debt, but we’re
expecting major banks to start selling them by the piece,”
Tazaki, 42, said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “We’re now
talking to potential investors targeting pension funds for fund-
raising.”  Zais Japan has an edge because there aren’t many funds
investing in property-related debt, Tazaki said. The firm
expects global banking rule changes will hasten lenders’ efforts
to offload property-related debt, he said.  Basel Requirement  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  last month said
it will require lenders worldwide to have common equity equal to
at least 7 percent of assets to prevent a repeat of the global
financial crisis. The capital requirement includes a 2.5 percent
buffer to withstand future stress. Banks are currently required
to have common equity equal to 2 percent of total assets.  The number of commercial mortgage-backed securities that
are due will peak this year at 1.23 trillion yen, according to
an estimate by Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Ltd. in Tokyo.  Japan’s nationwide commercial land prices fell 4.6 percent
last year and residential land values dropped 3.4 percent, a
government report showed last month. Commercial prices are 60
percent of what they were in 1991 when they peaked, while
residential values are at 35 percent.  Zais’s fund aims for a 3 percent to 5 percent return
annually and will mainly target Japanese pension funds, which
are seeking returns of about 3 percent, Tazaki said.  “We don’t feel that the momentum is rapidly changing in
Japan’s property market just yet,” said Tazaki. “For a real
recovery, we need to see a pickup in corporate earnings to see
rents go up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 