-- Zambian Securities Regulator Orders Bharti to Undertake Valuation of Zain
-- B y   O b e r t   S i m w a n z a
-- 2010-10-05T15:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-05/zambian-securities-regulator-orders-bharti-to-undertake-valuation-of-zain.html
Zambia ’s Securities and Exchange
Commission ordered  Bharti Airtel Ltd.  to carry out an
independent valuation of its Zain Zambia Ltd. unit, after local
media said the regulator rejected Bharti’s offer to minorities.  The aim of the valuation exercise is to “afford fair
treatment to all shareholders on the pricing of the offer,”
commission Chairman Munakupya Hantuba said in a statement today
in Lusaka, the capital.  “Non-controlling shareholders shall obtain at least the
equivalent of the price paid per share as derived from that
obtained in the acquisition of control,” Hantuba said.  Bharti, India’s biggest wireless operator, in June
completed a $9 billion acquisition of Zain’s assets in 15
African countries. The company already owns 78.9 percent of Zain
Zambia. The Post, a Lusaka-based newspaper, reported on Sept. 25
that the SEC rejected Bharti’s bid to buy the remaining shares
in Zain Zambia that trade on the Lusaka Stock Exchange at 710
kwacha (15 cents) per share. The article cited SEC officials it
didn’t identify.  Senjam Raj Sekhar , a spokesman for Bharti, said he couldn’t
immediately comment when contacted today on his mobile phone. He
didn’t immediately respond to a list of e-mailed questions sent
by Bloomberg.  “The SEC has been at pains to point out that the purpose of
the directive is to ensure fair treatment to all shareholders in
the pricing of the offer,”  Randolph Oosthuizen , head of research
at African Alliance Securities, said in an e-mail today from
Johannesburg.  Zain Zambia, previously known as Celtel Zambia Plc, said in
August trading in its share had been suspended pending
clarification of the terms of the mandatory offer by Bharti.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Obert Simwanza  in Lusaka via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 