-- China Automakers see tough road to global market
-- By  Kirby Chien
-- Sun Dec 10, 2006 2:23am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/10/businesspro-autos-china-exports-dc-idUSPEK6666120061210

 

 BEIJING  (Reuters) - China has created a vibrant auto 
industry over the past two decades, but executives said on 
Sunday that a significant gap still separated local 
manufacturers from the world's top brands. 

  "If we want to become a global automotive giant, there is 
still a long road to travel," Yin Jiaxu, chairman of China 
Southern Auto Holdings Corp, told a conference on Sunday.  China Southern Auto owns 52.5 percent of Changan Automobile 
Co. Ltd. ( 000625.SZ ), Ford Motor Co.'s ( F.N ) partner in China.  Foreign car makers are eager to increase their share of 
China's auto market, which grew 21 percent in 2005, amid 
slowing growth in more mature North American and European 
markets.  The fast growth, however, has spurred rapid expansion by 
the local ventures of the likes of General Motors Corp. ( GM.N ) 
and Volkswagen AG ( VOWG.DE ), leading to severe price 
competition and plans to increase exports and fatten profit 
margins.  Last month, Brilliance Automotive ( 1114.HK ) ( CBA.N ), BMW's 
( BMWG.DE ) China partner, became the latest with overseas 
ambitions when it announced plans to export 25,000 of its 
sedans to Europe next year.  Brilliance has an export target of 158,000 within five 
years, while Changan Auto also has plans to produce 250,000 
cars in the year 2010.  But like the Koreans and Japanese before them, the price 
advantage enjoyed by Chinese exporters is offset by poor 
quality, outdated designs and the lack of any brand 
recognition.  "For Chinese consumers there is still a huge gap between 
foreign brands and local brands ," said Frank Zhao, the vice 
president of Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. ( 0175.HK ).  "But without some leadership or guidance, it will be 
difficult," said Zhao, referring to the critical role of the 
government in nurturing the industry.  Last month, China said it aims to lift automotive exports 
to $120 billion, or 10 percent of the world's total vehicle 
trading volume, in the next 10 years, official media quoted the 
Ministry of Commerce as saying.  Last year, such exports reached $10.9 billion, an increase 
of 34 percent over 2004.  The mainland is the world's second largest automotive 
market and one that is expanding quickly as double-digit 
economic growth bolsters consumption.  China last year became a net vehicle exporter for the first 
time, exporting 172,800 vehicles mostly to Africa, Southeast 
Asia and the Middle East, where pricing is a decisive factor.  Other manufacturers are looking to gain export experience 
by building cars with foreign partners.  Chery Automotive Co. is in talks with DaimlerChrysler 
DCXGn.DE to make subcompact cars in the mainland targeting 
markets including the U.S. and Europe.  Despite the obstacles, executives were upbeat the industry 
was on the right track and that eventually they would succeed.  "Just because the goal is distant doesn't mean it's not 
reachable," said Southern Auto's Yin.  (US$=7.83 yuan)