-- Think tax-backward to avoid the AMT
-- By  Linda Stern
-- Sun Dec 10, 2006 11:04am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/10/businesspro-column-finance-dc-idUSN15253920061210

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Taxpayers, walk away from the gift 
wrap and pick up your pencils. You have less than a month to 
strategize your way out of the alternative minimum tax for 
2006. 

  The AMT has become a universally unpopular symbol of policy 
gone awry. Initiated in 1969 as a way to catch high-income 
Americans who were dodging all income taxes, it has morphed 
into an almost-incomprehensible parallel tax system that 
disproportionately affects middle-income taxpayers who have 
many kids or live in high-tax states.  Because its brackets are not automatically indexed for 
inflation (unlike the regular income structure, which is), it 
catches more taxpayers every year as their incomes rise to AMT 
levels.  "This year it will affect 3.6 million taxpayers, at an 
average of about $6,000 per return," says Lonnie Davis, 
director of tax services for CBIZ Accounting, Tax & Advisory 
Services in Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania.  It's tough to understand, but ignore it at your own peril. 
Every year the AMT snags more taxpayers, and if it snags you, 
the very actions you take to cut your taxes (such as making 
extra mortgage payments in mid-December) could come back to 
bite you.  Here's what you need to know -- and do -- right now:  -- Get a basic idea of how the AMT works.  In most simple terms, it applies a lower tax rate to a 
broader definition of income. It defines income more broadly by 
disallowing some write-offs, such as state and local taxes 
deducted, some home equity interest, some medical expenses and 
some profits on employee stock options.  It also disallows personal exemptions, hitting big families 
hard. (For a complete list of the so-called "preference" items 
disallowed by the AMT, go to the IRS Web site and download Form 
6251 and its instructions.) Then it subtracts a special AMT 
exemption amount, and then it subjects the income left to tax 
rates of 26% on the first $175,000 ($87,500 for married couples 
filing separately) and 28% on the excess.  -- Drill down and guesstimate whether you're going to be 
subject to the AMT.  Look at last year's return and see if you paid any AMT. 
Even if your situation is pretty similar this year, you may not 
be subject to it because of two changes made in the tax bill 
passed earlier this year.  That bill slightly increased the AMT exemption that gets 
subtracted from your income. The same law eased up on AMT 
treatment of a variety of credits including the child and 
dependent care credit and Hope scholarship and lifetime 
learning credits.  A quick and dirty way to see if you'll be hit by the AMT is 
this: Find out what your marginal tax rate is, and subtract the 
AMT rate. If, for example, you're married filing jointly with 
an income of $150,000, your regular marginal tax rate is 28 
percent and your AMT rate is 26 percent, making the spread 
between the two taxes only 2 percent of your income. If your 
list of preference items, personal exemptions and the like 
exceed 2 percent of your income, there's a good chance you'll 
be AMT bait.  If you use tax-preparation software, you can open last 
year's forms, guesstimate your income and deductions, raise the 
AMT exemption amount on form 6251 to 2006 levels of $62,550 
(married joint), $42,500 (single) or $31,275 (married filing 
separately.) See if it calculates an AMT payment for you.  -- Then what?  If you expect to be AMT'd, think backward, says Davis. Put 
off that year-end home equity or tax payment until January. 
Defer your miscellaneous expenses, like investment interest or 
job-hunting expenses. Bring extra income, such as bonuses, into 
this year. Your mission is to keep preference items a 
low-enough proportion of your taxes to kick you out of AMT 
contention, at least for one more year.  -- Watch Washington.  Both Democrats and Republicans say they want to "fix" the 
AMT problem, but they'll have their own problems doing that. 
They're not supposed to cut taxes in the future (as any AMT fix 
would do) without finding like income elsewhere, and there's 
not many other places for legislators to go to fund that.  It's more likely that the best they will do is continue to 
adjust it annually. That buys them continued attention from 
tax-focused lobbyists, and it buys them higher revenues that 
they can count in the out-years, even if they're just going to 
adjust them away too.  That means if you're just falling under AMT radar, you 
might continue to escape it, one year at a time.  (Linda Stern is a freelance writer. Any opinions in the 
column  are solely those of Ms. Stern. You can e-mail her at  lindastern@aol.com.)