-- How to keep more of what you make
-- By  Linda Stern
-- Sun Dec 10, 2006 11:04am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/10/businesspro-column-investing-dc-idUSN1418398020061210

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - If you've heard it once, you've 
heard it a thousand times: The most important aspect of 
investment planning is asset allocation, or deciding how much 
of your portfolio to invest in stocks and how much in bonds. 

  But here's another chestnut that often gets left out: It's 
not what you make, it's what you keep. Taxes matter -- a lot -- 
and folks who plan their portfolios without adjusting for them 
will end up with less cash than they think.  That's the conclusion of a study published in a recent 
issue of the Financial Analysts Journal by William 
Reichenstein, a financial analyst and investment management 
professor at Baylor University in Waco, Texas.  "Financial managers who use the traditional approach to 
calculate individuals' asset allocations are miscalculating 
their true allocations," he writes. "The ... errors can be 
substantial."  Reichenstein argues for calculating investments on an 
after-tax basis when weighing how much of a portfolio they take 
up. And tax treatments of investments should be considered when 
divvying up those assets into taxable, tax-deferred, and 
tax-free portfolios.  To make sure that you're keeping more of what you're 
making, first understand that different investments have 
different tax treatments.  Profits on stocks held for less than a year are considered 
regular income, as are money market interest, real estate gains 
and bond dividends. Their tax rates can top 30 percent.  But for stocks held longer than a year, the rate goes down 
to 15 percent or less. Dividends on shares held at least 60 
days around the time of the payout are also taxed at a 15 
percent top rate.  Got all that? Good. Now learn the tax treatment of 
different accounts.  Money made on investments held in individual retirement 
accounts, 401(k)s and the like is tax-deferred. That means you 
won't have to pay taxes on capital gains from your IRA now, but 
years later, when you start cashing it out, you'll pay income 
taxes on your withdrawal. Earnings on investments held in a 
health care savings account or Roth IRA may never be taxed at 
all.  Now put it together by putting the right assets in the 
right accounts.  Those investments that potentially carry the highest taxes 
-- bonds, bank CDs and real estate mutual funds -- should go 
into tax-free accounts first. Put low-tax investments, such as 
growth stocks held directly, or stock exchange traded funds or 
stock index mutual funds, into regular taxable accounts.  Here are two other steps you can take:  -- Guesstimate future taxes. Maybe you live in a high-tax 
state or make so much money that you're in a top tax bracket, 
but you expect to retire on less income in a low-tax state.  It's hard to come up with a future tax figure if you're 
still many years away from retirement, but worth considering 
anyway, even if only for a rough estimate.  -- Calculate your own optimum asset allocation based on how 
much the investments are worth after their taxes are applied.  For example, let's say you are aiming for a portfolio 
that's 70 percent stocks, 20 percent bonds and 10 percent cash. 
A taxable portfolio of $7,000 in stocks, $2,000 in bonds and 
$1,000 in a money market fund wouldn't really accomplish that 
after taxes.  The $7,000 stock portfolio, which includes $2,000 in 
unrealized gains, is potentially worth $6,700 after 15 percent 
capital gains taxes.  The bond portfolio of $2,000 includes $560 in earned 
income, so it is worth $1,804 after you pay the 35 percent 
combined federal/state income tax.  The money market fund holdings of $1,000, of which $50 is 
earned dividends, would be worth $982 after income taxes.  The portfolio's actual ratio? Stocks, 70.6 percent, bonds 
19 percent, cash, 10.3 percent. If the bonds and cash were held 
in tax-free accounts instead, the ratio would look like this: 
stocks: 69 percent; bonds, 21 percent; cash, 10 percent.  That may not seem like much of a difference, but it's based 
on small amounts and only a year or two of earnings. If you 
rebalanced your portfolio for 25 years based on pretax 
holdings, your collection of assets could be seriously askew 
when it comes time to cash them in and pay Uncle Sam.  That doesn't mean you must -- or even should -- redo your 
portfolio every year based on what you guess taxes will be in 
2025. But putting the right asset in the right account and 
being mindful of future taxes when deciding how much of an 
asset to buy will help you in the long run.  (Linda Stern is a freelance writer. Any opinions in the 
column  are solely those of Ms. Stern. You can e-mail her at  lindastern@aol.com.)