-- U.S. Hybrid Car-Sales Gains May Slow After Record
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2008-01-04T23:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-04/u-s-hybrid-car-sales-gains-may-slow-after-record-update1-.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 's promotion of its
Prius, the world's top-selling gasoline-electric auto, helped
push 2007 U.S. hybrid sales up 40 percent to a record. Sales may
rise at a slower pace this year as Toyota lowers its goal.  
 Hybrids may account for 2.4 percent of U.S. new-vehicle
sales, market-research firm J.D. Power & Associates estimated
today. That would be an increase from the 2.2 percent share for
14 different hybrid models in 2007, based on Bloomberg data.  
 ``Gasoline continuing to sell for $3 or more makes everyone
more conscious of fuel economy,'' said Michael Omotoso, Power's
senior manager for powertrain technologies. Growth ``is going to
come from other players than Toyota, especially GM and Chrysler,
because of the number of models they plan to add.''  
 General Motors Corp. (GM)  and Chrysler LLC will compete this
year in a market dominated for a decade by  Japan 's Toyota and
 Honda Motor Co. (7267) , the largest sellers of autos that mate gasoline
engines with battery packs and electric motors to save fuel and
curb pollution.  
 U.S. hybrid sales may rise to 382,000 vehicles in 2008,
according to Westlake Village, California-based J.D. Power. That
would represent a 7.4 percent increase over the total for 2007,
based on Bloomberg data.  
 Irv Miller, Toyota's U.S. vice president of communications,
said in a conference call yesterday the company expected its
hybrid sales to total 275,000 this year. That would be about 1
percent less than 2007's 277,750.  
 Prius sales jumped 69 percent in 2007 to a record 181,221
units, making it No. 8 among car models in the U.S., as Toyota
stepped up marketing efforts and offered its first low-interest
loan and lease incentives on the model.  
 Battery Breakthrough  
 New hybrids from Detroit-based GM in 2008 include versions
of the Tahoe, Yukon and Escalade sport-utility vehicles, GM's
best-selling full-size SUVs. GM sold only 8,404 Saturn hybrids
last year, according to Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based
Autodata Corp. Chrysler has said it will begin selling gasoline-electric Aspen and Durango SUVs.  
 ``We've seen some pretty aggressive increases, but the
volume hasn't risen that dramatically as a portion of overall
U.S. sales,'' said Eric Fedewa, powertrain analyst at CSM
Worldwide Inc. in Northville,  Michigan .  
 Toyota, GM and other automakers plan to adopt lithium-ion
batteries that hold about double the energy of nickel-metal
modules used now in models such as the Prius and Honda's Civic
Hybrid.  
 ``That switch, about two to three years from now, is when
electrified vehicles will really begin to capture a more
substantial share of the market,'' Fedewa said.  
 J.D. Power's Omotoso estimates U.S. hybrid sales may surge
as much as 57 percent in 2009, when models including a new,
relatively low-priced Honda hybrid and revamped Prius are to go
on sale.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Versical at 
 dversical@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        