-- New $200,000 Rapide Up for Test-Drive Bid at Charity Auction
-- Patrick Cole
-- 2010-04-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-01/new-200-000-aston-martin-rapide-up-for-test-drive-bid-at-charity-auction.html

          
          
             Luxury-car aficionados won’t be able
to buy the new $200,000 Aston Martin Rapide on display tonight
at the  East Side House Settlement ’s annual auto auction and gala
in New York. Unlike past years, the winning bidder will only get
a test drive.  
 In a sign of the times, the Bronx-based charity that helps
disadvantaged kids prepare for college couldn’t get an automaker
to donate a sports car for its auction. So the winner must
settle for a week-long test drive and a one-day driving lesson
at  Aston Martin ’s Performance Driving School in Detroit.  
 “It’s a tough year,” John Sanchez, East Side’s executive
director, said in a phone interview about its efforts to get a
free car. “The business climate is such that it just wasn’t
doable this year.”  
 The Rapide is the first four-door luxury sports sedan made
by the Gaydon, England, carmaker. The 470-horsepower vehicle can
reach 188 miles per hour and soar from 0 to 60 miles per hour in
5.1 seconds.  
 Although a speedy car isn’t for sale -- last year, a
Porsche 911 GT3 was auctioned for $150,000 -- the $1,000 dinner
and $150 cocktail-party tickets at the  Jacob K. Javits
Convention Center  are going fast. Sanchez said about 1,800
tickets have been sold, about 400 more than last year.  
 Auto Show Preview  
 Besides getting a sneak preview of all the cars at the 2010
 New York International Auto Show , which opens tomorrow,
attendees can get behind the wheel of a custom  Rolls-Royce
Phantom Drophead  coupe, a 2009  Ferrari 599 GTB , a 2010  Bentley
Continental Supersports  and a Lamborghini SuperVeloce.  
 “We have a lot of Wall Street people who enjoy cars, and a
high number are committed to coming,” said the fundraiser’s co-
chairman, Philip Yang, president of Willowbridge Associates
Inc., a hedge fund in Plainsboro, New Jersey. “It’s a great way
to see the auto show without fighting the crowds.”  
 In the past decade, the auction/gala has become a magnet
for Wall Street bankers, bond traders and hedge-fund managers.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc . co-sponsors the event with
Willowbridge, Caxton Associates LP, National Australia Bank and
 Prudential Bache Commodities , Yang said.  
 The Greater New York Automobile Dealers Association, which
manages the auto show, lets the charity use the Javits Center
for free. East Side expects to raise $500,000 to help needy
students at Bronx high schools go on to college.  
 Handmade Car  
 The Rapide, which goes on sale this month, will be the
evening’s attention grabber, Sanchez said. It comes with a hand-
stitched leather interior and buyers can choose any color they
want. Each Rapide is assembled by hand, a painstaking process
that takes about 200 hours.  
 “This is a car that people have been asking us to produce
for a long time,” said Sarah Durose, Aston Martin North
America’s brand communications manager in Irvine, California.
“They want the comfort of a sports car or they may want to take
their friends to dinner. Our customers don’t want compromises.”  
 Founded in 1891, East Side’s teachers and social workers
serve about 1,500 children in after-school and evening programs.  
 (The East Side House Settlement’s preview of the 2010 New
York International Auto Show is tonight at the Jacob K. Javits
Convention Center, 655 West 34th St., at 12th Avenue in
Manhattan. Information:  http://www.galapreview.org   
 To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Aston Martin Rapide sedan. The East Side House Settlement, a South Bronx-based organization that helps needy students attend college, will auction a one-week test drive of the vehicle and a one-day driving course for charity at its 12th annual preview of the 2010 New York International Auto Show. Photographer: Steve Hockstein/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Aston Martin Rapide sedan. The East Side House Settlement, a South Bronx-based organization that helps needy students attend college, will auction a one-week test drive of the vehicle and a one-day driving course for charity at its 12th annual preview of the 2010 New York International Auto Show. Photographer: Steve Hockstein/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The emblem of the four door Aston Martin Rapide sedan. The Rapide, Aston's first-ever modern four-door, has a 6.0-liter V-12 engine and costs $200,000. Photographer: Steve Hockstein/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Aston Martin Rapide sedan speeds along in Bear Mountain State Park. The Rapide, Aston's first-ever modern four-door, has a 6.0-liter V-12 engine and costs $200,000. Photographer: Steve Hockstein/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The four door Aston Martin Rapide sedan in Bear Mountain State Park. The Rapide, Aston's first-ever modern four-door, has a 6.0-liter V-12 engine and costs $200,000. Photographer: Steve Hockstein/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
