-- Azerbaijan May Be First to Commit Gas to Nabucco
-- Ayesha Daya
-- 2008-02-20T17:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-20/azerbaijan-may-be-first-to-commit-gas-to-nabucco-update2-.html

          
          
             Azerbaijan  will probably be the first
country to commit natural gas supplies to the 5 billion-euro
($7.3 billion) Nabucco pipeline, a fuel link from the  Caspian Sea 
to  Europe  designed to reduce the continent's dependence on
 Russia .  
 ``We are closest to signing a deal with Azerbaijan,''
Reinhard Mitschek, managing director of Nabucco Gas Pipeline
International GmbH, said today in an interview in Abu Dhabi.
``The first supply contracts will be signed at the end of 2008,
after we have signed shipping contracts with European companies
who want to buy the gas.''  
 Nabucco plans to transport about 30 billion cubic meters of
gas a year through the Balkans to western European markets,
bypassing Russia. The venture is competing against the South
Stream project led by Moscow-based OAO Gazprom, which today
controls almost all gas exports out of Central Asia.  
 Azerbaijani supply was partly responsible for delaying the
start of the project by a year, to 2013.  
 ``Azerbaijan's Shah Deniz field will go on stream in late
2013, according to BP,'' Mitschek said, referring to the latest
discovery in the field, in which  BP Plc (BP/)  has a 25.5 percent stake.
``And even if it doesn't, our job is to build the pipeline. It is
up to the suppliers and customers to negotiate for gas.''  
 Pumping Gas  
 BP has been pumping gas from the Shah Deniz field since
2007, as part of phase 1 development. After additional
exploration, BP in November said the existing Shah Deniz field is
extending further to the south and will have enough gas for
further development with ``a similar or larger size'' to the
first phase.  
 ``We are looking at options for a second phase of
development but would not currently expect this to come on stream
before 2013,'' David Nicholas, a London-based spokesman at BP,
wrote in an e-mail today. The ``discovery of a new much deeper
structure underlying the current producing reservoir'' requires
further appraisal before any development decision is made.  
 Azerbaijan will remain a regional gas supplier and is
unlikely to export gas to Europe until after 2015, Julian Bowden,
a business adviser on new markets for the BP Gas Marketing Ltd.
unit of BP, said Feb. 13.  
 The pipeline, which will stretch 3,300 kilometers (2,050
miles), has obtained approval from Austria, Hungary and Bulgaria
to allow its construction. An agreement from  Romania , the final
country that the pipeline will cross, is expected by April,
Mitschek said. Once this is signed, Nabucco will begin
discussions with buyers in the second and third quarter, he said.  
 Pipeline Sponsors  
 The six sponsors of the pipeline, including  OMV AG (OMV) , central
Europe's biggest oil company, and  Germany 's second largest
utility  RWE AG (RWE) , will fund 30-40 percent of the pipeline, Mitschek
said.  
 The rest will come from loans from European banks such as
the London-based European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development. Export credit agencies may also participate in
exchange for involvement in the pipeline's construction, such as
the  Japan Bank for International Cooperation , Mitschek said.  
 Gaz de France SA , which withdrew its bid to become a seventh
partner in the pipeline, may re-bid in the future, Mitschek said.
``Gaz de  France  withdrew its existing offer, but that does not
mean it will not offer again.''  
 The U.K.'s Penspen Ltd. began initial engineering and design
of the pipeline last month, which will take at least 12 months,
Mitschek said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        