-- France Telecom Software Venture Challenges Microsoft
-- Rudy Ruitenberg
-- 2008-02-20T13:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-20/france-telecom-software-venture-challenges-microsoft-update1-.html

          
          
             France Telecom SA (FTE) , Europe's third-largest phone company, set up a venture with Thomson SA and
Sagem Communications to develop a standard for home networking
software that will compete with Microsoft Corp.  
 The company, called Soft at Home, will develop software to
let digital devices such as Internet set-top boxes, televisions
and computers work together, Georges Penalver, France Telecom's
head of strategic marketing and the Orange Labs research
division, said today at a press conference in Paris.  
 Soft at Home will help phone companies and device makers
keep down their development costs by avoiding duplication of
effort, Penalver said. The venture will adapt its software
based on input from network operators instead of imposing a
standard, he said.  
 ``Operators and equipment suppliers will jointly discuss
what they'll do,'' Penalver said. ``It's not necessarily the
goal of the company to compete with  Microsoft. (MSFT)  The difference
is, Microsoft doesn't discuss with its clients.''  
 France Telecom holds 60 percent of the venture, to be
based in Nanterre outside Paris. Thomson and Sagem each own a
20 percent stake.  
 Penalver said two telephone companies are ``very
interested'' in using the software standard, while another
three or four are awaiting the first product. Penalver said
France Telecom is open to other network operators taking a
stake in Soft at Home.  
 Home Applications  
 ``It's desirable that the operators continue to have
control of this company,'' Penalver said. ``We have to make the
round of operators that may be interested.''  
 The software will, for example, allow consumers to use
televisions to look at photos stored on a computer, or take a
phone call using a television remote control, the companies
said.  
 Soft at Home will use open-source code as the basis for
its programs, and build on software already developed by France
Telecom, Thomson and Sagem, Penalver said.  
 ``Microsoft has a standard that it seeks to implement,''
Penalver said. ``The goal is to have a standard that is
compatible with what France Telecom uses today. We'll develop
the functionality that we need at the rhythm that we need.''  
 The company will employ 70 to 80 people and the first new
software will be commercially available before the end of this
year, Penalver said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        