-- Watson Reports Profit as Investors Look to New Drugs
-- Catherine Larkin
-- 2008-02-20T21:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-20/watson-reports-profit-as-investors-look-to-new-drugs-update5-.html

          
          
             Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , the
second-biggest U.S. maker of generic drugs, reported a fourth-
quarter profit that beat analysts' estimates, compared with a
year-earlier loss tied to research costs.  
 Net income  was $38.4 million, or 34 cents a share, the
Corona, California-based company said today in a statement. A
year ago, Watson reported a loss of $489 million, or $4.80.
Earnings excluding one-time items beat by 4 cents the 31-cent-a-
share  estimate  of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Investors have waited for Watson to introduce new products
as sales of older drugs decline, and analysts say the company's
plans to re-certify a  Florida  manufacturing plant this year and
submit three new brand-name drugs to regulators are steps in the
right direction. Watson has also hired executives from rivals
Barr Pharmaceuticals Inc.,  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
and  Novartis AG (NOVN) 's Sandoz unit to help ignite growth.  
 ``It looks like 2008 could be a positive transitional year
for them if some things break their way,'' said Ken Cacciatore,
an analyst at Cowen & Co. in New York, in a phone interview
today. ``We're staying neutral on the name because at this point
the opportunities appear to be balanced out by the challenges.''  
 Watson fell 17 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $28.15 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company
has gained 3.7 percent so far this year,  compared with  a 7.2
percent decline in the 14-member Standard & Poor's 500
Pharmaceuticals Index.  
 Revenue in the quarter increased about 1 percent to $627.3
million, as a new distribution business made up for a drop in
both generic and brand-name sales. The average estimate of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $612.9 million.  
 2008 Forecast  
 Watson  forecast  2008 revenue will be little changed at
about $2.5 billion and adjusted earnings will rise to the range
of $1.90 to $2 a share, from $1.37 a share in 2007. The forecast
excludes $34 million in costs associated with plans to close a
manufacturing plant in Carmel,  New York , by 2010, and $8 million
in licensing and debt repurchase expenses.  
 The average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for full-year 2008 earnings of $1.95 a share and revenue of
$2.59 billion.  
 ``The company reported good numbers, but the earnings
guidance was probably in line to maybe a little bit
disappointing,'' Cowen's Cacciatore said.  
 Watson makes more than half its  revenue  from copies of
older brand-name medicines and ranks second among U.S. generic
drugmakers by sales, after  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  The company also sells
brand-name urology and kidney treatments and distributes drugs
for other pharmaceutical companies. It acquired the distribution
unit with the $1.9 billion purchase of Andrx Corp. in 2006.  
 Generic Sales Fall  
 Sales of generic drugs fell 17 percent in the quarter to
$343.7 million, and sales of brand-name products fell 3.2
percent to $94.1 million. Purdue Pharma LP in February 2007
discontinued Watson's authorized copies of the painkiller
Oxycontin, which had been one of Watson's biggest-selling
products.  
 Watson's total revenue was boosted by royalties from
licensing and promotion agreements and $144.1 million from the
distribution business, the company said.  
 Andrx, which specializes in controlled-release medicines,
has been barred by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration from
introducing new products since 2005 because of what the company
said were deficiencies at its Florida plant. Watson announced
last week that the FDA began re-inspecting the facility and may
approve new generics made there in the next few months.  
 New Executives  
 ``While timing is uncertain, the re-opening of the Davie,
Florida, facility could provide a catalyst for the shares,''
said Frank Pinkerton, an analyst at Banc of America Securities
in New York, in a note to clients today.  
 Paul Bisaro , who left Barr to become Watson's chief
executive officer in September, also plans to seek FDA approval
to sell three new brand-name drugs this year. The application
for the first of these, silodosin for enlarged prostates, was
accepted for consideration by the FDA this month.  
 Bisaro hired Mark Durand from Teva to be Watson's new
finance chief in November, and Francois Menard left Sandoz this
month to become Watson's senior vice president of generics
research and development.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        