-- Coca-Cola Agrees to Buy Fuze to Add Healthier Drinks
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2007-02-01T21:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-01/coca-cola-agrees-to-buy-fuze-to-add-healthier-drinks-update4-.html

          
          
             Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world's largest
soft-drink maker, agreed to buy Fuze Beverage LLC to add more
juice, tea and energy drinks in an effort to catch up with
PepsiCo Inc.  
 Coca-Cola gains a half-dozen new products including Fuze
Tea, NOS energy drinks and Fuze Slenderize, which has chromium
and amino acids that Fuze says help promote  weight loss . Atlanta-
based Coca-Cola didn't disclose terms of the purchase.  
 Fuze beverages may help Coca-Cola win back customers who
switched from sugary sodas to drinks such as PepsiCo's SoBe tea.
It's Coca-Cola's biggest U.S. acquisition since buying Odwalla
Inc. in 2001 for $186 million to gain protein drinks and juices,
said John Sicher, editor of industry journal Beverage Digest.  
 ``This represents Coke aggressively getting itself into a
better place in the noncarbonated business in the U.S.,'' Sicher
said. ``Fuze is small but growing strongly.''  
 Sicher estimated that Coca-Cola paid $225 million to $250
million for closely held Fuze. He said the Englewood Cliffs, New
Jersey-based company sold about 11.5 million cases last year, up
from 8 million cases in 2005, generating $90 million to $100
million in revenue.  
 Shares of Coca-Cola rose 22 cents to $48.10 at 4:22 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. They increased 20
percent last year, their biggest gain since 1997.  
 Bottlers  
 The Fuze purchase may help sate bottlers that had
complained about Coca-Cola falling behind PepsiCo in adding
drinks other than soda. Coca-Cola depends on soda for 80 percent
of its volume, compared with less than 20 percent for PepsiCo.  
 Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE) , the largest distributor, agreed
to distribute  Arizona  bottled teas in the U.S. last year, making
good on a promise to get new drinks from someone other than Coca-
Cola if it needed to. The bottler is 36 percent owned by Coca-
Cola.  
 ``This should be well-received by Coke's bottlers,'' Bill Pecoriello, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote today in a note.  
 Fuze was already distributed by 20 Coca-Cola bottlers
including Coca-Cola Bottling Co. United of Birmingham, Alabama,
and the Philadelphia Coca-Cola Bottling Co.  
 Only about 15 percent of Fuze's volume currently goes
through Coca-Cola bottlers, Pecoriello wrote. The Cadbury
Schweppes Bottling Group had distributed Fuze in much of the
U.S., Sicher said.  
 Coca-Cola Bottling Co. Consolidated, the second-largest
bottler for Coca-Cola, sells Cinnabon bottled coffee and created
a separate unit called Beverages and Beyond Brands to create or
buy drinks it wasn't getting from the soda maker.  
 Coca-Cola's soda volume in the U.S. dropped by a low single
digit in 2005, while noncarbonated volume jumped 10 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at   mnol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        