-- Senators Call on SEC to Reopen Probe of Mack, Pequot
-- Otis Bilodeau
-- 2007-02-01T01:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-01/senators-call-on-sec-to-reopen-probe-of-mack-pequot-update2-.html

          
          
             U.S. Senators Charles Grassley and
Arlen Specter, who last year launched an inquiry into alleged
favoritism at the Securities and Exchange Commission, said the
agency should reopen an insider-trading probe of  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
Chief Executive Officer John Mack and a hedge fund.  
 Grassley, a Republican from  Iowa , said today the SEC
mishandled its investigation, which focused on trades made by
hedge fund Pequot Capital Management Inc. The agency's effort
``was plagued with problems from its beginning to its abrupt
termination,'' he said in a speech on the Senate floor.  
 Grassley and Specter, a Republican from  Pennsylvania , laid
out ``preliminary'' results of their inquiry into a former SEC
lawyer's claim that he was fired after complaining that
supervisors had blocked him from interviewing Mack for the probe.  
 ``These findings paint a picture of a troubled agency that
faces serious questions about public confidence, the integrity of
its investigations and its ability to protect all investors,
large and small, with an even hand,'' Grassley said.  
 A Senate Judiciary Committee hearing held by Specter in
December focused on the allegations by former SEC investigator
 Gary Aguirre . Aguirre, who was fired by the SEC last year,
claimed Mack was ``insulated'' from the training probe because of
his ``political clout.'' Mack served as Pequot's chairman before
he was hired to run Morgan Stanley.  
 Senate Hearing  
 Linda Thomsen, the SEC's top enforcer, and current and
former agency lawyers denied in testimony before the Senate
Judiciary Committee on Dec. 5 that Mack was shielded from
questioning because of his influence as head of the second-biggest U.S. securities firm.  
 Morgan Stanley spokeswoman Jeanmarie McFadden declined to
comment. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Westport,
Connecticut-based Pequot, didn't return a call seeking comment.  
 Grassley called the timing of Aguirre's termination ``highly
suspect,'' because he had complained days earlier about not being
allowed by supervisors to interview Mack. Aguirre received a
merit-based pay raise less than a month before leaving the
agency. The senator called an earlier inquiry into Aguirre's
firing conducted by the SEC inspector general ``fatally flawed.''  
 ``The SEC should have taken Mr. Aguirre's allegations more
seriously,'' Grassley said. Instead, the agency ``circled the
wagons and shot the whistleblower.''  
 SEC Questioning  
 The SEC eventually questioned Mack in August, according to a
memo describing the investigation that the SEC provided to the
two senators. The memo, dated Nov. 30, said investigators found
no basis to conclude that Mack picked up inside information about
General Electric Co.'s 2001 acquisition of commercial lender
Heller Financial before Pequot began betting that Heller shares
would rise.  
 The agency sent letters to Mack and Pequot in November,
telling them investigation had been closed and no legal action
would be taken against them.  
 The SEC will ``carefully consider'' the senators'
recommendations once it has an opportunity to review them, said
agency spokesman  John Nester .  
 ``We respect and appreciate the oversight role of the
Congress, and we have fully cooperated at every stage of the
review,'' Nester said in an e-mailed statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  Washington  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Otis Bilodeau in Washington at 
 obilodeau@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Erik Schatzker  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        