-- Citigroup to shut hedge fund co-founded by CEO: report
-- 
-- Thu Jun 12, 2008 2:02am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/12/businesspro-citigroup-dc-idUSL12281820080612

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - In a blow to Citigroup Inc ( C.N ) Chief 
Executive Vikram Pandit, the bank plans to close a hedge fund 
he co-founded and will buy what is left of its assets, The Wall 
Street Journal reported on Thursday. 

  Last month, Citi said it was looking at restructuring Old 
Lane. Nearly all investors unaffiliated with the fund had 
requested to redeem their money from the fund, Citi said in a 
regulatory filing at the time.  Citi bought Old Lane last year for more than $600 million, 
but the fund's performance has since been disappointing. Citi 
wrote down $200 million of intangible assets linked to the 
acquisition in the first quarter.  "We are in the process of restructuring Old Lane," 
Citigroup spokesman Jon Diat told the Journal. "Its business 
and its people continue to be valuable to us. We are confident 
that we can realize that value over time."  Pandit personally reaped at least $165 million when 
Citigroup bought Old Lane, at which time it had amassed about 
$4.5 billion of assets.  A spokesman for Citigroup could not immediately be reached 
for comment on the newspaper report.  Citigroup officials had considered a plan to replenish Old 
Lane with anywhere from $1 billion to $3 billion of the bank's 
own capital, according to the Journal.  It reported that Old Lane CEO Guru Ramakrishnan said in a 
memo last month that the fund had secured a "substantial" 
amount of fresh capital, according to people who saw the 
document.  Citigroup has reported losses of nearly $15 billion for the 
past two quarters, forcing it to cut jobs and sell businesses. 
It has raised about $39 billion in capital since last November.  The bank is expected to take a charge in the second quarter 
related to the closure of Old Lane, the Journal said, adding 
that in the first quarter it wrote down the value of Old Lane 
by $202 million to reflect investor departures from the hedge 
fund. (Reporting by Christopher Kaufman; Editing by Kim Coghill 
and Erica Billingham)