-- Bean Counter Freaks Out Over Al-Qaeda Assassins: Jonathan Weil
-- Jonathan Weil
-- 2009-12-10T02:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-09/bean-counter-freaks-out-over-al-qaeda-assassins-jonathan-weil.html

          
          
             If the people who audit the nation’s
public companies are forced to reveal themselves, then the
terrorists will win.  
 At least that’s one of the arguments coming from the U.S.
accounting profession, now that its main regulator is thinking
of requiring audit partners to sign their names when they vouch
for companies’ financial statements.  
 Such a proposal by the regulator, the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board, is long overdue. For it to matter,
though, the board also must survive a more existential
challenge.  
 This week the Supreme Court heard arguments in a lawsuit
that seeks to disband the quasi-governmental agency, on the
grounds that the process for appointing its board members is
unconstitutional. A ruling against the board, which was created
in 2002 by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, could mark a lost chance to
bring needed transparency to a system shrouded in secrecy.  
 The way audit reports are done now in the U.S., only the
accounting firm’s name appears on the signature line. Outsiders
usually have no way of knowing which partners are in charge of
auditing which companies’ books. That’s how the firms like it.  
 Consider this bit of hysteria from a Sept. 11 letter to the
board by Paul Rohan, director of financial reporting and quality
control at UHY LLP in New Haven, Connecticut, which audits 73
public companies.  
 “An audit engagement partner who is identified to all by a
PCAOB-mandated signature on the audit report could become the
target for those bent on domestic or international terrorism,”
Rohan wrote. Risks could include “assassination or kidnapping
to the engagement partner and that partner’s family.”  
 Question on Threat  
 His comments came in response to a question in the board’s
July proposal asking if an exception is needed where disclosure
“could lead to an imminent, significant threat” to personal
security. Rohan told me, “There are a lot of people out there
who would conduct violence for violence’s sake. This would be
one way of providing them with a target for a grievance.”  
 Wacky arguments such as that underscore how right Sarbanes-
Oxley was to strip the accounting profession of its authority to
set standards for auditing public companies. Even the big firms
have resorted to varying degrees of fear-mongering.  
 Deloitte & Touche LLP in its comment letter said disclosing
partners’ names “could lead to significant security and privacy
concerns.” Grant Thornton LLP said its best partners may refuse
lead roles on “challenging audits because of real or perceived
increased legal liability risks or personal security risks
associated with particular clients.”  
 Gee, do they think officers and directors at the companies
they audit should get to remain anonymous, too?  
 Matter of Record  
 Under the board’s proposal, the partner who has final
responsibility for a company’s audit would be required to sign
the audit report. This would make it possible for outsiders to
check the person’s background. If the financial statements later
turned out to be inaccurate -- or worse, fraudulent -- the
partner’s name already would be a matter of public record.  
 While this requirement is the norm in Europe, the audit
firms don’t want it in the U.S. They say such disclosures
wouldn’t provide useful information to investors, and may lead
to increased liability for individual partners in lawsuits.  
 KPMG LLP said disclosure “could impose additional stress,
as well as personal security concerns, on the engagement
partner.” For example, “media coverage of financial problems
at a company might cite the audit firm and the individual
engagement partner by name.” Heaven forbid someone like me
should do that.  
 Arthur Andersen Partner  
 The board’s proposal brings to mind a former partner at
Arthur Andersen LLP’s Phoenix office named Jay Ozer, who
eventually lost his state licenses and was barred from
practicing before the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 Ozer was the lead audit partner at three Andersen clients
that turned out to be frauds. One during the 1980s was Lincoln
Savings & Loan, whose chief, Charles Keating, went to prison.
Another was the Baptist Foundation of Arizona, a 1990s Ponzi
scheme that cost investors more than $500 million. Finally, in
2004, Ozer paid a $50,000 fine to settle fraud accusations by
the SEC over his audit work for Styling Technology Corp., a
beauty-products maker that went bankrupt in 2000.  
 At least investors might have stood a chance at catching
Ozer’s trail if he’d ever signed his name publicly.  
 There’s more at stake than this one proposal, of course. A
ruling that the board is unconstitutional could invalidate all
of Sarbanes-Oxley, including the requirement for separate audit
reports on companies’ internal controls over financial
reporting.  
 Legal Challenge  
 The main argument of the audit firm that sued the board,
Beckstead & Watts LLP, is that an independent agency ultimately
must be answerable to the president. At the oversight board,
members are chosen by the SEC as a whole and can be removed only
“for good cause” by the commission. Beckstead says this setup
violates the separation of powers, as well as the Appointments
Clause of the U.S. Constitution.  
 Congress could fix this. Board members could be appointed
by the president, for example. Or the board’s power to inspect
audit firms and set standards could be moved to the SEC.  
 What shouldn’t be an option is a return to the days when
oversight of the accounting profession was mainly in the hands
of trade groups such as the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants. Auditing standards are too important to be
left to the auditors.  
 (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        