-- Zombies in Hiding Threaten to Trash 2010 Returns: Mark Gilbert
-- Mark Gilbert
-- 2009-12-10T00:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-09/zombies-in-hiding-threaten-to-trash-2010-returns-mark-gilbert.html

          
          
             The journey to global recovery from
credit crisis looks to be well under way. Economies from Hong
Kong to Germany to the U.S. have popped out of recession.
Consumers everywhere seem a bit more confident. Central banks
are starting to hint at ways to unhook the financial community
from the life support of liquidity and quantitative easing.  
 All that remains, dear investor, is to get through the
shopping mall. Unfortunately, the basement is still crawling
with zombies, and the chances are that they will find their way
out in 2010 while you’re trying to navigate your way to the
fields of prosperity. Here are some of the risks you’ll be
running next year:  
 Bond Vigilantes Neutered, Rating Companies Search for a Spine  
 Government bailouts mean risk has flowed to public finances
from private banks. Increased risk typically means lower ratings
and higher borrowing costs -- except debt markets are distorted.
Central banks are buying their own government’s securities and
commercial banks are repairing their balance sheets, to the
point where even the most watchful bond vigilante will struggle
to punish miscreant borrowers.  
 If the bond market can’t send a message, the rating
companies should. Greece got downgraded this week; Standard &
Poor’s revised the outlook on Spain’s debt to negative. Bigger,
higher-rated countries might be next.  
 Investors may learn the hard way that it isn’t just
collateralized debt obligations and structured finance products
that can have top AAA credit ratings one day and something lower
the next. This week’s statement by Moody’s Investors Service
that deteriorating finances in the U.S. and U.K. may “test the
Aaa boundaries” should be a reminder that lending to the U.S.
government for 10 years at an interest rate of 3.4 percent and
to the U.K. for 3.7 percent might not be your smartest trade.  
 All Quasi, No Sovereign  
 The word “quasi” means “kind of; resembling or
simulating, but not really the same as, that properly so
termed,” according to the Oxford English Dictionary. So in many
cases -- perhaps all -- using the designation “quasi-
sovereign” to describe borrowers perceived to be a smidgeon
more risky than a country, is about as helpful for assessing
creditworthiness as a chocolate teapot is for brewing a hot
beverage.  
 That’s the lesson from the Dubai debacle, where lenders are
learning that just because a company is state-owned doesn’t mean
its bondholders can access the state’s coffers when it’s time
for debts to be repaid. “Queasy Non-Sovereigns” might prove to
be a better classification for some of that higher-yielding debt
you were tempted to buy.  
 The New Normal May Prove Neither New Nor Normal  
 The phrase coined by Pacific Investment Management Co. to
describe how it sees the post credit-crunch economy is catching
on; even Bank of America Merrill Lynch adopted “The New
Normal” as part of the title for its 2010 outlook research
report.  
 Conditions, though, are still far from normal, especially
with central banks in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere keeping
interest rates at record lows in an effort to stimulate
borrowing and stoke their economies. The new normal might turn
out to be the old business-as-usual: boom-bust economies,
bubbles everywhere and a reawakening of the inflation monster.  
 You Can’t Stand Under My Umbrella  
 Anyone hanging on to Greek government debt in the belief
that the euro region wouldn’t allow a member state to get into
trouble on its debt payments doesn’t understand the Bundesbank.  
 Buy Greece because you think its bonds are cheap, or its
stock market has fallen too far, too fast, or because you trust
the government to get its finances in order. Do not, though,
depend on the euro umbrella to protect your investments; there
is no joint and several guarantee among the common currency
members and, however destructive a default might be, the
precedent of a bailout for fiscal indiscipline would be worse.  
 Securitization’s Snake-Oil Salesmen are Back  
 The financial authorities appear to have missed a golden
opportunity to force transparency on the securitization market,
where different kinds of debt are bundled together in packages
that can be sliced, diced and resold.  
 Central banks have been the only buyers of such debt for
months, after the subprime crisis revealed the toxicity of what
lay beneath the misguided AAA ratings slapped on many asset-
backed securities. As lenders of last resort, the Federal
Reserve, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England could
have forced the banks they funded to start giving granular
detail on every individual loan being securitized.  
 Such strictures would have bathed the market in the
antiseptic of sunlight. Instead, yield-hungry investors are
again willing to buy bonds without proper access to details
about the underlying assets. It’s not too late. Central bankers,
though, will have to move swiftly if they want to change the
securitization game before it’s too late.  
 Bad Losers  
 The banking fraternity needs to stop moaning about how
unfair it is that it can’t award gargantuan bonuses now that the
taxpayer has underwritten the global financial system. Such
protests only fuel the anger directed against the world of
finance.  
 Bankers need to shut up and swallow their medicine,
otherwise the nurse is likely to spank them even harder --
witness yesterday’s announcement that the U.K. will impose a
one-time 50 percent tax on bonuses above about $40,000.
Dismissing such measures as populist doesn’t change the basic
truth that governments are itching to extract revenge and banks
are soft targets. When you’re in a hole, stop digging.  
 ( Mark Gilbert  is the London bureau chief and a columnist
for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Mark Gilbert  in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        