-- Bond Traders See Slim Pickings With Volcker Rule: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-02-08T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-07/bond-traders-see-slim-pickings-with-volcker-rule-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             It is February 2013, and the U.S.
Treasury has embarked on its quarterly refunding operation.  
 “Quarterly” is something of a misnomer, seeing as how the
government had to shift to semi-monthly refinancings to
accommodate huge borrowing needs. Bond traders cling to the old
terminology, a reminder of the days when they could throw their
weight around.  
 Selling $125 billion of Treasury notes and bonds in a week
isn’t easy, what with yields skyrocketing, the dollar tanking,
foreign central banks balking and institutional investors
sitting on the sidelines.  
 On cue, the undersecretary for domestic finance assures us
the Treasury “will have no trouble selling its debt.” The only
question is the price.  
 The 30-year bond trades at a yield of 8.77 percent in the
when-issued market, 90 basis points higher than at the previous
month’s sale. The volatility has scared investors away while the
Volcker Rule banning banks from proprietary trading has whittled
the number of primary dealers down to eight.  
 The bidding is all over the place, and the $26 billion of
bonds are awarded at a yield of 8.93 percent.  
 Fantasy? Yes. Could it happen? Probably not. Is there a
message in the story? Of course. Otherwise, why would I waste my
time?  
 The Treasury isn’t about to undermine its debt sales with
rules that handcuff dealers from participating in auctions.  
 Still, writing rules that prohibit banks from speculating
with federally insured deposits -- a sound goal -- isn’t as easy
as the Obama administration thinks.  
 In the old days, there was a clear dividing line between
customer and proprietary trading. A trader servicing customers
(institutions, not moms and pops) provided liquidity: a price at
which he would buy or sell a given security. He could buy bonds
on the bid side and sell them on the offered side and pocket the
difference.  
 A prop trader bet on the direction of the market and spread
relationships (cash bond vs. bond futures, two-year vs. 10-year,
bond vs. old bond) and generally had a longer time horizon. The
prop trader is looking for movement.  
 As the number of primary dealers soared to a peak of 46 in
1988, bid-ask spreads narrowed. Once buy-side customers had
access to brokers’ screens -- the inside market -- the spreads
evaporated. Every trader became a prop trader because there was
no money in making a market in two-year Treasury notes.  
 Distinction Needed  
 The Obama administration on Jan. 21 unveiled the “Volcker
Rule,” which would bar banks from sponsoring private equity and
hedge funds as well, with only sketchy details. If a bank dealer
does a trade for a client or hedges a client position, no
problem. The goal isn’t to kill market-making; it’s to set
guidelines and allow regulators to enforce it.  
 Sounds nice on paper. What about in practice?  
 “Warehousing securities is part of creating a liquid
market,” says Paul DeRosa, a principal at Mt. Lucas Management
Co., a hedge fund, and former chief executive officer of
Eastbridge Capital Inc., a primary dealer in the 1990s.  
 That goes for both the primary and secondary market. Any
time a dealer buys Treasuries from a customer or pre-sells
securities before an auction, hoping to buy them back at a
cheaper price, “the firm’s balance sheet is involved,” DeRosa
says. “There is no way to do that without taking a prop
position.”  
 Banks Say No  
 Let’s say a dealer buys $200 million of two-year notes from
a customer and sells a duration-weighted amount of 10-year notes
because he expects the yield curve to steepen. Is that a hedge
or a prop trade?  
 Even if one could properly define and separate the two
functionalities, it’s naive to think banks would stay in the
business of making a market in Treasuries without prop trading.  
 Just think about it: If the government bans banks from prop
trading, and market-making isn’t profitable, why stay in that
business? Primary dealers aren’t in the business of providing
charity. The reason they want to be part of the club and comply
with the requirements -- bidding at Treasury auctions, trading
with the Federal Reserve in its open market operations and
providing liquidity to customers -- is that it conveys some kind
of financial advantage or edge.  
 Sketchy Plan  
 Currently most of the 18 primary dealers are affiliated
with banks. Without them, the Treasury market would be less
liquid, and the government would pay higher interest rates.
Spreads would widen, more non-banks would see opportunities and
apply to become primary dealers, and the whole thing might be
self-correcting.  
 Still, Treasury probably doesn’t want to take that chance
at a time when it’s facing net marketable borrowing of $392
billion in the current quarter and $268 billion in the April-to-
June quarter, always a “light” quarter because of the April 15
tax payment.  
 In fact, the whole idea sounds as if it were rushed out,
not thought out. Anyone gazing into the 2013 crystal ball could
have seen the unintended consequences.  
 (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        