-- Buy Stock Now to Ride Second Stage of Bull Market: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2010-02-08T02:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-07/buy-stock-now-to-ride-second-stage-of-bull-market-john-dorfman.html

          
          
             From Jan. 19 through Feb. 4, the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , a decent gauge of the overall U.S.
stock market, dropped about 8 percent.  
 Among the reasons sparking the decline were President
 Barack Obama’s  proposed tax on banks and a congressional
deadlock on health-care legislation. Some stock-market pundits
take the drop as a sign that the stock surge that began March 9,
2009, is over, or almost over.  
 I believe the rally will continue. The recent slump, in my
view, was normal. The U.S. stock market historically has
averaged at least three declines a year of 5 percent or more,
and one fall of 10 percent or more, according to Ned Davis
Research Inc. I think the rally will resume and run -- with
unpleasant interruptions, to be sure -- through most of 2010,
and possibly longer.  
 Ned Davis , head of NDR, is one of my favorite analysts. His
firm predicts a decline, perhaps even a “mini bear market,”
during the second and third quarters. It expects the market to
advance again after that.  
 The  Ned Davis team  recommends that investors go
“defensive” during that six-month stretch by buying the kinds
of stocks that usually hold up better in declining markets:
consumer staples, health care, utilities and telecommunications
stocks.  
 The Davis folks have given those four groups the acronym
SHUT (staples, health, utilities, telecom). When the SHUT stocks
break above their 200-day moving average, they say, investors
should climb onboard.  
 Saw-Tooth Advance  
 Although I respect Davis, I’m not about to play defense. I
don’t think the year will divide, like a concerto, into three
distinct movements: up, down, up.  
 Rather, I think the market will move in saw-tooth fashion,
up and down all year, but with more ups than downs. Accordingly,
I am staying with my “offensive” stocks: materials, energy,
and industrial companies.  
 In the materials field, for example, I recently purchased
shares of  Innophos Holdings Inc. , a small chemical company
located in Cranbury, New Jersey. Innophos makes phosphate salts
and other chemicals used for water treatment, as flavor
enhancers, in pharmaceuticals, and for other applications.  
 Chemical companies, like producers of steel and other
metals, tend to rise and fall with the tides of the economy.
Right now, in my view, the tides are rising.  
 Evidence of Recovery  
 Look at the fourth-quarter tally of the gross domestic
product. It rose at a 5.7 percent annualized pace, the strongest
reading since the third quarter of 2003.  
 Or consider the Conference Board’s index of leading
economic indicators. It has risen nine months in a row, from
April through December.  
 Auto sales are gaining,  home prices  have firmed in many
cities, and technology orders are improving. All in all, the
evidence points to an enduring recovery, in my view.  
 If the economy is indeed recovering, it would be shocking
for the stock market’s advance to stop abruptly. There has been
a historical pattern, and the market seems to be following it. A
terrible event such as a major terrorist act could, of course,
cause markets to abruptly change direction.  
 Second-Stage Bull  
 During most bull markets, the first 40 percent or so of
stock market gains occur in a spurt before an economic recovery
begins. This time, that would be the period from March through,
say, September.  
 The remaining 60 percent of the gains usually occur more
gradually and haltingly during the next year or two, as the
economic recovery unfolds.  
 Energy stocks usually do pretty well during the second
stage of bull-market advances. Today, there are lots of energy
companies I like.  
 One is  Atwood Oceanics Inc. , an oil and gas drilling
contractor. Though the company is based in Houston, less than 5
percent of its  revenue  comes from the U.S. The bulk of its sales
are from drilling in the Mediterranean and Black Seas as well as
offshore sites in Asia and Australia.  
 Atwood increased its fiscal year revenue to $587 million in
2009 from $161 million in 2004, and did it in the teeth of an
economic slowdown. With that record of growth, I think the
company should sell for more than the current multiple of nine
times earnings.  
 Twin Disc Undervalued  
 Plenty of industrial stocks look good to me now. One is
 Twin Disc Inc.  of Racine, Wisconsin, which makes heavy-duty
transmissions used in off-highway vehicles, yachts and other
large boats. In the nightmare year of 2008, Twin Disc  shares 
dropped to about $7 from about $35. They have recovered only
modestly since, and now trade for a bit less than $10.  
 At that price, the shares are trading right around book
value, a sign of a possible bargain. The price-earnings multiple
looks bad, at near 30, but that is because  earnings  are
evaporating-- temporarily, I believe.  
 After a profit of $1.03 a share in fiscal 2009, analysts
look for earnings to fall to about 18 cents a share in fiscal
2010, which ends in June, and  recover  to 94 cents the following
year.  
 Twin Disc is well managed and happens to be economically
sensitive. It has endured some pain, and now I think it will
reap some gain.  
 Disclosure note: I own shares of Innophos and Twin Disc
personally and for clients. I have no long or short positions in
Atwood Oceanics at this time.  
 ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
          
          


  


        