-- Deficit Distortion Makes for U.S. Fiscal Disaster: Albert R. Hunt
-- 
-- 2010-02-07T15:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-07/deficit-distortion-makes-for-u-s-fiscal-disaster-albert-r-hunt.html

          
          
             Social Security “is being used as a
piggy bank” for the U.S. government as retirees are asked to
“pay the price for the excess of  Wall Street .”  
 “We don’t have the courage to reduce spending so we
increase taxes,” the approach politicians use “every time we
get into a deficit situation.”  
 The first observation was from former Democratic
Congresswoman Barbara Kennelly of  Connecticut , now a lobbyist
for senior citizens. The other is from  Arizona ’s  Jon Kyl , the
second-ranking Republican in the Senate.  
 These charges share commonalities: They were made in
opposing the creation of an advisory bipartisan panel to make
deficit-reduction proposals, and substantively range somewhere
between hyperbole and distortion.  
 Any real deficit reduction won’t principally be borne by
the elderly, nor will it be limited to tax increases.  
 The Kennelly-Kyl axis, however, demonstrates the bipartisan
lack of will to deal with a chronic and potentially disastrous
long-term federal  budget deficit .  
 “We hear a lot of talk from lawmakers in both parties
about the need to reduce deficits, but it’s just talk,” says
Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at the Washington-based
 Brookings Institution . “All talk and no action is exactly why
the public is so fed up with Washington.”  
 Horrifying Economics  
 The numbers are stunning. Over the next 10 years, under
President  Barack Obama ’s budget, the total deficit would be $8.5
trillion; by 2020, the interest payments on the debt would be
almost as much as projected spending on all discretionary
domestic programs and as much as Medicare outlays that year. The
national debt would be approaching $20 trillion in 2020; nice
symmetry, horrifying economics.  
 Most Democrats, including the administration, offer only
lip service to addressing this crisis. It would be foolish to
cut spending or raise taxes with unemployment at close to 10
percent; the long-term efforts, however, are timid.  
 The president’s budget slices some nickel-and-dime
programs, while avoiding major reductions. On entitlements,
Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, the Obama budget is
largely silent. These account for 38 percent of this year’s
budget, rising to 46 percent of projected 2020 outlays.  
 In the separate struggle over health-care legislation, it’s
the House Democrats who are vehemently opposed to a Medicare
commission that would make recommendations on cost controls.  
 Prohibitive Tax Increase  
 More than a few Democrats say deficits can be taken care of
on the tax side. Some  Congressional Budget Office  analyses might
give pause. By 2020, balancing the budget by taxes alone would
require a 30 percent increase in revenue.  
 That means the middle class would get clobbered. The top 5
percent of U.S. wage earners today already pays about 50 percent
of federal taxes; unfortunately for these Democrats, there
aren’t enough of the rich to soak.  
 The Democrats’ record on deficits looks good only in
comparison to the Republicans. When the Senate voted the other
day on establishing that independent fiscal commission, seven
lawmakers who had been supporters, including  Mitch McConnell ,
the Republican leader, switched and voted against it. Kyl
suggested the commission would foist huge tax increases on an
unsuspecting Congress.  
 What it really would have done was establish an 18-member
commission of Democrats and Republicans and require that any
recommendation to Congress would have to be supported by at
least half the members of each party. Then Congress could reject
any recommendations. It wasn’t too tough, but too toothless.  
 More Than Spending  
 McConnell says it all should be done on the spending side.
To go to 2020, the projected $1.3 trillion deficit could be
almost wiped out if all discretionary non-security domestic
programs, including aid to education, the  National Institutes of
Health , and air-traffic controllers, were eliminated. Or if
McConnell wanted to go the entitlements route, he could cut
Social Security,  Medicare and Medicaid  outlays in half.  
 In a meeting with the president 10 days ago,  House
Republicans  rightly complained they get a bum rap for not having
any ideas. One of the brainiest members, Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , has a comprehensive budget and tax proposal.  
 It, for sure, would cut spending, eliminating Medicare and
Medicaid and replacing them with voucher systems or block grants
to the states and partially privatizing Social Security. More
than a few poor people and Americans with disabilities would get
less health-care support.  
 Biggest Changes Ever  
 On Social Security privatization, Ryan doesn’t talk much of
the severe losses some senior citizens would have suffered over
the past two years.  
 On the tax side, the Ryan proposal envisions the most
sweeping changes in U.S. history. He would retain President
 George W. Bush ’s tax cuts for the wealthy at a cost of $700
billion over the next decade. His  plan  would also eliminate all
taxes on capital gains, dividends and interest, with the bulk of
the benefits going to those earning more than $1 million a year
and would cut the corporate  tax rate  while adding an 8.5 percent
business consumption tax.  
 “This would be the greatest transfer of wealth from the
middle and working class to the wealthy that we’ve ever seen,”
says Robert Greenstein of the  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities  in  Washington .  
 Budget-Friendly Proposal?  
 The most delicious part of the sweeping Ryan proposal is
his assertion that it is budget friendly, a claim he makes by
citing a CBO analysis that even with massive tax cuts, revenue
as a percentage of gross domestic product would be at 19 percent
in 2030. How could that be? Simple, the  CBO analysis  makes
clear: It’s because Ryan’s staff instructed them what it would
be, not based on any analyses of what changes the tax cuts
really would produce.  
 Or take a look at the poster child for conservative
Republicans this political season, Florida Senatorial candidate
Marco Rubio, now favored to beat Governor Charles Crist in the
primary. Rubio supports the $700 billion extension of the Bush
tax cuts for the wealthy; cutting taxes on  capital gains  and
dividends and the corporate tax rate and bolstering defense
spending. He also favors a constitutional amendment to balance
the budget. He doesn’t tell voters how he would get there.  
 He might consult Ryan, who has discovered the elusive
remedy to the deficit dilemma. Voila! Just say it’s cured.  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        