-- More Stress Is Path Forward for New Bank Rules: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-02-08T02:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-07/more-stress-is-path-forward-for-new-bank-rules-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             In an important speech last week,
Federal Reserve Governor  Kevin Warsh  found something that both
parties can agree on when it comes to fixing the financial
system.  
 Embattled Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  should e-mail
Warsh’s speech to his colleagues before financial reform, like
health reform, spins out of control.  
 The basic message from Warsh, who was appointed to the Fed
in 2006 by  George W. Bush , was that any overhaul to how the
financial system is regulated should lock in policies that we
know work. To date, Democratic proposals have failed to do that.
Instead, they have relied on blind faith in a massive expansion
of vague government power.  
 President  Barack Obama’s  economic team had at least one
commendable success last year. The turning point in the Great
Recession occurred last May, when Geithner announced the result
of the government’s stress tests of the 19 largest U.S. banks.  
 The tests, recall, were an intensive effort to sift through
the gobbledygook and identify exactly how bad bank balance
sheets were. Small armies of economists and regulators descended
on our major financial institutions, looked under every rock,
and then evaluated which banks were likely to live, and which
were not.  
 The stress tests drew no shortage of criticism and were
viewed as a giant gamble for Geithner. Washington waited for the
results with the same dread experienced by cancer patients after
a biopsy. Economist  Nouriel Roubini  asserted that U.S. banks
were insolvent. Economist  Paul Krugman  argued that the banks
would have to be nationalized. Senior members of the Obama
economic team were thought to hold similar views.  
 Happy Surprise  
 Then a funny thing happened when the results of the tests
were announced: The banks were in much better shape than most
anyone expected. This set the stage for a rebound of confidence
in the financial sector and for private capital again to flow.
Geithner’s gamble had paid off.  
 The success of the stress tests highlighted how profoundly
inadequate our financial regulators were. If they had been doing
their jobs, the success of the tests would not have been news.
Markets would have known that banks were fine, because
regulators said that they were.  
 Current Democratic proposals call for more regulators. Why
should the new guys be any better?  
 The stress tests also highlighted problems with the level
of information banks must disclose. Until then, analysts lacked
sufficient information about balance sheets to evaluate the
general health of the banks. Only the stress tests dug deeply
enough to provide what investors really needed to know.  
 No Mention  
 Given that success, we might have expected that financial
reform would be centered on the stress tests. Instead, there has
been almost no reference to them at all. The president and
congressional Democrats are racing forward with plans for
sweeping new regulatory powers. There is talk of limiting the
size of banks or constraining what they do.  
 In his  speech , Warsh observed convincingly that such a
focus is unlikely to deliver results.  
 “If real reform were chiefly about the number of financial
regulators in Washington -- or even the precise relationships
between financial regulation and the role of the central bank --
we should find an institutional design among major financial
centers around the world that lived up to its promise,” he
said. “We find no such example.”  
 Faith in Facts  
 Rather than put our faith in bureaucrats, Warsh added, why
not trust the facts? If balance sheets are made public with
sufficient detail, stress tests can be performed routinely. Then
banks will have a strong economic interest to avoid risky
behavior, and regulators and investors will have the information
they need to see train wrecks coming months or years in advance.  
 In other words: If stress tests can create confidence in
the middle of the worst financial crisis in generations, then
they should be able to do so year in and year out.  
 This suggests two possible reform paths, both radically
different from current proposals.  
 We might consider institutionalizing the financial SWAT
teams that performed the stress tests and regularly requiring
firms to open up their books to them.  
 Or, we could require firms to provide reports to the public
that are similar in detail to what was required for the stress
tests.  
 Democrats, one might suppose, would prefer the former
solution, Republicans the latter. But either would irrefutably
be a step in the correct direction.  
 Start With Success  
 If Obama and the Democrats want to change the mood in
Washington, they should start with financial reform. Warsh’s
speech sketches a plan based on common sense and experience that
would rely on what already worked. It is hard to imagine any
sensible person opposing reforms based on that sketch. Why not
invite Republican and Democratic lawmakers, working together, to
draw up a simple reform that provides the public with regular
stress tests?  
 Usually, politicians remind us endlessly of their
successes. That makes it all the more puzzling that Obama and
his team have failed to base their reform proposals on their
biggest success of 2009.  
 ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at   khassett@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        