-- A $500 Million Eco-Cube Will House U.S. London Embassy in 2017
-- James S. Russell
-- 2010-02-24T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-23/a-500-million-eco-cube-will-house-u-s-london-embassy-in-2017.html

          
          
             Having outgrown its 1960 embassy, a
Kennedy-era modernist design by Eero Saarinen, the U.S. State
Department has decided that London is too important to build one
of its conventional insults to local sensibilities.  
 Sometime in 2013, a glass cube rising 12 tall levels atop a
shrubbery-fringed mound and estimated to cost $500 million will
sprout on the south bank of the Thames.  
 U.S. Ambassador to the United Kingdom Louis B. Susman
announced the selection of a design by the Philadelphia
architect KieranTimberlake yesterday in London. The firm, known
for adventurous, energy-conserving designs at Yale University
and in Washington, beat big-name Pritzker Prize winners Richard
Meier, Thom Mayne (of Morphosis) and Pei Cobb Freed.  
 From renderings released by the State Department, the
design looks to me like the architectural face of Obama-era
diplomacy. The embassy is discreetly fortified and ambitiously,
conspicuously green.  
 Diplomacy has been badly served by the last generation of
embassies, in which security has trumped both utility and
dignity. Repellant fortresses with pinprick windows set behind
high walls in distant suburbs have become the rule.  
 Truck bombers dictate embassy design. To dissipate the
force of explosions, the State Department insists on 30-meter
building setbacks (about 100 feet). No site large enough was
affordable within central London, so State banished the embassy
to an unglamorous site on the south bank of the Thames near
Vauxhall.  
 Hello MI6  
 Amid a jumble of motley warehouses and isolated by a main
rail line, the embassy will rise from a five-acre plot on Nine
Elms Lane as the centerpiece of an 18-acre residential and
commercial redevelopment by Ballymore Properties.  
 At least MI6, the British secret intelligence service, is
close by.  
 Green is an easy architectural image-maker in a messy
world, and firm principal James Timberlake pledges to deliver a
building that is carbon neutral -- an audacious goal.  
 The all-glass office block is a welcome contrast to the
defensive crouch of most American embassies, though it looks as
if it is covered in high-tech tufted upholstery.  
 The pliable plastic material, called ETFE, will stretch
tent-like over rods projecting from the outside walls. It will
form insulating pillows that taper into vertical and horizontal
fins. Tuned to optimal sun angles, the fins will harvest
daylight when useful and shade when needed.  
 Photovoltaic film will be laminated onto the ETFE to
collect solar energy when sun makes a rare appearance.  
 This strange building surface, both bristling and soft, is
the most conspicuous element of an extraordinarily strict
environmental regime. Even the tendency of birds to smash
themselves into glass buildings has been taken into account.  
 Carbon Neutral  
 With an additional array of PV panels on the roof and a
heating and cooling system that uses organic matter for fuel,
the building will be energy independent. It achieves carbon
neutral status by supplying heat to the rest of the development
at times and feeding surplus power into the grid.  
 The glass cube sits aloof on beefy columns atop a shrub-
covered mound, which will be partly open to the public as a
garden. The mound’s mass can dissipate the explosive force of a
car bomb, while avoiding the menacing walls and fences that
deface so many consular facilities. A pond on the north side
offers a pleasing amenity, while acting as another obstacle to
would-be bombers and a heat sink for the biomass plant.  
 Visitors, guests, and visa seekers, some 1,100 a month,
will enter through a security checkpoint in a grass-topped
pavilion set into the mound to separate gun-toting wackos from
the main building.  
 Bunker Mound  
 With so much attention devoted to the green features and
security, the design does not coalesce into a persuasive
statement about America. The beefy columns uneasily prop the
cube’s expression of technological prowess over the mound. The
prettifying plantings, can’t fully disguise the mound’s purpose
as a bunker.  
 Even in less troubled times, embassy designs have tried on
a variety of unconvincing architectural ideas of America, like
anglicized Italian palaces or columned plantation houses. At
Grosvenor Square, Saarinen unsuccessfully melded modernist
openness, American informality, and old-fashioned dignity.  
 Of course, it’s difficult to create a compelling statement
when America’s place in the world is hotly contested at home and
its international intentions are debated everywhere. America
can’t even create a coherent climate-change policy.  
 This ambivalent embassy perfectly sums up the
extraordinarily difficult Obama moment.  
 (James S. Russell is Bloomberg’s U.S. architecture critic.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An architectural rendering of the interior of the new $500 million U.S. embassy in London. The building will feature high ceilings and ETFE exterior fabric, among many design elements that will make the structure, to be completed 2013, carbon neutral. Source: KieranTimberlake Architects via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       London Embassy  
                       
                         
                           KieranTimberlake Architects 
                         
                         An architectural rendering of the overhead view of the new $500 million U.S. embassy in London. The building, to be located on the south bank of the Thames in Wandsworth borough, will feature a rooftop photovoltaic-panel array. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An architectural rendering of the overhead view of the new $500 million U.S. embassy in London. The building, to be located on the south bank of the Thames in Wandsworth borough, will feature a rooftop photovoltaic-panel array. Source: KieranTimberlake Architects  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An architectural rendering of the new $500 million U.S. embassy in London. A protective mound and water feature will shield the building from attackers while still allowing public access. Source: KieranTimberlake Architects via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An architectural rendering of the design selected for the new U.S. embassy to the United Kingdom. The building is designed by architects KieranTimberlake to be carbon neutral and is wrapped in "pillows" of transparent ETFE fabric lined with photovoltaic film. Source: KieranTimberlake Architects via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An architectural rendering of the KieranTimberlake design selected for the new U.S. embassy to the United Kingdom. One of many energy-saving features, the clear ETFE fabric that wraps the building diffuses daylight into the building interior, while shading it from direct sun. Source: KieranTimberlake Architects via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An architectural rendering of the VIP lobby of the new $500 million U.S. embassy in London. The building has a high glass wall that protects occupants from attacks by employing a deep setback from the street, and a protective entry pavilion. Source: KieranTimberlake Architects via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian walks past the U.S. Embassy on Grosvenor Square in London on Oct. 23, 2008. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
