-- Exxon, Buffett Stir Takeover Pot, for Good or Bad: David Pauly
-- David Pauly
-- 2010-02-24T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-23/exxon-buffett-stir-takeover-pot-for-good-or-bad-david-pauly.html

          
          
             Wall Street’s mergers and
acquisitions machine is recovering from its recession doldrums,
raising the old question of whether the takeovers investment
banks foster do anything more than make companies bigger and
harder to manage.
      Schlumberger Ltd . this week said it would buy oil-field
services rival Smith International Inc. for about $11 billion
and, according to Bloomberg News,  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc .
is offering about $6 billion for Millipore Corp., adding
biotechnology customers to its market for laboratory equipment.  
 There already have been some eye-popping deals.  Exxon Mobil
Corp ., the biggest U.S. oil company, in December offered about
$31 billion for XTO Energy Inc., to add the target company’s
huge reserves of natural gas.  
 Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc . on Feb. 12
completed its $26.7 billion offer for full control of Burlington
Northern Santa Fe Corp., which vies with Union Pacific Corp. as
the nation’s biggest railroad.  
 Takeovers are good for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and  Citigroup Inc ., which currently top the 2010 list of U.S. merger
advisers. It’s good too if corporate executives have renewed
confidence in the economy -- though acquisitions usually destroy
jobs rather than create them.  
 The spectacle of hostile takeovers such as  Kraft Foods
Inc .’s contested acquisition of British candy maker Cadbury Plc
might spark investor interest in the stock market.  
 Bad-mouthing  
 A similar battle for control was brewing this week.  Airgas
Inc ., the largest distributor of industrial gases in the U.S.,
blew off an unsolicited $5.1 billion bid from  Air Products &
Chemicals Inc . “We are concerned about Air Products’ ability to
manage the business,” said Airgas Chief Executive Officer  Peter McCausland , who owns 9.34 percent of his company’s shares.  
 Once the merger parade accelerates, investors will buy
shares of other oil, chemical, food and railroad companies
betting they will also be taken over.  
 CEOs and their Wall Street advisers always rationalize
their deals -- never mentioning such things as empire-building
or increased pay for running bigger companies.  
 Schlumberger says it needs Smith International’s drill bits
added to its drilling, logging and seismic businesses to compete
as the search for crude oil moves into more difficult areas both
on land and at sea.  
 There’s enough similarity in the companies’ products that
some will have to be divested to satisfy government antitrust
officials.  
 Power Moves  
 Electric utility  FirstEnergy Corp .’s plan to buy  Allegheny
Energy Inc . for $4.7 billion in stock gives the buyer access to
Allegheny’s cheaper power and gives the seller access to capital
for expansion. It had better work: FirstEnergy offered a 32
percent premium for Allegheny shares.  
   Walgreen Co . is the biggest U.S. drugstore chain but it’s
nowhere in New York City. Last week, it offered $618 million for
Duane Reade Holdings Inc., which has 257 stores in the largest
pharmacy market in the country.  
 While Walgreen used to open new stores on its own, buying
Duane Reade was a quick entry into New York and the seller,
leveraged buyout firm Oak Hill Capital Partners, no doubt was
eager to get out. Walgreen’s offer was less than the $680
million the LBO outfit paid for the New York stores in 2004.  
 Unfortunately, there’s no historical record to praise
takeovers or to condemn them. Though studies show the stocks of
buyers tend to decline in the short run, it’s impossible to say
how merged companies would have done if they hadn’t combined.  
 There are obvious successes, like Exxon’s acquisition of
Mobil, and clear disasters such as  Time Warner Inc . and what’s
now AOL Inc.  
 Takeovers are part of the corporate psyche in any case. The
best thing about the latest batch is that they indicate the
economy is approaching normalcy. Whether it’s shooting free
throws in the last seconds of a basketball game or risking
millions on a new factory, confidence is the key.  
 (David Pauly is a columnist for Bloomberg News. Opinions
expressed are his.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Pauly in Fort Myers, Florida at 
 dpauly@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        