-- Slamming Bank of America With Fine Slams Victims: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-02-24T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-23/slamming-bank-of-america-with-fine-slams-victims-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             U.S. District Court Judge Jed S.
Rakoff really, really, really wanted to toss out a $150 million
settlement between Bank of America Corp. and federal regulators
this week.  
 He called the agreement “half-baked justice,”
“inadequate and misguided” even as he approved it, fingers
firmly grasping nose.  
 Rakoff had already nixed an earlier, $33 million agreement
between the bank and the Securities and Exchange Commission as a
sweetheart deal. He ordered both sides to tell him more, much
more, about how and why Bank of America shareholders were denied
material information at a critical time.  
 The bank was buying Merrill Lynch, which was losing money,
far more money and much faster than bank managers were telling
shareholders. It’s the sort of thing shareholders would have
wanted to know before voting on the merger, to know what they
were getting into and whether they wanted to go there.  
 When the bank and the SEC gave their version of events, the
judge remained unconvinced that either side was giving him the
full picture. The SEC seemed to lack that adversarial edge that
digs for the truth.  
 So Rakoff sought out one of the bank’s most adversarial
foes, New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo , for the evidence
his investigators had marshaled in a separate, state case he
filed against the bank and two former executives.  
 But that didn’t resolve Rakoff’s underlying dilemma.
Nothing short of rejecting the money part of the deal could
have. He wrote as if he should and would in this week’s ruling.  
 The settlement’s $150 million fine “penalizes the
shareholders for what was,” he wrote, “a fraud by management
on the shareholders,” intentional or otherwise.  
 The victims pay. The managers don’t.  
 So, why impose a fine at all?  
 Shareholders Deceived  
 If the point is to deter wrongdoing, it should be assessed
against the people responsible, not some corporate entity,
Rakoff wrote.  
 But the SEC sued only the bank, which Rakoff concluded
misled investors about mammoth Merrill losses and about
Merrill’s bonuses.  
 At least he pushed for the fine to be tailored so that only
former Merrill shareholders would pay it and the bank’s
shareholders would receive it, except for directors and
officers.  
 That doesn’t solve the fundamental problem. Merrill
shareholders didn’t cause the misrepresentations, though they
benefited from them by getting more than their shares were
worth. Yet Rakoff can’t fine the specific culprits because the
SEC didn’t sue any people.  
 Cuomo Names Names  
 Cuomo did. The state’s lawsuit specifically blames former
bank President  Kenneth Lewis  and ex-Chief Financial Officer
 Joseph Price . Because the SEC didn’t, they weren’t part of the
settlement and weren’t standing before Rakoff for judgment in
federal court.  
 The real culprit in Rakoff’s order is the SEC, for its
habit of going after corporations instead of taking on the
tougher task of naming individual managers, says  John C. Coffee Jr. , securities law professor at Columbia University. He hopes
the SEC realizes that punishing shareholders only tarnishes its
reputation as an enforcer.  
 How much stronger the message if Rakoff had rejected any
and all monetary penalties against the bank. Think of the
headlines that would have produced, the people forced to ponder
whether it makes sense to slam corporations and shareholders but
not the individual deciders.  
 That is what  James Cox , securities law professor at Duke
University, says should have happened to spare investors a
double whammy.  
 Managers Get Off  
 “Why should they have to pay for the ineptitude of their
managers, when they are the victims?” he asks, adding that he
doesn’t necessarily believe ineptitude explains what happened.  
 Cuomo calls it fraud, albeit civil fraud not criminal. His
suit blames it on “self-interest, greed, hubris and a palpable
sense that the normal rules of fair play don’t apply.”  
 The funny thing is that Rakoff’s ruling could signal that
Cuomo’s claims lack substance. The judge sifted through mounds
of Cuomo’s investigative documents to see whether the SEC had
ignored evidence of intentional fraud. He also hoped to explain
the vastly different versions of events offered by Cuomo, the
bank and the SEC.  
 After doing all that, Rakoff determined that the SEC had
acted reasonably. He found “substantial evidence” that the
bank’s misleading statements resulted from mere negligence, not
intentional lying.  
 Taking No Sides  
 And even though Rakoff made it clear he wasn’t deciding
which version was true, or whether one side had more evidence
than the other, surely Lewis and Price took some solace. This is
a judge who wanted names to be named, but he stepped back from
the chance.  
 Rakoff gave a credible explanation for keeping his thumb
off the scales. It isn’t his job to rule on Cuomo’s case. And
yet, I can’t help but notice that Rakoff’s seemingly neutral
finding said there is solid ground on which the defense can
stand.  
 If the SEC had named individuals, even if only for
negligence, Rakoff wouldn’t have had to go through such
contortions.  
 On page 14 of his 15-page ruling, Rakoff says judicial
restraint prevents him from slapping down the settlement, as
unsatisfying as it is.  
 And yet, what a grand way to get the message heard. Keep
the corporate governance measures, strengthen them if you can
and kick out the fine. The way to punish corporate wrongdoers is
to punish the wrongdoers, not the shareholders who are the
corporation.  
 ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        