-- Solvay, Watson Win Dismissal of FTC Antitrust Claims
-- Lorraine Woellert
-- 2010-02-23T21:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-23/solvay-watson-win-dismissal-of-ftc-antitrust-claims-update2-.html

          
          
             Solvay SA (SOLB) , Par Pharmaceutical Cos.
and  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  won a ruling that threw out
antitrust claims in the latest defeat of the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission’s fight over drug-patent settlements.  
 The FTC claimed the companies colluded to delay until 2015
the entry of generic versions of the testosterone ointment
AndroGel made by Solvay’s drug unit, now owned by Abbott
Laboratories. Because the agreement wouldn’t delay competition
beyond the expiration of a patent on the medicine in 2020, there
was no anticompetitive effect, U.S. District Judge Thomas Thrash
in Atlanta said.  
 The ruling is consistent with other cases the FTC and
consumer groups have lost over so-called  pay-for-delay 
settlements and the FTC said it points to the need for
legislation to outlaw the practice. Drugmakers argue the
agreements are good for consumers because they allow low-cost
medicines to be available before the expiration of patents.  
 “It’s the patent that stops people from launching the
product, not the settlement,” Watson Chief Executive Officer
 Paul Bisaro  said in a telephone interview. “They come out at
this with a false premise -- that you win every case” disputing
the validity of a drug patent.  
 The FTC was challenging a 2006 agreement reached by
Brussels-based Solvay and the two companies over planned generic
versions of AndroGel, used to bring men’s testosterone levels
into the normal range. The gel can prevent muscle loss, fatigue
and erectile dysfunction in men with diabetes, HIV or advanced
age.  
 Watson Approval  
 The FTC contends that Solvay paid Par, based in Woodcliff
Lake, New Jersey, and Watson, based in Corona,  California , a
share of its AndroGel profits if they would drop their
challenges to the 2020 patent. Watson had final regulatory
approval to sell AndroGel before the settlement was reached.  
 In his decision, posted on the court’s electronic docket
today, Thrash said it “does not matter” whether the AndroGel
settlement involved payments to the generic-drug companies
because the patent was still in effect.  
 The settlement “shaved five years off the life of the
patent, guaranteeing entry by 2015 instead of 2020,” said Mark Gidley of White & Case in  Washington , who represented Par in the
dispute.  
 Abbott (ABT) , based in Abbott Park,  Illinois , bought Solvay’s
drug unit, including AndroGel, for about 4.5 billion euros ($6.1
billion) in a deal completed Feb. 16. Abbott was pleased with
the judge’s decision, spokesman Scott Stoffel said.  
 Dollars for Dates  
 The FTC contends brand-drug companies use dollars to
influence the date when copies of medicines would enter the
market, and is pushing for legislation to outlaw such
agreements. That provision is part of President  Barack Obama ’s
overall health-care proposal introduced yesterday.  
 Richard Feinstein, director of the FTC’s Bureau of
Competition, said the commission will continue to fight
“anticompetitive pay-for-delay tactics” and said the decision
underscores the need for legislation.  
 “A new law is the quickest and most effective way to serve
the interests of the millions of U.S. consumers who take
prescription drugs and deserve unfettered access to lower-cost
generic alternatives,” Feinstein said in a written statement.  
 The FTC also has a case pending against Cephalon Inc. The
Frazer, Pennsylvania-based company is accused of improperly
agreeing to pay a total of $200 million to generic-drug makers
if they dropped challenges to a patent on the sleep-disorder
drug Provigil. Cephalon is seeking dismissal of that suit.  
 ‘Sham Litigation’  
 Thrash said the direct purchasers of AndroGel could pursue
their claims that Solvay engaged in “sham litigation,” knowing
the patent wasn’t infringed, in an effort to delay competition.  
 Yesterday, Obama said he would seek to limit the use of
pay-for-delay settlements as part of broader health-care
legislation. FTC Chairman Jonathan Leibowitz has said it’s an
agency priority to eliminate settlements that involve “reverse
payments,” so named because in a typical patent case the
accused infringer pays the patent owner.  
 Watson’s Bisaro said several factors, including the
strength of the patents and chance of winning at court, go into
settlement decisions. Drug settlements shouldn’t be compared
with other patent cases in which “there’s no government agency
to stop your infringement,” he said.  
 “If there’s a patent out there, we can’t get government
approval” to sell the drug from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, Bisaro said.  
 Savings Estimate  
 The FTC said settlements can be reached without the use of
monetary incentives to influence the date of entry. In a study
released last year, the FTC estimated that outlawing pay-for-
delay deals may save American consumers $35 billion over 10
years.  
 The FTC estimated that the average price of a drug drops by
77 percent when generic versions are freely available. The study
looked at the 150 settlements reached since 2004. About a
quarter had both payments to the generic-drug companies and an
agreement over the timing of entry.  
 The study compared those agreements with the remaining two-
thirds that didn’t have those two factors. On average, the
settlements with payments added about 17 months to the time
before a generic entered the market, according to the  FTC .  
 Abbott fell 43 cents to $53.97 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. Par dropped 15 cents to $25.06 and
Watson declined 38 cents to $38.98.  
 The case is In re AndroGel Antitrust Litigation, 09md2084,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Kirk at   jkirk12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        