-- U.S. Picks Kieran Timberlake Glass-Cube Design for U.K. Embassy
-- Farah Nayeri
-- 2010-02-23T16:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-23/u-s-picks-kieran-timberlake-glass-cube-design-for-u-k-embassy.html

          
          
             Kieran Timberlake, a Philadelphia-
based architecture firm, won a contest to design the new U.S.
Embassy in London, beating three other U.S. contenders
including Richard Meier, winner of the 1984 Pritzker
Architecture Prize.  
 The new building will be a glass cube design. It will be
located south of the Thames river in Battersea, on a site that
currently hosts 1970s warehouses, the embassy’s dedicated Web
site said.  
 Kieran Timberlake was founded by Stephen Kieran and James
Timberlake. The firm’s completed projects include many
educational facilities, including the Yale University Sculpture
Building and Gallery in New Haven, Connecticut; and the Melvin
J. and Claire Levine Hall at the University of Pennsylvania in
Philadelphia.  
 The current U.S. Embassy chancery, at Grosvenor Square in
the Mayfair district, was sold for an undisclosed price in
November to the Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co., part of
Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund.  
 To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri on   farahn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An architectural rendering of the new $500 million U.S. embassy in London. A protective mound and water feature will shield the building from attackers while still allowing public access. Source: KieranTimberlake Architects via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An architectural rendering of the design selected for the new U.S. embassy to the United Kingdom. The building is designed by architects KieranTimberlake to be carbon neutral and is wrapped in "pillows" of transparent ETFE fabric lined with photovoltaic film. Source: KieranTimberlake Architects via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An architectural rendering of the KieranTimberlake design selected for the new U.S. embassy to the United Kingdom. One of many energy-saving features, the clear ETFE fabric that wraps the building diffuses daylight into the building interior, while shading it from direct sun. Source: KieranTimberlake Architects via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An architectural rendering of the VIP lobby of the new $500 million U.S. embassy in London. The building has a high glass wall that protects occupants from attacks by employing a deep setback from the street, and a protective entry pavilion. Source: KieranTimberlake Architects via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian walks past the U.S. Embassy on Grosvenor Square in London on Oct. 23, 2008. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An architectural rendering of the VIP lobby of the new $500 million U.S. embassy in London. The building has a high glass wall that protects occupants from attacks by employing a deep setback from the street, and a protective entry pavilion. Source: KieranTimberlake Architects via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An architectural rendering of the design selected for the new U.S. embassy to the United Kingdom. The building is designed by architects KieranTimberlake to be carbon neutral and is wrapped in "pillows" of transparent ETFE fabric lined with photovoltaic film. Source: KieranTimberlake Architects via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An architectural rendering of the KieranTimberlake design selected for the new U.S. embassy to the United Kingdom. One of many energy-saving features, the clear ETFE fabric that wraps the building diffuses daylight into the building interior, while shading it from direct sun. Source: KieranTimberlake Architects via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An architectural rendering of the new $500 million U.S. embassy in London. A protective mound and water feature will shield the building from attackers while still allowing public access. Source: KieranTimberlake Architects via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
