-- My Idea of Puppy Love Is Big Chests, Long Torsos, Short Legs
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-23/my-idea-of-puppy-love-is-big-chests-long-torsos-short-legs.html

          
          
             “Ears back, not a happy camper,”
the woman sitting next to me says to no one in particular.  
 We’re seated on folding chairs, watching smooth, wire-
haired and long-haired dachshunds strut their stuff in rings 4
and 5. This is the annual  Knickerbocker Dachshund Club  specialty
show at Manhattan’s Hotel Pennsylvania.  
 Many breeds hold their  specialty shows  the weekend before
the annual  Westminster  Kennel Club dog show, which this year
took place on Feb. 15 and 16. The Cavalier King Charles Spaniels
are in ring 1, the papillons in ring 3.  
 I’m at the Knickerbocker not to show but to see (canines)
and meet (breeders). Lillie, my smooth standard red dachshund,
died in October at age 13 1/2. I couldn’t imagine life without
her. For months I imagined I heard the sound of her paws padding
around on the hardwood floors or saw her curled up on the couch
in her boudoir of throw pillows. I knew I was moving on when I
began to think about a successor.  
 At first I considered other breeds. The  corgi  was the
primary competition. I have a thing for long, low bodies, and
the idea of a dog with a mission ( herding ) appealed to me after
living with three couch-potato hounds (two adopted greyhounds in
addition to Lil).  
 But I kept coming back to dachsies, which have been in the
Baum family for three generations.  
 The  dachshund  was bred to hunt badgers (the word means
“badger dog” in German). The  elongated body  and short legs
enable this tenacious hunter to burrow deep into a badger hole
and wrest its occupant from it. (What exactly does one do with a
dead badger?)  
 Burrowing in Bed  
 Lil was a top-notch burrower, especially when it came to
bed covers. On the hottest night of the summer, she could be
found nestled under the duvet.  
 I’ve been to a few dog shows in my life, yet the  protocol 
is still a complete mystery. So is the lingo. I no longer have a
reflex response to the frequent mention of “bitch” (the male
equivalent of bitch is “dog,” which seems grossly unfair to
the gals). I now know “best of opposite sex” is an  award
category , not a statement about sexual preferences or partners.
That’s the extent of my learning curve. I’m a spectator looking
for a pet, not a breeder in search of a “ best .”  
 I find an opportunity to mingle with breeders outside the
ring as they primp and preen their pooches. Many of them are
familiar to me from my 1996 search that yielded Lillie. Some of
the best ones have been around even longer. Ch Brodny
Schoolhouse  Dixie , who wins best of variety for smooth
dachshunds, is co-owned by Judy Anderson, from whom I got my
first dachshund -- first one in my adult life -- in 1980.  
 Puppy Heaven  
 From the Knickerbocker I drive to Flemington, New Jersey,
where I have a date with breeders Helen and Neal Hamilton of
 Apple Hill Kennel . If there is a heaven, it’s a place with silky
ears, soft tummies and puppy kisses.  
 The Hamiltons make me feel right at home. First I have to
meet the parents of two different litters before I get to see
the puppies.  
 The four-week-old red female is a tiny, wrinkled ball, too
young to discern her distinguished pedigree. The 12-week-old
 black-and-tan  female already looks like a dachshund. With her
beautiful markings, penetrating eyes and floppy ears, she
seduces me in no time.  
 I’ve been leaning toward a black-and-tan, a healthy change
from my two reds. I take her in my arms, and she pees on me
immediately. I know I’ve found my next puppy.  
 ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lillie, a 3-year-old standard smooth dachshund, poses on her favorite sofa in New York, in 1999. The only burrowing Lillie did was under the bed covers. Photographer: Caroline Baum/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A 12-week-old dachshund puppy is cradled in the arms of her breeder, Neal Hamilton, in Flemington, NJ. She has the classic markings of a black-and-tan dachshund. Photographer: Caroline Baum/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
