-- Calif AG sues Countrywide over alleged loan scheme
-- By  Gina Keating
-- Wed Jun 25, 2008 11:21am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/25/businesspro-countrywide-california-dc-idUSN2437152620080625

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - California Attorney General Jerry 
Brown sued Countrywide Financial Corp CFC.N and two top 
officers on Wednesday to stop the mortgage loan company from 
allegedly perpetrating a scheme to "mass produce loans for sale 
on the secondary market." 

  Countrywide made one in six U.S. mortgage loans last year 
and is closely associated with the collapsed housing bubble.  Brown's office said the lawsuit, filed in Los Angeles 
Superior Court, also seeks unspecified restitution for 
homeowners who were allegedly conned into risky, costly loans 
they did not understand by brokers desperate to meet 
unrealistic production goals.  The suit further accuses Countrywide Chairman and Chief 
Executive Angelo Mozilo and David Sambol, president of 
Countrywide Home Loans Inc, of purposely easing underwriting 
standards for mortgages and home equity lines of credit in a 
play to double to company's share of the U.S. mortgage market.  The Calabasas, California-based lender stands accused of 
deceptive advertising and unfair competition for its alleged 
misleading practice of emphasizing low introductory loan rates 
while hiding risky or costly terms and of routinely soliciting 
buyers to refinance shortly after their initial loans closed.  After problems surfaced with a large number of its loans, 
Countrywide turned a blind eye to consumer complaints that they 
did not understand the terms of their loans or had been conned 
by brokers, the lawsuit said.  The filing comes the same day that Countrywide shareholders 
vote in a special meeting on whether to approve the lender's 
takeover by Bank of America Corp ( BAC.N ). The $2.7 billion 
merger is expected to be approved and to close by July 1.  Mozilo also faces a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
probe into his sales of Countrywide stock before it declined 
steeply in the collapse of the U.S. housing bubble.  He also faces allegations that politically connected 
"Friends of Angelo" got favorable loan terms from Countrywide, 
as well as multiple shareholder lawsuits and actions accusing 
the lender of abusing the bankruptcy or foreclosure process.  (Editing by  Braden Reddall )