-- Air Force tanker award was unfair: auditors
-- 
-- Wed Jun 25, 2008 5:59pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/25/businesspro-tanker-airforce-gao-dc-idUSN2526582520080625

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The U.S. Air Force told Boeing Co 
( BA.N ) it had fully met a key requirement in competing for a 
$35 billion aerial refueling program but then changed its 
evaluation without telling the company, government auditors 
said on Wednesday. 

  The Government Accountability Office (GAO) released an 
extended explanation of its decision last week to uphold 
Boeing's protest against the contract award to Northrop Grumman 
Corp ( NOC.N ) and Europe's EADS ( EAD.PA ).  GAO said the Air Force competition to build refueling 
tankers was seriously flawed and unfairly favored the eventual 
winners,  Without those errors, losing bidder Boeing Co ( BA.N ) would 
have had a "substantial chance" of winning the contract, said 
the GAO, an arm of Congress that reviews federal contract 
bidding disputes.  In its 22,000 word document, redacted for public viewing, 
the GAO said the Air Force conducted "misleading and unequal 
discussions" with Boeing.  For example, it told Boeing it had fully satisfied an 
operation utility requirement covering things like 
maneuverability and runway operations, but later deciding it 
had only partially met the objective, without telling Boeing.  The contract was awarded on February 29 to a team made up 
of Northrop and EADS, the corporate parent of Boeing's 
passenger-jet rival Airbus.  Boeing protested the award on March 11, claiming it was 
handled improperly and unfairly favored the Northrop-led team.  The GAO upheld Boeing's protest on June 18, specifically 
relating to a number of Air Force errors, but said it also 
denied many of Boeing's challenges to the award.  According to the GAO document published on Wednesday, the 
Air Force made an error in crediting the Northrop team for 
exceeding a key aerial refueling objective, directly against 
the Air Force's own proposal that "no consideration will be 
provided for exceeding" key performance parameters.  It also made errors in assessing life-cycle costs of both 
teams' proposals, which made Boeing's appear more expensive, 
the GAO said.  The GAO has recommended that the Air Force reopen 
discussions with the bidding teams and rerun the competition. 
The Air Force, which has 60 days to respond to the initial GAO 
decision, is not bound to follow the GAO's recommendations.  The GAO emphasized that its ruling should not be 
interpreted as support for either team's bid.  "This decision should not be read to reflect a view as to 
the merits of the firms' respective aircraft," the GAO document 
said.  Boeing said the GAO document further validated the 
company's decision to protest the contract award and confirmed 
the strength of its tanker proposal.  "It is clear the award was the result of a flawed process," 
said Mark McGraw, Boeing's head of tanker programs.  Northrop said the document made clear the GAO's issues with 
the contract do not reflect on the tankers' capabilities.  "In fact, in several areas key to the selection decision 
the GAO found no basis to object to the Air Force evaluation," 
said Northrop's vice president for air mobility systems, Paul 
Meyer, in a statement.  (Reporting by  Bill Rigby ; Editing by  Tim Dobbyn )