-- Climategate Proves Sunlight Best Reply to Skeptics: Eric Pooley
-- Eric Pooley
-- 2009-12-02T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-01/climategate-proves-sunlight-best-reply-to-skeptics-eric-pooley.html

          
          
             The shouting match known as
Climategate, which erupted after damaging e-mails were hacked
from the server of a British climate research center, has been
dominated by wishful thinking on both sides.  
 Climate skeptics pretend the e-mails are proof that man-
made global warming is a hoax, the scientific consensus rigged.
That’s preposterous.  
 The hacked scientists and their defenders argue that the e-
mails amount to a tempest in a teacup, just another trumped-up
attack from the skeptics. That’s not true either.  
 The real issue here is one of trust and transparency --
values that apparently didn’t matter enough to Professor  Phil Jones , the director of the  Climatic Research Unit  at the
University of East Anglia. The files made public Nov. 19 include
a message from Jones asking other scientists to delete e-mails,
apparently as a way of dodging requests under the U.K.’s Freedom
of Information law.  
 Other e-mails discuss trying to oust a journal editor who
published skeptical papers and preventing dissenting views from
being published by the United Nations’  Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change . “I can’t see either of these papers being in
the next IPCC report,” Jones wrote. “Kevin and I will keep
them out somehow -- even if we have to redefine what the peer-
review literature is!”  
 Jones didn’t have the power to block research from the
IPCC’s climate assessment or “redefine” the peer-reviewed
literature. His evident desire to do so is troubling, though his
low opinion of the skeptical papers was justified. (Jones
acknowledged that some of the e-mails “do not read well” but
dismissed as “complete rubbish” the charge that he and his
colleagues had manipulated data.)  
 Light of Day  
 Public trust demands that this scientific debate be carried
out in the light of day -- even when doing so means that bad
science is trumpeted by the opponents of climate action.  
 One of the papers Jones questioned, for example, was so
flawed that after its 2003 publication in Climate Research, the
resulting furor led to the  resignations  of half the journal’s
editorial board. By the time the paper had been  discredited  by
other scientists, the noisiest climate skeptic in the U.S.
Senate,  James Inhofe  of Oklahoma, had already held a hearing to
publicize it. Even today, contrarian Web sites continue to tout
its specious claim that the 20th century wasn’t particularly
warm.  
 Cherry-Picking  
 Jones and his colleagues talked about withholding
information because they believed, based on bitter experience,
that the skeptics who sought their data would cherry-pick their
work for misleading “proof” that climate change was overblown.
The irony is that by talking about withholding data, they ended
up giving those skeptics a brand-new argument against them.  
 Circling the wagons in response to unfair attacks, an
understandable response, had the effect in this case of fueling
the naysayers. To regain whatever public trust may have been
lost -- and it isn’t yet clear how much damage this episode has
done -- Climategate must become the moment when the tactic of
scientific stonewalling is abandoned, and absolute transparency
becomes the only allowable standard.  
 Yes, the skeptics will cull data and make misleading
arguments, and mouthpieces like Inhofe will trumpet them. Yet
there is no better way to expose such false claims than to
subject them to vigorous, transparent peer review.  
 Available to Researchers  
 The scientific community has started talking about the
steps it needs to take to ensure the integrity and openness of
the process, including online peer-review for scientific
journals and full access to  climate data . Happily, more than 95
percent of the Climatic Research Unit’s temperature data is
already available to researchers, and the rest will soon be made
available, according to the university. (A Nov. 29 Times of
London  story  claimed that the unit had “dumped” much of its
raw data, but the university says that isn’t the case.)  
 Let the skeptics have at the data -- if the record is
sound, it will survive the attacks. Indeed, it already has.
Temperature records have been widely available for years, and
the contrarians, in spite of repeated attempts, haven’t managed
to undermine their credibility.  
 As University of Illinois climatologist Michael Schlesinger
pointed out in a  recent e-mail  to the New York Times, the East
Anglia Climatic Research Unit is just one of four major groups
tracking global surface temperatures, and all of them show the
same long-term warming trend.  
 River of Evidence  
 Other lines of evidence -- changes in ocean temperature,
atmospheric water vapor and sea ice, for example -- have led
scientists at research institutions around the world to the same
conclusion: the climate is warming, and greenhouse-gas emissions
are the cause. Climate science is a mighty river of inquiry, not
a garden hose that can be aimed this way or that at the whim of
individual scientists.  
 With a new round of climate negotiations set to begin Dec.
7 in Copenhagen, the hacked e-mails came at the worst possible
moment -- which was precisely what the hackers had in mind.
Pennsylvania State University climatologist Michael Mann,  one of
the scientists  whose e-mails were hacked, called the theft a
“smear campaign to distract the public” from the need to
reduce emissions. He is no doubt correct.  
 The tragedy is that Jones and his colleagues gave their
opponents so much to work with.  
 ( Eric Pooley , a former managing editor of Fortune magazine
who is writing a book about the politics of global warming, is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Eric Pooley at  epooley2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        