-- Obama's Losses Might Make Him a Truman: Amity Shlaes (Correct)
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2009-12-01T22:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-01/obama-s-losses-might-make-him-a-truman-amity-shlaes-correct-.html

          
          
             (Corrects organization name attacked by hackers in third
paragraph.)  
 You might think that President Barack
Obama's falling popularity will condemn him to a low rank among
presidents with so little to show in terms of legislative
accomplishment after a year in office.  
 Six weeks into the job, Obama was telling labor leaders he
was sure that the Democrats' radical union bill, the Employee
Free Choice Act, would pass, making it easier for unions to
organize workers by ending secret balloting. Now even Democrats
are acknowledging the bill may not make it.  
 Cap and trade, the administration's green-energy
legislation, was already in trouble before the news that hacked
e-mails showed Climate Research Unit scientists at the U.K.'s
University of East Anglia were concealing evidence that might
contradict global-warming alarmism.  
 Even the legislation that the Senate takes up this week,
the president's health-care reform, may not make its pass-by-
Christmas deadline. In short, Obama looks like a failure.  
 That may be true only in the short-term. The president's
2009 defeats could help to reserve him a place in the
presidential pantheon. There even is the chance that the more
Obama loses now, the higher his ranking later.  
 Consider two Democratic predecessors, Bill Clinton and
Harry Truman. Today these presidents rank high in the charts. A
C-SPAN poll rates them Nos. 15 and five, respectively. Clinton
is the dean of foreign policy, and if Truman were alive, he'd
give a six-figure speech every day of the week.  
 Early Duds  
 Then, consider these presidents' early trajectories.  
 Clinton came into office with goals remarkably similar to
Obama's. Strengthen the economy through industrial policy. Apply
stimulus to end the jobless recovery. Make the wealthy pay more
in taxes. Reform health care. Personifying these concepts was
the Rahm Emanuel of the 1990s, Labor Secretary Robert Reich.  
 The industrial policy shift turned out to be tiny. The big
stimulus got voted down. Likewise Clinton's energy tax. The tax
increase was far milder than progressives would have liked.
Health care -- well, we know what happened.  
 The future looked dark for Clinton. After his first 100
days in office, he had the support of 55 percent of the voters,
well below Obama's 67 percent, according to the Pew Research
Center for the People and the Press. The Pew data showed 37
percent of Americans registered disapproval or strong
disapproval for Clinton at his 100-day mark. The 1994 midterms
handed Congress to Newt Gingrich and the Republicans.  
 Heading to Center  
 Clinton duly steamed over to the political center, dropping
Reich overboard. Today what Americans remember about Clinton was
his moderation, his signature on a bill that ended welfare as we
knew it, his endorsement of the 20 percent capital-gains rate,
his support for the North American Free Trade Agreement and his
balanced budget.  
 It all distressed Reich so much that he titled his memoir
"Locked in the Cabinet." Certain details have been challenged,
but the book is worth reading for its rendering of progressive
frustration during Clinton's first term. Reich's recounting of
his farewell meeting with Clinton captures the sense of
betrayal.  
 "We tried, didn't we?" Reich recalls Clinton saying. "We
did some good things."  
 "Oh yeah," Reich remembers replying wryly. "And you'll
have four more years to do even more."  
 The case of Truman is more dramatic. Give 'em Hell Harry
started out as a progressive. His Fair Deal was supposed to
extend Roosevelt's New Deal.  
 Friend of Unions  
 Truman supported the old Wagner Act of the 1930s, a law
that permitted the closed shop (only union members need apply)
and severely constrained corporations' ability to defend
themselves. He tried to block Congress's bid to weaken the
Wagner Act with the Taft-Hartley Act, which he vetoed as a "bad
bill."  
 Like Hillary Clinton, Truman made much of what he
considered to be a national health-care emergency. Like Obama,
Truman backed a public option in his own health-care plan.  
 Fortunately for Truman's good name, Congress chose to
override his veto of Taft-Hartley. Lawmakers also rejected his
health-care plan. These checks freed Truman to become famous for
things like promulgating the policy known as containment, to
limit the spread of communism, and recognizing the state of
Israel. It also allowed him the posthumous pleasure of becoming
the subject of an adulatory biography by one of the nation's
premier historians, David McCullough.  
 With a Difference  
 Obama does differ fundamentally from Clinton or Truman.
After all, he had no Ross Perot in the 2008 race; he didn't
squeak into office as Clinton did in his first term. He took his
majority squarely.  
 Nor did Obama land in the Oval Office by accident, because
of the death of a president, or win a victory so close that the
Chicago Daily Tribune's editors called the election wrong
(Truman in 1945 and 1948, respectively).  
 But Obama displays one overriding similarity to Clinton. He
is a law professor. That means he relishes the act of debating
policy rather than pursuing any specific policy position. And
Obama resembles Truman in that he finds himself turning more to
foreign policy than he ever imagined in the first part of his
career.  
 So Obama ought to be thanking senators like Jon Kyl and
Mitch McConnell, not to mention Sarah Palin, whose book is
helping Republican leaders formulate plans for 2010. They will
pressure Obama to head to the center, and to look abroad.  
 As the premature Nobel Peace Prize indicates, the rest of
the world wants to remember Obama for his international
statesmanship rather than for his tax rates. Defeats at the
hands of Republicans, legislative or electoral, may well make
that wish come true.  
 (Amity Shlaes, senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on "Send Comment" in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   
          
          


  


        