-- `Higher-Grade' Wheat in Strong Demand After Rainfall in Europe, AWB Says
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-10-06T10:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/-higher-grade-wheat-in-strong-demand-after-rainfall-in-europe-awb-says.html
Rain in Europe is driving demand for
high-quality wheat after wet weather damaged crops and increased
supplies of low-grade grain, according to  AWB Ltd. , Australia’s
largest exporter.  “High-grade wheat is still strongly in demand, thanks both
to the damage in Europe and reduced supply from Canada,” AWB’s
General Manager Commodities  Mitch Morison  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Wheat harvesting has started in northern Australia as the
country’s exports this season may reach the highest level in
more than a decade, according to the federal government’s
commodity forecaster. German wheat is “hardly being exported”
because of poor quality, grain trader Alfred C. Toepfer
International GmbH said in a report Sept. 24.  “There has been considerable rain on late-harvested crops
in northern Europe that has produced significant quantities of
downgraded wheat, more than would normally be available,” said
Morison.  December-delivery futures on the Chicago Board of Trade
rose 0.8 percent to $6.67 a bushel at 8:27 p.m. Melbourne time.
They reached $8.68 on Aug. 6 after Russia banned exports.  The market has adjusted to expectations that Russia may not
export until late in 2011, and supplies are coming from France
and the U.S. has benefited from a good season, said Morison.
Buyers were “slightly more comfortable,” he said.  Wet Weather  Australian production may be 25.1 million metric tons and
exports may reach 18.4 million tons, the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural and Resource Economics-Bureau of Rural Sciences
said Sept. 14, as wet weather boosts output in eastern states,
offsetting dry conditions in the west.  The  Bureau of Meteorology  has forecast wetter-than-normal
weather may continue in the October-December period in eastern
Australia, raising concerns that harvesting may be hindered.  Rain in Europe and Canada was reducing supplies of high-
protein wheat and may also curb protein levels in Australia’s
east, Emerald Group Australia Pty. Western Australia general
manager Rob Proud said by telephone.  Dry weather would boost protein levels in Western Australia
while raising the percentage of shriveled grain and paring
output to about 4 million tons, he said.  Production of noodle wheat, shipped to Japan and South
Korea to make udon noodles, may drop to about 300,000 tons to
350,000 tons in the state compared with expectations of about
800,000 tons earlier this year, he said.  Western Australian grain production may be “closer to 4
million tons” than 5 million tons, falling from 8.2 million
tons last season, Commonwealth Bank of Australia said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  