-- Abhisit Says May `Do More' for Thailand Exporters as Baht Gains
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-10-07T10:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/abhisit-says-may-do-more-for-thailand-exporters-as-baht-gains.html
Thailand may relax limits on money
outflows and boost support for exporters struggling after the
baht rose to the strongest level in more than 13 years, Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said.  “We should target the people most affected, namely the
exporters,” Abhisit said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York. “Some measures we can adopt and we
have adopted and might do more, such as more facilitation of
outflows of capital.”  The baht’s 11 percent gain this year, the largest among
Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies outside Japan, has raised
concern overseas  shipments  that account for almost two-thirds of
Thailand’s economy may slow. The effect of the dollar’s weakness
on Asian trade also spurred Japan to intervene last month for
the first time in six years to restrain the yen, while China is
resisting calls to let the yuan rise faster.  The baht gained beyond 30 against the dollar yesterday for
the first time since July 1997, the year the local currency’s
devaluation triggered the Asian financial crisis. It
strengthened 0.2 percent to 29.88 at 5:40 p.m. local time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Bank of Thailand  last month said it only intervenes in
the currency markets to smooth volatility, and doesn’t attempt
to control the baht’s level. Asian central banks are mopping up
dollars as improving risk appetite, narrowing bond spreads, and
an increase in dollar liquidity attracts overseas funds to
emerging-market assets.  Rising Fund Inflows  All of Asia’s major currencies, excluding the Hong Kong
dollar which is pegged to the greenback, have strengthened this
year as overseas investors pumped money into the world’s
fastest-growing region. Global funds have bought $1.5 billion
more of Thai equities than they’ve sold this year, and spent a
net $39 billion purchasing stocks in India, Indonesia, South
Korea and Taiwan during the period, according to exchange data.  Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said last month that
Thailand’s rising currency reserves show that the central bank
has already been buying dollars to curb volatility in the baht.  Thailand’s  foreign reserves  grew by $18.72 billion to
$157.12 billion in the year through Sept. 3, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The nation’s  trade surplus  in the first
eight months was $6.08 billion, according to customs data.  “If there are no measures to counter inflows, the baht
will soon test the 28 level,”  Thanit Sorat , vice chairman of
the Federation of Thai Industries, said in a telephone interview
from Bangkok. “Thailand’s economy is strong, but not strong
enough to attract such a huge amount of inflows.”  Export Growth Slows  Thailand’s government has set up a committee to suggest
measures to reduce the impact of the strong baht, Thanit said.  The central bank should introduce more aggressive measures
to immediately combat the currency’s strength, Commerce Minister
 Porntiva Nakasai  said today.  “The baht is strengthening abnormally faster than
neighboring countries,” she said. “If the baht continues to
strengthen, our export target next year may be affected.”  The baht’s gain over the past week has curbed export
revenue by 6 billion baht ($201 million), Porntiva said. Without
help, 20 percent of Thailand’s small and medium-sized businesses
may face liquidity problems, she said  Korn will discuss the baht’s appreciation with Thailand’s
new central bank Governor,  Prasarn Trairatvorakul , in Washington
this week, he said in a posting on his official  Facebook  page.  General Motors, Banpu  Exports increased 23.9 percent to $16.5 billion in August
from a year earlier, after rising 20.6 percent in July and 46.3
percent in June, according to customs data. Exports are expected
to climb as much as 15 percent next year, Porntiva said Aug. 20.  General Motors Co. ,  Ford Motor Co.  and  Banpu Pcl  are among
companies that have blamed the currency for hurting overseas
sales from Thailand.  Thailand will deregulate currency transactions starting Oct.
12 to enable businesses to more effectively manage foreign-
exchange risk. Abhisit didn’t rule out additional measures to
curb gains in the currency and aid the nation’s exporters.  “We’ve had some discussions, but we haven’t committed
ourselves one way or the other,” he said late yesterday.
“We’ve learned the lesson also from the capital controls. We
were in the opposition then and we didn’t agree with it.”  Thai Capital Controls  Thailand last imposed limits on  fund inflows  in December
2006 to slow baht gains and protect exporters, a measure that
led to a divergence between the onshore traded value of the
currency and the offshore rate. The move also spurred the
benchmark stock index’s biggest slide in 16 years.  “The authorities may introduce some measures specifically
for exporters, something more targeted for exporters rather than
capital controls,” said  Emmanuel Ng , a currency strategist at
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore. “The baht is very
strong relative to its fundamentals, so we expect them to
continue to be uncomfortable with further fast gains.”  Brazil this week doubled the tax on foreign purchases of
fixed-income securities to 4 percent to stem the real’s two-year,
30 percent rally against the dollar. The baht has climbed 15
percent in the same period.  Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , a delegate to the
International Monetary Fund annual meetings in Washington this
week, said Sept. 27 there’s already a worldwide “currency war”.  Pressure on China  The race for cheaper currencies will be discussed by Group
of 20 finance deputies when they meet today in the U.S. and at a
meeting of G-7 ministers tomorrow.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who chairs the G-7
meeting, said yesterday that “there are concerns about
interventions in currency markets” and that he’s “sure” the
issue would be discussed in Washington.  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said yesterday the country will
stick to its policy of gradually increasing the currency’s
flexibility, and European Union leaders “shouldn’t join the
choir” clamoring for a stronger yuan.  Abhisit said Thailand’s central bank is also wary of
“excessive speculation” in the baht, and has tightened its
monitoring procedures.  “If there is disruptive, destructive speculation, well
then that’s something for the Bank of Thailand to decide,” he
said. “We do monitor the movements and if we feel that there is
excessive speculation it’s for the Bank of Thailand to decide
what the appropriate action would be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  