-- Aeon Raises Full-Year Profit Forecast on Cost Cuts at Supermarket Business
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2010-10-06T07:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/aeon-raises-full-year-profit-forecast-on-cost-cuts-at-supermarket-business.html
Aeon Co. , Japan’s second-largest
retailer, raised its full-year profit forecast as the company
cuts costs at its supermarket business.  Net income may climb to between 49 billion yen ($590
million) and 55 billion yen in the year ending February, Aeon
said today. In April, the company projected profit would be
between 32 billion yen and 38 billion yen, rising from 31.1
billion yen a year earlier.  Aeon  is cutting distribution and purchasing costs while
forecasting sales will be little changed this fiscal year. The
operator of the Jusco supermarket chain has increased the number
of products under its own Topvalu label, which generates higher
 profit margins  than national brands.  “We can applaud Aeon’s cost-cutting program, since it’s
working to spur profits,”  Naozumi Nishimura , an analyst at
Toward the Infinite World Inc. in Tokyo, said by phone.
Nishimura has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  The company reiterated its full-year sales forecast of at
least 5.06 trillion yen.  Aeon , which also operates stores of U.K. furnishings and
clothing chain  Laura Ashley  in Japan, rose 1.9 percent to 921
yen at the 3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange before the
earnings announcement. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
gained 1.8 percent.  First-Half Profit  The company posted a first-half profit for the first time
since 2007. Net income for the six months ended Aug. 31 was 33.6
billion yen, compared with a loss of 14.7 billion yen a year
earlier, Aeon said.  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, surged 75 percent, as the company
increased joint purchases and distribution among group companies,
according to a statement.  Aeon said it reduced selling, general and administrative
expenses by 5.9 percent in the first half as it spent less on
sales promotions. Sales of Topvalu products increased 1.2
percent to 215 billion yen in the six-month period.  The company said in a separate statement that it plans to
combine its Aeon Retail, Mycal and Aeon Marche chains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  