-- Thai Blast That Killed 4 May Give Police Clues in Hunt for More Bombers
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-10-06T10:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/thai-blast-that-killed-4-may-give-police-clues-in-hunt-for-more-bombers.html
Thai police said they may arrest more
suspects behind a recent bombing campaign in Bangkok after an
anti-government protester accidently detonated a bomb in an
apartment, killing himself and three others.  The bomb-maker had joined protests against Prime Minister
 Abhisit Vejjajiva  in April and May that killed at least 89
people, police spokesman  Prawut Thavornsiri  said. Police linked
him to four other bombings in the capital since the
demonstrations ended, he said.  “The character of those bombs was exactly the same as this
bomb,” Prawut said. “We have gathered more evidence to arrest
more people.”  Clues at the site may help security officials make progress
in halting the bombings, which threaten to scare away tourists.
The attacks have killed five people and wounded about two dozen
since Abhisit called on the military to disperse opponents after
they rejected his offer of a November election.  “Additional bombings, accidental or otherwise, are likely
to continue in Bangkok and elsewhere,”  PSA Asia , a security and
risk consulting company based in the city, said in a report
today. Last night’s blast caused a building on Bangkok’s
outskirts to partially collapse.  The suspected bomber was released on bail earlier this year
after being arrested during the antigovernment protests, and had
a court hearing coming up, Prawut said, without disclosing his
name.  Thailand’s cabinet yesterday extended a six-month state of
emergency in Bangkok and surrounding provinces for three months.
Soldiers are guarding train stations and other public spaces to
deter more attacks.  Protest Leaders Jailed  Abhisit has faced protests since taking power in a 2008
parliamentary vote after a court disbanded a party linked to
former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  for election fraud.
Pro-Thaksin parties have won the past four elections on strong
support from the Northeast, Thailand’s poorest region.  Most leaders of the April and May demonstrations are jailed,
charged with terrorism for gun battles and arson attacks during
protests. Six of 25 leaders facing charges, including Thaksin,
are abroad. Nineteen other cases are with the courts, with 16 of
the defendants in custody. They deny wrongdoing and have asked
the court to dismiss the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  