-- Thai Stocks to `Pause' in October Amid Party Lawsuits, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-10-06T03:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/thai-stocks-to-pause-in-october-amid-party-lawsuits-credit-suisse-says.html
Thai stocks  may “pause for breath”
this month amid court cases against Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Democrat party and a possible slowdown in the
economy, according to Credit Suisse Group AG said.  Investors should reduce their holdings of shares that have
been “pushed to overvalued levels,” while retaining so-called
blue-chip stocks, according to a report by  Dan Fineman  and
 Siriporn Sothikul . The availability of liquidity may give shares
“another leg up” in November and December, they said.  “Jitters do seem to be surfacing,” the analysts wrote in
the report. “Strong bottom-up catalysts are harder to find now
than even a month ago.”  Thailand’s SET Index has gained 33 percent this year as the
nation’s economy rebounded from the global financial crisis and
investors shrugged off political tensions that resulted in
deadly street protests in April and May. The gauge is the third-
best performer this year among benchmark indexes for the 15
largest stock markets in Asia Pacific.  The government said on Oct. 5 it was extending a six-month
state of emergency in Bangkok and three nearby provinces for an
additional three months.  The Election Commission in April recommended dissolution of
the Democrat party after investigating claims of illegal
campaign contributions. News from the first of two court cases
against the party will attract increasing attention in the next
three to six weeks, Credit Suisse said.  ‘Unsettle Investors’  “The prospect of another change of leadership will likely
unsettle investors,” the analysts wrote. “Nonetheless, the
court case does not seem likely to result in political
tragedy.”  Investors shouldn’t turn “too bearish,” Credit Suisse
advised, citing their expectations of a “positive” verdict
from the Democrat’s court case, “strong” domestic liquidity
and the outlook for foreign investment.  In the short run, political concerns may weigh on  banks , an
industry that still offers long-term growth prospects with
“strong cyclical tailwinds,” the analysts said.  For telecommunications stocks, the court ruling last month
upholding an injunction halting the sale of high-speed mobile-
phone service licenses has deprived the industry of a
“catalyst,” while the brokerage remains “cautious” on crude
oil, according to the report.  Economic growth may also slow next year to 4.3 percent from
an estimated 8.5 percent this year, given a slowdown in key
indicators for July and August and the outlook for exports next
year, according to Credit Suisse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  