-- PineBridge Targeting Asian, Latin American Defaulted Loans
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2010-10-06T15:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/aig-s-former-investment-unit-targets-asian-latin-american-defaulted-loans.html
PineBridge Investments LLC , the
former investment management arm of American International Group
Inc., is seeking to buy as much as $500 million of defaulted
loans as banks shed assets ahead of new regulatory capital
requirements.  The firm,  bought  this year by Richard Li’s Pacific Century
Group, is targeting non-performing loans, which can include
secured and unsecured corporate debt, mortgages and credit-card
loans, from borrowers in Latin America and Asia, said  Darryl Dong , managing director, capital recovery group at PineBridge.  After the Basel Committee of Banking Supervision last month
increased capital requirements for the world’s banks, the number
of non-performing loan sales should increase as institutions
sell assets to be in compliance. Non-performing loans grew to
about $3.4 trillion during the financial crisis and subsequent
global economic slowdown, according to the October 2009 Global
Financial Stability  Report  from the International Monetary Fund.  “If you are comfortable with, or can get comfortable with,
participating in the non-performing loan space, there should be
a lot of opportunity because not everyone wants to be there,”
said  Douglas Schneller , a partner at law firm  Pillsbury Winthrop
Shaw Pittman LLP  in New York, who represents buyers and sellers
of distressed debt.  Non-performing loans, which have typically been in default
for three months or more, are sold by banks at a discount.
Investors may hold the debt at least three to four years to
extract a profit, according to a June PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
report.  NPL Buyers  Buyers of these loans differ from distressed-debt
investors, which often buy corporate debt to take control of a
company. Non-performing loan investors also aren’t buying the
debt at depressed prices, holding the loans until they rise in
value and selling for a profit. Non-performing loan investors
spend years working through each individual credit to extract a
profit.  Apollo Global Management LLC , which previously raised a 1.3
billion euro ($1.8 billion) fund to buy primarily European non-
performing loans, may raise more to invest in this space, said a
person familiar with the fund, who declined to be identified
because the discussions are private. It was the firm’s first
fund of this type, the person said.  Kelly Nugent , a spokeswoman
for Apollo, declined to comment.  During the credit crisis, financial institutions globally
had writedowns of about $1.8 trillion, while the global
speculative-grade default rate hit a 2009 peak in November of
13.5 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
Moody’s Investors Service.  Basel III  “Banks have to put up capital to reserve against losses on
NPLs; they don’t make money resolving or collecting on” those
loans, said Dong, who is based in Hong Kong. “All the banks can
do is to minimize their loss.”  Regulators at a Sept. 12  meeting  agreed to more than double
the capital requirements for the world’s banks to at least 7
percent of assets, weighted according to their risk. Banks that
don’t comply with the Basel III rules within eight years would
be unable to pay dividends, though not forced to raise cash.  “Because of the implications of Basel III, we would
expect, and certainly see, more clients thinking of taking
assets to market in order to generate more liquid assets,” said
Rob Boulding, a director in the European portfolio advisory
group at PricewaterhouseCoopers in London.  Default Rate  The global speculative-grade default rate fell to 5 percent
in August, according to Moody’s. Defaults were punctuated by
rising unemployment, which was 9.6 percent in August, according
to  data  from the U.S. Department of Labor and compiled by
Bloomberg.  “A drop in unemployment and the return of growth for
payrolls would help to reduce non-performing consumer loans,”
said  John Lonski , chief economist in Moody’s capital markets
group. He cautioned this type of debt is “not going to return
to a range considered normal for some time.”  PineBridge’s capital recovery group has deployed $2 billion
since 2005 investing in over $4 billion of transaction value of
non-performing loans globally, Dong said. The group has invested
in countries including Brazil, China, India and Germany, he
said.  “Among the most attractive things to sell are non-
performing loans,” said  J. Paul Forrester , a partner at  Mayer
Brown LLP  in Chicago, whose practice is focused on bank
facilities, restructurings, reorganizations and workouts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Haunss  in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  