-- Airgas Would Have Weighed Bid of $70 a Share, Chief Executive Testifies
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-10-06T18:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/airgas-would-have-weighed-bid-of-70-a-share-chief-executive-testifies.html
Airgas Inc.’s chief executive officer
testified that he would have considered a $5.9 billion buyout
bid from Air Products & Chemicals Inc. last month after
shareholders voted to knock three incumbent directors off the
gas company’s board.  Airgas’ CEO  Peter McCausland  said one of his company’s
bankers was approached by an Air Products lawyer after the Sept.
15 vote and said the maker of industrial gasses might be ready
to pay as much as $69 per share for its smaller rival. Airgas
has rebuffed Air Products’ $5.5 billion purchase offer.  If “Air Products made a $70 bid and did the things I
wanted, I’d recommend” Airgas’ board begin negotiations,
McCausland testified in the trial of Air Products’ lawsuit over
Airgas’ refusal to accept its bid. At $70 per share, the offer
would have been worth $5.9 billion as of Sept. 15.  Air Products, the second-biggest U.S. industrial-gases
producer behind Praxair Inc., sued Radnor, Pennsylvania-based
Airgas on Feb. 4 to force consideration of the bid. Air Products
is based in Allentown, Pennsylvania.  As part of the case,  Airgas  is asking Chandler to
invalidate a bylaw approved Sept. 15 by shareholders that added
three Air Products nominees to the Airgas  board . The bylaw would
also move Airgas’s annual meeting to January from April at the
earliest.  Moving up the annual meeting will unfairly allow Air
Products to try to knock more Airgas nominees off the board and
take control, according to Airgas executives. Chandler has
agreed to decide both issues in the nonjury trial.  Chairman Ousted  McCausland, who was chairman of Airgas’s board, was ousted
from the panel along with two other colleagues in the Sept. 15
vote.  After the votes were tallied, the CEO was thanking
colleagues for their service when he got word that Air Products
had informally raised its offer, McCausland recalled.  He said  Michael Carr , a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker who
advises Airgas, told him  Jim Woolery , an Air Products’ lawyer,
told him the second-biggest U.S. industrial-gases producer
behind Praxair Inc. would be willing to pay “$68 or $69 per
share” for Airgas. That was an increase of at least $2.50 a
share for the gas company.  McCausland said he sent back the message through Carr that
he’d be willing to start negotiations at $70 so long as they
made the bid public and were willing to pay more if Airgas could
show the company was worth a higher price, the executive
testified. Air Products officials replied they might be willing
to pay $70, but no more, the CEO added.  Chief ‘Blew It’  Air Products officials later sent word back that McCausland
“blew it” by not immediately accepting the $70 offer, the CEO
testified.  Prior to the meeting, Air Products officials had said “to
never expect to get anything with a 7 on it” in connection with
a per-share offer, McCausland recalled.  The current offer “grossly undervalues” Airgas given the
strength of its business, McCausland added.  “I understand they want this company, but they aren’t
willing to pay fair and full value,” Airgas’ CEO said about Air
Products’ executives.  The case is Air Products & Chemicals Inc. v. Airgas Inc.,
5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 