-- Akamai Worker Charged in Scheme to Sell Secrets to Government
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/akamai-employee-charged-with-trying-to-sell-secrets-to-foreign-government.html
U.S. prosecutors charged an  Akamai
Technologies Inc.  employee with wire fraud for a scheme to sell
confidential customer lists and information on government
contracts to a foreign nation for $3,000.  Elliot Doxer, 42, of Brookline, Massachusetts, contacted an
unidentified country’s consulate in Boston in 2006, offering in
an e-mail to provide confidential information about Akamai and
its employees and asked for the money, said U.S. Attorney  Carmen Ortiz  in a statement yesterday.  Doxer, an employee in the company’s finance department,
said his chief desire “was to help our homeland and our war
against our enemies,” prosecutors said.  A U.S. federal agent posing as an agent for the foreign
country, which cooperated in the investigation, spoke to Doxer
in 2007 and established a drop-off location that Doxer visited
62 times through 2009 to leave information, according to the
statement.  Doxer identified himself in the e-mail as a Jewish American
and said the company’s clients included Arab companies and the
U.S. Department of Defense, according to a Federal Bureau of
Investigation affidavit filed in federal court in Boston. He
provided contracts between the company and the Defense
Department, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the
FBI, according to the affidavit.  Online Media Software  Akamai , based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, is the largest
supplier of software to make online media load faster. Doxer
said he worked in Akamai’s credit and collections department and
had access to invoices and signed contracts for most, if not
all, of the company’s clients, according to the affidavit.  Wire fraud carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison
and a $250,000 fine or twice the gain or loss from the fraud and
restitution.  Jeff Young , an Akamai spokesman, said yesterday in a phone
interview that Doxer is on administrative leave. There’s no
evidence that Doxer disclosed company information to anyone
outside of law enforcement, Young said.  Doxer doesn’t have a listed phone number in Brookline.
Behzad Mirhashem, an attorney at the federal public defender’s
office in Boston, didn’t return a voice-mail message yesterday.  The case is U.S. v. Doxer, 10-00464, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 