-- Malaysia Marine to Raise $630 Million in Nation's Biggest 2010 Share Sale
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2010-10-06T08:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/malaysia-marine-to-raise-630-million-in-nation-s-biggest-2010-share-sale.html
Malaysia Marine & Heavy Engineering
Holdings Bhd. said it aims to raise as much as 2.04 billion
ringgit ($660 million) in the Southeast Asian country’s biggest
initial share sale this year.  The public offer may surpass  Sunway Real Estate Investment
Trust’s  1.5 billion ringgit sale in July and underscores rising
investor appetite for equities in Malaysia amid an economic
rebound from last year’s recession. The country’s benchmark
stock  index  touched its highest level since January 2008 today
and has rallied 16 percent this year.  Malaysia Marine plans to use some of the proceeds to
upgrade its Pasir Gudang heavy engineering shipyard in the
country’s southern Johor state, according to the prospectus
issued today. The company said the money raised will also partly
finance its investment in Turkmenistan’s Kiyanly yard, which it
manages for Petronas Carigali Sdn.  “We will buy the stock,”  Lye Thim Loong , who helps manage
about $500 million at Avenue Invest Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur, said
in a phone interview. Malaysia Marine’s prospects look good as
the company benefits from increased capital spending by oil and
gas companies, he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. and
Credit Suisse Group AG are managing the share sale.  ‘Minimum Debt’  Managing Director  Wan Yusoff Wan Hamat  said the expansion
of Kiyanly yard will need 2.7 billion ringgit in total
investment and that the company has already spent more than 500
million ringgit before the share sale.  “The company will have very minimum debt post-listing,”
he told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. “We won’t have
problems funding it.”  Malaysia Marine’s order book of 5.9 billion ringgit, mostly
domestic projects, will last through 2012, Wan Yusoff said.  The company is a unit of  MISC Bhd. , the world’s biggest
owner-operator of liquefied natural gas tankers. MISC is in turn
controlled by state oil and gas company  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. ,
which also plans to list its petrochemicals division this year.  Malaysia Marine plans to sell 262 million shares, according
to the prospectus. They will be offered to individuals at 3.61
ringgit, or 95 percent of the price charged to institutions once
that has been fixed at the end of a book-building exercise
through Oct. 14, the prospectus said. Individuals would pay
whichever is the lower figure, it said.  Technip SA , Europe’s second-largest oilfield-services
provider, will purchase a strategic stake, according to the
prospectus. It will buy between 128 million and 158.4 million
shares at a 2 percent premium over the institutional price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  