-- Ally Sued by Ohio Over Alleged Fraud in Mortgage Foreclosure Documents
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-06T22:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ally-sued-by-ohio-over-alleged-fraud-in-mortgage-foreclosure-documents.html
Ohio sued Ally Financial Inc.,
claiming the lender used fraudulent practices in foreclosing on
home mortgages,  Richard Cordray , the state’s attorney general,
said.  The suit alleges that Ally’s GMAC mortgage unit violated
state consumer law and committed fraud by filing false
affidavits in foreclosure proceedings, Cordray said at a news
conference today in Cleveland. The state will seek penalties of
as much as $25,000 for each violation, he said.  While Ohio residents “were fighting to save their homes,
this loan servicer benefitted financially from the dire
circumstances,” Cordray said. “The law requires that
foreclosures as well as home sales be handled properly.”  Cordray is one of at least seven state attorneys general in
the U.S. probing whether lenders used false documents and
signatures to justify hundreds of thousands of  foreclosures .
Ally,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Bank of America Corp.  have
suspended foreclosures or evictions in 23 states where courts
have jurisdiction over home seizures.  Cordray said he would also ask JPMorgan and Bank of America
to stop foreclosures and sent letters to Wells Fargo & Co. and
Citibank Inc. seeking a meeting to discuss affidavit procedures.  “There was nothing fraudulent or deceitful about GMAC
Mortgage’s practices,”  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Ally, said
in an e-mailed statement.  “If procedural mistakes were made in the completion of
certain legal documents, GMAC Mortgage reacted proactively to
the situation and immediately undertook to remedy the
situation,” she said. “There have not been any inappropriate
foreclosures.”  The company “will vigorously defend this lawsuit and
expects to be fully vindicated by the Ohio courts,” she said.  The lawsuit is State of Ohio v. GMAC Mortgage LLC,
CI0201006984, Court of Common Pleas, Lucas County, Ohio
(Toledo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 