-- American Air Says Venture Creates NYC-London `Shuttle'
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-10-06T23:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/american-air-says-alliance-will-create-london-new-york-shuttle-service-.html
American Airlines  will step up
competition in New York City by coordinating flights with joint-
venture partner British Airways Plc to offer London departures
every half hour each evening.  The carriers’ trans-Atlantic business alliance, formally
kicked off in London today with partner  Iberia Lineas Aereas de
Espana SA , lets travelers book flights from any of their
websites. American and British Airways will mesh timing of their
11 daily Heathrow airport departures at New York’s Kennedy and
three flights at New Jersey’s Newark.  “It will be like a shuttle service between JFK and
Heathrow,”  Tom Horton , American’s president, said in an
interview today. “Nobody else, even the merged entities in the
U.S., can come anywhere close to that.”  The coordinated Kennedy-Heathrow flights, starting in
April, will depart at 8 a.m., 9:30 a.m., 6 p.m. and then every
half hour into the evening. They will compete with offerings
from United and Continental airlines, which merged on Oct. 1 to
create the world’s largest carrier, and Delta Air Lines Inc.,
which acquired Northwest Airlines Corp. in 2008.  The venture lets travelers earn and redeem frequent-flier
miles on each airline’s flights and gain access to a broader
range of connecting service and fares, the companies said.  Regulatory Approval  It puts the three carriers on equal footing with rivals in
the U.S. and Europe that already secured regulatory approval to
coordinate flight schedules, pricing, frequent-flier benefits
and customer service. Costs and revenue will be shared among the
three on flights between the European Union, Switzerland and
Norway and the U.S., Canada and Mexico.  “We have 15 years of experience cooperating with trans-
Atlantic partners, which is what has allowed us to grow to be
the clear leader in the total European market,” said  Kent Landers , a spokesman for Atlanta-based Delta. The carrier is
part of the SkyTeam alliance.  United Continental Holdings Inc. and its Virgin Atlantic
partner will offer 10 daily flights between Heathrow and New
York starting this quarter, serving both John F. Kennedy
International and Newark Liberty, said Julie King, a spokeswoman
for the combined carrier.  Average ticket prices are likely to increase as the
carriers coordinate flights to attract more business travelers,
who generally pay higher fares, and drop the lowest available
fares from the market, said  Michael Derchin , an analyst with CRT
Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  Business Travelers  A larger number of business travelers “might come out of
Delta’s or United’s or somebody else’s hide,” Derchin said in
an interview.  United Continental, with Continental’s major hub at Newark,
holds the largest market share among four New York City-area
airports, based on number of destinations from New York, weekly
departures and weekly seats in the market, according to  Dan McKenzie , a Hudson Securities analyst. Delta ranks second,
followed by American.  American, a unit of Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR Corp., and
British Airways had sought antitrust approval for their joint
venture in two earlier attempts dating back to 1997. Iberia and
British Airways plan to merge later this year.  The U.S. Transportation Department today gave tentative
approval for a similar antitrust agreement between American and
Japan Airlines Corp. for flights across the Pacific.  Pilot Recalls  American also said today it plans to recall 545 flight
attendants and 250 pilots, in part to staff international
service being added under the business alliance. American is at
least the fourth major U.S. carrier to announce employee recalls
since July as business travel returns following the recession.  AMR  rose 10 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $6.21 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 20 percent this year.  American will add flights between Kennedy and Budapest, and
Chicago and Helsinki next year, and increase the frequency of
flights between Kennedy and Barcelona, and Miami and Madrid.
British Airways will offer a new London-San Diego flight and
Iberia will begin a flight between Madrid and Los Angeles.  The combined route network of American, British Airways and
Iberia will serve more than 400 destinations in 105 countries
with about 5,200 daily departures, the companies said.  American is continuing talks with the  Port Authority  of New
York and New Jersey to move British Airways and Iberia into its
overhauled terminal at Kennedy. The plan would require an
expansion of Terminal 8, where American completed a $1.3 billion
renovation in 2007. The 1-million-square-foot facility is
American’s primary international gateway in the eastern U.S.  “We’re working closely with the Port Authority,” Horton
said. “We have a great working relationship with them.”  He declined to comment on progress in the talks, which
began after the three carriers won U.S. approval for their
business venture. A Port Authority spokeswoman didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  