-- American Air Recalls 795 Pilots, Flight Attendants
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-10-06T20:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/american-air-will-recall-795-pilots-flight-attendants-as-alliance-begins.html
American Airlines , the third-largest
U.S. carrier, plans to recall almost 800 flight attendants and
pilots to staff international flights being added under a new
business venture with  British Airways Plc  and Spain’s Iberia.  American will bring back to work 545 attendants starting
this month and 250 pilots, recalling about 30 a month beginning
in mid-November, the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier said today.
Airline labor contracts generally require companies to recall
laid-off workers before hiring new ones.  American is at least the fourth major U.S. carrier to
announce employee recalls since July, as business travel returns
following the recession and airlines see less evidence of
further economic slowing. The carrier joins  Delta Air Lines
Inc. , Continental Airlines Inc. and US Airways Group Inc. in
bringing back workers.  “We have seen a return of business traffic, which is
encouraging,” American Chief Executive Officer  Gerard Arpey 
said at a news conference in London. “Increasingly, it doesn’t
look like we’re headed for a double dip in the U.S.”  American parent AMR Corp. rose 10 cents to $6.21 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 20 percent this year.  The recalls diverge from a trend of airlines eliminating
jobs during 2008 and 2009 as travel demand declined and carriers
cut seating capacity and flights.  Airline Employment  Employment by U.S. passenger airlines fell 2.3 percent in
July from a year ago, the 25th straight month with a decrease in
full-time equivalent employees, the U.S. Transportation
Department’s  Bureau of Traffic Statistics  said last month. July
is the latest month for which the numbers are available.  American will add flights next year between New York’s John
F. Kennedy International Airport and Budapest and between
Chicago and Helsinki under its new business venture with British
Airways and Spain’s Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA. The U.S.
carrier also is increasing New York-Barcelona and Miami-Madrid
flight frequencies next year.  In the U.S., American will add flights under a strategy of
focusing on service in New York, Chicago, Dallas-Fort Worth,
Miami and Los Angeles, the company said.  “Any time we hear about our pilots being recalled, it’s
welcome news,” said  Sam Mayer , spokesman for  the Allied Pilots
Association , which represents American’s pilots. There were
1,988 pilots on furlough at American before the recall, he said.
The airline has about 9,600 active pilots.  Both the pilots union and the  Association of Professional
Flight Attendants  are in contract talks with American. There are
1,342 attendants currently on furlough.  ‘Difficult Struggle’  “It has been a long and difficult struggle for these
furloughed flight attendants, and we are thrilled that they will
be back on the job,”  Laura Glading , the union’s president, said
in a statement.  The first 25 pilots will return to work mid-November and
about 30 furloughed pilots will be recalled monthly after that,
American said. The first recall notices for flight attendants
will be issued this month to about 225 workers.  Delta said earlier this year it would recall an unspecified
number of attendants and fill 1,000 jobs at its 25 biggest U.S.
airports. The carrier also has said it would hire 250 pilots.  US Airways is recalling 80 pilots and 220 flight
attendants, while Continental will bring back about 130 pilots,
which would represent all those on furlough. Continental merged
with United Airlines on Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  