-- BA, AMR Start Atlantic Accord With New Routes, Codeshares
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-10-06T13:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/american-british-airways-iberia-start-trans-atlantic-accord-add-routes.html
British Airways Plc , American
Airlines and Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA of Spain began
their trans-Atlantic alliance by sharing booking codes on more
than 2,700 services and adding four new routes to their network.  British Airways and AMR Corp.’s  American  won antitrust
approval for their part of the tie-up in July after similar
plans were blocked by regulators in 1997 and 2001. The venture
will give the Oneworld group allies control of almost 50 percent
of U.S. flights at London Heathrow airport, Europe’s busiest in.  “We’ve been waiting for 14 years and it’s great news that
we can now put our plans into action,” AMR Chief Executive
Officer  Gerard Arpey  said today at a press conference in London.
“Our revenue-sharing partnership will further boost Oneworld,
and enable us to reduce costs and attract new business.”  The carriers announced four new services to begin in April,
with flights to be introduced by American from New York JFK to
Budapest and from Chicago to Helsinki, by British Airways from
London to San Diego and by Iberia from Madrid to Los Angeles.  “Combined selling and scheduling means that we will able
to operate routes that would not have been viable,” British
Airways CEO  Willie Walsh  said at the press conference.  Central to the accord is the coordination of fares and
timetables among the three airlines, with costs and revenue
being shared on flights between the European Union, Switzerland
and Norway and the U.S., Canada and Mexico.  ‘One-Stop Shop’  The partnership amounts to a “one-stop shop” for trans-
Atlantic travel, Walsh said, adding that while the in-cabin
product won’t be completely harmonized, “we will look after you
as if you are flying on one single entity.”  British Airways will add its code to 2,063 American and
Iberia flights to 181 cities, with Iberia codesharing on 354
British Airways and AMR trips to 96 locations and American on
322 BA and Iberia flights to 101 destinations.  The companies say the pact will allow them to better
compete with the SkyTeam grouping led by Air France-KLM Group
and Delta Air Lines Inc. and the Star Alliance that includes
Deutsche Lufthansa AG and United Continental Holdings Inc.’s
United Airlines, both of which had already won immunity from
antitrust regulators.  ‘Single-Door Approach’  “This gives them a better single-door approach for the
business market when corporate travel managers are coming to
book flights, and it will increase competition in coach,” said
 Chris Tarry , an independent analyst who has followed the airline
industry for almost three decades. “But in terms of the other
alliances they’re playing catch-up rather than jumping ahead.”  Walsh said he sees no evidence to support concern about a
possible double-dip recession, and that demand has “improved”
from a year ago, albeit from a “very low base.” AMR’s Arpey said
that the recovery remains “fragile.”  The event was also attended by  Antonio Vazquez Romero , the
chairman of Iberia, with which British Airways plans to merge by
the end of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net . 