-- Amherst President Anthony Marx Will Resign to Head New York Public Library
-- B y   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-10-06T18:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/amherst-president-anthony-marx-will-resign-to-head-new-york-public-library.html
Amherst College President  Anthony Marx  will step down on June 30 to become president of the New
York Public Library, giving him a broader opportunity to promote
public education.  The library is “New York City’s preeminent education
institution that is free and open to all,” Marx, 51, wrote
today in an e-mailed statement. Marx, a New York native, has
extolled public service by students during his eight years as
president of the Amherst, Massachusetts, college. Under Marx,
Amherst initiated a no-loan financial aid policy in 2008 that
enables graduates to pursue careers without worrying about debt.  Marx, whose appointment is subject to a vote by the  library 
board that is scheduled for today, replaces  Paul LeClerc , the
president since 1993. The library’s budget exceeds $500 million,
and it has 1,900 full-time workers, Marx said. The institution
had 18 million visits in 2009, according to its website.  “The responsibilities faced by the Library, and the larger
society, are immense,” Marx wrote in his e-mail, which was also
circulated at the college. “We have to ensure that the public
retains free access to ideas, information, and books.”  In July, the library  said  all 87 branches and four research
libraries would be open at least six days a week after the city
increased its funding by $20.1 million.  Proposed cuts  were as
large as $37 million.  Angela Montefinise, spokeswoman for the New York Public
Library, declined to comment. Peter Rooney, director of public
affairs at Amherst, declined to comment.  Career History  Marx came to Amherst after 13 years at Columbia University
in New York, where he taught political science. He attended
Wesleyan University in Middletown, Connecticut, and graduated
magna cum laude from Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut,
with a bachelor’s degree in 1981, according to Amherst’s
 website .  Marx received his Master’s of Public Administration degree
from the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University in 1986
and earned a master’s degree and doctorate from the university,
located in Princeton, New Jersey, in 1987 and 1990.  Marx’s zeal for education as a means of improving social
equality dates to the 1980s, when he helped found Khanya
College, a prep school in South Africa. In 2001, Marx started
the Columbia Urban Educators Program, which recruits and trains
teachers.  ‘A Giant’  “Anthony Marx has been a giant in the issue of
socioeconomic diversity on college campuses,” Richard
Kahlenberg, a Washington-based senior fellow at  the Century
Foundation , a nonprofit public-policy research group based in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “He was committed to
the idea that it wasn’t enough to have rich kids of various
colors on campus -- you needed genuine socioeconomic diversity
as well.”  The percentage of undergraduate students receiving Pell
Grants, federal scholarships for low-income students, at Amherst
rose to 17 percent in 2008 to 2009 from 14 percent in 2003 to
2004, Kahlenberg said, citing data from the Journal of Blacks in
Higher Education.  At many elite universities, the percentage of students
receiving the scholarships is less than 10 percent, said
Kahlenberg, who worked with Marx on the issue throughout his
tenure at Amherst.  “Other universities are getting less socioeconomically
diverse and Amherst is bucking the tide,” Kahlenberg said.
“That’s the main thing he’ll be remembered for.”  Teach for America  Marx is on the board of  Teach for America , which recruits
recent college graduates to spend at least two years working in
inner city and rural schools districts. In that role, he sent e-
mails congratulating Amherst students accepted into the program,
and devoted his 2008 commencement address to the problems facing
U.S. public education and the obligation of elite colleges to
get involved.  The presidency of the Library “gives Tony a much broader
platform to push education forward,” Colin Diver, president of
Reed College in Portland, Oregon, said in a telephone interview.
“He’s had an extremely strong run at Amherst and he’s got a
record to be proud of.”  Amherst alumni include  Calvin Coolidge , the 30th president
of the U.S.,  Scott Turow , the best-selling author, and  Joseph Stiglitz , the Nobel Memorial Prize-winning economist. It is No.
2 in U.S. News & World Report’s  ranking  of liberal-arts
colleges, after Williams College.  “ Tony Marx  defied the conventional wisdom which held that
pressing too hard to make our great institutions more accessible
would diminish their intellectual rigor and weaken America’s
standing as a beacon of knowledge and innovation,” said Jide J.
Zeitlin, chairman of Amherst’s board of trustees, said in an e-
mail. “In defying conventional wisdom, he changed it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esme E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net .
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 