-- Amika Mobile Sees Fast Growth in its Emergency Alert Technology
-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 2010-10-06T17:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/amika-mobile-sees-fast-growth-in-its-emergency-alert-technology.html
Massacres in the U.S., such as the
shooting rampages at Columbine High School in 1999 and Virginia
Tech in 2007, have inspired stiffer federal regulations
governing emergency preparedness. The need to comply with rules
that require emergency mass-notification systems in schools,
government buildings, and elsewhere is driving a market that
grew 37 percent in 2008, to $420 million, and 29 percent in
2009, to $570 million, according to research firm Gartner.  A pioneering startup poised to benefit from the push is Canada’s
Amika Mobile. Founded in 2007, the Kanata (Ont.)-based company’s
technology can send detailed alerts to mobile phones as well as
smartphones, laptops, and other devices connected to a campus or
office Wi-Fi or local area network. Through deployments in
buildings -- as well as partnerships with vendors that integrate
communication systems or sell security hardware -- Amika co-
founder and chief executive officer Suhayya Abu-Hakima estimates
that her 12-person company’s revenue will increase from $500,000
this year to $11 million in 2013. She plans to hire around 40
additional employees over the next few years. Abu-Hakima spoke
recently with Bloomberg.com contributor Antone Gonsalves about the
industry, her business, and the advantages of being a woman
leader. Edited excerpts of their conversation follow.  Antone Gonsalves: What’s behind the growth of the emergency
mass-notification market?  Suhayya Abu-Hakima: There’s a number of regulations. The first
one would be a presidential directive that comes through FEMA
[the Federal Emergency Management Agency]. This is something
that has been on the books forever and is upgraded every time
there’s a huge crisis in the United States. So for example,
post-Oklahoma City bombing [in 1995] and again after 9/11. And
what it says is every municipal, state, and federal building in
the United States has to have some sort of mass-notification
capability. No. 2, with respect to the different sectors, one of
the most active sectors for mass notification has been higher
education. All federally funded colleges and universities, both
public and private, have to adhere to the Higher Education Act,
which essentially says you’re going to have put together an
emergency procedure plan and you have to be able to notify
people if there’s an emergency.  Q: Is there more than just government regulation driving the
market?  A: Think also of people’s psyches right now. I think people are
generally concerned about their safety because of homegrown
terrorism. People generally want to be more in the loop in terms
of information, and be alerted or notified if something happens.
A lot of people in the past who would have had a disagreement or
a fight with an individual would have dealt with it in their own
home or off campus. But now people are trying to die in a blaze
of glory. They want to take a lot of people down with them. It’s
really sad.  Q: With such a high-growth market, why hasn’t Amika been able to
attract venture capital, depending instead on angel investors
and grants from the Canadian government?  A: We’d love to do some venture capital but there really isn’t a
lot of early-stage venture capital any more in Canada or the
U.S. I think there’s a lot of risk aversion and people want to
see $1 million to $2 million in revenue before they come
anywhere close to a new, innovative company, even if you have
reference customers and you’re doing all the right things. We’re
still viewed as a risk. A lot of companies at our stage of
development will be viewed as a risk until you get into the $2-
million-to-$5-million [revenue] range.  Q: Has there been market consolidation?  A: People that are in physical security are transitioning toward
convergence with the IP [Internet protocol] security side. UTC
[United Technologies], for example, has been very active in the
acquisition side. They bought GE Security. That was a huge
acquisition for them and they integrated that this year. And I
think they’ll continue to buy. ADT [Security Services] has
bought companies as well and Honeywell is buying companies. A
lot of consolidation: lots of people buying companies left,
right, center.  Q: How do you plan to meet your rapid growth projections?  A: It’s essentially going to have to be a multithreaded
approach. We’re not only selling enterprise capability, but
because our service is scalable to 100,000 users, other people
can host our capability. Also they can actually take the
technology and put it into an alarm-monitoring station. We’re
continuously being approached by partners that sell things --
whether it’s the alarm panels or cameras or the communication
systems -- to integrate our capabilities so that they can
rebrand it as theirs. Those three sources of revenue will be our
mainstay.  Q: What are some of weaknesses in mass-notification technology
today that need to be addressed by the vendors?  A: I’d like to see more standardization and we’re not seeing
that everywhere. There’s Wi-Fi and Voice over IP, but not
everybody respects the standard and everybody will have a little
bit of a variety, so it makes things harder when you’re
deploying some of these systems in colleges and universities.
Think back to what happened on 9/11 in the towers when all the
poor firemen and policemen were running up the stairs and they
couldn’t communicate with each other. The problem is
interoperability, with all these communication devices and
communication networks. A lot of people building these kind of
products should be a little more aware of the existing standards
or try to work to some standards so you can have more of this
interoperability, so first responders can talk to other people
while they try to save lives.  Q: Do you see Facebook and Twitter playing a role in emergency
mass notification?  A: Most kids today are walking around with Twitter or Facebook
going live to their hand-helds, so you’re more likely to be able
to get to them through that medium than through e-mail, because
most of them don’t even use e-mail. And that’s another important
aspect to recognize, that there’s an important generational way
to reach people. The elderly will not be ‘Twittering’ or
’Facebooking’ to get emergency information. You may have to rely
on traditional broadcast media there and on telephones, reaching
them at home, or -- if they’re computer literate -- then on
their computer.  Q: Given the dearth of women running tech companies, what is it
like being a woman CEO?  A: Every once in a while you’re going to meet people who think
you should be in the kitchen baking cookies, but you ignore it.
It doesn’t matter. As soon as you open your mouth and start
speaking and people realize that you’re intelligent and you have
great business acumen and strategy, the gender equation just
disappears.  Q: Are there advantages in being a woman?  A: I think so, because you stand out like a sore thumb. It’s
great. People listen to me because they’re curious, because I’m
from the other gender.  Q: Your first company, AmikaNow, was sold to Entrust in 2004.
Has your experience made it easier to build your second startup?  A: We’re smarter in respect to money this time around. When we
started off, we started with less capital and we got further
with less capital then we did the first time around. The first
time around, it was a 40-person team and we were running to the
races without revenue. This time around we’re a bit smarter. We
kept it smaller. It’s really important to keep your costs low.
Cash is king. Cash was king the last crash and it’s king of this
crash, too.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antone Gonsalves at  antoneg@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net  