-- Lamont Says Bank of England Shouldn't Add Stimulus as Inflation Risk Looms
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/lamont-says-bank-of-england-shouldn-t-add-stimulus-as-inflation-risk-looms.html
The Bank of England should avoid
adding more stimulus through so-called quantitative easing
because it threatens to create inflation, former U.K. finance
minister  Norman Lamont  said.  “I personally would not be in favor of another round of
quantitative easing in the U.K. now,” Lamont, who was
chancellor of the exchequer from 1990 until 1993, said yesterday
at a conference hosted by The National Association of Pension
Funds in Liverpool, England. Even though the U.K. economic
recovery “will be somewhat sluggish,” Lamont said “I don’t
think Britain is in a Japanese situation.”  Today’s Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee meeting
may produce a three-way split if  Andrew Sentance  keeps up his
bid for higher interest rates to fight inflation and  Adam Posen 
follows through with his call for more stimulus. The Institute
of Directors and British Chambers of Commerce have backed
Posen’s argument that the economy needs further aid.  “Whether the Bank of England will go for it, I can’t say,
but I would be a little more cautious,” Lamont said. “We’re
beginning to see quite a robust recovery. Of course it may fall
back again, there may even be negative quarters, but is that
really a reason to take the risk to go in for quantitative
easing, which runs the risk of creating inflation?”  The median forecast of 36 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey is for no change to the Bank of England’s bond-purchase
plan at the MPC meeting.  Bubble Risk  Loose monetary policy in developed economies such as the
U.S. and the U.K. may also risk exacerbating imbalances in the
global economy, Lamont said.  “There is a danger that with quantitative easing, we may
in another part of the world economic system create another
bubble -- in Asia,” he said. “We need to be careful we don’t
create another bubble, another crisis, a few years down the
line.”  Recent data has shown a mixed picture on the pace of
recovery. While an index of U.K. manufacturing fell to a 10-
month low in September, a gauge of service companies’ growth
unexpectedly rose.  “We do not see evidence of a double dip in this country,
but the rate of growth is nothing like it was earlier in the
year,”  David Frost , director general of the BCC, said at the
same event. “We can’t go on with the level of debt in this
country and the government needs to rein it in.”  Lamont was finance minister in 1992 when  George Soros  and
other investors forced the U.K. to abandon the European Exchange
Rate Mechanism, the precursor to the euro. He made the comments
at the NAPF’s Annual Conference & Exhibition 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  