-- Tamweel Expects Mortgage Growth After DIB Deal, CEO Saifi Says
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-10-06T05:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/tamweel-expects-mortgage-growth-after-dubai-islamic-deal-ceo-saifi-says.html
Tamweel PJSC , the United Arab
Emirates mortgage company rescued by Dubai Islamic Bank in
September, expects to book 100 million dirhams ($27.2 million)
of new home loans a month when it revives lending.  Tamweel was giving out “between 500 million to 700 million
dirhams worth of mortgages every month” during the property boom
year of 2008, Chief Executive Officer  Wasim Saifi , said in an
interview in Dubai yesterday. “If we do 100 million a month now,
it would be a respectable number in the current market,” where
home prices have fallen by half in Dubai, he said.  Tamweel and rival  Amlak Finance PJSC , once the U.A.E.’s two
biggest mortgage companies, suspended lending after the seizure
of global credit markets shut their access to funding.  Dubai
Islamic Bank PJSC , the U.A.E.’s biggest bank that complies with
Muslim banking rules, last month raised its stake in Tamweel to
57 percent from 21 percent to help boost lending.  Dubai, the second biggest of seven states that make up the
U.A.E., has faced a debt crisis since state-owned Dubai World
said in November it would restructure $24.9 billion of loans.
Tamweel and Amlak’s shares have been suspended since November
2008 as the federal government worked on a rescue plan for them.  “Dubai today is phenomenal in terms of value for money for
real estate -- you compare it to anywhere,” Saifi said. If you
consider home prices “vis-à-vis replacement cost, I don’t think
there is much room for further correction,” he said.  Housing Demand  Dubai, a trade and financial-services hub in the Gulf Arab
region, allowed foreigners to buy homes in some parts of the
emirate in 2002, creating a building boom. Demand evaporated in
2008 after the credit crisis dried up mortgage lending, sparking
a more than 50 percent plunge in home prices.  Demand for homes from “end-users is still there, although
it is selective and the numbers are not huge,” Saifi said.
Tamweel’s re-entry into the market will spur other banks to
offer mortgages and an expected improvement in the economy over
the next 18 months will boost home demand further, he said.  Tamweel has begun talks with Dubai Islamic Bank on its
business plan and on the terms and amount of loan funds it will
receive from the bank, Saifi said. Home mortgages will probably
be reintroduced in three to four weeks for as much as 75 percent
to 80 percent of the value of the property, down from about 90
percent to 95 percent during the property boom years, Saifi
said. Interest rates on Tamweel’s mortgages will be between 6.5
percent and 8 percent, the current market range, he said.  Property prices in Dubai are unlikely to recover soon as
41,000 new homes are expected to be completed by the end of this
year, adding to a glut of homes, according to estimates by
property consultants Colliers International in May.  “With the supply pressure, there could be another 5 to 10
percent decline in home prices,” Saifi said. “Otherwise prices
would stabilize at current levels. My guess is that the industry
is originating 500 million to 600 million dirhams of mortgages
every month, a small fraction of what it was doing earlier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  