-- Landry's Wins Court Approval to Settle Shareholder Lawsuits Over Buyout
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2010-10-06T17:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/landry-s-wins-court-approval-to-settle-shareholder-lawsuits-over-buyout.html
Landry’s Restaurants Inc.  Chief
Executive Officer  Tilman Fertitta  completed a $1.4 billion
 buyout  of the company today after a judge approved a settlement
of  lawsuits  brought by investors.  Fertitta, Landry’s majority  shareholder , eventually offered
$24.50 a share. In one case, after negotiations, the takeover
price increased by $65 million, according to court papers. To
resolve a second case, investors will share in a $14.5 million
fund.  “This is a settlement that it’s a pleasure to review,”
Delaware Chancery Court Judge  J. Travis Laster  said today at a
hearing in Wilmington. He awarded the shareholders’ lawyers
about $12.2 million in legal fees and expenses, calling the
amount “reasonable and well-earned.”  Although he wanted to buy the company “as cheap as
possible,” plaintiffs’ lawyer  Stuart M. Grant  told the judge,
“Fertitta is a key element to the success of this business.”  The company started in 1980 in Katy, Texas, and operates
restaurants including the Rainforest Café and Saltgrass brands
and Golden Nugget Hotel and Casino, according to its website.  The settlement fund, expected to come from insurance
proceeds, will be distributed to eligible shareholders who  file
claims , court papers show.  Landry’s, based in Houston, had  sales  of $1.06 billion last
year.  Fertitta first offered to buy out Landry’s shareholders in
January 2008, for $23.50 a share. He lowered his offer later
that year, citing instability in the credit markets and
hurricane damage to some Landry’s properties. Last November,
Fertitta said he would pay $14.75 in cash.  The consolidated case is Louisiana Municipal Police
Employees’ Retirement System v.  Tilman J. Fertitta , CA4339,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 