-- Announced U.S. Job Cuts Fall 44% From Year Ago, Challenger Says
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-10-06T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/announced-september-u-s-job-cuts-fall-44-from-year-ago-challenger-says.html
Job cuts announced by U.S. employers
fell in September from a year earlier, indicating the labor
market is being restrained by a lack of hiring rather than an
increase in dismissals.  Planned firings  dropped 44 percent to 37,151 last month
from 66,404 in September 2009, according to Chicago-based
Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. The September figures ended a
quarter in which job cuts were the fewest in a decade.  The reductions would have been even smaller were it not for
government and non-profit sector, which last month announced the
biggest job cuts since May, the report said. While some
companies are putting fewer Americans on unemployment lines,
others have yet to begin to add to payrolls at a pace that will
boost consumer spending and the recovery.  “The low job-cut numbers we are seeing in almost every
sector do not necessarily translate into increased hiring,”
 John A. Challenger , chief executive officer of Challenger, Gray
& Christmas, said in a statement. “There is hiring going on in
the economy, but it is not enough to make a discernible dent in
the number of unemployed.”  Compared with August, job-cut announcements rose 7 percent.
Because the figures aren’t adjusted for seasonal effects,
economists prefer to focus on year-over-year changes rather than
monthly numbers.  Government and nonprofit agencies led the firings with
11,091 announcements, followed by the pharmaceutical industry
with 6,069. Government staffing is declining as the decennial
federal census population count winds down and budget deficits
force state and local cutbacks.  Texas, Illinois  Texas led all states with 5,995 announced job cuts, while
Illinois was second with 5,918.  Companies trimming staff last month included Providence,
Rhode Island-based  Textron Inc.  The aircraft maker plans to cut
700 jobs at its Cessna plane division as it reduces production
further because demand hasn’t yet picked up after the recession.  Employers announced plans to hire 123,076 workers in
September, up from 14,075 the prior month. The retail industry
topped the list, with plans to take on 114,000 workers, the
report showed.  Toys ‘R’ Us Inc. , the world’s biggest toy retailer, said it
plans to hire about 45,000 employees to cope with demand during
the holiday season.  A report from the Labor Department on Oct. 8 may show
companies added 75,000 jobs in September, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Including the government, payrolls probably stagnated after a
loss of 54,000 the prior month, according to the survey. The
 jobless rate  probably rose to 9.7 percent from 9.6 percent.  Challenger’s data do not always correlate with figures on
payrolls or first-time jobless claims as reported by the
government. Many job cuts are carried out through attrition or
early retirement. Some employees whose job are eliminated find
work elsewhere in their companies and many announced staff
reductions never take place because business improves. The
totals also include foreign affiliates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  