-- Aramex CEO Denies Talks on Takeover as Shares Advance Amid Expansion Plans
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-10-06T09:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/aramex-ceo-denies-talks-on-takeover-as-shares-advance-amid-expansion-plans.html
Aramex PJSC , the Middle East’s
biggest courier company, is seeking to expand its business
around the world and is not in talks with any potential buyer,
Chief Executive Officer  Fadi Ghandour  said.  “We are growing. We are expanding. We are going global and
we are not positioning the company to be acquired,” Ghandour
said in a telephone interview today. “We are not in talks with
anyone,” he said in reference to a media report that linked a
rise in the company’s share price to talks between the company
and potential buyers.  The U.A.E.-based courier has a presence in Europe, India,
Singapore, Hong Kong, Europe, and competes with international
logistics and courier companies such as Atlanta-based United
Parcel Service Inc. and Memphis, Tennessee-based FedEx Corp.
The company’s stock price is up 56.3 percent since the beginning
of the year. “The stock was totally undervalued,” Ghandour
said.  “We are not interested in any way, shape or form in
anybody acquiring us,” Ghandour said. Aramex is “constantly
delivering results in an amazing manner during the worst years
of the financial crisis; that’s why it went up not because of
speculation about an acquisition.”  The company’s second-quarter profit increased 10 percent as
freight services grew in Europe and India. Net income rose to 55
million dirhams ($15 million) from 50 million dirhams in the
year-earlier period.  Aramex, founded by Ghandour in 1982, became the first Arab-
based company to trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market in 1997. It
was later taken private by Abraaj Capital Ltd., and then went
public again in 2005, with its shares trading on the Dubai
Financial Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 