-- Asian Stocks Climb to Two-Year High on Outlook for More Central Bank Moves
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-10-06T08:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/asian-stocks-advance-after-u-s-services-expansion-bank-of-japan-s-action.html
Asian  stocks  rose, driving the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index to a two-year high, on speculation more
central banks will act to spur economic growth after the Bank of
Japan cut its benchmark interest rate yesterday.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest mining company,
advanced 2.6 percent in Sydney after oil and metals prices
jumped. Mitsui & Co., which gets most of its profit from
commodities, rose 3.4 percent in Tokyo. Mitsubishi Financial
Group Inc., Japan’s largest bank by market value, and Mitsui
Fudosan Co., the country’s No. 1 property developer by sales,
gained more than 2.5 percent after the Bank of Japan pledged to
keep its target rate at “virtually zero” and expand purchases.  “Investor sentiment has been buoyed by the surprise
decision by the Bank of Japan,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps
manage about $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.
“We’re starting to get a second wave of stimulus measures in
major economies at a time when investors had previously thought
the strength of the global recovery was waning.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 1.6 percent to 129.84 as
of 5:03 p.m. in Tokyo, set for its highest close since August
2008, before the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The
index has climbed 19 percent from this year’s low on May 25,
approaching the 20 percent threshold some investors consider as
the beginning of a bull market, amid signs a U.S. economic
recovery is stabilizing and will support global growth.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  gained 1.8 percent, adding
to yesterday’s 1.5 percent advance after the central bank cut
its overnight interest rate to a range of zero to 0.1 percent
and said it would set up a fund to buy assets.  All Indexes Climb  All major equity indexes in the Asia-Pacific region climbed
where trading was open. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index, South
Korea’s Kospi index and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index all gained
more than 1 percent. China’s markets are closed for a holiday.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.2 percent.
The index rallied 2.1 percent yesterday in New York after the
Institute for Supply Management’s index of  non-manufacturing 
businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the world’s largest
economy, increased to 53.2 in September from 51.5 in August. The
 median forecast  of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a gain to 52. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  Raw-material companies  advanced the most among the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index’s 10 industry groups on speculation demand
for commodities will increase as global economies expand.  BHP Billiton increased 2.6 percent to A$40.53 in Sydney and
was the biggest contributor to the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index ’s
advance. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining
company, increased 2.6 percent to A$78.99.  Commodities Advance  Mitsui rose 3.4 percent to 1,332 yen in Tokyo. In Hong Kong,
 Cnooc Ltd. , China’s largest offshore oil producer, climbed 2.5
percent to HK$16.30.  Crude oil for November delivery increased 1.7 percent
yesterday in New York to $82.82 a barrel. The London Metal
Exchange Index of six industrial metals including copper and
zinc rose 1.6 percent yesterday to its highest level since July
2008. Gold advanced to a record $1,344.35 an ounce today.  The Bank of Japan yesterday cut its benchmark overnight
interest rate target to a range of 0 percent to 0.1 percent, the
lowest level since 2006, from 0.1 percent. Policy makers will
set up a 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) fund to buy assets such as
government bonds, commercial paper, exchange-traded funds and
real-estate-investment trusts.  ‘Monetary Easing Globally’  The package will include about 100 billion yen to help
reduce the nation’s reliance on China for rare-earth metals, and
25 billion yen for Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corp.,
Nikkei English News reported today, without citing anyone.  “The Bank of Japan’s action may accelerate movements
towards monetary easing globally,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , general
manager of the equities division at Tokyo-based Nikko Cordial
Securities Inc. “Confidence grew that the global economy is on
a recovery track, and investors will likely put money back into
risk assets.”  Finance-related shares had the second-biggest gain on the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index , led by Japanese real-estate developers,
on speculation they may draw investments from the BOJ’s fund.  Nomura Real Estate Holdings Inc. surged 9.6 percent to
1,239 yen, the second-biggest increase on the MSCI index of
almost 1,000 companies. Tokyu Land Corp. soared 7.4 percent.
Mitsui Fudosan rose 3.5 percent and Mitsubishi Estate Co.,
Japan’s largest developer by market value, jumped 4.2 percent.  Valuations, Japanese Banks  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has risen 7.8 percent this year
on speculation growth in profit will weather Europe’s debt
crisis, Chinese steps to curb property-price inflation and
concern about the pace of the U.S. economic rebound. Stocks in
the gauge trade at 14.4 times estimated profit on average,
compared with 13.8 times for the S&P 500 and 12 times for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Mitsubishi UFJ  climbed 2.6 percent and Mizuho Financial
Group Inc., Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value, jumped
8.6 percent. They briefly erased gains after a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said Japan’s financial regulator
is considering forcing the country’s largest banks to hold more
capital than required under Basel III rules. The regulator
denied the plans.  NWS Holdings Ltd.  soared 11 percent to HK$18.54 in Hong
Kong, the steepest advance on the MSCI index. The South China
Morning Post said the company hopes to complete at least two
acquisitions including a toll road in mainland China, citing
Executive Director Tsang Yam-pui. NWS had the biggest increase
in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 