-- Dow Climbs to Highest Since Lehman, 30-Year Bond Slides on Fed
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-03T20:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/asia-stocks-climb-to-26-month-high-treasuries-japan-bond-yields-decline.html
The Dow Jones Industrial Average
climbed to a two-year high while Treasury 30-year bonds slid and
the dollar fell as the Federal Reserve planned to expand asset
purchases by an additional $600 billion to shore up the economy.  The Dow rose 26.41 points, or 0.2 percent, to 11,215.13 at
4 p.m. in New York, the highest since the week Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy in September 2008. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.4 percent to a six-month
high of 1,197.96. The 30-year Treasury yield surged 0.12
percentage point, the most in two months, to 4.05 percent. The
Dollar Index, which tracks trading versus six major peers, lost
0.5 percent. Oil reached a six-month high of $84.69 a barrel.  The S&P 500 has rallied 14 percent and the dollar has
slumped at least 3.6 percent against 16 major peers since Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated in August that he may inject
more cash into the world’s largest economy. The Fed said today
its purchases will be about $75 billion a month. The central
bank will also reinvest as much as $300 billion in proceeds
from agency and mortgage debt it holds. Most of the purchases
will be of Treasuries due in 10 years or less.  “The bond market is seeing a bigger reaction given that
people were expecting that more buybacks would be concentrated
in the long-end of the curve,” said  Paul Zemsky , the New York-
based head of asset allocation for ING Investment Management,
which oversees $550 billion. “Nothing in here tells me that we
should be selling stocks.”  Bernanke’s Plan  Bernanke is trying to boost growth after near-zero interest
rates and $1.7 trillion in securities purchases helped pull the
economy out of recession without bringing down joblessness close
to a 26-year high.  A statement from the Fed Bank of New York today said that
including as much as $300 billion of reinvested proceeds from
debt holdings, the central bank will buy a total of $850 billion
to $900 billion of Treasuries by the end of the second quarter.
Eighty percent of the purchases will target bonds coming due in
2 1/2 to 10 years.  Ten-year  Treasury yields slipped two basis points to 2.58
percent after the statement. Two-year yields decreased less than
two basis point to 0.33 percent.  “I would like to see the Federal Reserve articulate step-
by-step what adding $600 billion in additional securities to
their balance sheet, what it accomplishes and how,”  Michael Aronstein , president of Marketfield Asset Management, said
during a Bloomberg Television interview on “Street Smart” with
Carol Massar and Matt Miller. “I understand what they did in the
fourth quarter of 2008, which saved the global economy from a
real meltdown, but as far as incrementally adding reserves at
this point, I’m just not certain how that works.”  Earnings, Election  Stocks have also rallied since the end of August amid
improving earnings and speculation yesterday’s election would
produce a divided Congress that won’t pass further business
reforms.  Republicans gained at least 60 House seats yesterday across
the country, capitalizing on concern that government spending
has increased over the last two years and delivering a rebuke to
the domestic agenda of President  Barack Obama .  The S&P 500 may  rally  as much as 16 percent in the next six
months because the election will stymie legislative initiatives
in Congress, billionaire investor  Kenneth Fisher  said.  ‘Big, Sweeping Actions’  “Markets don’t like big sweeping actions,” said Fisher,
who oversees more than $38 billion at Woodside, California-based
Fisher Investments Inc. “Right now, every politician is
chirping and burping and carrying on. It’s been in the interest
of the Republicans running for office to talk down the economy.
That goes away immediately after the election.”  Reports today showed higher-than-estimated growth in U.S.
service industries and private job growth.  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, rose to 54.3 in October from 53.2 a month earlier. The
median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected the ISM index would rise to 53.5.  Data from ADP Employer Services showed employment increased
by 43,000 last month, above the median estimate of a 20,000 gain
from 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The government
jobs report in two days is forecast to show the unemployment
rate held steady at 9.6 percent in October as the economy added
60,000 jobs.  Dow Leaders  Cisco Systems Inc., Hewlett-Packard Co. and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. rose at least 2 percent to lead gains in 21 of 30 stocks
in the Dow.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. rallied 9.2 percent
today after the insurer reported its biggest profit since 2007
on investment gains. BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money
manager, tumbled 4.3 percent after saying Bank of America Corp.
and PNC Financial Services Group Inc. may reduce their stakes in
the company. EOG Resources Inc. declined 9.3 percent after the
energy producer cut its production forecast.  Earnings have  topped  analysts’ estimates at 78 percent of
the 369 companies in the S&P 500 that have reported results
since Oct. 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net
income has grown 33 percent for the group amid a 9.7 percent
increase in revenue.  The Stoxx Europe 600 erased its earlier advance to fall 0.4
percent, pulling back from the longest stretch of gains since
July. European markets closed before the Fed announcement.
 Societe Generale SA , France’s second-biggest bank, rallied 1.9
percent as earnings more than doubled. Statoil ASA fell 5.4
percent after cutting its output target. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV
lost 3.2 percent as profit missed estimates.  Irish Bonds  Irish 10-year bonds dropped for the seventh straight day,
sending the yield up 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point,
to 7.44 percent on concern that the government will have to pump
more money into Allied Irish Banks Plc, whose subordinated-debt
swaps signal a 63 percent probability of default within the next
five years. The cost of insuring Irish sovereign debt against
default surged to a record, with credit-default swaps rising
36.5 basis points to 554.5, according to CMA, a data provider.  The difference in yield, or spread, between Portuguese 10-
year notes and German bunds, Europe’s benchmark government debt
securities,  widened  11 basis points to 388 basis points. The
Greek-German spread  increased  seven basis points to 840 basis
points.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the euro’s
stability depends on making investors pay for future debt
crises, brushing aside warnings that Germany’s demands are
hurting Europe’s most-indebted countries.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Hong Kong-traded
shares advanced the most among equity indexes worldwide after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the city’s shares have the most to
gain from extra liquidity released by stimulus measures and
China’s economic growth. South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 0.9
percent to the highest level since December 2007 as Deutsche
Bank increased its outlook for the nation’s shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 