-- Asian Investors, Not Funds, First Sellers of Greek Bonds, Citigroup Says
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-06T13:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/asian-investors-first-sellers-of-greek-bonds-citigroup-says.html
Asian long-term investors, and not
hedge funds, were among the first sellers of Greek bonds last
year before the sell-off snowballed to the point the country was
shut out of capital markets, according to Citigroup Inc.  “Contrary to the general belief that London macro funds
started the sell-off, it was actually real money from Asia that
first sold Greek bonds,”  Andrew Morton , the London-based head
of government-bond trading for developed economies, said in an
interview. Asian investors “anticipated the crisis early and
began to lower their holdings before anyone else. The queue then
got longer.”  Greece  was forced to turn to the European Union and
International Monetary Fund in May for a bailout after investors
who doubted the country would be able to finance its debt dumped
its bonds, pushing borrowing costs to a record high.  Some Asian investors have become net buyers of so-called
peripheral bonds in the past few months, Morton said.  “I don’t think it’s necessarily the same specific
investors who sold them a year ago,” he said. “But in
aggregate, we are seeing net buying of peripheral bonds from
Asian buyers.”  Morton said investors should focus in the next 12 months on
how citizens of high-deficit countries, including  Spain , Ireland
and Portugal, respond to spending cuts by their governments.  “As spending cuts are starting to take hold, the main
thing to watch is how well the governments manage their
populations,” said Morton. “It would be interesting to see if
their people continue to sign up for these austerity programs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  