-- Latin America Exiting From Financial Crisis Faster Than Expected, IMF Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-06T13:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/latin-america-exiting-from-financial-crisis-faster-than-expected-imf-says.html
Latin America is exiting from the
global financial crisis faster than anticipated, and should use
the opportunity to boost fiscal savings that can slow inflation
and prevent overheating, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The IMF, in its World Economic Outlook published today,
raised to 5.7 percent its forecast for economic growth in Latin
America and the Caribbean this year. Next year, growth should
slow to 4 percent. In July, the IMF forecast a regional
expansion of 4.8 percent this year and 4 percent in 2011.  “Given policy challenges arising from strong and
persistent capital inflows in some economies, fiscal tools are
likely better options to deal with overheating pressures than
monetary tools,” the IMF said.  Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Peru should see a “robust”
recovery surpassing regional trends as a result of improvements
in economic policies over the past two decades, easy access to
external financing and strong commodity prices, the IMF said.  Economic growth in Brazil will reach 7.5 percent this year
before slowing to 4.1 percent next year, the IMF said. In July,
the IMF said Latin America’s biggest economy would expand 7.1
percent this year.  Peru’s economy should expand 8.3 percent this year, the
fastest among the region’s major economies, surpassed only by an
expected 8.5 percent expansion in Uruguay and 9 percent growth
in Paraguay. Argentina, the region’s second-biggest economy,
should reach 7.5 percent growth, the IMF said.  2011, Caribbean  In 2011, economic growth in Latin America and the Caribbean
should slow to 4 percent, led by 6 percent growth in both Chile
and Colombia. The two economies are expected to expand 5 percent
and 4.7 percent this year respectively.  Mexico  is experiencing a “steady recovery” though it
faces larger risks than commodity producers in South America
because of its stronger  trade  links to the U.S., the IMF said.
With 80 percent of its financial system’s assets owned by global
banks, Mexico may also see higher capital charges arising from
global financial regulatory reform, the IMF said.  After an estimated 6.5 percent contraction last year,
Mexico’s economy should expand 5 percent this year and 3.9
percent in 2011, the IMF said. In July, the IMF estimated growth
of 4.5 percent this year and 4.4 percent in 2011 for Mexico.  Venezuela , the only country in the region still in
recession, will continue to be constrained by “severe supply
bottlenecks” and a “weak policy framework,” the IMF said. The
country’s economy is expected to shrink 1.3 percent this year
before returning to growth of 0.5 percent in 2011.  A slow recovery of tourism, remittances sent by immigrants
and high debt burdens should subdue growth in most Caribbean
countries. Growth in the Caribbean should average 2.4 percent
this year, and 3.7 percent in 2011, below the rest of Latin
America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 Jgoodman19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 Jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 