-- DAX Benchmark Climbs; ThyssenKrupp, Lufthansa Shares Advance in Frankfurt
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-06T16:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/aurubis-bmw-elringklinger-volkswagen-may-move-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks increased for a second
day amid speculation central banks globally will work to boost
the economic recovery following the Bank of Japan’s actions.  ThyssenKrupp AG  rose 1.8 percent after anticipating a
pretax profit of about 1 billion euros ($1.39 billion) in the
fiscal year through September.  CENTROTEC Sustainable AG  climbed
6.2 percent as it lifted its earnings forecast.  ElringKlinger AG 
sank 6.5 percent after selling new shares.  Infineon Technologies
AG  lost 1.2 percent following technology shares lower in Europe.  The  DAX index  gained 54.90, or 0.9 percent, to 6,270.73 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The measure rallied 4.4
percent in the third quarter on speculation the Federal Reserve
and other central banks will step in to provide more stimulus
for the ailing global recovery. The broader HDAX Index gained
0.8 percent today.  “The surprising decision by the BoJ to scale up asset
purchases boosted expectations that other central banks may
follow,” Stefan Kolek, a Munich-based strategist at UniCredit
SpA, said in a note. “The short-term reaction to the steps was
positive, with risky markets rallying.” However, he noted that
“scaling up asset purchases does represent de facto an
acknowledgement that stimulus policies did not work because
consumers and companies are still worried about the future.”  ????  The unexpected decision by the Japanese central bank
yesterday to drop its interest rate to “virtually zero” and
expand its balance sheet follows the U.S. Federal Reserve’s move
toward more unconventional easing. Bank of England officials
will consider further stimulus tomorrow, while the central banks
of Australia, Canada and New Zealand are among those now holding
fire on further interest-rate increases.  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans
said the central bank needs to do “much more” to help the
economy, including a new round of Treasury security purchases
and possibly declaring that inflation should rise beyond an
informal 2 percent target, the Wall Street Journal reported
yesterday.  Gold rose to a record in London and New York, and silver
extended gains to a 30-year high today.  A report by the Economy Ministry in Berlin showed today
that German factory orders increased almost four times the pace
economists forecast in August, led by demand for investment
goods such as machinery.  European Stocks  European stocks trimmed their advance after data from a
private report on payrolls showed companies in the U.S.
unexpectedly cut workers in September.  ThyssenKrupp gained 1.8 percent to 24.93 euros. The
steelmaker anticipates a pretax profit of about 1 billion euros
in the fiscal year through September, Handelsblatt reported,
citing Chief Executive Officer Ekkehard Schulz.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  increased 2.1 percent to 14.04 euros
as European airlines advanced, following EasyJet Plc after
Europe’s second-biggest discount airline said full-year profit
beat its forecasts on surging demand for flights to beach
resorts and European cities and lower-than-expected losses from
the Icelandic ash cloud.  HeidelbergCement AG, the world’s third-largest cement
maker, advanced 2.7 percent to 37.16 euros, tracking gains in
construction stocks in Europe.  Volkswagen  Volkswagen AG  gained 1.2 percent to 84.95 euros. The
carmaker plans to double the number of dealers in China to about
2,600 in the coming years, Handelsblatt reported, citing sales
chief  Christian Klingler .  Volkswagen, which anticipates record vehicle deliveries
this year, is targeting 2 million car sales in China next year,
the newspaper said.  CENTROTEC Sustainable advanced 6.2 percent to 15.18 euros.
The company raised its earnings forecast, saying it now expects
full-year earnings before interest and taxes of 36 million euros
to 37 million euros, having forecast 30 million euros to 32
million euros earlier.  ElringKlinger plummeted 6.5 percent to 22.39 euros. The
company issued 5.76 million new shares without subscription
rights at a price of 21.50 euros each mainly to finance its
growth.  Shares of chipmaker Infineon declined 1.2 percent to 5.08
euros as technology shares were the worst performers in Europe,
led by Autonomy Corp. after the U.K.’s second-largest software
company cut its forecast for full-year revenue growth.  Q-Cells SE  dropped 5.6 percent to 3.7 euros. Nomura
International Plc trimmed its price estimate on the solar
company to 4.50 euros from 6.50 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 