-- Australians Must Save to Cut Banks Overseas Funding Needs, NAB, ANZ Say
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-10-06T06:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/australians-must-increase-savings-to-cut-bank-funding-needs-nab-anz-say.html
Australians must save more to cut the
reliance on overseas fundraising by domestic banks, said the
chairmen of  National Australia Bank Ltd.  and  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.   “This is a huge issue,” National Australia Bank Chairman
 Michael Chaney  said at a conference in Sydney today. “The banks
are funding Australia’s current-account deficit.”  ANZ Bank Chairman  John Morschel  told the same conference
that higher savings are the “only way out of this particular
problem.” The current-account deficit -- the shortfall on goods,
services and investment -- was A$5.64 billion ($5.5 billion) in
the three months through June, meaning Australia has to borrow
that amount overseas to pay for the goods and services it
imports, and to finance investment not covered by local savings.  Chaney, chairman of Australia’s fourth-biggest bank by
market value since 2005, said encouraging local businesses to
raise funds through bond sales, rather than loans, would also
help alleviate the risk to banks and Australia posed by
overreliance on overseas funding. Non-bank issuers account for 6
percent of Australia’s total outstanding long-term domestic
bonds, according to Standard & Poor’s.  The country’s four biggest banks, led by Commonwealth Bank
of Australia and Westpac Banking Corp., need to sell as much as
A$150 billion of long-term bonds annually to fund their lending
businesses, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  To buoy demand for corporate bonds, Australia’s tax system
needs to be changed to make it more attractive for investors to
buy debt instead of equities, said Morschel, who became chairman
of Melbourne-based ANZ Bank this year.  “The whole tax issue needs to be more thoroughly dealt
with,” he said. “You have to create an environment in which
people are prepared to invest and then you have to ensure
there’s a market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  