-- Australian Oil Spills `Inevitable,' Report on Shen Neng 1 Grounding Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-06T03:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/australian-oil-spills-inevitable-report-on-shen-neng-1-grounding-says.html
Future oil spills off the coast of
Australia’s Queensland state are “inevitable” as ship traffic
increases, according to a report analyzing the April grounding
of a Chinese coal carrier on the Great Barrier Reef.  The incident involving the vessel Shen Neng 1 “highlights
the vulnerability of Queensland’s coastline to a significant oil
spill,” the  report  released today by the state government shows.
More shipping and “the continued likelihood of severe climatic
events suggests that the threat of marine oil spills will remain
and that future oil spills are inevitable.”  The study, by consultant Graham Miller, concluded that the
response was “well resourced and executed.”  The Shen Neng 1, which strayed into the Douglas Shoal
carrying 68,000 metric tons of coal and 975 tons of fuel oil,
was towed out of Australian waters at the end of May. The ship
was on its way to China from the Queensland port at Gladstone.  The state government said it plans to conduct an exercise
next month testing whether agencies are ready to respond to a
spill in a remote area off the coast of northern Queensland and
to examine new technologies aimed at improving communication.  The review by the consultant confirms that the incident was
handled effectively, state Transport Minister  Rachel Nolan  said
in a statement today. Queensland staff had learned lessons from
the Pacific Adventurer spill in 2009, the report said.  While the 2010 grounding caused damage to the coral reef,
“only a relatively small amount of heavy fuel oil,” about 3
tons to 4 tons, spilled into the sea, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 