-- Lazard Hires Three Managing Directors, Including Jim Rossman in New York
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2010-10-06T16:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/lazard-hires-jim-rossman-as-managing-director-new-york-two-more-for-paris.html
Lazard Ltd. , the biggest non-bank
merger adviser, said it hired  Jim Rossman , who previously worked
at the firm, as a managing director in New York and two managing
directors in Paris.  Rossman , 47, who was head of equity capital markets at
Lazard from 2003 to 2005, will be a managing director in the
power, energy and infrastructure investment-banking group, the
Hamilton, Bermuda-based company said today in a statement.  Francois Kayat , 48, and  Pierre Tattevin , 53, will be
managing directors in Paris, according to a separate statement.  Kayat most recently was managing director and head of
investment banking at Credit Agricole CIB, formerly known as
Calyon. Prior to that, he worked at Kleinwort Benson Group PLC
and then at  Credit Suisse AG , where he was chairman of mergers
and acquisitions in Europe.  Tattevin previously was managing director at Rothschild &
Cie Banque and worked in the firm’s M&A businesses. He moved to
Rothschild in 2000 after working at Lazard, which he joined in
1982 and where he was named a managing director in 1995.  Rossman will focus on Lazard’s alternative energy efforts,
the statement said. He previously was with Macquarie Group Ltd,
where he was a senior managing director and head of U.S. equity
capital markets, and HSBC Holdings Plc, where he was head of
equity capital markets for the Americas and Latin America
corporate banking, according to the statement.  Rossman began his career at the law firm of Cleary,
Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton, where he worked in New York and
Brussels offices on securities offerings, debt restructurings
and M&A, the statement said.  He has advised companies and investors on deals involving
wind and solar energy and electric vehicles and batteries in
North America and Asia, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Henry  in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alec D.B. McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net  