-- BOE May Back Off Stimulus Exit as U.K. Economy Stumbles
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-10-07T07:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/bank-of-england-may-step-away-from-stimulus-exit-as-u-k-economy-stumbles.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
is getting pushed back toward the printing presses as central
banks in the U.S. and Japan turn their focus on more bond
purchases to defend the global recovery.  King is battling to keep the economy from sliding back into
recession as Prime Minister  David Cameron  prepares the biggest
public-spending squeeze since World War II. Pressure to do more
is building after the Federal Reserve signalled in the past two
weeks it may buy more assets to bolster U.S. growth, while the
Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 pledged further purchases.  “The debate has been shifting toward the argument in favor
of loosening, and it’s likely we’ll see another step in that
direction at this meeting,” said  Jonathan Loynes , chief
European economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “When
we see the gory details of the spending cuts it may knock
confidence and that increases pressure on policy makers.”  The danger for the Bank of England is that more easing by
U.S. and Japanese authorities may strengthen the pound relative
to their currencies, further undermining the recovery. The pound
has already risen 10 percent against the dollar since falling to
a 14-month low in May. Adding to evidence of an economic
slowdown, mortgage lender Halifax said today that U.K. house
prices dropped in September by the most since at least 1983.  The pound fell to 88.05 pence per euro after the report,
the lowest since May. Against the dollar it dropped 0.3 percent
to $1.5869.  Split?  Policy makers have held their  bond-purchase plan  at 200
billion pounds ($318 billion) since February and the benchmark
interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent since March 2009.
All but one of 36 economists in a Bloomberg News survey expect
no change in the target for asset purchases today, and all 60 in
a separate poll see no change in the key rate.  The bank will announce the decision at noon in London and
minutes of the decision will be published Oct. 20.  The European Central Bank will also keep its rate at 1
percent, another survey shows. It will announce its decision in
Frankfurt 45 minutes after the Bank of England.  A three-way split may emerge on the U.K. central bank’s
nine-member panel today, with  Adam Posen  arguing more action is
needed to save the economy from permanent damage. That clashes
with calls from his colleague  Andrew Sentance  for the bank to
raise the  benchmark interest rate  to tame inflation that’s held
above the 2 percent target since December.  Housing Plunge?  The spending cuts, which will be detailed by Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  on Oct. 20, may hurt a recovery
that’s already showing signs of  cooling  from the fastest pace in
nine years in the second quarter. U.K. house prices fell 3.6
percent in September from a month earlier, Halifax said,
 Manufacturing  grew the slowest in 10 months in September and
 jobless claims  rose for the first time in seven months in
August.  Posen said on Sept. 28 that “subject to further debate, I
think further easing should be undertaken” by purchases of
gilts with newly created money. Officials should “not settle
for weak growth out of misplaced fear of inflation.” The
Institute of Directors and British Chambers of Commerce, two
London-based business lobbies, backed the call.  “There is a chance that Posen might be able to secure a
majority to vote with him on QE,” former policy maker  David Blanchflower  wrote in an article for the New Statesman. “But
more likely is that the MPC will agree to an additional 50
billion pounds worth of asset purchases at its November meeting,
when it will produce its latest forecast.”  ‘Virtually Zero’  Other central banks are already moving toward looser
policy. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4 the bank’s
first round of large-scale asset purchases improved the economy
and that further buying may help more. The Bank of Japan this
week cut the benchmark overnight interest rate and pledged to
hold it at “virtually zero” until deflation risks subside.  “If it becomes clear that we expect a negative quarter of
growth, or close to zero, that may be the trigger for the BOE to
do more,” said  Hetal Mehta , an economist at Daiwa Capital
Markets Europe Ltd. in London and a former U.K. Treasury
official. “You could argue that with inflation where it is, the
BOE could consider increasing interest rates were it not for the
spending cuts.”  Consumer prices  rose an annual 3.1 percent in August, above
the government’s 3 percent upper limit. King said in August
price growth will slow to “close to, or a little below” the 2
percent target in the medium term.  Higher Rates?  Sentance has argued that the recovery is strong enough to
withstand higher interest rates, though none of his colleagues
on the panel have so far joined his push.  Economists including  Simon Ward , an economist at Henderson
Global Investors in London, say the government’s plan to
increase value-added tax in January may help keep inflation
above the bank’s goal.  “I’m not predicting more quantitative easing because the
short-term inflation outlook has deteriorated,” he said.
“There will be a three-way split. It’s unlikely Posen would
come out with the view he had unless he’s confident of getting
some support.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  