-- Bank of England Should Raise Bond-Purchase Plan by $79 Billion, BCC Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/bank-of-england-should-raise-bond-purchase-plan-by-79-billion-bcc-says.html
The Bank of England should increase
its emergency bond-purchase plan by 50 billion pounds ($79
billion) by the end of the year to aid the economic recovery,
the British Chambers of Commerce said.  The Monetary Policy Committee should also signal that the
 benchmark interest rate  will remain “at very low levels for an
extended period,” the London-based lobby group’s chief
economist,  David Kern , said in an e-mailed statement. The bank
will today keep the stimulus plan at 200 billion pounds and key
rate at 0.5 percent,  Bloomberg News  surveys of economists show.  “Given the serious risks of an economic setback, which
will worsen when value-added tax goes up next year and austerity
measures are implemented more forcefully, we hope that the MPC
will seriously consider the option of increasing” its stimulus
program, Kern said in the statement. Expanding stimulus “will
reduce the dangers of a new recession.”  Britons are bracing themselves for the deepest spending
cuts since World War II, while recent data showed the economic
recovery has started to falter. An index of U.K. manufacturing
fell to a 10-month low in September, while jobless claims
increased in August for the first time in seven months. The
central bank will announce its decision at noon in London.  “The committee must also signal that interest rates will
remain at very low levels for an extended period,” Kern added.
“British business will find it difficult to drive the recovery
without such reassurance, and it is important to remember that
continued uncertainties can damage confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  