-- Basel Capital Rules Need Support From U.S., EU's Barnier Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-10-07T12:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/basel-capital-rules-for-banks-need-support-from-u-s-eu-s-barnier-says.html
Banks in the European Union risk
being left at a disadvantage if the U.S. fails to adopt global
capital rules, the region’s financial-services chief said.  Michel Barnier , the European Union financial services
commissioner, said he’s seeking a “level playing field” in the
way countries including the U.S. implement changes proposed by
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  last month.  “I will raise this question during my visit to the U.S. at
the end of this month,” Barnier told the European Parliament in
Brussels yesterday. He said he’ll be “vigilant” to the way
non-EU nations “implement in due time” the reform. Lawmakers
at the assembly said they’re also “very much concerned” about
the threat to EU banks, in approving a report on the Basel plan.  The Basel committee of central bankers and regulators last
month agreed to more than double capital requirements for
lenders after European governments spent $5.3 trillion bailing
out their banks amid the worst financial crisis in 70 years.
They also said banks should hold an additional buffer of
capital, above this minimum, and those that fail to do so should
be banned from paying dividends.  The U.S. still hasn’t fully implemented the 2004 capital
measures, known as Basel II, adopted by most European countries
three years later. A repeat performance may mean European banks
are told to abide by tougher rules than their U.S. counterparts.  The EU Parliament echoed Barnier’s call for the U.S. to
adopt the Basel rules. The lawmakers approved their report on
Basel today after discussing the measures with the commissioner.  ‘Vexatious Tendency’  “Non-EU countries, and I’m thinking of the USA, have a
vexatious tendency to make value judgments on how we work while
they themselves do not implement the provisions that they should
enact,” said  Jean-Paul Gauzes , a French member of the
Parliament yesterday. “It is essential that European companies
are given a level playing field and not penalized compared to
U.S. companies.”  Barnier said the European Commission, the EU’s Brussels-
based executive body, will propose measures to turn the Basel
accord into EU law “in the first quarter of 2011.” The Basel
committee said the rules should be fully implemented by Jan. 1,
2019.  “We shouldn’t just allow the Americans to influence the
Basel agenda and then not implement it at the end of the day,”
said  Wolf Klinz , a German member of the Parliament.  The U.S. enactment of the latest Basel rules may be
complicated by a ban on regulators relying on external credit
ratings in their rule-making. The  Dodd-Frank Act , signed by
President  Barack Obama  in July, requires regulators to remove
references to credit ratings of securities from their rules.  “Thanks to the Dodd-Frank Act the U.S. are having problems
with implementation,” Austrian lawmaker  Othmar Karas , who
drafted the Parliament’s report, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrundsen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 