-- Bernanke Counters Fed Unity Doubt as Regional Chiefs Echo Views
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-10-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/bernanke-counters-fed-unity-doubt-as-regional-chiefs-echo-economic-message.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is leaving little doubt that he has enough support for
more unconventional easing as soon as November.  In one week, New York Fed President  William Dudley , the
Boston Fed’s  Eric Rosengren  and Chicago’s  Charles Evans 
advocated further Fed action. Bernanke himself said Oct. 4 that
restarting large-scale asset purchases would probably spur
growth, after saying last week that the central bank has a duty
to aid the economy as U.S. unemployment holds near 10 percent.  Their remarks have overshadowed opposition from policy
makers such as Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser , helping the Fed
bring down borrowing costs as traders incorporate their
expectations into the price of securities, said  Michael Feroli ,
chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. Two-
year Treasury yields this week fell to a record 0.3987 percent.  “The consensus is starting to form around more asset
purchases,” Feroli said. “Bernanke doesn’t mind that there’s
open public debate, but when the majority does come to a view,
he wants the public and the markets to understand what that view
is so that the public and the markets can price that in.”  Dudley, vice chairman of the Fed’s policy-setting Open
Market Committee and the only regional president with a
permanent vote, said Oct. 1 that the outlook for U.S. job growth
and inflation is “unacceptable” and that “further action is
likely to be warranted unless the economic outlook evolves in a
way that makes me more confident.”  ‘Strong Signal’  Dudley’s speech was “a strong signal” that the FOMC will
restart asset purchases at its next meeting on Nov. 2-3, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. economist  Edward McKelvey  said in a report this
week.  “As vice chairman of the FOMC, he is one of the three most
senior members of the committee,” McKelvey wrote. “He would be
highly unlikely to give a speech of this significance without
the concurrence of Chairman Bernanke and probably other key
members.”  While that doesn’t mean that all the members of the panel
are in agreement, “it does strongly suggest that there is
sufficient support for additional asset purchases to make it a
serious option at the next meeting.”  Michelle Smith , a Fed spokeswoman, declined to comment. The
FOMC has 12 members who vote at policy meetings in any given
year: seven Washington-based Fed governors, the New York Fed
president, and four of the 11 other regional bank presidents.
There is one vacancy on the board.  Rate Near Zero  The Fed cut its  benchmark interest rate  almost to zero at
the height of the financial crisis in December 2008 and turned
to asset purchases to bring down long-term borrowing costs,
eventually buying $1.7 trillion of mortgage-backed securities,
agency debt and Treasuries. The purchases ended in March, and
the Fed began to lay plans to exit from its unprecedented
intervention.  In August, the central bank surprised investors by
announcing it would keep its securities holdings unchanged at
$2.05 trillion by reinvesting proceeds from mortgage debt into
Treasuries, putting the exit on hold.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  tumbled 7.1 percent during
the two weeks following the statement on concern the recovery
would falter.  At its next meeting on Sept. 21, the FOMC said it was
prepared to ease policy “if needed” to spur growth and achieve
its dual mandate of stable prices and full employment.  ‘A Little Worrisome’  “If we assume they’re going to move in November, they’ve
certainly prepped the market more fully and completely than they
did in August,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “It was a
little worrisome that it was so abrupt and suggested maybe
something dire was going on.”  Additional securities purchases are “partially priced in
already,” said  Ira Jersey , an interest-rate strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York. “The Federal Reserve is
feeling the economy is not strong enough and that they need to
give it a boost.”  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note traded near a five-
week low yesterday, touching 2.43 percent. Jersey predicts it
will drop to 2.25 percent by year-end as the Fed buys more
securities.  Lowering long-term interest rates by restarting purchases
of Treasuries or mortgage debt would have a “significant”
effect on the economy by supporting the value of homes and
stocks, making housing and refinancing mortgages more affordable
and reducing the cost of capital for businesses, Dudley said
last week.  $500 Billion  Buying about $500 billion of securities, for example, would
add as much stimulus as reducing the Fed’s benchmark rate 0.5
percentage point to 0.75 percentage point, depending on how long
investors expect the Fed to hold the assets, according to
Dudley.  Brian Sack , head of the New York Fed’s markets desk, echoed
Dudley’s remarks in an Oct. 4 speech in Newport Beach,
California. Expanding the balance sheet would “likely provide
additional accommodation” and help stimulate a recovery that’s
forecast to be “relatively tepid,” he said.  “The one side that we hear is very bearish,” said  Gregory Habeeb , who manages $8.5 billion in fixed-income assets at
Calvert Asset Management Co. in Bethesda, Maryland. Bernanke is
“the one who commands the most attention, and he’s giving the
one side.”  Positive Reports  Positive economic reports could still dissuade policy
makers from opting to ease further, said  Robert Dye , a senior
economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh.  “I would agree that the likelihood of that occurring has
increased, but I would stop there and say it is not a certainty
yet,” Dye said. He sees a 60 percent chance the Fed will decide
to expand the balance sheet in November.  “It’s going to depend on economic conditions, and if we
start to get significantly better data they might decide to hold
off,” he said.  Habeeb said the Fed may end up hurting the recovery, not
helping, by reinforcing a negative view of the economy that
damages business and consumer confidence.  Some regional Fed chiefs have spoken out against more
action by the central bank.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said Oct. 1 that it’s
“not clear that conditions warrant further crisis-like
deployment of the Fed’s arsenal.”  The Philadelphia Fed’s Plosser said Sept. 29 that he
doesn’t see how additional asset purchases will help employment
in the near term, and  Narayana Kocherlakota  of Minneapolis said
it would probably have a “more muted effect” than the
purchases that ended in March. None of the three has a vote on
the FOMC this year.  That leaves Kansas City’s  Thomas Hoenig , who has already
dissented six straight times because he “believed that
continuing to express the expectation of exceptionally low
levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period was no
longer warranted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  