-- Bogdanka Jumps to Record on New World Resources Bid for Polish Coal Mine
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-10-06T13:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/bogdanka-jumps-to-record-on-new-world-resources-bid-for-polish-coal-mine.html
Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA , Poland’s
only publicly traded coal mine, rallied to a record after New
World Resources NV of the Czech Republic offered to buy the
company for 3.43 billion zloty ($1.2 billion).  Bogdanka , the formerly state-owned company that went public
last year, surged 20 percent to 107 zloty at 2:49 p.m. in
Warsaw, exceeding NWR’s offer of 100.75 zloty per share.  “The move in Bogdanka’s shares today shows that investors
expect NWR to improve its bid,” Szymon Borawski-Reks, who helps
manage the equivalent of $3.5 billion at Bank Zachodni WBK SA’s
mutual fund in Poznan, said by phone. “It’s still too early to
say what we’ll do with our shares.” Zachodni funds held 1.9
percent of Bogdanka as of June 30,  Bloomberg data  show.  NWR bid for all shares in Bogdanka yesterday, at a 13
percent premium to the Oct. 5 closing price. NWR, which sells
coal to steelmakers and power plants, is looking to Poland,
which gets 90 percent of its electricity from the fuel, to
expand reserves as coal prices recover. NWR customers include
the Czech unit of ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steel
producer.  NWR jumped 3.9 percent to 218.5 koruna in Prague trade.  “NWR will have to increase its bid to take over
Bogdanka,”  Klaus Kueng , a Vienna-based analyst at Raiffeisen
Centrobank AG said by phone.  Joe Cook , a spokesmen for NWR, had no immediate comment
when reached by Bloomberg News.  Pension Funds  Four Polish pension funds, including Aviva Plc and ING
Groep NV units, own 39 percent of  Bogdanka , according to
Bloomberg data.  Marcin Zoltek , chief investment officer at Aviva
PTE SA, and  Grzegorz Chlopek , deputy head of ING PTE SA fund,
declined to comment when contacted by phone.  Bogdanka sold shares last year in an initial public
offering at 48 zloty apiece to raise funds for expansion in the
domestic market. The government sold more Bogdanka shares at
70.5 zloty apiece earlier this year.  The company forecasts 2010 net income of 201 million zloty
on sales of 1.23 billion zloty, it said on Sept. 30. Bogdanka
plans to double coal production by 2014, raising its share in
Poland’s hard-coal market to 12 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  