-- Bovespa Falls for Second Straight Day on Metal Price Concern; Real Drops
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-10-07T20:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/bovespa-stock-index-futures-gain-as-metals-rally-on-central-bank-outlook.html
Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index dropped
for a second day, led by metals and oil producers, as commodity
prices declined and Deutsche Bank AG said lower domestic steel
prices may crimp earnings for producers.  Gerdau SA  and Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA,
Brazil’s biggest steelmakers, sank more than 1.4 percent after
Deutsche Bank stripped them of their “buy” ratings.  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, sank as
crude dropped and the company said yesterday it will miss its
domestic output target for the year.  Light SA , Brazil’s second-
biggest electricity distributor, jumped after Cia. Energetica de
Minas Gerais said it may increase its stake in the company.  “We’ve gone up a lot lately, even though economies abroad
are still weak,” said  Felipe Casotti , who helps manage the
equivalent of $346 million in assets at Maxima Asset Management
in Rio de Janeiro. “We may see a pullback soon.”  The Bovespa dropped 0.9 percent to 69,918.40. Two stocks
fell on the index for every one that rose. The  BM&FBovespa Small
Cap index  slipped 0.2 percent to 1,379.75. The real slipped 0.1
percent to 1.6810 per dollar.  Copper prices fell the most in 11 weeks on concern that
this week’s rally to a 27-month high was overdone. Gerdau SA and
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA were cut to “hold” at
Deutsche Bank.  ‘Price Discounts’  The downgrades are based on the “strong price discounts
that are currently offered in order to fight the very high level
of steel imports” in Brazil,  Rodrigo Barros , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank in Sao Paulo, wrote in a report published
yesterday. “In the particular case of flat steel, imports
reached 28 percent of the apparent steel consumption in
August,” he wrote.  Gerdau fell 1.4 percent to 21.79 reais. Usiminas dropped
2.6 percent to 21.53 reais.  Petrobras plunged 2.2 percent to 25.30 reais. The stock
sank yesterday after Barclays Plc joined  Itau Unibanco Holding
SA  in cutting its rating on the stock, saying low oil prices may
force Brazil’s state-controlled crude producer to sell more
shares.  Consumer prices as measured by the benchmark IPCA index
rose 0.45 percent in September from August, the government’s
statistics agency said. Prices rose 4.70 percent from a year
earlier. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast monthly
inflation of 0.46 percent and an annual rate of 4.72 percent.  Selic Rate  After raising interest rates 200 basis points this year,
the central bank held its benchmark Selic rate unchanged at
10.75 percent on Sept. 1, saying this was adequate to keep
inflation on target. The central bank will see today’s figure as
confirmation of its view that short-term inflation is being
driven by a temporary surge in food prices, said  Solange Srour ,
chief economist in Rio de Janeiro at BNY Mellon ARX.  Light gained 0.9 percent to 22.15 reais. Cia. Energetica de
Minas Gerais said Enlighted Partners Venture Capital LLC decided
to exercise a put option to sell Cemig’s stake in Light.  Cemig, based in Belo Horizonte, Brazil, said on March 24 it
had the option to buy 19.9 million voting shares, or an
additional 9.75 percent stake in Light through Newark, Delaware-
based Luce Investment Fund. Cemig said in March it may pay
$340.5 million for the stake. The conclusion of the deal is
subject to certain conditions, Cemig said in a regulatory filing
today. Cemig rose 0.1 percent to 28.15 reais.  The  Bovespa  index trades for 10.4 times analysts’ 2011
earnings estimates, compared with 10.9 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index and 13.9 times for Mexico’s IPC index,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bovespa
trades at 15.6 times the reported profits of its companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  