-- Low Estimate of BP Spill Hindered Bid to Plug Well, Report Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-10-06T21:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/bp-well-s-plugging-was-hindered-by-inaccurate-estimate-of-flow-panel-says.html
The Obama administration’s inaccurate
estimates of the amount of oil gushing from  BP Plc ’s Gulf of
Mexico well undermined public confidence in the government
response and may have hindered efforts to staunch the flow, the
staff of a presidential commission on the spill said.  The administration initially underestimated the flow from
BP’s Macondo well 5,000 feet under the surface after it blew out
April 20, according to a staff working paper for the commission
released today. Shortly after oil began gushing from the seabed,
the White House blocked the release of worst-case government
estimates of the spill rate, according to the report.  The  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
“wanted to make public some of its long-term, worst-case
discharge models for the Deepwater Horizon spill, and requested
approval to do so from the White House’s Office of Management
and Budget,” according to the staff paper. “The Office of
Management and Budget denied NOAA’s request.”  The Deepwater Horizon drilling  rig  leased by BP from
 Transocean Ltd.  exploded and sank in April, releasing more than
4 million barrels of oil into the Gulf before the well was
capped July 15. Poor estimates of the initial flow rate, coupled
with a later report that may have understated the oil remaining
in the Gulf damaged public confidence in Washington’s ability to
respond the disaster, the staff said.  ‘Not Fully Candid’  “By initially underestimating the amount of oil flow and
then, at the end of the summer, appearing to underestimate the
amount of oil remaining in the Gulf, the federal government
created the impression that it was either not fully competent to
handle the spill or not fully candid with the American people
about the scope of the problem,” according to the staff paper.  The paper was prepared for the  National Commission on the
BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling , a panel
formed by President  Barack Obama  to investigate the spill. The
panel is headed by Republican  William Reilly , former
administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and  Bob Graham , a former Democratic senator from Florida.  Administration Response  Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  and  Thad Allen , a retired
Coast Guard admiral who led the government’s response to the
spill, were clear about the potential worst-case scenario,
 Jeffrey Zients , acting director of the Office of Management and
Budget, and NOAA Administrator  Jane Lubchenco  said today in a
statement.  “In early May, Secretary Salazar and Admiral Thad Allen
told the American people that the worst-case scenario could be
more than 100,000 barrels a day,” Zients and Lubchenco said in
the joint statement. “In addition, BP reported in 2009 that a
blowout of the Deepwater Horizon could yield 162,000 barrels of
oil a day.”  The 162,000 barrel-a-day figure was part of BP’s original
drilling permit. The number was discounted by Coast Guard
officials who told the commission it wasn’t “a credible worst-
case estimate,” according to the staff paper.  The report also found that inaccurate flow-rate numbers
“may have hindered the subsea efforts to stop and to contain
the flow of oil.” That question will be considered in a later
staff paper.  1,000-Barrel Estimate  Days after the explosion, the U.S. Coast Guard said the
well was leaking 1,000 to 5,000 barrels a day, far less than a
later government estimate of 62,000 barrels a day. The Coast
Guard soon stopped using those figures in public. It never
disclosed the worst-case spill scenario it was operating under,
the paper said.  While government officials have said the initial low
estimates of the spill didn’t affect their response, the
resulting loss of public trust “is not an incidental public
relations problem,” the staff said in the report.  “One of the really significant sources of public
discontent and distrust, I think, of the whole response was the
rapidly changing numbers on this spill coming out of the
government,” Reilly said at a Sept. 27 commission hearing in
Washington. “Public trust and confidence in so many aspects of
the response is really vital to get that right next time.”  Fate of Oil  The staff paper recommends policies to ensure the
government uses “appropriate” science experts to calculate the
rate of future spills and to encourage the disclosure of worst-
case scenarios.  The paper also challenges an Aug. 4 government report that
said about 74 percent of the spilled oil had been eliminated or
would soon be eaten by bacteria. The report failed to disclose
the formulas used to reach its conclusions or to explain what
actually happened to the oil. Independent scientists said the
report presented a “misleading, optimistic picture” and
offered uncertain information as fact, according to the report.  “An important question for the commission is whether that
document or associated statements by administration officials
created a misleading impression that the ‘fate of the oil’ was
clear, and that a large majority of the oil was ‘gone,’” the
staff said in the paper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in Washington at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 