-- BR Malls, Grupo Modelo, Petrobras: Latin America Equity Preview
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-10-06T09:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/br-malls-grupo-modelo-petrobras-latin-america-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Latin American trading. Stock symbols
are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous close.  The  MSCI Latin America Index  rose 1.3 percent to 4,501.76.
In Brazil, preferred shares usually are the most-traded class of
stock.  Brazil  BR Malls Participacoes SA  (BRML3 BS): Brazil’s biggest
owner of shopping malls was raised to BB from BB- by Fitch
Ratings. The outlook is stable, Fitch said in a statement today.
BR Malls rose 2.8 percent to 14.70 reais.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  (PETR4 BS): The company’s American
depositary receipts were cut to “equalweight” from “overweight”
at Barclays Capital, which cited the “dilutive effects” of its
recent share offering.  Separately, the National Petroleum Agency said in a posting
on its website that Petrobras, as Brazilian state-controlled oil
company is known, discovered oil in an offshore well in the
Caratinga block of the Campos Basin. Petrobras declined 1.5
percent to 26.98 reais.  Mexico  Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB  (FEMSAUBD MM): The stock was
cut to “hold” from “buy” at Banco Santander SA by analysts
including  Luis Miranda . The brokerage also raised the rating for
 Coca-Cola Femsa SAB  (KOFL MM) to “buy” from “hold,” according to
a report today. Fomento Economico Mexicano, also known as Femsa,
retreated 0.2 percent to 64.46 pesos. Coca-Cola Femsa gained 1.5
percent to 100.22 pesos.  Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB  (GFNORTEO MM): Mexico’s
central bank will raise its benchmark interest rate in August
2011, according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit. Banorte, as the Mexican bank is
known, fell 0.4 percent to 49 pesos.  Grupo Modelo SAB de CV  (GMODELOC MM): The beverage maker
had its rating cut to “hold” from “buy” by  Jose Yordan , an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. The stock lost 0.3 percent to 70.94
pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  