-- Bulgaria to Step Up 2011 Asset Sales Cover Budget Gap
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2010-10-06T13:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/bulgaria-to-sell-bulgartabak-minority-stake-in-e-on-in-2011.html
Bulgaria, struggling to cover its
widest budget deficit in a decade, plans to sell tobacco company
Bulgartabak Holding AD, an arms factory and minority stakes in
energy utilities next year.  The Privatization Agency estimates it will raise about 411
million lev ($290 million) from asset sales in 2011, said agency
chief Emil Karanikolov in an interview in Sofia yesterday. This
year’s proceeds are seen at some 100 million lev, mostly from
minority stakes in small companies and penalties for breached
investment commitments in companies already sold, he said.  “We still have a wide range of valuable assets, which we
plan to sell next year,” Karanikolov, 29, said. “Bulgartabak,
the state’s minority stake in the Bulgarian unit of E.ON AG, two
big state-run construction companies and duty-free zones will be
offered for sale.”  Bulgaria has to bring its  budget shortfall  of 4.8 percent
of gross domestic product to the  European Union  limit of 3
percent by the end of 2011 or face penalties. The government of
the EU’s poorest country by per-capita GDP plans to narrow the
gap to 2.5 percent next year as it recovers from its worst
recession in a decade.  Almost three-quarters of Bulgaria’s  economy  is private
after it sold state assets in the two decades following the
collapse of communism in 1990. The government still controls
minority stakes in military equipment plants and seven power
distributors.  Montagi Offering  Montagi EAD , a construction company involved in large
industrial projects including power plants, is the first in the
pipeline, Karanikolov said. Its assets are valued at about 70
million lev and will be sold on the  Bulgarian Stock Exchange  at
the end of the year or at the beginning of 2011, he said. State-
owned builder, Technoexportstroy, will also be sold.  The agency will sell a majority stake in Sopot-based
Vazovski Mashinostroitelni Zavodi, or VMZ, the country’s biggest
weapons  maker , after Parliament approves its sell-off strategy,
Nikolov said. The plant, which exports the bulk of its weapons,
produces guided missiles and a range of mortar bombs and
artillery ammunition. Its sell-off plan envisages selling the
stake on the stock exchange, the agency said on its website.  SKF AB , the world’s biggest maker of ball bearings, bought
VMZ’s ball-bearings unit in 2002. The government will consider
whether to sell its 35 percent stake in Arsenal, an assault-
rifle maker that was sold to its management in 1996.  The agency will hold later this month a competition for an
investment intermediary to sell on the Sofia-based bourse the
government’s 33 percent stake in an  E.ON -operated electricity
distributor, he said.  Power Distribution  “If its sale is successful, it will speed up the sale of
the government’s minority stakes in the other power
distributors,” Karanikolov said.  Germany’s E.ON controls power distribution in northeastern
Bulgaria, including the Black Sea city of Varna. The state holds
33 percent stakes in all seven power distributors, which were
sold in 2005 to E.ON, Prague-based  CEZ AS  and Austria’s  EVN AG 
in the run-up to joining the EU.  Bulgaria on Feb. 26 selected Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
to advise the government on its fourth attempt in a decade to
sell  Bulgartabak . The asset-selling agency signed the contract
with Citigroup on Sept. 8 and expects in 50 days to receive its
assessment and market research, Karanikolov said.  The government merged in March the asset-selling body with
the Post-Privatization Control Agency, which ensures that buyers
stick to their investment plans. The move helped cut
administration costs and boost revenue, Karanikolov said.  The 14-month old Cabinet of Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov 
expects the economy to grow 3.6 percent next year, exceeding an
International Monetary Fund estimate of 2.5 percent. Bulgaria
didn’t seek loans from international lenders to overcome the
credit crunch and the government refused to raise the EU’s
lowest taxes in an effort to attract investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  