-- HTC Posts Record Revenue, Profit on Android Phones
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2010-10-06T08:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/htc-posts-record-revenue-profit-on-android-phones-update1-.html
HTC Corp. , the world’s largest maker
of handsets using Microsoft Corp. and Google Inc. operating
systems, almost doubled quarterly profit, beating analyst
estimates as smartphone demand drove sales to a record.  Third-quarter net income climbed 95 percent to a record
NT$11.1 billion ($360 million) from NT$5.7 billion a year
earlier, the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a statement
today. That exceeded the NT$9.2 billion average of 16 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales more than doubled from a year earlier, driven by
models using Google’s Android platform, which overtook Research
In Motion Ltd.’s Blackberry software as the most popular
operating system in the U.S. among new smartphone buyers. The
release of Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7 software this quarter may
also help HTC increase sales.  “HTC will be a key beneficiary of the robust smartphone
up-cycle, growing popularity of Android, and Microsoft’s strong
push of WP7,”  Jeff Pu , an analyst at Fubon Financial Holding Co.
in Taipei, wrote in a report yesterday. “HTC’s improving brand
awareness and software capability will continue to support its
growth momentum into 2011.”  Consolidated revenue rose to NT$76 billion, beating HTC’s
 July 29 forecast  for NT$70 billion and trailing the NT$77.6
billion average of nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
HTC forecast in July that third-quarter shipments would more
than double to 6.5 million units.  Product Transition  “September shipments were impacted by the transition from
old products to new, with large volume shipments to begin in
October,” the company said in the statement, without providing
sales volume data.  HTC rose 3 percent to NT$719 at the close of trade in
Taipei, before earnings were announced. The stock has more than
doubled this year, driving its market value above $19 billion
and making it Taiwan’s fifth-largest  listed company  by market
capitalization. Taiwan’s  Taiex index  has added 1.2 percent in
the period, trailing a 7.8 percent advance in the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index .  Android, the free operating system developed by Google, had
a 32 percent share of the U.S. market for smartphones bought in
the past six months, surpassing Apple Inc.’s iPhone and the
BlackBerry platforms, which were tied in second place, according
to August data from  Nielsen Co .  Global shipments of smartphones, or handsets connected to
the Internet, will climb 55 percent this year to 269.6 million
units, researcher International Data Corp.  said  Sept. 7.  Mindshare, Market Share  “Additional product introductions and an expected flurry
of smartphone buying activity in the second half of the year
will push the market well above previous expectations,” IDC
said.  Android and Apple’s iPhone software “have taken away both
mindshare and market share from the old regime, and have helped
propel the market forward.”  HTC’s revenue may climb to NT$91 billion this quarter,
according to the average of nine analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. HTC is  rated  the equivalent of “buy” by 22 of 29
analysts, with two recommending investors sell the stock and
four rating it “hold,” according to Bloomberg data.  HTC’s global brand awareness rose to 40 percent by the
first half of this year from 10 percent last year after it spent
more on marketing and advertising, it said in July.  The company released its first own-brand handsets in China
during the quarter. HTC also unveiled an upgraded version of its
Desire handset with a high-definition display.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  