-- Calderon Seeks to Unify Mexico's Police Forces Amid Corruption, Killings
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-10-06T20:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/calderon-seeks-to-unify-mexico-s-police-forces-amid-corruption-killings.html
Mexican President  Felipe Calderon 
will send a bill to Congress today that would create unified
police forces across the country in a bid to improve public
security amid growing corruption and killings of officers.  The bill would make Mexico’s approximately 1,500 local
police forces report to a state command that in turn would
report to federal police. Centralizing police command will
reduce disparities in salary and aptitude that make it difficult
for authorities to fight crime efficiently, Calderon said at an
event in Mexico City.  Low salaries and a high turnover rate among local police
make officers vulnerable to intimidation by criminals and
susceptible to collaborating with organized crime, which
increases public distrust of law enforcement, Calderon said.
Local police forces are often undermanned and don’t have the
equipment, personnel or funding to fight criminals, he said.  “This is one of the most important reforms in the fight
for Mexicans’ security,” Calderon said. Local police forces are
“vulnerable, weak and don’t have the faculties, infrastructure,
systems, protection, mobility or stability that would guarantee
security for Mexicans.”  More than 400 municipalities in Mexico don’t have their own
police force, while 90 percent of local forces in Mexico have
fewer than 100 officers, Calderon said. About 61 percent of
municipal police earn a salary less than 4,000 pesos ($321) a
month, he said.  ‘More Control’  “There would be more control,”  Jorge Chabat , a political
science professor at the Center for Economic Research & Teaching
in Mexico City, said about Calderon’s bill. “What is clear is
that what we have now doesn’t work.”  More than 28,000 people have lost their lives in deaths
related to organized crime since Calderon took office and began
his fight against drug traffickers in December 2006. Mexico has
seen 11 municipal chiefs killed this year. The most recent, an
interim mayor of the town of Tancitaro in Michoacan state, may
have been stoned to death.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  