-- California Picks JPMorgan to Manage $10 Billion Sale
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-10-06T22:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/california-names-jpmorgan-to-manage-10-billion-note-sale-set-for-november.html
California named  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
to manage the sale of about $10 billion of short-term notes that
the state plans to sell next month to fill its coffers with
enough cash for the rest of the year.  De La Rosa & Co. and Wells Fargo Securities will help
manage the sale, according to state Treasurer  Bill Lockyer . The
state typically issues revenue-anticipation notes in the second
or third quarter each year, when cash-on-hand is low, and repays
them from later tax collections. Lockyer said today the sale
could occur as soon as the first week of November.  The sale has been pending amid a record-long 98-day
stalemate between Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and lawmakers
over how to best erase a $19.1 billion deficit. Lockyer hasn’t
been able to borrow the money because the promise to repay the
notes must be included in the budget. Schwarzenegger and
legislative leaders reached a compromise on closing the deficit
Oct. 1 and have scheduled a vote on a spending plan tomorrow.  Lockyer plans to use a portion of the proceeds from the
note sale to repay a bridge loan he’s estimated at around $5
billion that he’s lining up from Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and RBC Capital Markets to
tide the state over once a budget is passed.  Citigroup Inc. , RBC Capital and Siebert Brandford Shank &
Co. have been  picked  to be joint senior managers on the sale of
general-obligation bonds that Lockyer has said he would like to
sell before the end of November, a posting on the treasurer’s
website shows. How much debt will be sold hasn’t been decided,
though Schwarzenegger’s Finance Department has identified about
$6 billion of bonding needs through the end of next month.  California sold $8.8 billion of one-year notes in September
2009. JPMorgan also managed that offering, assisted by 36 other
firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  