-- California Takes Initial Orders for 40% of $1.9 Billion Power Bond Sale
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-06T18:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/california-takes-initial-orders-for-40-of-1-9-billion-power-bond-sale.html
California  took orders yesterday from
individual investors for $772 million, or 40 percent, of the
$1.9 billion of debt the state is selling this week to refinance
bonds issued during its energy crisis almost a decade ago.  Preliminary yields from the first day of the California
Department of Water Resources’s so-called retail-order period
range from 0.88 percent for a bond maturing in 2012 to 2.80
percent for debt due in 2019, according to data from Treasurer
 Bill Lockyer ’s office. That’s 28 to 36 basis points more than
top-rated bonds, according to Municipal Market Advisors data.  California is using the money to help pare costs on debt
residents are still paying for the energy crisis in 2001 and
2002, when electricity prices jumped as traders manipulated the
market. The state bought electricity on behalf of privately
owned utilities that couldn’t pass along the cost to customers,
paying for it with $11 billion of debt in 2002.  Individual investors are placing orders again today before
institutions such as insurance companies buy the bonds tomorrow.  “Sounds like they got pretty good reception yesterday,”
said  Kelly Wine , a senior underwriter at Encino, California-
based RH Investment Corp. “Investors realize it’s a solid
credit and that it’s separate from the state.”  May Sale  Sacramento-based DWR, which regulates and manages the
state’s water usage, sold $2.9 billion in tax-exempt revenue
bonds in May, the largest of its kind this year. During that
sale, retail investors bought 42.8 percent of the bonds. Lockyer
increased the size of the sale from $2 billion because of demand
from investors, who placed orders for more than half of the
original amount.  Ten-year securities from that sale traded Sept. 27 at an
average yield of 2.73 percent, or 12 basis points above top-
rated debt, compared with a spread of  45 basis points  on the
sale date, according to Municipal Market Advisor’s data. A basis
point is 0.01 of a percentage point.  The state sold $2.5 billion in general obligations in
March, pricing 11-year bonds to yield 4.54 percent, which was
 144 basis points  above a comparable-maturity index of AAA debt
from MMA, an independent research firm based in Concord,
Massachusetts. The securities traded Sept. 24 at an average
yield of 3.44 percent, or 69 basis points above the index.  The department’s debt has a higher ranking than the state’s
general obligations, which carry A1 from Moody’s Investors
Service, because they’re backed by revenue from consumer
electricity bills. The securities are rated Aa3 by Moody’s and
AA- by Standard & Poor’s, both fourth-highest investment grade,
compared with AA by Fitch Ratings, one level above.  A portion of the department’s sale also will end interest-
rate swap agreements, according to a Sept. 24 Fitch report.  California, the lowest-rated U.S. state, entered a record
fourth month without a completed budget last week. While the
state can’t sell debt without a budget, agencies still can,  Bud Byrnes , chief executive officer at RH Investment, said earlier
this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at +1= 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 