-- California Budget Relies on More Federal Aid, Pension Rollback
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-10-06T20:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/california-budget-relies-on-more-federal-aid-pension-rollback.html
An agreement to end  California ’s
longest-ever budget impasse seeks to fill a $19.1 billion
deficit by using higher revenue projections and more money from
the federal government than what has been promised.  The budget counts on California getting $5.3 billion in
federal funds for welfare, education and prison costs instead of
the $3.4 billion Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  estimated in
May. The plan narrows the deficit by $1.4 billion by using tax-
revenue forecasts from the state’s Legislative Analyst’s Office
instead of those used by Schwarzenegger in May, according to a
copy posted on the Senate  website .  The most-populous U.S. state has been operating without a
spending plan for a record 98 days amid a stalemate between
Schwarzenegger, a Republican, and Democrats, who control the
Legislature, over how to close the gap. They reached a deal
behind closed doors Oct. 1 and have withheld the details of the
 agreement  until today. They expect to vote on it tomorrow.  “As California begins to emerge from the global recession,
the 2010-11 budget provides a way forward to protect the public
structures of education, public safety, infrastructure and vital
services,” lawmakers said in an outline of the proposal that is
to be presented to a budget conference committee today.  “The budget does not increase any tax rates and implements
significant ongoing reform in the areas of budget and public
pensions,” the statement said.  Two-Thirds Needed  California requires a two-thirds vote in both the Assembly
and Senate to pass budgets, and neither party holds enough seats
to meet that threshold. That forced lawmakers to agree on a
compromise plan before bringing it before each chamber.  “I think they did a reasonable job in a very tough
environment, partly because there’s the two-thirds vote
requirement,” California Treasurer  Bill Lockyer , a Democrat,
said in an interview. “When you have one group that says don’t
spend, don’t tax and the other group says spend and tax, it’s
very hard to compromise between those two views.”  State Controller  John Chiang  has said a prolonged impasse
may force him to issue IOUs for a second straight year to
conserve cash to make priority payments such as debt service.  The budget plan cuts spending by $7.5 billion, less than
the $12 billion sought by Schwarzenegger and Republicans. Almost
half the cuts come from schools. It also counts on $1.2 billion
the state will save by suspending for two years a business tax
credit that lets companies count part of one year’s losses
against future earnings.  Internal Funds  The proposal also borrows about $2.8 billion from internal
state accounts. The total spending cuts include $1.5 billion in
lower costs for state workers through new contracts negotiated
with labor unions.  Schwarzenegger in January said the state should get $6.9
billion from the federal government. He lowered that number when
he revised his budget in May.  The budget would also grant a tax break sought by
Republicans that allows companies to avoid paying a 20 percent
penalty when they understate their tax liability by more than $1
million. This would cost the state $132 million a year.  The  Legislative Analyst’s Office  predicted in May that
revenue from income, sales and corporate taxes would come in $1
billion higher than what Schwarzenegger forecast for the current
fiscal year and about $400 million more in the previous fiscal
year.  The agreement also proposes a law that would roll back
pension benefits for new state employees to 1999 levels by
requiring workers to contribute more from their pay, retire when
they are older and base benefits on the three years of highest
wages instead of one.  Reserve Fund  Lawmakers also will be asked to place a measure on the
statewide ballot that would ask voters to require a contingency
reserve of up to 10 percent of the general fund. Any excess
money when the state runs a surplus can be used to pay down
debt.  California, with the world’s eighth-largest  economy , issued
$2.6 billion of IOUs last year after a similar stalemate. That
was only the second time since the Great Depression that the
state had to use warrants to cover costs and conserve cash.
Fitch Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service cut the state’s
credit rating when the IOUs began being issued last year.  The state’s constitution says lawmakers must send a budget
to the governor by June 15, about two weeks before the start of
the fiscal year. The Legislature has met that deadline five
times in the last 30 years. The 2008 budget was sent to
Schwarzenegger on Sept. 16 of that year and signed into law on
Sept. 23, the latest the state went without a spending plan
until this year.  In January, Standard & Poor’s cut California’s credit grade
to A-, its lowest among U.S. states, citing fiscal imbalances
and recurring cash-flow problems. S&P has said it may reduce the
state’s rating again if the budget crisis worsens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  