-- Cameron Ends Conservative Conference on Defensive Over Child-Benefit Cuts
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-10-07T06:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/cameron-ends-conservative-conference-on-defensive-over-child-benefit-cuts.html
David Cameron  ended his first
 Conservative Party  conference as U.K. premier on the defensive
after apologizing for a cut in child benefits that dominated
that gathering.  The dispute over ending payments to women in wealthier
households, which wasn’t part of his campaign platform, diverted
attention from announcements to promote growth while cutting a
 record budget deficit . Tory ministers detailed plans to help the
jobless set up businesses and to crack down on welfare cheats.  “Cameron and his team are finding that implementing cuts
is harder when you get to specifics than when you’re talking
about generalities,” said  Philip Cowley , professor of politics
at Nottingham University and author of “The British General
Election of 2010.”  The party’s chairwoman,  Sayeeda Warsi , questioned about the
effect of the controversy in a  BBC television interview 
yesterday, replied: “It has not been a car crash.”  Cameron was seeking to use the get-together to rebut the
charge from  Ed Miliband , who leads the opposition Labour Party,
that the Conservatives no longer offer an optimistic vision of
Britain. In his 52-minute keynote speech yesterday, Cameron
referred to “work,” “workers” or “working” 25 times.  “We can build a country defined not by the selfishness of
the Labour years but by the values of mutual responsibility that
this party holds dear,” Cameron said. “A country, a society
where we say: I am not alone. I will play my part. I will work
with others to give Britain a brand new start.”  The government is considering pushing back some deficit
cuts, spreading the impact more evenly over the five-year plan,
the Financial Times reported today, citing officials.  Benefit Cuts  The child-benefit cut is intended to save 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion) a year by stopping payments to families in which
one parent earns more than about 44,000 pounds. Households in
which both parents earn less than that will keep their benefit,
even though they might have a joint income of 86,000 pounds.  Parents’ groups and Labour spokesmen said that was unfair.
The policy will also mean that parents whose earnings take them
just over the threshold are poorer than those just under it.  The child-benefit cut “was poorly executed and poorly
conveyed,”  Andrew Hawkins , chairman of polling company ComRes
Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “As a result, it came to
dominate the conference.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  made the
surprise announcement at 7:15 a.m. on Oct. 4, the second day of
the meeting, in an interview with the BBC. He highlighted the
plan in his speech to the conference at noon that day, when it
was greeted by a round of applause.  Welfare Cap  That speech contained a second policy statement, with
Osborne saying welfare payments would be capped for households
in which no one works, hitting 50,000 families.  It was the child-benefit announcement that sowed discord.  Children’s Minister  Tim Loughton  told Channel 4 television
there was “plenty of time” to adjust the details of the child-
benefit policy, a position he recanted the next day. Osborne
wrote to Conservative lawmakers yesterday explaining the
measure, after former Conservative leadership candidate  David Davis  said it was unfair.  “They announced this first so that no one could accuse
them of hammering the poor when they announced the welfare cuts
later in the day,”  Anthony Wells , a pollster at YouGov Plc,
said in a telephone interview. “Instead it obscured them. I
suspect that wasn’t the plan.”  Labour said the confusion over the policy showed that
Osborne and Cameron, who are both millionaires, are out of touch
with the concerns of ordinary people.  ‘Don’t Understand’  “They have clearly been taken aback by the reaction of
parents across the country,” Labour’s work and pensions
spokeswoman,  Yvette Cooper , said in an e-mailed statement.
“ George Osborne  and David Cameron obviously don’t understand
what it means for families on middle incomes to lose thousands
of pounds a year.”  Cameron, attempting to stave off criticism, pointed to his
party’s commitment to introduce a tax break for married couples.
Before the election, he had said this would only apply to lower
earners, though the commitment in the coalition agreement drawn
up with the Conservatives’ Liberal Democrat partners is looser.  Cutting child benefit for the better off is popular with
the electorate, according to a  poll  by YouGov Plc for The Sun
newspaper, which found that 83 percent of voters backed it in
principle. The difficulty for the coalition is that when voters
were asked if they approved of the implementation of the policy,
46 percent said it was unfair and should be means-tested.  Conference Troubles  Britain’s two other main parties have also had troubled
conferences in the past two weeks. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  faced hostile questioning from delegates at the meeting in
Liverpool of his Liberal Democrats over his decision to go into
coalition with Cameron.  The Labour Party’s conference in Manchester last week was
overshadowed by five days of uncertainty about former Foreign
Secretary  David Miliband ’s political future after he
unexpectedly lost the race to be party leader to Ed, his younger
brother. David quit frontline politics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in Birmingham, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in Birmingham, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  