-- Canadian European Pension Funds May Fund Indian Roads, Minister Nath Says
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2010-10-06T06:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/canadian-european-pension-funds-may-fund-indian-roads-minister-nath-says.html
Canadian, European pension funds may
invest in road projects in India attracted by the higher yields
than the U.S. after the nation lifted the cap on foreign
investment in bonds to lure capital for infrastructure projects.  “Long-term funds require a good parking lot and this will
be a good parking lot,” Road Transport and Highways Minister
 Kamal Nath  said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV. “I have got
promises” from Canada and Europe, he said, declining to
identify the funds.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  last month allowed overseas
investors to buy $5 billion more of obligations sold by
infrastructure companies to improve quality of the nation’s
ports, power stations and roads, used to transport 65 percent of
freight in Asia’s second-fastest growing major economy. India,
which has the highest density of highways in the world, ranks
below war-ravaged Ivory Coast for the quality of infrastructure.  International investors more than  doubled  holdings of
India’s government and corporate debt this year to a record
$17.8 billion on Sept. 27, data from the Securities & Exchange
Board of India show. Foreign investors can buy as much as $20
billion of corporate debentures after the latest rule change.  Five-year sovereign notes  yield  about 660 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries, the most in at least nine
years.  Inadequacy, Delays  The delay in building roads and the inadequacy of the
nation’s utilities and transport network shaves 2 percentage
points from growth, the Finance Ministry estimates. The economy
has expanded an average 8.5 percent in the last five years.  “Consultants are taking a long time,” Nath said. “The
coordination between National Highway Authority of India and
consultants has been very poor and that’s causing delays.”  India needs to double spending on building infrastructure
projects to $1 trillion in the five years to 2017, according the
country’s Planning Commission. The South Asian nation is ranked
89 out of 133 nations for its infrastructure, according to the
World Economic Forum’s  Global Competitiveness Index .  Nath has set a target of building 20 kilometers of highways
a day through 2015 as the government tries to ease congestion
and accelerate economic growth. The government is building 13
kilometers a day as of now, he said.  India will need to borrow as much as 200 billion rupees
($4.5 billion) annually from domestic and global markets for the
next 15 years to fund the road building projects, the National
Highway Authority said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anurag Joshi  in Mumbai 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai 
 Aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 