-- Canadian Dollar Reaches 5-Month High as Central Bank Seen Holding Steady
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-06T19:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/canada-s-dollar-reaches-two-month-high-as-central-bank-seen-holding-steady.html
Canada’s dollar touched a five-month
high versus its U.S. counterpart amid speculation that central
banks of other nations will continue to ease monetary policy as
the Bank of Canada remains on hold.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie, has gained 5.5 percent
since reaching a six-week low Aug. 31, as demand for the
nation’s raw materials recovered. Crude oil, Canada’s largest
export, rose to a five-month high, making investments linked to
growth more attractive. The U.S. dollar tumbled against 13 of
the 16 most-traded currencies after data showing companies cut
jobs stoked speculation the Federal Reserve will increase
purchases of assets.  “Canadian-dollar strength is a direct result of U.S.-
dollar weakness today as the likelihood of more quantitative
easing has been raised in the U.S.,” said  Maria Jones,  a
currency trader in Toronto at TD Securities Inc., a unit of
Toronto-Dominion Bank. “The Canadian-dollar has held in, but
going forward should underperform if U.S. data continues to
worsen, as it could possibly drag down Canada growth.”  The Canadian dollar appreciated 0.5 percent to C$1.0104 per
U.S. dollar at 3:51 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0158 yesterday. It
touched C$1.0063, the strongest level since April 30. One
Canadian dollar buys 98.97 U.S. cents.  Companies in the U.S. unexpectedly cut 39,000 jobs in
September, according to a report from ADP Employer Services. The
median of a Bloomberg News survey of 37 economists projected
20,000 added jobs. A Labor Department report Oct. 8 may show the
jobless rate probably rose in September for a second month.  Dollar Parity  The loonie reached parity with the U.S. dollar on April 6
for the first time since July 2008 on prospects that Canada
would have higher interest rates and stronger economic growth
than the U.S.  The currency will trade on a one-for-one basis with the
greenback again after breaking below C$1.0108,  Sebastian Galy , a
currency strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, said via e-
mail. It also will gain on the Australian dollar, against which
it was little changed today at 98.68 Canadian cents.  Canada draws about half its export revenue from commodities
including oil, copper, lumber and wheat. Crude for November
delivery rose as much as 1.5 percent to $84.09 a barrel in New
York, the highest level since May 4, before trading at $83.24.  “Investors are looking for countries with less structural
impediments as more central banks signal further easing,”  David Watt , senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada, the
nation’s biggest lender, said by phone from Toronto. “Canada’s
economic strength provides a bullish backdrop.”  Overnight Rate  The Bank of Canada raised its benchmark rate to 1 percent
on Sept. 8 in its third straight increase. Last week, Governor
 Mark Carney  said further boosts “would need to be carefully
considered” given risks of a renewed U.S. slowdown and cooling
consumer spending in Canada.  The difference between the Bank of Canada’s overnight rate
and government two-year bond yields is at the narrowest since
before the central bank cut rates 18 months ago, suggesting
investors are wagering Carney is done with increases this year.  The spread touched 0.34 percentage point today, or 34 basis
points, down from as high as 180 basis points in April and the
lowest since March 2009, the month before the Bank of Canada cut
its target rate in half to a record low 0.25 percent.  ‘Still Underperforming’  “The overwhelming U.S.-dollar weakness is helping
Canada,” said  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange
trading in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit.
“The loonie is up on the day, but is still underperforming on a
relative basis as the market is a little bit cautious after
reaching these high levels, regarding the Canadian interest-rate
outlook and as things in the U.S. continue to look worse.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has lowered its growth forecast
for the Canadian economy through the end of this year.  The bank cut its third-quarter growth forecast to a 1.5
percent annualized rate from 2.5 percent, and reduced its
fourth-quarter projection to 2 percent from 2.5 percent,
according to an e-mailed note to clients from Goldman Sachs
economist  Andrew Tilton .  Government bonds rose, pushing the yield on Canada’s
benchmark  10-year note  down 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 2.75 percent. It touched 2.70 percent, the lowest
level since March 2009. The price of the 3.5 percent security
due in June 2020 increased 14 cents to C$106.34.  Canada auctioned C$3 billion ($2.98 billion) of 10-year
notes, drawing an average yield of 2.836 percent. The government
received bids of C$7.1 billion for the 3.25 percent notes
maturing in June 2021, according to a statement today on the
Bank of Canada’s website.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said countries are concerned
that measures being taken around the globe to weaken currencies
are distorting markets and trade.  “We don’t want these kind of distortions in currency
values or distortions in trading relationships,” Flaherty, 60,
said today to reporters in Ottawa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  