-- McDonald's, Verizon Mark U.S. Profit Slowdown on Consumer Woes
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-10-06T16:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/mcdonald-s-verizon-mark-u-s-profit-slowdown-on-consumer-woes.html
U.S. profits probably grew at the
slowest pace this year in the third quarter as declining
consumer confidence curbed spending and hurt results at
companies from  McDonald’s Corp.  to  Verizon Communications Inc.   Earnings of Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies outside
the financial sector probably increased 21 percent in the three
months through September, and may expand 12 percent in the
fourth quarter, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Comparable earnings  grew 38 percent in the first
quarter and 40 percent in the second.  While companies that get most of their revenue abroad, such
as  Caterpillar Inc.  and  General Electric Co. , stand to benefit
from growing overseas economies and a weaker dollar, industries
reliant on the U.S. economy and consumer spending are likely to
struggle, said  Peter Sorrentino , who helps manage $13.3 billion
at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati.  “There are some bright spots in the U.S. economy,”
Sorrentino said. “It’s just not anything to do with the U.S.
consumer.”  Boosting profit also will be tougher because of comparisons
with a year-earlier period that saw profits rebound after the
U.S. recession ended.  “This is where the good companies with good management
teams should start outperforming because growth becomes more
scarce,” said  Mark Demos , a Minneapolis-based portfolio manager
at Fifth Third Asset Management, which oversees $18 billion.
“It will separate the true growth companies from the
pretenders.”  Alcoa Earnings  Alcoa Inc., the country’s biggest aluminum producer, kicks
off the earnings season with its results tomorrow, the first
from a Dow Jones Industrial Average company. Alcoa may post
profit of $39.8 million, or 5 cents a share, excluding some
items, after smelting costs increased and global stockpiles
lowered the metal’s price.  Companies have almost exhausted the strategy of boosting
earnings by cutting workers and other costs, and consumers
grappling with lower home values and  unemployment  of 9.6 percent
aren’t inclined to spend, said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, a
Birmingham, Alabama-based senior vice president at BB&T Wealth
Management, which oversees $17 billion.  That’s contributed to a slowdown in the U.S. recovery, with
 factory  orders declining 0.5 percent in August, according to the
U.S. Commerce Department. The U.S. economy, which grew at an
annual rate of 5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009, expanded
1.7 percent in the second quarter.  Consumer Thermometer  Among the weakest sectors of the S&P 500 index in the third
quarter is consumer staples, where profit is projected to have
increased less than 4 percent, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Companies are facing resistance as they try to raise
prices, according to Sorrentino.  Earnings growth for Europe’s Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Index is
forecast to slow to about 17 percent in 2011 from 60 percent
this year, with consumer-services profit sliding 10
percent next year, according to Bloomberg data.  “The thermometer says that the consumer is not as healthy
as he should be, and that’s a headwind to economic growth,”
Hellwig said.  Confidence among U.S. consumers declined during the third
quarter, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
index of consumer sentiment. The  gauge  fell to 68.2 in September
from 68.9 in August and 76 in June. The confidence index
averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the recession that
began in December 2007.  ‘Shaky Ground’  “Sentiment is still on shaky ground,”  Mark Kalinowski , an
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott in New York, said in an
interview.  McDonald’s  may post 8 percent growth in per-share earnings
in the third quarter, analysts estimated, boosted by sales of
smoothies and frappe drinks. That would be smaller than last
year’s gain in the same period, a trend that may continue in the
fourth quarter, when analysts also project growth of 8 percent.  Profit probably fell 7.1 percent at telecommunications
companies in the third quarter and may rise less than 1 percent
in the final three months of the year, according to the
estimates.  Verizon , which is cutting 13,000  jobs  in the fixed-line
phone business to cope with subscriber losses, is forecast to
post 10 percent lower adjusted profit in the third quarter and
little-changed earnings in the fourth quarter.  U.S. steelmaking is a weak spot in an otherwise healthy
materials sector, Fifth Third’s Demos said.  Nucor Corp. , the
largest U.S. steelmaker, and  Steel Dynamics Inc.  both told
analysts last month that estimates for third-quarter earnings
were too high.  Overseas Markets  Companies that did well in the past three months, such as
industrial and technology businesses, may benefit this quarter
from overseas sales helped by a slumping dollar.  Dow Chemical Co., which drew more than  68 percent  of 2009
sales from countries outside the U.S., helped lead materials-
industry growth of 35 percent, according to estimates.  Profit  at
the Midland, Michigan-based company may have climbed 68 percent
to 40 cents a share and may rise 77 percent in the final three
months of the year.  GE , which gets more than half its sales from outside the
U.S., may post  earnings  of 27 cents a share, a 23 percent
increase from a year earlier and the second straight gain after
eight quarters of results that either declined or were little
changed.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is building U.S.
exports and overseas markets to take advantage of developing
economies in the Middle East, China, India and Brazil.  ‘Trending Better’  Caterpillar Inc.,  the biggest maker of construction and
mining equipment, is increasing sales in emerging markets such
as China and Brazil, countries where the Peoria, Illinois-based
company is building factories to meet local demand.  The company, which gets 67 percent of sales outside the
U.S., probably earned adjusted profit of  $1.09  a share in the
three months through September, up from 44 cents a year earlier,
analysts estimated.  “Most emerging markets are trending better than dealers
thought for third quarter and 2010,”  Jamie Cook , a Credit
Suisse AG  analyst  in New York who rates the shares
“outperform,” said in a report Sept. 24.  Apple Inc.  may buck the shrinking earnings growth that
analysts project for technology companies as its iPad tablet
computer grabs sales from rival products during the holiday
season.  The Cupertino, California-based company’s profit may have
more than doubled to $3.77 billion, or $4.05 a share, from July
through September, on sales of $18.7 billion, according to the
 average estimates  of analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Buying Earnings  Technology is among the sectors where mergers are rising as
companies try to increase profit after exhausting cost cuts and
seeing sales gains become more difficult, Sorrentino said.
Technology companies on average may see earnings growth shrink
to an average 17 percent in the fourth quarter, analysts
estimate.  “A lot of the takeovers that we see are companies trying
to buy earnings,” said  Barry R. James  of James Investment
Research in Dayton, Ohio. “They can’t do it internally, so they
will jump outside and buy it.”  Earnings in the consumer discretionary sector may have
increased 23 percent in the third quarter, led by autos and
apparel, according to analysts.  Ford Profit  Ford Motor Co. , the second-largest U.S. automaker, may have
increased third-quarter profit 37 percent, the Dearborn,
Michigan-based company’s smallest gain this year, to 36 cents a
share, or $1.29 billion, analysts estimated.  The only major U.S. automaker to avoid bankruptcy and forgo
a government bailout, Ford may report its sixth straight
quarterly profit after  posting  about $30 billion in losses from
2005 through 2008.  Europe’s biggest carmakers, including Volkswagen AG and
Renault SA, are benefitting from orders driven by emerging
markets such as China and India as they enter the final
quarter, said  Volker Stoll , an analyst at Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, Germany.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker, may
post a sevenfold jump in net income to 169 billion yen ($2.03
billion) for the quarter ended Sept. 30 as car demand recovered
from a recession in the U.S. and gained in China, according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Loan Demand  Among financial companies, profit rose 45 percent last
quarter from a year earlier as bank earnings more than doubled
and insurance and real estate profit fell, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The four largest U.S. banks -- Bank of America Corp.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup and Wells Fargo & Co. -- will
benefit as credit quality and loan demand improve, said  Charles Peabody , an analyst at Portales Partners in New York.  “We’re going to start to see loan demand, particularly from
the commercial side, emerge in the fourth quarter, and next
year, we’ll start to see some consumer loan growth,” Peabody,
who has covered banks for more than 30 years, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “Willingness to lend will come
back as credit quality improves.”  Fourth-quarter performance may prove better than analysts
are projecting, said  James Paulsen , chief investment strategist
at Wells Capital Management, which manages $342 billion.  “We are probably setting ourselves up then for having a
wonderful January reporting season,” he said in an interview.
“The bigger dog in the room is not going to be what were
earnings last quarter, it’s going to be what is happening right
now on Main Street to jobs, spending and income trends, and that
I think is going to look better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at   kmiller@bloomberg.net . 