-- Batali Enlists Bourdain, Tucci to Battle Kids’ Obesity, Cancer
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/chef-batali-enlists-bourdain-tucci-to-battle-obesity-cancer-in-children.html
Mario Batali , who serves up
cholesterol-boosting dishes such as  fennel-dusted sweetbreads
with duck bacon  at his restaurants, wants to help children and
adults avoid obesity, heart disease and cancer.  Through his Mario Batali Foundation launched last year, the
chef and restaurateur has begun funding research on pediatric
diseases. Last year, the foundation started a fund at  Memorial
Sloan-Kettering  pediatric unit for cancer research and programs
that assist children undergoing cancer treatment.  In May, Batali began offering at least two meatless meals
on the menus of 14 restaurants, which include the tough-to-get-
into Babbo Ristorante e Enoteca in the West Village and  B&B
Ristorante  in Las Vegas.  Batali has followed the work of Dr. William Li, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based expert on the relationship between diet and
various diseases, including cancer.  “If you can create an environment in your body where
cancer production doesn’t happen at a certain age, you can
really stop and eliminate different kinds of cancers, even ones
that have already started,” said the orange clog shod Batali,
50. He has developed recipes with cancer-fighters including
 apples and spinach , based on Dr. Li’s diet guidelines.  Del Posto Fundraiser  To support his agenda, he is hosting a fundraiser and
dinner, “Magic, Martinis & Mario,” tonight at Del Posto
Ristorante, his four-star palazzo of Italian cuisine in Chelsea,
to raise about $200,000 for his charity.  “The greatest wealth that we have on the entire planet is
the potential in children,” he said. “To squander it on any
level is the worst thing we can do.” He added that his
fundraisers are more affordable than most, with tickets ranging
from $100 to $300, with half-price tickets for kids.  Batali’s chefs will serve rack of lamb,  pennette  with
porcini and tomato strattu, and lobster salad. Bar maestro  Tony
Abou-Ganim , author of “The Modern Mixologist: Contemporary
Classic Cocktails,” will pour some of his  specialty drinks .  Mariska Hargitay  The guest list includes Anthony Bourdain, the chef and host
of the Travel Channel’s “No Reservations,” NBC’s “Late Night”
host  Jimmy Fallon  and actors  Stanley Tucci , and NBC’s “Law and
Order: Special Victims Unit” co-star  Mariska Hargitay .  Yakima, Washington native Batali, who was mentored by
British culinary legend  Marco Pierre White , came to New York
with $300. After launching his first restaurant, Po, in 1993, he
opened Babbo in 1998 and received the  James Beard Foundation 
award for best new restaurant of the year.  Batali became a supporter of the Food Bank for New York
City with his wife, Susan Cahn. The pair have chaired the
nonprofit’s annual gala dinner since 2004, when Batali joined
the board.  With a restaurant and food empire that generates more than
$140 million in revenue -- including Eataly, the Italian cuisine
complex in Manhattan that opened last month -- Batali has begun
carving out time from his frenetic schedule to raise money for
his foundation’s work.  A former Iron Chef on the  Food Network , Batali uses his
celebrity clout to lure donors. In May, he hosted a day of
gourmet food and golf at the Wilshire Country Club in Los
Angeles. He organized a benefit screening last year of “ The
Fantastic Mr. Fox ” (in which he voiced the character Rabbit) to
raise money for his charity.  The foundation also focuses on child literacy and “the
critical thought process” that comes through reading and
learning, he said.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 