-- China Demand to Help Push Drug Sales to $880 Billion, IMS Says
-- B y   E l l e n   G i b s o n
-- 2010-10-06T23:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/china-demand-to-help-push-drug-sales-to-880-billion-ims-says.html
Global pharmaceutical  sales  may rise
5 percent to 7 percent next year to $880 billion, on soaring
demand in developing nations led by China as it becomes the
world’s third largest drug market, according to  IMS Health Inc.   The 2011 projection compares with this year’s 4 percent to
5 percent growth in drug sales to $840 billion, the Norwalk,
Connecticut-based research company said in a report released
today. Emerging markets including China and India are expected
to expand by as much as 17 percent to $180 billion while growth
in the U.S. market slows.  The world’s largest market, the U.S., is growing at a
historically low rate of 3 percent to 4 percent as patents
expire on top-selling medicines and cheaper generic versions
become available to consumers, said  Murray Aitken , senior vice
president of IMS, in a telephone interview yesterday. Drugs with
sales of more than $30 billion are expected to lose patent
protection next year, according to IMS.  “While the overall market will appear to rebound somewhat
in 2011, the underlying constraints to growth in developed
markets are stronger than ever,” Aitken said. “Almost half of
the global growth next year will come from China and the other
emerging markets.”  The five biggest European markets -- Germany, France,
Italy, Spain and the U.K. -- will grow 1 percent to 3 percent as
governments cut drug prices as part of efforts to restore fiscal
balance, according to the IMS report. In the U.S., health plans
will require pre-authorization for certain medications along
with other measures intended to address rising health-care
expenditures.  Generic Competition  Generic copies will hit the market next year for  Pfizer
Inc. ’s cholesterol pill Lipitor, the world’s top-selling drug
with sales of $11.4 billion in 2009. Generic versions of the No.
2 seller,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. ’s blood thinner Plavix, will
become available in the U.S. in 2012. Together with  Eli Lilly &
Co. ’s antipsychotic Zyprexa and  Johnson & Johnson’s  antibiotic
Levaquin -- also expected to lose market exclusivity -- the
drugs account for 93 million prescriptions a year, IMS said.  Developing countries  are expected to pick up the slack for
those lost revenue. IMS said it expects drug spending in China
to increase at least 25 percent next year as the middle class
expands and the government invests in health care. Japan is the
second-biggest pharmaceutical market after the U.S.  Another bright spot for the industry is the anticipated
introduction of several new treatments for diseases including
 melanoma ,  hepatitis C  and multiple sclerosis, the report said.
IMS expects five products each potentially worth at least $1
billion in annual sales to be approved and launched by the end
of next year.  These medicines could include  AstraZeneca  Plc’s heart drug
Brilinta, Bristol-Myers’ apixaban for blood clots,  Sanofi-
Aventis  SA’s iniparib for breast cancer, the hepatitis C
treatment telaprevir from  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc.  and
Bristol-Myers’ ipilimumab for melanoma, Aitken said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ellen Gibson  in New York at 
 egibson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 