-- UN's Talks in China on Climate Change Show Little Progress, Bolivia Says
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-10-06T05:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/china-climate-change-talks-show-little-progress-bolivia-delegate-says.html
United Nations talks in China aimed
at reaching an agreement to mitigate climate change are making
little progress, according to  Pablo Solon , the head of Bolivia’s
delegation to the meeting.  Delegations are avoiding discussion over the content of the
negotiating text by introducing new proposals, while there’s
been no movement on the “insufficient” pledges by developed
countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions,  Solon ,
Bolivia’s Ambassador to the UN, said today.  Officials from 177 governments are meeting in Tianjin,
China to move forward on a climate treaty for when emissions
targets set by the  Kyoto Protocol  expire at the end of 2012.
Talks in Copenhagen broke down last year over issues including
setting a global emissions reduction target and Solon said
little progress is possible unless developed countries pledge
bigger cuts.  “We don’t see any kind of movement from developed
countries to increase the level of emissions reduction,” Solon
said. “If we had a set of commitments that assured developing
countries that the measures will cool the planet, these talks
would be moving very well.”  The week-long talks are the last before envoys meet in
Cancun, Mexico between Nov. 29 and Dec. 10 to try to reach an
agreement that the UN climate chief,  Christiana Figueres , has
said is unlikely this year.  The climate summit in Copenhagen failed to produce a
binding agreement even after leaders including U.S. President
 Barack Obama  flew in to reach a deal.  Draft Proposals  Delegates this week are negotiating two draft proposals
reached at a meeting in Bonn in August that need to be narrowed
before Cancun, Figueres, executive secretary of the so-called UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change, told reporters earlier
this week.  “Very few paragraphs” have changed, Solon said.  Commitments remain insufficient to limit the average
increase in global temperature to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit), a target that was agreed Copenhagen last year.  The UN Framework Convention estimates that commitments
amount to a cut of between 12 and 19 percent from 1990 levels,
short of the range of 25 to 40 percent it says is needed.  The U.S. pledge to cut emissions by 17 percent by 2020 from
2005 levels remains a sticking point in the talks, Solon said.
The pledge amounts to a 3 percent reduction from 1990 levels,
less than the 5 percent required under the  Kyoto Protocol , which
the U.S. didn’t ratify, he said.  U.S., China  The U.S. and China, the two biggest emitters of greenhouse
gases, have been deadlocked over issues including pollution-
reduction goals and verification of emissions cuts.  A bill that would cap emissions stalled in the U.S. Senate
this year after the House passed a measure in 2009.  Todd Stern ,
U.S. special envoy for climate change, said in an interview on
Oct. 1 there’s “no doubt” the U.S. will adopt legislation that
will help reach its emissions reduction goal.  The U.S. and other developed nations should raise their
targets for cutting emissions, Agence France-Presse reported
yesterday, citing Su Wei, China’s chief negotiator on climate
change.  Most countries accept China’s pledge to reduce carbon
dioxide emissions intensity, measured as emissions per unit of
gross domestic product, by between 40 and 45 percent by 2020, he
said.  Bolivia and China are both in the so-called G77 group of
developing nations, which act together at climate change talks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 