-- China Security Rules Threaten U.S. Technology Sales, Group Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-10-06T16:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/china-s-market-worth-150-billion-to-u-s-companies-business-group-says.html
China’s security requirements for
technology bought by banks, schools and transportation companies
are a growing commercial barrier to U.S. manufacturers, trade
groups said today.  China, citing security needs for its infrastructure, is
increasingly requiring that technology equipment be sent to
government labs for testing and that certain products be
developed in China, the  Information Technology Industry Council 
and  Telecommunications Industry Association  said in testimony in
Washington.  “It has been a slow-moving train, but now it is starting
to bite,” John Neuffer, vice president of the Washington-based
council, said at a hearing on China trade held by the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office. “To comply, you have to hand over
critical elements like source code and architecture.”  The complaints from the groups, representing companies such
as  Microsoft Corp. ,  Cisco Systems Inc . and  Intel Corp .,
underscore frustration among U.S. multinational companies that
say China is using a web of regulations to discriminate against
foreign competition.  “China’s regulatory environment in many areas is
continuing to become more challenging and less predictable for
foreign companies,”  Jeremie Waterman , the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce’s director for China, said at the hearing.  China’s market is worth $150 billion in annual sales to
U.S. companies when  exports and operations  in China are added
together, making it a top-10 market for American companies,
according to a new estimate by the U.S.-China Business Council.  China has run up a $145 billion  trade surplus  with the U.S.
this year, more than the U.S. deficit with the next seven-
largest trading partners combined. That gap, together with the
drop in American manufacturing employment, the lack of
appreciation in the yuan and this year’s congressional elections
have focused lawmakers’ attention on the commercial
relationship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  