-- China Tells EU to Back Off After Push for Rapid Yuan Gain
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-10-07T05:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/chinese-premier-wen-warns-of-disaster-in-rapid-appreciation-of-the-yuan.html
China stiffened its opposition to a
rapid appreciation of the yuan, setting the stage for a
confrontation over exchange rates at this week’s international
monetary meetings in Washington.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said China will stick to its policy of
gradually increasing the currency’s flexibility and lashed out
at European Union leaders for teaming with the U.S. to pressure
the Chinese government.  “Europe shouldn’t join the choir” clamoring for a higher
yuan, Wen told a business conference yesterday before an EU-
China summit in Brussels. “If the yuan isn’t stable, it will
bring disaster to China and the world. If we increase the yuan
by 20-40 percent as some people are calling for, many of our
factories will shut down and society will be in turmoil.”  China has capped the yuan’s rise at 2 percent since
relaxing a dollar peg in June, leading to criticism that it is
stunting the recovery in the industrial world by shielding its
market from U.S. and European imports.  International exchange-rate diplomacy shifts into high gear
at the Oct. 8 Group of Seven meeting in Washington after China
rebuffed EU and U.S. pleas, the Bank of Japan sought to drive
down the yen by unexpectedly easing monetary policy, and
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  warned of a global
“currency war.”  ‘Brinksmanship’ Game  “There’s a game of brinksmanship being played,”  David Cohen , an economist at Action Economics in Singapore, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “I suspect at the end of the
day the Chinese will agree to return to gradual appreciation of
their currency.”  Non-deliverable forwards indicate the yuan will rise 3.3
percent to 6.4799 per dollar in a year, the most projected by
the contracts since April. The currency traded at 6.6912 in
Shanghai Sept. 30 before China’s markets closed for a holiday.  The 16-nation euro region’s trade deficit with China
widened 6.7 percent to 48.1 billion euros ($67 billion) in the
first half of 2010. The  U.S. deficit  with China widened 16
percent to $119 billion.  Noting that Europe’s exports to China still rose more than
40 percent in the first half, Wen rejected a call by European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  for an “orderly and broad-
based appreciation” of the yuan.  Event Canceled  “If China’s economy goes down, it’s not good for the world
economy,” Wen said. Time constraints were given as the reason
for cancelling a post-summit press conference with Barroso and
EU President  Herman Van Rompuy .  China’s currency policy wasn’t mentioned in a joint
communiqué issued after the summit. In the 11-paragraph
statement, the two sides called for “further concerted
efforts” toward “sound fiscal policies that would guarantee
the sustainability of public finances while being growth-
friendly.”  U.S. impatience with China boiled over on Sept. 29 when the
House of Representatives passed a measure that would let
American companies seek import duties to prevent Chinese
manufacturers from using an artificially weak yuan as a
competitive tool. The measure won’t go to the Senate until after
U.S. congressional elections in November.  Euro’s Climb  The euro has risen 16 percent against the dollar, 14
percent against the yuan, 6 percent against the Japanese yen and
6 percent against the British pound in the past four months. The
four countries bought a third of the euro region’s 1.3 trillion
euros in exports last year.  China’s nudge to the yuan since June has been “not exactly
what we would have hoped ourselves,” European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said this week.  European growth  probably eased from a four-year high of 1
percent in the second quarter to 0.4 percent in the third
quarter and will slip to 0.3 percent in the fourth, the Munich-
based  Ifo institute , Rome-based Isae and Insee in Paris said
yesterday in a joint forecast. The European statistics office
cut its estimate of second-quarter  consumer spending  growth to
0.2 percent from 0.5 percent, indicating the region’s reliance
on exports.  “If the euro continues to bear a disproportionate burden
in the adjustment of global exchange rates, the recovery of the
euro area’s economy might be weakened,” EU Economic and
Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on Oct. 5.  China’s economy will grow 10.5 percent in 2010 and 9.6
percent next year, beating rates of 1.7 percent and 1.5 percent
for the euro region, the International Monetary Fund said
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zijing Wu  in Brussels at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  