-- New Jersey's Christie Says More U.S. Aid May Not Save New Tunnel to N.Y.
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-06T21:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/christie-says-federal-aid-may-not-save-hudson-river-commuter-rail-tunnel.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
said he may cancel construction of a commuter-rail tunnel to New
York, even if the U.S. government offers to cover cost overruns
on the $8.7 billion project.  Christie, 48, suspended work on it last month on concern
that the state couldn’t afford it after a U.S. agency said the
cost may rise by as much as $5 billion. At a press briefing
today in Newark, the governor said he hasn’t determined whether
to kill the tunnel to Manhattan’s Pennsylvania Station.  “We’ve got to decide, given the flaws in this project,
given the benefits the project would have to this region, and
what the costs are, whether it’s something New Jersey taxpayers
can afford,” Christie said. “That’s really as simple as the
analysis is.”  A promise from the U.S. government to pay more won’t
necessarily save it, Christie said. He said he is still awaiting
updated cost estimates on the proposed 8.8 mile (14 kilometer)
tunnel under the Hudson River. It was planned to increase
passenger-train traffic between his state and the city to handle
255,000 riders a day from 170,000 now, according to  New Jersey
Transit , the project manager.  “It would depend on how much money they are talking about
and what the cost overrun is,” Christie said about the offer of
more federal money. “This is a mathematical decision.”  Work on the project, which began in June, is scheduled to
be finished in 2018. New Jersey’s share of the budgeted cost is
$2.7 billion, while the Federal Transit Administration and the
Port Authority of New York & New Jersey both have committed $3
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  