-- Funeral Protest Tests Free-Speech Limits at Top Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-10-06T16:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/church-s-funeral-protest-tests-free-speech-limits-at-u-s-supreme-court.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  grappled with
the limits of the Constitution’s free-speech guarantee, debating
whether it protects protesters who go to military funerals to
proclaim that God is punishing the country by killing soldiers.  Hearing arguments in Washington today, the justices
searched for a possible way to reinstate a $5 million award
against a Kansas minister and his two daughters for disrupting
the Maryland funeral of a Marine who died in Iraq.  The justices gave no clear indication which way they would
rule. They repeatedly pressed Margie Phelps, the minister’s
lawyer and daughter, to agree that a protester in some cases can
be sued for directing offensive speech at a private individual.  “Your position is that you can follow any citizen around
at any point,” Justice  Anthony Kennedy  told Phelps at one
point.  The lawyer’s father, Fred W. Phelps Sr., is the head of the
70-member Westboro Baptist Church, a congregation made up mostly
of his relatives. Phelps and his followers have traveled to
hundreds of military funerals to proclaim that God is angry over
the country’s acceptance of homosexuality, bearing signs that
say, “Thank God for Dead Soldiers,” “Pope in hell,” “God
Hates the USA” and “Fag troops.”  As members of the church demonstrated on the sidewalk in
front of the court, Margie Phelps told the justices that the
protesters were exempt from suit because they had “entered an
ongoing, extensive public discussion.” She described the
congregation as “a little church where the servants of God are
found.”  Other Demonstrations  Margie Phelps wasn’t at the Maryland protest but has taken
part in other demonstrations.  Fred Phelps  and two other daughters are being sued by
Albert Snyder, whose only son, Lance Corporal Matthew Snyder,
died in Iraq’s Anbar Province in 2006.  Phelps and six relatives staged their demonstration 1,000
feet away from the Westminster, Maryland,  Catholic church  where
the funeral was held. The Westboro website later featured an
“epic” that said Snyder and his ex-wife “taught Matthew to
defy his creator” and “raised him for the devil.”  Snyder says he didn’t see the demonstrators that day, only
the tops of their signs. Even so, he says the Phelpses made
their presence felt, forcing a massive police presence that
included a SWAT team and a mobile command center.  Emotional Distress  Snyder sued Fred Phelps and two of his other daughters for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. A jury awarded
Snyder $10.9 million, an amount later reduced by a trial judge.
A federal appeals court in Richmond, Virginia, then threw out
the entire award.  Phelps today drew her strongest support from Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg , who said the demonstration would have been legal
under a Maryland law that was enacted later to restrict protests
near funerals.  “Nothing out of compliance with that statute was done
here,” Ginsburg said.  Phelps got a tougher reception from Justice  Samuel Alito ,
who likened a funeral to a person’s home. The high court has
said that protests can be limited near a home because the
residents are a “captive audience.”  “Why aren’t the members of the families of the deceased a
captive audience at the funeral?” Alito asked.  Alito asked Phelps whether a grandmother of a dead soldier
could sue if she was berated by a heckler at the bus stop after
visiting her grandson’s grave. He later asked whether the First
Amendment would shield someone who confronted a black person
with the contention that blacks are inferior.  Some Protection  Phelps said the First Amendment might provide some
protection because “the issue of race is matter of public
concern.” She said a central issue was whether the targeted
person had made public comments about the issue.  Snyder’s lawyer,  Sean Summers , urged the court to put
limits on the right to free speech at private funerals.  “If ever context is going to matter, it has to matter in
the context of a funeral,” he said.  The case is the second argued before the newest justice,
 Elena Kagan , a former law professor and dean whose academic
focus included the First Amendment. She directed questions to
both sides, asking Summers whether Snyder could have sued had
the protesters simply held signs opposing the war in Iraq.  Among those backing Snyder are 42 U.S. senators, led by
Democratic Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada and Republican
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky.  The American Civil Liberties Union and 21 news
organizations including Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg
News, are  urging  rejection of the award.  The case, which the court will decide by July. is Snyder v.
Phelps, 09-751.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 