-- Cisco to Use Videoconferencing for Consumer Appeal
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-10-06T17:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/cisco-to-use-videoconferencing-to-step-up-appeal-to-consumers.html
Cisco Systems Inc.  introduced a
videoconferencing system aimed at boosting the company’s appeal
to consumers and stepping up competition with Skype Technologies
SA.  The system, called Cisco umi, will let consumers carry out
video chats from high-definition, Internet-connected
televisions. Unveiled at a news conference today in San
Francisco, the device will cost $599 with a monthly fee of
$24.99 for unlimited calling and video messaging and storage.  Cisco, the biggest maker of corporate routers and switches,
has tried to lure consumers by  acquiring  companies including
set-top box maker Scientific-Atlanta Inc. and Pure Digital
Technologies Inc., maker of the Flip video recorder. While the
deals have added revenue, they haven’t gone far to raise Cisco’s
brand awareness among households, said  Jonathan Gaw , an analyst
at research firm IDC.  “It’s difficult for an enterprise company to master the
skills of consumer marketing,” said Gaw, who is based in
Minneapolis. “Even if they come up with a great product,
oftentimes it’s difficult to pivot into a consumer mode.”  Consumer products are part of a division that accounted for
less than a quarter of Cisco’s $40 billion in sales in the
quarter that ended in July. Switches and routers made up more
than half.  Cisco, based in San Jose, California, rose 18 cents to
$22.17 at 1:31 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares
had dropped 8.2 percent this year before today.  Skype, Logitech Competition  The video product introduced today is likely to pit Cisco
against Skype, the largest provider of international calls.
Skype’s 560 million users download the free software and make
calls to other users’ computers, mobile phones and televisions.  Skype customers have grown accustomed to placing low-cost
video calls, said  Jonathan Christensen , a general manager at
Skype. About 40 percent of calls placed over Skype are video
chats and new rivals may not easily amass a large number of
users, he said.  “The question you have to ask yourself when you go out to
buy a $600 device and hook it up to your living room system is,
‘Who are you going to call?’” Christensen said.  Cisco will also face a rival in Logitech International SA,
which today plans to announce that its Google Inc. TV set-top
box will feature videoconferencing for users who own a specially
designed webcam.  Cisco entered the consumer market with its 2003 purchase of
Linksys Group Inc., a maker of home-networking equipment. The
company added more products for the home in 2006 with the
acquisition of Scientific Atlanta.  ‘Heck of a Challenge’  Cisco plans to use Pure Digital’s video software as a
platform for home networking, camcorders and video applications.
That market will grow 50 percent to $60 billion by 2013, Cisco
said this year.  Surging use of video benefits Cisco’s main business since
it creates more Internet traffic, fueling demand for routers and
switches. Global data traffic may more than double every year
through 2013, according to the company.  Cisco sees video as a new area of growth. It sells high-end
videoconferencing to businesses that cost hundreds of thousands
of dollars. This year, it bought Tandberg ASA of Norway to
target the mid-market.  Making the transition from a corporate brand to a consumer
one is “one heck of a challenge,” said  Mark McKechnie , an
analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco. Still, Cisco will
benefit even if the home videoconferencing system isn’t widely
embraced by consumers, he said.  “Cisco wins either way,” said McKechnie, who recommends
buying the  shares  and doesn’t own any. “Ultimately Cisco is
about supporting the network both at the enterprise and carrier
level. They win bigger if they control the product too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 