-- Cocoa May Fall to 19-Month Low After Breaking Support: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/cocoa-may-fall-to-19-month-low-after-breaking-support-technical-analysis.html
Cocoa, down 17 percent this year, may
decline to the lowest price in 19 months should it drop below a
key level, according to technical analysis by Lind-Waldock.  If cocoa falls below a so-called support level of $2,600 a
metric ton this week, the commodity will decline to as low as
$2,200, said  Tom Mikulski , a senior market strategist for the
broker in Chicago. That would be 19 percent below yesterday’s
closing price and the lowest level since March 2009.  The $2,600 level is “a really major stopping block,”
Mikulski said. Traders may sell the commodity amid “lackluster
demand” and signs of a bigger crop from Ivory Coast, the
world’s largest grower, he said.  Cocoa for December delivery fell $22, or 0.8 percent, to
$2,714 a ton yesterday on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  A declining dollar won’t be enough to support the price of
the chocolate ingredient, Mikulski said.  The  Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  jumped 1.6 percent
yesterday, the biggest gain in a month, as the greenback dropped
to the lowest level since January against a basket of six major
currencies. Some traders buy commodities as alternative assets
when the dollar weakens.  Cocoa can’t “hold a rally now, despite a weak dollar,”
Mikulski said.  Among the 19 raw materials in the CRB gauge, only the drop
in natural gas, down 33 percent this year, has exceeded cocoa’s
decline.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  A support level is an area on a chart where technical
analysts anticipate buy orders. A drop below the level may
signal traders have turned bearish.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 