-- VMware, Salesforce Decline on Concern Growth, Mergers May Slow
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-10-08T00:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/computing-stocks-tumble-on-concern-sales-buyouts-are-slowing.html
VMware Inc.  and  Salesforce.com Inc. 
led a decline in corporate-computing stocks for a second day,
weighed down by concerns that an industry merger spree may
falter as slower-than-expected economic growth crimps demand.  VMware  -- the largest maker of virtualization software,
which helps companies use computers more efficiently -- fell 17
cents to $77.39 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Salesforce, the biggest provider of online customer management
software, dropped 3 cents to $104.92.  A run of more than $60 billion in mergers, coupled with a
rebound in corporate-technology spending, had sent share prices
soaring this year. Now companies such as Autonomy Corp. and
Equinix Inc. are scaling back sales forecasts. And high
valuations are hurting the chances of additional deals, said
Cisco Systems Inc. Senior Vice President  Ned Hooper , whose
company is one of the industry’s biggest acquirers.  “The public markets are pricing in premiums that, frankly,
are going to prevent some deals from happening,” said Hooper,
who handles corporate business development. Cisco won’t overpay
for acquisitions, he said. “The companies that are winning in
the market are responsible players.”  Internet-hosting company Equinix, which operates data
centers for companies such as Microsoft Corp., lowered its full-
year sales forecast this week. Yesterday, the  shares  tumbled 33
percent to $70.34, their lowest level in almost 15 months. It
pared some of that decline today, rising 6.6 percent to $75.  Missing Estimates  Autonomy, the second-largest software company in the U.K.,
also cut its annual revenue projection. Its new outlook is 3
percent lower than the current consensus, the company said. The
shares slipped in London trading today, extending yesterday’s 16
percent drop, the biggest since October 2002.  Big technology companies, including Hewlett-Packard Co.,
 International Business Machines Corp. , Cisco, Oracle Corp. and
Dell Inc., have pursued acquisitions to get a bigger piece of
the so-called cloud-computer market. Under the cloud approach,
customers get their software and computer power delivered over
the Internet from remote data centers.  The companies have used takeovers to fill in gaps in their
technology arsenals -- and paid large premiums to seal the
deals.  HP  agreed to spend $2.35 billion for storage company 3Par
Inc. last month after a bidding war with Dell.  HP’s offer was more than three times the $9.65 closing
price for 3Par stock on Aug. 13, before Dell’s bid was made
public. It also was about 10 times 3Par’s revenue over a year.  Taking Stock  “As merger mania appears to slow down, we expect a lull as
investors gauge September quarter results and guidance,”
 Gabriel Lowy , an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc., said
this week in a note to clients.  The computer storage market underwent “an initial
exuberance” after Dell and HP drove up 3Par’s value, said  Mike Workman , chief executive officer at software company Pillar Data
Systems, another potential acquisition target.  “The exuberance is dampened when cooler heads prevail,”
Workman said in an interview.  Shares of corporate-software maker Citrix Systems Inc. rose
31 cents to $60.46 today, following yesterday’s 14 percent
plunge. Citrix was among the companies with the largest gap
between its stock price and analysts’ 12-month forecasts on Oct.
1, according to Bloomberg data.  Akamai Technologies Inc. , a maker of technology that speeds
Internet traffic and is often cited by analysts as a takeover
target, rose 1.8 percent to $45.04 after yesterday shedding 7.6
percent.  Red Hat Inc. , whose Linux software is used in cloud-
computing projects, fell less than one percent to $38.17,
extending yesterday’s 7.7 percent descent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  