-- ADP Estimates U.S. Companies Cut 39,000 Jobs in September
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-10-06T20:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/companies-in-u-s-unexpectedly-cut-39-000-workers-in-september-adp-says.html
Companies in the U.S. unexpectedly
cut jobs in September, data from a private report based on
payrolls showed today.  Employment decreased by 39,000, the biggest drop since
January, after a revised 10,000 rise in August, according to
figures from ADP Employer Services. The median estimate of 37
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 20,000 gain.
Forecasts ranged from a decline of 44,000 to a 75,000 increase.  A loss of jobs raises the risk that consumer spending, the
largest part of the economy, will retrench and halt the
recovery. A Labor Department report in two days will show
companies added 75,000 workers last month, economists project.  “It’s more evidence of a lousy labor market,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in
New York. “Here we are, 18 months into a recovery and we’re not
doing much on the job front. Until we digest the excesses built
up over decades, you’re not going to see sustained gains in jobs
or the overall economy.”  Most stocks dropped and Treasury securities rose as the
report raised concern over the outlook for employment. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to 1,159.97 at the
4 p.m. close in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note, which moves inversely to prices, dropped to 2.39
percent from 2.47 percent late yesterday.  Prior Misses  Over the previous six reports, ADP’s initial figures were
closest to the Labor Department’s first estimate of private
payrolls in May, when it overestimated the gain in jobs by
14,000. The estimate was least accurate in April, when it
underestimated the employment gain by 199,000.  ADP’s initial August estimate showed a 10,000 drop in
private employment compared with the government’s estimate of a
67,000 increase.  “This is a disappointing result,”  Joel Prakken , chairman
of St. Louis-based Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, which produces
the figures with ADP, said of today’s figures on a conference
call with reporters. “It’s going to be a while before
employment really perks up.”  High unemployment, public debt and fragile banking systems
pose risks to global prosperity, according to a report today
from the International Monetary Fund, which urged policy makers
to take bolder steps to assure a sustained recovery.  The Washington-based fund lowered its forecast for U.S.
growth this year and 2011, predicting a “slow” rebound
restrained by a lack of consumer spending.  Geithner’s Outlook  Countries that rely on exports to help lift their economies
must change policies or “global growth will slow and all of us
will be worse off,” U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
said today in advance of this week’s meeting in Washington of
the IMF, World Bank and Group of 20 nations.  Global exchange-rates are a source of contention heading
into the meetings.  “It is very important to see more progress by the major
emerging economies to more flexible, more market-oriented
exchange-rate systems,” Geithner said at the Brookings
Institution in Washington. “This is particularly important for
those countries whose currencies are significantly
undervalued.”  Geithner said the “greatest risk to the world economy
today is that the largest economies underachieve on growth.”  Voter Discontent  The economy is a top issue for voters in the November
congressional elections and polls show the public is
increasingly skeptical of President  Barack Obama ’s performance.
His job approval over a three-day period that ended Oct. 4 was
45 percent, compared with 53 percent at the same time last year,
according to a  poll  from Princeton, New Jersey-based Gallup Inc.  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the U.S.
economy will be “fairly bad” or “very bad” over the next six
to nine months.  “We see two main scenarios,” analysts led by  Jan Hatzius ,
the New York-based chief U.S. economist at the company, wrote in
an e-mail to clients dated yesterday. “A fairly bad one in
which the economy grows at a 1 1/2 percent to 2 percent rate
through the middle of next year and the unemployment rate rises
moderately to 10 percent, and a very bad one in which the
economy returns to an outright recession.”  Hatzius placed the odds of a renewed recession at 25
percent to 30 percent, up from 15 percent to 20 percent at the
start of the year.  The Labor Department’s report on Oct. 8 will also show the
 jobless rate  increased to 9.7 percent from 9.6 percent,
according to the survey median.  Payroll Forecast  Overall payrolls were probably unchanged in September,
reflecting the winding down of cutting federal census workers
who participated in the decennial population count, according to
the Bloomberg survey median.  Today’s ADP report showed payrolls decreased among all
companies, small, median and large, which are those employing
more 499 workers.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. , the New York-based drugmaker,
said last month that it will cut 3 percent of its global
workforce, about 840 jobs, during the next six months. The
company previously announced plans to slash more than $2.5
billion in expenses by 2012, and eliminated 7,000 jobs last
year.  The ADP report is based on data from about 340,000
businesses with more than 21 million workers on payrolls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  