-- Conoco Shakes Up Management Team as Executives Depart
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2010-10-06T21:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/conocophillips-names-hirshberg-svp-planning-and-strategy.html
ConocoPhillips , the third-largest
U.S. oil company, shook up its management team and hired two new
senior executives as it announced that four of its top officers,
including the president and finance chief, are retiring.  Alan Hirshberg , 49, formerly a vice president at  Exxon
Mobil Corp. , is joining the company as a senior vice president
for planning and strategy, Houston-based ConocoPhillips said
today in a statement. Also joining the company is  Greg Garland ,
52, formerly head of ConocoPhillips’s chemicals joint venture
with  Chevron Corp. , who will be senior vice president for
exploration and production in the Americas.  ConocoPhillips is executing a two-year, $10 billion plan to
sell assets as it also cancels refinery projects and works to
sell its interest in Russia’s OAO Lukoil. The company had voids
to fill after several previous executive departures, said  Philip Weiss , an analyst with Argus Research. He said ConocoPhillips
may name a chief executive officer to replace  Jim Mulva  in 12 to
18 months.  “Conoco’s had some hiccups along the way, and they’re
trying to fix things and they had a number of people leave,”
said Weiss, who has a “buy” rating on ConocoPhillips shares
and owns none.  ConocoPhillips said the following executives are retiring
from the company: President  John Carrig ; Chief Financial Officer
 Sigmund Cornelius ;  Stephen Brand , a senior vice president of
technology; and  Kevin Meyers , a senior vice president for
exploration and production in the Americas. The departures are
effective at the end of the year except for Carrig, who will
leave at the end of February, ConocoPhillips said.  Mulva’s Plans  Weiss said he wasn’t “enthused” about the prospect of
Carrig or Cornelius replacing Mulva, 64, as CEO because
ConocoPhillips needs someone with more of an operational
background. One of the executives in today’s news release may
become CEO within a year and a half, Weiss said, and Mulva would
remain chairman. Mulva may retire another 12 to 18 months after
that, Weiss said.  Cathy Cram, a ConocoPhillips spokeswoman, said Mulva’s plan
to stay for several years hasn’t changed. She declined to
comment further on speculation about the timing of his departure
or provide a complete list of ages for executives in today’s
statement. The company has been working on a succession plan for
more than a year to ensure a smooth leadership transition in the
future, Cram said.  Departures  ConocoPhillips has had a number of departures in recent
years, such as  Gregory Goff , a senior vice president who left
this year to become  Tesoro Corp. ’s CEO. In 2009,  Jim Gallogly ,
executive vice president of exploration and production, quit to
become CEO at LyondellBasell Industries. In 2007, Randy
Limbacher, president of exploration and production in the
Americas, decided to leave the company.  Jeff Sheets , who was a senior vice president for commercial
and strategy at ConocoPhillips, will succeed Cornelius as chief
financial officer, the company said.  Willie Chiang , senior vice
president for refining, marketing and transportation, also will
be in charge of commercial business activities.  ConocoPhillips rose 91 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $59.70 as
of 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
 stock  has climbed 17 percent this year.  Exxon Mobil and  Chevron  are the two largest U.S. oil
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 