-- Cooperman Calls PMI a `Survivor' After Disclosing 5.3% Stake in Insurer
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-10-06T19:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/cooperman-calls-pmi-a-survivor-after-disclosing-5-3-stake-in-insurer.html
Leon Cooperman , whose Omega Advisors
Inc. disclosed a stake in mortgage guarantor  PMI Group Inc. ,
said the insurer will rebound after posting 12 straight
quarterly losses.  “We feel they’re a survivor,” Cooperman said in a
telephone interview.  PMI surged as much as 11 percent today after Cooperman
disclosed a 5.3 percent stake in the Walnut Creek, California-
based company in a filing after the close of regular trading
yesterday. PMI and MGIC Investment Corp., another Cooperman
holding, gained more than 50 percent this year on speculation
they are poised to profit from an eventual recovery in the
housing market. The stocks still trade at less than 20 percent
of prices reached in 2006.  “Why does somebody buy a stock? Because they think it’s
undervalued,” Cooperman said. “Housing is in the process of
making an elongated bottom.”  Cooperman joins hedge-fund manager  John Paulson  in
investing in PMI. Paulson’s fund said in August that it bought 5
million shares, for a stake of about 3.1 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S.  unemployment rates  near the highest in a quarter
century depressed the housing market and increased costs at
insurers like PMI that reimburse lenders when borrowers fail to
pay. PMI, MGIC and  Radian Group Inc.  all raised capital this
year through bond or stock sales to cushion against losses.  ‘Going to Stabilize’  “If you buy them, you’re taking the view that housing is
bottomed or going to stabilize, and you’re taking a bet that the
mortgage world is going to recover,” said  Matthew Howlett , an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.  Almost 10 percent of all U.S. home mortgages were
delinquent in the second quarter, according to the Washington-
based Mortgage Bankers Association. Defaults and record
foreclosures have flooded the housing market with excess supply
and helped drive prices down.  “We’re hoping that the administration comes up with some
programs that will stimulate growth and employment,” Cooperman
said.  PMI advanced 20 cents, or 5.5 percent, to $3.87 at 3:13
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading after climbing
as high as $4.09. Milwaukee-based MGIC, the largest U.S.
mortgage insurer, advanced 24 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $9.48.
No. 2 Radian, of Philadelphia, climbed 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  