-- Court Snafu Gives Art Dealer Salander Two Months in Rikers Jail
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/court-snafu-gives-art-dealer-salander-two-months-in-hard-core-rikers-jail.html
In better days,  Lawrence Salander 
lived in a Manhattan townhouse near the Metropolitan Museum of
Art and sold paintings from a townhouse near the Frick
Collection.  Today, the 61-year-old New York art dealer sleeps in a
locked dormitory half a mile from LaGuardia Airport’s Marine Air
Terminal. For two months since he was sentenced to 6 to 18 years
in state prison, Salander has been living in the  Rikers Island 
jail complex, waiting to move on to some long-term facility.  “It’s the slowly turning wheels of a large bureaucracy,”
his lawyer,  Charles Ross , said in an interview. “He’s obviously
looking forward to having the process resolve itself.”  Stephen Morello, a spokesman for the  New York City
Department of Correction , said Salander hasn’t yet been
transferred to the state prison system because of a paperwork
snafu by state court.  “The state refuses to accept an inmate unless all the
paperwork is accurate in its view,” he said.  In March, Salander pleaded guilty to grand larceny and
fraud. He admitted to selling artworks he didn’t own and
pocketing the proceeds to settle his own debts and the
gallery’s. The Manhattan District Attorney’s office said he
stole about $120 million.  Salander has seven children from two marriages. His lawyer
said at the sentencing that Salander was a recovering alcoholic
addicted to narcotics who could become suicidal in jail.  One enters Rikers, the second-largest U.S. jail system,
after a three-minute taxi ride from LaGuardia to Hazen Street
and 19th Avenue in a leafy corner of Queens. From there a city
bus or private  van  traverses an extended causeway to a small bus
terminal.  Kross Center  Salander is at the Anna M. Kross Center, named for the
first female commissioner of the Department of Correction. It’s
the largest facility on Rikers, with about 2,700 men. Visitors
entering the terminal pass through a metal detector, and those
bound for Kross were directed to waiting area nine. About two
dozen people were lined up there on a recent afternoon, most of
them black and Latina women, several with children.  After an officer issued a paper boarding pass with a
visitor’s and inmate’s name, it was about an hour’s wait for a
white bus, which was standing-room-only by the time I got on.  Following a short, winding drive, we arrived at Kross. An
officer guided us through another metal detector, and a drug-
sniffing mutt gave each person a twice-over.  Inside was a room with blue plastic chairs and lockers, the
last step before visitors meet with inmates.  “If you go beyond this point with tobacco or money, you
will be arrested,” says a sign with black letters. “Period.”  That day, Salander exercised a remaining freedom and
declined to meet with me, a correction officer said.  Violent Crimes  Life may be particularly challenging for him at Kross,
where most men are awaiting trial, some for violent crimes.
There are as many as 50 men sleeping in a single room. Salander
isn’t in an individual cell, as are some inmates, according to
the Correction Department.  “Because he’s not a young black or Hispanic male
affiliated with a gang, he stands out like a sore thumb,” said
 Jennifer Wynn , an assistant professor of criminal justice at
LaGuardia Community College in Queens and author of the 2001
book “Inside Rikers.” “People will look at him and see one
thing -- money.”  Adjusting to the loss of control is another challenge.  “You’re told when to sleep, when to eat,” she said.
“It’s the chaos, it’s the noise. It’s the rules, half of which
will make no sense to you.”  No Bidders  Salander and his gallery declared bankruptcy in November
2007, and for much of the past two years he lived on his 66-acre
Millbrook, New York, property. Salander paid $1.1 million for it
in 1997. It was to be auctioned yesterday at U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Poughkeepsie, with a minimum price of $2.5 million.  There were no bidders. The property includes two houses, a
cement tennis court, a swimming pool and a now-overgrown
baseball diamond.  In April 2008, U.S. Bankruptcy Court first proposed selling
it for $6.25 million. The Salander family’s townhouse recently
went for about $14 million, down from its original listing of
$25 million.  Creditors of Salander and the gallery haven’t yet received
money. Given the plunge in real-estate prices nationwide and
disappointing sales for the Renaissance-era art Salander
collected, their expectations are low.  “There is a lot of stuff beyond people’s control in this
case,” said Thomas Genova, the trustee overseeing the Salander
family bankruptcy.  The criminal case is People v. Salander, 09-03581, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 