-- Credit Agricole Plans to Raise $293 Million in First Kangaroo Bond Sale
-- B y   L i s a   P h a m
-- 2010-10-07T02:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/credit-agricole-plans-to-sell-at-least-a-300-million-of-bonds.html
Credit Agricole SA , France’s third-
largest bank by market value, began marketing at least A$300
million ($293 million) of three-year notes in its first sale of
kangaroo bonds.  The notes are expected to price tomorrow subject to market
conditions, according to an e-mailed statement from Commonwealth
Bank of Australia, which is helping to manage the  sale  with
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., Credit Suisse Group
AG and RBC Capital Markets.  Foreign issuers have sold A$31.3 billion of kangaroo bonds
this year, approaching the record A$32.4 billion in 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
became the first non-supranational or agency issuer to sell the
securities since 2008, with an A$1 billion offering in March.
HSBC Holdings Plc and Bank of America Corp. have followed.  “The Aussie dollar basis swap is quite attractive for
offshore issuers coming here,”  Mark Reade , a credit strategist
at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney, said by phone today. “Diversifying
their funding base is also quite important.”  The basis swap, which measures the cost of exchanging
greenback-based debt for Aussie dollars, closed at 22 basis
points yesterday after averaging 10.6 basis points in the past
10 years. Borrowers typically use cross-currency basis swaps to
exchange floating-rate payments in one currency to another.  The swap rose to a record 50 basis points on Nov. 26, due
to an increase in U.S. dollar bond sales by Australian banks.
That meant kangaroo bond sellers -- who make the opposite
transaction -- got the biggest-ever discount.  Kangaroo bonds are Australian-dollar notes sold by foreign
issuers in Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 