-- Crude Declines From Five-Month High Before U.S. Government Supply Report
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2010-10-06T12:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/crude-declines-from-five-month-high-on-concern-prices-aren-t-sustainable.html
Oil fell from a five-month high
before a government report that may show U.S. crude supplies
rose last week while traders bet that crude’s rally made the
commodity too expensive.  Crude earlier reached its highest price since May 4 after a
report yesterday showed U.S. gasoline inventories dropped last
week by the most since May 2009. The Energy Department may say
today crude  supplies rose  by 413,000 barrels, a Bloomberg News
survey shows. Oil’s 14-day relative strength index rose above
70, a sign that prices may drop after rising too far, too fast.  “There is some optimism in the market that inventories are
decreasing and the oversupply is shrinking,” said Sintje Diek,
an HSH Nordbank analyst in Hamburg. “This is an overreaction by
the oil market. The higher prices are not sustainable.”  Crude for November delivery traded at $82.71 a barrel, down
11 cents, or 0.1 percent, on the New York Mercantile Exchange at
1:08 p.m. London time. It earlier climbed as much as 51 cents to
$83.33 a barrel. Brent crude for November settlement traded at
$84.71 a barrel, down 13 cents, on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London.  New York futures rose 1.7 percent yesterday after the
Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-manufacturing
businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the U.S. economy,
climbed to 53.2 from 51.5 in August. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected the index would advance to 52.  Crude’s 14-day relative strength index, a measure of how
fast prices have risen or fallen in that period, was at 70.1
today. A reading of 70 or more can be taken as a sign that a
market is “overbought” and prices may drop.  Inventory Reports  U.S.  crude stockpiles  climbed by 4.44 million barrels last
week, the biggest gain in five weeks, the American Petroleum
Institute said yesterday. Today’s Energy Department report may
show inventories rose by 413,000 barrels, based on the survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Crude prices may reach $85 to $95 a barrel by the end of
this year as stockpiles decline in the U.S., the world’s biggest
oil-consuming nation, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  U.S. supplies may fall because of demand for products from
emerging markets including China, Goldman said in a report
yesterday. An economic recovery will probably cause inventories
to decline to “more normal” levels by early 2011, it said.  “While U.S. implied oil demand remains firm, we believe
that the decline in U.S. net oil imports is the main driver of
the draw on U.S. total petroleum inventories,” wrote Goldman
analysts, led by New York-based  David Greely . “Strong growth in
emerging-market demand is beginning to tighten the U.S. supply-
demand balance.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  