-- Currency Tensions Don't Yet Amount to `War,' Morgan Stanley Economist Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-10-06T19:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/currency-tensions-don-t-yet-amount-to-war-morgan-stanley-economist-says.html
A lack of retaliation indicates
central Banks have not entered an international “currency war,”
according to Morgan Stanley.  Tensions about exchange rate policies prompted Brazil’s
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to warn on Sept. 27 of a
“currency war,”  after Japan sold the yen last month for the
first time in six years to spur exports and economic growth.
Japan joined South Korea, Taiwan, Brazil, and Switzerland as
countries that have intervened in the currency markets temper
their currencies against the dollar to stay competitive.  “The story of a currency war doesn’t sound far-fetched,”
 Joachim Fels , Morgan Stanley’s co-chief of global economiics
wrote in a report today. “However, one crucial ingredient that
would suggest we are in a currency war still seems to be missing
- retaliation.”  London-based Fels said emerging markets are undergoing a
“measured approach to managing currency appreciation”
paralleling policy moves made the Federal Reserve, the European
Central Bank, the Bank of England and the Bank of Japan in the
wake of the financial crisis in late 2008.  Market Forces  Emerging markets are dealing with rapid capital inflows,
the need to tighten monetary policy and the desire to keep their
currencies from appreciating further, Fels wrote. This has led
to a “three-way dilemma whereby policy makers can choose only
two policies out of a trio of: pegged or managed exchange rate,
free flows of capital, and independence of monetary policy.”  The U.S. dollar has fallen against 20 of the 25 most-traded
emerging market currencies this year, amid record-low interest
rates and speculation that the Fed will buy more U.S. assets to
spur a slowing economy. World Bank President  Robert Zoellick 
said yesterday in a conference call with reporters that he
didn’t think “we’re moving into an era of currency wars, but
there’s clearly going to be tensions.”  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said today in Ottawa
that countries are concerned that measures being taken around
the globe to weaken currencies are distorting markets and trade.  “There is a danger here that countries that do have
currencies that trade in a market, that trade freely, are
disadvantaged by certain interventions that are made by other
countries and by inflexibility by certain currencies,” said
Flaherty, who will chair a meeting of Group of Seven finance
ministers in Washington on Oct. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  