-- Delta Targets $2 Billion in `Free Money' From Repairs, Freight
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/delta-targets-2-billion-in-free-money-from-repairs-freight.html
Delta Air Lines Inc.  is taking on
more maintenance work for other carriers in-house and working to
expand its cargo business in a bid to boost revenue from those
services to $2 billion within three years.  The world’s second-largest airline plans to reach $1
billion in revenue from aircraft repairs, almost doubling 2009’s
total, and the same amount in cargo sales, a 27 percent
increase, two executives said in interviews.  Delta is taking advantage of the broader network created by
its 2008 purchase of Northwest Airlines Corp., which allowed it
to charge more for cargo. The deal also gave Delta expertise in
working on  Airbus SAS  jets, not just  Boeing Co.  planes, to help
it expand in its maintenance business as U.S. rivals pull back.  “It’s free money, and a smart way for Delta to take
advantage of its natural strengths after the merger,” said
 Michael Derchin , a CRT Capital Group LLC analyst in Stamford,
Connecticut, who  recommends  buying the shares.  Adding cargo and maintenance sales would help Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  narrow the gap with  United
Continental Holdings Inc. , the company that displaced Delta as
the world’s largest carrier by traffic after the Oct. 1 merger
of UAL Corp.’s United Airlines and Continental Airlines Inc.  Delta posted $28.06 billion in 2009 revenue, compared with
$28.9 billion for  Continental  and  UAL  combined. Their cargo
total together would have been $902 million. Atlanta-based Delta
led North American carriers in maintenance revenue in 2009 and
had the U.S. industry’s biggest freight business, at $788
million, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Freight Forecast  Freight revenue will be $850 million to $875 million this
year, said  Neel Shah , the vice president in charge of Delta
Cargo, who outlined the $1 billion revenue target. Anderson and
President  Ed Bastian  view cargo as a pillar of their efforts to
end two straight annual losses, Shah said.  “Whether that profitability comes from cargo or passenger,
they’re indifferent about that,” he said.  Shah said that even as Delta cut capacity by parking the
last 10 of Northwest’s  Boeing 747 freighters , which averaged
about 30 years old, the airline was able to more than double its
cargo profit margins to “well north of 50 percent” because a
bigger network and improving economy helped pump up rates.  A Tokyo hub acquired through the Northwest purchase lets
Delta ship auto parts and electronic components by  Motorola Inc. 
and  Intel Corp.  between Asia and Latin America on routes neither
airline had on its own, Shah said.  ‘Tremendous Amount’  “I don’t only have to talk about trans-Atlantic, one lane
in the Pacific and Latin America,” he said. “We talk the
world, and that really gives you a tremendous amount of
leverage.”  That hasn’t helped the shares this year. Delta has risen  4
percent  in 2010, closing at $11.83 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, to trail the 17 percent gain for the
11-carrier  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index . The carrier also may
face more competition for passengers from Southwest Airlines
Co., which agreed on Sept. 27 to buy  AirTran Holdings Inc. 
Atlanta is home to AirTran’s biggest operations.  Anderson’s strategy for expanding the maintenance, repair
and overhaul business, known as MRO, diverges with steps by
rivals including Continental, Southwest and  US Airways Group
Inc.  to use contractors for much of that work.  U.S. airlines outsourced about 43 percent of maintenance
expenses last year, up from 31 percent a decade earlier,
government data show.  Repair Revenue  Delta took in $508 million in MRO revenue in 2009, up from
about $200 million just a decade earlier, said  Tony Charaf ,
president of Delta’s TechOps unit. The business has been
profitable each year since 2005, with margins now in the “high
single digits to low double digits,” Charaf said.  That compares with a profit margin last year of 8.3 percent
for the largest airline-owned maintenance operation, Deutsche
Lufthansa AG’s Technik, according to the carrier’s annual
report. Technik posted 3.96 billion euros ($5.22 billion) in
2009 revenue.  The global MRO market was about $42 billion last year,
according to industry publication AviTrader. Delta’s competitors
include maintenance specialists such as  AAR Corp.  and  Timco
Aviation Services Inc. ; planemakers Boeing and Airbus; and
engine manufacturers such as  General Electric Co.   Charaf said Delta has won business because of its
expertise, parts inventory and quick turnarounds, with overhaul
time on some engines cut to as few as 20 days, less than half as
long as required several years ago. Delta also performs routine
maintenance and projects done while jets are parked at airport
gates, such as replacing burned-out lights.  Gol, Hawaiian  Customers include Brazil’s  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes
SA  and  Hawaiian Holdings Inc. ’s Hawaiian Airlines, which put a
$500 million value on a multiyear contract awarded to Delta in
2009 to service Boeing and Airbus jets.  “For Delta, taking that MRO work in lets them equalize
their workloads instead of having peaks and valleys” around its
own maintenance needs, said Marc Wilson, a former maintenance
executive at  AMR Corp. ’s American Eagle unit.  Outsourcing maintenance and repairs typically costs about
15 percent more than doing the job in-house, said Wilson, who is
director of safety, quality and asset management at consultant
Morten Beyer & Agnew in Arlington, Virginia. The catch is that
companies can only achieve the savings by investing in equipment
and people, he said. Delta’s TechOps has 9,200 employees.  “It’s a wave of the future for a number of airlines that
have already a substantial maintenance infrastructure,” said
Hawaiian CEO  Mark Dunkerley . “They are all looking for ways to
better use the infrastructure that they have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 