-- Deutsche Bank Names Goldman's Kuppenheimer Co-Head of Equity Structuring
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2010-10-06T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/deutsche-bank-names-goldman-s-kuppenheimer-co-head-of-equity-structuring.html
Deutsche Bank AG hired  Greg Kuppenheimer  of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as a managing director
and co-head of equity structuring for North America, at least
the third senior-level hire from its U.S. rival in two months.  Kuppenheimer will be based in New York and report to  Amit Bordia , head of the equity structuring group, according to  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank,
Germany’s largest lender. Kuppenheimer was co-head of equity
structured products and a managing director at New York-based
Goldman Sachs, Calabro said.  Deutsche Bank is expanding its equities business in the U.S.
as  Anshu Jain , who took over as the firm’s sole head of the
corporate and investment bank in July, spends 1.6 billion euros
($2.2 billion) on hiring and technology over two years to gain
market share in U.S. equities and commodities.  Kuppenheimer will be responsible for helping to create
structured notes, over-the-counter derivatives and other
products, Calabro said. Structured notes are bonds that have
been bundled with derivatives, or contracts whose value is
derived from stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  Deutsche Bank has sold $1.5 billion of structured notes to
U.S. investors this year, the seventh-highest total among banks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That doesn’t include
private placements, or sales to institutions that aren’t
reported to regulators.  Kuppenheimer also will be head of structured equity sales
in North America in the company’s markets division, where he
will report to  Derek Capanna , head of institutional equity sales
for North America.  Deutsche Bank in August hired  Ted Wasserman  away from
Goldman Sachs to be head of equity derivatives flow sales for
North America and last month retained  Marcelo Pizzimbono , also
from Goldman Sachs, as head of New York research sales. The firm
in July also appointed  Dixit Joshi , formerly of Barclays Plc, as
head of equities for Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Zeke Faux  in New York at   zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 