-- HDFC Asset's Jain Says Indian Stock Markets Close to `Being Fairly Valued'
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-10-06T15:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/hdfc-asset-s-jain-says-indian-stock-markets-close-to-being-fairly-valued-.html
India’s stock markets, trading at
their highest in more than 2 1/2 years, are approaching fair
value,  Prashant Jain , chief investment officer at HDFC Asset
Management Co., said at an event in Mumbai today.  “The markets are close to being fairly valued,” said Jain,
who oversees six of the 15 best-performing Indian funds during
the past decade. “It is almost after three years that markets
have crossed 20,000. In three years, the economy has grown and
many companies have grown meaningfully.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark  Sensitive Index  rose
135.37, or 0.7 percent, to 20,543.08 today, approaching a record
high as foreign investors bought more shares than they sold for
a 25th straight day amid optimism the nation’s growth will boost
corporate earnings.  Overseas  funds  bought a net  9.7 billion rupees  ($217
million) of Indian equities yesterday, extending this year’s
record inflows to 939.7 billion rupees, according to the
nation’s market regulator.  “If you take a three- to five-year view, then returns
should be in line with earnings growth rate,” Jain said.
Returns of as much as 20 percent from a diversified portfolio of
equities are not very difficult to achieve and the markets are
not overvalued, he said.  Best Performer  This year’s 18 percent rally makes the  Sensex  the best
performer among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets. Foreign
fund inflows have surged 59 percent this year, making the gauge
the most expensive in Asia and among the BRIC markets that also
include Brazil, Russia and China. Gross domestic product
expanded 8.8 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the most
among major economies in Asia after China.  “The Indian economy is going to quadruple in the next 10
to 12 years,”  Sunil Singhania , head of equities at Reliance
Capital Asset Management Ltd., India’s biggest money manager,
with $23 billion in assets, said on Sept. 29. “Foreign inflows
will continue over the next five to six years.”  The gains have made India the most expensive among the
world’s 20 largest stock markets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Stocks on the Sensex are valued at  19.5 times 
earnings, compared with 13.7 times for Brazil’s  Bovespa Index ,
7.8 times for Russia’s  Micex Index  and 15.1 times for China’s
 Shanghai Composite Index , among the so-called BRIC markets.  HDFC, with $21 billion in assets, is India’s second-largest
money manager.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  