-- Diabetics With Severely Low Blood Sugar Have Higher Death Rates
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-10-06T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/diabetics-with-episodes-of-severely-low-blood-sugar-have-higher-death-rate.html
Diabetics who experience episodes of
dangerously low blood sugar levels are more likely than those
who don’t to develop a host of complications and die within five
years, researchers found.  Those with Type 2 diabetes who experienced severe
hypoglycemia were more likely in the study to have heart
attacks, strokes, eye problems, kidney damage and die than those
who didn’t have an episode, according to research  published 
today in the New England Journal of Medicine.  Hypoglycemia 
occurs when blood sugar in the body drops so much it causes
fatigue, weakness and even unconsciousness.  About  23.6 million  children and adults in the U.S., or 7.8
percent of the population, have diabetes, according to the
American Diabetes Association. It is unclear whether
hypoglycemia causes the complications seen in the study or
whether it is just a marker indicating the impact of the
diabetes, the authors wrote.  “What we might be doing is just identifying people who are
very sick,”  Simon Heller , a study author and a professor of
clinical diabetes at the University of Sheffield in the U.K.,
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We have to be a
little cautious in saying that hypoglycemia causes death.
Nevertheless, hypoglycemia is bad news.”  Diabetes  occurs when the body is unable to metabolize sugar
to make fuel for cells’ energy. If unused sugar builds up in the
bloodstream, it can cause complications such as eye disease and
kidney damage.  Lowering Blood Sugar  Physicians often try to reduce diabetics’ blood sugar to a
level close to normal in the hopes of  preventing  heart attacks
and strokes, Heller said. Research such as that published today
shows that in some patients lowering blood sugar too much may
instead cause heart attacks and even death.  “This assumption that lower is better may not be the case
and that’s really an important clinical message,” Heller said.
“You don’t want to keep pushing people down and down because
there may be side effects with the treatment, of which
hypoglycemia is one.”  Heller said hypoglycemia makes the body release the hormone
adrenaline, which can be harmful to those with heart problems,
causing an increase in their heart rate that may trigger a heart
attack or lead to death.  Today’s findings support the diabetes association’s
recommendations that doctors make individual assessments of how
much to lower a patient’s blood sugar, said Sue Kirkman, the
group’s senior vice president of medical affairs and community
information in Alexandria, Virginia.  Severe Hypoglycemia  Researchers in the study looked at the link between severe
hypoglycemia and the risk of heart attack, stroke, eye damage,
kidney disease and death in 11,140 patients with Type 2
diabetes, the most common form of the disease.  In the study, 231 patients, or 2.1 percent, had 299 severe
episodes of low blood sugar over five years.  Those who had hypoglycemia were 3.5 times more likely than
those who didn’t to have a heart attack or stroke, about 2.2
times more likely to suffer from eye damage or kidney disease
and about 3.3 times more likely to die from all causes, the
study showed.  Doctors should look at a patient’s entire medical picture
to identify why hypoglycemia is occurring, said  Matthew Riddle ,
a professor of medicine at Oregon Health and Science University
in Portland, who wasn’t involved in the study. Their condition
may be influenced by behavioral factors like diet and stress,
along with the medicines they’re taking to treat their diabetes,
Riddle said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Individual Assessments  Spyros Mezitis , an endocrinologist at Lenox Hill Hospital
in New York, said doctors may decide to treat each diabetic
patient differently when assessing how far to lower their blood
sugar to prevent episodes of severe hypoglycemia.  “Now, because of these kind of data, we are worried about
hypoglycemia causing heart attack and death, so we are more
careful and tailor the treatment to the patient,” Mezitis, who
wasn’t an author of today’s paper, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “If a patient has a history of coronary artery
disease, we’re going to be careful to not cause any hypoglycemia
in that patient. If the patient is a healthy person who has
diabetes, we’re going to be more aggressive with our controls.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  