-- AnnTaylor, Itron, Motorola, Philip Morris: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-10-06T12:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/diamond-foods-equinix-m-t-rackspace-savvis-yum-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of 7:50 a.m.  Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  (ANF US): The teen clothing
retailer was given a new “outperform” rating at FBR Capital
Markets Corp. The 12-month price estimate is $49.  AnnTaylor Stores Corp.  (ANN US): The women’s apparel chain
was given a new “outperform” rating by FBR Capital Markets
Corp. and added to its list of top stock picks.  Constellation Brands Inc.  (STZ US): The world’s largest
winemaker said it had second-quarter profit of 52 cents a share
excluding some items, beating the 49 cent average estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Diamond Foods Inc.  (DMND US): The nut processor and
distributor said 2011 profit excluding some items may be as low
as $2.38 a share, compared with the average analyst estimate of
$2.45 a share.       Equinix Inc.  (EQIX US) fell 23 percent to $80.89. The
operator of Internet data centers said third-quarter sales were
no more than $330 million, compared with the average analyst
estimate of $336.6 million.  Savvis Inc.  (SVVS US) and  Rackspace Hosting Inc.  (RAX US)
are Equinix’s competitors.  General Maritime Corp.  (GMR US): The provider of seaborne
crude-oil transportation services cut its quarterly dividend to
1 cent a share from 8 cents as it amended a credit facility.  Itron Inc.  (ITRI US): The largest U.S. maker of utility
meters was raised to “hold” from “sell” at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co.  Lockheed Martin Corp.  (LMT US): The world’s largest defense
contractor said its F-35 Joint Strike Fighter resumed flight
tests after corrections were made to a software flaw with the
jet’s fuel pumps.  M&T Bank Corp.  (MTB US) slipped 3.7 percent to $80. Allied
Irish Banks Plc said it will start selling its 22.4 percent
stake in the Buffalo, New York-based lender, valued at $2.2
billion, in a U.S. public offering.  Maidenform Brands Inc.  (MFB US): The maker of women’s
undergarments was cut to “hold” from “buy” at BB&T Corp.  Motorola Inc.  (MOT US): The communications-equipment maker
may spin off its mobile-phone business early in the first
quarter of next year, co-Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Jha said
in an interview.  OGE Energy Corp.  (OGE US): The owner of Oklahoma’s electric
and gas utility and ArcLight Capital Partners LLC said they
agreed for an ArcLight affiliate to acquire a 9.9 percent equity
ownership stake in Enogex, OGE Energy’s midstream natural gas
pipeline subsidiary.  Philip Morris International Inc.  (PM US): The world’s
largest publicly traded tobacco company said it will review
conditions set forth by Colombia’s superintendent of industry
and trade on its proposed purchase of Productora Tabacalera de
Colombia, Protabaco Ltda. A decision is expected within the next
three months, Philip Morris said in a statement.  Riverbed Technology Inc.  (RVBD US): The maker of computer
backup and networking equipment was given a new “hold” rating
at Soleil Securities Corp. The 12-month price estimate is $40.  Team Inc.  (TISI US): The provider of industrial services
posted first-quarter earnings excluding some items of 20 cents a
share, beating the average analyst estimate by 43 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.       Yum! Brands Inc.  (YUM US): The owner of the KFC and Taco
Bell restaurant chains reported third-quarter profit of 73 cents
a share excluding some items, matching the average analyst
projection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 