-- Dollar Drops to a 15-Year Low Versus Yen, Eight-Month Low Against the Euro
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-10-06T21:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/dollar-drops-to-a-15-year-low-versus-yen-eight-month-low-against-the-euro.html
The dollar slumped to a 15-year low
against the yen after a private report showed U.S. companies
unexpectedly cut jobs last month, fueling speculation the
Federal Reserve will buy U.S. assets to spur a slowing economy.  The euro touched an eight-month high against the greenback
before a Labor Department report in two days that may show
lower-than-forecast job growth. The Dollar Index fell to levels
last seen in January as the U.S. central bank is forecast to
join the Bank of Japan in increasing purchases of government
debt to spur growth. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
a “damaging dynamic” of large economies keeping their
currencies undervalued can cause inflation and asset bubbles.  “Since the Fed, it has been a one-way street for the
dollar and the euro and yen are the most liquid, easiest avenue
to trade dollar weakness into,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of
market analysis at Schneider Foreign Exchange in London. “The
dollar looks fragile with quantitative easing. The euro and the
yen are doing the heavy lifting for dollar weakness.”  The dollar declined 0.4 percent to 82.93 yen at 5:31 p.m.
in New York, from 83.22 yesterday. It touched 82.77, the weakest
level since May 1995 and less than the low of 82.88 on Sept. 15,
when Japan sold yen to weaken its value to protect an export-led
recovery.  The dollar depreciated 0.7 percent to $1.3930 per euro, the
weakest since Feb. 3, from $1.3839 yesterday. The yen declined
0.3 percent to 115.53 per euro, from 115.16.  Relative-Strength Index  The seven-day relative-strength index for the euro against
the dollar increased to 79.7, staying above 70 for 13
consecutive days. A reading above 70 indicates the currency may
fall. This is the longest streak at this level for the euro
since 18 days in March 2008.  The yen’s seven-day relative strength rose for the second
day to 76.4.  The Swiss franc strengthened to a record against the
greenback. The franc has gained 20 percent since June 1 as
investors avoid the volatility in the dollar.  The Swiss currency gained as much as 0.7 percent to 95.99
centimes per dollar.  The Brazilian real was the weakest major currency against
the dollar as Brazil’s Treasury won authorization to step up
dollar purchase for debt payments as the government increases
efforts to temper the real’s rally.  Double Tax  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  this week doubled a tax on
foreign purchases of fixed-income securities in a bid to temper
currency gains that pushed the real to two-year high yesterday.  The real weakened 0.9 percent to 1.6788 per dollar from
1.6632 yesterday.  Companies in the U.S. unexpectedly cut 39,000 jobs in
September, according to figures from ADP Employment. The median
of a Bloomberg News survey of 37 economists projected 20,000
added jobs. A Labor Department report Oct. 8 may show the
jobless rate probably rose in September for a second month as
the year-old U.S. recovery failed to generate enough jobs to
keep up with a growing labor force, according to another survey
of 80 economists.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, reached 77.301 today, the lowest since Jan.
19.  “The negative dollar, this has been the big market driver
and will continue to be,” said  Marc Chandler , global head of
currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York.
He said the Japanese will not intervene in the currency market
before the G7 meeting scheduled for Oct. 8 in Washington.  China Role  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said a rapid increase of the
yuan would hobble China’s economy. Wen said in Brussels today
that China will stick to its policy of gradually increasing the
currency’s flexibility and faulted European leaders for teaming
with the U.S. to pressure the Chinese government.  China’s central bank set its yuan reference rate at 6.6805,
0.15 percent lower than yesterday and the strongest level
against the dollar since the currency was first pegged in 1993.  China and its neighbors in the region will need to adopt
“appropriate appreciation” of their currencies to bolster
incomes and purchasing power, the International Monetary Fund
said. European Commission President  Jose Barroso  joined the call
to China today saying the country needs an “orderly and broad-
based appreciation” of the currency.  Currency ‘War’  “Wars is not a great way to think about this, I think the
word war implies that there is something unusual going on,”
said  Daniel Katzive , a currency strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG, in an interview with  Margaret Brennan  on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness.” “We’ve had a few instances in weak
dollar in the past couple of years. The central banks who are
intervening are those who have been intervening over the past
decade.”  The euro may fall against the dollar if a deal is reached
at the IMF’s meeting in Washington this weekend to allow Asian
currencies to rise against the greenback, according to BNP
Paribas SA.  “Should there be a deal in Washington suggesting Asian
currencies to appreciate at a faster pace up to their fair
values, dollar weakness would be re-channelled away from
European currencies,” strategists led by  Hans-Guenter Redeker 
in London, wrote in a research report today.  Geithner, Flaherty  “More and more countries face stronger pressure to lean
against the market forces pushing up the value of their
currencies,” Treasury’s Geithner said in a speech today at the
Brookings Institution in Washington.  Geithner’s comments echoed calls by the IMF for greater
currency flexibility as part of an effort to encourage more
balanced global growth, with emerging nations relying less on
exports and developed countries curbing their appetite for
imported goods.  “It’s going to be difficult to get a group as diverse as
the G20 to come out with some concrete guidance,” said Credit
Suisse’s Katzive. “It will more or less be every man for
himself.”  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told reporters in
Ottawa countries are concerned that measures being taken around
the globe to weaken currencies are distorting markets and trade.  “We don’t want these kind of distortions in currency
values or distortions in trading relationships,” said Flaherty
disadvantaged by certain interventions that are made by other
countries and by inflexibility by certain currencies,” said
Flaherty, who will chair a meeting of Group of Seven finance
ministers in Washington on Friday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  