-- Dollar Reaches 15-Year Low Versus Yen on Expecation Fed to Bolster Economy
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i
-- 2010-10-07T14:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/dollar-trades-near-15-year-low-against-yen-on-u-s-yields-fed-speculation.html
The dollar dropped to a 15-year low
against the yen and touched the weakest in more than eight
months against the euro amid growing expectations the Federal
Reserve will expand credit easing to sustain the U.S. recovery.  The Australian dollar surged to a record after a government
report showed the nation added more jobs than economists
forecast. The pound rose to $1.60 for the first time since
February as data showed U.K. manufacturing expanded more than
forecast and the Bank of England refrained from increasing a
bond-buying program. The euro reached $1.40 for the first time
since February as European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said exchange rates should reflect economic
fundamentals.  “Expectations of lower U.S. rates are weighing on the
dollar,” said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. in London. “The Fed is moving down the
line of quantitative easing, and money is clearly moving away
from the dollar into credible alternatives.”  The dollar depreciated 0.7 percent to 82.32 yen at 10:18
a.m. in New York and weakened as far as 82.11 yen, a day after
the Japanese currency gave up all the decline since the Asian
nation’s intervention in foreign-exchange markets last month.  The U.S. currency traded at $1.3928 per euro after reaching
$1.4029, the weakest level since Jan. 28. The yen stood at
114.66 per euro, compared with 115.53.  The pound appreciated 0.3 percent to $1.5939, from $1.5890,
after touching $1.6018, the highest since February. The Bank of
England kept its main interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent.  Precious Metals  The  Dollar Index , used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the U.S. currency against those of six trading partners,
fell as low as 76.906, the least since Jan. 15.  The ECB kept the main refinancing rate at a record low of 1
percent, as predicted by all 52 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Trichet said at a press conference in Frankfurt that
rates are “appropriate” and the recovery “should proceed at a
moderate pace.” He also said he supports a “strong dollar”
and opposes “disorderly” shifts in global exchange rates.  “Dollar weakness is the bigger story,” said  Jane Foley ,
senior foreign-exchange strategist at Rabobank International in
London. “Trichet said nothing to throw the trend in euro-dollar
off course. He reiterated the ECB has a price-stability mandate,
and that’s a reminder that there are upside risks to inflation.
There’s a strong possibility the ECB will be hiking interest
rates potentially many months before the Fed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  