-- Drinks Are Free as Bartenders Refill Punchbowl: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-10-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/drinks-are-free-as-bartenders-refill-punchbowl-william-pesek.html
It has been 13 years since the Bank
of Japan was freed from the clutches of politicians. What has it
done since? Cut interest rates to zero and left them there.  If that’s your definition of “independence” then it’s
different from mine. Sure, the BOJ managed to boost rates here
and there -- even getting them as high as 0.5 percent. It has
since relented. This week, it bowed anew to politicians’ demands
to lower its 0.1 percent benchmark toward zero.  Japan doesn’t cut rates. It shaves them. This predicament
puts Japan at the center of a dangerous trend: the death of
central-bank independence. The ramifications for credit markets
will be huge.  Six months ago, it was possible to say we’re in crisis,
extreme measures are needed and central banks are doing their
part. Now, we must accept that ultra-low borrowing costs will be
with us for a while because governments will make sure of it.  Take the world’s other main monetary authorities. In
Washington,  Ben Bernanke  would be called to Capitol Hill the
moment the Federal Reserve even hinted at reining in liquidity.
Calls for his resignation would pave the way for legislative
efforts to install a more agreeable Fed chairman.  Jean-Claude Trichet  wouldn’t have one angry government
looking over his shoulder if the European Central Bank
considered tighter policy. The ECB president has 16 member
nations to think about. And, of course, Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan 
has no independence at the People’s Bank of China.  Fuzzy Lines  The BOJ may be the vanguard of a fresh round of central-
bank action to prop up the global economy as recoveries falter.
It’s a reminder that the lines between central bankers and
politicians have rarely, if ever, been fuzzier. They are about
to get even blurrier as the effects of massive fiscal  stimulus 
fall short and politicians get desperate.  Yet with all the calls for a return of free-market
fundamentalism and budget cuts in the U.S., the Fed won’t have
much latitude to move away from near-zero rates.  Our romantic notions about autonomous central bankers have
long been a bit much. Take the Fed under  Alan Greenspan . In
December 1996, Greenspan spooked investors with questions about
“irrational exuberance” in stocks. Politicians like then-
Senate Majority Leader  Trent Lott  went absolutely ballistic.  Bubbles Abound  Greenspan left asset prices alone after that -- to
disastrous effect. If only he displayed a bit more independence,
the bubbles that inflated and burst in the early and late 2000s
might not have been created.  Central-bank freedom is steadily being curtailed. Concerns
that the global economy will follow the BOJ’s trajectory are
pointless. The world’s main monetary powers already are like
Japan. Just imagine the outcry Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  would face if he raised interest rates. It would be
politically impossible as lawmakers try to cut spending.  And like Japan, free money isn’t getting much traction.
Japan’s rates have been near zero for 15 years and the country
is still fighting deflation. The Fed is toying with another
round of quantitative easing as hundreds of billions of dollars
of public spending fail to lower the U.S. jobless rate.  Notice that there’s less and less talk of exit strategies
in markets. Investors are wondering how policy makers can
possibly begin soaking up all the money with which they have
flooded the globe, while governments are so on edge.  Hand in Glove  In Japan, a great premium is placed on fiscal and monetary
authorities working hand-in-glove. The lines get mighty blurry
when central banks start gobbling up private-sector assets such
as corporate debt, commercial paper, exchange-traded funds and
real-estate investment trusts.  Things get messy as central bankers get creative with their
roles and unwinding the tentacles will be difficult. Lawmakers
whose supporters will get hurt when central banks withdraw
liquidity may cry foul. Credit markets could seize up again. New
bubbles might appear and moral-hazard risks could increase. Once
growth returns, it will have an artificial quality based more on
monetary stimulants than healthy demand.  Replacing old bubbles with new ones always ends badly. Even
more so than a year ago, central bankers are acting like
reckless bartenders enabling markets. Doling out more and more
booze gets politicians off your back, yet the hangover will be
nasty. The drinks are free, but the fallout won’t be.  Low rates are taking the onus off governments to fix
financial systems. The half-hearted nature of reforms in the
U.S. is but one example. The new Basel III regulations for bank
capital requirements give them as long as eight years to comply
in full. Lots can go wrong in markets between now and 2018.  There was a time when central banks could get away with
painful and politically unpopular measures. We don’t live in
such a time, though, and the nature of markets will never be the
same. That goes, too, for the nature of tomorrow’s bubbles,
which will be more spectacular than yesterday’s.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  