-- Dubai Credit Default Swaps Drop to Lowest Since Dubai World's Debt Delay
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-10-06T14:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/dubai-credit-default-swaps-drop-to-lowest-since-dubai-world-s-debt-delay.html
Credit default swaps linked to Dubai
fell to the lowest since state-owned Dubai World sought to delay
debt repayments in November as investors gain confidence in the
emirate’s economic recovery and global stocks rallied.  Default swaps tied to Dubai government debt narrowed 32
basis points to 385.74 yesterday, the lowest close since Nov.
24, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year
contracts rose to a record 977 basis points in Feb. 17, 2009,
before the United Arab Emirates’ central bank bought $10 billion
of Dubai bonds.  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
business groups, said Nov. 25 it would seek to delay repaying
loans until at least May 30. The announcement sparked a plunge
in developing-nation stocks and the largest increase in
emerging-market bond yields over U.S. Treasuries in four weeks.
The cost to protect against a default by Dubai doubled.  “Investors are buying into the Dubai recovery story,”
 Farouk Soussa , Dubai-based economist at Citigroup Inc., said in
a telephone interview. Stimulus measures by central banks are
“driving a search for yield and appetite for riskier assets, so
investors are coming to the market to buy what gives them a high
yield and that’s working in Dubai’s favor.”  Dubai last month received orders of about $5 billion for
its two-part bond sale in which it raised $1.25 billion. It was
the emirate’s first sovereign issue since Dubai World sought to
renegotiate debt repayments on $24.9 billion. “We are back. Of
course we are back,”  Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum , the
emirate’s ruler, told Bloomberg Television on Sept. 27.  Borrowing  The emirate and its state-controlled entities borrowed $109
billion to transform itself into a regional tourism and
financial hub, according to estimates by the Washington-based
International Monetary Fund. Abu Dhabi, which holds about 7
percent of the world’s proven oil reserves, and the U.A.E.
government lent Dubai about $20 billion last year as the
sheikhdom struggled to repay debt after credit markets froze.  Global stocks rallied with the  MSCI World Index  extending
yesterday’s 2 percent gain. The Bank of Japan unexpectedly cut
interest rates Oct. 5 and said it would buy as much as $60
billion of assets to keep the economy from faltering, increasing
speculation that other central banks will take similar steps.
 The Dubai Financial Market General Index  gained 0.9 percent, the
biggest advance since Sept. 26, to 1,704.91 at the 2 p.m. close
in the emirate today.  Credit default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 