-- Dubai Shares Gain Most in Two Weeks on Stimulus Speculation, Ruler Comment
-- B y   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 2010-10-06T13:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/dubai-shares-gain-most-in-two-weeks-on-stimulus-speculation-ruler-comment.html
Dubai shares rose the most in almost
two weeks after the emirate’s ruler expressed optimism about the
economy and as stocks rallied worldwide on speculation central
banks will increase efforts to stimulate global economies.  Emaar Properties PJSC , the builder of the world’s tallest
tower, gained to the highest in a week and  Dubai Financial
Market , the only publicly traded Gulf Arab stock market
operator, climbed 1.7 percent. The  DFM General Index  gained 0.9
percent, the biggest advance since Sept. 26, to 1,704.91 at the
2 p.m. close in the emirate.  Global stocks rallied with the  MSCI World Index  extending
yesterday’s 2 percent gain. The Bank of Japan unexpectedly cut
interest rates Oct. 5 and said it would buy as much as $60
billion of assets to keep the economy from faltering, increasing
speculation that other central banks will take similar steps.
Credit-default swaps tied to Dubai government debt dropped
32 basis points to 386 yesterday, the lowest since the beginning
of the Dubai World debt crisis. Asian bond risk fell to the
lowest in five months.  “The U.S. and global markets’ rally yesterday” lifted
stocks, said  Saad al-Chalabi , an institutional trader at Al Ramz
Securities LLC in Abu Dhabi. Yesterday’s “drop in the Dubai
CDS is significant.”  Dubai’s Ruler  Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum  said
yesterday “matters are back to normal” in the Persian Gulf’s
trade and tourism hub after the global financial crisis. His
comments were aired by Al Arabiya television.  Crude for November delivery traded at $82.64 a barrel at
5:18 p.m. in Dubai. It earlier climbed as much as 0.6 percent to
$83.33 a barrel, the highest price since May 4. The six Gulf
Cooperation Council countries, including the United Arab
Emirates, hold about 40 percent of global proven oil reserves.  Dubai World  Dubai World, one of three main holding companies controlled
by Sheikh Mohammed, said Sept. 10 that 99 percent of creditors
agreed to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of debt. Dubai
amassed $109 billion in debt to turn itself into a financial,
logistics and tourism hub, with about $15.5 billion due this
year, the International Monetary Fund estimates.  Emaar rose 0.8 percent to 3.79 dirhams. Dubai Financial
Market jumped 1.7 percent to 1.80 dirhams.  Abu Dhabi’s  gauge  advanced 0.7 percent and Saudi Arabia’s
 Tadawul All Share Index  increased 0.3 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index 
added 0.6 percent and the  Kuwait SE Price Index  gained 0.1
percent. Bahrain’s  measure  and Oman’s  MSM 30 Index  were little
changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahraa Alkhalisi  in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  