-- EasyJet Jumps Most in 20 Months as Profit Beats Target
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-10-06T09:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/easyjet-september-passenger-numbers-rise-8-pretax-profit-ahead-of-plan.html
EasyJet Plc , Europe’s second-biggest
discount airline, said full-year profit beat its predictions on
surging demand for flights to beach resorts and European cities
and lower-than-expected losses from the Icelandic ash cloud.  EasyJet gained as much as 11 percent, the biggest jump in
20 months, after the Luton, England-based carrier said pretax
profit for the year ended Sept. 30 was “slightly ahead” of a 150
million-pound ($239 million) top-end forecast issued on May 11.  Revenue  per seat increased about 6 percent in the fiscal
year’s final quarter on a constant currency basis, while the ash
cloud which closed European airspace in April will clip earnings
by 5 million pounds less than feared, EasyJet said. Glitches
with operational performance persist and the carrier will pay 6
million pounds in compensation for cancellations in September.  “The guidance is encouraging, especially with the hits
they’ve had from the volcano and the disruption to flights,”
said  John Strickland , an aviation analyst director at JLS
Consulting Ltd. in London. “But there’s no doubt that they
still have a lot of internal operational work to do.”  EasyJet shares climbed 40.8 pence to 427.7 pence, the most
since Jan. 22, 2009, and were trading at 423.9 pence as of 10:24
a.m. in London, taking gains this year to 20 percent and valuing
the company at 1.82 billion pounds.  Traffic Surge  Chief Executive Officer  Carolyn McCall , who took over in
July, said in a statement that EasyJet had delivered a “robust”
financial performance in a tough trading environment. Progress
has been made toward “stabilizing” operations, which have been
disrupted by crewing shortages, even amid strike action by air
traffic controllers in France, Spain and Greece, she said.  EasyJet’s passenger total rose 8 percent to 4.77 million in
September from a year earlier. The load factor, a measure of
seat occupancy, advanced 1.2 percentage points to 89.3 percent.  The carrier had previously said that pretax profit would be
in the range of 100 million pounds to 150 million pounds for the
full year, and that the eruption of Iceland’s Eyjafjallajökull
volcano would wipe 65 million pounds from earnings.  Punctuality Push  CEO McCall, 49, who joined from Guardian Media Group Plc,
has said she plans to improve EasyJet’s punctuality while
undertaking a review of the carrier’s operations prior, the
results of which are due to be revealed next month.  “The earnings upgrade is a positive but it’s also clear
that operational difficulties remain,” said  Douglas McNeil , an
analyst at Charles Stanley with at “sell” rating on the stock.  JLS’s Strickland said he’s “waiting with interest” for
the results of the strategy review and publication of more
detailed financial figures on Nov. 16.  McCall also inherited a spat between former CEO  Andy Harrison  and EasyJet’s founder and largest shareholder  Stelios Haji-Ioannou , who opposes plans to carry on adding planes and
routes, favoring modest expansion and the payment of a dividend.  The entrepreneur is also locked in a legal tussle with
EasyJet and has accused the company of overstepping the terms of
its brand-licensing agreement with his own EasyGroup company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  