-- Heating Oil Profit Doubles Gasoline on Exports: Energy Markets
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2010-10-07T16:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/heating-oil-profit-doubles-gasoline-on-u-s-export-surge-energy-markets.html
The profit from turning crude into
heating oil and diesel fuel has jumped to almost double that for
gasoline as U.S. exports to Europe and South America climb.  Heating oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange,
which trade as a surrogate for diesel, increased 13 percent in
the third quarter, helping to drive the profit from producing
heating, industrial and trucking fuel to almost three times what
it was a year ago. A port workers strike in Marseille, France,
also led to a shortage of fuel supplies in southern Europe.  “It’s reflecting something of real value,” said  Ed Morse ,
head of commodities research at Credit Suisse Group AG in New
York. “Diesel demand is strong, heating oil as well. Europe is
structurally short of distillate for the winter.”  Exports to Europe and South America are being bolstered by
evidence that growth in some of the continents’ biggest
economies is accelerating. Gross domestic product in  Germany ,
Europe’s biggest consumer of heating oil, will expand 3.4
percent this year, according to the European Commission.
Argentina’s will  increase  8.3 percent, the median of eight
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  The profit from refining crude into heating oil, the so-
called crack spread, was $13.06 a barrel at 12:26 p.m. today,
based on Nymex futures, compared with $7.36 for gasoline. The
corresponding spreads were $5.24 and $2.68 a year ago. On ICE
Futures Europe, the margin for gasoil, the equivalent of heating
oil, was $12.26 a barrel, compared with $9.21 a year earlier.  Diesel Cargoes  The supply of gasoil, a category of fuel that includes
heating oil and diesel, in independent storage in Europe’s
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub is 17 percent below
a year earlier, according PJK International BV data, reflecting
the region’s growing use of the fuel.  Supplies may fall because of a strike began Sept. 27 at the
Fos and Lavera terminals, stranding 51 vessels and forcing
refiners to cut production. Six refinery crude-units in France
and one in Switzerland are running at minimum rates in an effort
to avoid halting operations entirely, according to Union
Francaise des Industries Petrolieres, a refiners’ organization.  The disruption could mean a loss of about 90,000 barrels a
day of gasoil production, according  Christophe Barret , a London-
based analyst at Credit Agricole.  Diesel demand in 16 European Union countries this year will
be about 3.68 million barrels a day, up from 3.6 million in
2009, according to  Andrew Reed , an analyst at Energy Security
Analysis Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts. In June, July and
August, demand for heating oil in Germany was 387,000 barrels a
day, up from 255,000 a year earlier, Reed said.  ‘Roaring Back’  “Demand for diesel and heating oil in northwestern Europe
came roaring back this year,” Reed said. “The U.S. has a lot
of low-sulfur diesel.”  Shipments to Europe are also growing as traders seek to
profit from price differences between the two regions through a
so-called open arbitrage. Ultra-low sulfur  diesel  in the Gulf
Coast spot market averaged over September was $2.1489 a gallon,
or about $676.81 per metric ton, compared with $693.48 for
cargoes delivered into  Northwest Europe , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, while freight costs were about $11.75 per
ton.  “There are a number of cargoes going to Europe from the
Gulf Coast,” said  Andrew Lebow , senior vice president for
energy at MF Global Inc. in New York. The arbitrage to Europe
“is open and when you get a window, you take advantage of it,”
he said.  Crack May Narrow  The heating oil crack spread may narrow once European and
U.S. refineries increase  rates  by the end of this month and
focus on producing diesel, according to  James Cordier , portfolio
manager at OptionSellers.com. The difference between November
heating oil and gasoline was 13.86 cents a gallon as of 12:27
p.m. in New York, after reaching a 13-month high of 20.73 cents
on Oct. 1.  “The 20-cent difference is probably about as wide as it
can get,” said Tampa, Florida-based Cordier, who manages more
than $100 million. “The harvest season and maintenance season
will be over. But this rally has a little bit of legs yet.”  Between 45 percent and 47 percent of U.S. oil is  refined 
into gasoline, said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC, a Houston-based energy consultant. Between 25
percent and 29 percent is turned into distillate.  “You can adjust one at the expense of the other while
staying within those ranges,” Lipow said. “In 2008, they went
to 29 percent distillates in some of the months” when the
heating oil crack spread was more than $36 a barrel.  About 328,000 barrels a day of refining capacity has been
offline in Europe this quarter, compared with 206,000 last year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. In the U.S.,
about 465,000 barrels a day of capacity was out of action,
versus about 304,000 a year earlier.  ‘Good Times’  “We’ll have a couple more weeks of good times,” said
 Francisco Blanch , head of commodity research at Bank of America
Merrill. “Within three weeks, the trade to think about is long
gasoline and short heating oil.”  U.S.  exports  have trimmed inventories in states along the
Gulf of Mexico by 7.3 percent in four weeks, eating into a
surplus, according to Energy Department data released yesterday.  U.S. supplies of distillates as of Oct. 1  were  22 percent
above the five-year average for the period amid forecasts for
higher-than-average temperatures. The Weather Channel’s WSI
Corp. forecast northeast and central U.S. states will record
warmer-than-normal temperatures from October to December.  Valero Energy Corp. , the second-largest U.S. refiner,
exported one-fourth of its Gulf Coast production this year, the
company said in a Sept. 29 presentation to analysts. Most of
those shipments were distillate bound for Latin America, said
Bill Day, a spokesman for San Antonio-based Valero.  “Demand for diesel will rebound faster than the demand for
gasoline,” Day said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barbara Powell  in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  