-- Japanese, U.S. Scientists Share Chemistry Nobel for Carbon Link
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2010-10-06T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/heck-suzuki-negishi-win-nobel-chemistry-prize-for-linking-carbon-atoms.html
Two Japanese scientists and an
American researcher whose work paved the way for new medicines
and plastics won the  Nobel Prize  in Chemistry for developing
tools to synthesize carbon-based molecules found in nature.  Richard F. Heck , 79, of the University of Delaware in
Newark, Delaware,  Akira Suzuki , 80, of Hokkaido University in
Sapporo, Japan, and  Ei-Ichi Negishi , 75, of Purdue University in
West Lafayette, Indiana, will share the 10 million-kronor ($1.5
million) award, the  Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences  said in
Stockholm yesterday.  The researchers won for finding “more efficient ways of
linking carbon atoms together to build the complex molecules
that are improving our everyday lives,” the academy said in a
statement. The painkiller naproxen, a generic sold in the U.S.
under the brand name Aleve, Merck & Co.’s allergy treatment
Singulair and  Boscalid , a fungicide made by BASF SE, are some of
the chemicals made possible by their work.  The Heck, Suzuki and Negishi reactions, known as palladium-
catalyzed cross coupling, allow chemists to join whole molecules
at lower temperatures and with less waste than earlier
processes, said David Phillips, president of the U.K.’s Royal
Society of Chemistry.  “This was just great chemistry,” Joseph Francisco,
president of the American Chemical Society, said in a telephone
interview. “The award is well deserved. The fundamentals are so
widely used; they have increased the toolbox of any chemist.”  ‘It Can Happen’  Negishi went to bed after midnight last night in Indiana
and was sound asleep when the Nobel call came at 5 a.m. local
time. He moved to the U.S. to attend graduate school at the
University of Pennsylvania in 1960.  “I was dreaming about this prize half a century ago,” he
said by phone to the Nobel news conference. “When I came to
America and when I encountered several Nobel laureates coming to
UPenn in Philadelphia, I realized it’s not a story but it’s a
reality, and it can happen to anyone including myself.”  Negishi said his work is only half over, and he plans to
use the prize money to fulfill his research. “I’m interested in
all organic molecules and synthesizing them in the best possible
way,” he said.  He doesn’t own any patents on the cross-coupling technique.
“In this way I feel more people feel free to make use of what
we come up with,” he said.  Building Blocks  Heck, Suzuki and Negishi worked separately in the 1960s and
1970s to develop reactions using palladium that enabled chemists
to use molecules as building blocks for larger structures,
according to the Nobel statement.  “This is a fine example of beautiful work done in
parallel,” said Francisco, who works at Purdue with Negishi.  Last year’s prize in chemistry went to  Venkatraman Ramakrishnan , of the U.K.;  Thomas A. Steitz , of the United
States; and  Ada E. Yonath , of Israel, for their work on how the
DNA code is translated into life, findings that have been used
to fight infectious disease.  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
 Alfred Nobel , the Swedish inventor of dynamite, who died in
1896. The Nobel Foundation was established in 1900 and the
prizes were first handed out the following year.  Andre Geim  and  Konstantin Novoselov  won the Nobel Prize in
Physics on Oct. 5 for discovering graphene, a one-atom-thick
“wonder material” that may transform electronics, allowing for
speedier computers and folding touchscreens.  On Oct. 4,  Robert G. Edwards , a British physiologist and
pioneer in reproductive medicine, won the Nobel Prize in
Medicine for developing in-vitro fertilization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;
 Allison Connolly  in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 