-- Ecuador President Correa Says U.S. `Extreme Right' May Be Behind Protests
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-10-06T19:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ecuador-president-correa-says-u-s-extreme-right-may-be-behind-protests.html
The “extreme right” in the U.S. may
be behind recent protests in Ecuador and may have provided
financial support to opposition political parties trying to
destabilize the government, President  Rafael Correa  said.  The Obama administration, which supported Correa and called
for an end to violence during a Sept. 30 police uprising, had
nothing to do with the protests, Correa told reporters today at
the presidential palace in Quito. The government has no evidence
of ties between the protesters and U.S. groups and hasn’t
accused any specific organization of involvement, Correa said.  Ecuador, South America’s seventh-biggest economy, remains
under a state of emergency after police demonstrating against
wage cuts trapped the president in a hospital for several hours
as they demanded changes to a new public service law. Correa,
who said he was the target of a coup attempt, accused former
President  Lucio Gutierrez  and his brother Gilmar’s January 21
Patriotic Society Party, known as PSP, of fomenting the unrest
that left eight people dead and 274 injured.  “The Patriotic Society and Gutierrezes are clearly behind
this,” Correa told foreign journalists. Non-governmental
organizations representing the “extreme right” in the U.S. may
be financing opposition political parties and may have been
involved in the protests, he said.  Chavez Accusations  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , in his Oct. 3 weekly
column “The Lines of Chavez,” said the U.S. was behind the
failed uprising in Ecuador and that the U.S. administration is
supporting coups against an alliance of Latin American left-wing
countries, known as the Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas, or
ALBA, which was formed by Chavez to counter U.S. influence in
the region.  Gilmar Gutierrez , brother of Lucio Gutierrez and head of
the PSP in congress, denied Correa’s accusations, saying the
president was trying to eliminate his strongest political
opponents.  “The accusations against us are absurd and ridiculous,”
Gutierrez said today in a telephone interview from Quito. “They
are pursuing innocent people. There wasn’t an attempted coup,
this was a simple protest by police.”  No formal charges have been filed against either of the
Gutierrez brothers, Gilmar Gutierrez said.  Correa said he will use the “victory” over the opposition
to push political and economic reforms in the Andean nation,
pledging today to “deepen and radicalize the citizen’s
revolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at   ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  