-- Hedge Funds Will Triple Within Decade Amid Low Bond Yields, SkyBridge Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-10-06T13:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/hedge-funds-will-triple-within-decade-amid-low-bond-yields-skybridge-says.html
The $1.6 trillion hedge-fund industry
will triple in size in the next 10 years as investors try to
limit stock market risk while seeking higher returns than bonds
offer, said  Anthony Scaramucci  of SkyBridge Capital.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has lost 20 percent in the
last three years. While U.S. corporate bonds returned 27 percent
over that period, their yields fell to a record low 4.59 percent
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Hedge funds returned 1.45 percent on average this year
through August, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research.  Investors including pension managers will be enticed by
hedge funds offering “lower risk with moderate to higher
returns,” said Scaramucci, a managing partner at SkyBridge, a
money manager that oversees $7.4 billion in assets and also
invests in hedge funds. U.S. corporate pensions have fallen
behind future payouts to retirees by the most in a decade,
according to actuarial firm  Milliman Inc.   “They need higher returns than what the fixed-income
markets are giving them,” Scaramucci said in an interview at
the Capital IQ conference in New York yesterday, as Treasuries
fell to 1.37 percent, the lowest ever, index data show. “What’s
really going to move the needle for hedge fund allocations will
be pensions.”  The gap between the assets of the 100 largest company
pensions and their projected liabilities widened by $108 billion
in August from the previous month to a $459.8 billion deficit,
Seattle-based Milliman said Sept. 14 in a statement.  Missing the Mark  In fiscal 2009, fewer than half of the 50 state retirement
systems had enough assets to pay for 80 percent of promised
benefits, according to data compiled for the Cities and Debt
Briefing hosted by Bloomberg Link in New York on Sept. 15. Two
years earlier, only 19 missed the mark.  Illinois covered just 50.6 percent of benefits last year,
the lowest so-called funded ratio, which actuaries say shouldn’t
be less than 80 percent.  Hedge funds pulled in a net $23 billion in the first half
of this year, according to Hedge Fund Research. At that rate,
this would be the third-worst year for attracting deposits since
2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  