-- Egypt's Sodic to Start Two Residential Projects in Syria by Year's End
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-10-06T09:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/egypt-s-sodic-to-start-two-residential-projects-in-syria-by-end-of-year.html
Six of October Development &
Investment Co. , Egypt’s third-biggest publicly traded developer,
may start two housing projects in Syria by the end of this year,
a senior executive said.  “There is huge potential in Syria,” Ashraf Farid, the
company’s operations director, said in an interview in Dubai
yesterday. “We are looking to launch a couple of projects
towards the end of the year, early 2011.”  Six of October, also known as Sodic, plans to begin its
first development in Syria on 500,000 square meters (5.4 million
square feet) of land, Farid said. It will also complete a
project already started by Damascus-based Palmyra Real Estate
Development Co., in which Sodic bought a 50 percent stake for
$40.5 million in June.  Economic growth in Egypt is helping boost developers’
earnings. Sodic reported its first quarterly profit since 2008
in August, while rival  Palm Hills Developments SAE  reported a 37
percent increase in sales in the same quarter. Egypt’s first-
quarter economic growth will be at least 5.5 percent, Economic
Development Minister Osman Mohamed Osman said yesterday.  Sodic’s Syria unit has a land bank of 2.9 million square
meters, representing 19 percent of the company’s total, Farid
said. The Syrian investment will contribute to the Egyptian
developer’s bottom line in two to three years, Sodic Chief
Financial Officer  Ahmed Dabbous  said last month.  Sodic fell 0.2 percent to 93.38 Egyptian pounds at 10:09
a.m. in Cairo trading, valuing the company at 3.4 billion pounds
($594 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net 
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 