-- Lehman’s Do-Over Quest Runs Against Facts in Court: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-10-06T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/lehman-s-do-over-quest-runs-into-facts-in-court-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
Barclays Plc was something of a hero
two years ago, having stepped forward to buy much of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. when no one else would touch the bankrupt
brokerage.  It was a risky play, and if the market hadn’t recovered,
the weight of Lehman’s failures might have dragged Britain’s
third-biggest bank under with it.  So when  Barclays  not only held on but bounced back to reap
enormous profits last year, seller’s remorse settled in over at
Lehman. As its trustee divvyed up its assets for creditors while
trying to find more, it seemed that the deal had turned out
better for Barclays than it should have.  Lehman sued, claiming Barclays had reaped an undeserved
“windfall” of $11 billion in the way it accounted for some of
the assets, underpaid for others and took assets it wasn’t
supposed to get. It did so, in part, by changing the terms of
the deal after the fact, according to Lehman.  Barclays denies this and counters that Lehman owes it $3
billion.  The two have been fighting over this in court for the past
five months, sporadically because of court recesses. They are at
it still.  But Lehman’s got two big problems with its case. First, as
Bloomberg’s  Linda Sandler  wrote yesterday, the judge at trial in
U.S. bankruptcy court in Manhattan is  James Peck , the same one
who approved the deal. Because of time pressures, the complexity
and volatility of the matter and the dire economic consequences
of delay, he granted rare leeway to Barclays and Lehman to
modify terms after he approved them.  Unprecedented Request  Now, Lehman wants Peck to revoke the sale, a request so
radical that bankruptcy experts can think of no time when it has
ever happened in this type of case. How could Peck do that
without acknowledging he blundered in the biggest bankruptcy
filing ever?  Second, Lehman’s own $990-an-hour bankruptcy lawyer,  Harvey Miller  of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP in New York, disagrees with
key aspects of Lehman’s arguments. He isn’t handling the
litigation, but was called to testify by the lawyers who are.  To support his bankruptcy client’s position in the
litigation, Miller would have to say that Barclays pulled a fast
one on him. And he’d have to say he was wrong in 2008 when he
went along with modifications to the original agreement without
alerting Peck.  So if Lehman is right in its case against Barclays, then
its top-of-the-line bankruptcy lawyer goofed in a rather big
way.  He conceded nothing of the sort in his testimony in April.  “I am very proud of what happened,” Miller said, citing
the jobs saved and the calming effect the sale had on roiling
financial markets.  More Complicated  Beyond needing a reversal of judgment from the trial judge
and admission of bad counsel from the lead bankruptcy lawyer,
Lehman faces a more essential problem as it tries to squeeze
another $11 billion out of Barclays: Just because the deal
turned out better for  Barclays  than expected doesn’t mean Lehman
deserves a do-over.  Lehman says its position is more complicated than that, of
course. It claims that Barclays took an unwarranted discount on
Lehman’s assets, negotiated by Lehman personnel seeking jobs at
Barclays, and kept it secret from the judge.  As for an accounting gain, Miller testified that it was
already publicly known and didn’t alter the meat of the deal,
anyway. It didn’t need to be specifically reported to the judge.  Likewise, both sides agreed, and so did the creditors, that
the post-deal deal as reflected in a Letter of Clarification
wasn’t a significant enough change to take back to Peck for
review.  ‘Melting Ice Cube’  Peck had been on the bench for less than three years when
the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history hit his docket, valued at
$639 billion at the time.  It had to be handled at lightning speed because the health
of the already shaky U.S. economy hung in the balance, federal
authorities were saying, hands wringing.  And the more time that passed, the more the value of
Lehman’s assets sank. “A melting ice cube” is how Miller
described them at trial.  So on Saturday, Sept. 20, 2008, five days after Lehman’s
collapse, Peck approved the brokerage’s sale to  Barclays .  He said in that order that Lehman and Barclays could amend
or supplement any of the sale documents without court approval,
if the changes would have no “material adverse effect” on
Lehman’s estate, and as long as creditors, Lehman and Barclays
all agreed.  Two days later, on Monday, Sept. 22, the parties filed the
Letter of Clarification that changed the terms in ways Lehman
says were significant. No one sought Peck’s approval, or even
made sure he knew about it.  Lehman says the eventual deal was so different from the one
Peck saw that he should have been called into it.  Among those who disagree is Lehman’s lead bankruptcy
lawyer.  There’s always a chance that the domestic team will have
home court advantage over the Brits at trial.  But if Lehman agreed to terms it now regrets, too bad. It’s
fortunate that Barclays showed up at all.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  