-- Eisai, Novartis Drugs Get Backing for Mild Alzheimer's From U.K. Agency
-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e
-- 2010-10-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/eisai-novartis-drugs-gets-backing-for-mild-alzheimer-s-in-u-k-.html
Patients with mild Alzheimer’s
disease should take  Eisai Co. ’s Aricept, Johnson & Johnson and
Shire Plc’s Reminyl or Novartis AG’s Exelon, a U.K. agency said,
softening a ruling that limited access to those drugs to people
with a more-advanced form of the disease.  The  U.K.’s National Institute for Health and Clinical
Excellence  said it revised the guidance after research showed
how much the drugs help patients even in the early stages of the
disease. NICE advises the National Health Service on the cost-
effectiveness of treatments, which influences what doctors
prescribe and what local authorities fund.  “Since we published our guidance in September 2007
clinical trials have continued to show the positive effects of
these drugs,”  Andrew Dillon , NICE’s chief executive, said in an
e-mailed statement today.  The brain-wasting disease affects about 465,000 people in
the U.K., according to the  Alzheimer’s Society , a London-based
non-profit group. While there is no cure, drugs can help
alleviate symptoms. Patients who have helped bring attention to
the condition in the U.K. include the best-selling novelist
 Terry Pratchett , who filmed a program chronicling his experience
with the disease for the British Broadcasting Corporation.  “This decision stands to benefit hundreds of thousands of
People,” Ruth Sutherland, chief executive of the Alzheimer’s
Society, said in the NICE statement. “The drugs aren’t a
miracle cure but they can make important differences. For the
price of a cup of coffee they can mean the difference between
recognizing your loved ones and playing with your
grandchildren.”  NICE recommended Aricept, Exelon and Reminyl for mild to
moderate Alzheimer’s. The agency also backed  H. Lundbeck A/S ’s
Ebixa for people with severe Alzheimer’s and those with a
moderate form who are intolerant to other drugs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marthe Fourcade in Paris at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  