-- Telecom Italia, Wind Fight Over Foreign Workers Calling Home
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2010-10-06T22:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/telecom-italia-wind-fight-over-foreign-workers-calling-home-to-spur-sales.html
Abdou Diop, a 30-year-old native of
Senegal who sells books on Africa near the Duomo cathedral in
Milan, says he and his fellow immigrants love the interest
they’re drawing from Italy’s phone companies.  “There is lots of competition among mobile companies for
us and we’re bombarded with offers, but we’re happy they give us
attention and help us stay in touch with family and friends at
home,” said Diop, who’s been in Italy for five years and
subscribes to a Telecom Italia SpA mobile-phone offer.  Telecom Italia  and  Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA  are among
companies vying for immigrant clients, seeking to lock in
revenue from international calls as the domestic market cools.
There are about 5 million immigrants in Italy, according to a
June report by the  Censis research institute , after a 47 percent
increase in the past four years.  The so-called ethnic phone market is worth more than 1
billion euros ($1.38 billion) a year, according to Fabrizio
Gorietti, head of consumer marketing at Telecom Italia, the
country’s biggest phone company. Phone operators are enticing
ethnic subscribers through advertisements in native languages
featuring foreign  celebrities , from Chinese actress Niu Li to
half-Moroccan crooner Malika Ayane.  “Immigrant clients are making operators’ mouths water as
they are worth much more than traditional users in terms of
traffic,” Giuseppe Albeggiani, co-founder and managing director
of Rome-based  Etnocom , a consulting firm specializing in
immigrant sales, said in an interview. “With as little as 2 to
3 percent of their advertising budgets, phone companies can
generate incredible business.”  Bolstering Sales  Telecom Italia’s  TIM Card Romania  allows callers to phone
the country for 6 cents a minute, with a connection charge of 16
cents. Wind’s “Call Your Country” offer lets users call China
and India for 5 cents a minute, plus a 4 euro charge every six
months.  Vodafone Group Plc ’s “One Nation” offer in Italy lets
users make calls to more than 40 countries at 10 cents a minute,
with a connection charge of 19 cents.  In the U.K., France and Spain, the ethnic segment has also
become attractive to phone companies as the traditional services
market is saturated and competition erodes margins.  Madrid-based  Telefonica SA , Europe’s second-biggest phone
company, offers immigrants plans for international calls in
Spain and through its O2 units in the U.K. and Germany. In the
second quarter, sales from its domestic unit slid 3.2 percent.  Competing for Calls  Telecom Italia’s domestic  mobile revenue  fell 11 percent in
2009 and 9.4 percent in the first six months of 2010, forcing
the company to focus on parts of the market that are growing.  Milan-based Telecom Italia has a market share of 20 percent
in the ethnic segment, according to Gorietti.  “This business is extremely interesting and will keep
growing strongly in the future because of the migration
streams,” Gorietti said in an interview. “Immigrants want
easy, good-value, no-frills tariffs.”  Wind, controlled by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ,
was the first operator to tap this market in Italy in 2003,
Maximo Ibarra, director of its consumer business unit, said in
an interview.  “We’re the market leader in this segment with a share
higher than 50 percent,” Ibarra said. “Competition has
increased in recent months but we haven’t lost market share.”  Immigrants want cheap rates without sacrificing “good
quality,” Ibarra said. Ethnic offers may be as much as 80
percent lower than basic rates, he said. The clients, who often
don’t speak Italian, also like customer care in their own
language, he said.  Falling Rates  Wind has a facility in Iasi, Romania, “through which we
take calls from clients of this ethnicity,” he said.  He forecast this business will keep growing because of
migration flows but “at a slower pace than in recent years.”  Vodafone Italia, a unit of the world’s biggest mobile-phone
operator, has activated more than 3 million “ethnic” SIM cards
in the country. Vodafone, which has similar programs in
countries such as Germany and Spain, offers these groups phones
at 9 euros and organizes events with inflatable bouncers for
kids and games for families to promote its services.  Growth in this market has intensified competition. Call
rates to China and India have fallen to as little as 2 euro
cents a minute after 3 Italia SpA, owned by  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. ’s 3 Group, slashed prices in July.  Competition is also coming increasingly from so-called
mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, which don’t own a
wireless network and sign deals with phone companies to use
their infrastructure.  Virtual Networks  Lycamobile , for example, is a prepaid SIM card product that
provides low-cost international calls from mobile phones.
Lycamobile is distributed through a European network of more
than 300,000 retail outlets. Introduced initially in The
Netherlands in 2006, it is Europe’s largest pre-pay MVNO with 6
million customers across the region, including Italy, and has
the slogan: “Call the World for Less.”  PosteMobile SpA , another MVNO, is also banking on
immigrants to boost growth. The Italian postal service’s mobile
operator had more than 1.5 million users at the end of August.  “We have a significant stake in the ever-rising ethnic
market,” PosteMobile Chief Executive Officer Roberto Giacchi
said in an interview. “In the last few months, this segment has
shown increased interest for value-added services such as money
transfers.”  Price War  CoopVoce , the mobile-phone business of Italy’s biggest
supermarket chain Coop, says it’s talking to ethnic communities
to tailor its offers,  “There is going to be a price war for these clients as
this is the only segment that’s growing in Italy,” Massimiliano
Parini, the unit’s head, said in an interview. “Immigration
flows will intensify in coming years, keeping this market a
healthy one.”  For Diop, the competition is good news. Using an
international pre-paid card at a phone booth was the only option
immigrants had before, he said.  “Fortunately, mobile-phone offers have replaced them,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net . 