-- Ellington Said to Attract Demand for All IPO Shares
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-10-07T21:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ellington-financial-ipo-said-to-draw-demand-for-75-of-shares.html
Ellington Financial LLC, the
mortgage-backed bond fund run by  Michael Vranos , secured enough
demand from buyers for all the shares being sold in its initial
public offering, according to a person familiar with the sale.  Ellington Financial’s underwriters began canvassing buyers
for the 4.5 million-share offering two days ago, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the information
isn’t public. Before bankers started marketing the sale, the
company already had commitments for at least half the shares
being offered, the person said. Ellington Financial is trying to
raise  $108 million  selling shares at $22 to $24 each today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Vranos, the former head of mortgage-securities trading at
Kidder Peabody & Co., is trying to raise money for a fund that
would invest in the types of mortgage bonds that spurred the
biggest housing bust since the Great Depression. The sale comes
10 months after the Old Greenwich, Connecticut-based company
canceled its first IPO attempt, which sought $208 million.  “It seems like it might be almost pre-sold,” said  Nick Einhorn , an analyst at Greenwich, Connecticut-based Renaissance
Capital LLC, which has studied IPOs since 1991. “If you believe
in the management team, it probably means they’d have the
ability to drive higher returns if they can execute their
strategy.”  December Deal  Deutsche Bank AG  of Frankfurt and Cantor Fitzgerald LP in
New York are managing the sale. Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group
AG , Ellington Financial’s lead underwriter in December, was
dropped from the deal, according to the company’s filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Patrick Clifford , a spokesman for Ellington Financial,
didn’t immediately respond to telephone calls seeking comment.
 Scott Helfman  at Deutsche Bank didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail or telephone calls for comment. Cantor Fitzgerald’s
Sandra Lee declined to comment.  As much as  95 percent  of the proceeds will be used to buy
securities tied to subprime, Alt-A, or prime home loans that
lack guarantees from government agencies such as Fannie Mae. The
purchases would add to the $246 million that the fund held in
such securities at the end of June.  Ellington Financial had a so-called book value, or its
assets minus liabilities, of $25.31 per share as of Aug. 31,
according to the filing. The midpoint offer price of $23 a share
would be a 9.1 percent discount to the fund’s net assets, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  The average  U.S. real estate investment trust  that buys
mortgages is valued at 0.99 times its shareholder equity, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  While the IPO may give buyers the opportunity to purchase a
stake in Ellington Financial at a discount, institutional owners
may assign a lower value to Vranos’ fund.  Bill Miller , whose $1.9 billion  Legg Mason Capital
Management Opportunity Trust  owns a 21 percent stake in
Ellington Financial, valued his 2.5 million-share holding at
$49.375 million, or $19.75 each, as of June 30, Baltimore-based
 Legg Mason Inc.’s  filing with the SEC showed.  That’s 20 percent less than Ellington Financial’s valuation
of $24.56 a share on the same day, according to its filing.  FBR Capital Markets Corp.  of Arlington, Virginia, which
owns a 12 percent stake as Ellington Financial’s second-largest
outside investor, valued its 1.44 million-share stake at $15
each at the end of June, its SEC filing showed.  Credit Crisis  Ellington Financial was established in August 2007, the
month that the credit crisis began, after raising $239.7 million
in a private sale to institutional buyers.  From its inception through the end of 2008, the fund
returned 0.52 percent, before a 43 percent gain last year.
Ellington Financial has returned 7.3 percent this year through
August, compared with the 7.4 percent gain, including dividends,
for the  BBREIT Mortgage Index , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Performance over the past two years will be critical to
gauging a mortgage manager’s ability to perform over the next
two years,” said  Michael Youngblood , a mortgage-bond analyst
for more than two decades before co-founding Bethesda, Maryland-
based hedge fund firm Five Bridges Advisors LLC in 2008.  Ellington Financial acts like a hedge fund by using
borrowed money to magnify bets and increase returns, charging
fees based on performance. The fund had borrowed $1.45 for every
dollar of capital at the end of June, the filing showed.  Hedge funds are largely unregulated investment vehicles
whose managers can trade any asset, aim to make money regardless
of whether markets rise or fall and participate substantially in
profits from money invested.  Harvard Degree  Vranos, 49, came to Wall Street more than two decades ago
after winning the 1981 teenage Mr. Connecticut title as a
bodybuilder and weightlifter and graduating with a magna cum
laude degree in mathematics from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
 Harvard University  in 1983.  He made Kidder one of the biggest underwriters of mortgage
bonds in the early 1990s after being put in charge of the
mortgage desk. The unit earned hundreds of millions of dollars
under Vranos, in some years bringing in as much as half of the
firm’s profit.  Vranos, who earned the nickname “Captain Iron” at Harvard
for the long hours he spent in the gym, once stripped to the
waist and performed muscle poses to catcalls from the trading
floor at Kidder, according to a Wall Street Journal story from
Dec. 29, 1994.  Connecticut Hometown  He left Kidder in 1994 to start Ellington Management Group
LLC, named after the Connecticut town where he grew up, helped
by $100 million from Ziff Brothers Investments.  “He’s respected and he’s thought to be an expert in the
area and would bring something to the table that perhaps others
don’t know,” said  Barry James , who oversees $2 billion as
president of James Investment Research Inc. in Xenia, Ohio.
“Wall Street always likes to follow folks who have success and
who are well respected, so I would think that from that
perspective, that’s a plus in his category.”  Ellington Financial’s offering comes after the market for
U.S. initial sales started to rebound last month, with nine of
10 IPOs posting gains, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At least 47 companies have postponed or withdrawn initial
offerings in the U.S. this year amid speculation that the
recovery from the longest recession since the Great Depression
is deteriorating.  Linc Logistics Co. , the Warren, Michigan-based
logistics company, delayed its $147 million IPO yesterday,
according to Bloomberg data.  Daqo New Energy Corp.  raised $76 million selling 8 million
American depositary receipts at $9.50 each, according to a
statement today. The Chongqing, China-based maker of polysilicon
materials for solar panels had offered the shares for $10.50 to
$12.50 each, an SEC filing showed. Daqo gained  7.9 percent  to
$10.25 in New York Stock Exchange trading today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 