-- Elpida May Buy Stakes in Powerchip, ProMOS, CEO Says
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   M i k a k o   N a k a j i m a
-- 2010-10-07T10:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/elpida-may-buy-stakes-in-taiwan-s-powerchip-promos-to-challenge-samsung.html
Elpida Memory Inc.  is considering
buying shares of Taiwanese chipmakers to counter competition
from  Samsung Electronics Co. , a move that may trigger the
industry’s biggest reorganization in more than a decade.  Powerchip Technology Corp. , ProMOS Technologies Inc. and
Winbond Electronics Corp. are among possible targets, Elpida
President  Yukio Sakamoto  said in interviews this week. The
Tokyo-based company is looking to acquire stakes of 20 percent
to 30 percent and any deals may lead to takeovers, though no
negotiations are under way, he said.  “It’s almost impossible for the Taiwanese to survive by
themselves,” Sakamoto said. “Without doing something, it will
be tough for us to survive, too. We don’t have the scale.”  Powerchip led chip stocks higher in Taipei on speculation
Elpida will combine its technology with Taiwanese manufacturing,
in the industry’s biggest shakeup since Japanese companies began
exiting the market in the late 1990s. Chipmakers face mounting
pressure to unite to keep up with the estimated $10 billion
Samsung invests annually to widen its lead in chip output.  “He’s casting a very wide net, but he may only catch a
small fish -- or maybe no fish at all,” said  Yuuki Sakurai ,
chief executive officer of Tokyo-based Fukoku Capital Management
Inc. “Sakamoto-san is very outspoken but what he says and what
the company achieves aren’t always the same.”  Other Options  For Elpida, the world’s third-largest maker of computer
memory chips, other options include cross-shareholdings and
forming a holding company, Sakamoto said. The 63-year-old
executive said he’s also open to tie-ups with  Nanya Technology
Corp.  and subsidiary  Inotera Memories Inc. , two other Taiwanese
makers of the dynamic random access memory chips that help
computers run multiple programs simultaneously.  Powerchip, Taiwan’s largest chipmaker, rose 2.2 percent,
while the island’s benchmark Taiex index was little changed.
Nanya, Inotera and Winbond also advanced in Taipei, while Elpida
fell 3.9 percent to 892 yen in Tokyo, the lowest since July 2009.  ProMOS would consider any proposal from Elpida, said  Ben Tseng , a spokesman. Winbond Chief Financial Officer  James Wen 
said his company would be open to a deal.  Pai Pei-lin , a Nanya
spokesman, said a tie-up would be difficult because of Nanya’s
partnership with Boise, Idaho-based Micron Technology Inc.  Powerchip hasn’t discussed any such deals with Elpida, said
 Eric Tang , a spokesman.  Taiwan Listing  Elpida is planning to list its shares on the Taiwan Stock
Exchange in early 2011 as the “next step” in the larger
strategy, Sakamoto said. The listing would help the company
raise money in Taiwan when the time comes to do deals, he said.  The vision sketched out by Sakamoto may lead to the first
industrywide consolidation since 1999, when  NEC Corp.  and
 Hitachi Ltd.  merged their chip units to form Elpida.  Fujitsu Ltd. 
also abandoned the business that year and  Toshiba Corp. 
announced its withdrawal in 2001.  It’s not the first time Sakamoto has considered mergers
with Taiwanese chipmakers. Elpida said in 2008 it was in talks
with Powerchip and ProMOS. Those discussions ended last year
after the Taiwanese government proposed an alternative revival
 plan  that ultimately collapsed.  “What’s different this time is that the motivation to do a
deal is much bigger,” said  Masahiro Mitsui , a Tokyo-based
analyst at Federated Advisory Services Co. “The cost of the
next generation technology is going to be too expensive to
shoulder alone.”  ‘Maxed Out’  Elpida began outsourcing production to Hsinchu-based
 Powerchip  in 2003. The two companies formed  Rexchip  in 2007 to
jointly produce computer memory. Elpida last year also signed
outsourcing contracts with  ProMOS  and Winbond.  The Rexchip factory has been retooled and will start
producing some chips for smartphones as early as January,
Sakamoto said. Elpida’s plant in Hiroshima will be “maxed out”
and the upgrade at the Taiwan plant reflects a change in policy
about keeping high-end intellectual property in Japan, he said.  Taiwan’s top four  DRAM makers  saw their combined market
share slip to about 10 percent in 2009 from 17 percent in 2006,
according to research firm iSuppli Corp. All of the island’s
DRAM makers have posted three years of losses, forcing them to
scale back investments, while Samsung pushed ahead, said  George Chang , a Taipei-based analyst at Yuanta Securities Co.  “The previous down cycle really killed the Taiwanese,”
Chang said. “They literally lost all the capability for future
investment. That’s why if you look at the current technology,
they’re so behind.”  ‘Kill Everybody’  Elpida increased its market share to about 17 percent last
year, helped by the Rexchip venture, according to iSuppli. Still,
that’s only half the size of Samsung. The Suwon, South Korea-
based company plans to invest 11 trillion won ($9.8 billion)
this year to expand chip production, seven times Elpida’s budget.  “Samsung is trying to kill everybody,” said  David Rubenstein , a Tokyo-based analyst at MF Global Ltd.  The DRAM industry is littered with companies driven out of
the business by low-cost competitors and violent cycles of boom-
and-bust, said Rubenstein. The last recession pushed German
memory-chip maker  Qimonda AG  into bankruptcy.  Elpida is trying to avoid the same fate. Sakamoto’s company
last year got a 30 billion yen ($362 million) bailout from the
state-run  Development Bank of Japan  following a record loss in
the 12 months ended March 2009.  Abandoning Japan  Sakamoto said expanding in Japan isn’t an option, partly
because of the stronger yen. Manufacturers including Elpida have
contended with a 40 percent gain in the yen versus the dollar in
the last three years. During the period, Samsung benefited from
a 19 percent drop in the value of the Korean won.  “Samsung has this enormous cost advantage,” said MF
Global’s Rubenstein “Everything is cheaper in Korea and getting
cheaper as we speak because of the currency.”  Japanese companies including  Murata Manufacturing Co.  have
announced plans to push production offshore this year after the
yen surged to a 15-year high against the dollar. Murata, Japan’s
biggest maker of ceramic capacitors used in chips, said last
month it plans to cut 3,000 domestic jobs and move machinery to
factories in China and Thailand.  “Continuing to make big investments in this country would
be suicide,” Sakamoto said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
 Mikako Nakajima  in Tokyo at 
 mikako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  