-- Emerging Stocks Rise for Sixth Day on Japan, Growth Prospects
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-10-06T21:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/emerging-market-stocks-rise-a-sixth-day-on-japan-rate-cut-growth-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
sixth day, heading for the longest winning streak in more than
two months, amid speculation governments will step up efforts to
stoke growth after Japan’s interest-rate cut.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 0.9 percent to
1,106.75 at 5 p.m. New York time, and touched 1,111.77, the
highest intraday level since June 26, 2008. Benchmark stock
measures in South Korea, Taiwan and the Czech Republic gained at
least 1 percent. Brazil’s  Bovespa  fell for the first time in
eight days.  Emerging-market currencies rose against the dollar on
speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will follow the Bank
of Japan’s lead in easing monetary policy, a move which traders
project will boost the flow of funds into emerging markets. The
Bank of Japan unexpectedly cut interest rates to a range of zero
percent to 0.1 percent yesterday and said it will buy as much as
$60 billion of assets to keep the economy from faltering.
Brazil’s real fell 0.9 percent.  “Everybody is coming back to the markets now, you have to
be more positive about the growth prospects,” said  Lye Thim Loong , who helps manage about $500 million at Avenue Invest Bhd.
in Kuala Lumpur. “Equities will be the ultimate beneficiary
from low interest rates.”  Currencies Rise  Speculation that the Fed will take more measures to support
the economy was reinforced on Oct. 4 when Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that its $1.75 trillion in purchases of mortgage
debt and Treasuries that ended in March 2010 aided the U.S. and
that further buying would likely help more. The world’s largest
economy will probably be “fairly bad” or “very bad” over the
next six to nine months, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led
by  Jan Hatzius , the firm’s New York-based chief U.S. economist,
wrote in an e-mail to clients.  The South Korean won appreciated 1.1 percent against the
dollar to 1,118.13, its biggest gain in a month. The ruble
strengthened 1 percent to 29.7325 and the Taiwanese dollar rose
0.8 percent to 30.847, the strongest level in two years.  All ten  industry  groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
advanced, led by a 2 percent rally in technology stocks.  Samsung
Electronics Co.,  the world’s largest television manufacturer,
rose 2.6 percent, leading gains in the benchmark.  South Korea’s  Kospi  index advanced 1.3 percent.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co.,  the world’s largest shipyard,
climbed 7.4 percent after the company received an order from SK
Shipping Co. to build four crude carriers. The stock was also
raised to “buy” from “neutral” at UBS AG, with a share-price
estimate of 420,000 won.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, dropped after Barclays Plc cut its rating to
“equalweight,” citing the “dilutive effects” of its $70
billion share offering.  Taiwan Rally  The Czech Republic’s PX Index advanced 1.2 percent, led by
 New World Resources NV . The largest Czech producer of coking
coal rose 3.6 percent after offering to buy  Lubelski Wegiel
Bogdanka SA , Poland’s only publicly traded coal mine, yesterday
in a 3.43 billion zloty ($1.21 billion) deal that would boost
its coal reserves.  Bogdanka jumped 20 percent today.  Turkey’s  ISE 100 stock index  rose 0.9 percent. Taiwan’s
Taiex index gained 1 percent.  India’s benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or
Sensex, advanced 0.7 percent. The  Jakarta Composite Index 
rallied for a ninth day, the longest streak since November 2006,
rising 0.3 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.73 percent, according to the  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. EMBI+ index .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  