-- Merkel May Lose Her `Anchor' Schaeuble as Six German State Elections Near
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2010-10-06T12:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/merkel-may-lose-her-anchor-schaeuble-as-six-german-state-elections-near.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  faces the
possible loss of  Wolfgang Schaeuble , her finance minister and
most senior Cabinet member, as she struggles in opinion polls
six months before state elections involving 25 percent of the
German population.  Schaeuble, 68, who will be in the hospital for four weeks 
with an ailment related to his wheelchair use, is being replaced 
at the International Monetary Fund’s fall meetings in Washington
beginning tomorrow and will miss a gathering in South Korea
later this month of Group of 20 finance ministers. He was unable
to travel to the IMF’s spring meeting and had to pull out of at
least two rounds of European Union talks this year.  “Merkel wants to keep Schaeuble because he’s an anchor of
stability in her coalition, which is in rough water right now,”
 Ulrich Deupmann , author of a Schaeuble biography and director of
Berlin-based political-advisory company Ideas.ag, said by phone.
“But this is really the last time Schaeuble can afford a
physical breakdown like this.”  Merkel’s government is stumbling toward regional elections
next year in six of Germany’s 16 states that political analysts
say risk inflicting damage on her national standing. Government
plans to extend the use of nuclear power and a police crackdown
on protests against a rail project in Stuttgart have become
lightning rods for nationwide dissatisfaction with Merkel’s
Christian Democrats, which trail the opposition in polls.  Her difficulties would be compounded by the loss from her
Cabinet of Schaeuble, a two-time former interior minister who
served under Chancellor  Helmut Kohl  and steered negotiations
leading to German reunification 20 years ago this month.  ‘Pure Speculation’  Schaeuble offered to resign his post on health grounds
before he was admitted to the hospital n Sept. 28, news magazine
 Stern  reported today, citing unnamed sources close to the
minister. Merkel declined to accept and persuaded Schaeuble to
stay on as his health improves, Stern said. Schaeuble remains
ready to relinquish his post if he is not fully recovered within
the four-week period of rest, the magazine said.  Michael Offer , chief Finance Ministry spokesman, said the
report was “pure speculation” and that Schaeuble’s recovery is
going according to plan. Offer told reporters that he spoke to
Schaeuble today and the minister told him “he neither offered
his resignation, nor did he set a deadline.”  Schaeuble ‘Reachable’  Schaeuble continues to work from his hospital bed, Offer
said. “You can’t think of it as an office -- it’s definitely a
hospital room,” he said. “But the minister has a cell phone
and a laptop, so he’s reachable to talk and in writing.”  Schaeuble has been partially paralyzed and in a wheelchair
since being shot by a deranged man in 1990. He underwent a
routine implant procedure in January that became aggravated
after the wound didn’t heal, requiring additional surgery. He is
now having treatment for  pressure sores .  “Merkel has only a limited reservoir of people she trusts
who can do the job of finance minister,” Deupmann said. “The
only thing that might change Merkel’s mind on keeping Schaeuble
would be if pressure comes from her Christian Democratic members
in parliament. I don’t see that right now, but if he’s forced to
go to hospital for another lengthy period that would be it.”  Interior Minister  Thomas de Maiziere , who stood in for
Schaeuble at an EU meeting in May, was named by Bild newspaper
as the only candidate to become finance minister if Schaeuble is
unable to continue. Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  will stand
in for Schaeuble at the G-20, the government said today.  Latest Polls  Merkel’s coalition with the Free Democratic Party rose one
percentage point to 36 percent in a weekly poll for Stern today.
That’s 12 points less than they won in last year’s election and
compares with 47 percent for the opposition Social Democratic
Party and Greens, which governed together from 1998 to 2005
under SPD Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder .  While the Social Democrats dropped a point to 23 percent,
the Greens rose by the same margin to 24 percent, overtaking
their political allies for the first time, Forsa said. If the
same result were replicated at an election, Greens co-leader
 Juergen Trittin  could be German chancellor.  Forsa polled 2,501 voters from Sept. 27 to Oct. 1. The
results have a margin of error of as many as 2.5 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Crawford  in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  