-- Ethiopian Opposition Leader Birtukan Is Released From Two Years in Prison
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2010-10-06T11:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ethiopian-opposition-leader-birtukan-is-released-from-two-years-in-prison.html
Ethiopian opposition leader  Birtukan Mideksa  was freed from prison today after the government granted
her request to be pardoned from a life sentence she began
serving almost two years ago.  “I’m very pleased to be back with my family,” Birtukan, 36,
said in an interview at her house in Addis Ababa, the capital.
“I’ve been relieved from a difficult situation. The first five
months in solitary confinement were very difficult.”  Birtukan was one of the leaders of the now dissolved
Coalition for Unity and Democracy, an alliance of opposition
parties that claimed victory in Ethiopia’s disputed 2005
elections. She and dozens of other opposition politicians,
journalists and activists were jailed in the aftermath of that
vote, during which government security forces killed at least
193 protesters.  Birtukan was jailed for life on Dec. 29, 2008, after a
dispute with the government over a pardon agreement that freed
her from prison in 2007.  Amnesty International , the London-based
human-rights group, described her as a prisoner of conscience,
according to its website.  Ethiopia is Africa’s biggest coffee producer and the
continent’s second-most populous nation, after Nigeria. The Horn
of Africa nation’s economy has grown more than 9 percent
annually since 2004 and is forecast to expand 9.7 percent this
year, according to the African Development Bank’s website.  Pardon Request  The Justice Ministry said Birtukan requested an official
pardon in a letter to Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi  on Sept. 15.  The letter included an apology for previous comments she
had made, the ministry said in a statement in Amharic handed to
reporters today. After verifying she was the author of the
letter, her request for a pardon was granted, it said.  Birtukan confirmed in the interview that she had “asked for
a pardon.” She didn’t elaborate.  Meles’s ruling Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic
Front won 545 of the 547 seats in parliamentary elections in
May. A European Union observer mission declared that the vote
failed to meet certain “international commitments.” The U.S.
National Security Council said it was “concerned” about the
observers’ findings.  “In the light of the 2010 election and the ending of
parliamentary opposition, her release is not going to make much
of a difference,” said Sally Healy, a Horn of Africa specialist
at  Chatham House , a London-based research institute.  Future Plans  Birtukan, who is currently the leader of the opposition
Unity for Democracy and Justice party, wouldn’t comment on what
her plans are following her release.  “This is time for my family,” she said while surrounded by
family members, colleagues and well-wishers at her home. The
Justice Ministry said Birtukan is “not to engage in illegal
activity” in future. It didn’t provide any further information
about the conditions of her release.  Yesterday, lawmakers in the European Parliament nominated
Birtukan as one of the candidates for the 2010  Sakharov Prize ,
which is given to individuals who combat intolerance, fanaticism
and oppression. Previous recipients of the award, which is named
after the Soviet scientist and dissident Andrei Sakharov,
include former South African President  Nelson Mandela , former
United Nations Secretary-General  Kofi Annan  and detained Myanmar
opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi .  “We at the European parliament are delighted to hear about
Birtukan’s release,”  Ana Maria Gomes , an EU lawmaker who led a
mission that observed the 2005 vote in Ethiopia, said in an e-
mailed statement today. “At the European Parliament, we will
continue to support all those who fight for democracy and the
rule of law in Ethiopia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 