-- Ethiopia Says It Will Free Opposition Leader Birtukan From Prison Today
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2010-10-06T08:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ethiopia-says-it-will-free-opposition-leader-birtukan-from-prison-today.html
Ethiopian  opposition leader  Birtukan Mideksa  will be released from prison after almost two years of
incarceration, government spokesman Motuma Temsgen said.  “I don’t know the terms or conditions, but she will be
released today,” Motuma said in a phone interview from Addis
Ababa, the capital. A statement will be released by the Justice
Ministry at 1 p.m. in the city, said  Shimeles Kemal , a spokesman
for the Communications Ministry.  Birtukan, 36, was one of the leaders of the now dissolved
Coalition for Unity and Democracy, an alliance of opposition
parties that claimed victory in Ethiopia’s disputed 2005
elections. She and dozens of other opposition politicians,
journalists and activists were jailed in the aftermath of that
vote, during which government security forces killed at least
193 protesters.  Birtukan was jailed for life on Dec. 29, 2008, after a
dispute with the government over a pardon agreement that freed
her from prison in 2007.  Amnesty International , the London-based
human-rights group, considers her a prisoner of conscience,
according to its website.  The Unity for Democracy and Justice party, which Birtukan
now leads, is “waiting for concrete results” before making any
comment, former Ethiopian President Negasso Gidada, who joined
the UDJ last year, said in a phone interview today.  “We want to see her before we say something,” he said.  Request for Pardon  Shimeles said Birtukan submitted a request for pardon at
the beginning of September.  “She wrote a statement asking to be pardoned on the grounds
that she regretted what she did in the past,” Shimeles said in a
phone interview today. He declined to provide any further
information until the Justice Ministry statement is released.  Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi ’s ruling Ethiopian People’s
Revolutionary Democratic Front won 545 of the 547 seats in
parliamentary elections in May. A European Union observer
mission declared that the vote failed to meet certain
“international commitments.” The U.S. National Security
Council said it was “concerned” about the observers’ findings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 