-- EU, South Korea Sign Free-Trade Pact; Bloc Seeks Malaysia Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-10-06T08:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/eu-south-korea-sign-free-trade-agreement-bloc-seeks-pact-with-malaysia.html
The European Union and South Korea
signed a free-trade agreement due to take effect next July,
expanding their roughly 70 billion-euro ($97 billion) commercial
relationship.  The signature today in Brussels of the accord, which will
make 99 percent of EU-South Korea commerce duty-free within five
years, comes a day after the 27-nation bloc started talks with
Malaysia on a free-trade deal. The EU-Korea accord is the
second-biggest such pact ever, eclipsed only by the $1 trillion
North American Free Trade Agreement among the U.S., Canada and
Mexico that began in 1994.  Companies that may benefit include pharmaceutical producers
such as London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc , chemical makers
including  BASF SE , based in Ludwigshafen, Germany, and consumer-
electronics manufacturers like Amsterdam-based  Royal Philips
Electronics NV , as well as farm exporters. Shipping and the
financial- and legal-services industries also stand to gain.  European carmakers opposed the agreement, saying it will
give an unfair edge to companies such as  Hyundai Motor Co.  and
 Kia Motors Corp.  because of a disparity in auto trade. The EU
imported about 450,000 Korean cars into its market of 15 million
in 2008 while exporting 33,000 autos to Korea, where 1 million
new cars are sold annually.  The accord will eliminate Korean import duties worth 1.6
billion euros annually and European levies of 1.1 billion euros,
according to the EU. The pact could increase Korea’s  gross
domestic product  by as much as 5.6 percentage points over 10
years and create as many as 253,000 jobs in Asia’s fourth-
largest economy, according to a joint report by the country’s
state research institutes.  A U.S.-Korea free-trade agreement from 2007 is on hold
while the administration of President  Barack Obama  seeks to
tackle an alleged imbalance in car trade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net . 