-- European Union May Renew Chinese Pool-Disinfectant Taxes; U.S. Levies End
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-10-06T09:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/european-union-may-renew-chinese-pool-disinfectant-taxes-u-s-levies-end.html
The European Union threatened to
renew tariffs on imports of a swimming-pool disinfectant from
China for another five years while scrapping similar levies
against the U.S.  The EU began a review of whether to reimpose the duties as
high as 42.6 percent on trichloroisocyanuric acid from China.
The 27-nation bloc allowed levies up to 25 percent on U.S.
producers including Biolab Inc. and Clearon Inc. to expire.  The EU imposed the import taxes in October 2005 to punish
Chinese and U.S. exporters of trichloroisocyanuric acid for
selling it in Europe below cost, a practice known as dumping.
The goal was to curb import competition for EU producers
including Spain’s Aragonesas Delsa and Neokem Group.  The review will determine whether the expiry of the duties
against China “would be likely, or unlikely, to lead to a
continuation of dumping and recurrence injury,” the European
Commission, the EU’s trade authority in Brussels, said today in
the  Official Journal . The measures were due to lapse this week
along with the levies against the U.S. and will now stay in
place during the probe, which can last as long as 15 months.  The investigation results from a July 6 request by the
 European Chemical Industry Council , which claims that letting
the trade protection against China lapse would probably lead to
renewed dumping by Chinese trichloroisocyanuric-acid exporters
and injury to the EU producers, according to the commission.  China’s share of the EU market for trichloroisocyanuric
acid grew nearly fivefold to 50 percent in the period between
April 2003 and March 2004 compared with 2000, the EU said when
 introducing  the anti-dumping duties. The U.S. share fell by half
to 11 percent between July 2003 and June 2004 compared with
2000, according to the bloc, which at the time highlighted the
near doubling of both countries’ combined share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  