-- EU `Unlikely' to Decide on Carbon Target Before Cancun, Climate Envoy Says
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2010-10-06T16:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/european-union-unlikely-to-decide-on-carbon-target-by-cancun-adviser-says.html
The European Union is “unlikely” to
decide on raising its target for cutting carbon emissions before
United Nations climate talks resume next month in Cancun,
Mexico, said Jurgen Lefevere, an EU climate adviser.  The 27-nation bloc is on schedule to meet its 2020 goal of
reducing greenhouse gases by 20 percent from 1990 levels and has
said it may toughen the target if other countries follow suit.
It stopped short of moving to a more ambitious goal at the
climate summit in Copenhagen last December, citing a lack of
comparable effort by the U.S. and China.  While a  commission study  in May showed a 30 percent target
is feasible, member-states remain at odds on whether the bloc
should increase its goal. They have asked the European
Commission, the EU regulator, to prepare an additional analysis
on the costs to move to a stricter target at national levels.  “We are having very important discussions on various
levels on how we would do this, what are the technicalities on
making the move,” Lefevere, an adviser at the EC climate
directorate, said in a briefing in Tianjin, China, where climate
talks are being held this week.  French, German and U.K. officials said in July that the EU
should move to a 30 percent target or risk falling behind the
U.S. and China in developing low-carbon technology. Danish Prime
Minister  Lars Loekke Rasmussen  said last week he would propose
at the next summit of the EU heads of state that the bloc should
unilaterally deepen its goal.  ‘Counterproductive’ Move?  An EU move to a stricter target without comparable effort
by other nations would be “counterproductive,” Polish
Environment Minister  Andrzej Kraszewski  said this month.  The majority of member states are still “calculating”
their position on moving to a more ambitious climate goal, EU
Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said in Brussels on Oct.
4. The bloc’s environment ministers will next discuss climate
targets at an Oct. 14 meeting in Luxembourg as envoys ready for
a new round of climate talks that start Nov. 29 in Cancun.  At the Copenhagen summit, negotiators failed to reach a
binding deal to cut greenhouse gases, settling instead for a
political accord calling for $100 billion a year by 2020 in
climate financing for poor nations. It also includes a vow to
stop global temperature increases at 2 degrees Celsius (3.6
degrees Fahrenheit) from pre-industrial times.  “What we’ve been trying to do is bring the Copenhagen
Accord pledges into the negotiating process, where we’ve not
been able to discuss them so far, so that we can look at options
to strengthen the collective level of ambition, to strengthen
individual level of ambition, and look at ways to reach the 2
degrees scenario,” Lefevere said.  “We’ve not been able to have that debate and frankly that
really surprises us,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net  