-- Europe Exports Spur Growth as Consumer Spending Rises Less Than Estimated
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-10-06T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/europe-exports-spur-growth-as-consumer-spending-rises-less-than-estimated.html
Europe’s economy expanded at the
fastest pace in four years in the second quarter as surging
exports countered a smaller-than-estimated increase in consumer
spending.  Household expenditure  in the 16-nation euro region rose 0.2
percent in the three months through June, lower than the 0.5
percent estimate published on Sept. 2, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Exports climbed 4.4
percent, revised from 4.3 percent, while  gross domestic product 
jumped 1 percent, in line with the previous estimate.  With the global recovery losing momentum and governments
cutting spending to tackle budget deficits, the economy may
struggle to gather strength as  unemployment  at the highest in
more than 12 years erodes consumer confidence. The European
Commission said last month that the region’s growth rate
probably weakened to 0.5 percent in the third quarter.  We see “a clear sequential moderation” since the end of
the first half, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst  Nick Kojucharov 
said in a research note. Latest indicators “point to euro-zone
GDP growth of 0.5 percent in the third quarter.”  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, led the second-quarter
expansion, with growth of 2.2 percent, while French GDP rose 0.7
percent. Europe’s so-called peripheral economies lagged the
region’s expansion. Spain’s economy grew 0.2 percent and
Ireland, which had the euro region’s largest budget gap last
year, shrank 1.2 percent. Greek GDP dropped 1.8 percent.  Investment  rose 1.5 percent instead of 1.8 percent
estimated earlier, today’s report showed.  Government spending 
rose 0.5 percent, in line with the previous estimate, and
imports increased 4 percent instead of 4.4 percent.  Changes in inventories added 0.3 percentage points to
second-quarter growth instead of a previously reported 0.2
percentage points, the statistics office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloombert.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  