-- Teva Can Challenge Eisai Aricept Patents, Court Says
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2010-10-06T19:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/teva-can-challenge-eisai-patents-on-aricept-appeals-court-says.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. ,
the biggest generic-drug maker, can challenge patents on Eisai
Co.’s Alzheimer’s treatment Aricept, a U.S. appeals court ruled.  The decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit in Washington today overturns a trial judge’s decision
to throw out Teva’s challenge and gives the company a shot at
beating  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.  to the market with a generic
version of the drug.  Ranbaxy, majority owned by Japanese drugmaker Daiichi
Sankyo Co., has the right to be the first to sell copies of the
drug in the U.S., and it may enter the market as early as
November, when a patent on Aricept’s active ingredient expires.
Petah Tikva, Israel-based Teva was told last month it can’t
begin sales until Ranbaxy’s 180-day exclusivity period ends.  The legal challenge to four other Aricept patents is an
 effort  to have the six-month period begin before Ranbaxy enters
the market. Under federal law, the exclusivity period starts
when the generic-drug maker begins sales or when a court rules
against patents, whichever comes first.  The dispute would be moot if Ranbaxy gets approval in
November. The Gurgaon, India-based company has been dealing with
manufacturing processes at two of its plants and the U.S. Food &
Drug Administration has been limiting imports and approvals of
some drugs made there.  ‘Appropriate’ Action  A trial judge threw out Teva’s challenge to the four
patents, saying there was no legal controversy because Eisai
never planned to use those patents to block generic competition.  The Federal Circuit said Teva’s actions were appropriate
and that a generic-drug maker has a legal “interest in when the
first-filer’s exclusivity period begins.”  Courts have ruled in most cases that it is the brand-drug
company that decides which patents to litigate under the complex
federal drug law. The ruling today may enable other generic-drug
makers to file challenges to patents on brand medicines.  Denise Bradley , a spokeswoman for Teva, said the company
had no comment. Officials with Ranbaxy didn’t immediately return
messages seeking comment.  The case is Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. v. Eisai Co.,
2009-1593, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 