-- Ex-Jefferies Money Manager Guilty of Insider Trading
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ex-jefferies-money-manager-contorinis-is-convicted-of-of-insider-trading.html
Former  Jefferies Paragon Fund  money
manager  Joseph Contorinis  was found guilty by a federal court
jury in an insider-trading scheme that prosecutors say netted
more than $7 million in illegal profits.  Jurors in Manhattan yesterday convicted Contorinis, 46, of
seven counts of securities fraud and one count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud. Prosecutors claimed Contorinis
illegally traded on inside merger tips supplied by  Nicos Stephanou , an investment banker who was the government’s chief
witness in the trial.  The “guilty verdict sends yet another strong message of
deterrence to anyone who is thinking about gaming the system
like Joseph Contorinis did,”  Preet Bharara , U.S. Attorney for
Manhattan, said in a statement.  Contorinis faces as long as 20 years in prison on the
securities fraud counts and five years on the conspiracy count
when he’s sentenced Feb. 4. The jury, which delivered the
verdict on its second day of deliberations, also acquitted
Contorinis on two securities fraud counts.  Mark Pomerantz , a lawyer for Contorinis, didn’t immediately
return a phone message yesterday.  Stephanou, who was an associate director of mergers and
acquisitions at Zurich-based  UBS AG , passed along tips to
Contorinis from 2004 to 2006, according to prosecutors.  Stephanou pleaded guilty in the case and testified against
Contorinis in exchange for leniency. He admitted telling
Contorinis and other friends about pending deals, including the
2006 acquisition of Albertsons Inc., at the time the second-
biggest U.S. grocer.  The case is U.S. v. Contorinis, 09-CR-1083, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 