-- Ex-Marble Bar Manager Klintberg's Hedge Fund Kima Boosts Assets Fivefold
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-10-06T21:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ex-marble-bar-manager-s-hedge-fund-kima-capital-increases-assets-fivefold.html
Kima Capital Management Pty , set up
last year by former Marble Bar Asset Management LLP manager
 Justin Klintberg , has increased its hedge fund assets fivefold
by attracting money from smaller allocators in Asia.  Kima’s Pan Asian Long/Short Equity Fund now manages just
under $40 million, from A$8 million ($7.7 million) at its July
2009 inception, Chief Executive Officer Michael Gallagher said
in a telephone interview from Melbourne. It returned 17 percent
by August, against the  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index ’s 13 percent gain.  Kima has lured money from smaller funds of hedge funds and
family offices based in Asia and Australia even as local pension
funds have been harder to attract, Gallagher said, declining to
identify the investors. Small managers in Asia have been
straining to raise money since the global credit crisis as the
largest pensions and endowments, including Australia’s pension
funds, have steered their money toward bigger hedge funds.  “At present, we may be seen to be a bit too boutique for
the Australian superannuation industry,” Gallagher said. “Nor
do we have the long track record.”  New commitments and increased allocations from existing
investors may bring Kima’s assets under management to $51
million by early November, he added.  Smaller funds of funds, with $100 million to $500 million
of assets, that played a key role in the expansion of the Asian
industry before the credit crisis have either closed down or
been consolidated, said  Marlin Naidoo , head of the hedge fund
capital group for Asia-Pacific at Deutsche Bank AG last month.  Increased Scrutiny  Seventy-five new hedge fund managers set up in Asia since
2009 now on average oversee $29 million, according to Singapore-
based Eurekahedge Pte. Most of the $23 billion of net inflows
into the global hedge fund industry in the first half went to
managers that already had more than $5 billion of assets, said
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Increased investor scrutiny of hedge fund managers since
the Bernard Madoff Ponzi scheme has hampered Australia-based
managers’ efforts to boost capital. Commodity Strategies Ltd.
founder  Rob Holroyd  told Bloomberg in November he was
considering a move to New York or Switzerland from Sydney to be
closer to the sources of cash.  Kima makes about 70 percent of investments in companies
affected by events, such as reorganizations, mergers and
acquisitions, and special dividend payments, Klintberg said in
July 2009. Another 20 percent of its investments seek to profit
from arbitraging, or exploiting the pricing gaps between related
securities such as stocks listed on two or more exchanges, he
said then.  Stable Returns  Unlike typical “event-driven” hedge funds that hold
securities for three to six months until the events affecting
their value are completed, the Kima fund trades more often and
holds its investments for one to four weeks, Gallagher said.
Kima has marketed itself as seeking to generate stable returns,
Gallagher said.  It benefited from an abundance of corporate activities such
as rights issues by Australian companies to repair balance
sheets damaged by the crisis and mergers and acquisitions,
Gallagher said.  “Going forward, the pipeline for new corporate deals in
Asia is looking as good as 2007,” Gallagher said, adding
companies are taking advantage of the market recovery to build
up their balance sheets and finance acquisitions.  The  Eurekahedge Asian Long/Short Equities Hedge Fund Index 
returned 9 percent from when the Kima’s fund started trading to
August.  Marble Bar  Kima’s Chief Investment Officer Klintberg managed arbitrage
and special situations investments for Marble Bar. The
management of the London-based hedge fund manager bought the
company they set up in 2002 back from Zurich-based EFG
International AG in May.  Marble Bar recently closed down its Asia Fund. The manager,
whose main hedge fund focuses on European stocks, has been
dropping strategies that had been added since EFG’s purchase in
December 2007, people with knowledge of the matter told
Bloomberg in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  