-- Mexico's Yen Bond Sale Will Be Last 2010 Overseas Offer, Rodriguez Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-10-06T18:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/mexico-s-yen-bond-to-conclude-2010-overseas-debt-offerings-rodriguez-says.html
Mexico’s sale of yen-denominated
bonds will be the country’s last overseas debt offering this
year, said  Gerardo Rodriguez , head of the finance ministry’s
public debt unit.  The government plans to raise about 150 billion yen ($1.8
billion) of 10-year Samurai bonds as early as Oct. 20, a person
familiar with the transaction said. The bonds may be priced to
yield 50 basis points to 65 basis points more than the yen swap
rate, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the information is private.  The sale will happen before the end of the month, Rodriguez
said, declining to provide details. Mexico has sold more than
$4.2 billion in euro and dollar debt this year to take advantage
of record low yields. Yesterday, the government sold $1 billion
of 100-year bonds, the first debt with that length maturity by a
Latin American government.  “We had many opportunities this year,” Rodriguez said.
“With this sale, we would complete all our market operations.”  Mexico begun studying issuing 100-year bonds about year ago
and made a decision after Rabobank Nederland NV and Norfolk
Southern Corp. sold similar maturity debt in the last two
months, Rodriguez said.  The government wanted to take advantage of record low
yields to fund operations, he said. The yield on Mexico’s 5.125
percent dollar debt due in January 2020 fell to a record low of
3.607 last week.  “There are few times when all the different elements align
themselves to allow a transaction like this. This will lead
other issuers to 100-year bonds,” Rodriguez said. “It would be
very normal for people to start considering these bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  