-- Facebook Updates Groups Feature to Help Sort Friends
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-06T22:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/facebook-updates-groups-feature-to-help-sort-friends.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s largest
social-networking service, added new ways to monitor personal
data on the site and updated a feature that makes it easier to
interact with smaller clusters of friends.  The Groups feature helps users track different collections
of friends, so that members can share certain information with
select people, Palo Alto, California-based Facebook said today
at a company event.  “It’s a product,” Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg 
said at the event. “But it’s also a very fundamental building
block, I think, for social networking going forward.”  Facebook pledged in May to fine-tune privacy settings,
simplifying the way personal information is shared. The company,
which has more than 500 million members, had drawn criticism
from users and lawmakers, who complained that it hadn’t gone far
enough to keep private data under wraps.  “Although Groups will likely be seen by many as a seamless
-- even an inevitable -- update, in reality it represents a
revolution in approach for Facebook,” Erica Newland, a policy
analyst with the Center for Democracy & Technology, said on the
privacy organization’s website. “The company that over the past
year has repeatedly used questionable means to encourage users
to share more of their information with the general public has
finally returned to its roots.”  Information in Apps  Facebook also unveiled a feature today that lets people see
how their information is used in applications. Facebook will
provide a dashboard that shows everything users have submitted
to apps on the site.  In addition, users can download the data they’ve added to
Facebook as a compressed file. That includes messages, postings
on friends’ walls, photographs, status updates and profile
information.  The new Groups feature, which might center around fantasy
football leagues or extended families, poses a threat to
smaller, interest-specific social services offered by companies
like Ning Inc. and Yahoo! Inc., said Augie Ray, an analyst at
Forester Research Inc.  In August, Facebook introduced a feature called Places that
lets users share their locations, raising another round of
privacy questions. The company responded to the concerns by
requiring users to opt in to the service and by providing
options for how widely the information would be broadcast.  Facebook is relying on its surging popularity to fuel
advertising sales, which accounts for most of its revenue. The
company may double its sales to at least $1.4 billion in 2010
from $700 million to $800 million last year, two people familiar
with Facebook said in July.  The company is valued at $26.3 billion on  SharesPost Inc. ,
an exchange for closely held businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  