-- Father-Son Hotel Developers Convicted of Tax Crime by U.S. Jury in Florida
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   M o r t   L u c o f f
-- 2010-10-07T15:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/father-son-hotel-developers-convicted-of-tax-crime-by-u-s-jury-in-florida.html
A father and son charged with hiding
a $33 million hotel sale from U.S. tax authorities while living
a lavish lifestyle were convicted by a federal jury in Florida.  Mauricio Cohen Assor, 77, and Leon Cohen Levy, 46, were
found guilty yesterday of conspiring to defraud the Internal
Revenue Service and filing false tax returns. The men, who built
hotels under the “ Flatotel ” brand, testified they were
innocent. Both face as long as 11 years in prison.  “These verdicts send a strong message to Americans who
think they can hide their money or assets offshore in order to
dodge their income tax obligations,” said Daniel Auer, special
agent in charge of the IRS criminal investigation division.  Prosecutors said the Cohens used offshore companies,
friends and family posing as owners, and forged documents to
cheat the IRS. They said the Cohens should have declared income
from their use of mansions and luxury cars that the father and
son said were owned by corporations.  Michael Pasano , their
defense lawyer, said prosecutors gave an “Alice in Wonderland”
case built on flawed theories and lying witnesses.  “There were no limits to the greed, the deception and the
manipulations of the defendants,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
 Jeffrey Neiman  said Oct. 5 in summations in Fort Lauderdale.  The case was watched closely by tax lawyers across the U.S.
because it was the first trial since the Justice Department
began a crackdown in March 2009 on offshore tax evasion, said
 Martin Press , a lawyer in Fort Lauderdale.  U.S. District Judge  William Zloch  set sentencing for Dec.
17. Pasano said he will ask the judge for a new trial, and Zloch
said he must file his motion by Oct. 27.  ‘Keep Fighting’  “We’re disappointed,” Pasano said. “We’re going to keep
fighting. We’re pleased that there was one not guilty.”  Both men have been in custody since their arrest April 15.  Leon Cohen was convicted of falsely reporting $45,000 in
income for 2005 and $46,101 for 2007. Mauricio Cohen was
convicted of falsely reporting income of $10,399 for 2004 and
$41,821 for 2007. Jurors cleared Leon Cohen of a charge that he
falsely reported income of $45,000 for 2004.  Prosecutors said Mauricio Cohen failed to report $11.9
million in income, including his use of a Rolls Royce and
mansion and his earnings from a British Virgin Islands
corporation, Whitebury Shipping Time-Sharing Ltd. They say Leon
Cohen failed to report $4.4 million from his use of his mansion,
two Ferraris and two Porsches.  ‘They Weren’t Mine’  “Both of the defendants said, ‘I had use of these luxurious
assets but they weren’t mine,’” said  David M. Garvin , a Miami
tax lawyer who attended the trial. “The jury had a difficult
time accepting the plausibility of that.”  For jurors making $50,000 a year, the claims by the Cohens
that they made the same amount were not credible, Garvin said.  “Here are people driving Ferraris and Rolls-Royces,
jetting around the world, living in real estate on the water
worth millions and millions,” he said. “That inconsistency
defies common sense. There was no logical explanation for jurors
to say the taxes were correct even though the lifestyle was
lavish.”  Pasano said the Cohens were scapegoats and victims of
prosecution witnesses who lied to protect themselves or nursed
grudges. He said that prosecutors failed to prove the Cohens
intended to break the law and that the U.S. offered varying
theories on whether they owned mansions and luxury cars or
merely used them for business purposes.  Offshore Accounts  Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark Daly said in closing arguments
that the Cohens went to great lengths to conceal $33 million
they got in the 2000 sale of the New York Flatotel. He said the
men put the money in a Swiss account of  HSBC Holdings Plc ,
Europe’s largest bank by market value, and moved it to other
offshore accounts.  The men also hid their ownership of a company that invested
as much as $45 million, lived in Miami Beach mansions, and drove
cars like a Porsche Carrera GT bought for $500,000, Daly said.  Daly said the Cohens received a legal opinion in 2002
saying they must pay taxes on the use of assets such as cars or
houses for business purposes. He said the men refused to tell
accountants whether they owned companies at the heart of the
trial. They did tell bankers that they owned the companies, when
they needed loans, Daly said.  Pasano said at least seven prosecution witnesses, including
Mauricio Cohen’s brother-in-law, lied to jurors about the
Cohens. He said other people, not the Cohens, owned the
companies, houses and cars in question, and that they accurately
reported their income to the IRS. He said prosecutors failed to
present witnesses who said the Cohens intended to defraud tax
authorities.  ‘No One’  “What witness came here and said they owed taxes for
living in the house or driving the car?” Pasano said. “No
one.”  The sale of the Flatotel in New York was “all a big
smokescreen” to obscure the fact that “the government’s
evidence doesn’t prove a tax crime,” Pasano argued.  Prosecutors said the Cohens displayed the behavior of tax
cheats by using nominees and tax havens, failing to file
returns, forging documents, moving funds through multiple
accounts and not following advice of accountants and lawyers.  The Cohens are involved in litigation over the sale of the
Flatotel with CDR Creances SA, a company set up by the French
government to sell unprofitable businesses of Credit Lyonnais
SA. Neiman said they fear losing $250 million in that case.  The case is U.S. v. Assor, 10-cr-60159, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Mort Lucoff  in Fort Lauderdale at  morsybil@bellsouth.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 