-- FirstRand Bond Sales Beat Standard Bank as Sinking Yields Help Expansion
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-07T08:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/firstrand-s-bond-sales-exceed-standard-bank-s-as-lower-yields-aid-growth.html
FirstRand Ltd. , South Africa’s
second-largest financial services company, is leading bond sales
in Africa’s biggest economy by locking in record-low borrowing
costs with longer dated debt as it expands on the continent.  The Johannesburg-based company has raised 7.46 billion rand
($1.09 billion) in 18 bond sales this year, the most since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1999. The sales mean
FirstRand has surpassed larger rival  Standard Bank Group Ltd. ,
which last year led debt sales, as South Africa’s biggest
corporate issuer.  “They’re being quite opportunistic in securing longer-term
debt,” said  Patrice Rassou , an industry analyst who helps
oversee the equivalent of $41 billion at Cape Town-based Sanlam
Investment Management. “FirstRand’s stated objective is to
expand into Africa, which offers good opportunities because it’s
a market with low banking penetration.”  FirstRand, which owns South Africa’s third-largest retail
bank, aims to be Africa’s leading financial services firm, Chief
Executive Officer  Sizwe Nxasana  said after the announcement of
his appointment in June last year. The bank is taking advantage
of falling borrowing costs to extend the maturities on its debt.
The country’s central bank lowered the benchmark  repurchase rate 
eight times since December 2008, to 6 percent, the lowest since
the rate was first introduced in 1999.  “If you’re going to be boosting mortgage assets, which are
20-years in duration, you want to make sure you’ve got the long-
term funding to do so,” Rassou said.  Banking in Africa  FirstRand has banking units in six African countries
outside of its main market of South Africa while seeking
additional operating licenses in others including Tanzania.
Standard Bank, Africa’s biggest lender, is present in 16 non-
South African markets on the continent.  “There’s been a dramatic shift in FirstRand’s focus to the
rest of Africa and the continent’s trade channels in Asia,”
 Neville Chester , who helps oversee about $22 billion at Cape
Town-based Coronation Fund Managers Ltd., said in a telephone
interview. “We’re likely to see measured acquisition from them
on the continent going forward.”  Nxasana has said he plans an acquisition in Nigeria,
Africa’s most populous nation, as South Africa’s economic growth
slows. The company has expressed interest in buying a stake in
one of 10 Nigerian institutions that failed an audit by the
nation’s central bank and shared a 620 billion-naira ($4
billion) government capital injection.  Longer Maturities  South African banks have historically used the bond market
for between 3 percent and 5 percent of funding on average,
compared with between 15 percent and 20 percent for overseas
lenders, FirstRand’s Group Treasurer Andries du Toit said in a
telephone interview from the bank’s offices in Johannesburg. The
company aims to increase its funding from debt sales above the
domestic average, he added.  “We have a strategy to issue much more in the capital
markets to lengthen our funding liquidity risk profile,” said
du Toit. “In terms of our funding strategy, we like the bond
market.”  The 2 billion rand of FirstRand’s 8.5 percent bonds due in
December 2018 have surged 11 percent this year, reducing the
yield by as much as 185 basis points to 9.71 percent, the lowest
since January 2009.  The lender sold 250 million rand of debt due in April 2045,
the longest maturity to date, paying an 8 percent coupon and a
further 50 million rand of bonds maturing December 2033 at 3.45
percent interest, Bloomberg data show. The rates are lower than
the 13 percent rate on bonds that matured Aug. 31 this year and
were issued in March 2004.  Increasing Bond Sales  South African companies have increased bond sales by 10.6
percent to a five-year high of 57.75 billion rand so far this
year, as falling borrowing costs enable debt to be issued more
cheaply. FirstRand raised its share of the total to 12.9 percent
from 5.4 percent in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The three-month  Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate  dropped
to a record 6.015 percent on Sept. 29. The rate closed at 6.035
percent yesterday.  Among the country’s top four lenders, Old Mutual Plc’s
 Nedbank Group Ltd.  has issued 5.785 billion rand this year,
 Standard Bank  has sold 4.25 billion rand and Barclays Plc-owned
 Absa Group Ltd.  has raised 3 billion rand, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Standard Bank, Africa’s biggest lender, led corporate bond
sales in South Africa last year with 10.3 billion rand, or
almost 20 percent, of the total 52.23 billion. That compares
with 2.84 billion rand issued by FirstRand in 2009.  ‘Quickest to Increase’  “Coming out of the crisis, banks have been amongst the
quickest to increase their longer-term funding to reduce risk by
better matching the duration of their assets with their
liabilities,” said  Simon Howie , a Cape Town-based credit
portfolio manager at Investec Asset Management, which oversees
about $70 billion. “A huge proportion of their assets are
mortgages which are typically very long in duration while a lot
of their liabilities, mainly deposits, are very short term and
can in theory be rapidly withdrawn.”  FirstRand, whose RMB Morgan Stanley joint venture has led
equity underwriting in South Africa for the past three years, is
considering reviving a planned sale of international bonds to
fund expansions in Africa, according to Du Toit. The planned
sale of at least 500 million euros ($694 million) of
international bonds was postponed in April because of market
“volatility,” Du Toit said at the time.  “As soon as spreads improve and appetite increases, we’ll
go back into the international market, mainly in Asia and
Europe,” said du Toit. “We’ll issue either in dollars or
euros, depending on investor demand.”  FirstRand, owner of South Africa’s largest provider of auto
loans, is also considering selling bonds backed by mortgage and
auto-loan debt, du Toit said. “We’re working on a couple of
securitizations.”  The bank is rated BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, the third-lowest investment-grade ranking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  