-- Treasury Yield Curve Flattens Amid Job Losses, Prospects for Fed Purchases
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-06T20:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/five-year-treasury-yield-declines-to-record-low-as-data-shows-loss-in-jobs.html
Treasuries rose, narrowing the gap
between yields on 2- and 10-year notes to the least in five
weeks, as a report showing an unexpected decrease in U.S. jobs
fueled speculation the Federal Reserve will buy more debt.  Five-year yields reached their lowest ever after ADP
Employer Services data showed employers cut 39,000 positions,
spurring speculation a payrolls report Oct. 8 also may be weaker
than expected. Yields slid this week as investors bet the Fed
will follow the Bank of Japan in buying more bonds, a strategy
known as quantitative easing.  “It’s a continuation of the bullish trend seen as the
market continues to price in a growing anticipation of QE,”
said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital
Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “If one were on the fence
of expecting QE in November versus December, a weak employment
report could bring one’s expectations closer.”  Five-year yields fell 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 1.15 percent at 4:45 p.m. in New York, according to
BGCantor Market Data. The 1.25 percent security due in September
2015 rose 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 15/32.
The yield touched 1.1206 percent, the lowest level on record.  The two-year  note  yield slid 2 basis points to 0.38 percent
and touched an all-time low of 0.3750 percent. The yield, which
has set or matched record lows for four consecutive days, was
0.9043 percent a year ago. The  10-year security ’s yield dropped
8 basis points to 2.39 percent and reached 2.36 percent, the
lowest level since January 2009.  Thirty-year bond  yields touched
3.63 percent, the lowest level since Sept. 2.  Yield Curve  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year securities
over 2-year debt, called the yield curve, touched 1.98
percentage points, the least since Aug. 27. The flattening
reflected concern the U.S. economic recovery is stalling and
wagers that the Fed will begin a quantitative-easing program.  Japan’s decision yesterday to set up a 5 trillion-yen ($60
billion) fund to buy assets to spur growth fueled expectations
the Fed will follow.  Speculation the central bank will purchase additional
Treasuries to pump money into the economy has risen as New York
Fed President  William Dudley , the Boston Fed’s  Eric Rosengren 
and Chicago’s  Charles Evans  all advocated further action. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4 that restarting large-scale
asset purchases would probably spur growth, after saying last
week the bank has a duty to aid the economy as  unemployment 
holds near 10 percent.  ‘Quantitative-Easing Rocket’  “The combination of bad data and very pointed comments by
Fed officials leave one to believe that the Fed will be
launching a ‘quantitative-easing rocket’ in the near future and
traders don’t want to miss the ride,”  Kevin Giddis , president
of fixed-income capital markets at brokerage firm Morgan Keegan
Inc. in Memphis, Tennessee, wrote in a note to clients.  The  central bank  bought $1.7 trillion worth of Treasury and
mortgage debt in a program that ended in March. The purchases
helped push  mortgage rates  to historic lows.  The yield  difference  between 10-year notes and 30-year
bonds reached 1.32 percentage points, the widest since Bloomberg
began keeping the data in 1992, as investors speculated the Fed
would focus its purchases on shorter-term Treasury securities.
The gap later contracted to 1.27 percentage points.  “The reaching of new extremes in 10s and 30s is reflective
of the Fed’s bias toward the 5- to 10-year sector in their
purchases,” Lyngen of CRT said. “The long bond is the last
benchmark to find a relative bid.”  Stagnant Payrolls  Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast the ADP report
today would show a gain of 20,000 jobs. Employment data due Oct.
8 from the Labor Department are forecast in separate Bloomberg
surveys to show there was no change in overall payrolls last
month and that the unemployment rate rose to 9.7 percent, from
9.6 percent in August.  Fed officials said in a policy statement on Sept. 21 the
central bank is prepared “to provide additional accommodation if
needed to support economic recovery.” Policy makers next meet
Nov. 2-3.  “With a month before the meeting, the market should try to
evaluate what degree of QE will be the data-dependent factor
going forward,”  John Spinello , chief technical strategist in
New York at primary dealer Jefferies Group Inc., wrote in a
note.  The Fed said it purchased $2.069 billion of Treasuries
maturing from March 2013 to June 2013 today as part of a program
to reinvest principal payments on its mortgage holdings into
government debt to prevent money from being drained out of the
financial system. The central bank has  bought  $44.071 billion of
Treasuries since it began the program on Aug. 17.  Treasuries have returned investors 9 percent this year,
compared with a loss of 2 percent in the same period last year,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  