-- Foresight Group Aims for $64 Million Tax-Sheltered Fund in U.K. Solar
-- B y   A n g u s   M c C r o n e
-- 2010-10-06T13:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/foresight-group-aims-for-64-million-tax-sheltered-fund-in-u-k-solar.html
A U.K. asset management group is
planning to raise 40 million pounds ($64 million) from wealthy
individuals for a tax-sheltered venture capital trust that will
invest in small-scale British solar power projects.  The fund will look to take 100 percent equity control of
projects so that it could dictate the best time to sell the
assets,  Jamie Richards , partner at Kent-based Foresight Group,
said in a telephone interview. “We are looking to become an
aggregator of projects with enough critical mass to interest
pension funds and other institutional investors,” he said.  Using debt equivalent to about 80 percent of the total
project cost, Foresight could “leverage up a 40-million-pound
fund to own 200 million pounds of assets,” Richards said.  “People say the sun doesn’t shine in the U.K. but it
doesn’t shine much in Germany either and that country has
installed 4.9 gigawatts of solar already this year,” he said.
“In the U.K. there certainly should be a return for investors
from a combination of the feed-in tariff and solar radiation.”  In April, the U.K. government introduced feed-in tariff
subsidies, guaranteeing a set selling price for power produced
by small-scale renewable energy projects. Ground-mounted and
rooftop solar projects will qualify for this tariff, provided
they do not go above 5 megawatts.  “There is now a logjam of planning applications starting
to be released,” Richards said yesterday. “The first project
approval happened in Cornwall a couple of weeks ago.” He
expects a “big increase in momentum in the next 12-18 months”
ahead of March 2012, when the level of the tariff is scheduled
to be reviewed by the government.  Venture capital trusts allow U.K. investors a number of tax
advantages, including income tax relief on their initial
commitment and no income tax on dividends paid. Each investor
can commit 3,000 to 200,000 pounds.  Foresight already has other funds active in environmental
sectors, including a solar fund aimed at the Italian and Spanish
markets. In September, the company said its European Solar Fund
had completed 30 megawatts of transactions, including most
recently the construction of a 2.6-megawatt plant in Marche,
Italy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus McCrone  in London at 
 Amccrone1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 