-- Telkom Kenya Looks to Data to Boost Sales as Call Charges Drop
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-10-06T13:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/france-telecom-s-kenya-unit-looks-to-data-for-growth-as-call-charges-drop.html
Telkom Kenya Ltd., a unit of  France
Telecom SA , plans to boost data offerings to drive sales growth
as industrywide cuts to mobile-phone call charges dent profit,
Chief Executive Officer  Mickael Ghossein  said.  Data-content services will expand and improve as the
company invests in its third fiber-optic cable, known as Lower
Indian Ocean Network 2, or Lion 2, Ghossein said today in an
interview in Nairobi, the capital. The connection will link the
Kenyan port city of Mombasa with the Indian Ocean island of
Mauritius via  Madagascar  when it is completed in June 2012.  “With voice now we are fighting with competitive prices,”
Ghossein said. “Unfortunately the bottom line is impacted. Data
will be the key driver in the future.”  Kenya’s telecommunications regulator in August ordered
mobile-phone operators to halve the rates they charge each other
to transmit calls across networks. That triggered a round of
reductions in call costs by companies to as low as 2 shillings
(less than 1 cent) per minute. Telkom Kenya competes with
 Safaricom Ltd. , the country’s biggest mobile-phone company, and
Zain Kenya, a unit of  Bharti Airtel Ltd.   The price cuts by mobile operators were too deep and will
probably result in revenue losses and curb investment in the
industry, Kenya’s Communications Ministry Permanent Secretary
Bitange Ndemo said last month.  Lion 2 will cost 56.5 million euros ($78.4 million) to
build, with France Telecom investing 31.3 million euros,
according to a  statement  on the company’s website dated Sept.
23. Telkom Kenya is a joint venture between the Kenyan
government and France Telecom.  TEAMS, Eassy  Telkom Kenya already has a 22 percent stake in the East
African Marine System fiber-optic cable, known as TEAMS, and
owns 8 percent of the competing East African Submarine System,
stretching 10,000 kilometers (6,215 miles) and linking 20
African nations.  As part of the plan to boost data offerings, Telkom Kenya
reached an agreement with  Equity Bank Ltd. , Kenya’s biggest
lender by customers, for the bank to provide loans to customers
to buy mobile phones and laptops from Telkom Kenya.  The program will target the 94 percent of Kenyans who don’t
have a computer and encourage mobile-phone owners to buy
upgraded models with services such as Internet and television,
Equity Chief Executive Officer  James Mwangi  told reporters today
in Nairobi.  “Offers like this will improve our data business,” Ghossein
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 Smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 