-- Frankfurt's Office Market Revives on Improved Rental Prospects
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-10-07T10:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/frankfurt-s-office-property-market-revives-on-improved-prospects-for-rents.html
Frankfurt’s office property market
will probably attract the most investment this year since 2007
as the strengthening economy fuels demand for space,  CB Richard
Ellis Group Inc.  and  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc . said.  Investors spent about 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) on
office purchases in Germany’s main financial center in the first
nine months, 36 percent more than in all of 2009, according to
the commercial property brokers. Spending in the fourth quarter
alone may match the total for the previous three.  “Demand has been rising enormously since the spring,”
Burkhard Plesser, CBRE’s head of investment in Frankfurt, said
in an interview. “Investors are looking for good locations and
long leases.”  Confidence among German businesses and consumers is at a
three-year high. The economy, Europe’s largest, grew 2.2 percent
in the second quarter, the most since reunification 20 years
ago.  The amount of new space leased to tenants including the
European Central Bank and Allianz Global Investors rose 25
percent in the first nine months of 2010 from a year earlier.
Investment spending may total about 2 billion euros for the
whole year, said  Marcus Lemli , head of leasing and capital
markets at Jones Lang in Germany.  Investors spent 16.1 billion euros on offices in Frankfurt
between 2005 and 2007. That slumped to 1.6 billion euros in
2008 and 735 million euros last year, Jones Lang said.  ‘Hot Spots’  Next year, rental growth in Frankfurt is expected to be 2.9
percent, driven by a lack of new developments, Savills Plc said
in an Oct. 5 report. The London-based property broker added the
Frankfurt and Munich office markets to its top five “hot
spots” for risk-averse investors.  Frankfurt’s biggest transaction in the third quarter was
the 126 million-euro acquisition of the Fuerstenhof office
building by Deutsche Immobilien Holding AG, an investment
company based in Delmenhorst, Germany. The property, mainly
occupied by  Commerzbank AG , was sold by Hamburg-based Union
Investment Real Estate AG last month.  The attractiveness of German office properties is
highlighted by the 250 basis-point spread between the yield on
this type of building and the yield on 10-year government bonds.
That’s the widest for at least 23 years, according to Jones
Lang, the second-largest publicly traded commercial property
broker after CBRE. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  It’s not just Germans who are making purchases in
Frankfurt. Foreign investors accounted for 40 percent of all
commercial real estate deals by value in the first half,
according to Savills.  Keeping Tenants  A drop in the number of commercial developments since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. two years ago has
helped German landlords keep their tenants.  “There has been very little reduction of space by the main
occupiers,” Lemli said. The number of deals will probably
“turn a lot faster than the market is expecting.”  Until now, office values have recovered more slowly than in
London and Paris, Savills said.  “As some investors get priced out of these markets, we
forecast the next wave of significant yield compression will
occur in German office stock, which is seeing increased investor
focus,” Giles Wilcox, head of cross-border investment at
Savills, said in an e-mailed statement Oct. 4.  New office space amounting to 371,000 square meters (4
million square feet) was leased in the first nine months, more
than the 350,000 square meters leased in all of 2009, CBRE
estimates.  Finance, Law  “The expansion has been driven by the financial sector and
also from law firms,” said Richard Tucker, CBRE’s head of
Frankfurt leasing. “We haven’t seen this for two years.”  The ECB is moving into a new headquarters, a building on
the site of a former wholesale market with space of 104,000
square meters. It was biggest lease signed in the city so far
this year in terms of space.  Allianz Global agreed to lease 27,100 square meters, Tucker
said. Parent Allianz SE, Europe’s largest insurer, bought the
10-story Triton office building from IVG Immobilien AG real
estate funds in August. Its fund unit will occupy the space in
2013 after refurbishments.  The Opernturm tower in Frankfurt will probably be bought by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s asset-management unit for less than 600
million euros, Handelsblatt reported on Oct. 5, citing people it
didn’t identify. The 42-story building is owned by Tishman
Speyer Properties LP.  Rick Matthews , a spokesman for Tishman Speyer in New York,
and  Kristen Chambers , a spokeswoman for J.P. Morgan Asset
Management in New York, had no immediate comment two days ago.  Higher Rents  Rents for the best office properties in Frankfurt’s main
business district will probably rise to about 34 euros a square
meter next year from 33 euros in the first half of 2010,
according to Jones Lang.  Typically, German office leases last for five years.
Investors prefer those lasting 10 years or longer, especially
for lower-quality properties, Plesser said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 