-- French Transport Unions Back Call for Open-Ended Strike Starting Oct. 12
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-10-06T15:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/french-transport-unions-back-call-for-open-ended-strike-starting-oct-12.html
French railworker unions, joining
Paris subway workers, said they will start open-ended strikes
from Oct. 12 if President  Nicolas Sarkozy  refuses to scrap plans
to raise the retirement age by two years.  “If the government remains deaf, we have the right to
adapt our way of protesting to weigh on the government and the
president’s decisions,”  Didier Le Reste , head of the
 Confederation Generale du Travail-Cheminots , the biggest union
at national railroad company SNCF, said in an interview today.  CGT-Cheminots and SNCF’s other largest unions -- Force
Ouvriere, UNSA CFDT and Sud Rail -- voted in favor of the strike
today, a day after labor representatives at Paris subway
operator  RATP  adopted the strike plan. Port, refinery and
maritime unions may also join the strike. Schools and airlines
labor unions haven’t revealed their intentions yet.  French workers have held strikes and demonstrations three
times since early September over Sarkozy’s planned pension-
system overhaul. A poll yesterday in the Paris Match weekly
magazine showed his approval rating dropped 3 points from
September to 35 percent, near the record low of 33 percent in
May, according to the Paris-based  Ifop  institute.  The strike will start Oct. 12 and may be renewed every 24
hours if unions decide to continue, “depending on the response
of the government,” the  Confederation Francaise Democratique du
Travail  for the Paris subway said in a statement yesterday.  Minimum Service  “It’s up to this social movement to freely decide how to
pursue its action,” government spokesman  Luc Chatel  told
reporters  today . “The government has set up a minimum service
in public transportation.”  Labor unions said 2.9 million people across France
demonstrated against the reform on Oct. 2. Police put the number
at 899,000. A Sept. 23 rally drew between 997,000 and 3 million
protesters, according to figures released by the government and
unions.  Opposition  to tighter pension rules in France sparked
extended strikes in 2003 and 2007. In 1995, then-President
Jacques Chirac dropped an attempt to eliminate retirement
privileges for transport workers after walkouts crippled the
country.  Sarkozy’s pension bill raises the retirement age to 62 from
60 and lifts the age for a full pension to 67 from 65. The
legislation also increases taxes on households and companies to
plug the deficit of the country’s pay-as-you-go pension system.  CFDT and other unions want the government to suspend the
bill, which was approved by the  National Assembly  on Sept. 15
and is now being debated in the Senate.  Enough Concessions  The  government  says it has made enough concessions,
including allowing people who began working in their teens to
retire at 60, and argues that raising the retirement age is
necessary to cope with an ageing population and help balance the
budget of the pension system by 2018.  France’s national pension system  faces a deficit of 10.7
billion euros ($14.8 billion) this year, with the shortfall set
to reach 50 billion euros in 2020 without a change in policy,
according to the Budget Ministry. Unions and the opposition
Socialist Party want to reduce losses through increased taxes on
capital and on high earners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  