-- Rail Unions Threaten Strikes in France From October 12 on Pension Reform
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-10-06T11:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/french-railworker-unions-threaten-strikes-from-oct-12-on-pension-reform.html
French railworker unions may today
join Paris subway workers in calling for rolling strikes
starting Oct. 12 to protest President  Nicolas Sarkozy’s  plan to
raise the retirement age by two years.  “If the government remains deaf and chooses to force its
pensions system reform through, we have to adapt our protest to
what’s at stake,” Didier Le Reste, head of the  Confederation
Generale du Travail-Cheminots , the majority union at the
national railroad company SNCF, said in an interview with
 Agence-France Presse  today.  SNCF’s biggest unions, CGT-Cheminots and Sud Rail, have
called for rolling strikes ahead of a vote later today. Labor
representatives at Paris subway operator  RATP  adopted the
rolling strike plan yesterday. Port, refinery and maritime
unions may also join the strike.  French workers have held strikes and demonstrations three
times since early September over Sarkozy’s planned pensions
overhaul. A poll yesterday in the Paris Match weekly magazine
showed his approval rating dropped 3 points from September to 35
percent, near the record low of 33 percent in May, according to
the Paris-based Ifop institute.  Minimum Service  “It’s up to this social movement to freely decide how to
pursue its action,” Government spokesman Luc Chatel told
reporters today. “The government has set up a minimum service
in public transportation.”  The rolling strikes will start Oct. 12 and may be renewed
every 24 hours if the unions decide to continue “depending on
the response of the government,”  the Confederation Francaise
Democratique du Travail for the Paris  subway said in a statement
yesterday.  About 2.9 million people demonstrated against the reform
across France on Oct. 2, according to the labor unions, though
police put the number at 899,000. A Sept. 23 rally drew between
997,000 and 3 million protesters, according to figures released
by the government and unions.  Opposition  to tighter pension rules in France sparked
extended strikes in 2003 and 2007. In 1995, then-President
Jacques Chirac dropped an attempt to eliminate retirement
privileges for transport workers after walkouts crippled the
country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  