-- Fu, Zhang Dominate Sotheby's $52 Million Chinese Ink Auction
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-10-06T03:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/fu-zhang-dominate-sotheby-s-53-million-auction-of-chinese-ink-paintings.html
It was standing room only in
 Sotheby’s  Hong Kong saleroom as auctioneer Quek Chin Yeow
brought down the hammer on Fu Baoshi’s “Court Ladies,” the top
lot in a HK$407.3 million ($52.5 million) sale of Chinese ink
paintings.  Fu’s depiction of a Tang dynasty court woman and her maid
sold to a young boy sitting at the front of the room who obeyed
the instructions of the adult next to him to keep lifting his
paddle until he won both the picture and a round of applause
from the 200 or so people in the room. The final price, HK$33.1
million, was more than four times the HK$7 million high estimate.  All but three of the 270 lots offered found buyers, with
most beating their top estimates. The top 10 all went to Asian
private buyers, Sotheby’s said.  “It was incredibly strong,” said Quek, Sotheby’s deputy
chairman for Asia. “The market recovered in the spring auction,
and now it’s going from strength to strength.”  The Chinese paintings auction was the fourth day of
Sotheby’s weeklong autumn sale comprising about 3,200 lots, that
 Kevin Ching , chief executive officer for Asia, said would
probably exceed the auction house’s Hong Kong record of HK$2
billion, set in April. The traditional ink pictures were the
strongest showing so far, taking in more than double the HK$174
million high estimate.  Nine of the top 10 lots were by Fu,  Zhang Daqian  or Qi
Baishi, including Qi’s “Green Old Age,” that sold to Bao
Mingshan, a Suzhou, China-based businessman for HK$11.3 million,
including buyer’s commission. Bao bid against Sotheby’s Ching
who was representing a client on the telephone and who dropped
out after declining to raise his offer to HK$9.4 million because
the number “four” isn’t auspicious in Chinese. The picture was
one of five Bao bought for a total of more than HK$30 million.  ‘Slower Pace’  “Thirty million dollars is nothing,” said Bao, wearing a
lilac Kappa polo shirt and accompanied by a woman from a Beijing
auction house. “I bought even more at the spring auction.”  Sotheby’s April sale tallied HK$418 million, the record for
the auction house in this category. Fu also headlined that sale
with his “Chess Playing” selling to Beijing-based dealer Wu
Qun for HK$38.7 million.  “The pace seems to be slower than last time,” said Hong
Kong-based private collector Susan Lam, who is originally from
Beijing, in an interview in the room. “It could be that some
owners are holding onto their collection.”  This week’s sales by New York-based  Sotheby’s  at the  Hong
Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre  include wines, modern and
contemporary art, ceramics and antiques. Today’s sessions of
jewelry and watches include a 6.4 carat pink diamond.  Contemporary Sale  On Monday, a Shanghai museum paid an artist record HK$52.18
million for  Zhang Xiaogang ’s 1992 “Chapter of a New Century --
Birth of the People’s Republic of China II,” as the auction
house took in a total of HK$471 million for modern and
contemporary Asian art. Of the 485 lots on Monday, 77 percent
found buyers.  Buying yesterday was again dominated by mainland Chinese.  One woman wearing a red sapphire ring and carrying a Chanel
bowler handbag on her lap, bought Lin Fengmian’s “Lady Holding
a Lotus” for HK$2.9 million including buyer’s premium, compared
with its high estimate of HK$1.8 million. After she won, her
iPhone, in a  Louis Vuitton  monogram cover, rang. She turned to
the woman next to her after taking the call and jokingly said:
“My husband just called. I said I didn’t buy anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 