-- G-7 Stakes Increase as Global Policy Divide Raises Pressure, Macklem Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-06T19:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/g-7-stakes-increase-as-global-divide-on-policy-raises-pressure-for-unity.html
Moves by countries from Japan to
Brazil to weaken currencies and loosen monetary policies
underscore the growing “stakes” for the global economy and the
need for policy makers to correct imbalances together, Bank of
Canada Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem said.  South Korea has moved in recent weeks to spur growth and
weaken its currency. The Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia and
India have indicated in the past two months they may seek to
curb volatility, while the U.S. Federal Reserve and the Bank of
England are considering more asset purchases to boost private
lending. The moves prompted Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to warn Sept. 27 of a “currency war.”  “These recent events are illustrative of the fact that the
pressures for adjustment are building,” Macklem, 49, said in an
interview in Montreal yesterday. “The stakes are getting
higher.”  Group of Seven ministers, chaired by Canadian Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty , will gather Oct. 8 at a dinner in
Washington on the sidelines of an International Monetary Fund
meeting. Flaherty said “some” finance ministers will meet
tomorrow. There are no plans to issue a statement, he said.  The meetings could produce a clash of views among countries
that prefer flexible exchange rates and others, such as China,
which are resisting calls to allow its currency to appreciate.  Flaherty told reporters in Ottawa today that “we don’t
want these kind of distortions in currency values or distortions
in trading relationships.”  ‘Considerable Posturing’  “What we want to see primarily is a move across the board
to more flexible exchange rates,” said  David Tulk , a senior
macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank. “You can have
considerable posturing on the side of politicians and that
creates a very difficult environment for businesses and even
households to make decisions.”  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said this week
he’s ready to explain to G-7 counterparts the country’s reasons
for carrying out foreign-exchange intervention.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  today rejected U.S. and European
pressure for a faster appreciation of its currency.  “If the
yuan isn’t stable, it will bring disaster to China and the
world,” Wen told a business conference before an European
Union-China summit in Brussels today.  Inflation Risk  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday that China’s moves have been “not exactly what we
would have hoped ourselves.”  China must allow further flexibility in its currency,
Macklem said, or risk creating rapid inflation in its domestic
market.  “We have seen some appreciation of the renminbi but not
enough,” he said. “The Chinese real exchange rate needs to
appreciate, and that adjustment will happen one way or the
other.”  The yuan has risen about 2 percent versus the dollar since
the People’s Bank of China in June pledged greater flexibility
in the currency after pegging it at about 6.83 for two years.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today that
a “damaging dynamic” of large economies keeping their
currencies undervalued can cause inflation and asset bubbles,
and called on countries to coordinate their policies. He said at
a speech in Washington that currencies are “inherently a
multilateral issue. It’s much easier to solve if countries come
together and do things to complement each other.”  ‘Struggle’  “It’s a struggle for all of these economies to weaken
their currency,” said Tulk. “The reality is the U.S. dollar is
going to remain fundamentally weak because they are the biggest
player right now in terms of contemplating quantitative
easing.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues have
signaled they may announce the purchase of more Treasuries as
soon as their next policy meeting on Nov. 2-3 in an effort to
boost growth and cut an unemployment rate stuck near 10 percent.  “The irony is that the Fed is creating all this liquidity
with the hope that it will revive the U.S. economy. It is doing
nothing for the U.S. economy and causing chaos for the rest of
the world,”  Joseph Stiglitz , a Nobel Prize-winning professor at
New York’s Columbia University, said yesterday in New York.  Japan sold the yen last month for the first time in six
years to spur exports and economic growth, joining countries
across Asia and Latin America that have sought to temper gains
in their currencies against the dollar.  International Moves  The Bank of Japan this week cut its overnight call rate
target from 0.1 percent and established a 5 trillion yen ($60
billion) fund to buy government bonds and other assets. It moved
following the yen’s surge to a 15-year high last month, which
hurts exports and damps economic growth.  At the Bank of England, policy maker  Adam Posen  made the
strongest call yet on Sept. 28 for the U.K. central bank to
resume asset purchases after keeping its bond-buying program at
200 billion pounds ($317 billion) for the past 11 months.  Earlier this year, the G-20 agreed to implement policies to
boost demand, including promoting exchange-rate flexibility and
ensuring sustainable government deficits. Macklem said that must
be a focus of this year’s G-20 gatherings.  “In the meetings to come in Washington and Korea there
will be considerable discussion of the full implementation of
the agreements that were taken in Toronto,” Macklem said.
“What we need is full implementation of that plan.”  The renewed push for easier monetary policy comes as the
IMF today said many advanced nations such as the U.S. have yet
to adopt policies that will reduce their reliance on government
spending and strengthen household demand and exports. At the
same time, developing nations such as China are keeping their
currencies weak and remain overly dependent on overseas sales to
spur growth, the IMF’s World Economic Outlook report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Montreal at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 