-- Gambon’s Beckett, Jarre Rocks, Top British Food: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-10-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/gambon-s-beckett-jarre-rocks-o2-top-british-food-great-london-weekend.html
An old man with a hole in his
shirttails pulls a banana out of his desk and chomps on it with
evident glee.  The man’s name is Krapp, and he’s the lone character in
 Samuel Beckett ’s “ Krapp’s Last Tape ,” starring  Michael Gambon 
(also known as Dumbledore in “Harry Potter”).  After a long, wordless start in which bananas are consumed,
Krapp celebrates his 69th birthday by playing a reel he recorded
on his 39th, when life and love still held out hope.  “Just been listening to that stupid bastard I took myself
for 30 years ago,” Krapp barks into the microphone, as he
begins the recording that will be his last.  Gambon, who is also 69, pulls off this theatrical tour de
force. The play ends Nov. 20 at the  Duchess Theatre , 3-5
Catherine Street, London WC2B 5LA. Information:
 http://www.nimaxtheatres.co.uk  or +44-844-412-4659.  Saturday  A racy vision adorns the poster for the latest extravaganza
at the  Royal Academy  of Arts: two women embracing, only one
wearing clothes (a red negligee).  Egon Schiele’s  1915 work is one of more than 200 on loan in
“Treasures from Budapest: European Masterpieces from Leonardo
to Schiele.” Tamer works include a proud water-carrier woman by
Goya, an unfinished Madonna by Raphael, and Rembrandt’s drawing
of his wealthy wife and sitter Saskia, who died at age 29.  Another gem: El Greco’s unusually suggestive portrait of
St. Mary Magdalene, who all but bares her left breast, and rests
her hand on a human skull.  The show, which ends Dec. 12, is at the Royal Academy,
Burlington House, Piccadilly, London W1J OBD. Information:
 http://www.royalacademy.org.uk  or +44-20-7300-8000.  Saturday Night  U.S. songwriter Jonathan Richman is back in London, playing
four shows including the  Monto Water Rats  on Saturday night.
Richman, 59, started with “Roadrunner” and “Egyptian Reggae”
and has continued making music such as the childlike “Tag
Game” and comic “Ice Cream Man.”  Rock fans who find Richman’s feigned innocence a little
irritating may prefer  Jean Michel Jarre , who brings his icy
synthesizers to the O2 arena this weekend. Information:
 http://www.themonto.com ,  http://www.theo2.co.uk/   Sunday  A Brueghel that may be sold by its aristocratic owner has
triggered a  U.K.-wide campaign  to keep it where it is.  “The Procession to Calvary” (1602) by  Pieter Brueghel  the
Younger shows Christ bearing the cross in a crowd of 200 and a
Flemish landscape. It has hung for two centuries at  Nostell
Priory  in Yorkshire, and if 2.7 million pounds ($4.3 million)
aren’t found by year end, the “for sale” sign will go up.  You can see the Brueghel beside works by himself and his
father at the  National Gallery  through Nov. 9, and support the
campaign via the Art Fund, which has given 500,000 pounds:
 http://www.artfund.org .  Restaurant Picks  London used to be a culinary joke before  Marco Pierre White 
and  Gordon Ramsay  helped raise standards in the mid-1990s with
their fine French cooking. English cuisine still has a way to
go. Hix ( http://www.hixsoho.co.uk/ ) is the leader of the pack,
along with St John ( http://www.stjohnrestaurant.com/ ). For
tradition, try Wiltons ( http://www.wiltons.co.uk/home ), which
traces its history to 1742.  ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 