-- GE Buys Citigroup Retail Loans in Sign of Consumer Confidence
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-10-06T17:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ge-acquires-citigroup-retail-loans-in-first-consumer-purchase-since-2008.html
General Electric Co.  bought retailer
finance loans from  Citigroup Inc. , adding $1.6 billion in U.S.-
based assets in GE Capital’s first consumer purchase since the
financial crisis took hold in 2008.  The loan portfolio, part of the Citi Holdings group tagged
for sale, provides consumer credit in three dozen retail chains
for 18,000 locations, GE said in a statement today. Financial
terms weren’t disclosed. The acquisition will add to earnings
immediately, said  Mark Begor , who oversees GE’s consumer finance
divisions in the Americas.  GE, the biggest issuer of store-brand credit cards, is
expanding a finance business started more than 70 years ago to
provide loans for buyers of its refrigerators and ovens. GE
Capital’s improved market position and lending expertise, as
well as signs that consumer spending is coming off its bottom,
made the purchase attractive, Begor said.  “We have pretty good visibility on the consumer, how
they’re operating,” he said in a telephone interview. “And the
similarity of this business to ours gives us confidence in
making the acquisition.”  The unit of New York-based  Citigroup  has been a smaller
competitor, and buying the loans adds about 13 percent to GE’s
$12.5 billion in assets in its retail finance unit, he said.
Begor didn’t provide a figure on the acquisition’s expected
addition to  earnings .  The North American consumer retail business of Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE, including the credit card unit, has about
$41 billion in assets, Begor said.  ‘Brutal’ Environment  The purchase shows GE’s ability to manage in a “brutal
economic environment,” he said. Retail delinquencies at GE
Capital fell 87 basis points to 6.29 percent in the second
quarter and continued to improve in the third quarter, Begor
said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “We’ve actually seen some life in the consumer base in the
last 90 days,” he said. “We’re starting to see in our business
some good high-single digit increases over last year.”  The increase is coming off a low base, Begor said.
Consumers still “will be careful about what they buy. And we
think that’s going to continue for a while.”  The  Citigroup  unit provides credit to retail outlets
including home furnishings, flooring, consumer electronics, and
heating and cooling. The retail-partners credit card business
was one of at least two dozen units tagged for sale or eventual
closure in early 2009 following Citigroup’s $45 billion
government bailout.  Citi Holdings, which houses the units marked for exit, had
$465 billion of assets as of June 30, including $53 billion in
the retail-partners card business.  Off the Block  GE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  had put his
company’s credit card unit up for sale in late 2007, and pulled
it off the block the following year because of the financial
crisis. As competitors weakened and GE’s consumer finance
results improved this year, GE began to see an advantage, Begor
said. The credit-card unit’s biggest customers include retailers
such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and J.C. Penney Co.  “That’s where we have real scale, in the U.S.” he said.
“We like that position. If we could find another transaction
like this with the same returns and same strategic positioning
for us, we’d do it quickly.”  Adding Customers  GE’s retail finance unit has been adding customers in
recent months, signing partnerships with manufacturers and
retailers such as lawn-mower maker Toro Co. in February and
motorcycle maker Kawasaki Motors Corp. last month.  GE’s consumer finance units, which operate under the GE
Money brand, provided $1.66 billion of the parent company’s
$11.2 billion in profit from continuing operations last year.
The consumer units accounted for $162 billion of GE Capital’s
$588 billion in total assets at the end of June, according to a
 presentation  to investors in July.  Under Immelt, GE is working toward a goal to shrink the
finance unit’s  contribution to profit  to 30 percent of the
total, down from about half in 2007. It has a  goal  of earning
net investment, a measure of assets, of $440 billion in 2012.
The division had $487 billion in earning net investment at the
end of June, according to the investor presentation.  The purchase has been approved by regulators and Citigroup
will provide interim service until merchants and cardholders are
converted to its own system, GE said.  Separately, GE agreed to buy Dresser Inc. for $3 billion
today as the company expands its energy businesses, including
the oil and gas exploration unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  