-- GE to Buy Dresser for $3 Billion to Bolster Oil, Gas
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-10-06T20:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ge-to-buy-dresser-for-3-billion-as-immelt-bolsters-industrial-businesses.html
General Electric Co.  agreed to buy
oil-field equipment maker Dresser Inc. for $3 billion, expanding
its biggest industrial unit, as Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  begins spending cash accumulated over the past two years.  The purchase of closely held Dresser will add to earnings
next year, GE said today. The deal should “close promptly”
after receiving regulatory approval, GE said, without
elaborating. Dresser had $2 billion in 2009 revenue.  GE said in July it expects about $25 billion in
discretionary cash at the end of 2010 as economies improve and
performance of its finance unit stabilizes. Immelt, 54, raised
the dividend in July and is buying back shares, bolstering
research and development budgets and making acquisitions.  “One of the levers GE needs to pull is wise capital
allocation decisions, to spur earnings growth in 2011 and
2012,” said  Joel Levington , a managing director of corporate
credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York who
follows GE. “The size and strategic fit of Dresser works well,
in our view, as it adds product breadth to a core unit.”  Dresser’s majority owners are funds managed by Riverstone
Holdings LLC and First Reserve Corp. The Addison, Texas-based
company has 6,300 employees and posted earnings of $318 million
in 2009, according to the companies’ statements.  GE adds industrial valves and pumps to compete with
companies such as Tyco International Ltd., Flowserve Corp. and
Emerson Electric Co., according to  Jeffrey Sprague , a partner in
Stamford, Connecticut-based Vertical Research Partners Inc. GE
also bolsters offerings in meters and power compression, with
about two-thirds of Dresser’s total business from the oil-and-
gas industry, he wrote in a note to clients.  ‘Reasonable’ Price  “The price appears reasonable,” Sprague wrote, He
estimated that Dresser would contribute about 1 cent a share to
profit starting in 2011 and a return on invested capital of at
least 10 percent during the next five years. Sprague  rates
shares  of Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE a “hold.”  Oil-field service and equipment companies are “cruising in
the sweet spot,” analysts at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. wrote
today in a note to investors. Companies tied more to natural-gas
projects have performed better this year because of the greater
amount of work on those wells compared with oil wells,  Joe Hill ,
an analyst at Tudor Pickering in Houston, said in a telephone
interview. That could change as oil continues to rise and
generates more activity, he said.  There have been 43 acquisitions announced worldwide in the
past year in which the target was a closely held company in the
oil-field machinery and equipment industry, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average size was $85.2 million.  ‘Grow It’  “We’re doing this deal to grow it,” Vice Chairman  John Krenicki , who oversees the energy businesses as chief executive,
said of Dresser in an interview. “We know the customers. We
like the technology. The businesses they have are leaders in the
spaces they’re in.”  Krenicki said he spends as much as 6 percent of GE Energy
Infrastructure sales on product development, and will apply that
to Dresser. About 85 percent of Dresser and GE Energy
Infrastructure’s customers are common, he said. More than 40
percent of Dresser’s revenue is from services.  Solomon Dresser founded what would become Dresser Inc. in
1880 after patenting a packer used to isolate oil below the
ground, according to the company’s website. Halliburton Co.
acquired Dresser in 1998 and divested it in 2001, the year after
Dick Cheney stepped down as Halliburton CEO to become U.S. vice
president.  GE  rose  39 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $16.90 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the highest closing
price since May 19. The  shares  have gained 12 percent this year.  Energy Business  Immelt said this year he wants to expand the GE Energy
Infrastructure segment, also the world’s biggest provider of
power-generation equipment.  GE Oil & Gas , a division of the $37
billion Energy Infrastructure business, is expanding as global
demand increases and more sophisticated equipment and methods
are needed to extract fossil fuels.  The division makes turbines that drive compressors and
compressor trains, exploration equipment, condensers, metering
systems and other machinery for the oil and natural-gas
industries. GE had $157 billion in revenue last year.  “We’ve always talked about diversity” in the division,
Krenicki said. “The fact that we did the Dresser deal shows
that we have lots of options, lots of choices and lots of room
to grow and play offense.”  The division is investing in acquisitions as well as growth
from its existing assets, he said.  Barclays Capital advised GE in the transaction. Morgan
Stanley advised Dresser.  Rejected Offer  GE said earlier today that Wellstream Holdings Plc, a U.K.-
based provider of oil-field services provider focused on Brazil,
rejected a 755 million-pound ($1.2 billion) takeover offer. Last
week, GE Energy bought the waste-heat power generation business
of closely held Calnetix Inc. for an undisclosed sum, adding to
its Jenbacher biogas unit.  Krenicki declined to comment further on Wellstream.  In addition, GE Capital said today that it bought retailer
finance loans from Citigroup Inc., adding $1.6 billion in U.S.-
based assets in GE Capital’s first consumer purchase since the
financial crisis took hold in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  