-- Geithner Calls for Currency Cooperation Amid Rush to Weaken
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-10-07T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/geithner-sees-a-damaging-dynamic-in-policies-to-undervalue-currencies.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  called for cooperation to rebalance currency markets
and warned of a “damaging dynamic” of competitive weakening
that could limit global growth.  “More and more countries face stronger pressure to lean
against the market forces pushing up the value of their
currencies,” Geithner said in a speech yesterday in Washington.
Currencies are “inherently a multilateral issue” that is
“much easier to solve if countries come together.”  Global exchange-rate policies are a source of contention
ahead of this week’s meeting in Washington of the International
Monetary Fund, World Bank and Group of 20 officials. Brazil’s
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  last week warned of a “currency
war” as governments in Asia and Latin America seek to spur
exports and economic growth.  The tensions are “at least a policing action” if not yet
an outright currency war, said  Edwin Truman , a former U.S.
Treasury official who is a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics, in an email.  The dollar slumped to a 15-year low against the yen
yesterday, while the euro touched an eight-month high.  The
Dollar Index  of six major currencies fell to levels last seen in
January as the U.S. central bank is forecast to join the Bank of
Japan in increasing purchases of government debt to spur growth.  ‘Greatest Risk’  Geithner, in a speech at the Brookings Institution, said
the “greatest risk to the world economy today is that the
largest economies underachieve on growth.” He also said the
U.S. economy is “absolutely healing” and is seeing stability
in house prices, even though the market remains “very weak.”  He kept up his calls for China to let the yuan rise against
the dollar, saying the “main problem” is that a group of
developing nations are not allowing their currencies to rise.  China is less likely to allow the yuan to climb if it is
“not confident other countries will move with it,” Geithner
said. The issue “is not something we’re going to solve in the
next three months.”  While Geithner said countries need to cooperate, he stopped
short of endorsing an update of the Plaza Accord, the 1985
agreement among the world’s five major economies to weaken the
dollar. He also said it’s important not to “focus too much” on
currencies.  “It is very important to see more progress by the major
emerging economies to more flexible, more market-oriented
exchange-rate systems,” Geithner said. “This is particularly
important for those countries whose currencies are significantly
undervalued.”  IMF Comments  Geithner’s comments echoed calls by the IMF for greater
currency flexibility as part of an effort to encourage more
balanced global growth, with emerging nations relying less on
exports and developed countries curbing their appetite for
imported goods.  “Many emerging-market economies continue to run large
current-account surpluses and to respond to capital inflows
primarily through reserve accumulation rather than exchange-rate
appreciation,” the IMF’s chief economist,  Olivier Blanchard ,
wrote in a report released yesterday. “International reserves
are higher than they have ever been and continue to increase.”  Geithner said last month the Obama administration will use
every available tool to urge China to let its currency rise more
quickly. China has capped the yuan’s gain at 2 percent since
relaxing a dollar peg in June, leading to criticism that it is
stunting the recovery in the industrial world by shielding its
market from U.S. and European imports.  Fresh Rebuke  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said yesterday a rapid increase
of the yuan would hobble China’s economy, dealing a fresh rebuke
to U.S. and European calls for a higher exchange rate.  “If the yuan isn’t stable, it will bring disaster to China
and the world,” Wen told a business conference before a Europe-
China summit in Brussels. “If we increase the yuan by 20
percent-40 percent as some people are calling for, many of our
factories will shut down and society will be in turmoil. If
China’s economy goes down, it’s not good for the world
economy.”  Geithner said Japan didn’t fuel international tensions when
it intervened last month. When asked whether he thought Japan
“set the fire” for the current market dynamic, Geithner
responded, “I don’t, no.”  Japan intervened in the currency market for the first time
since 2004 after the yen rose to a 15-year high against the
dollar. Japan sold 2.12 trillion yen ($25 billion) from Aug. 28
through Sept. 28, according to the Ministry of Finance.  Yen Gains  The yen has risen 12 percent against the dollar this year,
the best performance among 16 major counterparts, on concern the
U.S. recovery will slow and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will
worsen.  On Europe, Geithner said not all the continent’s nations
face the same obstacles.  “I think you have to distinguish the challenges faced by
Greece, by Spain, Portugal, Ireland,” Geithner said in response
to questions. Those countries need “to move very, very
aggressively to bring their commitments more in line with their
resources. That is the essential path for policy in those
countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net .
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  