-- Geithner Backs EU Hedge Fund-Regulation Proposal, Wants France to Sign On
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-10-06T19:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/geithner-backs-eu-hedge-fund-regulation-proposal-wants-france-to-sign-on.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  backed revised European Union proposals to regulate
hedge funds and suggested France should also sign on.  Geithner said in Oct. 5 letters to European finance
officials that nations shouldn’t be allowed to opt out of the
hedge fund rules. For months, he has urged the EU to ensure its
directive on Alternative Investment Fund Managers doesn’t
discriminate against managers and funds from countries outside
Europe.  A proposal that immediately would let outside fund managers
obtain a “passport” for operating throughout Europe “meets
the test of non-discrimination” that Group of 20 nations
endorsed in June, Geithner wrote to French Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde , U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble . Other
proposals would put Europe at odds with G-20 pledges, he said.  “I understand that France has expressed opposition to this
proposal and that new language is being drafted that would allow
member states to opt out of the passport or delay a decision on
the passport, while EU-domiciled firms are granted EU-wide
access,” Geithner said in the letters, obtained today by
Bloomberg News.  “We would consider adoption of such a proposal as unfair
and damaging to our shared interest in maintaining an open,
global financial system,” Geithner said.  Bruno Silvestre, a spokesman for the French Finance
Ministry in Paris, declined immediate comment.  More Disclosures  The new rules would require funds to disclose more
information about their investment strategy to regulators.  The European Commission proposed laws to regulate hedge-
fund and private-equity managers last year. Member states and
the European Parliament haven’t agreed on amendments to the
planned rules.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
commissioner, said last week he would push for a quick agreement
that would include the passport provision.  The regulation, allowing hedge funds to register in one EU
jurisdiction rather than in each of the 27 member states, will
be in the final draft of the law “one way or another,” Barnier
said today to reporters in Brussels.  France is seeking to exclude itself from the rules
proposed,  Syed Kamall , a U.K. conservative member of the EU
Parliament, said in an e-mailed statement. France also wants to
decide what restrictions should be imposed on funds under the
EU’s proposed passport arrangement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  