-- Geithner Says Japan Isn't to Blame for Global Currency Tension
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-10-06T22:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/geithner-says-japan-intervention-not-to-blame-for-global-currency-tensions.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Japan didn’t fuel international tensions when it
intervened in the foreign-exchange market last month.  The Treasury chief said today there’s a “damaging
dynamic” at work in currency markets as countries race to limit
appreciation. When asked whether he thought Japan had “set the
fire” for this dynamic, Geithner responded, “I don’t, no” in
remarks at the Brookings Institution.  Instead, Geithner kept up his calls for China to let the
yuan rise against the dollar. He said the “main problem”
facing foreign-exchange markets is “a set of emerging-market
economies that both remain undervalued and are leaning heavily
against the pressures for appreciation.”  Geithner’s comments were his first on the yen since Japan
announced on Sept. 15 that it had intervened to weaken its
currency to boost exports and economic growth. He remained
silent on the topic during about four hours of congressional
testimony on currency markets and also multiple broadcast media
appearances the same week.  By giving Japan a pass on its actions, the U.S. is sticking
to its effort to seek a rise in the yuan and other Asian
currencies against the dollar, said  Marc Chandler , global head
of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New
York.  “I don’t think we should expect the U.S. to be singling
out a single country for what many people perceive to be the
sins of many,” Chandler said in a telephone interview.  15-Year High  Japan intervened in the currency market for the first time
since 2004 after the yen rose to a 15-year high against the
dollar. Japan sold 2.12 trillion yen ($25 billion) from Aug. 28
through Sept. 28, according to the Ministry of Finance.  The yen has risen 12 percent against the dollar this year,
the best performance among 16 major counterparts, as concern the
U.S. economic recovery will slow and Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis will worsen boosted demand for Japan’s currency as a
refuge.  Geithner’s comments today come as he prepared for meetings
with his European and Japanese counterparts at this week’s
International Monetary Fund and Group of Seven finance
ministers’ meetings. The G-7 meetings will discuss currencies
when they gather in Washington, a Canadian finance department
official told reporters on a conference call today, adding that
Canada would like to see a more flexible Chinese currency.  China is less likely to allow the yuan to rise if it is
“not confident other countries will move with it,” Geithner
said. He said the issue “is not something we’re going to solve
in the next three months.”  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said a rapid increase of the
yuan would hobble China’s economy. Wen said in Brussels today
that China will stick to its policy of gradually increasing the
currency’s flexibility and faulted European leaders for teaming
with the U.S. to pressure the Chinese government.  China’s central bank set its yuan reference rate at 6.6805 
on Sept. 30, the strongest level against the dollar since the 
currency was first pegged in 1993. Chinese markets have been 
closed since then due to holidays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  