-- General Motors Receives Same Credit Rating Before IPO From Fitch as Ford
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-10-06T20:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/general-motors-receives-same-credit-rating-before-ipo-from-fitch-as-ford.html
General Motors Co. was given the same
credit rating as  Ford Motor Co.  from Fitch Ratings, which said
the largest U.S. automaker has improved its balance sheet as it
plans an initial public offering to pare government stakes.  GM was given an initial BB- issuer default rating, the same
as Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford, Fitch said in a statement
today. The rating for Detroit-based GM, 61 percent owned by the
U.S. government, reflects its “strong liquidity position, low
leverage, improved cost structure and increasingly competitive
product portfolio,” wrote  Stephen Brown , a Fitch analyst.  “Although they have similar ratings, you sort of get to
them from different paths,” Brown, who is based in Chicago, said
today in a telephone interview. “GM doesn’t have a whole lot of
debt, but they have very large pension obligations. Ford’s
pension obligations are significant, but they’re lower than GM’s
by quite a bit. But Ford has a lot of debt.”  GM emerged from bankruptcy in July 2009 having received $50
billion in federal aid. GM and the U.S. Treasury aim to hold an
$8 billion to $10 billion IPO in November, two people familiar
with the plans said last month.  The company’s pension plans were underfunded by $27 billion
through 2009, Fitch said. Ford’s pensions were underfunded by
about $6.1 billion through last year, down from $16 billion in
2008, Fitch said in an Aug. 6 report. Fitch raised its rating on
Ford in that report two steps to BB-, three levels below
investment grade.  GM Debt  GM had $8.2 billion of debt at the end of the second
quarter, compared to $32 billion in cash, Fitch said. Ford had
about $27 billion in debt and $22 billion in cash for its
automotive operations at the end of the first half of 2010.  “With the significant shedding of debt, the balance sheet
at GM is going to look much better than it did a year and a half
ago,” said  Greg Petryszyn , a fixed-income analyst at
Minneapolis-based Thrivent Financial.  GM’s 8.375 percent bonds due July 2033, which were issued
by old General Motors Corp. and convert to shares in the new GM,
were unchanged at 34.5 cents on the dollar at 4:20 p.m. today in
New York, according to Trace, the bond-pricing service of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Ford’s 7.45 percent notes due in July 2031 rose 1.19 cents
to 108.44 cents on the dollar at 1:38 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  