-- Georgia Sells $654 Million Debt After Postponing Refunding on Rising Costs
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-10-06T19:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/georgia-sells-654-million-debt-after-postponing-refunding-on-rising-costs.html
Georgia, one of seven top-rated U.S.
states, raised $654 million in debt after postponing a third of
its planned sale because investors demanded higher yields amid
the heaviest volume for municipal bond sales in almost a year.  The issue follows a report by analyst  Meredith Whitney  that
the U.S. government will face a possible bailout of state
finances in the next 12 months. The study ranked Georgia among
the eight worst of 15 states with the largest economies,
according to a Fortune report last week.  Yesterday’s sale included 10-year bonds priced to yield
2.48 percent. While that’s a record low for the state, it’s 8
basis points above top-rated debt, according to a  Bloomberg
Valuation index . By comparison, a Nov. 24 issue of 10-year bonds
was priced 3 basis points below the index. A basis point is 0.01
of a percentage point.  “The issue is just the huge volume this week,” said  Alan Schankel,  managing director of fixed income research at
Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which oversees
$13 billion in fixed-income securities.  States and local governments are poised to borrow $13
billion this week, the most since the period ended Dec. 11,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About $12.6 billion was
offered during  the week  of Georgia’s Nov. 24 sale, the data
show.  “It wouldn’t appear that the report had a significant
impact,” said Lee McElhannon, director of bond finance for the
 Georgia State Financing & Investment Commission , which issued
the bonds. “It looks like the market continues to value our
paper as triple-A of the highest quality.”  Postponed Refunding  Georgia postponed a planned $321 million refunding sale as
yields rose over the past few weeks, said McElhannon. Top-rated
bond yields fell as low as 2.17 percent on Sept. 2, according to
the Bloomberg Valuation index. The state aims to lower the
present value of its debt by 4 percent when it reissues
obligations, he said.  While benchmark yields on top-rated 10-year munis have
 fallen  68 basis points since Nov. 2, rates have risen 10 basis
points in the past week, according to Bloomberg Valuation data.  Demand for Georgia paper is still high, even though it’s at
the “top of the awareness list for market participants”
because of a rash of foreclosures and bank failures,  Michael J. Schroeder , president and chief investment officer of Wasmer,
Schroeder & Co., which has $3.8 billion of assets under
management.  The state’s reserve fund, which stood at $1.5 billion at
the end of June 2007, fell to $104 million at the end of fiscal
2009, according to the  state’s  budget documents. The state
general fund appropriations fell 21 percent from  2008  to $14.6
billion in  2010 , according to budget documents.  Top Rating  Georgia is among seven states that are top rated by the
three major rating companies.  “The state’s longstanding AAA rating reflects conservative
debt management, a proven willingness and ability to support
fiscal balance, and a diversified economy,” wrote analyst
Alexandra Edwards in a Fitch Ratings report.  The sale comprised $255.1 million in tax-exempts; $233.5
million in Build Americas, which receive a 35 percent federal
subsidy on the interest; a $136.5 million issue of Recovery Zone
Economic Development bonds, which receive a 45 percent subsidy;
and a $28.8 million offering of qualified school construction
bonds, in which the interest is refunded by the federal
government.  The proceeds will be used for projects at more than a dozen
agencies, including  $223 million  to finance county, state and
independent school facilities and development, according to
preliminary bond documents. The commission today made the final
awards to Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc, who are underwriting
the bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 