-- German August Factory Orders Surge on Investment Goods Demand
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-10-06T10:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/germany-s-factory-orders-surge-four-times-as-much-as-forecast-on-exports.html
German  factory orders  increased
almost four times the pace economists forecast in August, led by
demand for investment goods such as machinery.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, jumped
3.4 percent from July, when they dropped a revised 1.6 percent,
the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists forecast a
0.9 percent gain, according to the median of 36 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey . From a year earlier, orders climbed 20.3
percent, when adjusted for working days.  Surging export demand helped the  German economy  expand at
the fastest pace in two decades in the second quarter.
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s biggest maker of luxury
cars, said last week that third-quarter deliveries beat its
forecasts. Nevertheless, with the global recovery cooling, the
economy is showing some signs of slowdown.  Investor  confidence
fell last month and  exports  dropped in July.  “There’s no reason for concern, the figures are superb,”
said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at DekaBank in Frankfurt.
“The German economy will feel the global slowdown, but on
balance we’ll still see outstanding growth in the second half.”  The euro was little changed immediately after the report,
before declining after the European Union said Greek debt
figures may be revised higher. As of 12:37 p.m. in Frankfurt, it
was at $1.3827, from $1.3839 yesterday.  ‘Strong Impulses’  Export orders gained 6.6 percent in August from the
previous month, while domestic sales fell 0.5 percent, today’s
report showed. Demand for investment goods rose 6.7 percent,
driven by a 23 percent jump in orders from the euro region.
Orders for consumer goods fell 3.9 percent.  Demand was led by “above-average” big-ticket orders, the
ministry said. While domestic demand has developed at a “more
moderate” pace in recent months, there are “continuous strong
impulses” from abroad, it said. The ministry previously
reported a drop of 2.2 percent in July.  The European Commission last month raised its forecast for
German economic growth to 3.4 percent from a previously
projected 1.2 percent. The 16-member  euro region  is seen
expanding 1.7 percent with more “moderate” growth in the
second half, according to the Brussels-based commission.  ‘Intact Recovery’  “Today’s numbers should hush any doubts on the
sustainability of the German recovery,” said  Carsten Brzeski ,
an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “The industry-led
recovery will not run out of fuel any time soon.”  Companies are relying on export growth to boost sales.
German plant and machinery orders rose 45 percent in August from
a year earlier, the VDMA machine makers’ association said on
Sept. 30. Export orders jumped 55 percent and domestic demand
increased 30 percent, VDMA said.  Siemens AG , Europe’s largest engineering company based in
Munich, on Sept. 27 predicted an increase in fiscal fourth-
quarter profit to “very satisfactory” levels as orders for
industrial equipment rebound.  Daimler AG , the world’s second-
largest manufacturers of luxury cars, said last month that sales
at its Mercedes-Benz unit jumped 22 percent in August.  Still, the euro-region recovery is already weakening.
Growth in Europe’s  services and manufacturing   industries 
weakened in September. A  composite index  based on a survey of
euro-area purchasing managers in both industries declined to
54.1 from 56.2 in August, London-based Markit Economics said
yesterday.  “We see a lessening speed of the recovery in Germany,”
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , who also sits on the European
Central Bank’s Governing Council, said last week. “But at the
core, this recovery is intact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  