-- German Bonds Rise on Speculation Central Banks Will Ease Monetary Policy
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-10-06T14:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/german-two-year-note-yields-near-one-week-low-before-debt-auction-ecb.html
German government bonds advanced on
speculation central banks around the world are preparing to
loosen monetary policy after the Bank of Japan unexpectedly
lowered interest rates yesterday.  Two-year yields were at the lowest in almost a week as
Germany sold 4.1 billion euros ($5.7 billion) of the securities.
Irish bonds fell relative to German bunds after the nation’s
credit grade was cut one level by Fitch Ratings. Japan’s central
bank said yesterday it will expand its balance sheet, following
the U.S. Federal Reserve in moving toward more unconventional
easing. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  may
signal tomorrow whether emergency measures designed to support
banks through the financial crisis will be removed.  “Bunds benefit from quantitative easing in the U.S.,
regardless of what the ECB does,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of
developed markets debt at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “Assuming
the ECB doesn’t pursue QE, that can stress the euro-zone
economy, which is also good for bunds.”  Ten-year bund yields were 5 basis points lower at 2.23
percent as of 2:57 p.m. in London. The 2.25 percent security due
September 2020 rose 0.475, or 4.75 euros per 1,000-euro face
amount, to 100.15. Two-year yields were 4 basis points lower at
0.77 percent.  Bunds extended gains as ADP Employer Services said U.S.
companies unexpectedly cut 39,000 workers in September, the
biggest drop since January. The median estimate of 37 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a gain of 20,000.  ‘Liquidity Injections’  “The ECB’s liquidity injections were their version of
quantitative easing, so it’s going to be very interesting to see
what Trichet has to say about them tomorrow,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European rates strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada Europe Ltd. Shorter-dated German debt “will be the most
responsive to the ECB, while bunds are being influenced more by
the cross markets and they’ve been well supported.”  Irish 10-year  bond yields  rose 12 basis points relative to
bunds for a yield spread of 422 basis points. Ireland was cut to
A+ from AA-, reflecting the “exceptional and greater-than-
expected cost” of the nation’s bailout of its banking system,
Fitch said in a statement today.  The move comes a day after Moody’s Investors Service said
the country’s rating may be cut. Ireland said last week the cost
of repairing its financial system may rise to as much as 50
billion euros ($69 billion), pushing its budget deficit this
year to a record 32 percent of gross domestic product.  Debt Auctions  “No one is going to change their fundamental view on
Ireland because of this downgrade, however, the news of the
downgrade itself always has the ability to catch people off-
guard,” said  Mohit Kumar , a fixed-income strategist at Deutsche
Bank AG in London. “Spreads will be volatile.”  Greek 10-year bonds rose  relative  to benchmark German bunds
even as the European Commission said it will revise the nation’s
debt and deficit figures, citing “areas of uncertainty.” The
bonds yielded 767 basis points more than bunds, from 773 basis
points yesterday.  Germany sold the 0.75 percent notes maturing in 2012 at an
average yield of 0.76 percent attracting bids worth 2.2 times
the amount offered, the Bundesbank said. The nation also sold 1
billion euros of 1.75 percent 10-year inflation-linked bonds at
an average yield of 0.57 percent, attracting bids worth 2.2
times the amount offered.  Portuguese Demand  Portugal sold 500 million euros of 3-month bills at an
average yield of 1.595 percent, and 500 million euros of 12
month-bills at an average yield of 3.333 percent.  The auctions garnered increased demand, with the securities
due in January attracting bids for 3 times the amount offered,
compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.5 at a similar sale in
August. Bidders for the September 2011 securities sought 2.8
times the amount offered, compared with the previous ratio of
1.6. Portugal sold all 1 billion euros of securities that the
debt agency, the IGCP, said it planned to issue.  The auction “was very well received, as demand was very
strong,” said  Chiara Cremonesi , a strategist at UniCredit SpA
in London. “This is remarkable given the market isn’t very
positive about Portugal right now.”  German  factory orders  surged 3.4 percent in August from a
month earlier, more than the 0.9 percent median estimate of 36
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  German bonds returned 9.2 percent this year, compared with
9.1 percent for U.S. Treasuries and 9.7 percent for U.K. gilts,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  