-- Global Copyright Accord Is Scaled Back After Google Led Push for Changes
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-10-06T20:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/global-copyright-accord-is-scaled-back-after-google-led-push-for-changes.html
A counterfeiting agreement aimed at
stepping up international enforcement of copyright protections
has been scaled back after objections from Internet content
providers led by  Google Inc .  The text of the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, which
would set joint rules for cracking down on the pirating of
copyrighted materials, was released today by the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office. The deal would be the first major trade
accord reached under President  Barack Obama .  The European Union, the U.S. and nine nations are making
the text of the accord public as they seek to resolve a few
remaining issues. They must each then decide whether to sign the
deal that was first proposed in 2007. The accord wouldn’t
require congressional approval.  “This work represents a significant victory for those who
care about protecting and enforcing intellectual property
rights,” U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said in a
statement.  Technology companies such as Google, operator of the
world’s most popular search engine, protested that initial U.S.
proposals would have imposed copyright protections without the
exceptions in U.S. law. The U.S. had proposed forcing
governments that signed the deal to crack down on Internet
service providers for distributing pirated movies or music. That
was among requirements dropped from the 24-page text released
today.  “The U.S. capitulated,”  Michael Geist , a law professor at
the University of Ottawa who has been following the
negotiations, said in an interview. “The U.S. has steadily
caved on issue after issue.”  Movie, Recording Industry  The movie and recording industries, the leading supporters
of the treaty, described the proposed deal as an imperfect step
forward.  “It doesn’t answer all the questions, but it provides a
blueprint,”  Neil Turkewitz , executive vice president of the
Recording Industry Association of America, said in an interview.
“The digital text is bare-bones because governments believe we
are at time when you shouldn’t get locked into a static
solution.”  The U.S. effort to export provisions of U.S. copyright law
ran afoul of a pledge by negotiators not to impose requirements
that would necessitate legal changes in any of the countries,
said Rob Calia, senior director for counterfeiting and piracy at
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  “They ran into many problems as they tried to make it very
specific,” Calia said in an interview. While the deal is a good
step forward “we’re disappointed that a more specific agreement
was not possible at this time,” he said.  Mistique Cano, a spokeswoman for Mountain View, California-
based Google, didn’t return telephone and e-mail messages
seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 