-- Sidney Weinberg, Goldman Sachs Senior Director, Dies at 87
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2010-10-06T20:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/goldman-sachs-senior-director-sidney-j-weinberg-jr-dies.html
Sidney J. Weinberg Jr. , a senior
director at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the Wall Street firm once
led by his father and his younger brother, has died. He was 87.  Weinberg, known as Jim, died on Oct. 4 of prostate cancer,
according to a memo sent to Goldman Sachs employees by Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd C. Blankfein  and President and
Chief Operating Officer  Gary D. Cohn . He “maintained his office
at the firm and his influence upon our people until his death,”
the memo said.  Although Weinberg was affiliated with Goldman Sachs for 45
years, he played a less prominent role at the firm than his late
father,  Sidney J. Weinberg , who was chief executive officer from
1939 to 1969, or his late brother,  John L. Weinberg , who ran the
company from 1976 until 1990.  Weinberg treasured privacy and argued successfully at a
1986 partners’ meeting against taking the firm public, according
to the book “Goldman Sachs: The Culture of Success” by  Lisa Endlich  (Knopf, 1999).  “Jimmy told the group that the proposal made no sense.
Goldman Sachs had a heritage, and he was on the side of
preserving it,” Endlich wrote. “He would feel uncomfortable
reading about partners in the newspapers, of having the details
of their financial situation made available for public
consumption.”  Goldman Sachs went public in 1999, later than many of its
U.S. competitors, and 11 years after Weinberg retired from a
full-time role at the company.  Joins Goldman Sachs  Sidney James Weinberg Jr. was born in Scarsdale, New York,
on March 27, 1923. He served in the Philippines as a first
lieutenant in the U.S. Army during World War II. Weinberg
received a bachelor’s degree from Princeton University and then
a master’s in business administration from Harvard University in
1949. He worked as a vice president of the textile division at
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp., now  Owens Corning Inc. , before
joining Goldman Sachs’s investment-banking department in 1965.  For a decade beginning in 1978, Weinberg ran the firm’s
investment-banking services department, a unit created by former
Goldman Sachs Co-Chairman  John C. Whitehead  to help manage
client relationships and win business. Weinberg retired from the
general partnership in 1988 when he turned 65. He remained a
limited partner until the firm went public and then became a
senior director.  Culture Carrier  “Jim was one of the most important culture carriers” at
Goldman Sachs, Whitehead said in a telephone interview. “He was
an advocate of team play, no internal ugly competition, service
to customers, putting the customers’ interests before the firm’s
interests and all of those good things that make a
partnership.”  He was also the “model” banker for winning new business
from clients, said Whitehead. “We had a lot of good ones, but I
can’t say that anyone was his equal,” he said. “He had
personality, judgment, knowledge of the products, and a good
sales ability. His clients were his friends.”  Thomas S. Murphy , the former chairman and chief executive
officer of Capital Cities/ABC Inc., was a close friend of
Weinberg since they attended Harvard Business School together.  “His whole reputation in the business world was as a
person of honesty and integrity,” said Murphy. “We had to sell
a lot of things when we bought ABC, and he did a great job. You
could really count on Jim.”  ‘Unpretentious, Congenial’  In his book on the history of Goldman Sachs, “The
Partnership” (Penguin Press, 2008), author  Charles D. Ellis 
described Weinberg as his younger brother’s “closest and most
objective confidant and adviser on policy and strategy.”  “ Jim Weinberg  was consistently unpretentious, congenial,
and insightful,” Ellis wrote. “He took subways and once, at a
fabulous Los Angeles restaurant, asked the captain, ‘Don’t you
have anything less expensive?’”  Stephen Friedman , a Goldman Sachs board member and a former
chairman of the firm, remembered working with Weinberg when
Friedman was a junior mergers and acquisitions banker.  “I’d watch Jim pace things, giving the client a chance to
think and adjust to what he was saying,” Friedman said in a
telephone interview. “He was quite good at the strategic
pause.”  Weinberg’s success with clients was “no magic potion,”
Friedman said. “He just had a great demeanor, and people would
develop confidence in him because he wasn’t pandering to them,
he would tell them what he thought.”  Identified With Clients  Robert E. Rubin , a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs who
later became U.S. Treasury secretary and chairman of Citigroup
Inc., also singled out Weinberg’s skill with customers.  “I watched Jim as he dealt with clients and I learned a
lot about how to deal with people more generally,” Rubin said
in a telephone interview. “He was very effective at relating to
what they cared about and what their issues were and then really
identifying with them and helping them solve their problems.”  For the last five years, Weinberg served on the board of
directors of the  Goldman Sachs Foundation , the company’s
philanthropic arm that was created in 1999. He was also a senior
trustee of the  Carnegie Institution  for Science in Washington, a
life trustee of the  New York-Presbyterian Hospital , and a
trustee emeritus and former chairman of the board of trustees of
 Scripps College  in Claremont, California.  Weinberg was also the founding chairman of the board of the
 Keck Graduate Institute of Applied Life Sciences  in Claremont,
California, and an honorary trustee and honorary member of the
 Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution  on Cape Cod in
Massachusetts. In 2005, he was elected a fellow of the  American
Academy of Arts & Sciences  in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Weinberg, who died at his home in Marion, Massachusetts, is
survived by his wife of 59 years, Elizabeth “Betty” Houghton
Weinberg; six children, Jay, Alan, Laurie, Betsy, Sydney and
Peter, 12 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net 
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans   eevans3@bloomberg.net .
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 