-- Google TV Box Will Cost $299.99, Including Keyboard
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-10-07T00:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/google-tv-box-to-cost-299-99-include-keyboard-logitech-says.html
Logitech International SA ’s Google TV
box, a device that lets users get websites, Internet video,
digital pictures and music on a television, will cost $299.99.  The product, called Revue, will include a keyboard that
doubles as a remote control, Logitech Chief Executive Officer
 Jerry Quindlen  said today at a briefing in San Francisco. The
Revue is available for order today and will be on retail shelves
in about three weeks, he said.  Logitech joins Sony Corp. and  Intel Corp.  in backing Google
Inc.’s effort to get more consumers to use the Internet in their
living rooms. The companies are capitalizing on growing demand
for Web-based programming and information on large screens,
competing against devices such as  Apple Inc. ’s Apple TV.  “Today is just the beginning of what we intend to do
around this platform,” Quindlen said. “There hasn’t been, up
until now, one solution for consumers to bring all this content
together in one single interface.”  The service will include video-on-demand features from
Amazon.com Inc.;  Netflix Inc. ; and Hulu, a video site partly
owned by Walt Disney Co., Google has said. The software was
adapted from the company’s Android operating system and Chrome
Internet browser to display television programming from cable
and satellite sources and video from the Web. Applications
written for existing versions of Android, used in mobile phones,
will now work on television screens.  Video Calls  Google , based in Mountain View, California, dropped $3.88
to $534.35 today in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Logitech  fell
less than 1 percent to 16.77 Swiss francs in European trading.  Logitech , based in Romanel-sur-Morges, Switzerland, also is
offering a $149.99 high-definition video camera that will work
with the Revue to provide video calls from the sofa. The company
is selling a smaller keyboard as well for $129.99.  Sony will sell a range of televisions and Blu-Ray disc
players that include the Google TV software, which links up with
Web content and lets users access pictures and music files
stored on other devices in their home networks.  Apple  unveiled a lower-priced version of its Apple TV set-
top box on Sept. 1. The $99 device offers high-definition TV
programs, which views can rent for 99 cents, and works with
Netflix’s online service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  