-- Greece's Debt, Deficit Figures for 2006-2009 to Be Revised Upward, EU Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2010-10-06T12:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/greece-s-debt-deficit-figures-for-2006-2009-to-be-revised-upward-eu-says.html
The European Union said its estimates
for Greece’s budget deficit and government debt will be revised
higher for the years 2006-2009.  Greece pledged to reduce its budget shortfall, the second
largest in the EU last year, and increase tax revenue in return
for emergency loans from the bloc and the International Monetary
Fund. The EU statistics office Eurostat, which reviewed Greek
government statistics, will publish the revisions by Oct. 22.  “After Eurostat’s latest visit, it was evident that some
areas of uncertainty remain,”  Amadeu Altafaj , spokesman for EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn , told
reporters in Brussels today. As a result, Rehn “instructed
Eurostat to reinforce its resources on the ground for the urgent
task of clarifying the Greek national accounts.”  Greece’s widening deficit and questions about the accuracy
of its economic data have undermined the credibility and
enforcement of the EU’s budget rules. In January, the European
Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, cited “severe
irregularities” in the country’s data.  Eurostat is exercising for the first time its new audit
powers, which entered into force on Aug. 19 and were granted
after the EU learned Greece had used secret financial
transactions to conceal debt.  Overtaking Ireland?  Greece’s budget deficit in 2009 will be revised to 15.1
percent of gross domestic product by EU statisticians, Greek
newspaper Kathimerini reported, without saying where it got the
information. That would push Greece’s budget gap past that of
Ireland, which had the biggest shortfall in the EU last year.  The deficit will be increased from 13.8 percent to include
losses and debt of public companies as well as liabilities
related to currency swaps, Kathimerini said. National debt will
also rise to 127 percent of GDP from 115.4 percent of GDP
previously, according to the newspaper.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou agreed in May to
austerity measures worth about 14 percent of gross domestic
product over four years in exchange for 110 billion euros ($152
billion) of emergency loans from the EU and the IMF.  The extra yield demanded by investors to hold 10-year Greek
bonds over German bunds rose after today’s announcement by the
EU, climbing 6 basis points to 770 basis points.  Greece’s economy is in its second year of a recession and
the government forecasts that it will contract 4 percent this
year and 2.6 percent next year before returning to growth in
2012. The budget deficit, which was more than four times the
EU’s 3 percent ceiling in 2009, shrank 32.3 percent in the first
eight months of the year as the government raised taxes and cut
public-sector salaries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  