-- Green Mountain, Google, Apple: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-10-06T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/green-mountain-apple-och-whirlpool-intellectual-property.html
  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc .,
the Vermont-based coffee company whose brands include  Tully’s
Coffee  and  Newman’s Own Organics , sued a rival for patent
infringement.  The company’s Keurig unit, based in Reading,  Massachusetts ,
on Oct. 1 sued Sturm Foods Inc., a Manawa, Wisconsin-based unit
of  TreeHouse Foods Inc ., Keurig alleges Sturm is violating two
U.S. patents by marketing single-serving brewing cups.  In dispute are patents 7,165,488, issued in January 2007,
and 6,606,938, issued in August 2003.  In  Europe , Nestle SA is involved in patent battles with  Sara Lee Corp . and others over single-service coffee capsules.  “Keurig has not authorized Sturm to use its Keurig mark,”
company lawyers contend in papers filed in federal court in
Wilmington,  Delaware . “Keurig has been damaged by such conduct
in an amount to be determined at trial.”  Sandy Yusen, a spokeswoman for Green Mountain’s specialty-
coffee unit, said the company “cannot comment on pending
litigation.” TreeHouse officials couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  The Keurig unit has sold more than 3 billion single-service
cartridges, the company said in its pleadings. Keurig asked for
money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs and an order
barring future infringement of the two patents.  Keurig is represented by  Karen Elizabeth Keller  of  Young
Conaway Stargatt & Taylor LLP  of Wilmington.  The patent case is Keurig Inc. v. Sturm Foods Inc., 1:10-
cv-00841-UNS, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Google Challenges Oracle Suit Over Android Smartphone System    Google Inc . said  Oracle Corp ., the world’s second-biggest
software company, is using invalid patents and vague copyright
claims to demand royalties on the Android operating system for
mobile devices.  Google, responding to a lawsuit Oracle filed in federal
court in San Francisco in August, also accused Oracle of
changing its position on whether the Java programming language
should be free and open to software developers. Google is
seeking dismissal of the copyright-infringement claim and a
ruling that the Oracle patents are either invalid or not
infringed, according to Oct. 4 court filings.  Google’s Android, used on devices made by Motorola Inc. and  HTC Corp ., has become the most popular operating system in the
U.S. among new smartphone buyers, passing  Research In Motion
Ltd .’s BlackBerry and Apple Inc.’s iPhone software, Nielsen Co.
said yesterday. Oracle claims Android violates seven patents
related to the software maker’s Java platform.  Oracle, based in Redwood City,  California , gained Java as
part of its purchase this year of Sun Microsystems Inc.
Developed by Sun in the mid-1990s, Java lets developers write
programs that work across different operating systems and on a
variety of computers. It formed a key building block of the Web
and is widely used in business applications. The software also
runs on billions of mobile devices, Sun said last year.  All of the patents allegedly infringed by Google were
issued to Sun between 1999 and 2008.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, said in its
filing that the patents are invalid and not infringed, and that
users of the Android platform have a license to any patents in
the case. It also said Oracle made general copyright-
infringement claims with nothing to back them up.  Oracle’s complaint targets Google’s Dalvik virtual machine,
software that is used to run applications in Android. Oracle is
seeking a court ruling that would ban further use of its
intellectual property, and would force the destruction of all
products that violate Java-related copyrights on the code,
documentation and specifications. It also seeks an unspecified
amount of cash compensation.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Google Inc., 3:10-cv-
03561-WHA, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  Apple Gets Patent for Mouse for Lefties and Righties    Apple Inc ., the maker of the iPad and iPhone, received a
patent for an ambidextrous mouse.  The mouse, as a computer input device, was invented in 1963
by  Douglas C. Engelbart  of the Augmentation Research Center at
the  Stanford Research Institute  in Menlo Park, California. Over
the years, innovations such as a trackball and the capacity to
work wirelessly have been added.  Cupertino, California-based Apple’s patent 7,808,479, one
of  4,772 U.S. patents issued yesterday , covers a mouse that can
determine whether a user is right- or left-handed based on the
user’s touch. The motion axes of the mouse can then be
configured based on the user’s handedness, according to the
patent.  Sensors within the mouse can also calculate the difference
between previous and current hand images and send that
information to the host computer.  Apple applied for the patent in September 2003 with
assistance from  San Francisco ’s Morrison & Foerster LLP.  For more patent news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Och-Ziff Sues  London  Firm for Impersonation, Name Use  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group, the New York-based hedge-
fund firm run by Daniel Och, is suing a London investment
adviser and its founder to block the use of the Och name.  Och-Ziff’s European unit asked a London court for an
injunction to stop  Och Capital LLP  and its founder Thomas
Ochocki from using the first portion of its name. It is also
seeking damages for trademark infringement and passing itself
off as the New York firm, which has more than $26 billion in
assets under management.  Guy Hollingworth, a lawyer for Och-Ziff, said at the start
of a two-day trial in London that Och Capital’s cooperation
“has been totally unsatisfactory and inexcusable.”  Michael Cohen, the chief executive officer of Och-Ziff
Management Europe Ltd., testified about the importance of Europe
to the firm’s business, saying Och-Ziff has 50 percent of its
assets under management outside of the U.S. and 40 percent of
its investors in Europe. It has about 65 employees in the U.K.
and manages $1.5 billion in assets for people there, Cohen said.  A lawyer for Och Capital, Alistair Wilson, said the London-
based firm pronounces its name as initials, and offered to Och-
Ziff to clarify that late last year.  “Our client said they were willing to change to O.C.H. to
make it clear that it was pronounced O-C-H,” Wilson said at the
first day of the trial. “That was rejected.”  Och Capital is named after the first three letters of its
founder’s name, Wilson said. At a previous job as a trader,
Ochocki became known by the letters O-C-H, Wilson said, and is
still referred to as that because his name is hard to pronounce.  There was “no intention to cause any confusion at all”
with Och-Ziff, Wilson said. He apologized to Judge Richard
Arnold for initially failing to comply with court orders and
said the firm is now cooperating.  Och-Ziff was started in 1994 by former  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc . trader Och, 49, and Ziff Brothers Investments LLC with
money from the Ziff media empire. Och Capital has been operating
in the U.K. since April last year, according to the Financial
Services Authority’s  register .  The case is Och-Ziff Management Europe v. Och Capital LLP,
case no. 112/10, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division
(London).  Whirlpool Gets  Australia  to Refuse ‘KitchenMaid’ Trademark    Whirlpool Corp ., the Michigan-based appliance maker,
persuaded Australia’s Trade Marks Office to block an application
from a Chinese company.  Huilong Electrical Appliances Co.  of Shenzhen,  China , filed
an application in March 2009 to register “KitchenMaid” as an
Australian trademark for kitchen and personal-care electrical
appliances.  Whirlpool objected, claiming this would infringe its
KitchenAid mark and confuse the public. The Benton Harbor,
Michigan-based appliance maker acquired the mark from  Hobart
Corp.  in 1986.  The KitchenAid marks, originally used for countertop
mixers, are now used for a  variety of appliances , including
refrigerators, dishwashers, ovens, cooktops and trash
compactors, in addition to the mixers.  An Australian trademarks examiner made reference to
pronunciations used in his country when he rejected the Chinese
company’s application. He said there is a “real likelihood that
Australians would slur the operative part” of the two
trademarks, and “a real and tangible danger of confusion
exists” between the marks.  He also ordered Huilong to pay the costs of the
proceedings.  The case is  Whirlpool Properties Inc. v. Huilong Electrical
Appliances Pty Ltd. (2010) ATMO 79.  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  Dykema Hires Automotive, Biotech Patent Specialists  Dykema Gossett PLLC  expanded its intellectual-property
practice with the addition of two lawyers, the Detroit-based
firm said in a  statement .  The two new hires are Anna M. Shih and Teresa A. Lavenue.  Shih  joined from  Eaton Corp ., where she was lead IP counsel
for the Cleveland-based manufacturing company’s automotive
division. She does patent-acquisition and licensing work and has
practiced at  Washington ’s Cushman, Darby & Cushman.  Shih has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from Kettering University and a law degree from the University
of Michigan.  Lavenue , who joins  from Baker Donelson Bearman Caldwell &
Berkowitz PC  of Memphis, Tennessee, has handled more than 500
biotech-related patent applications.  Before she was a lawyer, Lavenue spent five years doing
research at Vanderbilt and Georgetown universities. After she
graduated from law school, she served as a judicial clerk for
Judge Glenn Archer of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit, the Washington-based court that handles patent appeals.  She has an undergraduate degree from Vanderbilt and a law
degree from Washington College of Law.  Virtual Law Partners Expands IP Practice With Two New Hires [bn:URL= http://www.virtuallawpartners.com/ ]   Virtual Law Partners LLP [] hired two new IP lawyers, James G.
Markey and Charlie Y. Oh, according to a  statement  from the Palo
Alto, California-based firm.  Markey , who joined from  Duane Morris LLP , also practiced at
Jones Day and the now-defunct IP specialty firm Pennie &
Edmonds.  He does litigation and patent and trademark counseling and
acquisition work for clients in the pharmaceutical, health-care,
industrial gases and chemicals, and apparel industries. Before
he was a lawyer, he worked as a design engineer for a company
that manufactured heat transfer equipment for the chemical
process and energy industries.  Markey has an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering
from Manhattan College and a law degree from St. John’s
University.  Oh , who joins from Philadelphia’s Dechert LLP, does patent
counseling for clients in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and
life sciences industries. Before he was a lawyer, he did post-
doctoral research in neurobiology, genetics, molecular biology
and biochemistry at the University of California at Berkeley,
the California Institute of Technology and the University of
California at San Francisco.  He also gas practiced at San Francisco’s Flehr, Hohback,
Test, Albritton & Herbert LLP, which became part of Dorsey &
Whitney LLP in 2002  Oh has an undergraduate degree in biochemistry from the
University of California at Los Angeles and a doctorate in
biochemistry from Johns Hopkins University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 