-- Greggs Third-Quarter Revenue Rises as Bakery Chain Sells More Bacon Rolls
-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2010-10-06T08:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/greggs-third-quarter-revenue-rises-as-bakery-chain-sells-more-bacon-rolls.html
Greggs Plc , the U.K.’s biggest bakery
chain, said third-quarter sales increased as it sold more
breakfast items such as bacon rolls.  Total  sales  in the 13 weeks to Oct. 2 rose 2.1 percent,
while sales at stores open at least a year increased 0.2
percent, the Newcastle, England-based company said in a
statement today.  Greggs has added breakfast items to boost sales in what was
traditionally a quieter period. Bacon rolls are now the best-
selling sandwich line, with almost 7 million sold since their
introduction in February, Chief Executive Officer  Ken McMeikan 
said. The bakery chain plans to introduce items such as
croissants, pain au chocolat and porridge.  “Our breakfast range has been really popular and we are
building on this,” McMeikan said in a conference call with
reporters. “Times are going to continue to be tough, our
customers will look for value for money.”  Greggs is expanding outside its traditional city-center
sites into locations such as industrial estates, airports and
rail stations. The company added 32 stores this year, giving it
a total of 1,451, and said it sees total net shops for the year
at the upper end of a previously indicated range of 50 to 60.  There are still plans to open more than 70 shops next year,
McMeikan said.  Greggs  shares fell 0.5 percent to 472.5 pence at 9:06 a.m.
in London trading, giving the company a market value of 485.3
million pounds ($771.3 million).  Price Increases  Greggs has raised prices for bread and some savoury items
because of higher flour prices driven by the cost of wheat,
McMeikan said.  “Our customers have seen some small price increases for
bread and some savouries, this will stay through quarter four,”
he said, “We expect the market to be tough in 2011 like this
year, but we will continue to grow.”  The price of wheat more than doubled between June and
August as drought slashed the Russian harvest. Greggs has
purchased flour for the rest of the year and McMeikan said its
requirements were covered until the “middle of next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Lawrence  in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  