-- Griffin Coal Expects Final Bids Within a Month, Wins Bankruptcy Extension
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-10-06T04:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/griffin-coal-expects-final-bids-next-month-wins-bankruptcy-extension.html
Griffin Coal Mining Co. , a failed
Australian company with debts of at least A$700 million ($680
million), won an extension for its bankruptcy protection because
it expects to get final bids by Nov. 5, a judge said.  Griffin Coal’s request to extend bankruptcy protection to
Feb. 25 was granted, and a scheduled meeting of creditors was
put off to allow the completion of the sale, according to a
judgment released yesterday by Australia Federal Court Judge
Walter McKerracher.  “Most (if not all) mining equipment used by Griffin Coal
is leased,” McKerracher wrote in explaining his reasons for the
judgment. The owners of the leased property could repossess the
equipment if the protection wasn’t extended, which “would have
a substantial impact on the operations,” he wrote.  Griffin Coal, Griffin Energy and other units of the
Griffin Group, founded by businessman Rick Stowe, sought
bankruptcy protection Jan. 3. Indian and Chinese companies were
among those that expressed interest in Perth-based Griffin Coal,
according to Brian McMaster, a partner at KordaMentha, an
administrator.  The creditors meeting for Griffin Coal was originally
scheduled to be held by Sept. 28. The company valued its mining
leases at about A$728.5 million as of June 2009, Nomura Holdings
Inc. analysts said in January.  Final Bids  Griffin Coal hired  UBS AG  and Macquarie Capital Advisers, a
unit of  Macquarie Group Ltd.,  to advise on the sale process.
They said the final bids, with executable transaction documents,
will be received by Nov. 5, according to the judgment.  “It will be at this stage that it will become appropriate
for the final successful bid to be put to the companies’
creditors,” McKerracher wrote.  The company sells about 90 percent of its electrical output
to domestic power stations, constraining its ability to benefit
from the almost tripling of export contract prices since 2003 on
demand from Asian utilities.  The group’s energy unit assets include the Bluewaters Power
Station in Collie, the same region from where it extracts more
than 3 million tons of coal a year.  The case is In the Matter of the Griffin Coal Mining Co.
ACN 008 667 285. Federal Court of Australia (Perth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net . 