-- IBM’s Palmisano Says New Technology Can Save U.S. $1 Trillion
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-10-06T15:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ibm-s-palmisano-says-new-technology-can-save-u-s-1-trillion.html
A group of technology company
executives led by IBM Corp. chairman  Samuel J. Palmisano  is
releasing a report saying the federal government could save $1
trillion by 2020 through more efficient use of computers and
information systems.  The executives, who include  Michael Dell , chairman and
chief executive of Dell Inc., say in the report they plan to
present to government officials that better use of existing
technology would save money by consolidating data centers and
networks, cutting duplication and providing better tracking of
fraud and waste.  “Our report contains straightforward, proven ways to pare
back $1 trillion from the deficit while increasing productivity
and enabling sustainable competitiveness,” Dell said in a
statement issued by  Technology CEO Council , a Washington-based
advocacy group.  The government has fallen behind private industry in
adopting new systems for information processing, administration
officials said earlier this year. President  Barack Obama  in
April created an advisory board of business executives to
recommend ways to streamline government operations using
technology.  Then-budget director  Peter Orszag  said in June that closing
the “IT gap” will be a key step in finding the savings needed
to shrink the deficit, which is forecast by the administration
to hit a record $1.47 trillion in the 2010 fiscal year.  Washington Meetings  Palmisano will be talking with administration officials
today, joined by  Steven R. Appleton , chairman and chief
executive of Micron Technology Inc.,  Greg Brown , president and
co-chief executive of Motorola Inc.,  Paul Otellini , president
and chief executive of Intel Corp.,  Michael Splinter , president
and chief executive of Applied Materials Inc. and  Joseph Tucci ,
chairman, president and chief executive of EMC Corp., according
to Tom Galvin, a spokesman for the council.  The report, titled “One Trillion Reasons,” says the
savings can be achieved while improving government services and
enhancing job growth. For example, it says as much as 30 percent
of the $76 billion spent to support and manage information
technology systems could be trimmed through consolidation of
systems and standardizing applications. Greater use of digital
records management would save $50 billion over 10 years,
according to the council’s statement.  A copy of the report was given to the 18-member panel
created by Obama to recommend ways of cutting the deficit,
Galvin said.  “We’re serious about helping to provide solutions for the
mounting debt crisis,” Dell said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  