-- Michelin Disses Del Posto; Zagat Keeps Per Se on Top
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2010-10-06T14:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/michelin-disses-batali-s-del-posto-zagat-keeps-bernardin-per-se-on-top.html
Mario Batali  and  Joe Bastianich’s  Del
Posto failed to win back its second Michelin star after removing
a more affordably priced, casual section of the restaurant and
instituting a $500 per person wine-paired tasting menu. Oops.  The “ Michelin Guide  New York City 2011”, whose results
were released today, stripped the most expensive spot in the
Batali-Bastianich empire of its second star last year. Del Posto
also offers $125, $95 and a la carte menus.  The restaurant won a four-star rating from the New York
Times last week, leading to sold-out status ever since. The
discrepancy may reveal how much influence the Michelin stars
have on local restaurant bookings.  “The discrepancy is not a surprise for a lot of people who
know about food, obviously,” said Jean-Luc Naret, director of
the Michelin Guides in a telephone interview this morning.  Adour  Alain Ducasse  also failed to win back its second star
after the restaurant installed Didier Elena, once the chef at
Ducasse’s failed Essex House restaurant.  Gordon Ramsay  at the
London, no longer owned by the financially beleaguered chef,
kept its second star.  Michael White’s Marea, a major hit with diners and critics,
won a second star.  Kings County upped its laurels with the chef’s table at
Brooklyn Fare, the borough’s priciest restaurant. The Boerum
Hill venue regularly books up a month in advance and charges
$135 per person for 20 courses. It seats only 18 diners per
night.  Naret said Michelin made six visits to Brooklyn Fare and
that his recent dinner there was one of his “top three or four
meals of the year.”  Two Japanese restaurants, Kajitsu, a vegetarian spot, and
Soto, known for its intricate sea urchin preparations, were also
honored with a second star.  New entrants in the one-star category are Aldea, The
Breslin, Dovetail, Laut, A Voce at the Time Warner Center and
Danny Brown Wine Bar & Kitchen in Queens.  Zagat!  The other red guide, the “Zagat 2011 New York City
Restaurants” survey, also released its results today, giving
top food honors to Le Bernardin and best service to Per Se, both
for the second year running.  Danny Meyer’s  Gramercy Tavern won
most popular venue for the sixth time in a decade, while his
Maialino, snubbed by Michelin, was voted top newcomer.  While Michelin uses anonymous, professional inspectors to
rate its restaurants, Zagat tallies the votes of 40,569 everyday
diners to assign ratings. Sub-$20 restaurants occupied three of
the four top newcomer slots, including Luke’s Lobster, a shack
that sells $14 lobster rolls; Mile End, a Montreal-style Jewish
deli in Brooklyn and Cascabel, a taqueria on Manhattan’s Upper
East Side.  “People are being more careful about going out and when
they do go out they’re spending less,” said Tim Zagat, founder
of the survey, who added that 2010 was “probably the slowest
year for fine dining in my memory.”  More Michelin  Maialino wasn’t the only Zagat-lauded restaurant to be
snubbed by the Michelin star system. The extraordinarily popular
Torrisi Italian Specialties, which serves a set menu for $50 and
typically requires a three-hour wait, was denied a star, along
with  David Chang’s  Ma Peche, which serves $510-$850 beef
dinners.  Tom Colicchio , one of the city’s most popular American
cooks and host of the “Top Chef” television show, failed to
win a star for his new Colicchio & Sons restaurant.  All five of Michelin’s three-star recipients from previous
years kept their honors; they are Per Se, Le Bernardin, Jean
Georges, Masa and Daniel. Three stars means “Exceptional
cuisine, worth a special journey;” two, “Excellent cooking,
worth a detour;” one, “Very good cooking in its category.”  ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 