-- ICICI Bank Leads Record Month for International Bond Sales: India Credit
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-10-07T13:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/icici-bank-leads-record-month-for-international-bond-sales-india-credit.html
ICICI Bank Ltd. ’s plan to sell as
much as $1 billion of debt has put local companies on course to
raise a record amount of international bonds this month from
investors seeking to profit from the nation’s expanding economy.  The second-largest lender in India hired three banks to
help it sell the dollar-denominated notes, three people familiar
with the matter said Oct. 5. ICICI’s 5.75 percent note due
January 2012 yields 217 basis points more than Treasuries, down
from 333, or 3.33 percentage points, at the start of the year,
according to prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.  ICICI and Reliance Industries Ltd. are tapping demand for
assets as near-zero interest rates in Japan and the U.S. drive
investors to emerging markets. Credit-default swaps on Mumbai-
based ICICI’s debt fell to 205 basis points today, the lowest
since May, after ballooning to an all-time high of 1,794 on Oct.
27, 2008, as savers pulled money from the bank amid the global
financial crisis.  “The search for yield is on,” Paul Adkins, the Asia-
Pacific managing director for Highland Capital Management LP,
said in a telephone interview from Singapore. “ICICI shouldn’t
have been pressured the way it was two years ago. Its
fundamentals are sound and India’s economy is growing.”  IMF Raises Forecast  India’s growth may be faster than previously forecast,
helped by consumer demand, the International Monetary Fund said
yesterday. The country’s economy will expand 9.7 percent in 2010,
the Washington-based lender said in its World Economic Outlook,
more than the 9.4 percent estimated in July. The IMF kept its
2011 prediction for India’s growth at 8.4 percent.  The average yield for Asian financial bonds is 4.35 percent,
compared with 3.67 percent for the same type of debt globally,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  Overseas  investors  have poured $10 billion into India’s
corporate and government debt this year, more than the combined
inflows during the previous eight years, data from the exchange
board show. Holdings touched an all-time high of $17.8 billion
on Sept. 27. Inflows accelerated as the central bank raised
 borrowing costs  five times this year, the most in Asia, boosting
yields on local assets.  Rising Rupee  Faster inflows helped the rupee surge 5.8 percent against
the dollar in the past month to 44.2750 per dollar, the best
performance among Asia’s 10-most traded currencies.  “There are very few places in the world at the moment
where you can get high coupons,” said Adkins, who helps oversee
Highland Capital’s $24 billion under management globally. “What
Japan and the U.S. are doing in terms of monetary policy is
forcing life insurance companies and pension funds to incur
additional risk.”  Sales of international bonds by Indian borrowers were $2.45
billion in January 2007, the most since Bloomberg began
collating data in 1999, and hit $2 billion in September that
year. This month may top that with the ICICI sale and as
 Reliance Industries , India’s biggest company by market value, is
seeking at least $1 billion via the sale of 10- and 30-year
dollar notes, people familiar with the matter said earlier this
month.  India has had 11 international issues this year, compared
with 69 in South Korea, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Name-Specific’  “At the end of the day it’s name-specific and about credit
quality,” said  Tan Wah Yong , a money manager at Aberdeen Asset
Management Asia Ltd. in Singapore. “People won’t buy Indian
names just for the sake of it.”  Aberdeen will put in orders to purchase the securities
being sold by ICICI and Reliance, “but only at the right
price,” she said.  The highest coupon payable on a dollar-denominated bond
sold by an Indian company this year is the 7 percent on Core
Projects & Technologies Ltd.’s $75 million of convertible notes
due May 2015, Bloomberg data show. The debt of Mumbai-based Core
Projects, an information technology provider that sold dollar
bonds for the first time in 2006, is rated “LA” by local risk
assessor ICRA Ltd., indicating “adequate safety.”  Axis Bank Ltd.’s $350 million of notes sold in March and
due September 2015 pay the highest coupon of any Indian bank
bond this year at 5.25 percent, Bloomberg data show. The bonds
are rated Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB-, one step
lower and the lowest investment grade, by Standard & Poor’s.  Default Swaps  Five of the six-riskiest banks in Asia’s credit-default
swaps market are based in India, with ICICI topping the list,
according to data provider CMA. Only Macquarie Bank Ltd. of
Australia has debt swaps that are more expensive, at 272.2 basis
points, compared with 136 points for Bank of China.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting $10
million of debt from default for five years is equivalent to
$1,000 a year. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  ICICI has no “immediate” plan to issue bonds, spokesman
 Charudatta Deshpande  said in an e-mailed response to questions.
The bank “has an ongoing fund raising program,” he said.  India’s 10-year government bond yield of 7.93 percent is
the highest among major economies except Brazil, where similar-
maturity notes pay 11.88 percent. Comparable securities offer
7.69 percent in Russia and 3.32 percent in China and 2.40
percent in the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Yields  The  extra yield  that a top-rated Indian company must pay to
borrow rupees for five years in relation to the government’s
cost of selling similar-maturity notes has shrunk to 63.7 basis
points from 87 at the end of 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show, signaling increased demand for company debt.  “There haven’t been as many Indian issuers as Chinese or
Korean” companies, said Tan, who helps manages $1.5 billion of
the $5.5 billion Aberdeen has in fixed-income and currency
assets in Asia-Pacific. “Reliance has existing bonds but
they’re not a regular in the Asian market whereas ICICI, they
are a very frequent issuer,” Tan said. “People are familiar
with their name.”  Ten-year government bonds in India yield 764 basis points
more than the three-month London interbank offered  rate , a
measure of funding costs for global investors that is currently
at 0.29 percent. The spread widened to a record 776 on Aug. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  