-- Mideast, North Africa Economies to Expand 5.1% in 2011 on Oil, IMF Says
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-10-06T12:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/mideast-north-africa-economies-to-expand-5-1-in-2011-on-oil-imf-says.html
The International Monetary Fund said
economic growth in the Middle East and North Africa region may
accelerate to 5.1 percent next year as oil prices rise.  Growth is forecast at 4.1 percent this year, more than
double the 2009 pace, the Washington-based lender said in its
World Economic Outlook. It predicted a “robust” expansion in
the region’s oil-importing economies, which suffered limited
damage from the global financial slump, and “modest” rises in
crude prices that will boost exporters. Saudi Arabia’s economy,
the region’s biggest, is forecast to grow 4.5 percent next year.  “The recent economic recovery in the MENA region is
largely underpinned by the rebound in oil prices from their
trough in 2009,” the IMF said in the report published today.
“The region has largely been bypassed by the recent surge in
capital flows to emerging markets, with the notable exception of
Egypt and Lebanon.”  Economies in the Middle East and North Africa are
recovering after the worst financial crisis since the 1930s led
to a clampdown on credit and crippled real-estate markets around
the world. Crude, which tumbled to a four-year low of $32.40 a
barrel in December 2008, traded at more than $83 a barrel today.
Six of the world’s top 10 oil producers are in the Middle East
and North Africa, according to the  CIA World Factbook .  Challenges to the region include reviving credit growth and
easing concerns over the “health of the corporate sector”
following defaults in Gulf countries, the IMF said.  “Bank flows to the region are also unlikely to rebound
quickly because of the ongoing restructuring and regulatory
changes in advanced economies,” it said.  State-owned Dubai World’s announcement last year that it
planned to restructure debts, following defaults by two Saudi
Arabian companies, forced banks to curtail lending and disrupted
bond sales across the Middle East.  The IMF recommended job-creating measures in a region that
has a rapidly growing population, and said countries need to
attract foreign direct investment and exploit the potential for
intra-regional trade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 