-- IMF Sees Risk in `Mild Overvaluation' of Australian Housing Market Gains
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-06T12:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/imf-sees-risk-in-mild-overvaluation-of-australian-housing-market-gains.html
The International Monetary Fund
cautioned that housing in Australia may be overvalued and a
reversal in  prices  could hurt consumers in one of the few
advanced economies to skirt last year’s global recession.  “Given assessed mild overvaluation, a potential correction
in house” prices “could hit household wealth and  consumer
confidence ,” the Washington-based IMF said today in its World
Economic Outlook. Housing in many other parts of the world
remains a “drag on growth” and a risk to lenders, the fund
said.  The IMF’s assessment came after Fitch Ratings said last
week it will stress-test Australia’s mortgage market. House
prices in eight major cities rose by 18.4 percent in the year to
June, prompting some analysts to warn of a bubble.  The Reserve Bank of Australia said last week that the local
property market shows “welcome signs” of cooling. The central
bank’s six quarter-percentage-point interest rate increases in
the past year added about A$3,600 ($3,500) a year to repayments
on an average A$300,000 mortgage. The RBA kept borrowing  costs 
unchanged at its meeting two days ago.  Speaking yesterday in Brisbane,  Luci Ellis , the RBA’s head
of financial stability, said Australian home prices in the past
six or seven years have tracked household incomes “relatively
well” and said signs don’t point to an overheated market.  Ellis cited a recent increase in returns on rental
properties as a sign investors aren’t just focused on making
money solely from the value of a property.  “Buying an asset because you expect the price to rise in
the future, well, that is actually the academic definition of a
bubble. So that would be undesirable and seen as a problem,”
Ellis said. “I should mention that rental yields actually have
come up a bit lately. We see the leveling off in  housing prices 
as being desirable.”  Jeremy Grantham , chief investment strategist at Boston-
based Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co. and  Gerard Minack , chief
strategist for global developed markets at Morgan Stanley’s
Australian unit, are among those warning of an Australian
housing bubble, with homes about 40 percent overvalued.  Stress Testing  Fitch said last week it will test the impact on mortgage
bonds, banks and insurers should mortgage defaults rise and
house prices drop, and release results in the fourth quarter of
the year.  “While a sharp correction in housing prices is not the
agency’s base case, the fact remains that Australian house
prices and household indebtedness remain significantly above the
long-term trend,” Fitch said Sept. 29. “Investors are keen to
understand the implications for ratings should such a sharp
correction occur.”  Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation’s biggest
mortgage lender, released a presentation last month saying such
concerns are driven by a “superficial or incomplete analysis”
of the nation’s property market.  The IMF, in today’s report, predicted the Australian
economy will expand 3.5 percent next year after 3 percent growth
this year. The country’s unemployment rate next year will likely
average 5.1 percent, almost half of the euro-area level forecast
to be 10 percent, the fund said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  