-- IMF Says China, Asia Should Allow Stronger, Flexible Currencies
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-10-06T12:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/imf-says-china-asian-countries-should-allow-stronger-flexible-currencies.html
Asia’s economies including China
should allow stronger and more flexible currencies to boost
domestic demand and deter speculative capital inflows, the
International Monetary Fund said.  “Looking beyond the crisis, Asia’s medium-term prospects
depend on how successfully it is able to rebalance the drivers
of growth, with greater reliance on domestic sources compared
with external demand,” the Washington-based fund said in its
semiannual World Economic Outlook report yesterday.  China and its neighbors in the region will need to adopt
“appropriate appreciation” of their currencies to bolster
incomes and purchasing power, the IMF said. Asia also needs to
remove impediments to local investment and boost productivity in
the services industry, it said.  Policy makers from Brazil to South Korea have taken steps
to cool gains in their currencies as investors pour money into
emerging and Asian economies, which are outperforming developed
nations like the U.S., Japan and those in Europe. While China
loosened a two-year peg of 6.83 per dollar in June, it has
capped the yuan’s gains at about 2 percent since then.  China’s moves to boost the yuan have been “not exactly
what we would have hoped ourselves,” European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said this week. The U.S. House of
Representatives passed a measure on Sept. 29 that would let
American companies seek compensation for imports from countries
with misaligned exchange rates.  A stronger Chinese currency could prompt others in Asia to
follow, facilitating “the needed shift toward domestic sources
of growth,” the IMF said.  Capital Inflows  Asia faces policy challenges as capital flows to the region
increase, raising the risk of inflation, asset price bubbles and
financial sector instability, the fund said. It estimates that
capital inflows to emerging Asia in the past 12 months more than
quadrupled from 2008 levels.  A more flexible currency, especially in countries with
excessive external surpluses, could increase the “perception of
exchange-rate risk and discourage speculative capital inflows,”
the IMF said. “Where large current-account imbalances may
reflect an undervalued exchange rate, currency appreciation is
the best response to capital inflows.”  The region should coordinate its response to capital
inflows, the IMF said.  Overheating Market  In China, the real-estate market may experience
“overheating,” the IMF said.  Home prices  in China rose 9.3
percent in August from a year earlier, even after Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government implemented measures to cool the property
market since April.  The world’s fastest-growing major  economy  may expand 10.5
percent this year and 9.6 percent in 2011, the IMF forecasts. A
“greater-than-anticipated slowdown” in the nation could hurt
the global recovery, the IMF said. Growth was 10.3 percent in
the second quarter, easing from an 11.9 percent pace in the
three months through March.  China’s expansion has served as a “linchpin” for global
trade, benefiting commodity exporters including Australia and
Indonesia, and economies that sell capital goods, like Germany
and Japan, the IMF said. Still, “China will provide only a
partial offset to the weaker demand from advanced economies,”
as its domestic consumption isn’t big enough, the lender said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  