-- IMF Cuts U.S. Growth Estimates on Weak Consumer Spending
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-10-06T12:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/imf-cuts-u-s-growth-estimates-as-consumer-spending-languishes.html
The International Monetary Fund
lowered its forecast for U.S. growth this year and 2011,
predicting a “slow” rebound restrained by a lack of consumer
spending.  The world’s largest economy will grow 2.6 percent this
year, down from the 3.3 percent projected in July, the IMF said
today in its World Economic Outlook report. Growth will slow to
2.3 percent in 2011, compared with a previous  estimate  of 2.9
percent, according to the Washington-based lender, which rescued
economies from Iceland to Pakistan during the financial crisis.  “The most likely prospect for the U.S. economy is for a
continued but slow recovery, with growth far weaker than in
previous recoveries,” the IMF said in the report. “Much of the
weakness of this recovery is due to sluggish personal
consumption.”  Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the U.S. economy, will be hampered by unemployment, a desire to
save more, tight credit and the deterioration in household
wealth following the plunge in  home prices , according to the
report. In contrast, the report said, business spending on
equipment and software has “rebounded strongly.”  “In the near term, fixed investment is likely to be the
principal driver of domestic demand as inventory accumulation
slows,” the IMF said. Business investment rose at a 25 percent
 pace  in April through June, the most since 1983, according to
the U.S. Commerce Department.  More Unemployment  The  jobless rate  in the U.S. will average 9.7 percent this
year and 9.6 percent in 2011, the IMF said. In April, the fund
estimated unemployment would average 8.3 percent next year. The
rate was 9.6 percent in August, according to Labor Department
data.  The IMF reiterated policy recommendations from its previous
report, urging steps to rein in an expanding budget deficit that
risks pushing up global borrowing costs. “Market nervousness
about the fiscal position of the United States could cause an
international increase in interest rates,” the fund said. The
IMF also said “the groundwork for fiscal consolidation must
begin in 2011.”  One approach to reducing government expenditures is to
reform entitlement spending because that would not have an
immediate impact on demand, the IMF said without mentioning
specific programs.  The fund also said real estate markets in the U.S. remain
“fragile” and inflation will remain low, with consumer prices
climbing 1.4 percent this year and 1 percent in 2011.  The IMF also said it supported the Federal Reserve’s
decision to reinvest proceeds from maturing mortgage holdings
into government debt. Should downside risks materialize, a
resumption of large-scale asset purchases may be one of the
tools policy makers should consider, the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  