-- IMF Says Canada `Able' to Provide Fiscal Answer If Growth Slows Further
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-10-06T12:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/imf-says-canada-able-to-provide-fiscal-answer-if-growth-slows-further.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  has the fiscal capacity for another round of stimulus if
economic growth slows more than expected, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in its World Economic Outlook report.  “Should conditions worsen unexpectedly, fiscal policy
would be able to respond,” according to report. The IMF said
Canada’s deficit will be 2.9 percent of gross domestic product
in 2011 and its net public debt will be “hovering around” 33.5
percent of GDP.  Weakness in the global economy has led economists to cut
their forecasts for Canadian growth and prompted opposition
lawmakers to ramp up calls for the government to implement
additional stimulus measures. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has
said the government will end the current stimulus package in
March as planned, and will then focus on reducing its deficit.  Canada spent about 4 percent of gross domestic product on
stimulus measures in 2009 and 2010, according to government
 figures .  The biggest risks to the Canadian economy are “external”
and related to a possible drop in commodity prices or slower
growth in the U.S., which buys about three-quarters of its
exports, the IMF also said.  Canada’s  economy  will grow 3.1 percent this year, compared
with a July projection of 3.6 percent, and expand 2.7 percent
next year, compared with 2.8 percent in the last forecast, the
IMF said. The  unemployment rate  will fall to 7.5 percent next
year, the report said, compared with the current 8.1 percent.  “The Canadian economy has been relatively buoyant,” the
IMF report said. “However, recent data indicate a moderation in
growth, which nonetheless seems to remain above potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 