-- IMF Says Public Debt, Fragile Banks Pose Risks to Growth
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-10-06T14:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/imf-says-public-debt-fragile-banks-pose-risks-to-sustained-world-recovery.html
High unemployment, public debt and
fragile banking systems pose risks to global prosperity, the
International Monetary Fund said, urging policy makers to take
bolder steps to assure a sustained recovery.  The world economy will expand 4.2 percent next year, the
Washington-based IMF said in a report, down from its forecast of
4.3 percent three months ago. The fund projects growth of 4.8
percent this year, up from 4.6 percent.  Many advanced nations such as the U.S. have yet to adopt
policies that will reduce their reliance on government  spending 
and strengthen household demand and exports, the IMF said. At
the same time, developing nations such as China are keeping
their currencies weak and remain overly dependent on overseas
sales to spur growth.  “The result is a recovery that is neither strong nor
balanced and runs the risk of not being sustained,” chief
economist  Olivier Blanchard  wrote in an introduction to the
IMF’s World Economic Outlook. “If growth stops in advanced
economies, emerging-market economies will have a hard time
decoupling,” he said. Global coordination “may be even more
important today than at the peak of the crisis.”  Nations such as China and  Brazil  are powering the return to
growth, widening a gap with advanced economies from Europe to
the U.S. that are struggling to revive domestic demand, the IMF
said. Developing nations will grow 6.4 percent next year,
unchanged from the previous forecast, while advanced economies
will expand 2.2 percent, down from an earlier 2.4 percent
forecast, the IMF said.  Exchange Rates  The fund urged emerging economies to allow greater
exchange-rate flexibility, while their developed counterparts
should reduce deficits, step up financial repair and keep
accommodative monetary policies in place.  Such steps are part of two “rebalancing acts” needed to
assure a sustained recovery, the IMF said. One entails a shift
from public stimulus to private demand in developed countries.
The second involves an external shift, with countries such as
the U.S. relying more on exports, while developing nations turn
to domestic sources of growth.  “Many emerging-market economies continue to run large
current-account surpluses and to respond to capital inflows
primarily through reserve accumulation rather than exchange-rate
appreciation,” Blanchard wrote. “International  reserves  are
higher than they have ever been and continue to increase.”  Group of 20  Blanchard, speaking at a press conference today, said
exchange-rate adjustment “is becoming a more and more
important” issue for Group of 20 countries to discuss as part
of efforts to achieve a more balanced growth.  “I’m optimistic that the G-20 can actually work out a
solution,” he said in Washington. “We’re just at the beginning
of the process.”  Japan last month sold the yen for the first time in six
years to spur exports and growth, joining countries across Asia
and Latin America that have tempered gains in their currencies
against the dollar. Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
warned Sept. 27 of a “currency war” and said that his
government will buy all “excess dollars” in the market to curb
the real’s appreciation.  Both the euro and the yen are “broadly in line with
medium-term fundamentals,” the IMF said, while the dollar is
“on the strong side.”  China’s Yuan  “With a few exceptions,” emerging Asian currencies,
including China’s yuan, “appreciated modestly in real effective
terms,” with many remaining “undervalued relative to medium-
term fundamentals,” IMF economists said.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  called on major
emerging-market nations to move more quickly to adopt flexible
currency policies.  “It is very important to see more progress by the major
emerging economies to more flexible, market-oriented exchange
rate systems,” Geithner said today in a speech in Washington.  Geithner said he sees a “damaging dynamic” as a growing
number of nations counters pressure on their currencies to
appreciate. He said the collective impact of such actions risks
causing either inflation or asset bubbles in emerging economies
or depressing consumption growth.  Geithner didn’t mention any specific countries in his
comments today. Last month, he said the pace of the yuan
appreciation has been “too slow.”  The IMF cut the 2011 growth forecast for every Group of
Seven industrial nation except Germany and France. It kept its
forecast for France next year unchanged at 1.6 percent and
raised Germany’s to 2 percent from 1.6 percent.  The U.S. economy is forecast to grow 2.6 percent this year,
down from an earlier forecast of 3.3 percent. Next year, the
world’s largest economy will grow 2.3 percent instead of 2.9
percent.  Japan’s gross domestic product will increase 2.8 percent in
2010, more than the 2.4 percent forecast in July, before slowing
to 1.5 percent next year, the fund said.  For the euro area, the IMF raised its forecast for 2010 to
1.7 percent from 1 percent and also increased its 2011 outlook
0.2 percentage point to 1.5 percent.  Risks to financial stability increased over the past six
months because of the European debt crisis that started in
Greece, even though market conditions have eased in the past few
months, the IMF said.  It warned that without “strong” and “credible” fiscal
tightening plans over the next few years, debt markets will
continue to threaten the recovery.  Aid to Greece  The IMF, which over the past 18 months has shored up
economies from Greece to Ukraine, also warned that housing will
remain a “drag on growth” in many parts of the world as well
as a risk to lenders.  “Sluggish” growth in most advanced economies means that
unemployment will stay high, which “poses major social
challenges” and will contribute to low inflation.  Monetary policy “wherever private demand is weak” should
continue being “accommodative,” Blanchard wrote, while
cautioning that “not much more can be done, and one should not
expect too much from further quantitative or credit easing.”  Among major emerging markets, the fastest growth will be in
China, which this year overtook Japan as the world’s second-
largest economy.  China will expand 10.5 percent in 2010 and 9.6 percent next
year. India’s growth will slow to 8.4 percent from 9.7 percent,
and Brazil’s will cool to 4.1 percent from 7.5 percent.  Mexico’s 2010 forecast was raised the most, to 5 percent
this year, from a 4.5 percent. Next year, it will expand 3.9
percent, the fund said.  Inflation in emerging economies should reach about 5
percent next year, the IMF estimated.  “Central banks in emerging and developing economies must
be alert to second-round effects on wages from higher food
prices or upside surprises to energy prices,” it said.  Still, while demand should continue to support commodity
prices, the IMF expects price pressures to remain “moderate”
and to “be balanced by other forces” such as moderating growth
in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  