-- IMF Says Japanese Banks' Bond Holdings Risk Financial Stability
-- B y   L i l y   N o n o m i y a
-- 2010-10-06T12:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/imf-says-japanese-banks-government-bond-holdings-risk-financial-stability.html
Japanese banks’ holdings of
government bonds pose a risk to financial stability should the
securities tumble in price, the International Monetary Fund said.  “Banks’ ever-larger holdings of government bonds and the
increasing interest-rate risk arising from their extension into
longer-dated maturities create a potential risk to financial
stability if there were a sudden increase in government bond
yields,” the IMF said in its semiannual World Economic Outlook
report released yesterday in Washington.  Japanese banks held 294 trillion yen ($3.5 trillion) in
government debt as of December, or 43 percent of the total
outstanding, Finance Ministry data show. Expanded monetary
easing by the Bank of Japan, which this week cut its  key
overnight lending rate  for the first time since 2008 and pledged
to buy more government bonds, has helped pushed benchmark 10-
year yields to a seven-year low.  “A near-term disruption in the government bond market
remains unlikely, but the factors currently supporting the
Japanese bond market are expected to gradually erode,” the fund
said.  The fund forecast Japan’s  gross domestic product  to
increase 2.8 percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2011, while
consumer prices will continue to slide throughout that period.
The 2010 growth forecast was 0.4 percentage point higher than
the IMF’s prediction in July, while the estimate for 2011 was
lowered by 0.3 percentage point.  The fund reiterated that Japan needs to work to pare its
 debt load  and that the burden is constraining the government’s
ability to use fiscal policy to stimulate a slowing economy.  “In Japan, decisive fiscal consolidation is unavoidable,
given the high level of public debt and anticipated fiscal needs
related to the aging population,” the report said. “Japan’s
economic prospects remain weak, given lackluster domestic demand
and a lack of fiscal room to further boost the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lily Nonomiya  in Tokyo at 
 lnonomiya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  