-- IMF Wrong to Predict Continuing Venezuela Recession, Finance Minister Says
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2010-10-06T20:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/imf-wrong-to-predict-continuing-venezuela-recession-finance-minister-says.html
Venezuelan Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  rejected the IMF’s conclusions that the government’s
poor fiscal policy is causing a five-quarter recession to
continue into the second half of 2010.  Venezuela will be constrained by “severe supply
bottlenecks” and a “weak policy framework,” the IMF said in
its World Economic Outlook published today. The country’s
economy will shrink 1.3 percent this year before returning to
growth of 0.5 percent in 2011, the report said.  “It’s the IMF that’s in crisis,” Giordani said in an
interview on Union Radio. “They did not foresee the world
crisis.”  Venezuela’s economy is recovering and can operate with
fewer imports that require the government to delve into foreign
currency reserves, Giordani said. The dismantling of the
parallel foreign exchange market in May and the introduction of
a state-run system, known as SITME, has put a brake on capital
flight and should ensure “healthy” growth, Giordani said.  “The Venezuelan economy is in the gym right now losing all
the fat it had,” Giordani said.  IMF report predicted inflation of 29.2 percent this year
and 32.2 percent in 2011, the highest in the region.  The government policy of nationalizing much of the food
industry has helped to curb inflation, Giordani said.  Consumer prices rose 1.3 percent in September from August,
according to the central bank’s benchmark Caracas price index
published yesterday, lower than the 1.8 percent median forecast
of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Food prices fell 0.1
percent in September from a month earlier, down from a monthly
increase of 12.5 percent in April.  Venezuela’s economy, the only one in Latin America still in
recession, shrank a less-than-forecast 1.9 percent in the three
months through June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .
 Jose Orozco  in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  