-- India Stocks `Not Yet a Bubble' as Sensex Approaches Record High, BNP Says
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-10-06T01:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/india-stocks-not-yet-a-bubble-as-sensex-approaches-record-high-bnp-says.html
India stocks  aren’t in “bubble”
territory even with the Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index
approaching its all-time high, according to BNP Paribas.  The Sensex, as the benchmark gauge is known, is valued at
18 times the estimated earnings over a one-year period, compared
with a multiple of 25 times at its previous peak, BNP analysts
led by  Manishi Raychaudhuri  wrote in a report today. Unlike a
typical “bubble” where most industries and stocks climb by
similar degrees, the rally this time has been “extremely
uneven,” the analysts also said.  The Sensex yesterday slipped 0.3 percent to 20,407.71,
trimming its gains this year to 17 percent. The measure, the
best performer this year among benchmark indexes for the world’s
10 largest stock markets by value, needs to climb 2.3 percent to
reach its Jan. 8, 2008 record of 20,873.33.  “In absolute terms, Sensex is back at the peak -- though
not in terms of valuations,” the analysts said. “Some tactical
buying and selling opportunities have arisen as a consequence of
such divergence in stock performance relative to the index.”  Foreign fund inflows to India’s equities have increased
about 59 percent this year as the nation’s economic growth
attracted investors.  Gross domestic product  expanded 8.8 percent
in the three months through June from a year earlier, the most
among major economies after China and Brazil.  Sesa Goa, Reliance Infrastructure  Sesa Goa Ltd. , the nation’s biggest iron ore exporter, and
Reliance Infrastructure Ltd., controlled by billionaire Anil
Ambani, are among stocks that have lagged behind and offer
“tactical upside possibilities,” the BNP Paribas analysts
said. Sesa Goa has declined 12 percent this year and  Reliance
Infrastructure  has retreated 2.9 percent.  The brokerage also favors  Shiv-Vani Oil & Gas Exploration
Services Ltd. , Satyam Computer Services Ltd., Rolta India Ltd.,
IVRCL Infrastructures & Projects Ltd., IRB Infrastructure
Developers Ltd. and  Nagarjuna Construction Co.   Among companies that have outperformed, the brokerage is
“fundamentally bearish” on  DLF Ltd. , Grasim Industries Ltd.,
Onmobile Global Ltd. and UltraTech Cement Ltd., according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  