-- Indian Oil Plans $2.5 Billion Share Sale to Lower Debt, Fund Its Expansion
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-10-06T04:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/indian-oil-plans-2-5-billion-share-sale-to-lower-debt-fund-its-expansion.html
Indian Oil Corp. , the nation’s
second-biggest refiner, plans to sell $2.5 billion of stock to
lower debt and fund new plants, Chairman  Brij Mohan Bansal  said.  “We are in the process of appointing the lead managers and
bankers,” Bansal said in an interview in New York. Government
approval of the plan is expected soon and the New Delhi-based
company plans to sell shares in January, he said.  Bansal said the funds will help  Indian Oil  reduce its 450
billion rupee ($10.1 billion) debt as it builds a new refinery
in Orissa state and looks for possible overseas ventures. The
sale will take place along with a dilution of the 79 percent
stake held by the government, which in January said it wants to
cut its investments in the nation’s companies to raise funds for
development and shrink the  budget deficit .  “It shouldn’t be a challenge for a company the size of
Indian Oil to raise the planned funds as long as the government
spreads out its share sales and the market continues to remain
buoyant,” said  Mahesh Patil , who helps manage $2.5 billion
equities at Birla Sun Life Asset Management Co.  The stock climbed 0.5 percent to 422.50 rupees at 9:34 a.m.
in Mumbai trading. The refiner has  advanced  38 percent this year
compared with an 18 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index  of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  The refiner’s long-term debt has a Baa3  rating  by Moody’s
Investors Service, the lowest investment-grade ranking. The
company last month approved the sale of as many as 242.8 million
shares, or 10 percent of its equity, through a public offer
along with the government share sale.  Oil Prices  Indian Oil is building a refinery in Orissa state with an
annual processing capacity of 15 million tons. The company plans
to spend $10 billion on expansion, Bansal said.  Bansal said that crude oil prices will likely range between
$70 and $80 a barrel by the end of this year. Benchmark futures
have climbed 17 percent in New York the past year and traded at
$82.66 at 12:54 p.m. Sydney time.  The increase in crude prices has forced the company to slow
its overseas expansion, he said.  “We had very optimistic plans for overseas, but because of
oil prices and subsidy issues we have kept our overseas ventures
in Indonesia and Malaysia on the backburner,” Bansal said. “If
opportunities are there, our first target will be Africa.”  The Indian government plans to sell shares in as many as 68
companies as part of efforts to shrink the budget deficit to 5.5
percent of gross domestic product this fiscal year from an
estimated 6.9 percent last year. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
wants to raise 400 billion rupees from asset sales by March 31
to also help fund construction of roads, ports, hospitals and
schools.  Indian Oil may sell 100 billion rupees of fresh equity, Oil
Secretary S. Sundareshan said Sept. 11. The government may raise
as much as 190 billion rupees selling shares in Indian Oil and
Oil & Natural Gas Corp., the country’s biggest energy explorer,
he said then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 