-- India Plans to Sign U.S. Shale Gas Accord During Obama Visit
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-10-06T23:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/india-plans-to-sign-u-s-shale-gas-technology-agreement-when-obama-visits.html
India plans to sign an accord with
the U.S. on shale gas technology when President Barack Obama
visits in November as the south Asian nation prepares to offer
exploration areas for the first time next year.  “We are hopeful that we will get into collaboration,”  S. Sundareshan , India’s oil secretary, said in an interview in New
York yesterday. “The policy framework for shale gas is being
formulated and the first round of auction will be before the end
of 2011.”  India intends to join a boom in shale-gas exploration that
has fueled more than $39 billion of acquisitions in the U.S. by
companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. , Royal Dutch Shell Plc and
 Reliance Industries Ltd.  The nation faces an energy shortfall of
55 percent by 2030 as demand more than doubles to the equivalent
of 1.3 billion metric tons of oil, according to the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency .  India will need to change exploration laws to allow for the
production of shale gas as current exploration licenses don’t
include such so-called unconventional sources, Sundareshan said.  Reliance Industries, India’s largest company by market
Value, has agreed to pay almost $3.4 billion for stakes in U.S.
shale-gas fields since April, taking on partnerships in
Pennsylvania and Texas, where U.S. producers first learned to
extract gas commercially from hard, impermeable shale.  Preliminary estimates show India’s shale-gas reserves may
be larger than its proven conventional gas deposits, P.K.
Bhowmick, president of the country’s  Association of Petroleum
Geologists , said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in Mumbai at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 