-- Miners’ Iron-Ore Pricing Evolution Curbs Demand for Swaps Trade
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-10-06T14:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/miners-iron-ore-pricing-evolution-curbs-demand-for-swaps-trade.html
Demand for iron-ore swaps has dropped
following this year’s shift away from a four-decade old pricing
system toward shorter-term contracts and a lack of interest from
steelmaking consumers of the ore, analysts said.  “The system has changed, there is no going back and I
think the bottleneck is: the steel mills don’t really understand
or want to use swaps at the moment,” said  Jim Lennon , executive
director of commodities and mining research at Macquarie Group
Ltd. in London. Uptake of swaps will “take time,” he said.  The world’s biggest iron ore exporters this year scrapped a
custom of pricing cargoes in 12-month periods, replacing it with
quarterly contracts based on the average  price  over three
months. More iron ore is shipped across oceans than any other
dry bulk commodity, with the market forecast by Credit Suisse
Group AG to total 1 billion metric tons this year.  Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse started offering iron-
ore swaps in 2008 as a means for market participants including
producers, mills and consumers to lock in prices, reducing the
risk of market fluctuations. Trade in the derivative contracts
was 40 percent lower in September than in April, according to
data from  SGX AsiaClear , the securities and derivatives exchange
of Singapore Exchange Ltd.  Missing Liquidity  “What’s missing at the moment on the derivatives market
right now is liquidity,”  Michael Widmer , head of metal markets
research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London, said at a
conference in the city yesterday. “An evolving pricing system
on the physical market is clearly not conducive” to boosting
demand for swaps, he said.  Swaps peaked in April with 4,436 lots traded for a volume
of 2.2 million tons, according to SGX Asiaclear data posted on
its website. The volume for September was 2,682 lots, or 1.3
million tons, the data show.  “We’ve sort of plateaued recently and I guess some people
are arguing: is this a sign that there are fundamental issues,
and I’d argue definitely not,”  Ray Key , Deutsche Bank’s global
head of metal trading, who helped develop the swaps product,
said yesterday at the same conference. “There is a major battle
going on and the psyches of the steel mills, the producers and
the end consumers are grappling with these issues.”  Quarterly prices are calculated based on the average price
over the preceding three months with a one-month lag. Contract
prices fell 11 percent to $129 a ton in the quarter that began
Oct. 1 from the previous three months, said Hu Kai, an analyst
at UC361.com, citing Platts index prices.  Raw-Material Costs  The China import  price  rose 0.2 percent to $141.40 a ton
yesterday, according to The Steel Index. Steelmakers use about
1.6 tons of iron ore and 0.5 tons of coking coal to make 1 ton
of steel. Raw materials account for as much as 75 percent of
production costs for mills, according to JPMorgan Cazenove.  Vale
SA ,  Rio Tinto Group  and  BHP Billiton Ltd.  are the three biggest
exporters.  The current pricing situation is “a half-way house driven
by the desire by the steel mills not to hedge, they don’t want
to be involved in it,” Macquarie’s Lennon said yesterday.
“We’ve got to get the steel mills and the industry involved in
understanding how to use these tools.”  ArcelorMittal , the world’s largest steelmaker, last week
said it isn’t relying on forward contracts and is looking to
share price volatility with customers. ThyssenKrupp AG,
Germany’s biggest steelmaker, said in April it was “developing
instruments” to hedge iron ore supplies and reduce the effects
of swings in prices.  Enforced Change  “There are fierce debates going on between steel mills,
the auto sector,” Deutsche Bank’s Key said. “One way or the
other, there is going to be a change forced upon someone.
Regardless of how it goes, people are going to start hedging
because they need to.”  BHP , the world’s biggest mining company, said last week it
expects a shift toward monthly pricing accords as they better
reflect the market and the needs of producers and consumers.
Rivals Vale and London-based Rio last month voiced different
views on a switch to shorter contracts.  “We’ve had really quite an amazing change in the way that
the market works, particularly physically and of course we are
still within the transformation,”  Kamal Naqvi , director of
commodities at Credit Suisse, said yesterday. “There really is
no other commodity that is embedded in the outlook for
industrial demand more broadly than iron ore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  