-- Investors Should Buy Put Options on Japan's Sovereign Debt, MF Global Says
-- B y   T h e r e s a   B a r r a c l o u g h
-- 2010-10-06T07:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/investors-should-buy-put-options-on-japan-s-sovereign-debt-mf-global-says.html
Investors should buy put options on
Japanese government bonds to protect against a potential spike
in  yields  amid warnings from the International Monetary Fund,
according to MF Global Singapore Ltd.  The Bank of Japan’s reduction of the overnight lending rate
yesterday to between zero and 0.1 percent may boost credit
demand, prompting domestic lenders to sell the nation’s bonds,
said MF Global Singapore, part of the world’s largest broker of
exchange-traded futures and options. Japanese banks hold a
record amount of the country’s debt.  “It is a risk and it’s on the radar of the IMF,” said
 Geoff Howie , a senior vice president in Singapore at MF Global.
“Our forward focus is on the risk of a sovereign interest-rate
shock in Japan given the concentration of JGB holdings to total
assets in the balance sheet of local Japanese banks. It’s worth
protecting upward spikes in yields.”  Investors should enter agreements that allow the buyer the
right, but not the obligation, to sell bond contracts in the
future, according to Howie.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell six basis
points to 0.835 percent as of 3:10 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
Yields dropped to as low as 0.82 percent, the least for a
benchmark 10-year bond since July 1, 2003. Today’s decline in
yield was the steepest since Nov. 12.  Ten-year yields have fallen 45 basis points so far this
year. Japanese government bonds of all maturities handed
investors a return of 3.4 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  ‘Funding Difficulties’  “Japan’s government bond market has several structural
features that could allow a small risk of distress to quickly
transmit through the banking system and telescope medium-term
fiscal solvency issues into near-term funding difficulties,”
the IMF said in a  report  released this week.  Japanese banks, including  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc.  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. , hold a record 142.2
trillion yen ($1.7 trillion) of the nation’s government bonds,
the most since Bank of Japan started compiling figures in 1993.  “If Japanese banks started lending rather than buying JGBs,
that would be a very welcome development,” said  Guthrie Williamson , a portfolio manager in Sydney at Principal Global
Investors, which manages $200 billion in assets worldwide.
“JGBs would sell off as there would be some signs that the
economy was recovering.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theresa Barraclough  in Tokyo at 
 tbarraclough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 