-- Ireland's Elderfield Says `Liquidity Management' of Senior Bonds Possible
-- B y   L o u i s a   F a h y
-- 2010-10-06T11:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ireland-s-elderfield-says-liquidity-management-of-senior-bonds-possible.html
Irish Financial Regulator  Matthew Elderfield  said a “liquidity management exercise” with senior
bondholders in  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  and Irish Nationwide
Building Society hasn’t been ruled out.  Ireland’s funding crisis means the government should be
“very cautious about contemplating such a step,” Elderfield
told the Dublin parliament. A liquidity management exercise may
include a tender for bonds at below face value although Ireland
has repeatedly said it won’t let nationalized lenders default on
senior securities.  “The government has made its position clear on this matter
and it does not intend to impose losses on senior bondholders,”
Elderfield said. “However, this does not rule out the
possibility of some negotiations or a liquidity management
exercise agreed by consent.”  Fitch Ratings downgraded Ireland by one step to A+ with a
negative outlook today because of the “exceptional and greater-
than-expected” cost of bank bailouts. Anglo Irish has 16.5
billion euros ($23 billion) of senior debt and the government
has pledged as much as 34 billion euros to save the lender from
collapse.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said last week that holders
of the Anglo Irish’s 2.45 billion euros of junior notes must
take on some of the “burden” of the rescue.  The banks 361 million euros of floating-rate notes due June
2014 rose 0.17 cent to 27.667 cents on the euro, according to
pricing data compiled by Bloomberg. Its 500 million euros of
floating-rate bonds maturing in June 2016 rose 0.47 cent to 23.1
cents on the euro, the data show.  Ireland’s deteriorating finances have fueled investor
concern it will follow Greece in tapping the 750 billion-euro
rescue fund set up by the European Union and International
Monetary Fund. The cost of bailing out Ireland’s banks may
ultimately rise to about 50 billion euros, Lenihan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at  