-- Fitch Downgrades Ireland's Rating on Cost of Banking Bailout
-- B y   L o u i s a   F a h y
-- 2010-10-06T12:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ireland-sovereign-debt-rating-cut-one-level-by-fitch-outlook-is-negative.html
Fitch Ratings lowered Ireland’s
credit grade to the lowest of any of the major rating companies
and said there’s a risk of a further reduction.  Ireland was cut to A+ from AA-, reflecting the
“exceptional and greater-than-expected cost” of the nation’s
bailout of its banking system, Fitch said in a statement today.  The move comes a day after Moody’s Investors Service said
it may cut the country’s rating. Ireland may have to spend as
much as 50 billion euros ($69 billion) to repair its financial
system, pushing the budget deficit this year to 32 percent of
gross domestic product. Fitch said the rating could be lowered
again if the economy stagnates and political support for
budgetary consolidation weakens.  “Ireland is at the lowest point, it shouldn’t get any
worse,”  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers
in Dublin, said in a phone interview. “We’re not funding at the
moment. We’re in a comfortable situation.”  Ireland’s government last month canceled bond auctions in
October and November, saying the state is fully funded through
the first half of 2011. Ireland has an Aa2 rating at Moody’s and
AA- at Standard & Poor’s.  ‘Last Resort’  The yield spread between Irish 10-year bonds and those of
Germany, Europe’s benchmark, widened to a record last month on
concern that Ireland would become the first nation after Greece
to tap the 750 billion-euro rescue fund set up in May by the
European Union and International Monetary fund.  Christopher Pryce , a director at Fitch in London, said a
bailout would be a “last resort” for Ireland’s government. The
government is “determined” to avoid the need for aid, as it
may be conditional on the country raising its corporation tax
rate of 12.5 percent, he said by phone.  The euro fell 0.3 percent against the dollar after the
rating cut, dropping to as low as $1.3799. It traded at $1.3863
as of 1:15 p.m. in London.  Irish bonds pared their advance and the  spread  with German
bunds widened to 422 basis points from 410 basis points
yesterday. It reached a record 454 basis points on Sept. 29.
Credit-default swaps linked to Irish government debt rose 9
basis points to 446, according to data provider CMA.  Growth Risks  Ireland has injected about 33 billion euros into banks and
building societies, including 22.9 billion euros into  Anglo
Irish Bank Corp.  Anglo Irish may need up to an additional 6.4
billion euros of capital and a further 5 billion euros in the
event of unexpected losses. Irish Nationwide Building Society
may need a further 2.7 billion euros.  Fitch said the “timing and strength” of the recovery is
critical to reducing the budget deficit. While the economy is
rebalancing, “ongoing distress” in real-estate markets and
uncertainty over the global economic outlook “weigh on growth
prospects and fiscal outlook,” it said.  Irish  consumer confidence  plunged the most in more than
four years last month due to the mounting burden of bailing out
Anglo Irish and the surge in sovereign borrowing costs.  “Ireland has experienced a great panic,” said Austin
Hughes, chief economist at KBC Ireland. There is a “risk that a
sense of apocalyptic gloom may trigger a freeze in spending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at  