-- Liverpool Agrees on $476 Million Sale of Club to Red Sox Owner
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-06T18:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/liverpool-football-club-gets-two-offers-as-split-divides-boardroom.html
Liverpool’s board agreed to sell
England’s most successful soccer club to  John W. Henry ’s Boston
Red Sox holding company over the objections of owners  Tom Hicks 
and  George Gillett , who vowed to resist an offer they said is
too low.  The board reviewed two offers yesterday, and accepted the
one from New England Sports Ventures. It will pay about 300
million pounds ($476 million) for the club, Liverpool Chairman
 Martin Broughton  said in an interview, adding he expected to
deal to be completed in about a week.  The sale is subject to Premier League approval and a legal
challenge from Hicks and Gillett. The owners said earlier today
that the offers “dramatically undervalue the club” and they
will “resist any attempt” to sell without their agreement.  “The board decided to accept NESV’s proposal on the basis
that it best met the criteria we set out originally for a
suitable new owner,” Broughton said in a statement on the
club’s website. “NESV’s philosophy is all about winning and
they have fully demonstrated that at the Red Sox.”  Boston-based New England Sports Ventures is the holding
company for the Red Sox, Fenway Park and New England Sports
Network. Henry, a commodities hedge-fund billionaire, bought the
Red Sox in 2002 and the team won the World Series in 2004,
ending an 86-year wait between baseball championships, and in
2007. The team missed the Major League Baseball playoffs this
year for the first time since 2006.  Proven Record  “We have a proven track record, shown clearly with the
Boston Red Sox,” NESV said in an e-mailed statement. “The team
has won two World Series championships over the past six years.
We will bring the same kind of openness, passion, dedication and
professionalism to Liverpool FC.”  Broughton said the team’s sale against the wishes of the
co-owners was a “difficult issue.” He said he hoped the
necessary legal judgment to allow the deal to go ahead would be
received “by the end of next week.”  “(Hicks and Gillett) gave a written undertaking that only
I could change the board,” Broughton told Sky. “They also gave
a written undertaking to RBS (lender Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc) that they would not frustrate any reasonable sale,
and this is frankly a flagrant abuse of those two written
undertakings.”  Mark Semer , a spokesman for Hicks, disputed Broughton’s
assertion.  “There were no such undertakings given to Broughton, the
board has been legally reconstituted, and the new board does not
approve of this proposed transaction,” Semer said in a
statement.  Stadium Plans  Broughton was “disappointed that the owners have tried
everything to prevent the deal from happening and that we need
to go through legal proceedings in order to complete the sale.”  He said Liverpool would continue with plans to build a new
stadium or refurbish its current home, Anfield.  “We will have a stadium of more than 60,000,” he said.
“I don’t want any hostages to fortune, but the owners want the
new stadium ready within a short time frame.”  Five-time European champion Liverpool, which won the last
of its 18 English league titles in 1990, was put up for sale in
April by Hicks and Gillett with debt totaling 351 million pounds.
They bought the club in a leveraged buyout for 219 million
pounds including debt in 2007.  Acquisition Debt  According to Liverpool, NESV’s offer wipes out the
acquisition debt. In April that figure was 237 million pounds,
and had ballooned to 280 million pounds because of penalty fees
linked to an extension granted to the owners by Royal Bank of
Scotland Group.  NESV will pay down all the 200 million pounds Hicks and
Gillett raised from RBS to buy the club. The remaining 37
million pounds will remain on the bank’s books in ongoing credit
facilities.  “NESV wants to create a long-term financially solid
foundation for Liverpool FC and is dedicated to ensuring that
the club has the resources to build for the future, including
the removal of all acquisition debt,” the company said. “Our
objective is to stabilize the club and ultimately return
Liverpool FC to its rightful place in English and European
football, successfully competing for and winning trophies.”  Hicks and Gillett remain liable for the 40 million pounds
in penalty fees and it’s unclear what will happen to the 144.4
million pounds loaned to the club by its current owners.  Deadline  Hicks and Gillett, who said they’ve invested $270 million
in cash since buying the club, faced a mid-October deadline to
sell or refinance their 280 million-pound debt to RBS.  The government-controlled lender could have taken control
of the club had a sale agreement not been reached.  Managing Director  Christian Purslow , Commercial Director
 Ian Ayre  and Broughton yesterday blocked a third attempt by the
owners to refinance, three people familiar with the situation
said. They declined to be identified because talks to sell the
club were still in progress.  To try to wrest control of the sale, Hicks and Gillett
attempted to remove Purslow and Ayre before yesterday’s board
meeting and replace them with  Mack Hicks  and Lori Kay McCutcheon,
who is vice president at Hicks Holdings LLC. Liverpool said late
yesterday the matter was “subject to legal review.”  The U.S. co-owners’ tenure has been against the backdrop of
protests by fans. Thousands of supporters marched before
Liverpool’s last two home games.  The off-field discord has been accompanied by the team’s
worst league start in more than half a century. That followed
 Roy Hodgson ’s appointment as manager July 1 to replace  Rafael Benitez  after the Spaniard took the Reds to their lowest Premier
League finish in 11 years.  Liverpool slipped to 18th place in the 20-team standings
following a 2-1 home loss to Blackpool three days ago.  Last season’s seventh-place finish meant Liverpool failed
to qualify for the Champions League, the first time it hasn’t
been in the elite European competition since 2003-04, missing
out on about 30 million pounds in revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  