-- Liverpool Fans `Skeptical' of Boston Red Sox Owner's Takeover of Club
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-10-06T15:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/liverpool-fans-skeptical-of-boston-red-sox-owner-s-takeover-of-club.html
Liverpool fans say they’re skeptical
about becoming part of Red Sox Nation.  John W. Henry ’s Boston Red Sox holding company had a 300
million-pound ($476 million) bid accepted by Liverpool’s board.
The sale is subject to Premier League approval and a legal
challenge from owners  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett , who said
Henry’s offer “dramatically” undervalues the team.  Fans of the 18-time English soccer champion are wary of
another American owner after accusing Hicks and Gillett of
draining the team of cash to fund a 2007 leveraged buyout,
according to Jegsy Dodd, an author who has written a book about
following the team. Liverpool is having its worst league start
in more than half a century.  “Supporters are hardly going to welcome the next set of
Americans with open arms,” Dodd, 52, said in an interview.
They’ll be “very skeptical,” concerned that they’re motivated
by profit more than the club’s long-term future, Dodd added.  Henry, a commodities hedge-fund billionaire, would become
the latest foreign investor to buy a club in the Premier League,
soccer’s richest by sales, following the likes of  Roman Abramovich  and  Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan of Chelsea and
Manchester City, respectively. American investors control
Manchester United, Aston Villa and Sunderland.  Henry’s New England Sports Ventures is the holding company
for the Red Sox, Fenway Park and New England Sports Network. He
bought the Red Sox in 2002 and the team won the World Series in
2004, ending an 86-year wait between baseball championships, and
in 2007. Fans, collectively known as “Red Sox Nation,” saw it
miss out on this year’s Major League Baseball playoffs.  ‘Yanks Out’  Liverpool last won the English league in 1990. Thousands of
Liverpool fans marched in protest at Hicks and Gillett’s
stewardship of the club over the last two years, chanting
“Yanks Out” and other slogans. Henry will get a guarded
welcome, according to a statement by Spirit of Shankly, a
Liverpool supporters’ club.  “There will be one gently outstretched hand of welcome
while the other hand contains a list of questions,” the
statement said. Fans want to know how the purchase will be
financed, plans for the Anfield stadium and player investment,
the statement added.  To be sure, it’s a comfort to tie up with “such a great
sporting institution” as the Red Sox, said Joe Corrigan, a
Liverpool season-ticket holder who travels to homes games from
his home in Hoorn, the Netherlands.  “I understand Mr. Henry has had a certain amount of
success” with the Red Sox, Corrigan, 54, said. “I don’t think
he would get involved with Liverpool if he didn’t want to run
the club properly.”  Corrigan said he used to watch the Liverpool team when it
was coached by Bill Shankly, who lived within walking distance
of the training ground. Supporters would prefer a local owner,
too, Dodd says.  “In an ideal world you want a local businessman to buy it
who understands the passion, the folklore, the tradition” of
the 118-year-old club, Dodd said. “The natives are restless.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net . 