-- Tom Hicks Says Sale of Liverpool to Boston Red Sox Owner Henry Is Unlawful
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-06T20:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/liverpool-s-tom-hicks-says-club-s-sale-to-red-sox-owner-henry-is-unlawful.html
The sale of England’s most successful
soccer team to  John W. Henry ’s Boston Red Sox holding company is
unlawful because the board wasn’t authorized to approve the sale
of Liverpool Football Club, according to co-owner  Tom Hicks .  Hicks and partner  George Gillett  are trying to block the
300 million-pound ($476.4 million) sale, arguing that they
should’ve been able to institute boardroom changes that would’ve
allowed the offer to be rejected. Both feel the club is worth
more, with the current deal leaving them with a loss of 140
million pounds, Liverpool Chairman  Martin Broughton  said.  Broughton said in an interview with Bloomberg today he had
a written agreement with the owners prior to joining the team in
April that only he would be allowed to change the composition of
the board. Broughton blocked the Liverpool owners’ attempts
yesterday to fire Commercial Director  Ian Ayre  and Managing
Director  Christian Purslow .  “There were no such undertakings given to Broughton, the
board has been legally reconstituted, and the new board does not
approve of this proposed transaction,” Hicks’s New York-based
spokesman  Mark Semer  said in a statement to Bloomberg News.  The matter is now heading for the courts with Hicks and
Gillett arguing that Purslow and Ayre shouldn’t have voted on
the deal because they had been replaced by  Mack Hicks  and Lori
Kay McCutcheon, who is vice president at Hicks Holdings LLC.  “They agreed to give me a written undertaking that I was
the only person who could change the board,” Broughton said.
“They gave me a written undertaking that the sale would take
place at the U.K. holding company, of which the board would be
five. It would be the board that could sell and I had the
casting vote.”  With a deadline for Hicks and Gillett to repay a 237
million-pound debt with  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  days away,
Broughton called a board meeting to discuss two “excellent
bids,” before Henry’s group was chosen ahead of a Singaporean
billionaire.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  