-- Liverpool Chairman Says Hicks, Gillett to Lose $222 Million on Club's Sale
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-06T15:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/liverpool-chairman-broughton-says-hicks-gillett-lost-222-million-on-sale.html
George Gillett  and  Tom Hicks ’s
ownership of Liverpool will lead to the pair losing 140 million
pounds ($222 million), the team’s chairman said after agreeing
to sell England’s most successful soccer club to  John W. Henry ’s
Boston Red Sox holding company.  Hicks and Gillett have mounted a legal challenge to block
the 300 million-pound sale of the 18-time English champion. It
was agreed on by the other three members of the club’s board,
including Chairman  Martin Broughton .  Colorado-based Gillett and Texan Hicks yesterday tried to
fire the team’s Commercial Director  Ian Ayre  and Managing
Director  Christian Purslow  in an attempt to derail the sale
because they felt it undervalued the team.  “They’ve invested about 140 million pounds of their own
money in this and they’re losing it all,” Broughton said in an
interview today. “This was actually their last chance to leave
Liverpool with their heads held high. The legacy has not been a
healthy one. That they’ve chosen to go out in this manner I
think is sad.”  There was a 144.4 million-pound loan to the club from the
owners, according to the latest accounts.  Nicola Howson, a spokeswoman for the owners, didn’t respond
to a voicemail seeking comment.  Mark Semer , a spokesman for
Hicks, was unable to immediately respond to a call.  Broughton and Barclays Capital were hired by the club in
April to search for new owners as a condition of  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s  agreement to extend a 237 million-pound
loan facility. With the debt due to mature next week, Henry’s
New England Sports Ventures fought off the challenge of a rival
bidder.  Fans Protested  Liverpool supporters have protested against Hicks and
Gillett for much of their tenure because they raised debt
against the club to finance their 219 million-pound takeover in
February 2007. Broughton said the new buyers won’t be leveraged.  “This is cash coming into the business from a corporation
that does not itself believe in leverage,” he said. “This is
cash coming in as equity, it’s writing off the whole of the 200
million of acquisition debt and gets us down to the normal
levels of working capital debt.”  Earlier this year Hicks said he expected Liverpool to sell
for as much as 800 million pounds before reducing his estimate
to 600 million. Yesterday the owners released a statement saying
the two offers considered by the board “dramatically undervalue
the club.”  It may take a week for the legal obstacles to be overcome,
Broughton said, adding he was confident about his and the
remaining members of the Liverpool board’s position.  “They agreed to give me a written undertaking that I was
the only person who could change the board,” Broughton said.
“They gave me a written undertaking that the sale would take
place at the U.K. holding company, of which the board would be
five. It would be the board that could sell and I had the
casting vote.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  