-- Japan Said to Weigh Bank-Capital Surcharge; FSA Denies
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2010-10-06T14:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/japan-said-to-consider-imposing-capital-surcharge-over-basel-iii-on-banks.html
Japan’s financial regulator is
considering forcing the country’s largest banks to hold more
capital than required under Basel III rules, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  The Financial Services Agency will start internal
discussions soon on whether to apply a capital surcharge to
systemically important lenders such as  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. , the person said, declining to be identified because
the matter is confidential.  An official at the FSA who spoke on condition of anonymity
said at a press conference in Tokyo today that the regulator
isn’t considering a capital surcharge.  A Swiss government-appointed panel said Oct. 4 that  UBS AG 
and  Credit Suisse Group AG  should hold more capital than
required by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. Japan’s
largest banks may have to cut dividends or raise more capital
should the country impose a capital surcharge, Credit Suisse
analysts said this week.  “Our leading banks should, in the long run, further
increase capital above the Basel minimum level in order to take
certain risks, boost lending, and reap higher profits,”
 Shinsuke Amiya , a Democratic Party of Japan lawmaker who is a
member of the Financial Affairs Committee, said yesterday in an
interview.  The FSA’s deliberations may last a year or two, the person
said. Japanese lenders should be able to achieve the Basel III
levels by building internal reserves, according to the person.  Bank Shares Rise  Bank stocks rebounded after the FSA’s briefing. Mitsubishi
UFJ, Japan’s biggest lender, climbed 2.8 percent at 2:21 p.m. in
Tokyo after earlier declining as much as 1.8 percent. Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc., the second-largest bank, advanced
1.6 percent and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. , the third largest,
gained 7.8 percent, heading for the biggest increase this year.  Japan’s three largest banks have raised about 4.5 trillion
yen ($54.1 billion) by selling shares since December 2008,
bolstering their balance sheets as regulators called for lenders
to hold more capital.  The Swiss panel said last month that  UBS  and Credit Suisse
should hold almost double the capital required under the Basel
III proposals announced last month. By 2019, the lenders would
need to hold at least 10 percent of capital in common equity,
compared with 7 percent required under Basel.  The possibility of a global capital surcharge of around 2
percent for the world’s most important banks “cannot be ruled
out,”  Shinichi Ina , a Tokyo-based analyst at Credit Suisse,
wrote in a report this week.  G-20 Meeting  Group of 20 leaders will consider the Basel III proposals
and discuss stricter rules for the biggest banks at a summit in
Seoul next month.  As well as Switzerland, China is considering more stringent
capital requirements than those proposed by the Basel Committee.
China’s banking regulator may require the nation’s biggest
lenders to boost their capital adequacy ratios to as high as 15
percent by the end of 2012, a person with knowledge of the
matter said last month.  Banks worldwide may resist the imposition of any additional
capital burden. Extra capital requirements on the biggest
lenders would increase the “economic impact” of regulatory
reform, the Institute of International Finance, a group that
represents 400 firms worldwide, said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Shingo Kawamoto  in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  