-- Japan's 10-Year Bonds May Fall as BOJ Buys Shorter-Dated Debt, Mizuho Says
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2010-10-06T02:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/japan-s-10-year-bonds-may-fall-as-boj-buys-shorter-dated-debt-mizuho-says.html
Japan’s 10-year  bonds  are poised to
halt a month long rally after the central bank signaled it is
unlikely to increase purchases of longer-maturity debt,
according to Mizuho Securities Research & Consulting Co.  The Bank of Japan said after a meeting yesterday it would
set up a 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) fund to buy about 3.5
trillion yen in government debt due in up to two years, and use
the remainder to purchase commercial paper, exchange traded
funds and real estate investment trusts. The central bank kept
the target for its existing program of monthly government bond
purchases unchanged at 1.8 trillion yen.  “Pressure may ease a lot on the BOJ to buy more long-term
bonds because they decided to secure liquidity by purchasing
debt nearing maturity in a separate facility,” said  Makoto Noji ,
a Tokyo-based strategist at Mizuho Securities, a unit of Japan’s
second-largest banking group. “Downward pressure on long-term
yields is likely to wane.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell 5.5 basis
points to 0.84 percent as of the 11:05 a.m. morning close in
Tokyo, the lowest level since July 2003, according to Japan Bond
Trading Co. The rate has dropped from 1.195 percent on Sept. 6.  The benchmark 10-year yield may rise to 1.20 percent by
year-end, Noji said. That would hand investors a loss of 2.8
percent over the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
taking into account interest payments.  The government bonds bought by the BOJ through its new
facility will skirt the central bank’s self-imposed ceiling on
holdings of those securities because of the program’s
“temporary” status.  “The BOJ seems to be reluctant to buy more long-term bonds
because it could compromise its fiscal discipline,” Noji said.  Risk Premium  Bonds may also be set to decline as investors demand an
increasing risk premium on concern Japan’s fiscal situation is
deteriorating, Noji said.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government plans a 4.8 trillion
yen package of measures to bolster growth and counter deflation,
threatening to worsen the world’s biggest public debt load.  “The government will be urged to do more, which may worsen
the fiscal situation,” Noji said.  Japan’s government bonds maturing in 10 years or longer
have handed investors a return of 8.1 percent this year,
according to an index compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit.  The BOJ also cut its benchmark overnight interest rate
yesterday to a range of 0 percent to 0.1 percent, the lowest
level since 2006, from 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 Ikeda4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 