-- Japan's Bonds Find Buyers Despite Seven-Year-Low Yield, Toyota Asset Says
-- B y   N o b u y u k i   A k a m a
-- 2010-10-06T02:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/japan-s-bonds-find-buyers-despite-seven-year-low-yield-toyota-asset-says.html
Japan’s government bonds may draw
buyers even as 10-year yields drop to a seven-year low,
according to Toyota Asset Management Co.  Benchmark 10-year debt rose for a third day after the Bank
of Japan pledged yesterday to expand its balance sheet and hold
interest rates at “virtually zero.” Financial institutions
will continue to invest excess funds in bonds as the BOJ’s
easing measures fail to lead to an immediate economic recovery,
said  Jun Fukashiro , chief fund manager at Toyota Asset in Tokyo.  “With short- to medium-term yields likely to be capped, it
wouldn’t be surprising if long-term debt draws buyers at yields
below 1 percent,” Fukashiro said.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell 4.5 basis
points to 0.85 percent at 10:45 a.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. Ten-
year yields were at the lowest level since July 1, 2003.  Investors may be snapping up Japan’s bonds on growing
concerns that the nation will slip into a recession, said
 Seiji Shiraishi , chief economist at HSBC Securities in Tokyo.  Confidence among large Japanese manufacturers rose the
least since early 2009 in September, and companies forecast that
pessimists will outnumber optimists by year-end, according to
the BOJ’s  Tankan  index released last week.  Demand for Japan’s bonds is also increasing on speculation
the Bank of Japan and the Federal Reserve will maintain their
accommodative policies, according to Shiraishi.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said this week the U.S.
central bank’s first round of large-scale asset purchases
improved the economy and that further buying of debt is likely
to help more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nobuyuki Akama  in Tokyo at   akam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 