-- Japan $58 Billion Economic Stimulus Plan Seeks to Benefit From Strong Yen
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-10-06T10:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/japan-ruling-party-proposes-58-billion-stimulus-to-gain-from-yen-strength.html
Japan’s ruling party proposed an
economic stimulus in excess of 4.8 trillion yen ($58 billion)
that would help local governments and small businesses create
jobs and turn a strengthening yen to the country’s advantage.  The  Democratic Party of Japan  proposed using 3 trillion yen
to assist regional economies and employment, according to a
policy document released today. About 100 billion yen would
support overseas projects made more attractive by the currency
gain and find new sources of rare earth metals after Japan said
China disrupted shipments to the country following a territorial
dispute.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said last week that passing the
stimulus is his top priority in the parliament session to keep
Japan’s economic recovery intact. The yen’s surge to a 15-year
high against the dollar prompted exporters including  Nintendo Co. 
to cut profit forecasts and persuaded the government to
intervene in the currency market for the first time since 2004.  “The package won’t simply be measures but also a strategy
for the future,” the DPJ paper said. “We will strongly promote
the securing of natural resources, including rare earths, and
the exporting of infrastructure by taking advantage of the
current yen strength.”  The policy proposals, drafted by a team led by former Trade
Minister  Masayuki Naoshima , were submitted to Kan’s government
today. The party also suggested establishing a sovereign wealth
fund that might better employ Japan’s $1 trillion of foreign
exchange reserves.  Too Small  Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said after meeting Naoshima
and National Strategy Minister  Koichiro Gemba  today he supports
the package though he doesn’t expect all proposals will be taken
up by the government. Further discussion is needed on the
investment fund, he said.  Kan unveiled a 915 billion yen stimulus last month that
party rivals said was too small, forcing him to fend off a
leadership challenge.  His government then sold 2.12 trillion yen in an effort to
stem the currency’s gains. The yen traded at 83.16 against the
dollar at 3:35 p.m. Japan time, within half a yen of the level
that triggered the intervention.  The Bank of Japan is also taking action to safeguard
Japan’s recovery, yesterday cutting its overnight interest rate
to 0-0.1 percent from 0.1 percent and expanding its balance
sheet in an attempt to beat deflation.  Reaching Out  Kan must reach out to opposition parties to pass the
stimulus, which called for new spending of between 4 and 5
trillion yen, after the DPJ lost control of the less-powerful
upper house in July’s election.  The DPJ call to find new sources of rare earths comes after
China, which controls more than 95 percent of global supply,
imposed a de facto ban on exports to Japan last month, according
to the Japanese government.  This followed the detention of a Chinese captain whose ship
collided with Japanese Coast Guard vessels in disputed waters on
Sept. 7. Rare earths are a group of 17 metals used in weapons,
hybrid vehicles and laptop computers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  