-- John Henry Seeks to Repeat Boston Red Sox Success at Liverpool
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-07T12:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/john-henry-seeks-repeat-of-boston-red-sox-success-as-liverpool-soccer-boss.html
A record of winning is the biggest
asset  John W. Henry ’s Boston Red Sox holding company brings to
its pending purchase of Liverpool, according to the chairman of
England’s most-successful soccer club.  Compared with the championship drought that Henry faced
when he bought the baseball team, the Reds’ 20 years without a
domestic league title is nothing.  When the group took over the Red Sox in January 2002, the
team hadn’t won the World Series since 1918. Since then, they’ve
taken the title twice, restored baseball’s oldest stadium and
built a television network to feed a fan base known as Red Sox
Nation.  “In the end, it was really the track record that New
England Sports have in delivering,” Liverpool Chairman  Martin Broughton  said in an interview yesterday. “There’s a fairly
close parallel. The Red Sox, long famous, traditional, not
performing at the right level. They came in and made them
winners. That’s what we want to see.”  The Liverpool board accepted the New England Sports
Ventures’ offer of about 300 million pounds ($476 million). The
club’s American co-owners,  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett , called
the offer too low and vowed to fight the sale in court.  Hicks, through spokesman  Mark Semer , later said the board
vote was illegal, and that the co-owners had followed the rules.  Hicks and Gillett bought five-time European champion
Liverpool in a 291 million-pound leveraged buyout in 2007.
According to Liverpool, NESV’s offer wipes out the debt.  Tradition, Innovation  Henry’s ownership of the Red Sox has maintained the team’s
traditions such as preserving Fenway Park, while exploring new
ideas such as the statistical-analysis tools developed by  Bill James  and hiring then 28-year-old  Theo Epstein  as baseball’s
youngest general manager. The team accumulated the second-
highest payroll in baseball this season with about $170 million,
behind the New York Yankees’ $207 million, according to ESPN.  The Boston-based company owns the Red Sox, Fenway Park and
the New England Sports Network. Henry, a commodities hedge-fund
billionaire, has headed the group since it bought the team. The
Red Sox won the World Series in 2004 and 2007.  “We have a proven track record, shown clearly with the
Boston Red Sox,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.
“We will bring the same kind of openness, passion, dedication
and professionalism to Liverpool FC.”  Henry, 61, entered Major League Baseball in 1991 by
acquiring one percent of the Yankees. In 1999, he bought control
of the Florida Marlins for $158 million from  Wayne Huizenga , who
owned football’s Miami Dolphins and co-founded  Blockbuster Inc.   Marlins Sale  After failing to convince politicians to back taxes to
finance a new stadium, Henry put the Marlins up for sale in 2001
and joined with  Larry Lucchino , former chief executive of the
Baltimore Orioles, and television producer  Tom Werner  to pursue
the Red Sox. They won the team with a $660 million offer to the
Yawkey Trust in December 2001 and said they’d assume $40 million
in debt.  From then through 2009, the Red Sox had the second-highest
regular-season winning percentage in baseball, at .581. They’ve
qualified for the postseason in six of the last eight years and
won more playoff games and World Series titles than any other
team.  The club has spent on free agents such as designated hitter
 David Ortiz  and pitcher  John Lackey , while raising stars such as
second baseman  Dustin Pedroia , the 2008 American League Most
Valuable Player, within its system. It also hired James, who had
designed statistical tools to analyze the game, as a senior
adviser.  Oldest Park  Henry also respected tradition, restoring Fenway, opened in
1912, instead of replacing it with a new, more lucrative
stadium, said  Michael Cramer , director of the sports and media
 program  at the University of Texas.  “I would grade them an A on operating the team and using
their assets,” said Cramer, former president of the Texas
Rangers and hockey’s Dallas Stars, which were owned by Hicks.
“I think the people of Liverpool should expect that the
approach will be the same.”  Broughton said Liverpool would continue plans to build a
new stadium or refurbish its current home, Anfield.  “We will have a stadium of more than 60,000,” he said.
“I don’t want any hostages to fortune, but the owners want the
new stadium ready within a short time frame.”  Coach ‘Delighted’  Liverpool won the most recent of its 18 domestic league
titles in 1990 and hasn’t picked up a trophy since the F.A. Cup
in 2006. This season it’s won one of seven games and is 18th of
20 teams in the Premier League. The bottom three are demoted to
the second tier at the end of the season.  “It’s very positive and of course I’m delighted,” coach
 Roy Hodgson  said of the sale agreement, in comments on the  club
website  today. “It’s been going on a long time and I know how
hard the board have worked to set things up. I know it’s not
easy for them because the owners have other ideas in terms of
the sale of the club and what is achievable.”  Hicks, 64, and Gillett, 71, have been among a group of U.S.
owners of Premier League teams, including the Glazer family with
Manchester United -- who have also encountered fan dissent --
and  Randy Lerner  with Aston Villa.  Bernie Mullin , a Liverpool native and former chief
executive of the National Basketball Association’s Atlanta
Hawks, said the new owners need “the right approach” with
English fans, “really looking into the differences with the
U.K. market, understanding not to call it a ‘franchise’ at the
press conference, because it’s a one-of-a-kind brand.”  Broughton said fans should “keep the faith.”  “There’s nothing wrong with being American,” he said.
“These guys understand about investing. They understand about
building the team. They’ve got a budget. They’re all about
winning.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 