-- JPMorgan's India Chief Says Banks Locked in `Low-Fee Game' in Stock Offers
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-10-06T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/jpmorgan-s-india-chief-says-banks-locked-in-low-fee-game-in-stock-offers.html
Investment banks in India face
pressure on fees as competition intensifies for state asset
sales in a record year for equity offerings, said the head of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s local operations.  “We didn’t start the low-fee game. But we now have to
pitch lower fees if we want to be on deals since everyone is
doing it,” Kalpana Morparia said in an interview in Mumbai.  JPMorgan is among six banks that agreed to split a fee of
less than one paisa (0.02 cent) for underwriting the latest
state deal, a secondary sale of shares in  Steel Authority of
India Ltd. , according to two people with knowledge of the
matter. Banks must match the lowest fees to win work on state
deals, according to government guidelines.  The Wall Street firm, ranked first globally in managing
equity sales, slipped to eighth in India this year for domestic
stock sales and rights offerings from sixth in 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup  is No. 1 this year.  “We don’t look at our rankings on the basis of just
domestic deals,” Morparia, 61, said. “We weigh ourselves on
all the deals done for an Indian company, overseas or
domestically.”  New York-based JPMorgan won assignments to work on two
other state deals in the past three months: A stake sale in
 Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd.  and an initial public
offering of Manganese Ore (India) Ltd. It will earn near-zero
fees for those transactions as well.  “A bank could lose anywhere between 20 million and 40
million rupees ($895,000) on deals that don’t pay any fees,”
said S. Venkatraghavan, head of equity capital markets at  IDFC
Capital Ltd.  in Mumbai.  Government Guidelines  Losses from share sales in government-owned  companies  won’t
affect JPMorgan’s profit “significantly” because there’s also
a “huge private sector pipeline” with higher commissions, said
Morparia. “India is making good money for the JP franchise.”  The benchmark  Sensex Index  on the Bombay Stock Exchange has
gained 17.6 percent this year, making it the best performer
among the world’s 10 largest stock markets. Indian companies
raised 753 billion rupees in equity and rights offerings in
2010, 33 percent more than in the same period in 2007, the
record year for domestic equity issuance, Bloomberg data show.  At least 95 companies have lodged draft offer documents
with the securities regulator seeking approval for initial share
sales, according to filings.  In India, “small deals usually pay more for the banks than
being one of five or 10 banks on a large mandate,” Morparia
said.  Don’t Blame System  The government’s selection process isn’t to blame for low
investment-banking fees, Disinvestment Secretary Sumit Bose said
in an interview on Sept. 30. The government tweaked the bidding
process this year to score a bank’s proposal 70 percent on its
technical presentation and 30 percent on its fees.  “This system in no way asks for zero bids or near-zero
bids, it just asks for competitive bids and that’s the way we
would like to proceed,” Bose said.  Morparia said she agrees with that assessment. “The
government’s bidding system is not to blame for near-zero fee
bids. This is a function of intense competition,” she said.  India’s government plans to raise 400 billion rupees from
state share sales in the year through to March 31. It has met 5
percent of that target so far.  The government aims to sell shares in eight companies in
the remaining six months of the fiscal year, starting with  Coal
India Ltd.  Its IPO is expected to raise more than $3 billion,
said people involved in the deal, making it India’s largest.  Twenty banks, including JPMorgan, bid to manage the share
sale, according to disinvestment department notices.  “India is one of the most competitive markets in the
region, and it’s not one of the most profitable,” Morparia
said. “Yet banks want to expand here because the country is
growing at a phenomenal pace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  