-- JPMorgan CMBS Sale Offers Low Spreads, Borrower Lifeline: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-10-07T19:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/jpmorgan-cmbs-sale-offers-low-spreads-borrower-lifeline-credit-markets.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. sold the largest
offering of commercial mortgage-backed securities this year as
Wall Street seeks to chip away at property debt financed before
real estate values plummeted.  The top-ranked 10-year portion yields 150 basis points, or
1.5 percentage points, more than the benchmark swaps rate,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. That
compares with a spread of about 305 basis points on comparable
bonds issued prior to 2008, when underwriting standards were
more lenient, JPMorgan data show.  The market for bonds that bundle commercial property loans
is reviving after shutting down two years ago during the
financial crisis. JPMorgan’s $1.1 billion offering, the seventh
sale this year, signals bank willingness to lend to stronger
borrowers and investor confidence that landlords can meet
monthly payments as the economy recovers, said  James Grady  of
Deutsche Asset Management.  “The recent deals have been well received by investors,”
said  Grady , a managing director in New York at the firm, which
has $240 billion in assets under management, including
commercial-mortgage bonds. “Ten months ago, the comeback seemed
highly unlikely.”  JPMorgan, based in New York, estimates $335 billion of
property loans packaged into bonds will come due through 2015.
Deutsche Bank AG plans to sell $856.6 million of bonds backed by
commercial mortgages, a person familiar with the offering said
today. The securities are tied to 42 loans secured by 63
properties, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t public.  Default Swaps Rise  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt fell 1 basis point to 171 basis points, down
from 180 on Sept. 1, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate index. Average yields were
3.389 percent, the lowest since June 2003.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
rose 0.6 cent to 98.75 cents on the dollar as of 2:47 p.m. in
New York, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  $4.7 billion Sold  Banks have sold $4.7 billion of bonds backed by commercial
mortgages this year, up from $3.4 billion last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales tumbled 95 percent to $11.2
billion in 2008 from a record $234 billion in 2007. Issuance may
reach $35 billion in 2011, S&P said in a Sept. 30 report.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. issued $788.5
million of the securities on Aug. 4. It was the most recent
offering to pool loans from multiple borrowers and included new
features to appease investors as banks attempt to revive the
market. One of the key changes is giving buyers of the highest-
rated portions control of who manages troubled loans, a right
that has historically been held by investors who buy the
riskiest slice.  Investors are showing confidence in property assets, with
the Bloomberg Real Estate Investment Trust  index  showing a total
return of 23.1 percent this year compared with 5.7 percent for
the S&P 500 stock index.  Property Confidence  Three new reports this week showed signs the commercial
real estate market may be beginning to recover.  While U.S office rents fell in the third quarter, the rate
of decline was the slowest since the first three months of 2009.
That suggests demand may be stabilizing even as vacancies hover
at a 17-year high, property research firm Reis Inc. said.  Actual rents paid by office tenants dropped 3.6 percent
from a year earlier to an average of $22.05 a square foot, Reis
said. Prices were little changed from the previous three months’
$22.06 a square foot.  “The pace of deterioration has clearly slowed,” Ryan
Severino, an economist at Reis, said in an Oct. 5 statement.  A day later the New York-based company reported that the
nation’s apartment vacancies dropped for the first time in
almost three years in the third quarter, signaling the trend of
people moving in with family or friends might be abating.  The shopping center sector, which Reis research director
 Victor Calanog  said lags behind improving economic indicators
after a recession, recorded the vacancy rate climbing to 10.9
percent from 10.3 percent a year earlier. The rate was unchanged
from the second quarter, when it reached the highest level since
1991.  Underwriting Standards  In the JPMorgan offering, 49 percent of the bond pool
refinances debt contained in commercial-mortgage backed
securities issued before credit markets seized, Barclays Capital
analysts  Julia Tcherkassova  and  Keerthi Raghavan  wrote in a
report last month.  While tighter underwriting standards and lower values mean
many property owners who borrowed from 2005 to 2007 won’t
qualify for loans banks are writing now, stronger landlords will
be able to refinance, benefiting investors in the older bonds,
Deutsche’s Grady said.  The bonds JPMorgan sold are tied to 30 loans secured by 47
properties, according to the person familiar with the
transaction who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
public. The offering consists of 67 percent retail properties,
15.1 percent in office loans and 10.3 percent industrial loans,
the person familiar with that deal said. Arizona, Florida and
California account for about 44 percent of the pool.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 