-- JPMorgan, Bank of America Face `Hydra' of Foreclosure Probes
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-06T20:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/jpmorgan-bank-of-america-face-hydra-of-state-foreclosure-investigations.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Bank of America
Corp.  and Ally Financial Inc., defending allegations of
fraudulent home foreclosures from customers and Congress, may
face the most financial peril from investigations by state
attorneys general.  Authorities in at least seven states are probing whether
lenders used false documents and signatures to justify hundreds
of thousands of foreclosures, and the number of these inquiries
will grow, according to state officials and legal experts.  “You’re going to see a tremendous amount of activity with
all the AGs in the U.S.,” Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray 
said in an interview. “We have a high degree of skepticism that
the corners that were cut are truly legal.”  Cordray announced today that he filed a lawsuit against
Ally in state court, claiming its GMAC unit committed fraud and
violated state consumer law by filing false affidavits in
foreclosure proceedings.  JPMorgan, Bank of America and Ally have curtailed
foreclosures or evictions in 23 states where courts have
jurisdiction over home seizures.  While homeowners in those states and elsewhere must usually
show damages to win a lawsuit, “attorneys general can just sue
over deceptive sales practices and get penalties,” said
 Christopher Peterson , a University of Utah law professor who
specializes in commercial and contract law.  Ohio Penalties  In Ohio, penalties include fines of up to $25,000 per
violation, with each false affidavit or document considered a
violation, according to state law enforcement officials. In
Iowa, fines rise to a maximum of $40,000 for each violation.  This penalty would apply to “every instance of an
affidavit that was filed improperly or every time facts were
attested to that weren’t true,” Cordray said. His counterpart
in Connecticut,  Richard Blumenthal , has called for a freeze on
foreclosures and said the submissions are a “possible fraud on
the court.”  Officials in Ohio and Connecticut, along with Florida,
Texas, North Carolina, Iowa and Illinois, said they are
investigating mortgage foreclosure practices.  Attorneys general in Colorado and California asked Ally’s
GMAC unit to halt foreclosures in their states. GMAC and
Colorado Attorney General  John W. Suthers  plan to meet to
discuss the matter, said Mike Saccone, spokesman for Suthers.  ‘Talking to Them’  “We’re talking to them,” Jim Finefrock, spokesman for
California Attorney General  Jerry Brown , said in a telephone
interview about Detroit-based Ally.  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  yesterday
asked GMAC, JPMorgan, Bank of America and Wells Fargo & Co. to
suspend foreclosures and evictions in that state.  North Carolina Attorney General  Roy Cooper  said today he
was expanding his investigation into questionable foreclosure
tactics to include 14 more lenders. Cooper, who announced
earlier he was looking into allegations about GMAC, also asked
lenders to stop foreclosures in his state until they can confirm
they are complying with laws.  In addition to the investigation of Ally which began last
month, Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  on Oct. 4 asked 30
loan servicers operating in his state -- including Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America and New York-based JPMorgan
-- to stop foreclosures pending a review of business practices.
Abbott also asked lenders and servicers to halt “all sales of
properties previously foreclosed upon” and stop all evictions.  Multiple Fronts  Lenders took possession of a record 95,364 U.S. homes in
August and issued foreclosure filings to 338,836 homeowners, or
one of every 381 U.S. households, according to RealtyTrac Inc.,
an Irvine, California-based data seller.  Lenders, loan servicers and even title insurance companies
are facing litigation on multiple fronts, said  Peter Henning , a
law professor at Wayne State University in Detroit and a former
federal prosecutor who worked on cases involving bank fraud.  “This is going to become a hydra,” he said in an
interview. “You’ve got so many potential avenues of liability.
You don’t even know the parameters of this yet.”  Reviews of affidavits and other loan documents that may
have been signed without personal examination by the signers
should be completed in a few weeks, JPMorgan and Bank of America
said last week.  “We believe the accuracy of the factual loan information
contained in the affidavits was not affected by whether or not
the signer had personal knowledge of the precise details,”
JPMorgan said in its statement. “The affidavits were prepared
by appropriate personnel with knowledge of the relevant facts.”  JPMorgan Spokesman  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to comment
further yesterday and a call to  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for Bank
of America, wasn’t immediately returned.  “We don’t believe the procedural errors in these
affidavits led to inappropriate foreclosures,”  Gina Proia , a
spokeswoman for Ally, said in a telephone interview.  Some lenders have acknowledged that employees may have
completed court affidavits without confirming their accuracy. In
December, a GMAC employee said in a deposition in a foreclosure
case filed in West Palm Beach, Florida, that his team of 13
people signed about 10,000 documents a month without verifying
their accuracy.  “My suspicion is that this will wind up being an
industrywide issue,” said Patrick Madigan, an Iowa assistant
attorney general. “Many companies were using robo-signers.”  Iowa Probe  His boss, Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , is
investigating GMAC, JPMorgan, Bank of America and OneWest Bank,
the successor to IndyMac.  “We would intend to pursue any company that is engaged in
this behavior,” Madigan said in an interview.  Homeowners in multiple lawsuits claim lenders have been
using falsified documents to foreclose on homes, at times when
they don’t even hold titles to the properties.  Reports of false affidavits will stall foreclosures for
months and will aid homeowners fighting to retain their
properties, University of Utah’s Peterson said.  “That’s what we’re seeing right now,” he said. “It’s
making it harder to foreclose and recover costs for a bad
loan.”  Lawyers for some homeowners blame Reston, Virginia-based
 Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc. , or MERS, which
handles mortgage transfers between member banks. Multiple
lawsuits claim that the system allows false foreclosures and
muddies ownership of titles. MERS has denied any wrongdoing.  Kentucky Homeowners  In a lawsuit filed on behalf of Kentucky homeowners last
week, plaintiffs claimed banks, MERS and loan servicers filed
mortgages with forged signatures, submitted foreclosure actions
months before they acquired any legal interest in the properties
and falsely claimed to own notes executed with mortgages.  Karmela Lejarde, a spokeswoman for MERS, declined to
comment.  “The banks have to be very concerned about class-action
lawsuits,” Peterson said. “I guarantee there are all sorts of
class-action lawyers brainstorming, trying to figure out ways to
file these lawsuits.”  Borrowers in the average foreclosure case haven’t made a
payment in more than a year, said  Guy Cecala , publisher of
Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry publication. More than 5
million homes are in the process of foreclosure, so millions of
people are living mortgage-free right now, he said.  ‘Screwed Up’ Paperwork  “The question is what kind of deals the plaintiffs’
attorneys will reach with lenders,” Cecala said. “If someone
hasn’t made any mortgage payments in a year, are we really going
to give them a home just because someone screwed up the
paperwork?”  Title insurers will also face -- and file -- lawsuits,
Wayne State’s Henning said.  “If you foreclose on a house and sell it,” the title
should be certain, he said.  Title insurers will be “on the hook if foreclosures are
reopened,” Henning said. “The title insurers will be going
after the banks or whoever assured them there was a clear
title.”  Fidelity National Financial Corp. , the largest U.S. title
insurer, and  First American Financial Co. , the second-largest,
have declined more than 5 percent since Sept. 30 over concerns
that investigations into foreclosures would cause legal problems
affecting title companies. The Standard & Poor’s 500 index of
large U.S. stocks has gained about 1.7 percent in that period.  Adverse Impact  “Questionable foreclosures will ultimately have little
adverse impact” on new owners of properties or title insurance
claims, the  American Land Title Association  said in an Oct. 1
statement.  “If a new homeowner’s title is challenged because of a
faulty foreclosure, the title insurer may have an obligation to
defend the challenge,”  Kurt Pfotenhauer , chief executive
officer of the trade group, said in the release. “However, it
is unlikely that a court will take property from an innocent
current homeowner and return it to a previous homeowner who
failed to make payments.”  Individuals who signed false affidavits or falsely claimed
clear titles to properties can be subject to criminal
prosecution, including perjury charges, Peterson said.  Corporations would probably face obstruction charges rather
than perjury, according to legal experts.  “Did they know about gaps in the system and lie about
it,” Henning said, referring to companies. “This is certainly
a concern for MERS but it could be, too, for the banks. Any
action of any employee can be looked at, but what they’re
looking at is the volume of transactions and the involvement of
senior level management.”  More civil litigation is a certainty, Henning said.  “The sandstorm is coming,” he said. “You can see it off
in the distance and know it’s about to hit, but no one knows how
long it’s going to last.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  and;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 