-- Kerviel Says He Feels `Crushed' by $6.8 Billion SocGen Verdict
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-06T09:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/kerviel-says-he-feels-crushed-by-6-8-billion-societe-generale-verdict.html
Jerome Kerviel  said he feels
“crushed by the weight of the punishment,” in his first
interview after being sentenced to three years in jail and
ordered to repay  Societe Generale SA  for its 4.9 billion-euro
($6.8 billion) trading loss.  Judge Dominique Pauthe yesterday held Kerviel solely
responsible for the loss, saying he deceived the bank in
amassing 50 billion euros in futures positions. He found Kerviel
guilty on all three counts: breach of trust, forging documents
and computer hacking.  “I have the feeling like they want to make me pay for
all,” Kerviel told  Europe1  radio today. The former trader will
remain free pending his appeal. In the meantime, he said he’ll
continue working as a computer consultant, a job he took after
being fired from France’s  second largest  bank in 2008.  The trading loss, announced Jan. 24, 2008, prompted Societe
Generale’s then-chief executive officer  Daniel Bouton  to
describe Kerviel as a “terrorist.” The court rejected defense
arguments his superiors knew of his actions and that the bank’s
decision to unwind the bets over three days of falling markets
caused the loss.  In a separate interview on  RMC  radio today, government
spokesman Luc Chatel was asked whether Societe Generale should
renounce a part of the damages award.  “The new communications director, perhaps, could suggest
it to the president,” Chatel said. The court “took into
account all the parameters, that’s to say the size of the fraud,
the damage caused and, I imagine, the consequences of the
punishment.”  “My first thought was for my father and for my mother,”
Kerviel said, when asked in the radio interview about his
initial reaction to the verdict.  Europe1 asked Kerviel if he had irritated the judges by
being “arrogant” and “cynical” during the trial. “I don’t
think I was,” he responded.  The judges asked Kerviel to enunciate and stop using jargon
several times during the three-week trial in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 