-- Kohl's to Boost Holiday Hires More Than 20% on Demand Uptick
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-10-06T14:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/kohl-s-to-boost-holiday-hires-more-than-20-on-demand-uptick.html
Kohl’s Corp. , the fourth-largest U.S.
department store chain, plans to hire about 40,000 people this
holiday season, 21 percent more than last year, to prepare for a
projected uptick in sales.  The employees will work in the company’s 1,089 stores, as
well as distribution centers and credit operations, the
Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin-based company said in a statement
today. In 2009, Kohl’s hired 33,310 seasonal employees.  “There are two things at work here,”  Richard Jaffe ,
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “One is optimism for the fourth quarter,
but they may have also cut the full-time staff so close to the
bone that just to stay in the game, they need to build up a
disproportionate amount of part-time help.” He recommends
holding the shares.  Kohl’s  rose 5 cents to $52.65 at 10:03 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had fallen 2.5
percent this year before today.  U.S. retailers could add as many as 650,000 jobs this
holiday season, 30 percent more than last year, Colleen Madden,
a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based employment firm Challenger,
Gray & Christmas, said in an e-mail today.  U.S. holiday retail sales will climb 2.3 percent, for the
best season in four years, as customers lured by promotions
purchase apparel and electronics, the National Retail Federation
said today. Holiday sales rose 0.4 percent last year after a 3.9
percent drop in 2008.  Temporary Stores  Toys ‘R’ Us Inc.,  the world’s biggest toy retailer, said
last month it plans to hire about 45,000 employees to cope with
demand during the holiday season. About 10,000 of the positions
will be available at the Wayne, New Jersey-based company’s 600
or so Toys ‘R’ Us Express temporary stores.  Best Buy Co.,  the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, said it would hire 29,000 employees, the same as last
year.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,  the world’s largest retailer, will
also hire about as many holiday workers as last year, said
spokesman  Greg Rossiter  in an e-mail.  Many retailers, including Kohl’s, will release September
sales results tomorrow, which could provide a window into
holiday shopping patterns, according to analysts like Deutsche
Bank’s New York-based  Bill Dreher .  “Sales during the August and September back to school
period were strong enough to allay investor fears that consumers
might retrench just as retailers begin to move into the critical
holiday selling season,” Dreher said in an Oct. 3 note to
clients.  Kohl’s Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Mansell  told investors
at a conference last month that the company’s sales during the
back-to-school period were “solid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 