-- Korean Won Rises as Risk of More U.S. Quantitative Easing Weighs on Dollar
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-06T01:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/korean-won-rises-as-risk-of-more-u-s-quantitative-easing-weighs-on-dollar.html
South Korea’s won rose to a five-
month high on speculation the Federal Reserve will join the Bank
of Japan in stepping up purchases of government debt, a move
that would boost the supply of dollars.  The won led gains among Asian currencies and the  Kospi 
stock index climbed to its highest level since 2007 as overseas
investors bought more Korean shares than they sold for a 16th day.
The greenback traded near an eight-month low versus the euro
before reports this week forecast to show applications for U.S.
unemployment benefits rose and the jobless rate climbed.  “The Fed is readying the market for more quantitative
easing, and it is expected to be negative for the U.S. dollar,”
said  Douglas Borthwick , managing director and head of foreign-
exchange trading at Stamford, Connecticut-based Faros Trading
LLC. “That is now leading investors into currencies that are
expected to appreciate, currencies with a growth story. Korea is
a prime example of a country that has those characteristics.”  The won was 0.7 percent stronger at 1,122.60 per dollar as
of 9:45 a.m. in Seoul, having earlier touched a five-month high
of 1,118.70, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency gained 8.7 percent in the past three months, Asia’s
best performance.  Japan’s decision yesterday to buy $60 billion of assets and
cut its benchmark interest rate to stimulate growth bolstered
optimism the Fed will follow suit and boost Treasury
purchases to strengthen the U.S. recovery. New York Fed
President William Dudley said on Oct. 1 that the central bank
has the “tools that can provide additional stimulus at costs
that do not appear to be prohibitive.”  Government Audit  The won yesterday dropped the most in six weeks after the
Korean government announced plans to audit banks’ foreign-
exchange trading, spurring concern that regulators were clamping
down on bets the currency will appreciate.  “There is still fear in the market after yesterday’s
announcement,” said  Ko Yun Jin , a currency trader at Kookmin
Bank in Seoul.  South Korea’s government bonds were little changed, with
the yield on the 3.75 percent debt due June 2013 holding steady
at 3.29 percent, according to Korea Stock Exchange. It ended
last week at 3.27 percent, the lowest level since the notes were
issued in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 