-- Kwa, Wife of Singapore's Lee Kuan Yew, Makes Final Voyage on Gun Carriage
-- B y   L a r s   K l e m m i n g
-- 2010-10-06T11:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/kwa-wife-of-singapore-s-lee-kuan-yew-makes-final-voyage-on-gun-carriage.html
The late  Kwa Geok Choo , wife of
Singapore’s first prime minister,  Lee Kuan Yew , made her final
voyage on a ceremonial gun carriage to her funeral service as
Singaporeans gathered to mourn her death.  In his eulogy at the private funeral service at Mandai
Crematorium today, Lee said that “without her, I would be a
different man, with a different life.” Lee, 87, had been
admitted to Singapore General Hospital on Sept. 29 for treatment
of a chest infection.  Kwa, also the mother of the island-nation’s current prime
minister,  Lee Hsien Loong , died in her home on Oct. 2, aged 89.
She underwent surgery in May 2008 following a stroke and
suffered a massive hemorrhage a month later.  The honor of using the ceremonial gun carriage for her
final voyage was accorded “in recognition of her exceptional
and unique contributions to Singapore for more than five decades,
beginning before Singapore became independent,” the Prime
Minister’s Office said in a  statement  yesterday.  “I and my family have been deeply touched by the
outpouring of condolences and fond recollections from people of
all walks of life,” Prime Minister Lee said in his eulogy.
“Thousands turned up at Sri Temasek to pay their respects.
Mama’s children and our spouses stood beside her to acknowledge
and thank them all, just as Mama had stood beside us so many
times before.” Sri Temasek is the prime minister’s official
residence.  Three Children  Kwa first met Lee in the late 1930s when they studied in
Raffles Institution, where she was the only girl in an all-boys
high school. At Raffles College several years later, they
competed for the Queen’s Scholarship, which allowed recipients
to study at either Cambridge or Oxford universities.  She married Lee in December 1947, and they had two sons and
a daughter. She was regularly seen accompanying her husband at
state events and overseas visits.  Their elder son was sworn in as Singapore’s third prime
minister six years ago, replacing  Goh Chok Tong , who took over
as premier in 1990. Lee now has the role of minister mentor.  Kwa first suffered a stroke in 2003 while on a trip to
Europe with her husband. She recovered and subsequently joined
Lee on official overseas visits.  She was bedridden after her second stroke in 2008 and could
no longer accompany Lee on trips and to social functions in the
city state, daughter Lee Wei Ling wrote in a June 20 Sunday
Times column. Lee would spend about two hours after returning
from work with his wife telling her about his day and reading
her favorite poems aloud, she wrote.  “I should find solace at her 89 years of her life well
lived,” the elder Lee said in the text of his eulogy. “But at
this moment of the final parting, my heart is heavy with
sadness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lars Klemming  in Singapore at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Collins at 
 collinsc@bloomberg.net  