-- N.Z. Dollar Declines on Lower Milk Prices; Australia's Near Two-Year High
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-10-06T02:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/n-z-dollar-declines-on-lower-milk-prices-australia-s-near-two-year-high.html
The New Zealand dollar dropped
against all of its 16 major counterparts as a decline in milk
powder prices pointed to lower demand for one of the nation’s
key exports.  The so-called kiwi slipped from near the strongest in 10
months after Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. said
milk powder for December delivery fell to a two-month low. The
Australian dollar traded close to a two-year high as gains in
stocks and commodities supported demand for growth-sensitive
currencies.  “This is not going to be a buy-factor for the kiwi as New
Zealand’s recovery has benefited a lot from exporting dairy
products,” said Takuya Kawabata, a researcher in Tokyo at
Gaitame.Com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of Japan’s largest
foreign-exchange margin company.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, fell to 74.61
U.S. cents as of 3:45 p.m. in Wellington from 74.93 cents in New
York yesterday. It touched 74.99 cents yesterday, the strongest
level since November 2009. The currency declined to 62.08 yen
from 62.36 yen.  Australia’s currency traded at 96.96 U.S. cents from 97.17
cents. It touched 97.51 U.S. cents on Oct. 1, the highest level
since July 2008. The Aussie was at 80.66 yen from 80.87 yen.  Fonterra accounts for about 40 percent of the global trade
in butter, milk powder and cheese. Milk powder for December
delivery fell to $3,549 a metric ton, according to Fonterra’s
trade-weighted price index after its latest GlobalDairyTrade
auction.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  of regional shares rose 1.1
percent. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 1.8 percent and
the Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials advanced 1.6
percent yesterday.  Fed’s Outlook  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week that the
central bank’s first round of large-scale asset purchases that
ended in March improved the economy and that further buying is
likely to help more. New York Fed President  William Dudley  said
on Oct. 1 that the central bank has the “tools that can provide
additional stimulus at costs that do not appear to be
prohibitive.”  The Reserve Bank of Australia yesterday left its benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 4.5 percent for a fifth-straight
month, contrary to predictions of most economists polled by
Bloomberg News who expected a quarter-point increase.  Consumer Caution  “The Fed is still likely to pump billions of billions of
dollars into the system,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. “All that
liquidity has to find a place. Some of that will stay in the
U.S. and some of that will inevitably try to find a better yield
somewhere. Part of that will be the Aussie dollar.”  Australia’s consumers and companies are showing more
caution than before the global financial crisis, even as a
mining boom stokes the nation’s economy, a central bank official
said.  “Our reading of recent data is that the Australian
household and business sectors have, in aggregate, entered a
phase of expansion,”  Luci Ellis , head of financial stability at
the Reserve Bank of Australia, said in prepared remarks in
Brisbane today. “But they seem to be showing more financial
caution than they did prior to the crisis.”  The yield on Australia’s 10-year note was little changed at
5 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. New
Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, rose to 3.74 percent from 3.72 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 