-- National Bank of Pakistan's Raza Says Flood Damage to Increase Bad Loans
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2010-10-06T11:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/national-bank-of-pakistan-s-raza-says-bad-loans-to-rise-on-flood-aftermath.html
National Bank of Pakistan , the lender
with the highest delinquency ratio, faces an increase in loan
failures after the worst flooding in the country’s history
damaged farmland in areas where the bank lends.  “There will certainly be some impact on non-performing
loans,”  Syed Ali Raza , the bank’s president, said in an
interview in Karachi. “The impact will be containable but it
will be there.”  Flooding may hamper the bank’s five-year target to recover
80 percent of the non-performing loans that have been provided
for, as about a quarter of its lending is to farmers. Pakistan’s
central bank said in August that it will ease rules for banks to
help support growth in flood-hit areas adding there will be
“substantial” increase in loan delinquencies.  Record monsoon rains caused flooding that left almost 2,000
people dead and 20 million homeless. Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani  estimates crop losses at $3.3 billion, total damage
of about $7 billion and said the disaster may shave 2 percentage
points off economic growth this year.  “With around 25 percent of its total lending to
agriculture related business, it will be a real challenge for
National Bank to register growth in profit,” said  Abdul Shakur ,
a research analyst at BMA Capital Management Ltd. in Karachi. He
estimates a 22 percent decline in National Bank’s profit in
2010.  Shares Fell  National Bank fell 0.2 percent to 62.77 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. local time close on the  Karachi Stock Exchange . The stock
has advanced 5.5 percent  this year .  The bank’s net income rose to 3.63 billion rupees ($42
million) in the quarter ended June 30, from 2 billion rupees a
year ago. Profit in the year ended Dec. 31 rose 15 percent to
18.1 billion after falling 19 percent in 2008.  The bank cut non-performing loans during the first half of
the year by 4 percent to 69.7 billion rupees. It has 55 billion
rupees worth of non-performing loans that have been provided
for, according to Raza, 60.  Pakistan’s non-performing loans rose 15 percent during the
year ended June 30 to 459.8 billion rupees according to the
central bank. There were 210 billion rupees of non-performing
loans in the banking system in 2004.  Discount Rate  “The flood losses and the discount rate rise may limit the
ability of borrowers to return loans,” said  Muhammad Imran ,
head of research at Arif Habib Investment Ltd. in Karachi.
“Banks may be asked to reschedule and ease terms.”  Pakistan’s  central ban k in its monetary policy review on
Sept. 29 raised its benchmark interest rate for the second time
in two months to 13.5 percent to cool inflation after the floods
washed away crops, roads and bridges.  “Given the likely impact of the recent floods, ongoing
challenging economic environment, power shortages and security
situation in the country, the increased portfolio of non-
performing loans and heightened credit risk remain the major
challenge for the banking system,” the central bank said in an
e-mailed statement today.  While there were immediate losses from floods largely in
the agriculture sector, there is a positive side to the disaster
as it has refreshed farmland across the country, Raza said. The
yield from those farms is likely to improve with better, more
fertile soil and availability of water in the next season, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 