-- Neste Oil Says Biofuels to Be Made in Singapore, to Provide Third of Ebit
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 2010-10-06T10:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/neste-oil-deputy-chief-says-singapore-diesel-plant-very-close-to-starting.html
Neste Oil Oyj  will soon begin making
low-emissions diesel at a 550 million-euro ($762 million) plant
in Singapore, ramping up production of renewable fuels that may
provide a third of earnings after 2012, a company official said.  “We’re very close to start-up,”  Jarmo Honkamaa , deputy
chief executive officer of Neste Oil, Finland’s only petroleum
refiner, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We’re well
on time and within the budget” for the project, which uses
plant and animal products as feedstock.  Neste is investing more than 1 billion euros together in
the Singapore plant and a second one to open in Rotterdam next
year as it banks on government mandates in Europe and North
America to boost sales of “clean” diesel, which pollutes less
than petroleum-based diesel fuel.  After 2012, biofuels may contribute a third of Espoo-based
Neste’s earnings before interest and tax, or Ebit, Honkamaa
said. “The renewable fuels business has this year not
contributed anything to the bottom line, because it has been
negative numbers,” he said.  Honkamaa’s estimate is reasonable and represents a return
on investment of about 15 percent in 2013,  Antti Koskivuori , an
analyst at Evli Bank in Helsinki with a “reduce” rating on the
stock, said in an interview.  “They’re expecting the difference in price between
renewable diesel and palm oil to be similar on average to where
it´s been in the past three to five years,” Koskivuori said.  Most of the raw materials for the Singapore plant --
initially palm oil and later also animal fats -- have been
contracted already, with a mixture of 2- to 3-year, 1-year and
3-month agreements reached, the executive said, declining to
name the providers. A similar mix of sales agreements for the
finished product is set, he said.  ‘Gradual Ramp-Up’  “It will be a gradual ramp-up of production,” Honkamaa
said. “In the first month we’ll get to around half of maximum
capacity, and in the second month we will be getting close to
the full capacity” of 800,000 metric tons a year. Honkamaa
declined to say what date production will begin.  The plant in Rotterdam, which will have the same volume as
the Singapore refinery, is on course to open “by next summer”
and will come in “some tens of millions of euros below” its
original price tag of 670 million euros, he said.  The markets first will be mainly in Europe and then in
North America, Honkamaa said. “We may have some deliveries this
year but significant volumes will come next year.”  Going forward, Honkamaa said he expects markets in Asia to
grow as well as California.  “We are talking with some of the players in the Asian
market. Japan is an interesting market, maybe South Korea,” he
said. “We’d love to see some volume staying in Singapore, and
in the longer term China is interesting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 