-- New Jersey Lawmaker Wants to Shut Agency Inspired by `On the Waterfront'
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-10-06T15:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/new-jersey-lawmaker-wants-to-shut-agency-inspired-by-on-the-waterfront-.html
A  New Jersey  state senator said he
wants to abolish the  Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor ,
an agency chartered more than 50 years ago to fight corruption
and crime in the shipping industry.  Senator  Ray Lesniak , a Democrat from Union, said he will
introduce a bill tomorrow that would disband the bi-state
commission and re-direct its law-enforcement functions and
oversight of employment to the  Port Authority of New York & New
Jersey . The Port Authority operates the region’s three major
airports, bridges, tunnels and the PATH train.  The shipping industry has changed since the agency was
formed in 1953 to address the type of corruption portrayed in
the Oscar-winning 1954 film  “On the Waterfront,”  Lesniak said.
The film starring  Marlon Brando  was based on a 24-part series by
New York Sun reporter Malcolm Johnson, which won the  Pulitzer
Prize  in 1949.  “It’s outlived its usefulness,” Lesniak said today in an
interview. “No other waterfront commission exists because it’s
an industry that has changed dramatically. We now have
international, publicly traded corporations and we have
technology in place to easily monitor” operations at the Port
of New York & New Jersey, he said.  The Waterfront Commission provides law enforcement and
oversees stevedoring companies in the port, which handled 3.6
million container units in 2009, down 12.7 percent from the
previous year, according to its  annual report . Executive
Director Walter M. Arsenault said the agency has a budget of $11
million that is funded through a 2.5 percent assessment on
payrolls of stevedoring companies that use the port.  Cocaine Bust  Nine longshoremen were charged yesterday with conspiring to
import 1.3 metric tons of cocaine valued at more than $34
million and running a “pump and dump” stock scheme that
defrauded investors of $7 million, according to a  statement  from
federal prosecutors, the Drug Enforcement Agency and the
Waterfront Commission.  “Organized crime definitely has a presence at the
waterfront,” Arsenault said in a telephone interview. “There
is a need for the Waterfront Commission and the law-enforcement
functions we handle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  