-- New York State Pension Fund Trails Other Plans Over Five Years, Data Show
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-10-06T17:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/new-york-state-pension-trails-comparable-funds-amidst-election-year-battle.html
The investment performance of  New
York  state’s $124.8 billion pension fund lagged behind that
of retirement plans with more than $5 billion in assets
during the past five years, data show.  The plan, the nation’s third-biggest, returned an average
4.16 percent a year from March 2005 to March 2010, according to
the  annual report  posted on its website Sept. 30. That fell
below the 4.51 percent median for public funds with assets above
$5 billion, according to consulting firm  Wilshire Associates .  New York state’s fund, which covers about 1 million current
and retired government workers, also trailed its own benchmarks
for investments in stocks and real estate, the annual report
shows. Investment results led by a 26 percent loss in the
year ended March 31, 2009, will require the state and local
governments to pay 16.3 percent of payroll to the fund in 2012,
more than double the rate two years earlier.  “We don’t think of funds over $5 billion as our peers,”
said  Dennis Tompkins , a spokesman for Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli,  the sole trustee for the New York pension plan since
February, 2007. “The fund has done as well as or better over
any period of time than the California funds, which are the only
ones of our size.”  In the year ended March 31, New York’s 26 percent gain was
less than the 33 percent of other  funds  in the Wilshire study
and during the past three years its 1.68 percent annual decline
was worse than the 1.05 percent loss of other funds. In the past
10 years its 3.75 percent return exceeded the 3.56 percent
average.  Calpers’ Return  The California Public Employees Retirement Fund, the
nation’s largest with $207.3 billion of assets,  reported  a 24.9
percent return for the year ended March 31. Its annualized loss
of 3.2 percent over three years and gains of 3.5 percent for
five years and 3.1 percent for 10 years also lagged behind the
New York fund.  Investments in U.S. stocks, the biggest part of the fund at
39 percent, trailed the  Russell 3000 index  by 0.74 percent in
the 12 months to March 31, and smaller amounts over three and
five years. The New York fund beat the index during 10 years.
The performance of international stocks, 16 percent of assets,
lagged behind the benchmark for every time period reported, with
the largest difference in the past year.  Real estate investments were the weakest performing part of
the fund with, annual losses of 27.8 percent the past year and
0.1 percent over five years, compared with the National Council
of Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries benchmark’s loss of 16.9
percent the past year and annual gain of 4.8 percent the past
five years.  Election Issue  The investment performance of the New York fund has been an
issue before November’s election, when DiNapoli, a Democrat,
faces  Harry Wilson , a Republican.                        “The New York fund has underperformed under DiNapoli and
that has added to the burden of taxpayers” Wilson said in an
interview.  Wilson, a Wall Street executive at  Blackstone Group LP  and
Silver Point Capital, was a member President Barack Obama’s auto
industry task force where he helped restructure General Motors
as it prepared to emerge from bankruptcy.  In a televised debate with DiNapoli earlier this week, he
said his investment experience would help him manage the pension
fund. DiNapoli criticized Wilson’s experience, saying Wall
Street “values” pushed the economy into recession and hurt the
pension fund.  Cuomo’s Probe  DiNapoli, an 11-term Democratic assemblyman from Long
Island, was elected comptroller in 2007 by state lawmakers over
the objections of then-Governor  Eliot Spitzer , who said he
wasn’t qualified. He filled the job left vacant by  Alan Hevesi ,
who resigned after pleading guilty to using state employees to
chauffeur his ill wife.                      Since Hevesi left office, a probe by Attorney General
 Andrew Cuomo  into corruption involving the selection of
investment managers has led at least six people to plead guilty
to criminal charges, including  David Loglisci,  the former chief
investment officer.  Cuomo, who is running for governor, has recommended
replacing the comptroller as sole trustee with a board of
trustees to run the pension plan.  The New York fund reduced the assumed rate of return on its
investments to 7.5 percent from 8 percent as it recovers from
market losses, DiNapoli said last month. “The  markets  have
become much more challenging over the past decade, which
justifies a sensible reduction in the assumed investment rate of
return,” he said in a statement.  The assumed rate of return on investments is used to
calculate the size of pension contributions from employers
needed to pay retirees. The recommendation to lower the rate
came from the pension fund’s actuary, Michael Dutcher.  Employer contributions to the plan are expected to rise to
20.3 percent of salary in the year ending March 2013 and 23.5
percent in the following year, according to the state  budget .
Those estimates were compiled before the reduction in the
assumed rate of return.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  