-- New York City Pension Fund Settles Apple Option Backdating Class Action
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-10-06T21:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/new-york-city-pension-fund-says-it-settles-apple-class-action.html
Apple Inc.  has agreed to pay $16.5
million to settle a class action suit by the New York City
Employees’ Retirement System that the company improperly
backdated stock options between 2001 and 2006, the city said in
a statement.  Apple will return $14 million to shareholders and
contribute a total of $2.5 million to corporate governance
programs at various U.S. universities, including Harvard, Yale
and Columbia, the city Comptroller’s office and Law Department
said in a statement.  Administrative and attorneys’ fees of $4 million will be
paid separately by Apple, the statement said, bringing the total
value of the settlement over $20 million.  “This settlement is an excellent example of shareholder
advocacy and compensates shareholders for systemic options
backdating at the company,” Corporation Counsel  Michael A. Cardozo , the city’s chief legal officer and counsel to the
city’s pension funds, said in the statement. “We are happy to
have reached an accord with Apple after four years of
litigation.”  Steve Dowling , a spokesman for Apple, said in a telephone
interview that Apple and the city’s pension system “agreed to
resolve their dispute in order to avoid lengthy and costly
litigation.” He said the company was “glad to put this matter
behind us.”  The city will seek preliminary approval of the settlement
in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
tomorrow, the statement said.  Those eligible for distributions from the settlement fund
purchased Apple common stock at a price in excess of $65.71
between Aug. 24, 2001, and June 29, 2006, the statement said.  The New York City Employees’ Retirement System, the court-
appointed lead plaintiff in the class action, is the largest
municipal public employee retirement system in the country with
more than 300,000 active members and retirees.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Karen Freifeld  at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  