-- New World Development Profit Surges on Rises in Investments, Home Sales
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-10-06T08:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/new-world-development-profit-jumps-on-property-sales-rental-in-hong-kong.html
New World Development Co.,  the Hong
Kong developer controlled by billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung , said
full-year profit rose more than five times after earnings from
investment properties and apartment sales increased.  Net income jumped to HK$11.6 billion ($1.5 billion), or
HK$2.88 a share, from HK$2.08 billion, or HK$0.53 per share, a
year earlier, the company said in a statement to Hong Kong’s
stock exchange today. Sales rose to HK$30.2 billion from HK$24.4
billion.  New World is tapping a recovery in the city’s commercial
rents by shifting its focus to investment properties from
apartment sales, Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  Anil Daswani 
wrote in a Sept. 15 report. The company manages the Hong Kong
Convention and Exhibition Centre and holds Hong Kong’s Grand
Hyatt and the Manning Building.  “The shift will be quite valuable to New World,” wrote
the analysts, who have a “buy” rating on the company. “It
will help decrease earnings volatility from lumpy property sales
and create steadier, recurrent cash flows.”  Prime office rents in the city jumped 10.4 percent in the
third quarter from the previous quarter and are expected to rise
a further 5 percent by the year-end, property broker DTZ said in
a report.  The company closed its New World Centre in Tsim Sha Tsui in
the first quarter to redevelop it into a 63-story office and
shopping mall complex. The project will take at least five years
to complete, New World said in February.  The company reported gross rental income in Hong Kong of
HK$1.2 billion, without giving a comparable figure.  Shares Rise  New World  shares  have gained 4.6 percent this year,
compared with the 12 percent increase in  Hang Seng Property
Index  which tracks seven of the city’s developers that doesn’t
include New World. The stock rose 4.9 percent, its biggest gain
since Sept. 6, to HK$16.70 at the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong,
after earnings were announced.  The company will pay a final dividend of 28 Hong Kong cents
a share, compared with 21 Hong Kong cents a year earlier.  Hong Kong developers have been benefiting from the 48
percent  surge  in homes prices since the beginning of 2009.
During the period under review New World sold apartments in The
Masterpiece and Emerald Green projects. Revenue from property
sales jumped to HK$12.6 billion from HK$2.1 billion, the company
said.  Profit  excluding revaluation gains and other gains was
HK$6.08 billion, a 72.4 percent increase from a year earlier,
the company said.  Roads, Telecommunications  The city’s builders begin selling units while property
projects are still in construction and book revenue upon
completion.  The builder also invests in roads, power generation,
transportation, telecommunications and retailing. Chairman Cheng
is Hong Kong’s fourth-richest person, according to Forbes
Magazine rankings, with an estimated wealth of $6.8 billion.  NWS Holdings Ltd. , New World’s 39 percent-owned services
and infrastructure arm, said yesterday full-year profit rose to
HK$4.01 billion from HK$2.53 billion a year earlier.  Shares of NWS Holdings rose 10.9 percent, its biggest gain
since April 2009, to close at HK$18.54 today, after climbing 7.2
percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  