-- Nexans Looks at China, Middle East for Acquisitions as Europe Stagnates
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-10-06T13:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/nexans-looks-at-china-middle-east-for-acquisitions-as-europe-stagnates.html
Nexans SA , the world’s biggest maker
of cables and wires, is considering buying companies in China
and the Middle East to supply growing power-grid markets as
construction in Europe stagnates.  “We’re looking at making high-voltage cables in China,”
either through a takeover or by setting up a plant, Chief
Executive Officer  Frederic Vincent  said in an interview. A new
factory in Qatar “is at the heart of Nexans’s plans to expand
in emerging markets and become stronger in energy-infrastructure
products.”  Nexans, whose competitors include  Prysmian SpA  and  General
Cable Corp. , is seeking to restore profit  margins  after the
recession prompted it to close plants. Nexans is also trying to
sell more expensive and complex cables to the car, plane and
oil-and-gas industries and utilities to fend off Chinese and
 South Korean  rivals.  “Our balance sheet could withstand more debt” if the
company needs to fund an acquisition, Vincent, 55, said in the
interview yesterday at the manufacturer’s Paris headquarters.
Any takeover would need to boost earnings in one or two years,
he said.  The company’s most recent acquisitions include Santiago,
Chile-based Madeco for $822 million and Milan-based Intercond
SpA for 90 million euros ($125 million), both in 2008. Prysmian,
the world’s second-biggest maker of cables, and the main
shareholders in  Draka Holding NV , Europe’s third-biggest, failed
to agree on a merger last year.  Acquisition Limits  The scale of any acquisition by Nexans would be limited
until economic growth accelerates and competitors become more
interested in combining, Vincent said.  “The conditions for a transformational acquisition aren’t
being met,” the CEO said. “Nexans remains committed to
consolidating the industry, though not at any cost.”  Nexans will be able to decide on its Chinese investment
before mid-2011, Vincent said. The French company gets about 80
million euros in revenue making cables in China for the national
railway and shipbuilders, and about 100 million euros selling
products from Europe, he said.  A new power-cable plant that opened in Qatar earlier this
month will save about 10 percent on selling costs compared with
products that would have been shipped in from Europe, including
import duties of 5 percent, the CEO said.  ‘Resistance’  “We’re trying to become stronger on energy-infrastructure
businesses, which have a much stronger resistance to economic
cycles,” Vincent said. He declined to specify potential
candidates for a takeover.  Full-year earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will total 350 million euros, and  debt  at the end
of June was “low” at 280 million euros, Vincent said. Sales
will be little changed in 2010 from last year, and operating
profit will be about 4.5 percent of revenue in 2010, “or
higher, if the economy gives us a bit of a hand,” Vincent said,
reiterating a forecast from July.  The company “must stick to reasonable acquisition
multiples,” the CEO said. “In the past, we’ve paid 7 times to
7.5 times Ebitda, though that’s not necessarily what we’ll do
tomorrow.”  Nexans held its initial public offering in June 2001, and
the stock has about doubled since then to 55.53 euros today. The
company had a first-half  net loss  of 17 million euros, narrower
than the year-earlier loss of 57 million euros, as it spent
money closing plants in Italy and Brazil and took a 20 million-
euro charge for delays in a high-voltage undersea cable project.  Reorganization  “We’re not planning any extra restructuring in 2010,” and
the submarine-cable delivery slowdown “will be behind us in
2011,” Vincent said. “We’ll keep adapting our industrial base,
as we’ve been doing since our IPO. We’ve spent about 30 million
euros a year on restructuring since the IPO. There will be
restructuring in coming years. That may concern our European
base.”  Next year “will remain a good year for energy
infrastructure,” Vincent said. “It’s too early to make
forecasts for other markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 