-- LNG Capital’s Gargour Seeks $100 Million for Debt Fund
-- B y   K a t e   H a y w o o d
-- 2010-12-10T09:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/lng-capital-s-gargour-seeks-100-million-for-european-high-yield-debt-fund.html
(Corrects fund name in second paragraph of story published
Oct. 6.)  LNG Capital LLP  is raising as much as
$100 million as the London-based hedge fund manager seeks to
invest in European speculative-grade companies that have cut
debt and are now seeking to finance growth.  The LNG Europa Credit Fund will target companies with an
average rating of BB+, one level below investment grade,
according to Chief Investment Officer  Louis Gargour .  Investors poured $480.2 billion into mutual funds that
invest in high-yield debt in the two years ended June 30, more
than went into stock funds during the Internet bubble, according
to the Washington-based  Investment Company Institute . European
borrowers issued a record $49.5 billion of junk bonds this year,
compared with $41.26 billion for the whole of 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This is one of the best times, if not the best time, to
get into credit,” said Gargour, who headed fixed-income
investments at  RAB Capital Plc  before setting up LNG Capital in
2006. “As a result of the recent difficult economic
environment, weaker companies with unsustainable balance sheets
have defaulted, restructured, or been acquired.”  Moody’s Investors Service forecasts the global corporate
default rate will fall to 2.7 percent by year-end, dropping to 2
percent through August 2011, from as high as 13.5 percent in
November 2009. Companies in Europe still have to repay or
refinance more than $150 billion of high-yield borrowing through
2013, according to Standard & Poor’s.  ‘Cheap Funding’  “We are not looking for defaults,” said Gargour.
“Balance sheets have been rebuilt, and the current economic
environment of stable but low growth combined with cheap
funding, is ideal for corporate debt.”  Gargour said he favors high-yield bonds issued by gaming
companies such as  Codere SA , a Spanish operator of bingo clubs
and casinos. He also sees value in the bonds of Eco-bat
Technologies Ltd., Europe’s largest lead producer, and Ineos
Group Ltd., the world’s third-largest chemicals company.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold European
high-yield bonds rather than government debt is at 598 basis
points, compared with 855 basis in June, and down from a peak of
22.91 percentage points in March 2009, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data.  High-yield bonds sold by European companies returned 14.97
percent through the end of the third quarter this year, compared
with 6.59 percent for investment-grade bonds and 5.86 percent
for European Union government bonds, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  High yield, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net  