-- Nigeria to Name Two Banks to Manage $500 Million Eurobond Sale This Month
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-10-06T15:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/nigeria-to-name-two-banks-to-manage-500-million-eurobond-sale-this-month.html
Nigeria, Africa’s most populous
country and top oil producer, plans to appoint two banks this
month to manage the sale of a $500 million 10-year Eurobond, the
Debt Management Office said.  The so-called bookrunners will work with the financial
advisers to “ensure timely completion of the transaction,” the
Abuja-based agency said today in a statement in the  Vanguard 
newspaper. Bids must be submitted by Oct. 13 and the sale should
be completed by the end of the year.  The issue, Nigeria’s first Eurobond, will act as a
benchmark so that local companies can price their debt
accordingly, Finance Minister  Olusegun Aganga  said in London on
Sept. 3. Sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest economy after South
Africa plans to use funds from the sale to develop roads,
railways, hospitals and schools and reduce dependence on oil
exports. Oil accounts for more than 80 percent of government
revenue, according to the Finance Ministry.  Nigeria appointed Barclays Capital and Lagos-based FBN
Capital Ltd. as advisers for the sale, Okwudili Ojukwu-Enendu,
spokesman for Aganga, said by phone on Oct. 4. White & Case LLP,
based in London, and Lagos-based Banwo & Ighodalo, are to
provide legal advice, according to the debt-management agency.  Oversubscription Likely  Foreign investor interest in the Eurobond has been strong,
with some investors asking Nigeria to increase the size to $1
billion, Aganga said last month.  The issue will probably be “oversubscribed given global
excess liquidity and appetite for risky assets,”  Samir Gadio , a
London-based emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Plc,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Nigeria’s still-
sizeable foreign reserves and marginal external debt will
probably be factored in by the market.”  The reserves stood at $34.6 billion as of Oct. 4, the
Central Bank of Nigeria said on its website. Its  external debt 
was $4.27 billion on June 30, 90.4 percent of which was borrowed
at concessionary rates from institutions such as the Washington
-based World Bank and the African Development Bank in Tunisia,
according to data on the DMO website.  Nigeria is rated BB- by Fitch Ratings, the third-highest
non-investment grade rating, and B+ by Standard & Poor’s, or
four levels below investment grade.  The West African country was forced to postpone the sale
two years ago as a result of the global financial crisis in the
international capital markets, the debt office said in a
statement on its website today, dated Oct. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 