-- Nissan Agrees to Provide Gas-Powered 5-Door for Penske's Smart Next Year
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-10-06T20:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/nissan-to-provide-larger-five-door-smart-car-for-u-s-distributor-penske.html
Nissan Motor Co.  will provide a five-
door small car for  Penske Automotive Group Inc.’s  Smart car-
distribution business as sales of the brand’s one model have
fallen by more than half this year.  The new, larger Smart car will be gasoline-powered and go
on sale in the fourth quarter of 2011, the company said today in
a statement. At 8 feet, 10 inches (2.7 meters) long, the current
Fortwo is more than 3 feet shorter than  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG’s  Mini and 7 feet shorter than  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s Camry.  “We’ve had a lot of requests from our owners and from the
marketplace to have a vehicle that offers just a little bit more
seating capacity,”  Jill Lajdziak , president of Smart USA, said
in a telephone interview. The hatchback will be about 42 inches
longer than the Fortwo and seat five people, she said.  Fortwo’s U.S. sales fell 48 percent to 422 last month. For
the year, deliveries plunged 62 percent to 4,779 through
September. Industrywide new light-vehicle sales rose 10 percent
in the first nine months, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  “When gas was over $4 a gallon in 2008, the Smart
performed exceptionally well,” Lajdziak said. “A lot of things
changed after the first 12 to 18 months in the business between
fuel economy and the overall economy.”  Development Costs  Smart USA expects about $25 million in development,
engineering and tooling costs for the new car, according to a
regulatory filing today from Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based
Penske. That includes $1.5 million expensed for the third
quarter.  The Fortwo is made by  Daimler AG , the Stuttgart, Germany-
based automaker best known for its Mercedes-Benz line. Daimler
and the  Renault SA-Nissan  auto alliance agreed in April to share
development costs, engines and small-car technologies for models
such as the Renault Twingo and Smart subcompacts.  “We are proud to be a partner with both Daimler and
Nissan, two companies focused on bringing high-quality, fuel-
efficient products to the U.S. market,” Chairman  Roger Penske 
said today in the statement.  The new Smart is expected to be built by Nissan in North
America, Lajdziak said. The specific location for assembly is
being studied by Nissan, she said.  The car will be a B-class size like  Honda Motor Co.’s  Fit,
Toyota’s Yaris and Ford Motor Co.’s Fiesta. Pricing for the
Smart will be decided closer to when the car goes on sale,
Lajdziak said.  The 2010 Fit starts at  $14,900 , the 2010 four-door Yaris
starts at  $13,915  and the Fiesta begins at $13,995, according to
the automakers’ websites.  Not Saturn  Penske ended talks to buy  General Motors Co. ’s Saturn
division in September 2009 after Renault dropped plans to
provide vehicles for the Saturn brand. GM closed Saturn after
Renault’s board rejected an agreement Penske said it reached
with management.  A Penske Automotive Group unit, Smart USA Distributor LLC,
has exclusive distribution rights in about 75 U.S. dealerships.  Penske fell 12 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $13.23 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
dropped 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Koenig  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at  