-- Nokia Plots U.S. Comeback With N8 Smartphone, Simpler App Tools
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-10-06T13:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/nokia-plots-u-s-comeback-with-n8-smartphone-simpler-tools-to-create-apps.html
Nokia Oyj’s effort to regain lost
U.S. market share hinges on convincing software developers its
new high-end smartphone can compete with Apple and Samsung for
holiday shoppers, Executive Vice President  Tero Ojanpera  said.  Holding the new N8 touch-screen phone in a San Francisco
hotel, Ojanpera said delivering simple tools for creating games
like the popular “Angry Birds” will help Nokia become more
relevant to U.S. consumers and overcome  Apple Inc. ’s dominance.  The N8 will change U.S. shoppers’ views that Nokia devices,
which use the Symbian operating system, aren’t as fun or easy to
use as Apple’s or products with  Google Inc. ’s Android software,
Ojanpera said in an interview. The world’s biggest handset
maker, Nokia has a 38 percent share of the smartphone market,
researcher  Canalys  said. Its total U.S. market share is 7.8
percent, according to  ComScore Inc .  “What’s hot in the U.S. today will change,” said
Ojanpera, who oversees Espoo, Finland-based Nokia’s location,
messaging, entertainment and context-based services. “There’s
already talk in the U.S. about Android passing Apple. The good
news is change happens and winning ultimately is about
responding to the consumers’ needs.”  “Angry Birds,” made by a Finnish company, became an
instant hit on Apple’s iPhone. Users control a flock of birds
that metes out revenge on the green pigs stealing their eggs.  While games generate buzz, consumer and business
applications and services will be a crucial theme at the  CTIA 
wireless-industry conference opening today in San Francisco.
Handset makers are attempting to distinguish themselves by
delivering a range of applications for work and play.  New Features  Nokia is trying to win market share in the smartphone
category by integrating features of its online  Ovi store , which
include music, apps and maps, to offer services such as local
concert listings next to tracks of artists such as Coldplay.  The company said on Oct. 1 Ovi downloads had risen to 2.3
million a day. Still, the content available on Ovi is less
extensive than on Apple’s store, British Monitor International,
a London-based research firm, said in a May report.  “The Ovi Store still comes across as a mobile computing
resource for business users,” the company said.  In smartphones, which offer higher profit than basic voice
and text phones, Nokia faces many competitors in addition to
Apple’s iPhone. Suwon, South Korea-based  Samsung Electronics
Co. , the second-largest handset maker, has been winning
worldwide carrier support for its Android-based Galaxy S
handset. On Oct. 11,  Microsoft Corp.  will unveil phones using
the Windows Phone 7 operating system.  Wireless Partner  Nokia, which named former Microsoft executive  Stephen Elop 
as chief executive officer last month, has yet to announce a
U.S. wireless partner for the N8, which sells on the Web for
$549 without a contract.  Most mobile phones in the U.S. are sold through carriers
that subsidize purchases if consumers sign a two-year contract.
The U.S. is the biggest smartphone market, with 14.7 million
units accounting for 23 percent of second-quarter global
shipments, UK-based Canalys said in its report.  Ojanpera said Nokia will lure software developers to write
more applications for U.S. consumers by giving them access to
data it collects from millions of users daily.  Less Complexity  The company also has also reduced the complexity of its
developer tools and is sponsoring a $10 million contest with AT&T
Inc. to create novel applications.  Nokia’s turnaround may have to wait until it delivers an
operating system called MeeGo, created with chipmaker  Intel
Corp. , said  Mats Nystrom , an analyst for Swedish brokerage SEB
Enskilda.  Nokia said yesterday the head of MeeGo,  Ari Jaaksi , is
leaving.  Anssi Vanjoki , who runs the smartphone unit, said last
month he is stepping down.  “Nokia is not exposed to the important high-end smartphone
market, which accounts for some one-third of the total industry
value,” Nystrom said in an Oct. 4 note. “We think that MeeGo-
powered devices may save Nokia at the high-end, but this largely
depends on timing and on support from developers and
operators.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  