-- Norway's Central Bank to Limit Deposits With Quota System, Pay Banks Less
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2010-10-06T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/norway-s-central-bank-to-limit-deposits-with-quota-system-pay-banks-less.html
Norway’s central bank wants to pay
financial institutions less on their deposits in an effort to
restore liquidity to the country’s money markets.  The Oslo-based bank sent a proposal to  Finance Norway ,
which represents about 180 lenders operating in the country, to
limit deposits through a quota system. Finance Norway has until
Nov. 17 to respond, the bank said in a statement yesterday.  “The measures aim to boost activity in the short-term
money market, enhance transparency and accessibility in interest
rate determination and reduce money market premiums,” Governor
 Svein Gjedrem  said in the statement.  The  spread  between Norway’s interbank offered rate and the
benchmark was at 59 basis points yesterday, compared with 26
basis points at the end of 2009. Risk premiums in Norway “have
generally been higher” than in other countries, also in the
post-crisis period, the bank said. Norges Bank, which has raised
its main rate three times since October last year to steer
Norway’s recovery, wants to encourage banks to lend to each
other instead of depositing funds with the central bank.  According to the bank’s proposal, the new reserve rate will
be set 100 basis points, or 1 percentage point, lower than the
 main deposit  rate. The lending rate will be set 100 basis points
higher than the benchmark, which is currently at 2 percent.  “Under the new system, a defined volume of banks’ deposits
in Norges Bank, a quota, will bear interest at a rate equivalent
to the key rate -- the sight deposit rate,” the bank said.
“The interest rate on deposits in excess of this quota will be
lower.”  Market Rates Drop  The three-month  interbank deposit rate  dropped 14 basis
points yesterday to 2.35 percent, its lowest level since May 19.  “It will take a long time until this new system is
implemented,” said  Erik Bruce , senior economist at Nordea Bank
AB in Oslo, the largest Nordic lender. “The problem here is
that the spread between the money market rates and key rates has
been too high in Norway.”  Norges Bank said it will continue to hold short-term so-
called F-loan auctions to sustain liquidity in the money market.  The central bank is also seeking to improve the country’s
quoted interbank rates and will send a letter to Finance Norway
asking the group to “take responsibility for establishing a
more transparent and accessible system for banks’ calculations
of money market rates,” it said. Norway interbank offered rate
quoting “should follow international practice with a formalized
and official set of rules,” it said.  The new system is “planned to be in operation” from the
second half of 2011, Norges Bank said.  “The money market over-reacted on this today because it
will not have an influence before the second part of next
year,” Bruce said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meera Bhatia  in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  