-- Jury Weighs Whether Novartis Kept Hidden Risks of Bone-Strenthening Drug
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-10-06T18:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/novartis-trial-over-disclosure-of-risks-of-bone-drugs-goes-to-n-j-jury.html
A jury is weighing whether  Novartis
AG , a Swiss drugmaker, hid the risks of bone-strengthening
medicines that a woman blames for destroying her jaw.  Jane Bessemer, 73, sued Novartis after developing jawbone
damage while taking  Aredia  and Zometa to slow bone loss as she
battled breast cancer. Jurors in state court in New Brunswick,
New Jersey, are considering whether Novartis failed to provide
an adequate warning to Bessemer’s physician of jaw problems from
Aredia and Zometa and whether the drugs were a substantial
contributing factor to her condition.  “There is not anything in this record to show that
Novartis deliberately concealed anything,” Joe Hollingsworth, a
company attorney, said in his closing argument today.  Bessemer’s suit is the second product-liability case to go
to trial over the bone-strengthening treatments, which had 2009
 sales  of $1.5 billion, according to Novartis’ annual report.
Both drugs are still on the market. Last year, a Montana jury
ordered Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis to pay  $3.2 million  in
damages to a woman who blamed the drug for damaging her jaw.  Bessemer, of Brielle, New Jersey, seeks unspecified damages
for her pain, suffering and loss of enjoyment of life. Her
husband, Allan, 75, seeks damages for his loss of consortium,
society and services. Bessemer, who testified at a trial that
began Sept. 23, said the drugs helped cause her condition, known
as osteonecrosis.  ‘Should Have Known’  “Novartis should have known about this problem and should
have disclosed this problem,” Robert Germany, the Bessemers’
attorney, said in his summation. “People who take these drugs
had a right to know. Novartis should have told the truth about
them.”  Hollingsworth argued that Novartis adequately warned
Bessemer’s doctor of risks known at the time, and that her jaw
condition was unrelated to her use of the drugs. Bessemer, who
was diagnosed with cancer in 1997, took Aredia from 1999 to 2002
and Zometa from 2002 to 2004, according to Germany.  Hollingsworth said her injuries were caused by a bone
infection known as osteomyelitis, not her use of the drugs.
Bessemer had several operations to remove dead bone and had a
metal plate inserted in her jaw, according to Germany, a
Jackson, Mississippi-based lawyer.  Germany said the company failed to tell the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration about a series of red flags that suggested
the drugs posed risks of the injuries that Bessemer suffered.  Novartis, which has its  U.S. headquarters  in East Hanover,
New Jersey, faces about 550 lawsuits over the drugs consolidated
before a federal judge in Tennessee, and about 150 in state
court in New Brunswick, according to Germany.  The case is Bessemer v. Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp.,
MID-L-1835-08-MT, Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division,
Middlesex County (New Brunswick).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in New Brunswick, New Jersey, at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 