-- Novartis Drug Shows Promise as Arthritis, Psoriasis Therapy, Study Finds
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-10-06T17:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/novartis-drug-shows-promise-as-arthritis-psoriasis-therapy-study-finds.html
An experimental  Novartis AG  drug was
safe and effective in three auto-immune diseases that trigger
inflammation, a study found.  The medicine was better at alleviating symptoms in patients
suffering from psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis and uveitis than
a placebo, according to the research, published in the journal
 Science Translational Medicine . Novartis funded the study.  The cause of the three diseases isn’t clear, though
scientists believe a cell messenger called interleukin-17 is
involved in all of them. The Novartis drug, known as AIN457,
targets this pathway, easing the flaking of the skin in
psoriasis patients, soothing swollen joints in those with
arthritis and reducing irritation and improving vision in
uveitis. Like other antibody medicines, it is based on the
proteins the immune system makes in response to infection.  The “treatment induced clinically relevant response of
variable magnitude in patients suffering from each of these
diverse immune-mediated diseases,” according to the study,
which was led by Franco Di Padova of Novartis.  The researchers enrolled 104 patients, of which 60 received
the experimental drug, in three separate early-stage trials. The
patients’ improvement was gauged on established scales, the
study said. Side effects were comparable in both the placebo and
AIN457 groups.  Novartis plans to ask U.S. regulators for marketing
approval for the drug in a form of uveitis, an inflammation of
the middle layer of the eye, by the end of this year, Novartis
spokesman  Eric Althoff  said in a telephone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 