-- Novartis Wins New Jersey Trial Over Jaw Injury Linked to Bone Medicines
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-10-06T21:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/novartis-wins-new-jersey-state-trial-over-jaw-injury-blamed-on-bone-drugs.html
A New Jersey jury ruled that  Novartis
AG , the Swiss drugmaker, provided adequate warnings about the
risk of its bone-strengthening medicines, rejecting a lawsuit by
a woman who claimed the drugs destroyed her jaw.  Jane Bessemer, 73, sued Novartis after developing jawbone
damage while taking Aredia and Zometa to slow bone loss as she
battled breast cancer. Jurors in state court in New Brunswick,
New Jersey, ruled that Novartis provided adequate warning to
Bessemer’s physician of jaw problems from Aredia and Zometa.  “There is not anything in this record to show that
Novartis deliberately concealed anything,” Joe Hollingsworth, a
company attorney, said in his closing argument today.  Bessemer’s suit was the second product-liability case to go
to trial over the bone-strengthening treatments, which had 2009
 sales  of $1.5 billion, according to Novartis’ annual report.
Both drugs are still on the market. Last year, a Montana jury
ordered Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis to pay  $3.2 million  in
damages to a woman who blamed the drug for damaging her jaw.  Bessemer, of Brielle, New Jersey, sought unspecified
damages for her pain, suffering and loss of enjoyment of life.
Her husband, Allan, 75, sought damages for his loss of
consortium, society and services.  Bessemer, who testified at a trial that began Sept. 23,
said the drugs contributed to her condition, known as
osteonecrosis. She declined comment after the verdict. Her
attorney, Robert Germany, said he was disappointed with the
jury’s ruling.  Jury’s Verdict  By a 7-2 vote, the panel answered “No” to the question:
“Did Novartis fail to provide an adequate warning to Mrs.
Bessemer’s prescribing physician concerning the risks of jaw
problems from Aredia and/or Zometa that Novartis either knew or
should have known prior to Mrs. Bessemer discontinuing use of
the drug(s)?”  In his summation today, Germany argued: “Novartis should
have known about this problem and should have disclosed this
problem. People who take these drugs had a right to know.
Novartis should have told the truth about them.”  Hollingsworth argued that Novartis adequately warned
Bessemer’s doctor of risks known at the time, and that her jaw
condition was unrelated to her use of the drugs. Bessemer, who
was diagnosed with cancer in 1997, took Aredia from 1999 to 2002
and Zometa from 2002 to 2004, according to Germany.  Bone Infection  Hollingsworth said her injuries were caused by a bone
infection known as osteomyelitis, not her use of the drugs.
Bessemer had several operations to remove dead bone and had a
metal plate inserted in her jaw, according to Germany, a
Jackson, Mississippi-based lawyer.  Germany said the company failed to tell the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration about a series of red flags that suggested
the drugs posed risks of the injuries that Bessemer suffered.  Novartis, which has its  U.S. headquarters  in East Hanover,
New Jersey, faces about 550 lawsuits over the drugs,
consolidated before a federal judge in Tennessee. About 150 more
cases are in state court in New Brunswick, according to Germany.  The case is Bessemer v. Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp.,
MID-L-1835-08-MT, Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division,
Middlesex County (New Brunswick).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in New Brunswick, New Jersey, at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 