-- To Expand in a Slow-Growing Market, Dr. Fresh Revives Binaca
-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 2010-10-08T22:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/to-expand-in-a-slow-growing-market-dr-fresh-revives-binaca.html
Puneet Nanda moved to Moscow in 1991 from
his native New Delhi while the Soviet Union was collapsing. With
manufacturing near a standstill, Nanda, then 23, saw a seller’s
market for the toothbrushes his father’s factory made back in
India. Once he had established an office, he says, he could sell
a shipping container of 180,000 toothbrushes in a couple of
hours at twice his costs.  Business was sweet until 1995, when Nanda says he found himself
in the middle of warring mafia organizations, which had
infiltrated much of the business world in Russia. One group
attacked his offices and stole cash, inventory, and anything
else it considered valuable, Nanda recalls. “A lot of people
were beaten up, me included. And one of my managers, who was my
childhood friend whom I took to Russia, had almost half his hand
chopped off, including two fingers, in front of me,” says Nanda.
“That’s when my brother, because I was so messed up, came in and
flew me out.”  Nanda never went back to Russia, though he still harbored
overseas ambitions. In 1998 he moved to New York City to start
his own business selling inexpensive kid’s toothbrushes
manufactured at his father’s New Delhi factory. Within a year,
Nanda had his first big break, selling 270,000 three-pack
toothbrushes for $100,000 to the 99-Cent Only Stores chain in
Los Angeles. In 2001, Nanda chalked up another milestone when he
introduced a kid’s toothbrush called Firefly, which he designed
himself. The toothbrush had a light in its handle timed to stay
on for one minute, the recommended amount of time a child should
spend brushing his teeth.  Firefly’s novelty in the kid’s toothbrush category proved
popular with customers at discount stores, as well as mainstream
retailers such as Walgreens. The product line became the
springboard for the Buena Park, Calif.-based Dr. Fresh, which
today employs 100 people and makes a variety of oral-care
products in its own plant and through contract manufacturers in
China and Malaysia. With the exception of 2009, the height of
the Great Recession, Dr. Fresh has had double-digit annual
growth since 1999, Nanda says, primarily by selling products
that are cheaper than better-known brands from Procter & Gamble,
Colgate-Palmolive, and Johnson & Johnson. Nevertheless, Dr.
Fresh remains strongest in the market for kid’s toothbrushes.
For the 52-week period ending July 11, the company accounted for
15 percent of unit sales of children’s toothbrushes at U.S.
supermarkets, drugstores, and mass merchandise outlets,
excluding Wal-Mart stores, according to market researcher
SymphonyIRI Group.  While Nanda expects Dr. Fresh will have $50 million in sales
this year and $60 million in 2011, its overall market is
slowing. Research firm Packaged Facts expects just 3 percent
growth annually from now until 2014, when it projects the U.S.
oral-care product market will be worth $10.9 billion. To
increase share, Nanda, 42, has been snapping up tired brands
from troubled competitors, including Binaca.  Resurrecting the breath freshener spray and making it a major
national brand again is a crucial piece of Dr. Fresh’s growth
strategy. While it represents less than 10 percent of Dr.
Fresh’s sales today, Nanda believes Binaca can do much more. He
set a goal of 50 percent year-over-year growth, starting next
year. However, with Binaca having peaked in the 1980s as a
favorite of smokers, Nanda is finding that retailers aren’t
willing to carry the product. He says one buyer at a major
drugstore chain told him, “The people who used to buy Binaca are
either already in the grave or are heading toward it.” So Nanda
is introducing Binaca to a new generation too young to remember
the brand in its heyday.  In late 2009, he hired Tongal, an advertising service that
relies on a community of creative types willing to make Web
video that advertises a company’s product. To attract
submissions, Dr. Fresh offered $7,500 for the winning video. The
Los Angeles comedy troupe Team Tiger Awesome won with a takeoff
of a scene from the movie “Die Hard.” The spoof, which went up
on YouTube in May, had nearly 25,000 views as of early October.
In addition, Dr. Fresh made its own YouTube comedy videos for
Binaca, with the top five drawing roughly 73,000 views. Along
with YouTube, Nanda has zeroed in on Facebook, where the Binaca
page has more than 46,000 fans and is trying to attract more
with giveaways, such as its “Sexy Lips Contest” that handed out
an Apple iPad to the person whose head-shot photo on the Binaca
wall got the most “likes” from visitors.  Dr. Fresh’s Web campaign, which Nanda estimates cost about
$500,000, has yet to show dramatic results.  Adam Sarner , a
social media analyst for research firm Gartner, says YouTube,
Facebook, and other social networks offer small companies like
Dr. Fresh the chance to successfully market a brand at an
affordable price. However, he notes, the difficulty is in
keeping people talking about the product after the first contest
or funny video that attracts a lot of initial attention.  Nanda says online advertising offers his best chance at making
Binaca a household name again, and he’s prepared to spend an
additional $500,000 on marketing. He’s convinced his Web
campaigns can be as successful as big players’ more expensive TV
and magazine advertising. “If I’m doing very innovative work,
then I can probably do better than Colgate [on the Web],” Nanda
says. “It’s a much more level playing field when it comes to the
Internet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antone Gonsalves at  antoneg@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net  