-- Obama Job Strategy Backs Two-Year College Funding, Attacks Republican Cuts
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-10-06T15:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/obama-job-strategy-backs-two-year-college-funding-attacks-republican-cuts.html
Calling community colleges the
“unsung heroes” of the U.S. educational system, President
 Barack Obama  called for federal funding to support the two-year,
nonprofit institutions in helping put Americans back to work and
boost the economy.  Obama spoke at the first White House summit on community
colleges yesterday, which brought together more than 100 college
presidents, advocates and teachers from across the U.S. to
discuss how to best serve about 12 million students. To reach
his goal of making the U.S. No. 1 in the world in the percentage
of adults with college graduates by 2020, community colleges
will have to increase the number of degrees they give out by 5
million over the next 10 years, Obama said.  The focus on community colleges, which includes
partnerships with businesses, may have some political benefits
for Obama, said  Ross Baker , a political science professor at
Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey.  “Clearly the appeal is to people who are out of work,
obviously dissatisfied, probably upset that community college
classes are so crowded because so many people are there trying
to pick up credentials,” Baker said in a telephone interview.
“So he’s got both a receptive audience and some good political
ammunition to use on the Republicans.”  Criticizing Republicans  Obama criticized Republicans for their spending priorities
in their election-year pledge to voters. He accused them of
planning to cut education funding to trim $100 billion from the
$477 billion that lawmakers set for discretionary spending next
year while supporting extending tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans. Reducing education spending would hurt the U.S.’s
ability to compete against up-and-coming economies, Obama said.  Jobs requiring at least a two-year degree will grow twice
as fast in the coming years as jobs requiring no college degree,
Obama said.  “We will not fill those jobs, we will not keep those jobs
on our shores, without community colleges,” Obama said.  Obama said the Republican plan would result in cutting the
education budget by 20 percent.  “China is not slashing education 20 percent,” Obama said
at the conference. “India is not slashing education. We are in
a fight for the future.”  Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, called Obama’s figure “a made-up
number.”  ‘Untrue’ Points  While Republican leaders have said they will trim
discretionary spending, they haven’t identified where they will
make significant cuts.  Michael Steel, a spokesman for Representative  John Boehner 
of Ohio, the House Republican leader, said the party’s plan,
called the Pledge to America, doesn’t include “any of the
specific cuts” cited by Obama.  “The president’s untrue talking points don’t change the
fact that the American people are asking, ‘where are the jobs’
and he has no new answers,” Steel said in an e-mail.  Obama announced an initiative yesterday to link companies
including  McDonald’s Corp. ,  Gap Inc ., Pacific Gas & Electric,
 Accenture Plc  and  United Technologies Corp ., with community
colleges to develop job-training programs. The Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation also announced a $35 million grant program to
help students complete community college degrees in nine states
that serve the biggest populations of low-income students.  Reduced Initiative  In July 2009, Obama announced a $12 billion, 10-year plan
to help community colleges using competitive grants that would
expand partnerships with businesses, develop worksite education
programs, improve remedial and adult education programs,
modernize facilities and expand online learning programs, the
administration said at the time. The proposal would be paid for
by ending subsidies to banks and private lenders for student
loans.  Congress scaled back the initiative to $2 billion during
budget reconciliation, shifting a majority of the funds to pay
for the health-care overhaul, said  Terry Hartle , senior vice
president at the Washington-based American Council on Education.  The Obama administration “wanted a broad program that
would allow them to do virtually anything to help community
colleges,” Hartle said in a telephone interview. “The program
that was funded really forces them to focus on programs for
individuals who have lost their job as a result of the economic
downturn.”  Greater Recognition  For-profit colleges called for greater recognition of their
role in reaching the president’s educational goals. The for-
profit institutions have been criticized by the Obama
administration for misleading applicants about job prospects and
are the target of proposed tighter regulation on recruiting
practices.  About 12 percent of U.S. post-secondary students are
enrolled in for-profit colleges, many of them low-income and
minorities, according to the Association of Private Sector
Colleges and Universities, a Washington-based industry group
formerly called the Career College Association.  “The millions of students in private sector schools
deserve the same attention and encouragement as those students
in other postsecondary institutions,” said  Harris Miller ,
president and chief executive officer of the industry group, in
a letter today to  Jill Biden . “Please don’t forget to include
our students in future White House discussions of how best to
prepare our future workforce for the 21st Century.”  Pleased Supporters  Community college leaders and supporters were pleased by
the recognition from Obama, said  David Baime , senior vice
president for government relations and research at the  American
Association of Community Colleges , a Washington-based advocacy
group. Obama’s goal to add another 5 million community college
graduates over the next 10 years would be a 50 percent increase
over the estimates given current graduation rates, Baime said.  More money will be needed to reach those goals,  James Jacobs , president of Macomb Community College in Warren,
Michigan, said in an interview at the summit.  “It’s one thing to set up targets,” Jacobs said. “It’s
another thing to give the resources needed to get to the
targets. At some point the resources need to be discussed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 