-- Obama's Tax Pitch: The Income Gap That Millionaires Should Fill
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-10-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/obama-pre-election-tax-battle-shift-pits-millionaires-against-middle-class.html
President  Barack Obama  has shifted
his central argument against the  Bush-era tax cuts  to make the
income gap as much a voter concern as the budget gap.  Since Sept. 3, Obama has chided Republicans for wanting to
extend tax cuts for “millionaires and billionaires” -- a line
he repeated in a morning television interview, a weekly radio
address, backyard chats in Des Moines and Albuquerque, and three
times during one speech at a community college in Cuyahoga
County, Ohio. Before then, administration economists cast taxing
the wealthy largely as a matter of fiscal prudence -- a way to
free up $700 billion from the deficit over the next 10 years.  Administration officials are betting that emphasizing
fairness will resonate with voters in the November elections as
Democrats struggle to save their majorities on Congress. The
pitch is bolstered by research from Emmanuel Saez, a University
of California economist, that shows middle-class incomes
stagnated in the five years before the recession, then suffered
the biggest drop since the Great Depression.  “If you start talking about fairness, then it’s clear,”
said  Alan Krueger, the Treasury  Department’s chief economist.
“The middle class has struggled over the past 10 years. Given
what’s happened in recent decades, given who benefitted from
past tax cuts, which group would you protect?”  Top Earners  The cuts -- which expire Dec. 31 -- have become a pivotal
battle for a president sent to Washington promising to help the
middle class. Both Democrats and Republicans want households
earning less than $250,000 to keep current tax rates, which were
enacted in 2001 and 2003 under President  George W. Bush . The
debate is whether to raise taxes on the top 2 percent to 3
percent of American wage earners.  Jennifer Duffy , political analyst at the  Cook Political 
Report, said Obama’s change in tactics is calculated to draw in
supporters from 2008. Polls show that Republicans are poised for
significant gains in November.  “I think the shift in rhetoric on tax cuts is designed to
motivate the base and get them invested in this election,”
Duffy said. She said the Democrats’ ability to get out the vote
“may make the difference between having a horrible night and
just a bad one.”  Republicans say Obama is engaging in class warfare and
argue that higher taxes on the rich will slow investment and
delay hiring.  “Where is the fairness at stifling the job creators who
are going to be offering jobs -- to those very people that the
president is claiming to be advocating for,” said Republic
Representative  Peter Roskam  of Illinois, where unemployment of
10.1 percent tops the national rate.  2008 Campaign  Obama’s tax-cut strategy dates back to the 2008
presidential campaign, when he and Vice President  Joseph Biden 
saw middle-class stagnation as one of the economy’s biggest
problems, said  Jared Bernstein, Biden’s  chief economic adviser.  “They were getting this message from middle-class families
that something’s wrong,” said Bernstein, who has a doctorate in
social welfare from Columbia University and has written books on
inequality trends, including “Crunch: Why Do I Feel So
Squeezed?” in 2008. “A big motive for their economic policy to
this day is fixing that,” he said.  White House economists also drew on the work of Saez, an
economist from the University of California, Berkeley, who spent
years analyzing Internal Revenue Service data. Last week, the
 37-year-old was named  a MacArthur Foundation Fellow, receiving a
so-called genius grant for his work analyzing income and tax
policy.  Earnings ‘Disconnect’  Saez reviewed income-tax data from 1913 to 2008 and
produced a narrative that private-sector economists and even
skeptics of Obama’s strategy have found worth reading. Updated
in July, the study details a measurable “disconnect” between
wealthy Americans and everyone else, Saez said in an e-mail.  “Striking it Richer: The Evolution of Top Incomes  in the
United States,” found that middle and upper-income Americans
also experienced the recession differently. His research
resonated with Obama’s team and triggered e-mail exchanges
between Saez and several administration economists.  According to the study, top income earners sustained a
less-damaging shock than in other downturns -- and sustained
less damage than the middle class.  The top 1 percent of American earners captured two-thirds
of all income growth from 2002 to 2007. Middle incomes stagnated
during the same time period and then plunged 6.9 percent during
the recession, Saez found.  Income Fall  Saez also found the top 1 percent, who earned $368,000 or
more, saw income fall by 19.7 percent from 2007 to 2008. The
fall was less than the 21.2 percent drop those earners had in
the first year of the recession that began 2000, Saez said.  The first year of the current recession came after a five-
year boom for the top earners, who posted 10.3 percent real
annual earnings growth, Saez said. So the rich were much better
positioned to withstand the financial crisis, he said.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  this summer
contended that raising taxes on the rich will signal to
investors that the U.S. won’t let its budget deficit balloon
indefinitely.  The Congressional Budget Office  expects the
deficit to exceed  $1.3 trillion in fiscal 2010, which ended
Sept. 30,  nearing the $1.4 trillion record set in 2009.  Republicans and other economists dispute the Obama
rationale that the rich -- whose tax rates would rise from 33
and 35 percent to 36 and 39.6 percent -- should pay for past
good times.  ‘Opportunistic’ Strategy  Raghuram Rajan, an economist  at the University of Chicago
who wrote “Fault Lines,” a book published this year that
examines the financial crisis and income inequality, said
Obama’s tax strategy is politically “opportunistic” and won’t
fix the structural aspects of inequality.  As yet, the administration hasn’t done enough to improve
education and unemployment benefits, both critical to the
recovery, he said. “We have a two-tier recovery,” Rajan said
in a telephone interview. “It accentuates the earlier problems
that we had.”  James K. Galbraith, a University of Texas  economist and
author of the 1998 book “Created Unequal: The Crisis in
American Pay,” said the Obama strategy should be seen as a
first step toward rebalancing the tax system.  “We don’t need higher taxes, we need better taxes,”
Galbraith, a former executive director of the  Joint Economic
Committee , said in a phone interview. “Putting income in the
hands of people who need it, and not in the hands of people who
don’t, is the right economic policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  