-- Obama Veterans Affairs Appointee Questioned Over $4 Million From Medtronic
-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-10-06T17:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/obama-veterans-affairs-appointee-questioned-over-4-million-from-medtronic.html
A top physician at the U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs was recommended for a government
job by medical supplier  Medtronic Inc. , which paid the doctor $4
million in the two years before he joined the Obama
administration, according to U.S. Sen.  Charles Grassley .  In a Sept. 28 letter to VA Secretary  Eric Shinseki ,
Grassley, an Iowa Republican, asked the agency to disclose the
extent of its knowledge of the financial relationship between
Medtronic and VA Senior Policy Adviser Stephen L. Ondra, a
Chicago neurosurgeon.  Grassley, a Senate Finance Committee member who has been
investigating doctors’ conflicts of interest, wrote that it was
“apparent that as a result of his relationship with Medtronic,
Ondra was able to penetrate the political establishment at its
highest level to obtain a senior position at the VA.”  The senator also asked for records of any post-appointment
contact between Ondra and Medtronic, and whether the surgeon has
recused himself from dealing with the company.  Ondra told VA officials that he disclosed his prior
financial relationship with Medtronic during the
administration’s vetting process, according to a response the
agency sent Grassley.  The agency concluded that Ondra “had no conflicts regarding
Medtronic or any other firm when he assumed his VA duties, and
has none since,” said Shinseki’s Sept. 30 letter. Ondra could
not be reached for comment through VA spokeswoman Katie Roberts.  ‘Common Practice’  Medtronic’s letter of recommendation for Ondra was
“appropriate and common practice for someone so highly
regarded,” said  Brian Henry , a spokesman for the Minneapolis-
based company. Ondra was paid fair market value for consulting
work and for intellectual property he contributed to the
company, Henry said. Ondra’s work for Medtronic stopped in June
2008 and he has done nothing for the company since joining the
VA, Henry said.  In his public role, Ondra is not involved in purchasing
medical devices, according to the agency’s response. The VA is a
major buyer of such goods and  Medtronic  is one of the world’s
largest makers of them, including products used in heart and
spinal surgery. Its close relationship with military physicians
has been the subject of past scrutiny by Congress.  The VA said any contact between Ondra and Medtronic
officials since he took office has been minimal and “of a purely
social and personal nature,” according to Shinseki’s letter. It
also said that Ondra would be expected to consult with an agency
attorney and, if necessary, recuse himself “in the unlikely
event” that he confronted a job-related issue that had a direct
effect on his financial interests.  Senior Policy Adviser  Ondra was appointed senior policy adviser for health
affairs in 2009 after Medtronic Chief Executive Officer  William Hawkins  told a subordinate to write a letter recommending him
for a position in the administration, according to a Hawkins e-
mail Grassley quoted in his letter.  Before his government appointment, Ondra was the head of
spine surgery at  Northwestern Memorial Hospital  in Chicago.
Grassley’s letter indicates Medtronic paid him almost $4 million
for consulting services, speaking engagements and royalties.
Ondra has also been an active researcher for Medtronic, having
been involved in at least six Medtronic-funded spine studies,
the senator said.  In a Jan. 16, 2009, e-mail from Hawkins to the head of
Medtronic’s spine business, the chief executive wrote that he
had spoken with the then-assistant secretary of defense for
health affairs, “regarding the process by which we might
recommend a candidate to replace him in the new administration.”  Recommendations Important  Hawkins wrote that his call was “welcomed” and that while
he was told the decision on who to name to the post would be
made by Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and  President Obama ,
“recommendations from CEOs were very important.”  “The public has the right to know whether or not Dr.
Ondra’s policy advice and decisions at the VA are vulnerable to
potential conflicts of financial interest,” Grassley wrote. In a
prior case, Medtronic paid almost $800,000 over three years to a
former Army surgeon accused by the military of fabricating a
study that reported favorably on Medtronic’s Infuse bone-graft
product.  The surgeon, Timothy Kuklo, has denied any wrongdoing and a
committee at  Washington University  in St. Louis, where he worked
after completing his Army service said last year that it did not
find sufficient evidence to support the allegation that he
falsified research results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Armstrong  in Boston at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  