-- JPMorgan, 3M, Och-Ziff, Lehman, Toyota in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-06T13:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/och-ziff-lehman-arcelormittal-toyota-allstate-in-court-news.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Bank of America
Corp.  and Ally Financial Inc., defending allegations of
fraudulent home foreclosures from customers and Congress, may
face the most financial peril from investigations by state
attorneys general.  Authorities in at least seven states are probing whether
lenders used false documents and signatures to justify hundreds
of thousands of foreclosures, and the number of these inquiries
will grow, according to state officials and legal experts.  “You’re going to see a tremendous amount of activity with
all the AGs in the U.S.,” Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray
said in an interview. “We have a high degree of skepticism that
the corners that were cut are truly legal.”  JPMorgan, Bank of America and Ally have curtailed
foreclosures or evictions in 23 states where courts have
jurisdiction over home seizures.  While homeowners in those states and elsewhere must usually
show damages to win a lawsuit, “attorneys general can just sue
over deceptive sales practices and get penalties,” said
Christopher Peterson, a University of Utah law professor who
specializes in commercial and contract law.  Officials in Ohio and Connecticut, along with Florida,
Texas, North Carolina, Iowa and Illinois, said they are
investigating mortgage foreclosure practices.  Attorneys general in Colorado and California asked Ally’s
GMAC unit to halt foreclosures in their states. GMAC and
Colorado Attorney General John W. Suthers are planning to meet
to discuss the matter, said Mike Saccone, spokesman for Suthers.  “We’re talking to them,” Jim Finefrock, spokesman for
California Attorney General Jerry Brown, said in a telephone
interview about Detroit-based Ally.  Lenders, loan servicers and even title insurance companies
are facing litigation on multiple fronts, said Peter Henning, a
law professor at Wayne State University in Detroit and a former
federal prosecutor who worked on cases involving bank fraud.  “This is going to become a hydra,” he said in an
interview. “You’ve got so many potential avenues of liability.
You don’t even know the parameters of this yet.”  For more, click here.  3M Cleared to Buy Cogent as Judge Rejects Challenge  3M Co.  was cleared to buy  Cogent Inc. , a maker of
fingerprint-identification systems, after a judge rejected a
shareholder challenge to the $943 million deal.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald F. Parsons yesterday
denied Cogent shareholders’ request for an injunction to stop
the sale in favor of a late, non-binding offer from  NEC Corp. 
that would be worth more.  Parsons rejected the investors’ claim that Cogent Chief
Executive Officer Ming Hsieh was biased in favor of 3M because
he wanted to collect a $153,000 retention bonus.  “This argument is spurious,” Parsons wrote in a decision
issued yesterday in Wilmington, Delaware. “Hsieh’s interests
appear to be closely aligned with those of the stockholders as a
whole.”  In an NEC sale, Hsieh, who owns almost 39 percent of
Cogent, would have collected $18 million more than through the
3M deal, Cogent attorney Donald J. Wolfe said in court last
week.  Parsons sided with Pasadena, California-based Cogent, which
argued that a possible sale to NEC wasn’t firm enough and would
pose antitrust risks.  “The board had good reason to think that there was a
substantial risk,” Parsons wrote.  Michael Hanrahan, an attorney for the shareholders with
Prickett, Jones & Elliott PA in Wilmington, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  The case is In Re Cogent Inc. Shareholders Litigation,
Consolidated CA 5780-VCP, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Judge Narrows Suit Against Madoff Feeder Fund Beacon  Investors may pursue securities fraud claims against  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp .’s Ivy Asset Management LLC for losing
client money in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme through the Beacon
Associates fund, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Leonard Sand in Manhattan yesterday
threw out other claims, including those based on state law,
against Ivy and other defendants in the case. Ivy had a contract
to evaluate and recommend investment managers to Beacon, which
invested about 71 percent of its assets with Madoff.  “Between 1995 and 2008, Beacon invested approximately $164
million with Madoff and withdrew approximately $26 million,
leaving a net investment of approximately $138 million,” Sand
said in his 82-page opinion.  Investors claim that Ivy withheld suspicions about Madoff
to continue collecting millions in fees on the investments.  In May, New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo sued Ivy and
two of its executives, former Chief Executive Officer Lawrence
Simon and ex-Chief Investment Officer Howard Wohl, for fraud in
state court in Manhattan.  “We’re delighted that the claims will proceed into
discovery on behalf of the class,” said Barbara Hart, a lawyer
for the investors.  Lewis Liman, who represents Ivy, didn’t return a voice-mail
message seeking comment.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty to orchestrating history’s
biggest Ponzi scheme at his New York firm, Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC. He is serving a 150-year term in a
federal prison in North Carolina.  The case is In Re Beacon Associates Litigation, 09-CV-777,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Trials  Och-Ziff Sues London Firm for Impersonation, Name Use  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group , the New York-based
hedge-fund firm run by Daniel Och, is suing a London investment
adviser and its founder to block the use of the Och name.  Och-Ziff’s European unit asked a London court for an
injunction to stop  OCH Capital LLP  and its founder Thomas
Ochocki from using the first portion of its name. It is also
seeking damages for trademark infringement and passing itself
off as the New York firm, which has more than $26 billion in
assets under management.  Guy Hollingworth, a lawyer for Och-Ziff, said yesterday at
the start of a two-day trial in London that OCH Capital’s
cooperation “has been totally unsatisfactory and inexcusable.”  Michael Cohen, the chief executive officer of Och-Ziff
Management Europe Ltd., testified about the importance of Europe
to the firm’s business, saying Och-Ziff has 50 percent of its
assets under management outside of the U.S. and 40 percent of
its investors in Europe. It has about 65 employees in the U.K.
and manages $1.5 billion in assets for people there, Cohen said.  A lawyer for OCH Capital, Alistair Wilson, said the London-
based firm pronounces its name as initials, and offered to Och-
Ziff to clarify that late last year.  “Our client said they were willing to change to O.C.H. to
make it clear that it was pronounced O-C-H,” Wilson said at the
first day of the trial. “That was rejected.”  Och Capital is named after the first three letters of its
founder’s name, Wilson said. At a previous job as a trader,
Ochocki became known by the letters O-C-H, Wilson said, and is
still referred to as that because his name is hard to pronounce.  There was “no intention to cause any confusion at all”
with Och-Ziff, Wilson said. He apologized to Judge Richard
Arnold for initially failing to comply with court orders and
said the firm is now cooperating.  The case is Och-Ziff Management Europe v. OCH Capital LLP,
112/10, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division (London).  For more, click here.  Lehman Blank Check May Haunt Judge at Barclays Trial  Two years ago, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in
Manhattan gave lawyers a blank check to complete a deal with
Barclays Plc to salvage the remains of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  and prevent further financial catastrophe.  While Peck’s decision to let lawyers for both sides hash
out the final details of Lehman’s brokerage sale may have helped
seal the deal, his blanket approval spawned an $11 billion
lawsuit that threatens to undo the 2008 agreement, Bloomberg
News’s Linda Sandler reports.  Lehman alleges Barclays took advantage of the haste in
which the deal was worked out to gain assets it never told the
judge about. Now Peck may have to decide whether to undo his own
order, or find another way to claw back some money for Lehman
creditors.  “Those in charge of the sale decided, ‘the whole financial
system will collapse unless the sale is approved now,’” said
George Kuney, a professor at the University of Tennessee College
of Law in Knoxville who teaches bankruptcy and contract law.
“Once you proceed on that basis in a transaction of this size,
the process is going to be pretty sloppy and mistakes are
inevitably going to be made.”  Peck’s assistant and courtroom deputy Lynda Calderon didn’t
return calls requesting comment from the judge. Under Peck, the
two-year bankruptcy case has cost Lehman creditors $961 million
in fees to managers and advisers through August, the most
expensive bankruptcy ever.  Peck’s Sept. 19, 2008, order approving the brokerage sale,
signed four days after the 158-year-old bank collapsed,
specifically allowed Lehman’s and Barclays’ lawyers to change
any documents he’d approved, or add documents that weren’t
finished yet, though he said the changes shouldn’t “have a
material adverse effect on the debtors’ estates” and should be
okayed by Lehman, its creditors and Barclays.  The 2009 lawsuit led to a trial that’s been going on since
April. It pits Lehman, which examiner Anton Valukas has said hid
billions of dollars in risks before it failed, against Barclays,
which was the only bidder for the brokerage.  Lehman accuses Barclays of taking a $5 billion “secret”
profit on a portfolio of securities it acquired with the
brokerage, and of making another $6 billion by writing up
business assets, skimping on promised payments and “grabbing”
more financial assets belonging to Lehman. Some of the disputed
assets were assigned to Barclays in a so-called clarification
letter that should have been shown to Peck, Lehman says.  Barclays says it wants $3 billion of assets that were never
delivered. Lehman has no legal right to challenge the
transaction now because its advisers knew and documented all the
details when the deal was struck, and defended it in a higher
court when it was challenged, according to Barclays.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Tax Trial Jury Hears Developers Are Either Liars or Scapegoats  A father and son on trial on charges they hid a $33 million
hotel sale from U.S. tax authorities were either lying tax
cheats or innocent scapegoats, jurors heard in closing
arguments.  Prosecutors yesterday said Mauricio Cohen Assor, 77, and
Leon Cohen Levy, 46, conspired to defraud the Internal Revenue
Service and file false tax returns that concealed income and
more than $150 million in assets.  Michael Pasano, a defense lawyer, said the government
offered an “Alice in Wonderland” case built on flawed theories
and lying witnesses.  The case is  U.S. v. Assor, 10-cr-60159, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Toyota Concealed Defects, Investors Say in Consolidated Suit  Toyota Motor Corp.  was accused by U.S. investors of
violating securities law by failing to disclose acceleration-
related defects that it knew about, according to a consolidated
complaint in a class-action lawsuit.  The shareholders, led by the  Maryland State Retirement and
Pension System , said in the Oct. 4 filing in federal court in
Los Angeles that internal documents show  Toyota  deliberately
concealed unintended sudden acceleration problems in the U.S.
They said the company knew about the defects as early as 2000
and “stonewalled” regulators to avoid recalls.  “As government regulators and the media began to focus on
this serious safety problem in the Toyota vehicles, defendants
initially denied that any unintended acceleration problem
existed, despite a plethora of internal evidence to the
contrary, and instead blamed driver error and media-induced
publicity,” the investors said.  Toyota’s recalls related to sudden acceleration defects
have erased $30 billion in market capitalization, the investors
said. The Maryland pension fund seeks to represent investors who
bought Toyota’s  American depositary receipts  from May 10, 2005,
to Feb. 2, 2010.  U.S. District Judge Dale Fischer, who is overseeing the
 case , said in July that a U.S. Supreme Court decision may
exclude securities-law claims by investors in Toyota’s  common
stock .  Gerald Silk, a lawyer for the Maryland fund, said in August
that the decision as to which claims will be allowed to proceed
will be made through a motion to seek class certification or a
motion to dismiss the complaint.  “Toyota believes that the claims contained in the recently
filed shareholder securities consolidated complaint are
unfounded,” Celeste Migliore, a spokeswoman for Toyota Motor
Sales USA in Torrance, California, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “We look forward to presenting our position to the
court.”  The case is In re Toyota Motor Corp. Securities Litigation,
10-00922, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles.)  ArcelorMittal Sues Trader for Steel Stolen to Finance Gambling  ArcelorMittal Singapore Pte , claiming a former warehouse
manager stole steel products and sold them at a discount to fund
his gambling, sued scrap metal trader Guan Peng Hardware Pte for
the return of the goods.  Low Kok Leong stole about 4,000 metric tons of steel
products valued at $7 million and sold them to four companies
including Guan Peng at a fraction of their actual value,
according to lawsuit filed with the Singapore High Court last
month. Low has admitted to the theft, according to the suit.  The Singapore unit of the world’s largest steelmaker said
in the suit that Guan Peng offered to return 500 metric tons of
steel, and that it failed to disclose another 700 tons. Low has
been charged with  criminal breach of trust  and faces a jail term
of as long as 15 years, according to the suit.  Guan Peng Managing Director Ng Boon Tin said he paid Low in
cash checks for the goods, according to court papers. Ng
couldn’t be reached for comment at his office.  Lynn Robbroeckx, a London-based spokeswoman for
ArcelorMittal, couldn’t be reached for comment outside office
hours.  The case is ArcelorMittal Singapore Pte v. Guan Peng
Hardware Pte, S677/2010, Singapore High Court.  Toyota Sued by Allstate in Acceleration-Caused Claims  Toyota Motor Corp.  was sued by Allstate Corp. and
affiliates of the insurer saying they have paid $3 million for
accidents caused by sudden acceleration.  Toyota “had full knowledge of the numerous complaints
regarding its vehicles, that such vehicles were susceptible of
sudden unintended acceleration, and thus that such vehicles
posed a significant risk of property damage, as well as physical
injury to vehicle occupants and other motorists,” Allstate said
Oct. 1 in a complaint in California state court.  Sudden acceleration has accounted for at least 725
accidents with 304 injuries and 18 fatalities, Allstate said,
citing Safety Research and Strategies Inc. Undisclosed flaws in
the electronic throttle have been linked to sudden acceleration,
it said.  It accused Toyota of negligence, product liability, breach
of implied warranty and fraud.  “While Toyota has not seen the complaint, based on
reports, we believe the unfounded allegations in this suit have
no basis,” Celeste Migliore, a spokeswoman for Toyota Motor
Sales USA Inc. in Torrance, California, said Oct. 4 in an e-
mailed statement.  Toyota said Oct. 4 that it hasn’t found evidence its
electronic throttle control caused unintended acceleration after
engineers and technicians investigated more than 4,000 U.S.
vehicles whose drivers made such complaints.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Toyota Motor North
America Inc., BC446704, Los Angeles County Superior Court (Los
Angeles).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Allergan Pleads Guilty Over Unapproved Botox Marketing  Allergan Inc.  pleaded guilty and was ordered by a judge to
pay $375 million to resolve allegations that the drug company
marketed its Botox Therapeutic product for unapproved purposes,
the U.S. Justice Department said.  U.S. District Judge Orinda Evans in Atlanta yesterday
approved the plea, which includes a $350 million criminal fine
and $25 million in forfeited assets, the Justice Department
said.  Allergan, based in Irvine, California, promoted Botox for
headache, pain and juvenile cerebral palsy from 2000 through
2005, though it had never received U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for those uses, the U.S. claimed.  The company said on Sept. 1 that it would pay $225 million
to resolve civil claims asserted by the Justice Department under
the False Claims Act.  “The FDA approval process is designed to help protect the
public, and when a manufacturer puts potential profits and sales
ahead of the approval process, they risk paying a bigger
price,” said U.S. Attorney Sally Quillian Yates in Atlanta.  The global settlement concludes a 2 1/2-year investigation
that some analysts have said has held up FDA approval for
treatment of migraines. Botox, a wrinkle smoother, is Allergan’s
top product with $1.3 billion in annual sales.  “Allergan is committed to conducting its business with the
highest ethical standards and in compliance with all applicable
laws,” said Crystal Muilenburg, a company spokeswoman. “We
will continue to do so and implement the new requirements”
under the agreement.  Times Square Bomber Faisal Shahzad Gets Life in Prison  Faisal Shahzad was given a life prison sentence for driving
a bomb-laden car into New York’s Times Square in May and trying
unsuccessfully to blow it up.  U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum handed down
the sentence yesterday in a 25-minute proceeding in federal
court in Manhattan. There is no parole in the federal penal
system.  “You are a young man and you will have a long time to
reflect on what you have done and what you have said, today and
in the past,” Cedarbaum told Shahzad. The judge said she hopes
Shahzad, a Muslim who worked with the Taliban in Pakistan,
spends some of that time considering “whether the Koran wants
you to kill lots of people.”  “The Koran gives us the right to defend, and that’s what
I’m doing,” Shahzad answered.  Shahzad, 31, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in Pakistan,
admitted he drove a Nissan Pathfinder into the crowded Manhattan
intersection laden with improvised explosives. He fled when they
failed to go off and was arrested May 3 at New York’s  John F.
Kennedy International Airport  after boarding a flight to Dubai.  “I am happy with the deal that God has given me,”
Shahzad, smiling, told Cedarbaum after she imposed the sentence.  He pleaded guilty on June 21 to all 10 terrorism-related
charges, including attempted use of a weapon of mass
destruction, in an indictment filed by prosecutors in the office
of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  The case is U.S. v. Shahzad, 10-00928, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Thai Court Puts Russia’s Bout Closer to U.S. Custody  A Thai court dismissed a second case against accused
Russian arms dealer Viktor Bout, clearing a legal hurdle to
having him extradited to the U.S. to face terrorism charges.  “The second set of cases are dropped,” prosecutor Sirisak
Tiyapan told reporters in Bangkok after the ruling. “So the
extradition on the first case will continue.”  Thai prosecutors are seeking to send Bout to the U.S.,
where a grand jury indicted him on four charges that he plotted
to kill Americans. Bout’s lawyer immediately announced plans to
file more appeals in a bid to keep him in Thailand.  “It’s not finished yet,” lawyer Lak Nittiwattanawichan
told reporters. “They can’t do anything. I know how to fight.”  The U.S.  accuses  the ex-Soviet air force officer of running
an air cargo network that shipped weapons to conflict zones from
Afghanistan to Rwanda. Bout has denied wrongdoing, saying he was
framed by U.S. undercover agents who posed as Colombian rebels
during his arrest in Bangkok two years ago.  Synthes to Pay Fine, Sell Unit to Settle Criminal Case  Synthes Inc. , the maker of devices to treat spinal
injuries, will sell its Norian Corp. unit to settle criminal
allegations Norian illegally tested a bone-mending cement that
caused the deaths of three patients.  The agreement allows Synthes to keep operating in the U.S.
without its products being banned from Medicare reimbursement
programs. Under the terms of the settlement, Norian will plead
guilty to a felony, pay a $23.5 million fine and face exclusion
from Medicare, the government’s health plan for the elderly and
disabled, the company and the Department of Justice said Oct. 4
in separate statements.  The divestiture is the first time the U.S. has ordered a
medical device maker to sell a subsidiary in a health-fraud
case, Gregory Demske, assistant inspector general for legal
affairs with the Department of Health and Human Services, said
in a telephone interview.  “We are used to seeing cases that involve monetary
fraud,” Demske said. “The patient harm and the subversion of
the Food and Drug Administration process took this to a
different level from our perspective.”  Synthes , which has its U.S. headquarters in West Chester,
Pennsylvania and trades in Zurich, will plead guilty to one
misdemeanor charge of shipping an adulterated and misbranded
Norian product across state lines. Synthes didn’t admit the
broader allegations about an illegal medical trial made by
federal prosecutors in court documents.  “It is a reasonably good outcome,” Synthes spokesman
Gilgian Eisner said in a telephone interview. “It permits us to
focus on the business that we have.”  The case is U.S. v. Norian Corp., 09-00403, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 