-- Hochtief, ACS Spar Over Leighton Stake as German Builder Ekes Out Defense
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2010-10-06T08:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/hochtief-acs-spar-over-leighton-stake-as-german-builder-ekes-out-defense.html
Actividades de Construccion y
Servicios  said its bid for Hochtief AG won’t require an offer
for an Australian subsidiary, disputing a Hochtief claim that
aims to repel the unwanted approach.  Hochtief filed a request with Australia’s securities
regulator, seeking to force an offer for the outstanding shares
in Leighton Holdings Ltd. should the Spanish builder gain
“effective control” over Hochtief. ACS, which wants to buy
Essen, Germany-based Hochtief for about 2.7 billion euros
($3.74 billion), said the claim is “groundless.”  ACS said Sept. 17 that the “first thing we checked”
before disclosing its offer was whether it would require a
buyout offer for Leighton, of which Hochtief owns 54.5 percent.
The Australian builder is Hochtief’s most prized asset, with the
value of the stake almost equal to the value of the entire
German construction company.  Forcing ACS to bid for the outstanding shares of Leighton
would drive up the price, potentially deterring the Spanish
builder, which has more than 10 billion euros  in debt  from past
deals. A mandatory offer for Leighton would require ACS to spend
another 3.15 billion euros, Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg
analyst  Alexander Groschke  estimates.  “We see this more as a sign that Hochtief starts to fight
back,” Groschke, who advises investors to buy Hochtief shares,
said in a note. “This would make Hochtief more expensive.”  No Value  Hochtief is seeking to ward off ACS’s approach, arguing
that the bid adds no value for  shareholders . ACS, which already
owns close to 30 percent of Hochtief, wants to raise its stake
to just over 50 percent over time. ACS ownership of 35 percent
of Hochtief would effectively put the Spanish company in
control, Hochtief spokesman  Christian Gerhardus  said yesterday.  Leighton said in a separate release that it’s monitoring
developments and the implications for Leighton and its
shareholders. To date, ACS has publicly indicated that it
doesn’t intend to make a bid for Leighton, Leighton said in a
statement filed to the Australian stock exchange today.  Hochtief has hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche
Bank AG to assist it with its defense strategy, together with
Credit Suisse Group AG, which was already an adviser prior to
the approach. The builder is also being advised by law firm
Hengeler Mueller, and the  supervisory board -mandated law firm
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benedikt Kammel  at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  