-- Oil May Rise as U.S. Exports, Economic Growth Cut Stockpiles, Goldman Says
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2010-10-06T02:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/oil-may-rise-as-u-s-exports-reduce-stockpiles-goldman-says.html
Crude prices may rise to between $85
and $95 a barrel by the end of this year as stockpiles decline
in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil-consuming nation, according
to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   U.S. petroleum supplies may fall because of demand for
products from emerging markets including China, Goldman said in
a report yesterday. An economic recovery will probably cause
inventories to decline to “more normal” levels by early 2011,
it said.  “While U.S. implied oil demand remains firm, we believe
that the decline in U.S. net oil imports is the main driver of
the draw on U.S. total petroleum inventories,” Goldman
analysts, led by New York-based  David Greely , wrote. “Strong
growth in emerging-arket demand is beginning to tighten the
U.S. supply-demand balance.”  Benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude futures rose 11
percent last month, the most since May 2009, because of optimism
economic growth will boost fuel consumption. The contract for
November delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange was near a
five-month high above $82 a barrel after an expansion in U.S.
service companies beat forecasts.  Petroleum inventories  in the U.S. declined 5.1 million
barrels, or 0.5 percent, in the week ended Sept. 24 to
1.14 billion barrels, according to the Energy Department.
Gasoline and distillate fuel stockpiles fell even as refiners
cut  run rates  to the lowest since April.  “The draw clearly acted as a catalyst to send prices
higher as oil-market sentiment swung in a more constructive
direction,” the analysts wrote. “We expect export demand for
U.S. petroleum products to remain high while crude imports
decline further, which should help to sustain the draw on U.S.
inventories.”  Goldman maintained its Feb. 5 recommendation to buy
December 2010 WTI contracts, a call that’s made $4.75 a barrel
so far, according to yesterday’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 