-- Goldman Sachs Says U.S. Economy May Be `Fairly Bad'
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-06T04:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/oldman-sachs-says-u-s-economy-to-be-fairly-bad-recession-is-possible.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the U.S.
economy is likely to be “fairly bad” or “very bad” over the
next six to nine months.  “We see two main scenarios,” analysts led by  Jan Hatzius ,
the New York-based chief U.S. economist at the company, wrote in
an e-mail to clients. “A fairly bad one in which the economy
grows at a 1 1/2 percent to 2 percent rate through the middle of
next year and the  unemployment  rate rises moderately to 10
percent, and a very bad one in which the economy returns to an
outright recession.”  The Federal Reserve will probably move to spur growth as
soon as its next meeting on Nov. 2-3, Hatzius said. Expectations
for central bank action have already led to lower interest  rates ,
higher stock prices and a weaker dollar, according to Goldman,
one of the 18 primary dealers that are required to bid at
government debt sales.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his fellow policy makers
are debating whether to increase Treasury purchases to spur the
U.S. economy by keeping borrowing costs low. U.S. five-year
yields dropped to a record 1.1755 percent today amid signs the
recovery is losing momentum.  The “fairly bad” outlook for slow growth and rising
unemployment without a recession will probably be the one that
occurs, the e-mail said.  Renewed Recession  Hatzius’ note reiterated comments he made yesterday at a
forum in Washington, when he placed the odds of a renewed
recession at 25 percent to 30 percent. He told reporters that
was up from 15 percent to 20 percent at the start of the year.  Another $1 trillion of asset purchases by the Fed would
probably lower long-term interest rates by about 0.25 percentage
point, adding a “few tenths of additional GDP growth,” he said
yesterday.  The Fed bought $1.7 trillion worth of Treasury and mortgage
debt in a program that ended in March. The purchases helped push
 mortgage rates  to historic lows.  New York Fed President  William Dudley , the Boston Fed’s
 Eric Rosengren  and Chicago’s  Charles Evans  have all advocated
further Fed action. Bernanke said Oct. 4 that restarting large-
scale asset purchases would probably spur growth, after saying
last week the central bank has a duty to aid the economy as
unemployment holds near 10 percent.  Investors forecasting Fed purchases pushed two-year
Treasury yields to a record low of 0.3987 percent on Oct. 4. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.1 percent yesterday to the
highest level since May.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, slumped 0.9 percent yesterday to the lowest
since January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 