-- Honda Plans $600 China Motorbike to Take On Emerging Rivals
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2010-10-07T03:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/honda-planning-600-motorbike-to-take-on-emerging-chinese-indian-rivals.html
Honda Motor Co. , the world’s largest
motorcycle maker, plans to introduce a new motorbike that may be
its cheapest to raise sales in emerging markets amid rising
competition from Chinese and Indian rivals.  Honda will build and sell the two-wheeler for as little as
4,000 yuan ($599) in China starting next year and also introduce
it in Nigeria and Latin America,  Tatsuhiro Oyama , senior
managing director in charge of Honda’s motorcycle operations,
said in an interview in Tokyo last week.  Emerging-market rivals “will really push into this area,”
he said. “Honda needs to be right there with them so we won’t
get bypassed.” The company will compete with Chinese and Indian
motorcycle makers, targeting low-income customers in other
developing “next markets,” Oyama said.  The new model may boost Honda’s revenue as demand for
motorcycles weakens in Japan, Europe and the U.S. Higher
emerging-market sales may also offset potentially lower profits
repatriated from the company’s Indian unit Hero Honda Motors Ltd.
as KKR & Co., TPG Capital, Carlyle Group and Bain Capital LLC
compete to acquire a part of Honda’s 26 percent stake, according
to five people with direct knowledge of the situation.  Cheapest Motorcycle  Shares of Tokyo-based  Honda  fell 0.3 percent to 3,015 yen
as of 12:38 p.m. in Tokyo. The stock has fallen 3.1 percent in
2010, compared with an 8 percent drop for the benchmark Nikkei
225 stock average.  Currently, the company’s cheapest motorcycle in China is
the 100cc Wave that retails for 4,600 yuan, while in India the
36,350-rupee ($817) 97cc CD-Dawn is its lowest priced model.
Honda’s most expensive offering is the 1,800cc  Gold Wing  that
sells for 3.68 million yen ($44,370) in Japan.  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. , based in Mumbai, last week
unveiled two motorcycles for sale in India, Africa, Southeast
Asia and Latin America. Bajaj Auto Ltd., India’s second-largest
two-wheeler maker, aims to roughly triple its global market
share to 30 percent by boosting overseas sales.  China’s motorcycle makers are benefiting from low-cost
suppliers and support from the nation’s government, Oyama said.  Two of the buyout funds interested in Honda’s stake in Hero
Honda may jointly buy about 15 percent, valued at $1.1 billion,
three of the people said, declining to be named before an
official announcement, Bloomberg News reported Sept. 17. Another
5 percent may be sold to the Hero Group’s Munjal family, which
holds a  26 percent stake  in the New Delhi-based company, two of
the people said.  Munjal Family  The Munjal family “has its own intentions, and we are
considering them,” Oyama said. “You should understand that we
are not really taking the initiative on this matter.”  Honda and the Hero Group are in discussions about renewing
a technology-licensing agreement that expires in 2014, Oyama
said.  Emerging economies are offering Honda’s  motorbike division 
opportunities for growth. While unit sales plunged 41 percent in
North America last fiscal year, they rose 1.4 percent in Asia
outside of Japan.  In India, Honda is expanding an existing motorcycle plant
and building a new plant to add 2.2 million units of capacity
next year at Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India Pvt., a wholly
owned unit.  Hero Honda  Hero Honda, maker of half the motorcycles sold in India,
will add 300,000 units of capacity by January.  Vehicle development is undertaken by Honda, and Hero Honda
targets customers in rural areas, while Honda’s wholly-owned
unit focuses on urban markets, he said.  Separately, Honda is grappling with a strong yen, which
traded at 82.88 against the dollar today, close to a Sept. 15
record, reducing the value of repatriated profits from exports.  “The yen at anywhere between 90 and 110 makes things
difficult,” Oyama said.  Honda builds motorcycles at its plant in Kumamoto
prefecture in southern Japan, which exports large leisure models
to the U.S.  As demand in developed markets dwindles, Honda is
increasing production overseas with 56 percent of Japanese
motorcycle sales imported from abroad. That ratio will rise,
Oyama said.  While the strong yen cuts Japan’s competitiveness, large
motorcycles require a high level of production quality and
development that cannot be replicated overseas, he said.  “We still need production in Japan,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net ; 