-- Moody's `Tickety-Boo' Greek Recovery Optimism Is Unfounded, Matrix Says
-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 2010-10-06T09:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/moody-s-tickety-boo-greek-recovery-optimism-is-unfounded-matrix-says.html
Moody’s Investors Service’s optimism
that Greece’s current pace of reforms will lead to an upgrade of
the nation’s debt isn’t backed by evidence that a recovery is
taking hold, according to Matrix Corporate Capital LLP.  “I remain skeptical,”  Bill Blain , co-head of fixed income
at London-based investment bank Matrix, said in a note to
clients today. “I’d prefer to see the evidence -- clear proof
Greek tax revenues are increasing rather than tax-amnesties,
growth to pay off debt, a bottom-up overhaul of state welfare
and spending cuts being enacted long-term, an end to pork-barrel
politics, and visible signs of recovery.”  Moody’s said yesterday it was “impressed” with Greece’s
progress, just three months after cutting the nation’s credit
rating to junk as it struggled to rein in the euro region’s
second-biggest budget deficit. The risk to the country’s
sovereign grade “is to the upside” if the reforms continue,
 Anthony Thomas , a London-based senior analyst at the ratings
company, said at a credit conference in Warsaw.  In its decision to cut Greece’s rating to Ba1 from A3,
Moody’s cited “substantial” risks to economic growth from the
austerity measures tied to a 110 billion-euro ($152 billion) aid
package from the European Union and the International Monetary
Fund. Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said on Oct. 4
that the country’s budget deficit will narrow to 7 percent of
economic output in 2011, about half of last year’s level, after
the government cut spending and raised taxes to secure the EU-
led rescue and avoid default.  “For anyone who isn’t a complete imbecile, its blindingly
obvious Greece’s recovery might just be being massively talked
up by those who have a vested interest in us believing
everything in Europe is tickety-boo,” Blain wrote. “Greece’s
problems haven’t suddenly been fixed over the last 12 months
since the magnitude of the crisis became apparent. At best the
problems have been identified -- but they aren’t solved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  