-- OppenheimerFunds Names Steinmetz as Investment Chief as Leavy Departs Firm
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-10-06T21:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/oppenheimerfunds-names-steinmetz-chief-investment-officer-leavy-to-depart.html
OppenheimerFunds Inc. named  Art Steinmetz  chief investment officer of the asset-management firm,
expanding his role as equity head  Christopher Leavy  departs.  Steinmetz previously was investment chief of fixed income,
the New York-based company said today in a statement. Leavy, who
oversaw stock funds, is leaving to join BlackRock Inc., that
firm said in a separate statement.  Under Chief Executive Officer  Bill Glavin , who joined in
November 2008, OppenheimerFunds has reorganized its investment
team after record losses from its bond funds during the credit
crisis. Former investment chief  Kurt Wolfgruber  left
OppenheimerFunds in April 2009, while Steinmetz and Leavy took
over the management of bonds and equities.  “We have to demonstrate every day that active management
is worth what we charge for it,” Steinmetz said in a telephone
interview.  Steinmetz, who joined OppenheimerFunds in 1986, will
continue to be co-manager of  Oppenheimer International Bond
Fund , the Global Strategic Income Fund and the Oppenheimer
Global Allocation Fund. Steinmetz’s International Bond Fund rose
an average of 9.1 percent over the past five years, beating 91
percent of similarly managed funds, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The firm also announced that  George Evans , previously
director of non-U.S. equities, will be director of the firm’s
stock-fund units.  Krishna Memani  was named director of the
fixed-income group.  Investment Outlook  As the fallout from the global credit crisis has abated,
the firm is seeing the best value in “high-quality stocks and
low-quality bonds,” Steinmetz said.  “On the bond side, taking on credit risk is the optimal
strategy, while stock investors should be favoring high-quality
companies with strong cash flow and a good dividend yield,” he
said.  OppenheimerFunds has rebuilt its investment unit and its
risk-management analysis after the  Oppenheimer Champion Income
Fund  plunged 79 percent in 2008 while the  Oppenheimer Core Bond
Fund  fell 36 percent because of wrong-way bets on mortgage-
backed securities. The losses resulted in lawsuits by states
that had picked the firm to manage their college-savings plans.
OppenheimerFunds settled with states such as Oregon and New
Mexico.  OppenheimerFunds, a unit of insurer Massachusetts Mutual
Life Insurance Co., manages about $165 billion in assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  