-- Horace Mann CEO Steps Down After Being Jailed for Driving Under Influence
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-10-06T22:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/horace-mann-ceo-steps-down-after-being-jailed-for-driving-under-influence.html
Horace Mann Educators Corp. , which
sells insurance to public school employees, said Chief Executive
Officer  Louis Lower  has resigned after being jailed for driving
under the influence.  Peter Heckman  has been promoted to CEO from chief financial
officer, the Springfield, Illinois-based company said today in a
statement distributed by PR Newswire.  Lower, who had served 10 years as CEO, was placed on leave
last month after being sentenced to 60 days in jail. The Horace
Mann board said in September that Lower would remain CEO of the
company.  The board has “concluded its investigation of all the
facts and, with Lower’s retirement and resignations, has ended
its consideration of any further disciplinary action,” the
company said in a statement.  Horace Mann has posted a  profit  since Lower became CEO in
2000. The company dropped around seven percent in the period
from Lower’s becoming CEO through Sept. 10, the last trading day
before his arrest was disclosed.  Lower’s Arrest  Lower hit another car while driving into the opposing lane
of traffic in Vero Beach, Florida over Memorial Day weekend in
May. He responded to police questions and orders with a “blank
stare,” and later “fell against his vehicle on the ground”
according to the arrest report.  Lower refused to take a sobriety test and to give a breath
sample to the police, the arrest report said. Police obtained a
search warrant and took a blood sample to find Lower’s alcohol
content, which was over the legal limit, the report said.  He pleaded guilty to the charge of DUI with property damage
on Aug. 2 and was sentenced to 60 days in  Indian River County
jail  on Sept. 8. He began serving his sentence the same day.  Prosecutor  “I thought the jail sentence was appropriate in the case
because of the seriousness of the traffic crash, the impact it
had on the victims, and Mr. Lower’s unwillingness to cooperate
with the DUI investigation,” said David Dodd, the prosecutor in
the case, in a phone interview on Sept. 17. Lower’s lawyer,
Andrew Metcalf, did not respond to requests for comment.  The passengers in the car that Lower hit were two
teenagers, who reported no injuries at the time of the accident,
according to the arrest report. They later complained of back
pain and migraines resulting from the accident in letters they
wrote to the court about Lower’s sentencing.  Board Informed  Lower told some people at the company of his arrest in
mid-July, according to the company’s spokesman,  Richard Madden .
The board was informed on Sept. 9, after Lower had begun to
serve his sentence. The board announced on Sept. 13 that they
would place Lower on a leave of absence, retroactive to Sept. 9,
while he served his jail sentence. Heckman, the CFO, has been
serving as interim CEO while Lower was in jail.  “The board should have been notified immediately and it is
completely unacceptable that such a delay was allowed to
happen,” said  Paul Hodgson , a senior research associate from
the Corporate Library, a corporate governance research and
analysis company. The delay “makes the board look stupid and
the executives duplicitous,” said Hodgson in an e-mail on Sept.
20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at   dkraut@bloomberg.net . 