-- Morgan Stanley-Backed Oberoi to Lead $3 Billion in India Realty IPO Sales
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   P a r e s h   J a t a k i a
-- 2010-10-06T06:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/morgan-stanley-backed-oberoi-to-lead-3-billion-in-india-realty-ipo-sales.html
Oberoi Realty Ltd. , a Morgan Stanley-
backed developer, began selling shares in an initial public
offering today, testing demand for property IPOs in India after
a five-month lull.  Oberoi, which mostly develops residential real estate in
Mumbai, aims to raise as much as 10.3 billion rupees ($231
million) from the sale. The company, founded by billionaire
 Vikas Oberoi , will sell 39.5 million shares for as much as 260
rupees each, according to an e-mailed statement.  The success of Oberoi’s IPO may prompt $3 billion of
property share sales at a time when real estate stocks have
underperformed the Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive
Index. The BSE Realty Index has gained 1.4 percent this year,
compared with a 17 percent advance in the  Sensex .  Oberoi “operates in the Mumbai market, which is very
resilient, and the background of the promoters is strong,” said
 Anubhav Gupta , an analyst with Kim Eng Securities India Pvt. in
Mumbai. “Strong demand and high prices in Mumbai will result in
a good set of numbers” for Oberoi’s earnings.  Demand for luxury apartments in India is rising as the
biggest rally in stocks in 18 years boosts the ranks of the
affluent in the third-fastest growing major economy. The South
Asian nation has 84,000 millionaires, according to the 2009
World Wealth Report by Cap Gemini SA and Merrill Lynch Wealth
Management. The number of millionaires in India is expected to
triple between 2008 and 2018, according to the report.  Billionaire City  About 40 percent of India’s 52 billionaires, the most in
Asia after China, live in Mumbai, according to Forbes magazine.  That has helped Oberoi make it to the Forbes billionaire
list of India’s richest, ranking 46th with a net worth of $1.4
billion. Oberoi, 41, has built the 11.2 million square feet
Oberoi Garden City complex, which houses the Westin Hotel, in
the city’s north. He recently bought himself a single-engine,
four-seater Cirrus airplane, according to Forbes.  Indian realty companies such as  Lodha Developers Ltd.  and
Emaar MGF Land Ltd. are among at least 11 builders waiting to
tap the market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  IPO Size Cut  Emaar MGF, a joint venture with the United Arab Emirates’
biggest developer, reduced the size of its initial share sale to
16 billion rupees, two people with direct knowledge of the
matter said Sept. 30. The builder, a unit of  Emaar Properties
PJSC , abandoned plans to raise as much as 70.8 billion rupees in
February 2008 even after cutting the offer price as global
equity markets slumped, the company said at the time.  The planned $3 billion of share sales by Indian real estate
companies would be the most since $4.3 billion was raised by
developers in 2007, according to Bloomberg data.  Real estate IPOs in India will have to compete with state-
owned companies for investor interest. India’s government plans
to raise $8.9 billion selling shares in companies it owns in the
fiscal year through March 2011 -- more than half the total value
of all of last year’s offerings in the nation.  Oberoi plans to use the proceeds from the IPO to complete
pending projects and buy land in Mumbai, Oberoi, who is managing
director, has said.  “Mumbai, being the archetypal city of opportunity,
generates an unprecedented demand for properties across the
residential, commercial and retail sectors,” said  Anuj Puri ,
Mumbai-based chairman of Jones Lang LaSalle Meghraj.  Saleable Area  The builder is currently working on 13 projects with
another 11 being planned, according to its offer document. The
total saleable area of these projects is expected to be about
20.25 million square feet.  “Oberoi has a strong presence in Mumbai, the cr‘eme of
Indian real estate,’’ said Mumbai-based Aashiesh Agarwaal, an
analyst at Edelweiss Securities Ltd. The developer has more than
90 percent of its land bank in the suburbs and the city.  The company has kept its balance sheet in check and its
construction costs are largely funded through internal accruals
in the form of pre-sales and rental income from premium
properties, Agarwaal said. He has a ‘‘subscribe’’ rating on the
stock at 253 rupees, the lowest end of the IPO price range.  Oberoi’s profit rose 84 percent to 4.6 billion rupees in
the year ended March 31, 2010. Sales climbed 77 percent to 8.05
billion rupees.  A  Morgan Stanley  real estate fund in January 2007 invested
6.75 billion rupees for a 10.76 percent stake in Oberoi,
according to the offer document.  Kotak Mahindra Capital Co., Enam Securities Pvt., J.P.
Morgan India Pvt. and Morgan Stanley India Co. are managing the
sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
 Paresh Jatakia  in Mumbai at 
 pareshj@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  