-- `Manhattanization' of Los Angeles Spurs $30 Million Parking Lot Listing
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-10-06T16:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/los-angeles-s-manhattanization-spurs-listing-of-30-million-parking-lot.html
A Los Angeles parking lot adjacent to
the Staples Center sports arena is on the market for about $30
million as the “Manhattanization” of the once-moribund
downtown spurs development of hotels, restaurants and retail.  The 2.73-acre (1.1-hectare) property has garnered interest
from developers, U.S. funds and foreign investors, said Jeff
Adkison, an executive vice president with  Jones Lang LaSalle ,
which has the listing. The lot is across the street from the
arena where the Lakers basketball team plays. An undeveloped
plot downtown hasn’t sold for more since at least 2008,
according to research company Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Luxury hotel, residential and retail developers are betting
on the continued resurgence of downtown Los Angeles, an area
once dominated by government buildings, law offices and banks.
Venues including the L.A. Live entertainment complex, across
from Staples Center and home to a Katsuya sushi restaurant and
Club Nokia, are luring tourists and locals from such better-
known hot spots as Beverly Hills and Santa Monica.  “It’s what’s been called the Manhattanization of Los
Angeles,” Adkison said in a telephone interview. “Ultimately,
the site will end up as a high-rise luxury hotel or multifamily
luxury living.”  The Ritz-Carlton, downtown L.A.’s first five-star hotel,
and the high-end JW Marriott, which share the same tower, opened
earlier this year, bringing new meeting space and hundreds of
rooms to the area. The two hotels are next to L.A. Live.  Some developers had to halt their downtown Los Angeles
hotel projects because of the credit crunch and U.S. recession.
Plans for a five-star  Mandarin Oriental  were put on hold when
the Grand Avenue residential, hotel and retail project planned
by New York-based Related Cos. stalled in 2008.  ‘Uber-Hip’ Area  “The condo market has gone dead in downtown because of so
much supply,” said  Jack Kyser , chief economic adviser at the
Southern California Association of Governments. “There’s more
of a need for hotel rooms. Downtown, in terms of restaurants and
bars, is what you call uber-hip.”  The parking lot is on 12th Street between Figueroa and
Flower streets. The plot is zoned for multifamily residential,
hotel, retail and office development, according to Chicago-based
Jones Lang LaSalle.  The most expensive development site to sell downtown since
January 2008 was a 914,760-square-foot (84,984-square-meter)
property on Alameda Street, which went for $25 million two and a
half years ago, New York-based  Real Capital  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  