-- Motorola's Handset Spinoff May Come Early Next Year, CEO Says
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-06T20:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/motorola-unveils-six-new-phones-to-tap-surging-android-demand.html
Motorola Inc.  may spin off its
mobile-phone business early in the first quarter of next year,
co-Chief Executive Officer  Sanjay Jha  said in an interview.  Motorola has said in the past it would separate the handset
business and a set-top box division from the rest of the company
during the first quarter. The company may be able to complete
the transaction near the beginning of that period, Jha said.  “The spin is looking good for first quarter, the early
part of first quarter,” he said during the interview at an
event in San Francisco.  Jha’s comments came as  Motorola  unveiled six new
smartphones including a version of its Droid handset for
business users. The company is rebuilding its handset business
around Google Inc.’s Android software, capitalizing on surging
demand for devices that use the software.  “Get ready, Motorola is bringing Android-based smartphones
to all consumers,” Jha said at the event yesterday.  Android, free software that’s also used in phones from  HTC
Corp.  and  Samsung Electronics Co. , has become the most popular
operating system in the U.S. among new smartphone buyers,
passing  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and  Research In Motion Ltd. ’s
BlackBerry platforms, according to Nielsen Co. While BlackBerry
retained the top spot among U.S. smartphone owners overall with
a 31 percent share, its lead is declining, Nielsen said.  Motorola  fell 8 cents to $8.56 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock has climbed 10 percent
this year.  ‘Innovation Race’  AT&T Inc. , the second-largest U.S. wireless operator, said
yesterday it will soon start selling three of those Motorola
phones, the Bravo, Flipout and Flipside, ranging in price from
$79.99 to $129.99 with a two-year contract.  Other Motorola phones introduced yesterday include the
Citrus and Spice aimed at consumers. The Droid Pro, targeted at
professionals, comes loaded with business software and
additional security, Schaumburg, Illinois-based  Motorola  said.  The company first announced plans for a corporate split in
2008 under pressure from billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , who
argued such a move would help Motorola’s stock price. Icahn has
boosted his stake as the spinoff approached, disclosing Aug. 31
that he had increased his total holdings to 250.4 million shares
or about 11 percent in the company.  Jha in the interview said companies that make Android
phones are pushing to develop valuable new features so they can
differentiate their devices from other phones using the
software, as well as from the BlackBerry and iPhone.  “This is now an innovation race,” Jha said in the
interview. “It’s a good thing for consumers and for carriers.”  More Tiered Pricing  Jha called for wireless carriers to follow AT&T’s lead in
offering tiered-pricing for data plans. Such plans attract more
customers to smartphones because they can get service that is
lower priced than the unlimited data plans.  “We think this is going to be the beginning of a seismic
shift in telephony,” he said.  Jha also said Motorola will consider using the next version
of  Microsoft Corp. ’s Windows operating system, when it is
tailored for tablet computers. Motorola has in the past made
phones that use Microsoft software.  Jha said in June that Motorola plans to unveil 20
smartphones this year after introducing nine since October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 