-- Motorola Sues Apple Over Patents for IPad, IPhone
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-06T20:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/motorola-unit-sues-apple-claiming-ipad-iphone-infringe-patent.html
A  Motorola Inc.  unit filed three
lawsuits and a trade complaint against  Apple Inc. , alleging the
maker of the iPad computer tablet and iPhone mobile phone is
infringing 18 of its patents.  The  complaints  were filed today by Motorola Mobility Inc.,
the mobile phone making unit of Schaumburg, Illinois-based
 Motorola  that the parent plans to spin off as it divides its
businesses among two successor companies.  Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville, Illinois, alleges
that Apple’s iPhone, iPad and MacBook computers infringe patents
for a method for distributing message traffic, among others.
Motorola seeks injunctions to block the infringement.  “Apple’s infringing activities have caused and will
continue to cause Motorola irreparable harm,” according to one
of the complaints in federal court in Chicago.  Kristin Huguet , an Apple spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Motorola may spin off its phone and television set-top box
business as soon as the first quarter, co-Chief Executive
Officer  Sanjay K. Jha  said yesterday at an event in San
Francisco. The company’s two-way radio and bar code units will
be called Motorola Solutions.  Jha’s comments came as Motorola unveiled six smartphones
including a version of its Droid handset for business users. The
company is rebuilding its handset business around  Google Inc. ’s
Android software.  IPhone, Android  While Cupertino, California-based  Apple  derived more than
$13 billion in sales from its iPhones last year,  Google ’s
Android software has become the most popular operating system in
the U.S. among new smartphone buyers in the past six months,
passing the iPhone and  Research in Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry
platforms, according to Nielsen Co.  “After Apple’s late entry into the telecommunications
market, we engaged in lengthy negotiations,” Motorola Mobility
Vice President Kirk Dailey said in a statement, “but Apple
refused to take a license.”  Motorola accused Apple of infringing six patents in a
second case in Chicago. The third case, also involving six
patents, was filed in federal court in Miami.  Motorola also filed a complaint with the  International
Trade Commission  accusing Apple of infringing 18 patents. The
company asked the commission to launch an investigation with the
ultimate goal of blocking Apple from importing infringing
products to the U.S. and halting their advertising, marketing
and distribution.  The cases are Motorola Mobility Inc. v Apple Inc.,
10-cv-06381, and 10-cv-06385, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago); and Motorola Mobility Inc. v.
Apple Inc., 10-cv-23580, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 