-- House Republicans Wary of Fed Asset Purchase Plan, Garrett Says
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2010-10-06T22:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/house-republicans-concerned-fed-asset-purchase-to-fan-bubble-garrett-says.html
New Jersey Representative  Scott Garrett  said House Republicans are concerned that another round
of large-scale bond purchases by the Federal Reserve could fan
an asset bubble or validate more deficit spending by Congress.  “I have concerns,” said Garrett, a Republican member of
the House Financial Services Committee, which oversees the Fed.
“A substantial number of my Republican colleagues would have
concerns with the Fed taking this action.”  U.S. central bankers have kept their benchmark lending rate
near zero for almost two years, and may be preparing for another
round of bond purchases to boost growth. In March, they finished
$1.7 trillion in purchases of Treasuries, mortgage-backed
securities, and housing agency bonds. Chicago Fed President
 Charles Evans  told the Wall Street Journal yesterday that “much
more accommodation” is needed to get the economy back to full
employment and stable prices.  “We could just be seeing the Fed just repeating its
process of creating another bubble,” Garrett said in a
telephone interview today. “Economists would indicate that they
are already potentially starting out there in certain
commodities.”  Commodities rose to the highest in almost two years on
speculation central banks around the world will provide
additional monetary stimulus. The Bank of Japan yesterday
pledged to keep its benchmark interest rate at “virtually
zero” and set up a 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) fund to buy
government bonds and other assets.  Worldwide Repercussions  Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  also said the
Federal Reserve’s policy of cutting interest rates to a record
low has had repercussions worldwide, including currency
misalignments and the risk of asset price bubbles.  “Fed policy was supposed to reignite the American economy,
but it’s not doing that,” Stiglitz, a professor at Columbia
University in New York, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today. “The flood of liquidity is going abroad and causing
problems all over the world.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials rose
as much as 0.6 percent to 559.976, the highest level since Oct.
7, 2008, before paring gains. The UBS Bloomberg Constant
Maturity Commodity Index climbed to 1,442.24, the highest since
Aug. 29, 2008. Gold futures rose to a record, topping at $1,351
an ounce, and silver futures extended a rally to a 30-year high.  Growth Slowdown  A slowdown in growth in the middle two quarters of this
year prompted the Federal Open Market Committee last month to
warn that inflation rates were “somewhat below” its mandate to
achieve stable prices and full employment, raising expectations
that the U.S. central bank will consider an additional round of
Treasury purchases at its two-day meeting Nov. 2-3. The Fed’s
balance sheet currently stands at $2.3 trillion in total assets.  Garrett said Republicans are also concerned that additional
Fed action would provide a backstop for deficit spending.  “You don’t have to get spending under control if you know
that the Fed is always there to buy up every Treasury,” Garrett
said. “This just facilitates the reckless behavior that the
Congress has been on for the last several years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  