-- Toyota U.S. Shareholders File Consolidated Complaint on Vehicle Recalls
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/toyota-u-s-shareholders-file-consolidated-complaint-update1-.html
Toyota Motor Corp.  was accused by
U.S. investors of violating securities law by failing to
disclose acceleration-related defects that it knew about,
according to a consolidated complaint in a class-action lawsuit.  The shareholders, led by the  Maryland State Retirement and
Pension System , said in the Oct. 4 filing in federal court in
Los Angeles that internal documents show  Toyota  deliberately
concealed unintended sudden acceleration problems in the U.S.
They said the company knew about the defects as early as 2000
and “stonewalled” regulators to avoid recalls.  “As government regulators and the media began to focus on
this serious safety problem in the Toyota vehicles, defendants
initially denied that any unintended acceleration problem
existed, despite a plethora of internal evidence to the
contrary, and instead blamed driver error and media-induced
publicity,” the investors said.  Toyota’s recalls related to sudden acceleration defects
have erased $30 billion in market capitalization, the investors
said. The Maryland pension fund seeks to represent investors who
bought Toyota’s  American depositary receipts  from May 10, 2005,
to Feb. 2, 2010.  The fund also wants to represent investors who bought the
carmaker’s common stock in domestic transactions during that
period as well as, through claims made under Japanese law, all
investors who bought the common stock during that time,
according to the complaint.  Common Stock  U.S. District Judge  Dale Fischer , who is overseeing the
 case , said in July that a U.S. Supreme Court decision may
exclude securities-law claims by investors in Toyota’s  common
stock .  Gerald Silk , a lawyer for the Maryland fund, said in August
that the decision as to which claims will be allowed to proceed
will be made through a motion to seek class certification or a
motion to dismiss the complaint.  “Toyota believes that the claims contained in the recently
filed shareholder securities consolidated complaint are
unfounded,”  Celeste Migliore , a spokeswoman for Toyota Motor
Sales USA in Torrance, California, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “We look forward to presenting our position to the
court.”  The case is In re Toyota Motor Corp. Securities Litigation,
10-00922, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 