-- Peru Sol Declines After Central Bank Creates New Local Dollar Securities
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-10-06T14:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/peru-central-bank-s-new-dollar-certificates-may-temper-sol-appreciation.html
Peru’s sol weakened after the
central bank introduced new securities designed to encourage
investors to put dollars into instruments besides the currency
and local debt.  The sol slid 0.1 percent to 2.7910 per U.S. dollar at 10:30
a.m. New York time, from 2.7870 yesterday.  Starting today, Peru’s central bank said investors can buy
certificates of deposit redeemable in U.S. dollars. The
certificates may give investors a way to benefit from rising
Peruvian interest rates without increasing demand for the sol,
said  Roberto Flores , an economist at Inteligo SAB in Lima.  “Peru’s capital markets are not very deep and the
certificates will be another instrument that local and foreign
investors can look at investing in,” Flores said in a telephone
interview. “The central bank is giving investors a secure place
to put their dollars.”  The central bank announced the creation of the securities
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The bank also created
certificates of deposit with variable interest rates tied to its
 benchmark lending rate .  Additionally, it cut the minimum level for banks’ overnight
deposits to $1 million from $10 million.  “These new monetary instruments will allow liquidity in
the financial system to be regulated,” the bank said.  Foreign capital inflows attracted by Peru’s rising interest
rates have pushed the sol up 3.6 percent against the dollar this
year. In response, the central bank has  purchased  $8.8 billion
this year and raised banks’ reserve requirements four times
since June to temper the currency’s gains. The sol is the fifth-
best performer among the seven Latin American currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  The certificates will “help mitigate the stronger trend in
the sol,” Flores said.  Strong domestic demand may lead central bank policy makers
to raise the  benchmark lending rate  for a sixth straight month
tomorrow, according to 12 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Domestic credit surged 19 percent in August from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  