-- Petters Group U.S. Bankruptcy Trustee Sues Minnesota Firm for $105 Million
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2010-10-06T22:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/petters-group-u-s-bankruptcy-trustee-sues-minnesota-firm-for-105-million.html
The bankruptcy trustee for Petters
Group Worldwide LLC, whose founder was convicted of fraud last
year, sued a Minneapolis investment firm seeking to recoup at
least $105 million for creditors.  The trustee’s complaint, filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Minneapolis, alleges that Arrowhead Capital Management
LLC and affiliated funds could be liable for as much as
$5.1 billion transferred to them over more than 10 years.  Thomas Petters  was convicted by a federal jury in St. Paul,
Minnesota, of leading a $3.5 billion Ponzi scheme and sentenced
to 50 years in prison in April. Arrowhead and its affiliates
received money from Petters that had come from other investors,
the trustee said.  “Defendants knew or should have known that they were
benefiting from fraudulent activity or, at a minimum, failed to
exercise reasonable due diligence with respect to Petters” and
its affiliates, according to the complaint filed by Douglas
Kelley, the trustee.  James Fry , Arrowhead’s founder, didn’t return a voicemail
message left today at his office seeking comment. Kelley
described Fry as a sophisticated investor who allegedly formed
entities specifically for investing in Petters’s business.  The 154-page 17-count complaint cites Minnesota’s
Fraudulent Transfer Act and corresponding federal laws as
authority. The Chapter 11 estate can demand the return of funds
transferred during the six years preceding discovery of the
Petters’s fraud, according to Kelley. To recover money, the
trustee said, he doesn’t need to prove Arrowhead was aware of
the scheme.  Clawback Suits  Kelley has filed more than 200 other so-called clawback
suits since Sept. 1, including 13 more cases today against
individuals from whom he’s collectively seeking more than
$8.4 million.  Many of the suits seek small amounts that Petters donated
to charities or paid to individual investors. The Arrowhead
lawsuit is the largest so far. The trustee yesterday sued a
Houston investment firm, Ark Royal Capital LLC, seeking to
recoup $1.2 million for the estate.  “All funds received by defendants were inextricably
intertwined with the Ponzi scheme and were derived from monies
fraudulently obtained,” according to the Arrowhead complaint.  The bankruptcy case is In Re Petters Co., 08-45257, and the
lawsuit is Kelley v. Metro I LLC, 10-04328, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Minnesota (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Beth Hawkins  in St. Paul, Minnesota, at 
 hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 