-- Pfizer May Sell Capsugel Unit, Maker of Drug Capsules
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-10-06T20:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/pfizer-to-review-strategic-alternatives-for-capsugel.html
Pfizer Inc.  may sell its Capsugel
business, which makes gelatin capsules for drugs and dietary
supplements, after a review that will be completed in the first
quarter of 2011.  Capsugel, the smallest of Pfizer’s nine business units, had
 revenue  of $740 million last year. Pfizer is “reviewing
strategic alternatives,” which may include a sale, the New
York-based company said in a statement today.  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, is looking to offset
some of the revenue it will start losing next year, when the
company faces competition from cheaper generic copies of its
cholesterol pill Lipitor, which had $11.4 billion in sales last
year. Pfizer gained Capsugel with its acquisition of Warner-
Lambert Co. for $116 billion in 2000.  “Pfizer has the Lipitor patent coming up and they might
just want the extra cash to bolster themselves,” said  Les Funtleyder , a health-care analyst with New York-based Miller
Tabak & Co., in a telephone interview. “Capsugel is an asset
that seems like it might be better off somewhere else. If you’re
Pfizer, do you really want what amounts to be an outsourcing and
manufacturing business?”  Funtleyder said Capsugel won’t demand a “massive premium
price,” because it is largely a manufacturing business.  Pfizer hired Morgan Stanley to conduct a strategic review
for the unit, a process that will be completed by the end of the
first quarter of next year, according to today’s statement.  Pfizer rose 3 cents to $17.26 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The  stock  has declined 5.1 percent
this year.  Every health-care spinoff in the last 15 years has
increased shareholder value, wrote analyst  Jami Rubin  of Goldman
Sachs in a Sept. 21 note. Pfizer would have the most to gain of
all the big pharmaceutical companies from a spinoff, she wrote.  Goldman rates Pfizer a “buy,” “but see further upside
potential if they took aggressive action to unlock value in non-
core assets,” wrote Rubin, who is based in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 