-- Roth Unleashes Polio on School Playground, Plays God: Review
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/philip-roth-unleashes-polio-on-school-playground-plays-god-book-review.html
Since 2006,  Philip Roth  has been
turning out short, devastating novels at the rate of one a
year. Now he has come up with a collective name for them --
Nemeses -- taken from the title of his newest one, a
disturbing story about polio in 1944. It’s called
“ Nemesis .”  Nemesis was the shadowy Greek goddess of retribution,
and these books tell terrible stories of destruction and,
usually, death. The name is sometimes translated as
“righteous anger,” yet there’s no righteousness in the
fates Roth visits on his characters, who suffer, like real
people, regardless of their goodness or their failings.  These are stories about the enigma of misfortune.
Plato called us playthings of the gods; Roth plays god with
his characters, cruelly. And it sometimes seems as if he’s
cruelest with those who are most blameless, like Swede
Levov, the heartbroken father at the center of the 1997
“ American Pastoral ,” and, now, the “profoundly decent”
young hero of “Nemesis.”  Twenty-three-year-old Bucky Cantor is the new gym
teacher at a Newark school and the school’s summer
playground director.  Comrade, Leader  Mr. Cantor, as he’s called throughout -- because the
story is narrated by one of the boys who was under his
supervision during the terrible summer of 1944 -- is “the
most exemplary and revered authority we knew, a young man
of convictions, easygoing, kind, fair-minded, thoughtful,
stable, gentle, vigorous, muscular -- a comrade and leader
both.”  He’s the kind of virile, physically fearless man Roth
admires, and at the same time the kind of irony-free, less-
than-brilliant good citizen for whom Roth doesn’t mask his
pity and contempt. The author describes Mr. Cantor’s life
of good works with the tenderness and warm nostalgia he
habitually brings to his memories of Newark, the city of
his youth.  But this is also the Roth who’s as dry-eyed and
implacable as an executioner. The novel begins on a note of
foreboding: “The first case of polio that summer came early
in June ...” The dread mounts gradually until, at a few
points, I had to stop (as I’ve had to in all of Roth’s
recent books) to remind myself that what I was reading was
only a story.  Romancing Miss Steinberg  There’s beauty, too -- in the charming depiction of
Mr. Cantor’s romance with a first-grade teacher named
Marcia Steinberg; in descriptions of the landscape at a
Jewish sleep-away camp in the Poconos; and, always, in the
lush, unhurried prose.  And in a fireside ritual at the camp, with most of the
kids in Indian get-up and the biggest one costumed “in
somebody’s mother’s old fur coat” as “Mishi-Mokwa, the Big
Bear” (“‘I am fearless Mishi-Mokwa,’ Jerome growled from
within the coat. ‘I, the mighty mountain grizzly, king of
all the western prairies’”), there are flashes of the
humor, at once mean and irresistible, for which Roth used
to be famous.  But in this book the beauty and the humor are muted.  “Sometimes you’re lucky and sometimes you’re not,” the
author writes, laying out his theme near the end. “Any
biography is chance, and, beginning at conception, chance
-- the tyranny of contingency -- is everything.”  If those words, so utterly lacking in religious
comfort, were a little less colloquial, you might mistake
them for lines from one of the Greek tragedians. They
didn’t do comfort, and neither does Roth. He never has.  This unnerving book dwells, like the short novels that
preceded it (and the long novels that preceded them), at
the pinnacle of American writing.  “Nemesis” is from Houghton Mifflin Harcourt (280
pages, $26). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 