-- Polish Zloty Strengthens on Emerging Market Gains, Enea and Bogdanka Bids
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-06T09:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/polish-zloty-strengthens-on-emerging-market-gains-enea-and-bogdanka-bids.html
The Polish zloty appreciated for a
second day as the currency benefited from a rally in emerging-
market assets and after news of foreign bids for utility  Enea SA 
and coal producer  Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA .  The zloty strengthened 0.3 percent to 3.9397 per euro as of
11:27 a.m. in Warsaw after advancing to the highest intraday
level since Sept. 15.  Emerging-market stocks rose for a sixth day, set for the
longest winning streak in more than two months amid speculation
governments will step up efforts to stoke growth after the Bank
of Japan yesterday said it would keep rates as low as zero and
would buy as much as $60 billion of assets to keep the economy
from faltering.  There is “frenzied trading” in the emerging markets on
expectations for more quantitative easing after the Bank of
Japan’s rate cut, said  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging-market
strategist at RBC Capital in London. “The capital inflows are
also adding an extra layer of interest in the Polish currency.”  Poland’s Treasury Ministry received bids from France’s GDF
Suez SA and Electricite de France SA, Energeticky a Prumyslovy
Holding AS of the Czech Republic, and Kulczyk Holding SA of
Poland for a majority stake in third-largest utility Enea SA,
Rp.pl reported, without saying where it got the information. New
World Resources NV, the largest Czech producer of coking coal,
yesterday bid 3.4 billion zloty ($1.2 billion) to buy Bogdanka.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Oct. 4
that the central bank aided the U.S. economy through its $1.75
trillion purchases of mortgage debt and Treasuries that ended in
March 2010 and that further buying would likely help more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  