-- Polish Yields Decline at First Sale of 2013 Bonds on Supply, PKO, ING Say
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-06T12:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/polish-yields-to-drop-at-first-sale-of-2013-bonds-on-supply-pko-ing-say.html
Poland’s borrowing costs fell at the
first sale of a new series of two-year bonds as the country, one
of Europe’s fastest-growing economies, curtails debt supply and
slower inflation postpones the likelihood of interest-rate
increases.  The government sold 3.6 billion zloty ($1.26 billion) of
notes maturing in January 2013 at the auction and extra sale,
the Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed statement. The average
yield at the auction was 4.595 percent, below the 4.65 percent
predicted by PKO Bank Polski SA, ING Bank Slaski SA and Societe
Generale SA. It was also the lowest since an April 7 sale of the
current benchmark two-year bond at a yield of 4.54 percent.  Poland plans to cut fourth-quarter sales of domestic bonds
to the smallest amount this year after record overseas demand
helped cover 88 percent of government borrowing needs for 2010,
 Piotr Marczak , head of the Finance Ministry’s public debt
department, said on Sept. 30.  Inflation , which has decelerated
to a three-year low, is likely to stay near the central bank’s
2.5 percent target over the next 12 months, PAP newswire quoted
Governor  Marek Belka  as saying Oct. 4.  “It’s a combination of lower supply and a less hawkish
central bank,” said  Krzysztof Izdebski , a fixed-income trader
at PKO in Warsaw. “We saw aggressive bids from both foreign and
local players.”  Investors today placed orders for 7.6 billion zloty in what
will become the benchmark two-year bond next year, according to
the ministry. It didn’t say how much of the demand came from
international investors, who according to Marczak bought a
record 11.5 billion zloty in August.  Forwards  The yield on two-year bonds traded in the secondary debt
market dropped 3 basis points to 4.64 percent as of 2:17 p.m. in
Warsaw. A close at this level would be the lowest in almost two
weeks. The zloty eased less than 0.1 percent to 3.9520 per euro.  Traders have pared bets that borrowing costs will rise this
year, according to money-market contracts. The three-month
forward-rate agreement traded at 4.15 percent, or 42 basis
points higher than the current three-month  Warsaw Interbank
Offered Rate  of 3.73 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The spread, or differential, has narrowed from 50
basis points on Sept. 27.  The country may offer as much as 15.9 billion zloty of
bonds maturing in 2013, 2016, 2020 this quarter as well as road
bonds, the Finance Ministry said on Sept. 30. The amount will be
lower than the 26.4 billion zloty of bonds the country sold
between July and September, the least so far this year.  Economy  The European Union’s eastern members are scaling down bond
sales in the final three months of the year as they seek to
reduce budget deficits. Hungary last month lowered its 2010 plan
for net debt sales and opted to borrow more for longer
maturities. The Czech Republic has reduced debt issuance after
raising 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) from the sale of
Eurobonds last month that attracted bids at lower yields than
higher rated Italy.  Poland’s financing needs may also dwindle as economic
expansion helps boost government revenue. Gross domestic product
is likely to expand by 3.4 percent in 2010, tying with Germany
as the fastest-growing of major European economies including
Spain, France, Italy, the U.K. and the Netherlands, according to
European Commission estimates.  The Polish central bank’s “dovish rhetoric” may boost
foreign demand for bonds and strengthen the zloty, BNP Paribas
SA wrote in a note to clients last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  