-- Polish Bourse IPO to Spur `Little London' Trading Hub
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-10-06T12:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/polish-stock-exchange-ipo-to-create-little-london-trading-hub-ceo-says.html
The Warsaw Stock Exchange, preparing
for an initial public offering, plans to become the hub for
stock, bond and derivatives trading in the region, emulating
London, Chief Executive Officer  Ludwik Sobolewski  said.  “We want to create a little London, attracting
international listings and capital here,” Sobolewski said in an
interview in London today. We “have a strategy of building a
financial hub in Warsaw,” he said.  Poland is seeking to sell 64 percent of the country’s only
bourse as part of the government’s program to raise 25 billion
zloty ($8.7 billion) to help finance the 2010 budget deficit.
While Warsaw has become central Europe’s biggest equity market
by luring companies to list from the Czech Republic to
Lithuania, the bond market has been “neglected for years,”
Sobolewski said.  Financial companies and real-estate developers are likely
to sell bonds listed on the stock exchange, after Polkomtel SA,
the country’s largest mobile phone operator, raised 1 billion
zloty last month in the first such transaction on the Polish
market. City authorities in Poznan and Gdansk are planning
“significant” bond sales on the exchange’s so-called Catalyst
platform, Sobolewski said.  Company listings from Ukraine, which borders Poland, have
“by far the biggest potential” for growth in coming years,
Sobolewski said. The exchange has an office in Kiev and two
Ukrainian companies are listed in Warsaw.  ‘Education’  The Warsaw bourse, created two years after the 1989 fall of
communism, posted net income of 91 million zloty in 2009. The
government has earned 20.8 billion zloty so far this year,
selling stakes in insurance, energy, telephone, copper and coal
mining companies.  The exchange started “education meetings” with fund
managers this week and will make presentations to discuss its
IPO prospectus from Oct. 15 through Oct. 28, according to a term
sheet obtained by Bloomberg. Pricing is to be announced on Oct.
28 before the shares start trading Nov. 9.  The company, which will be the first publicly traded
exchange operator in central Europe, is awaiting approval for
the IPO from the country’s financial-services regulator after
filing its prospectus. It’s the second exchange IPO this year,
following a June listing by CBOE Holdings Inc., the last major
U.S. securities exchange owned by its members. CBOE raised $339
million selling 11.7 million shares at $29 each after offering
them at $27 to $29.  Developed Market  Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and UBS AG will be the IPO’s global coordinators. Ipopema
Securities SA, KBC Groep NV, Societe Generale SA, PKO Bank
Polski SA, Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA, Alior Bank SA, Banco
Espirito Santo SA, IDM SA and Wood & Co. will also help manage
the offering, according to the Treasury Ministry’s  website .  The Warsaw bourse is the third-largest in emerging Europe
after Moscow’s and Istanbul’s, with a market capitalization of
$185 billion and 550 equities traded on its main market and
NewConnect platform for smaller companies.  “We are somewhere between a typical emerging-market
exchange and a developed-market exchange,” Sobolewski said
today.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc  trades at 10.7 times
estimated 2011 earnings,  NYSE Euronext , the biggest operator of
U.S. stock exchanges, trades at 13.5 times and Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. is valued at 10.3 times, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  IPO Leader  The heads of the largest exchanges gather in Paris next
week for the  World Federation of Exchanges annual meeting , with
 Xavier Rolet , chief executive officer of LSE,  Duncan Niederauer ,
CEO of NYSE and  Ronald Arculli , chairman of  Hong Kong Exchanges
& Clearing Ltd.,  sharing a panel to debate “Exchange
Strategy.” The next day, Oct. 12,  Robert Greifeld , chief
executive of Nasdaq,  Atsushi Saito , President of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange and  Thomas Kloet , who heads TMX Group Inc., owner of
the Toronto Stock Exchange, discuss “New Forms of Trading.”  Poland has had the biggest number of IPOs annually in the
region since at least 2004, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Companies in the country have raised $4.35 billion in 49 IPOs
this year, with the largest offerings coming from energy utility
 Tauron Polska Energia SA  and insurer  Powszechny Zaklad
Ubezpieczen SA .  Poland hosted 1.59 billion euros ($2.2 billion) of initial
public offerings last year, placing it third in Europe behind
NYSE Euronext and London, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP. It has added 117 companies since the beginning of 2009.
Prague hasn’t had an IPO since 2008 as trading volume dropped 53
percent during the past two years.  Overtaking Austria  The Warsaw Stock Exchange listings on the main market rose
to 385 from 225 in the past decade. In the same period, the
number of companies traded in Prague dropped to 26 from 151.  The new foreign listings have helped triple the value of
Polish-traded  shares  to $189 billion since February 2009. The
market is now bigger than Austria’s at $122 billion and the
Philippines’s at $129 billion. Prague market capitalization is
$47 billion.  “There will be a number of companies coming to market,”
in the year ahead, Sobolewski said, declining to be more
specific. State-owned companies that are being privatized are
likely to be the biggest source of new listings, including from
the chemical and energy industries.  Majority Stake  The Warsaw bourse in July agreed to acquire a new trading
platform from NYSE Euronext’s Technologies, as central Europe’s
biggest equity market seeks to upgrade its facilities after
daily turnover more than doubled over the past decade. Trading
in Warsaw surged to an average 1.73 billion zloty per day this
year from 677 million zloty in 2000, when the present Warset
system was installed, according to the bourse’s website.  Poland last year invited the London Stock Exchange Group
Plc, NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and Deutsche Boerse AG
to buy a majority stake in the Warsaw bourse. None of them
placed a binding offer.  The exchange isn’t seeking an acquisition or a strategic
partnership after the listing, Sobolewski said today.  “This is not the purpose, though I cannot exclude it
obviously if something interesting appears,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  