-- Power Pitchers Dominate in Baseball Playoff Series as Steroids Era Recedes
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/power-pitchers-dominate-major-league-playoffs-as-steroids-era-fades-away.html
The New York Yankees haven’t won a
game started by an opposing left-handed pitcher in a month, not
a good way for the defending World Series champions to prepare
for the postseason.  In Major League Baseball’s year of the pitcher, the Yankees
aren’t alone among teams who may have trouble finding offensive
punch as the playoffs get under way today. The Yankees are the
second-favorites to win the World Series behind the pitching-
rich Philadelphia Phillies, according to Las Vegas oddsmakers.  Both the American and National leagues suffered power
outages this season. NL pitchers’ earned run average of 3.98 and
AL’s 4.10 ERA each were the lowest since 1992, according to
 Baseball-Reference.com . There was an average of 1.90 home runs
hit per game, the lowest since 1993 (1.78). And pitchers threw
five no-hitters, including two perfect games for the first time
in one season since 1880.  The numbers are a result of efforts to counter steroid use
in baseball by developing more power pitchers with strikeout
capability, according to  Ron Darling , a baseball analyst for the
New York Mets who is working for Turner Sports’ TBS to call
postseason games. The steroids are now gone or heavily curbed by
testing and the power arms remain, he said.  “We’re seeing that generation of pitcher now,” Darling,
50, said in an interview two days ago with Bloomberg Radio.
“Whether it’s H20 with the Phillies -- Halladay, Hamels, Oswalt
-- or  Cliff Lee  or  CC Sabathia , we’ve just seen some of the best
pitching we’ve seen in baseball in a long, long time.”  Fans at major-league ballparks this season saw a record
average of 14.12 strikeouts per contest, topping the previous
high set last year of 13.82.  Pitchers Rule  “This year has more importance for more teams in pitching
than years past of any playoff teams I can remember,” former
Atlanta Braves pitcher  John Smoltz , a TBS analyst, said on a
conference call with reporters. “There’s only a couple of
balanced teams that can win with offense and not necessarily
have to win with their pitching.”  The Phillies had baseball’s best record at 97-65 this
season. They were led by 2003 Cy Young Award winner  Roy Halladay , 2008 World Series Most Valuable Player  Cole Hamels  and
three-time All-Star  Roy Oswalt , and are a 9-5 favorite to win
their second championship in three years, according to the Las
Vegas Hilton Race and Sports Book.  The defending-champion Yankees have 3-1 odds, followed by
the Tampa Bay Rays at 7-2, and the Minnesota Twins and San
Francisco Giants at 8-1. The Texas Rangers are listed at 10-1,
the Atlanta Braves are 15-1 and the Cincinnati Reds are 18-1.  Cy Youngs  Halladay went 21-10 this season and is among the favorites
to capture another Cy Young Award as his league’s best pitcher.
He’ll be on the mound today when the Phillies host the NL
Central-winning Reds (91-71) in Game 1 of their best-of-five
division series.  Edinson Volquez , who went 4-3 with a 4.31 ERA during the
regular season, will start for the Reds. They’re the only
playoff team that doesn’t fully rely on their starting pitchers,
Smoltz said.  “They seem to be more of the team that’s going to have to
outscore the other team, use their whole array of pitching,” he
said. “They don’t have front-line starters that seem to jump
out at you, where the other teams seem to have that.”  Lee, who joined the Rangers from Seattle in July, and the
Rays’  David Price  will meet this afternoon in a battle of AL
division winners. Lee, who led Philadelphia to a World Series
appearance last season, went 12-9 with a 3.18 ERA as the Rangers
claimed the AL West with a 90-72 record. Price went 19-6 with a
2.72 ERA as the Rays finished 96-66, beating the Yankees by one
game in the AL East.  Yankees’ Quest  The Yankees (95-67), who went 0-9 against left-handed
starters in September, will send Sabathia (21-7, 3.18 ERA) to
the mound tonight in a division series opener at the Twins.  “Some teams just get into a little bit of a funk against
left-handed pitchers,” said Darling. With  Alex Rodriguez  and
 Derek Jeter  hitting from the right side and  Mark Teixeira  and
 Jorge Posada  switch-hitting, he said, “you would think that
left-handers would be so vulnerable.”  The Twins will try to extend that slump when they send
lefty  Francisco Liriano  to the mound. Liriano was 14-10 with a
3.62 ERA as the Twins won the AL Central at 94-68.  The Braves, who went 91-71 to earn a wild card as the NL’s
best second-place team, open their series tomorrow at San
Francisco. The Giants (92-70) won the NL West.  Both teams feature strong pitching and average hitting. The
Giants, who will start two-time Cy Young winner  Tim Lincecum  in
Game 1, had a 3.36 team ERA this season, the best in baseball.
Atlanta was third with a 3.56 ERA, while the Braves were 13th in
runs scored and the Giants 17th.  “It might be like soccer scoring,” Smoltz, 43, said of
the Atlanta-San Francisco matchup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 