-- Romantic ‘Puss in Boots’ Lets Puppet Bunnies Live: John Simon
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/puppet-puss-in-boots-charms-ailurophobes-lets-bunnies-live-john-simon.html
That desperate fairytale feline who
uses trickery and persuasion to get rich and marry off his poor
master to a princess, is the hero of “El gato con botas,” now
at New York’s   New Victory Theater .  Composed by Xavier Montsalvatge, an undeservedly little-
known Catalan, it’s been given an exquisite production involving
the combined efforts of  Gotham Chamber Opera ,  Tectonic Theater
Project  and Britain’s  Blind Summit Theatre .  Blind Summit’s work features puppeteers in black
manipulating sizable puppets. The fabulous protagonist, handled
by three puppeteers, is at least lynx-size and performs with
supreme agility. This includes sundry superhuman movements and
the use of mouth and tongue in perfect synchronism with the
soprano who must often scramble to stand beside him. Other
puppets require fewer handlers.  Some, like the adorable rabbits (that, diverging from the
original tale by Charles Perreault, do not get eaten), can do
with just one each. Frequently a human head surmounts a puppet
body and limbs, to excellent comic effect.  Nestor Lujan’s libretto elaborates charmingly on the
original. Thus the Cat in the story requested only boots against
the underbrush and a sack for rabbits, whereas the opera gives
him an elaborate cavalier costume and a sword made of bone to
hypnotize the bunnies and much else for our constant delight.  Romantic Tale  The only exclusively human characters are the miller and
the princess, which makes the event, what with attractive
singing actors, also a bona fide romance. The entire cast is
young and appealing as well as vocally proficient enough to pass
muster with the most fastidious opera fans.  Deserving of every possible accolade are director  Moises Kaufman  and conductor Neal Goren, plus all their inventive
colleagues: puppetry director Mark Down, puppet designer Nick
Barnes (notably for the gloriously swashbuckling Cat), set
designer Andromache Chalfant, costume designer Clint Ramos, and
lighting designer David Lander.  The first and final salute, though, goes to Montsalvatge’s
superbly various music, which should engender performances of
the composer’s many other remarkable works. And that
irresistible Cat of the wondrous ways should induce the most
hardened ailurophobes to save the next kitten from being
drowned.  Through Oct. 10 at the New Victory Theater, 229 W. 42nd St.
10. Information: +1-646-223-3010;  http://newvictory.org 
Rating: ****  ( John Simon  is the New York drama critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 