-- Qatar National Bank Quarterly Profit Jumps to $398 Million, Meets Estimate
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-10-06T12:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/qatar-national-bank-reports-nine-month-net-income-of-4-2-billion-riyals.html
Qatar National Bank SAQ , the Persian
Gulf country’s biggest lender by assets, reported an increase in
third-quarter profit as income from lending jumped.  Net income  climbed to 1.45 billion riyals ($398 million)
from 1.01 billion riyals in the year-earlier period, according
to Bloomberg calculations based on nine-month results provided
by the Doha-based bank today. The  median estimate  of seven
analysts was for a profit of 1.47 billion riyals, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Nine-month profit was 4.2 billion
riyals, the bank said in an e-mailed statement.  The earnings are “in line with our expectations,”  Sofia  El
Boury, a banking analyst at Shuaa Capital PSC, said in a
telephone interview from Dubai today. “Deposit growth was
stronger than expected, which is a very good sign. It means that
the liquidity is doing great in Qatar.”  Qatari banks, which suffered from losses related to the
global economic slowdown, have benefited from a pickup in
economic activity in the Persian Gulf sheikhdom. Customer
deposits rose 23 percent in August compared with the same period
a year earlier, while the value of loans increased 19 percent,
according to data from the country’s  central bank .  The International Monetary Fund forecasts Qatar’s gross
domestic product to grow 19 percent this year, the fastest pace
in the world and double the 2009 level. The expansion comes as
Qatar, holder of the world’s third-largest gas reserves, raises
its annual capacity to liquefy natural gas to 77 million tons.  Loan Ratio  Qatar National Bank’s non-performing loans to total loans
ratio at 0.8 percent is “one of the lowest in the region,”
reflecting the bank’s risk management framework, Chief Executive
Officer  Shareef Al Emadi  said in the statement.  Qatar National Bank, majority owned by the government’s
 wealth fund , plans to expand in Syria, Oman and Sudan as part of
its plan to build a presence in 42 countries, Al Emadi said in
July. The bank last month signed a letter of intent to become
the “standby buyer” for a rights offering by PT Bank Kesawan,
which may give it a controlling stake in the Indonesian lender.  The bank helped manage $3.5 billion bond sales by the real-
estate arm of the country’s sovereign wealth fund in the last
quarter. It was also hired by  Qatar Telecom QSC  to organize
meetings with investors this month before a dollar bond sale.  Qatar National Bank  shares rose 0.9 percent to 153.5 riyals
on the Qatar Exchange today before the results were announced.
The stock has gained 34 percent this year, compared with a 23
percent increase in the  QE Banking Sector Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  