-- Trading Pennies Into $7 Billion Drives High-Frequency’s Cowboys
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/trading-pennies-into-7-billion-profit-drives-high-frequency-s-new-cowboys.html
A cowboy-hat-wearing robot with
“Sell” emblazoned across its chest adorns a wall-length mural
in the lounge of RGM Advisors LLC in Austin,  Texas . Another
robot, with “Buy” on it, wobbles toward a green  Wall Street 
sign as two machines tote spark-emitting high-speed cables.  “We explained to a local artist that we wanted a mural
that represented our business, and he came up with the design,”
RGM Chief Executive Officer Richard Gorelick says in an airy
16th-floor office that calls to mind a Scandinavian design firm
rather than a company that trades hundreds of millions of shares
a day, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its November issue.  As a cue to RGM’s staff of 120 mainly scientists, software
developers and information technology graduates that their job
is to eke out a fraction of a cent profit on each of those
trades, five stone urns in the lobby are stuffed with pennies.  “It’s a lot easier for us to teach really smart scientists
about markets and trading than to teach traders about
programming,” Gorelick, 39, says.  High-frequency firms such as Gorelick’s are the rebellious
new force in U.S. securities markets. Armed with algorithms and
computers that shave milliseconds off the speed of a trade,
programmers, math whizzes and even some former dot­commers like
Gorelick have set up shop from Austin to  Chicago  to Red Bank,  New Jersey . These firms don’t analyze a company’s value or bet
on financial news. They use computers to scour public and
private markets for deviations from historical prices and leap
on discrepancies, rather than betting on the value of a company,
currency or commodity.  All About Speed  “Speed is now the defining characteristic of the market,”
says  Adam Sussman , the New York-based director of research at
 Tabb Group LLC , who has researched the role of high-frequency
firms in financial markets.  Fast-paced trading played a role in the 10-minute U.S.
stock market crash on May 6. The automatic execution of a sale
of futures contracts valued at about $4.1 billion helped trigger
the plunge, according to an Oct. 1 report by the U.S.  Securities
and Exchange Commission  and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. The initial sales of the contracts led to a burst of
trading among high-frequency firms, the report said.  Some high-frequency companies set themselves up as market
makers, offering prices to buy and sell shares. Others exist
specifically to profit from mismatches among stocks.  ‘Quick Killing’  Nanex LLC  says some activities are underhanded. Researchers
at the Winnetka, Illinois, data firm have found instances in
which thousands of quotes a second in a particular stock are
fired and canceled immediately, overwhelming trading systems.
This process has added the term “quote stuffing” to the
lexicon.  “High-frequency traders are not interested in the
fundamental worth of a company,” says George Feiger, CEO of
 Contango Capital Advisors Inc. , a San Francisco money management
firm with $2 billion in assets. “They are only interested in
making a quick killing and moving on.”  Regulators are fumbling with how to rein in the HFT crowd
and its computers that generate more than half of all U.S. stock
trades each day. The SEC is looking into establishing and then
enforcing a minimum time period, such as 50 milliseconds, that a
quote to buy or sell a stock would have to remain valid,
according to firms who have met with the SEC. Such a move could
limit the number of cancellations. The SEC also is considering
whether to require high-frequency firms to remain in a market,
rather than pulling out when times get tough, to maintain a
supply of stock.  ‘Wild Wild West’  Democratic Senator Ted Kaufman of  Delaware  wants the SEC to
limit the number of quote cancellations. The SEC has proposed
rules to monitor firms that trade more than 2 million shares a
day.  Such changes assume that enforcers are as agile as high-
frequency firms.  “Technological advances have outstripped our ability to
regulate them,” says Andrew Lo, director of  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology’s  Laboratory for Financial Engineering
and chief scientific officer of quantitative-analysis hedge fund
AlphaSimplex Group LLC. “It’s like the Wild Wild West.”  The burgeoning HFT industry has spawned legions of jeans-
wearing techies who arm their machines to outwit rivals.
Programmers write formulas to sniff out the buy and sell
intentions of mutual funds and jump in ahead of them in a
practice called gaming. Institutional investors use strategies
such as iceberging: breaking a single large order into chunks,
and leaving just a small order, or the tip, visible. The gamers,
also called sharks, unleash small buy and sell orders to uncover
the hidden ones.  May 6  The event that triggered the intense interest of regulators
was the crash on May 6. The Dow Jones Industrial Average --
already down about 350 points on concern that  Greece  would
default on its 210 billion euro ($290 billion) debt -- nose-
dived 600 points in less than 10 minutes. Just as quickly, it
rebounded to finish the day 347 points lower. The plunge
temporarily erased $862 billion from U.S. equities in the Dow’s
biggest-ever intraday drop.  In a May 18 report, the SEC and  CFTC  said they’re focusing
on six areas -- including whether declines in index futures and
exchange traded funds may have created waves of share sales.  In the Oct. 1 report, the regulators said an unidentified
firm set off the plunge by selling 75,000 contracts on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index known as E-mini futures. Two people
with knowledge of the findings identified the firm as Waddell &
Reed Financial Inc., an Overland Park, Kansas-based mutual-fund
company. The automated sales of the contracts created a flurry
of trading among HFT firms, according to the report.  ‘Hot Potato’  “HFTs began to quickly buy and then resell contracts to
each other, generating a ‘hot-potato’ volume effect as the same
positions were rapidly passed back and forth,” according to the
report. Between 2:45:13 and 2:45:27, “HFTs traded more than
27,000 contracts, which accounted for about 49 percent of the
total trading volume, while buying only about 200 additional
contracts,” the report says.  The report is unlikely to end the debate over the role of
high-frequency firms. “If there is a time advantage, there is a
monetary advantage,” says Nanex founder Eric Scott Hunsader.  In a run-up to the crash, some high-frequency traders
submitted and then canceled tens of thousands of buy and sell
orders a second, overloading trading systems, Hunsader says. The
SEC hasn’t accused any firm of quote stuffing and no firm has
owned up to unleashing their computers on the day of the crash.  Quote Stuffing  Quote stuffing hasn’t gone away. On an average day, 15 to
20 stocks get more than 5,000 quotes a second that never turn
into a trade, Hunsader says.  “If the number of quote-stuffing incidences continues, one
or more systems will get saturated,” he says.  After May 6, the SEC and CFTC sought advice from traders,
investors, academics, exchange officials and HFT executives on
what to do.  “This is truly the brave new world we are trying to
regulate,” CFTC Commissioner Scott O’Malia says.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in a September speech to
the  Economic Club of New York  that the agency may impose rules
on high-frequency traders.  During the past decade, the SEC moved to lower trading
costs and create competition between exchanges. Some SEC
changes, such as electronic communications networks, automated
computer trading systems that match buyers and sellers, have
virtually eliminated traditional market makers -- the people who
used to stand on the floors of exchanges and offer buy and sell
prices for a stock. That has left market-making activity
dominated by HFT firms with few rules to govern them.  Boost the Economy  “The function of the capital markets is to facilitate
capital formation and boost the overall economy, not to assure
the profitability of any group of market professionals,” says
Daniel Gray, assistant director of the SEC’s division of trading
and markets.  Proponents of high-frequency trading -- and the companies
themselves -- say they lubricate the gears of capitalism, making
markets more efficient and slashing trading costs.  “The equity market has created an intense and healthy
competition in providing liquidity,” says Liam Connell, CEO of
 Allston Trading LLC,  a Chicago high-frequency firm that deals in
options, futures contracts and foreign exchange. “We’re ripping
each other’s throats for fractions of a penny.”  $7.2 Billion Profit  They deny quote stuffing. In fact, most HFT firms say they
slowed trading -- or shut down altogether -- as May 6 unfolded
because they were unsure of whether the quotes they were seeing
were accurate. Now some are balking at any requirement that
would force them to remain in the market during such times.  For all of their impact, there aren’t all that many high-
frequency traders. HFT firms, some with just a handful of
employees, make up about 2 percent of the 20,000 hedge funds,
brokers and mutual funds active in U.S. equities, according to
Tabb Group.  Last year, they accounted for 60 percent of the daily U.S.
stock market volume of 9.8 billion shares and about 40 percent
of futures and foreign-exchange trading, according to Tabb.
Their trading profit: about $7.2 billion in 2009, Tabb says. By
contrast, just one investment bank,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .,
made $13.3 billion in net profit last year. Goldman traders
generated more than $100 million on 17 separate days during this
year’s second quarter.  Warp-Speed Trading  This warp-speed universe is eons away from the days when
traders in colorful jackets convened at the premier trading
marketplace, the  New York  Stock Exchange. Today, the Big Board
is one of 11 U.S. exchanges that display quotes publicly. Two
more are coming this month. More than 30 dark pools, which allow
buyers and sellers to operate without showing their actions to
others, and 200-plus venues operated by banks and brokerages
match buyers and sellers privately.  Five years ago, almost 80 percent of the shares of NYSE
companies were traded on that exchange. Today, the NYSE controls
26 percent of the shares traded on its trading platforms.
(Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, owns Bloomberg
Tradebook, an ECN that operates a dark pool.)  On a broiling August afternoon in Austin, about 30 T-shirt-
and jeans-wearing RGM engineers 1,700 miles (2,700 kilometers)
away from Wall Street watch a map of network traffic flowing
across major markets on a 52-inch (132-centimeter) screen. Long
equations scribbled in red and blue markers decorate glass
office dividers. Outside, shops sell “Keep Austin Weird”
souvenirs.  Algorithmic Models  RGM’s researchers build models for all of the stocks,
futures and options the company trades to continuously determine
a fair price. To value oil giant  Chevron Corp ., a high-frequency
program might monitor not only Chevron’s stock price but compare
it with crude oil, a basket of oil company shares and  interest
rates . Computers would monitor bid and ask spreads, the gap
between the price that a buyer wants to receive and what a
seller will pay, across all trading venues to gauge demand.  “High-frequency firms work to tighten the spreads,”
Gorelick says. “If the price has moved away from fair value,
traders try to push it back.” That means buying or selling,
depending on the direction of the move.  Another strategy, called pairs trading, is based on the
idea that prices of related stocks should be correlated. Soda
rivals  Coca-Cola Co . and PepsiCo Inc. tend to fluctuate around
the same news. When that relationship breaks down so that the
price of one stock increases while the other falls, it means
opportunities to profit.  Dot-Com Heritage  “Think of prices of different correlated instruments as
being held by rubber bands,” Gorelick says. “Once these rubber
bands get stretched, that’s how we make our money.”  High-frequency traders didn’t have their HFT acronym when
Gorelick started  RGM  in 2001 with Robbie Robinette and Mark
Melton, the R and M of the firm.  Gorelick, who has a law degree from  Georgetown University 
in Washington, had been general counsel and later chief strategy
officer for message board search and shopping-comparison website
Deja.com Inc. After the technology bubble burst in 2000,
Deja.com shelved its IPO plans and sold its shopping service to  EBay Inc . and its newsgroup search archives to  Google Inc .  “Not one of us was a trader,” Gorelick says. He met
Robinette, a software developer, at Deja.com; Melton, who
specialized in data mining and pattern recognition, was
Robinette’s cycling buddy.  The three started a company to apply mathematical models to
detect trading patterns. “We liked a business where solving
difficult technical problems led very directly to business
success,” Gorelick says.  ‘Three Guys From Texas’  The trio thought they could beat technical traders, who
rely on charts to identify historical price patterns. They pored
over trading books and wrote their first program. Gorelick
headed to Wall Street to meet brokers. People didn’t understand
what they were doing, he recalls.  “We were three guys from Texas, with no trading experience
and little money,” Gorelick says over a Cobb salad lunch. “It
probably looked pretty flaky.”  Finally, a New York day-trading firm let them open an
account. The partners loaded their program, which looked at
statistical relationships among stocks, on a Compaq computer.  “Our first day, we did four trades and made $17,”
Gorelick says. “Our second day, we lost a few hundred dollars
and had to make adjustments.” By the spring of 2002, their
strategy was working well enough to allow them to rent offices
and recruit programmers and researchers.  Rise of Computers  RGM was preceded by a line of firms conceived by computer-
savvy mavericks. Portfolio insurance traders were the early whiz
kids of the 1980s until they got blamed for the 1987 stock
market crash, says Bernard Donefer, who ran Fidelity
Investments’ electronic trading desk from 1996 to 2002 and is
now a professor at  Baruch College  in New York.  In the 1990s, day traders using the Small Order Execution
System, a computer network that automatically executed trades of
up to 1,000 shares, were called the SOES bandits because they
swooped in before market makers could update prices.  “It was not economical to use a human market maker when
computers can do it much cheaper,” Donefer says.  SEC Innovations  The SEC paved the way for today’s high-frequency traders in
1998. Then-Chairman Arthur Levitt authorized Regulation ATS,
which spawned ECNs to match buyers and sellers. (Levitt is on
the board of Bloomberg LP.)  The SEC ordered the introduction of decimalization in 2000,
lowering the minimum spread between what a seller will accept
and what a buyer wants to pay to a penny from an eighth of a
dollar, or 12.5 cents. The SEC’s aim was to reduce the cost of
trading for retail investors.  In the 1990s, if you had wanted to buy a share of  International Business Machines Corp ., the price would have been
$129, $129.125, $129.25 and so on. Today, the gap between the
buyer and seller of a popular stock is often around a penny.  In another attempt to make markets more democratic, the
SEC’s Regulation NMS in 2007 stipulated that orders be posted
electronically and immediately executed at the best price
available nationally. The combination of lower spreads and
greater competition sent traditional market makers fleeing.
Market making on the NYSE moved to computer screens from
exchange floors.  Fleeting Opportunities  “Opportunities that in the past would last three days now
last only five minutes or less,” says Irene Aldridge, author of
“High-Frequency Trading: A Practical Guide to Algorithmic
Strategies and Trading Systems” (Wiley, 2009). “There is too
much information for a human trader to process.”  Automation introduced normally staid institutional
investors to the high-frequency world. For mutual funds that
deal in blocks of stock, there’s always danger in having rivals
detect a trade. Once a high-speed firm discovers a fund’s large
buy order, HFT computers may instantly move to snap up the
available stock on other exchanges, expecting to sell it to the
institution at a higher price.  The massive volumes generated by HFT firms scouring various
markets can also send false trading signals.  “I am not sure if the quote at any time accurately
reflects the balance of supply and demand,” says Kevin Cronin,
director of global equity trading at Atlanta-based mutual fund
firm  Invesco Ltd ., which has $560 billion under management.  “I see a quote, and many times it disappears in an instant
without anything trading,” adds Cronin, who spoke at the SEC
hearing and wants the commission to restrict HFT activities.  HFT Backers  High-frequency trading has won supporters, even in the $12
trillion mutual fund industry. George Sauter, chief investment
officer at Vanguard Group Inc., the biggest U.S. mutual fund
manager, with $1.4 trillion in assets, says HFT has lowered
costs. Decimalization, the absence of middle­men and competition
sparked by high-frequency traders have shrunk spreads.  “My transaction costs have fallen by 50 percent over the
past 10 years,” says Sauter, who also spoke at the SEC hearing
and disagrees with curbs on HFT. “You cannot throw out high-
speed trading with the bath water.”  Institutions have to adapt to reality, says Jose Marques,
who joined  Deutsche Bank AG  as global head of electronic equity
trading this year from  Credit Suisse Group AG .  “We have gone from machines looking for patterns to
machines looking for other machines looking for patterns,” says
Marques, who fends off high-frequency players for the bank’s
electronic trading clients.  Hide-and-Seek  “We take the very techniques the high-frequency crowd use
to detect activity and use that knowledge to defend our
clients,” he says. “If we make a trade and see prices start to
move, we’ll stop trading. High-frequency players will lose
interest and move on. At that stage, we resume our trading.”
The aim is to keep trading without attracting attention.  It’s still a struggle to trade without being detected, says
Henri Waelbroeck, research director at New York-based electronic
brokerage Pipeline Financial Systems LLC.  “Over time, all algorithms will leave a signature, a
footprint that could be read by others,” he says.  Manoj Narang became interested in faster trading when he
suspected somebody was deciphering his trades. Narang, 40, an
MIT graduate who’d worked for Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse,
was running a $200 million hedge fund above a Restoration
Hardware store in Red Bank. He speculated that companies with
similar strategies were firing off trades faster than he was.  ‘Taking Opportunities’  “Firms were jumping ahead of us in trades, taking
opportunities,” says Narang, dressed in a blue T-shirt, jeans
and a Yankees cap as about 25 people, mostly men in their 20s,
work at computers in near silence. Narang measured his holding
time in three or four days, not seconds or even minutes, and was
missing out on profits.  Narang, who had founded  Tradeworx Inc.  to sell trading
software in 1999 and had started his hedge fund in 2001, hired
engineering and math graduates. He began a $5 million high-
frequency operation in January 2009. Today, he trades as many as
60 million shares a day, with an average holding time of 2
minutes, compared with 10 minutes in the summer.  Narang walks to a whiteboard to explain one of his
strategies. All he needs is the price relationship between two
stocks. Once his computers detect that the price of one stock is
moving more than others, the machines go into action. If the
price of  Microsoft Corp . is rising, Tradeworx sells Microsoft
shares and buys the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust.  “You don’t need to look at anything other than the price
of Microsoft to determine if it is rich or cheap,” he says.  Low Risk, Low Reward  There are plenty of chances to scalp a penny or two. A
fluctuation in Microsoft shares will change the price of
Microsoft options, as well as indexes that track Microsoft and
the Standard & Poor’s 500 futures contract. Narang’s machines
sell the SPDR ETF fund and buy Microsoft, closing the trade for
a profit.  “This is not a swing-for-the-fences strategy but a low-
risk, low-reward operation,” he says.  The trick is to generate enough volume to make it a
sustainable business. Allston’s Connell left behind 14 years on
Wall Street to join the Chicago firm in 2004, a year after it
was formed. A native of Dublin who, with his rumpled white shirt
and steel-gray hair, resembles actor Dennis Quaid, Connell won a
1988 U.S. Green Card lottery, a government program that offered
permanent residency. He headed to Salomon Brothers Inc. in New
York to set up fixed-income-trading systems.  Price Discrepancies  Connell says he quit Salomon in 1998 because he felt
destined for a life in middle management. He joined Chicago-
based Hull Trading Co., which was a pioneer in electronic
trading in options and futures. Goldman Sachs bought Hull for
$531 million in 1999, making him managing director for equities
derivatives trading systems. He spent four years there, took a
year off and then joined Allston.  Seated in an office in the Chicago Board Options Exchange
building with the blinds drawn against the glaring August
sunlight, Connell says his team constantly looks for ways of
identifying price discrepancies.  One approach would be to look at a stock’s historical
trading pattern and buy or sell whenever the stock moves out of
its range. Another is comparing a stock’s movement to a basket
of related stocks. By contrast, a traditional asset management
firm may look at year-ahead earnings, price-earnings ratio and
cash-flow expectations to determine fair value.  Without knowing anything about Goldman Sachs’s profit or
cash flow, a firm could still make money trading the shares. To
illustrate how this might be done, Connell shows a spreadsheet
with two days of Goldman Sachs price movements.  Buy and Sell Spikes  He points out where sudden spikes go back to an average
price. These spikes are most likely short-term discrepancies in
buy and sell orders, he says. By selling when the stock rose
sharply and buying when the price fell sharply, a firm could
theoretically make a profit. A company could apply this rule to
spreads between similar stocks or baskets of stocks, says
Connell, who declines to discuss Allston’s strategies.  At RGM, Gorelick has the same reticence. When asked about
profits, he’s tight-lipped.  “That’s one of the benefits of being a private company,”
he says.  From RGM’s first operating day when it did four trades and
made $17, it now trades hundreds of millions of shares a day. If
it makes 0.1 cent to 0.2 cent a share, or 1 to 2 mil in industry
parlance, that could mean $75 million to $150 million a year in
revenue from its trades. With options, futures and foreign
exchange, trading profit could top $200 million.  “We’re not Goldman Sachs, but this is a good business,”
he says.  Genie Out of Lamp  Supporters and opponents agree on one thing: High-frequency
trading is here to stay.  “You can’t put the genie back in the lamp,” says Tim Sargent, CEO of Quantitative Services Group LLC, a Naperville,
Illinois, company that analyzes trading costs.  The trick for regulators will be to weave some magic of
their own to keep financial markets humming without letting fast
computers bent on quick profits get the upper hand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net  