-- 
Hynix Seeks Delay of Rambus Patent-Infringement Trial

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-03-02T22:12:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/rambus-defends-document-policy-in-hynix-micron-appeal-redux.html
  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) ,  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  and Nanya Technology Corp. asked a federal judge
in  California  to delay a patent-infringement trial scheduled for
May 2 over claims brought by Rambus Inc.  Jared Bobrow, a lawyer representing the memory-chip makers,
said in a letter today to U.S. District Judge Ronald M. Whyte in
San Jose, California, that the trial should be taken “off
calendar” or postponed as the companies await decisions in
related cases before the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit in Washington.  “With only two months until the trial date, there is still
no decision from the Federal Circuit and no clarity as to
whether a trial will be necessary or what its scope will be,”
Bobrow wrote. “Even if a decision issued today, there would not
be sufficient time to prepare for a trial starting in two
months.”  Rambus, the Sunnyvale, California-based designer of high-
speed computer-memory chips, has sued companies that refused to
license its patents, including Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix,
the world’s second-largest memory-chip maker; Boise, Idaho-based
Micron; and Taoyuan, Taiwan-based Nanya.  Rambus’s patent claims cover DRAM chips, or dynamic random
access memory. The cases at issue in Bobrow’s letter concern
DDR2, or double rate 2 memory chips. Whyte set the May 2 trial
date anticipating the appeals court in  Washington  would already
have issued rulings, according to Bobrow’s letter.  Two Cases  The appeals court is weighing two cases in which the same
question is a factor: when Rambus had to begin preserving
documents that it might be required to give its opponents in
litigation and the legal standard for determining that date.  A judge in a Micron case in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware , ruled 12 Rambus patents unenforceable as punishment
for document destruction. In the second case, Hynix is appealing
a ruling in which Whyte rejected similar arguments and allowed a
trial to proceed, leading to a $397 million judgment in Rambus’s
favor.    Michael Cohen , chief executive officer of Fremont,
California-based MDC Financial Research, a firm that follows
legal disputes for investors, said Rambus shareholders will view
any delay of more than six months in the DDR2 trial negatively.  “With a 10-year history of delays in Rambus’s disputes,
investors now only seem to focus on cases that seem immediate
and probable,” he said. Cohen said he owns 400 Rambus shares.  Linda Ashmore, a Rambus spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a phone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  The case is  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  v. Hynix Semiconductor Inc.,
5:05-cv-00334, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  