-- Rand May Weaken 5% in Month on Government Intervention, Barclays Predicts
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-06T12:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/rand-to-lose-5-percent-to-7-25-per-dollar-over-next-month-barclays-says.html
The rand may weaken in the next month
on speculation the Finance Ministry’s October mini-budget will
include measures to depreciate the world’s third-best performing
currency since 2008, according to Barclays Plc.  “We expect idiosyncratic factors to generate some modest
weakness in one month and in 12 months, but our forecasts are
generally at the strong end of consensus,” Barclays Capital
analysts including London-based  Koon Chow  and  Bulent Badsha  in
Johannesburg wrote in a research note dated today.  Barclays predicts the currency will slide 5 percent to 7.25
per dollar in the next month due to “potential government
measures” including a relaxation of foreign-exchange controls
likely to be announced during the Finance Ministry’s Medium-Term
Budget Policy statement scheduled for Oct. 27, Barclays said.  Governments from South Korea to Brazil are stepping up
attempts to control their currencies as investors pour a record
amount of money into emerging markets. Brazil this week doubled
a tax it charges on foreign investments in fixed-income
securities while South Korean regulators will begin an audit of
banks handling foreign-currency derivatives to curb swings in
the won, which gained 8 percent in the past three months.  The Reserve Bank may also buy dollars directly from foreign
investors bidding for South African companies, Barclays said.  Direct Investment  Foreign direct investment from anticipated deals may reach
$8 billion, Johannesburg-based  Rand Merchant  Bank said in an
Oct. 1 note. HSBC Holdings Plc has proposed a buyout of Nedbank
Group Ltd., Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. wants to purchase
Dimension Data Plc and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. has made an offer
for Massmart Holdings Ltd.  The rand, which traded at 6.8834 per dollar as of 1:50 p.m.
in Johannesburg, may rebound to about 6.90 in three months,
Barclays said.  Within six months it may reach 6.85 per dollar,
boosted by South’s Africa’s interest-rate allure compared with
other major countries, “global risk drivers” and foreign fund
inflows, which “ensure that the reduced current account deficit
remains more than adequately funded,” Barclays said.  A reversal in the impetus from government stimulus measures
that increase the supply of money in the global economy will
weaken the rand to 7.30 per dollar in 12 months, the note said.  The currency has rallied 37 percent versus the dollar since
the end of 2008, surpassed only by the Brazilian real’s 39
percent gain and the Australian dollar’s 38 percent
appreciation.  ‘Hugely Costly’  Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  warned last month
of a global “currency war” as developing nations grapple with
currency strength, which can curb exports as the global economic
recovery struggles to take hold. South African central bank
Governor  Gill Marcus  said Sept. 22 she’s in discussions with
“many countries to see what the solution is.”  Marcus said last month that measures to stem gains in the
rand are “hugely costly.” The Pretoria-based Reserve Bank
incurred a loss of 1.05 billion rand ($149 million) in the year
through March trying to build foreign reserves as a means of
stemming gains in the rand.  Losses are incurred as the central bank issues domestic
bonds to mop up excess liquidity caused by selling rand for
dollars, a process known as sterilization.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  has rejected calls by labor
unions to impose a tax on foreign bond and share purchases to
stem gains in the rand, according to a Sept. 16 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  