-- Trapped Chile Miners May Be Free by Weekend, Official Says
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2010-10-06T21:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/trapped-chile-miners-may-be-free-by-weekend-after-two-month-rescue-effort.html
The first of Chile’s 33 trapped
miners may be free by Oct. 10, more than two months after a mine
accident stranded the workers almost half a mile underground, an
official aiding the rescue efforts said.  The second of three rescue shafts being drilled has reached
a depth of 520 meters (1,700 feet) after a drill bit was changed
last night, said Eugenio Eguiguren, international vice president
of Geotec Boyles Bros., which is digging the hole. The drill has
another 102 meters to go before reaching the men, who have been
trapped since an Aug. 5 cave-in at the mine in northern Chile.  Once the drilling rig breaks through 622 meters, which
could happen as soon as Oct. 8, rescuers will send down a video
camera to determine if the shaft is stable enough to pull out
the workers without first casing the walls, Eguiguren said.
Installing a casing would take three or four days, he said.  “The deeper it gets, the more complicated things become,”
Eguiguren said today in a telephone interview from the company’s
Santiago office. “Everything is going well. I think they’ll be
getting out this Sunday or Monday.”  The miners were trapped after an access tunnel caved in at
Cia. Minera San Esteban Primera SA’s San Jose copper and gold
mine in northern Chile’s Atacama region. Companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd.  have joined the rescue effort and authorities have
sought advice on the rescue from countries including Peru,
Canada, the U.S. and Australia.  Man-Sized Hole  The miners’ only contact with the outside world has been
through small drill holes from which they receive food, water,
medicine and games such as dominoes.  The technique of lifting workers from a man-sized hole
first proved successful in 1963 after David Fellin and Henry
Throne were pulled out of the Sheppton coal mine in Pennsylvania
after being trapped for 14 days. A similar rescue effort at a
coal mine in Crandall Canyon, Utah, ended in failure after six
miners and three rescuers were killed.  “We have to get through this complicated zone,” Andre
Sougarret, the chief engineer in charge of rescue operations,
said today at a press conference at the mine site. “We have to
go meter by meter, and that’s what we’re doing,” he said in
televised remarks.  Drilling was stopped earlier today to allow engineers to
analyze the final segment to be drilled, he said. Chilean
President  Sebastian Pinera  said Oct. 4 the miners could be
rescued before he starts a trip to Europe on Oct. 15.  Once officials reach the trapped miners and give the go-
ahead to begin rescue operations, a tube 24 inches wide will be
lowered down into the hole, which measures 26 inches at its
narrowest point, La Tercera newspaper reported today. At 120
meters down, rescuers will have to navigate a sharp angle before
the hole drops straight down to where the miners have taken
shelter, the newspaper reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  