-- Treasuries Gain, Pushing Five-Year Yields to Record Low Before Labor Data
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-06T05:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/treasuries-gain-five-year-yields-drop-to-record-low-before-job-reports.html
Treasuries rose, sending five-year
yields to a  record  low, on speculation government reports this
week will show the U.S. labor market is deteriorating.  Two-year rates were near their lowest ever as economists
said figures tomorrow will show initial claims for jobless
insurance increased and data the following day will reveal the
unemployment rate rose. Yields slid this week as investors bet
the Federal Reserve will follow the Bank of Japan in increasing
purchases of debt.  “The recovery is still very slow,” said  Takashi Yamamoto ,
chief trader in Singapore at Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking
Corp., a unit of Japan’s biggest lender. “There is a flight to
quality.”  Five-year yields declined one basis point to 1.19 percent
as of 6:51 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor Market Data.
The 1.25 percent security due in September 2015 rose 1/32, or 31
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 9/32. The rate slid to
1.1755 percent earlier today, the least on record.  Two-year  notes  yielded 0.41 percent, versus the all-time
low of 0.3987 percent set Oct. 4.  Yamamoto said he’s borrowing at short-term rates to invest
in five- and 10-year notes. The difference between one-week
 yields  and 10-year rates has narrowed to 2.32 percentage points
from this year’s high of 3.89 percentage points in April.  Benchmark 10-year rates will fall to 2 percent by year-end
from today’s 2.46 percent, shrinking the spread further,
Yamamoto said.  Jobless Claims  U.S. initial jobless claims increased by 2,000 to 455,000
in the week ended Oct. 2, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before tomorrow’s report. The unemployment rate climbed to 9.7
percent in September from 9.6 percent in August, based on a
separate survey ahead of the Oct. 8 data.  Yields reflect expectations for the Fed to buy about $1
trillion of assets,  Ajay Rajadhyaksha  and  Dean Maki  at Barclays
Capital Inc. wrote in a report yesterday. Widening swap spreads
indicate the purchases will mostly be Treasuries, according to
Barclays, one of the 18 primary dealers that are required to bid
at the government’s debt sales.  The 10-year swap  rate  climbed to 10 basis points more than
the Treasury yield yesterday, the most since June.  In a swap, investors exchange fixed and floating interest
rates. The spread is the difference between the fixed rate and
the yield on similar-maturity Treasuries.  Fed Purchases  The Fed is scheduled to purchase Treasuries maturing from
March 2013 to August 2014 today, according to its  website , as
part of its effort to keep borrowing costs low.  Investors are demanding record amounts of yield to own 30-
year bonds instead of 10-year notes because of speculation the
central bank will focus on shorter-maturity debt if policy
makers expand purchases of government securities.  “The Fed is likely to buy Treasuries concentrated in the
intermediate part of the curve,” said  Richard Bryant , a New
York-based senior vice president for fixed income at MF Global
Inc., a broker of exchange-traded futures. “In buying back
Treasuries, they are unlikely to extend much of their purchases
past the 10-year.”  The  spread  between the two rates expanded to 1.28
percentage points yesterday, the widest in Bloomberg data
stretching back to 1977.  Japan’s decision yesterday to set up a 5 trillion yen ($60
billion) fund to buy assets and to cut its benchmark interest
rate to spur growth fueled expectations the Fed will follow. The
Bank of Japan lowered its key rate to a range of zero percent to
0.1 percent from the previous 0.1 percent target.  Further Action  New York Fed President  William Dudley , the Boston Fed’s
 Eric Rosengren  and Chicago’s  Charles Evans  have all advocated
further Fed action. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4
that restarting large-scale asset purchases would probably spur
growth, after saying last week the central bank has a duty to
aid the economy as  unemployment  holds near 10 percent.  Expectations for central bank action have already led to
lower interest  rates , higher stock prices and a weaker dollar,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., one of the 18 primary
dealers that are required to bid at government debt sales.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.1 percent yesterday
to the highest level since May. The  Dollar Index , which
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to track the greenback
against the currencies of six major U.S. trading partners,
slumped 0.9 percent yesterday to the lowest since January.  The Fed will probably move to spur growth as soon as its
next meeting on Nov. 2-3, analysts led by  Jan Hatzius , the New
York-based chief U.S. economist at Goldman Sachs, wrote in their
e-mail to clients.  Hatzius said yesterday at a forum in Washington that
another $1 trillion of asset purchases by the Fed would probably
lower long-term interest rates by about 0.25 percentage point,
adding a “few tenths of additional GDP growth.”  The  Fed  bought $1.7 trillion worth of Treasury and mortgage
debt in a program that ended in March. The purchases helped push
 mortgage rates  to historic lows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 