-- Renault Selling Volvo Stock Worth $4.4 Billion After Stock Jumps
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-10-06T22:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/renault-selling-volvo-stock-worth-3-15-billion-euros-terms-sho.html
Renault SA , France’s second-largest
carmaker, is selling a 14.9 percent stake in  Volvo AB  valued at
3.15 billion euros ($4.4 billion), taking advantage of a surge
in the Swedish truckmaker’s shares to pay down debt.  Renault is offering its 302.9 million Class B shares of the
in a private placement, it said in a statement yesterday. The
shares are being sold for 92.5 kroner to 94 kronor each,
according to a term sheet sent to prospective investors. That
would be a discount of as little as 3.1 percent to yesterday
closing price in Stockholm.  “It’s difficult to see it any other way than positively
for Renault,” said  Mike Tyndall , a London-based automotive
specialist at Nomura Securities. “We knew it would come to
market at some point, but the timing is a surprise.”  Increasing orders for commercial vehicles allowed
Gothenburg, Sweden-based Volvo and rivals Daimler AG and Scania
AB to beat earnings estimates or raise their profit outlook this
year. Volvo shares have advanced 57 percent over the past 12
months, while Renault has gained 15 percent.  Renault, with net industrial debt of 4.66 billion euros as
of June 30, said it will retain its holding of 138.6 million
Class A shares, or 6.8 percent of Volvo’s share capital and 17.5
of voting rights, and both of its board seats.  Chief Operating Officer  Patrick Pelata  said as recently as
Sept. 15 that Renault didn’t intend to sell its Volvo stake soon
because the manufacturer has enough funds to reduce debt.
Renault has held the Volvo stake since selling its Renault
Trucks division to the Swedish company in 2001.  Truck Rebound  Volvo, the world’s second-largest maker of heavy trucks,
 fell  0.2 percent to 97.05 kronor on the Stockholm exchange
yesterday, valuing the truckmaker at 203.9 billion kronor ($30.4
billion). Renault, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-
Billancourt,  dropped  0.8 percent to 36.52 euros in Paris.  Industry-wide deliveries of heavy trucks will grow by more
than 50 percent to about 3 million vehicles by 2015, helped by
emerging markets,  Andreas Renschler , head of Daimler’s truck
division, predicted last month.  The placement “allows Renault to swiftly bring automotive
debt back into line with our targets, while keeping our A shares
and retaining our position as a core shareholder of the Volvo
Group, confirming our confidence in the company and its
management team,” Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said in
the statement.  Credit Ratings  Under Ghosn, Renault has pledged to cut its industrial debt
to 3 billion euros or less. Renault had 6.3 billion euros of
cash and equivalents at the end of the June.  Renault’s long-term debt is rated Ba1, the highest non-
investment grade rating, with a stable outlook at Moody’s
Investors Service and BB, one notch lower, with a stable outlook
at Standard & Poor’s.  As of April 30, when Volvo traded at 91.15 kronor, analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted Renault would wait for the
shares to rise to 112.5 kronor before selling, according to the
average of 10 estimates.  Among potential buyers are current Volvo owners
 Industrivarden AB  and  Christer Gardell’s  Violet Partners LP,
analysts said at the time.  Sverker Sivall , a spokesman for Industrivarden, declined to
comment. Gardell couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Maarten Wikforss, a spokesman for Volvo, said he has no
comment and that the truckmaker hadn’t been informed about
Renault’s decision.  Pricing for the stock sale, managed by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., is expected today, with settlement due on Oct. 12,
according to the term sheet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  