-- Renaissance Capital Plans to Expand Into Egypt, Angola, Uganda and Rwanda
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-10-06T10:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/renaissance-capital-plans-to-expand-into-egypt-angola-uganda-and-rwanda.html
Renaissance Capital, the Russian
emerging-markets bank with operations in Africa, plans to expand
next year into Egypt and at least three other African countries.  The firm, which is half-owned by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , may buy or start a brokerage in Egypt that would also
cover Morocco and Tunisia,  Clifford Sacks , the chief executive
officer of the South African unit and head of Pan-African
Equities, said in a phone interview from Johannesburg yesterday.  The Moscow-based bank, which currently operates in five
African nations including Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa and
Zambia, also plans to move into Angola, Uganda and Rwanda, said
 Hasnen Varawalla , global head of corporate finance.  “Each of these countries will see a huge development in
their capital markets,” Varawalla said in an interview in
Moscow yesterday. “We are looking to expand into another five
or six countries in Africa.”  The bank, known as  RenCap , started its African business in
2007. In the past year, it participated in 24 transactions
across 13 African countries, including the $955 million sale of
 Central African Mining & Exploration Co.  to Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp.  In July, it paid 207 million rand ($27 million) to acquire
Barnard Jacobs Mellet Securities Ltd., the South African stock
brokerage.  Africa, which accounts for a quarter of RenCap’s
investment-banking business, and other non-Russian activities
will generate more than 50 percent of revenue within two to
three years, Varawalla said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 