-- Returns Up to 10% on Low-Income Housing Lure Google, Kroger
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2010-10-06T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/returns-up-to-10-on-low-income-housing-lure-google-kroger.html
Google Inc. , Kroger Co. and  Waste
Management Inc.  are investing in low-income rental housing as
companies are lured to a field long dominated by financial firms
with returns that have doubled to almost 10 percent since 2006.  About $7.5 billion of investor equity will flow into U.S.
residential projects for the elderly and working poor this year,
according to Fred Copeman, who tracks the market at accounting
firm  Reznick Group  in Bethesda, Maryland. That’s up from $4.5
billion in 2009 and the first increase in three years, based on
estimates by consultants Ernst & Young LLP.  The investments are attracting nonfinancial companies
seeking to offset taxable income that is climbing as the economy
recovers. The deals, which help make affordable housing more
available, also provide an alternative to record-low yields on
government and corporate bonds.  “The surprise isn’t that Google invested,” said David
Smith, chairman of  Recap Real Estate Advisors , a Boston-based
firm that focuses on multifamily properties. “The surprise
would be if anyone in the Fortune 100 with reliable earnings is
not investing in this environment.”  Investor returns, which vary based on terms of individual
deals, are derived from federal credits and depreciation
deductions that reduce tax bills. Investors make money primarily
by paying less than a dollar for a dollar’s worth of tax
credits. The transactions are usually best suited to companies
with consistent profits and a long-term outlook because the tax
credits are meted out over 10 years and equity can be tied up
for 15 years.  25% Discount  In a typical deal at current pricing, each $1 of credit
might be sold for 75 cents, up from low-60-cent range a year
earlier, Reznick’s Copeman said. When applied to the investor’s
tax bill, that discounted credit and depreciation could generate
an average annual after-tax yield of about 10 percent over the
life of the investment.  The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is about 2.47
percent, down from 3.22 percent a year earlier. The yield on
U.S. investment-grade debt is 3.64 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Corporate investors are helping fill a gap left by mortgage
companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which together accounted
for about 35 percent of the market before the housing collapse
wiped out their profits and forced them to pull out in 2008.
Banks, which use investing in affordable housing to help meet
their obligations under the federal  Community Reinvestment Act ,
cut back after the financial crisis amid losses on mortgage
securities and leveraged-buyout loans.  Low-income housing tax-credit investments peaked at $8.9
billion in 2006, according to Ernst & Young. Yields that year
were about 4.25 percent.  Google Seeks Good  Google, whose motto is “Don’t Be Evil,” put $86 million
into a tax-credit fund managed by a unit of U.S. Bancorp, which
will direct equity to 480 affordable rental units in the West
and Midwest, the Minneapolis-based bank said in an Aug. 30
statement. In a separate deal earlier this year, San Francisco-
based UnionBanCal Corp. said it will manage and syndicate a $25
million investment from Google in projects in California.  Jane Penner , a spokeswoman for the Mountain View,
California-based search-engine company, didn’t return calls
seeking comment. In the August statement, Google Treasurer  Brent Callinicos  said the investment “allows us to further our goal
of providing relief to people who otherwise may not have access
to quality housing.”  $60 Million  Waste Management, North America’s largest trash hauler,
acquired a stake in a limited-liability company in April that
invests in low-income properties, the company said in a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Its $221
million infusion includes an upfront payment of $6 million.  The Houston-based company expects a net cash benefit of
about $60 million over the next decade, said  Jim Alderson ,
director of investor relations.  “We’re able to offset our tax liability by making this
investment,” Alderson said. “It has the added benefit of
supporting affordable housing.”  Kroger Co. , the largest U.S. grocery chain, invested about
$40 million this year in a tax-credit fund, said  Jack Casey ,
vice president at Meridian Investments Inc. in Potomac,
Maryland, which has structured and helped sell $9 billion in
affordable-housing transactions. Meridian tracks industry
transactions.  Meghan Glynn , a spokeswoman for Cincinnati-based
Kroger, declined to comment.  Fannie, Freddie Depart  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the largest U.S. mortgage-
finance companies, had accumulated at least $8.4 billion in
credits before halting investments in 2008 when the federal
government took control of the government-sponsored enterprises.  “When Fannie and Freddie went out of the business, it cut
the pool of investors nearly in half,” said Brian Lawlor,
commissioner of New York state’s  Division of Housing & Community
Renewal . “It took a good year for syndicators to beat the
bushes to find other investors.”  Lenders such as  Bank of America Corp.  and JPMorgan Chase &
Co., securities firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
 Morgan Stanley , and other financial institutions still account
for about 75 percent of the market, Meridian’s Casey said.
Insurers make up an additional 20 percent.  The recovery in deal volume and entrance of new investors
may provide states, which manage the allocation of credits, with
funding for hard-to-finance rural projects, Reznick’s Copeman
said. Banks tend to focus on densely populated areas where their
branches are concentrated and demand for affordable housing is
high.  Market Distortions  Developments in rural areas and some inner cities can
generate higher yields. That’s because developers have to offer
better discounts on tax credits to attract investors.  Renewed interest in low-income housing may distort the
market, said  Kirk McClure , an urban planning professor at the
University of Kansas in Lawrence. Too much money is going to
sparsely populated areas where affordable-housing rents are not
much different than already low market rates. In some cases, new
projects are competing for tenants with existing federally
subsided projects, he said.  The arrival of new return-focused investors could send the
syndicators who put together deals in search of even more
unnecessary projects, according to McClure. The federal
government should consider allowing states where housing is
relatively cheap to use the subsidies for other purposes, he
said.  Started in 1986  “For states, it’s use it or lose it,” McClure said.
“Their attitude is that they don’t want federal dollars to
leave the state.”  The low-income housing tax credits program, created in
1986, gives state authorities the ability to issue credits for
acquisition, rehabilitation or new construction of rental
housing, primarily for poor workers and seniors.  While industrial and consumer companies were among the
initial institutional investors, they began to drop out as
yields declined in the mid-2000s. That left banks, which have a
lower cost of capital and community-reinvestment
responsibilities, and mortgage companies and insurers.  The discount on the credits vary based on location,
investor demand and the track records of the developer and
syndicator. Developers are able to charge below-market rents
because the equity infusions lower their debt costs.  The most popular locations for credit investments are
typically heavily populated areas with a lot of banks, such as
New York and Los Angeles, and where market-rate rents are high.  New York, Michigan  “We have a weird situation where if you have a housing
credit deal in New York City, as a developer, you can command 95
cents on the dollar,” Reznick’s Copeman said. “But if your job
is in Michigan, it will be in the low 60s. There’s an enormous
spread between CRA hot, and CRA not.”  Projects rarely fail because demand for the housing is
strong, especially in expensive cities, said Percy Vaz, chief
executive officer of  AMCAL Multi-Housing Inc. , a developer based
in Agoura Hills, California.  The portion of Americans living in poverty rose to 14.3
percent in 2009, the highest level in 15 years, from 13.2
percent a year earlier, the Census Bureau said Sept. 16.  “When we build a building, even in the worst part of a
recession, we would fill up instantly,” he said.  Business Is Booming  Joe Hagan , chief executive officer of National Equity Fund,
a Chicago-based syndicator, said his company expects to be
involved in $700 million of affordable-housing investments in
2010. In 2009, it brokered $350 million in private-investor
deals. Hagan’s concern is that the popularity of tax credits
could work against it.  “What keeps me up at night is that because of our
success, returns start coming down to the point where the new
investors step out of the market,” Hagan said. “Then we’re
back to the drawing board.”  Meridian’s Casey said that while nonfinancial corporations
are jumping in, more would do so if accounting rules were
changed so that the credits didn’t reduce reported pretax
profits, a measure tracked by investors and analysts. Investment
returns are based on the reduction of taxes, which increase net
income.  Casey and Copeman said they discussed that idea with
officials at the U.S. Treasury Department and the Housing and
Urban Development last month during a meeting with industry
professionals.  “You’ll have everybody from railroads to utilities to
service companies coming in,” Casey said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Prashant Gopal  in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 