-- Reynolds Group Sells $3 Billion of Debt to Help Finance Pactiv Acquisition
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-06T20:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/reynolds-group-sells-3-billion-of-debt-to-help-finance-pactiv-acquisition.html
Reynolds Group Holdings Ltd., the
packaging manufacturer owned by New Zealand billionaire  Graeme Hart , sold $3 billion of notes in the second-largest offering of
high-yield, high-risk corporate debt this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Proceeds will be used to help pay for Reynolds Group’s $6
billion purchase of Pactiv Corp., the maker of Hefty trash bags,
according to an Oct. 1 statement distributed by Business Wire.  Reynolds Group, the maker of Reynolds Wrap foil, is tapping
the corporate bond market as borrowing costs for junk-rated
companies fall to the lowest in more than three years. Sales of
the debt to raise money for acquisitions comprise 15 percent of
offerings this year, compared with 5 percent in 2009, according
to data compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Given the name, the brands and the fact that it’s an
existing issuer should make its reception easier,” said  Sabur Moini , a money manager who oversees $1.7 billion of high-yield
debt at Payden & Rygel in Los Angeles. “It’s probably not going
to be that kind of deal that trades up wildly because it’s so
much paper.”  Reynolds Group sold $1.5 billion of 8.5-year secured notes
that yield 7.125 percent and a similar amount of unsecured debt
of the same maturity that pays 9 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Other Financing  In addition to the bond sale, Reynolds Group borrowed $2
billion in loans to help pay for its acquisition of Lake Forest,
Illinois-based Pactiv. The company also will use about $734
million in equity and cash, it said in a statement.  Moody’s Investors Service graded the secured debt Ba3 and
the unsecured notes Caa1. Standard & Poor’s ranked the secured
bonds BB and the unsecured debt B. Credit Suisse Group AG and
HSBC Holdings Plc are managing the sale, the person said.  Yields on corporate junk bonds fell to 7.96 percent
yesterday, the lowest since June 2007, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index.  High yield, high-risk -- or junk -- debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  Frontier Communications Corp. sold $3.2 billion of notes on
March 26 in this year’s biggest sale of high-yield corporate
bonds, Bloomberg data show.  Reynolds Group’s offering follows its $1 billion sale of
eight-year notes on April 28 to help pay for its purchase of the
Evergreen Packaging group of companies and the Whakatane Mill, a
New Zealand paper mill.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Alan Goldstein
at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 