-- Trichet `Trapped' by Banks' Addiction to ECB Cash: Euro Credit
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-10-07T07:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/trichet-exit-path-blocked-as-banks-stay-hooked-on-ecb-funds-euro-credit.html
European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  staked his reputation on propping up banks with
cheap cash during the financial crisis. Now credit markets won’t
let him take away that support.  Near-record borrowing costs for nations across the euro
region’s periphery are making it harder for the ECB to wean
commercial banks off the lifeline it introduced two years ago.
The extra yield that investors demand to hold  Irish  and  
Portuguese  debt over Germany’s rose last week to 454 basis
points and 441 basis points respectively. Spain’s spread hit a
two-month high.  The risk for the ECB is that it gets pulled deeper into
helping the banking systems of the most indebted nations in the
16-member euro bloc. Governing Council member  Ewald Nowotny  said
Sept. 6 that addiction to ECB liquidity is “a problem” that
“needs to be tackled.” Complicating the ECB’s task is that
interbank lending rates have risen, tightening credit conditions
and making access to market funding more expensive for banks.  “The ECB is trapped and the exit door is blocked,” said
 Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “The state of credit markets is
going to force them to stay in crisis mode for longer than some
of them would like.”  The ECB’s 22-member Governing Council convenes today in
Frankfurt. Policy makers will set the  benchmark lending rate  at
a record low of 1 percent for an 18th month, according to all 52
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . That announcement is due
at 1:45 p.m. and Trichet holds a press conference 45 minutes
later.  ‘Knock-On Effect’  The ECB meets after a month in which tensions in European
credit markets intensified.  Irish 10-year bond yields soared to a record on Sept. 29 
versus German bunds on concern the bailouts of  Anglo Irish 
Bank  Corp.  and  Allied Irish Banks Plc  would overwhelm 
government finances. The Portuguese-German 10-year yield 
spread, which hit a record on Sept. 28, was at 398 basis points 
today, up from 88 basis points on March 10.  Rising sovereign borrowing costs are “having a knock-on
effect on their banks’ ability to roll their short-term
financing at interest rates that make economic sense,” said
 James Nixon , co-chief European economist at Societe Generale SA
in London. That’s “leaving the banks in these countries heavily
dependent on ECB financing,” he said.  Unlimited Lending  The ECB’s response to the financial crisis was to lend
banks as much cash as they needed at its benchmark rate for as
long as 12 months.  While it has phased out its 12- and 6-month loans, the
central bank still lends unlimited amounts in its weekly,
monthly and three-month tenders. In May, it was forced to
reintroduce the unlimited three-month loans and start buying
government bonds as Europe’s deepening debt crisis started to
threaten the survival of the euro.  Now policy makers are voicing concern that some banks’
reliance on the funds may prevent the ECB from exiting its
emergency measures when it sees fit.  “These banks should be addressed by national authorities,
otherwise we would have so-called zombie banks for some time,”
ECB council member  Mario Draghi  said on Oct. 1. The ECB must be
free “from the constraint” of such dependency on its funding
before it can implement an exit strategy, he said.  Rising interbank borrowing costs may also complicate the
ECB’s withdrawal of liquidity.  Tightening Bias  The rate banks say they pay each other for three-month
loans in euros this week jumped to the highest in 14 months,
while the  EONIA  overnight rate was at 0.44 percent today, up
from 0.36 percent on Sept. 3.  The ECB has so far signaled less willingness than the other
major central banks to take further action to support the
economy as the global recovery slows.  The ECB is “in the process of phasing out the non-standard
measures” and loans maturing in the fourth quarter “won’t be
renewed,” Executive Board member  Juergen Stark  said last week.  By contrast, the Bank of Japan dropped its interest rate to
“virtually zero” this week and expanded its asset-purchase
program, while Federal Reserve and Bank of England officials are
considering further easing to boost growth.  With the ECB unlikely to match other nations’ “expansive
monetary policy measures,” the euro may continue to strengthen,
crimping the region’s exports and economic expansion, economists
at WestLB AG said in a research note. The single currency has
gained 17 percent against the dollar in the past four months and
touched $1.3982 today, the highest since February.  ‘A Bit Odd’  “It’s a bit odd that the ECB seems to be in tightening
mode when all other central banks are mulling more stimulus for
their economies,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of interest-rate
strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  Banks shouldn’t expect the ECB to join the global easing
push any time soon, said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING
Group in Brussels.  While the central bank is unlikely to turn off its
liquidity taps this year, “the ECB’s weakest-link monetary
policy will not last forever,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  