-- Rio Says Diamonds to Extend Gains as Dwindling Supply Fails to Meet Demand
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-10-06T12:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/rio-says-rough-diamond-prices-to-extend-gains-as-supplies-fall.html
Rough-diamond prices will extend
gains through the next decade as dwindling production fails to
meet rising demand from India and China,  Rio Tinto Group  said.  “We have seen a rapid recovery and prices are back to pre-
crisis levels,”  Harry Kenyon-Slaney , chief executive officer of
diamonds and minerals at London-based Rio, said in an interview.
“What we see going forward is a long decline in production and
a significant growth in demand.”  Diamond miners are struggling to keep pace with growing
consumption in emerging economies as older mines are exhausted
and producers lack new discoveries. Prices of rough, or
unpolished, diamonds have risen as much as 91 percent from a
six-year low in early 2009 as jewelry sales collapsed, according
to data compiled by  WWW International Diamond Consultants Ltd .  “From about 2015 you are going to really see very strong
price increases,” said  Des Kilalea , an analyst at RBC Capital
Markets in London. “By the end of the decade China will
probably be 30 percent of the market. It just doesn’t look like
there is going to be enough diamonds” to meet demand, he said.
China consumed 8 percent of global output last year.  Global production fell to 161.1 million carats in 2008 from
176 million in 2005, RBC said. Output in Botswana, the biggest
source of the gems, declined for three straight years, while
production in Australia dropped by more than half over the
period, it said.  De Beers, Alrosa  World output slumped a further 30 percent during the
recession in 2009 as Johannesburg-based De Beers shuttered mines
and Russia’s  ZAO Alrosa  halted sales to adapt to lower demand,
according to IFC Metropol. Now companies including Rio, the
third-largest producer after Alrosa and  De Beers , are seeking to
restore growth in output.  Rio said last month it would invest $803 million to
complete the underground expansion of its Argyle mine in Western
Australia, the biggest diamond mine in the world, after slowing
development of the project in 2009. The company estimates the
expansion will extend the life of the mine until 2019.  “Rio is making it its business to be in diamonds,” said
RBC’s Kilalea, who  rates Rio  “outperform,” adding that the
diamond division remains smaller than other units. “Compared
with iron ore and aluminum, it’s tiny,” he said.  Gem Diamonds Ltd., a miner in southern Africa and
Australia, said Aug. 24 that the average selling price of the
precious stones from its Letseng mine in Lesotho rose to $1,728
a carat in the first six months of 2010 from $1,308 a year
earlier. A carat is a fifth of a gram.  Asian Buyers  Rio is targeting a slice of the market in emerging
economies, where diamond sales are rising as a more affluent
middle class seeks luxury goods.  De Beers  forecast last year
that Chinese diamond consumption will grow to 16 percent of
global output in 2015, double its share in 2009, while Indian
demand will rise to 11 percent from 7 percent.  “China, India and the Middle East will be the pace-setters
in an upturn in global cut-diamond demand,”  Andrey Lobazov , an
analyst at Metropol, said last month. “Under conditions of
rising demand, this could mean a diamond deficit as soon as
2012, which would drive raw-diamond prices higher.”  In July, De Beers reported an 84 percent jump in first-half
rough-diamond sales, while Alrosa said prices may climb as much
as 31 percent by 2018 from 2008 and output will return to pre-
crisis levels of 165 million carats a year no earlier than 2015.  Dwindling Supply  Production at many of the world’s biggest mines is falling
as supplies of more accessible diamonds near the surface are
depleted. De Beers’s  Orapa mine  in Botswana began output in
1971, while its Jwaneng project, the world’s largest diamond
mine by production value, and Rio’s Argyle started in 1982. The
last major mine to enter production was Rio’s Diavik in 2003.  “We’ve reached peak diamonds, there have been no new
discoveries,”  John Ryder , chief executive officer of Canada’s
 Dianor Resources Inc. , said by phone from Toronto. Dianor is
seeking to extract as much as 20,000 carats from a sampling
program at Canada’s Leadbetter project next year. “As stability
occurs in China and India and they continue on their rise, I
think we will see quite a demand and prices will reflect that.”  The expansion of Rio’s  Argyle mine  will boost flagging
production at the site to an average 20 million carats a year
during its life, Kenyon-Slaney said in an Oct. 1 interview. The
mine produced 10.6 million carats in 2009, compared with 29.7
million carats a decade earlier.  Argyle supplies 90 percent of the world’s pink diamonds,
used exclusively for jewelry. Those gems account for 1 percent
of production at the site. The mine, which has operated since
1983 and produced more than 670 million carats, has generated
more than $6 billion in sales, according to Rio’s  website .  Rio also owns a 60 percent stake in the Diavik mine in
Canada and 78 percent of the  Murowa mine  in Zimbabwe. It may
consider expansion at Murowa if the “political situation”
allows it, Kenyon-Slaney said. The mine, which produced 97,000
carats in 2009 and has capacity of 200,000 to 300,000 carats a
year, could produce more than 1 million if expanded, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Biesheuvel  in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 