-- Romanian Court Rejects Challenges to IMF-Backed Pension Law Canghes
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-10-06T11:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/romanian-court-begins-debate-on-challenges-to-imf-backed-pension-changes.html
Romania’s Constitutional Court
rejected opposition challenges to changes to the pension system,
which the government approved to meet the terms of an
international bailout loan.  The court’s nine judges, who in June rejected a government
plan to cut pensions, today decided that raising the retirement
age to 65 for both men and women and future inflation-tied
pensions are constitutional. President  Traian Basescu  has to
sign off on the law before it can be implemented.  “We decided today with a majority of votes that the pension
law is constitutional,” Judge and Court President Augustin
Zegrean said in a phone interview from Bucharest today. “Now the
law goes to the president for promulgation.”  Romania, the  European Union’s  second-poorest member, is
relying on a 20 billion-euro ($27.5 billion) loan led by the
International Monetary Fund while it struggles to cut its budget
deficit and recover from its worst  recession  on record.  Prime Minister  Emil Boc ’s government raised the value-added
tax by 5 percentage points and cut public wages by 25 percent to
meet an IMF-agreed budget-deficit target of 6.8 percent of gross
domestic product.  Leu Gains  The leu gained 0.3 percent to 4.2697 per euro as of 1:30
p.m. in Bucharest. It has lost 0.9 percent this year, the worst
performance among the 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The IMF on Sept. 24 agreed to disburse $1.19 billion from
the bailout after lawmakers approved the pension legislation and
paid 1.9 billion lei ($617 million) in overdue debt to private
companies, the conditions to unlock that payment.  “I have every expectation that things will turn out right
this time,”  Jeffrey Franks , the  International Monetary Fund’s 
mission chief to Romania, said in by phone from Washington
before the court announcement. “If these adjustments aren’t made
now, our calculation shows that in 15 to 20 years the pension
budget deficit will reach 6 percent of gross domestic product
and that is totally unsuitable.”  A court ruling against the law might have forced Boc’s
ruling coalition to rework the pension law and seek a confidence
vote in parliament to speed up its approval, according to
Environment Minister  Laszlo Borbely . Boc survived a no-
confidence motion in June by eight votes after the same judges
said a plan to cut pensions by 15 percent was illegal.  Impeachment Threat  Social Democrat  leader Victor Ponta, who initiated the
challenges, said his party will ask Basescu not to sign off on
the law because the lower house of parliament passed it through
alleged irregularities, with more votes recorded than were
present. He threatened to attempt impeaching the president if he
signs the bill into law.  “I hope Basescu won’t promulgate this law and will ask
parliament to re-discuss and vote on it again to abide by the
law,” Ponta told journalists today in Bucharest after the court
announced its ruling.  Romania has met the conditions of the bailout from the IMF,
the EU, the World Bank and other lenders, receiving 15.8 billion
euros in payments since March last year. The nation stands to
get 4.3 billion euros by May. The pension overhaul will also
help Romania qualify for a 300 million-euro World Bank loan.  The austerity measures prompted protests by tens of
thousands of workers and boosted support for the opposition,
which has said plans to file a no-confidence motion against the
cabinet in the second half of this month.  Boc replaced six members of his cabinet, including the
economy and finance ministers, on Sept. 3 after the opposition
said it would seek to topple the government this year by filing
a motion of no-confidence.  “The government has tried to push these reforms through and
I think they will try to find a solution together with the IMF,”
 Tim Ash , head of emerging-market research at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc said in a phone interview from London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  