-- Royal Bank of Canada Raises View of U.S. Equities
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-10-06T16:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/royal-bank-of-canada-raises-view-of-u-s-equities-update1-.html
Investors should increase holdings of
U.S. stocks after better-than-estimated economic indicators,
Royal Bank of Canada strategist  Myles Zyblock  said.  The chief institutional strategist for Canada’s largest
bank raised his recommended investment in U.S. equities to
“neutral” from “below benchmark” in a report today, citing
data on initial jobless claims released Sept. 30 and the
Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-manufacturing
businesses released yesterday. The jobless claims number was
smaller, and the ISM index higher, than most economists in
Bloomberg surveys forecast.  “The collective signal offered by key macro data over the
past month has encouraged us to upgrade the equity market from
underweight to market weight,” Zyblock wrote.  Both the U.S. Labor Department’s numbers on first-time
unemployment claims and the Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s  index  of
service industries tend to move in the same direction as stocks,
he wrote.  Investors should avoid pouring money into cyclical
industries, or those that are closely correlated to the
performance of the broader economy, as growth remains
“sluggish,” Zyblock said. Instead, they should continue to
seek out “quality” individual stocks that pay dividends.  Technology stocks, which have  trailed  other industries this
year, are better bets than agriculture, machinery and equipment
and raw-materials stocks, which have outperformed to date, he
said.  Foreign Sales  S&P 500 companies that get most of their revenue from
outside of the U.S. have outperformed those with less than half
of their revenue from abroad by more than 4 percentage points in
the past month, Zyblock said.  Investors are speculating that the Federal Reserve will
launch a new round of securities-buying and the U.S. dollar,
which has  plunged  12 percent against a basket of world
currencies since June 7, will continue to fall, he said.  Companies including Chevron Corp., Novellus Systems Inc.
and AES Corp. are likely to benefit from a falling dollar, he
wrote. Each of those companies derives at least 58 percent of
its revenue from outside of the U.S., according to RBC data, and
is rated a “top pick” by RBC analysts.  RBC is Canada’s largest bank and North America’s seventh-
biggest by assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  