-- Rubber Sets Five-Month High as Monetary Easing Raises Commodities Appeal
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-10-06T07:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/rubber-sets-five-month-high-as-monetary-easing-raises-commodities-appeal.html
Rubber climbed to a five-month high,
mirroring a rally in commodities, after the Bank of Japan eased
its monetary policy, stoking speculation other central banks may
follow suit.  The March-delivery contract gained as much as 2.1 percent
to 324.1 yen per kilogram ($3,899 a metric ton), the highest
level since April 26, before settling at 321.7 yen on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange.  Japan’s central bank yesterday cut its benchmark overnight
interest rate for the first time since 2008 and pledged to hold
it at “virtually zero” until officials foresee a sustained end
to deflation. Gold reached a record and the Reuters/Jefferies
CRB Index of materials rose 1.6 percent yesterday, the biggest
gain since Sept. 1.  “Investor appetite for commodities is increasing as
central banks in advanced nations are moving to loosen their
monetary policy further to sustain economic recovery,” said
 Hisaaki Tasaka , an analyst at Tokyo-based broker ACE Koeki Co.
“Rubber was bought in tandem with metals and oil.”  The renewed push for monetary policy easing comes as the
International Monetary Fund warns growth in advanced economies
is falling short of its forecasts ahead of its annual meetings
in Washington this week.  Bank of England officials may consider further stimulus
tomorrow, while the central banks of Australia, Canada and New
Zealand are among those holding fire on interest-rate increases.  “The Bank of Japan is at the head of the pack,” said
 Stewart Robertson , an economist at Aviva Investors in London,
which manages about $370 billion in assets. “It looks like a
lot of others will follow.”  Rubber futures also increased as the physical market in
Thailand, the largest producer and exporter, extended gains on
tight supply, Tasaka at ACE Koeki said.  Auctioned price of ribbed smoked sheets in Thailand added
1.3 percent to 105.6 baht ($3.52), the Rubber Research Institute
of Thailand said today on its website.  The Shanghai market is closed for National Day holidays.  Natural-rubber inventories monitored by the bourse expanded
4,680 tons to 31,580 tons, based on a survey of 10 warehouses,
the exchange said Sept. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  