-- Ruble Currency Traders Capitulate as Bullish Bets Increase: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-10-07T15:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ruble-currency-traders-capitulate-as-bullish-bets-increase-russia-credit.html
Foreign-exchange traders have
capitulated on bets for a weaker ruble and are now more bullish
on Russia than most emerging markets as central bank Chairman
 Sergey Ignatiev  pushes appreciation to curb inflation while
policy makers from Brazil to South Korea seek to stem gains.  Options to sell rubles fell to the same price as those to
buy for the first time in more than three years yesterday,
putting the one-week risk-reversal rate at zero, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate -- the premium of put
options over calls -- was 2 percent for Brazil’s real, 2 percent
for South Korea’s won and 3 percent for Poland’s zloty today.  While Brazil doubled a tax on bond purchases by overseas
investors this week and South Korea plans to audit banks’
exchange trading, Russia aims to strengthen the ruble to combat
price increases after the worst drought in 50 years. Demand for
the nation’s assets is rising as a jump in oil bolsters the
economy of the world’s biggest energy exporter. The  extra yield 
investors demand to hold Russian debt rather than U.S.
Treasuries has fallen 3 basis points this week to 224 yesterday,
near the lowest for 2 1/2 weeks, JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+
indexes show.  “If governments in other big developing economies continue
to threaten restrictive actions to halt currency appreciation
and capital inflows, the ruble should benefit as investors
switch their attention to other currencies,”  Chris Weafer ,
chief strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, said in
e-mailed comments yesterday. “The government’s willingness to
tolerate an appreciation as part of the effort to control
inflation growth creates a positive backdrop for the ruble.”  More Bullish  Traders were more bullish on the ruble than any of the 23
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the
Taiwanese dollar, Chinese yuan and Hong Kong dollar, based on
one-week risk-reversal rates yesterday.  Investor sentiment is shifting after the ruble slid 2.8
percent against the central bank’s target  dollar-euro basket  in
September, the biggest monthly decline since Russia’s
devaluation at the height of the credit crisis in January 2009,
as demand for dollar loans helped weaken the currency.  This month, the ruble is the world’s second-best performer
against the euro and dollar, and has gained 1.6 percent against
the basket. The ruble climbed to a five-month high versus the
dollar today, appreciating as much as 1.1 percent to 29.57 per
dollar. It dropped 0.5 percent to 41.61 per euro by the 5 p.m.
close of trading in Moscow, after hitting a one-week high
yesterday.  Oil Prices  The currency is being buoyed by the highest oil prices in
five months amid speculation the U.S., the world’s biggest
energy consumer, will continue its economic recovery. Crude,
Russia’s chief export earner, hit $84.43 a barrel yesterday, the
highest since May 4. Gross domestic product grows by about half
a percentage point for every $10 increase in the oil price,
according to Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach .  “Ruble weakness is a thing of the past,”  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency strategy in Frankfurt at
Commerzbank AG, Germany’s second-biggest lender, said in e-
mailed comments yesterday. “Depreciation pressures were never
going to last long with an oil price well above the $82 mark.”  Russia’s lower interest rates compared with other
developing nations will damp the appeal of the ruble, according
to  Roderick Ngotho , an emerging-markets currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Carry Trade  The so-called implied yield, or carry, paid to investors
who bet on the ruble using one-year non-deliverable forwards is
at 4 percent today, less than double the yield offered on
Brazilian real NDFs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Turkish lira forwards offer a yield of 6.87 percent, while the
implied yield on Polish zloty forwards was 3.13 percent.  Russia’s 2.5 percent deposit rate is lower than Brazil’s
benchmark interest rate of 10.75 percent, Turkey’s 6.25 percent
and Poland’s 3.5 percent rate.  “Russia is just not a juicy trade any more, places like
Brazil are in a different league,” Ngotho said in a phone
interview from London. “Russia’s economy is weak and the ruble
offers hardly any carry compared to other emerging markets.
People realize there is much better value elsewhere.”  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell 7 basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.30 percent today, the
lowest level since they were sold in April. The country’s ruble
notes due August 2016 rose, pushing the yield down 14 basis
points to 7.16 percent, the lowest since Aug. 6.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell 0.7 basis point to
145.5 points today, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
are 0.8 basis point more than contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 4 basis points to 220 points
today, according to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 159 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 200 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 52 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Inflation  As Russia’s economy expands,  inflation  may accelerate to
as much as 8 percent this year, the highest level since January,
Klepach said Aug. 30, revising an earlier forecast after the
drought pushed up food prices. Russia imports almost half of the
consumer goods sold in the country, according to government
estimates. A stronger ruble would help Russia control inflation
by bringing down prices on imports, UralSib’s Weafer said.  Countries from South Korea to Brazil are taking a different
approach as near-zero interest rates in the U.S. prompt
investors to seek higher returns in emerging markets. Tensions
over exchange rate policies prompted Brazil’s Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  to warn Sept. 27 of a “currency war.”  Mantega doubled the tax on foreign purchases of bonds this
week to 4 percent to halt the real’s 29 percent appreciation in
two years and shore up exports. Korea will audit banks’ foreign-
currency derivatives from Oct. 19, after the won surged the most
against the dollar for a year in September.  Taiwan, Thailand  Taiwan’s central bank has intervened to stall gains in its
dollar, South Africa has bought dollars to arrest a
strengthening rand, and Thailand’s central bank said this week
it’s looking at ways to control foreign purchases of its
currency. Offshore inflows are becoming a “problem” for
emerging markets, Reserve Bank of India Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said Oct. 5. In Japan, policy makers sold the yen last
month for the first time in six years and cut its interest rate
to “virtually zero” this week to curb currency gains.  The Federal Reserve’s policy of cutting interest rates to a
record low has had repercussions worldwide, including currency
misalignments and the risk of asset price bubbles, Nobel Prize-
winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said in a Bloomberg Television
interview yesterday.  “The worry is that the flood of liquidity is going to
cause what is sometimes being referred to as an emerging-market
bubble,” Stiglitz said.  Sudan  Bank Rossii’s Ignatiev has been selling foreign currency to
arrest the ruble’s decline. The central bank sold $1.5 billion
of dollars and euros last month, the first month since August
last year that they sold foreign currency without buying any,
according to data published on the bank’s web site today.  Russia isn’t alone in seeking to strengthen its currency.
Sudan increased the amount of foreign currency supplied to banks
by 50 percent on Sept. 30 to stop the African country’s pound
from falling. Romanian policy makers sold euros last month to
prevent the leu from weakening beyond a target range, according
to  Elisabeth Andreew , chief currency analyst at Nordea Bank AB
in Copenhagen.  The central bank expects the ruble to strengthen and is
becoming “marginal” on the currency markets, Ulyukayev said on
Oct. 5. Bank Rossii, which plans to shift to a free floating
currency and inflation targeting policy by 2012, has made
“serious progress in liberalizing the exchange rate” this
year, he said.  Three-month non-deliverable forwards, which provide a guide
to expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against fluctuations,
show the ruble at 30.0189 per dollar today, near the strongest
since Aug 3.  “The ruble is like a phoenix from the ashes,”  Roman Sulzhyk , head of rates trading at Deutsche Bank AG in Moscow,
said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “It has long been a
laggard amongst emerging markets and is playing catch-up now. I
think the rally has legs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  