-- Russia Economy May Stagnate, Sapping Government Popularity, Tsyvinski Says
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-10-06T14:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/russia-economy-may-stagnate-sapping-government-popularity-tsyvinski-says.html
Russia is facing a “significant”
slowdown in economic growth, which will strip away the
government’s popularity, said  Aleh Tsyvinski , co-director of the
macroeconomics program at Yale University’s Cowles Foundation.  “There will be a significant  slowdown  in growth,” he said
today in an interview in Moscow. “This is fraught with serious
political and economic problems. It’s no secret that the
popularity of the people in power greatly hinges on the big
increase in the standard of living of average Russians.”  Russia’s  average monthly wage , adjusted for inflation, rose
an average of 14 percent annually from 1999 through 2007, a
period in which economic expansion averaged 8 percent a year,
according to the Federal Statistics Service.  Annual growth may slow to 2 percent in 2011-2013 if prices
for oil and gas, Russia’s chief export earners, fall, Deputy
Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said today at an investment
conference in Moscow. The ministry forecasts growth of 3.9
percent to 4.5 percent in the next three years, although Russia
will need to “fight” to achieve it, Klepach said.  Russia’s economy will “face stagnation” similar to that
experienced during the reign of  Leonid Brezhnev , who led the
Soviet Union from 1964-1982, if oil prices remain around $70 to
$80 a barrel, said Tsyvinski, 32, who is a professor at Yale in
New Haven, Connecticut, and Moscow’s New Economic School.  Tighter Regulation  For Russia, economic expansion of around 3 percent
constitutes stagnation and is comparable to the U.S. economy
contracting 1 percent, he said.  “When  oil prices  were increasing and investors were
expecting significant growth, Russia was an interesting country
for them,” Tsyvinski said. “With oil prices between $70 and
$80 a barrel, Russia becomes a lot less attractive.”  There will be tighter financial regulation after the global
economic crisis, so less money will flow to emerging markets,
Tsyvinski said. Russia will have to compete against Brazil and
China for investment and it’s looking less attractive, he said.  Foreign direct investment into Russia, the world’s biggest
energy exporter, fell an annual 11 percent to $5.4 billion in
the first half, according to the Federal Statistics Service.  The Russian government estimates 2010 economic growth of 4
percent following last year’s 7.9 percent contraction, the
deepest on record. Russia’s gross domestic product grows by
about half a percentage point for every $10 increase in the
price of a barrel of oil, according to Klepach.  ‘New Quality of Growth’  Urals, Russia’s export blend of crude, reached a low for
the year at $67.42 on May 25, climbing back up to $83.94 a
barrel today, according to Bloomberg data. This compares with a
low of $32.34 a barrel in December of 2008, the first year
Russia’s economy contracted after nine consecutive years of
expansion.  “We need a new quality of growth,”  Andrei Kostin , chief
executive officer of VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest lender,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday. “We
need a restructuring of the economy if we want to avoid the
situation which we faced during the crisis.”  Overall capital investment in Russia accounts for 20
percent of GDP and one third of that investment goes to the
energy sector, according to Klepach.  “The need for Russia to diversify away from energy is
stronger than ever,” Ruchir Sharma, head of emerging markets at
Morgan Stanley said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  