-- RWE Is Said to Consider Sale of Stake in German Power Transmission Network
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-10-06T10:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/rwe-is-said-to-consider-sale-of-stake-in-german-power-transmission-network.html
RWE AG  is considering selling a stake
in its German power grid unit to cut investment as the
government plans levies on the country’s biggest utilities,
according to a person with knowledge the matter.  RWE could sell as much as 75 percent of the unit, called
Amprion, to a company that doesn’t compete with RWE in power
generation or transmission, such as a financial investor, said
the person, who asked to remain anonymous because the matter is
private. RWE wants to maintain the division as part of the
company and remain the operator of its assets, said the person.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  plans to raise an annual
2.3 billion euros ($3.2 billion) in the six years through 2016
from the country’s four biggest utilities to help plug the
deficit. RWE competitors E.ON AG and Vattenfall AB have sold
their high-voltage power lines to satisfy European Union
regulators, reduce debt and save on spending.  Annett Urbaczka, a spokeswoman for Essen, Germany-based
RWE, declined to comment. “RWE considers Amprion’s power grid
business to be an important part of its strategy as an
integrated utility,” the spokeswoman said.  German newspaper Westfaelische Rundschau reported yesterday
that the utility may sell a 75 percent stake in Amprion to a
pension fund.  Germany’s second-largest utility may delay maintenance work
at coal-fired power plants and reduce spending on its
electricity grid as the planned tax saps its cash, Rolf Schmitz,
RWE’s board member for Germany, said in an interview last month.  Goals Review  The utility had planned to spend about 50 percent of its
annual 2.1 billion euros budget for Germany on sales and
distribution, according to a company  presentation  from August.
RWE put its mid-term goals under review after the tax was
announced and said it plans to provide an update in February.  Amprion has an 11,000 kilometer grid that supplies about 27
million people in western and southern Germany, according to its
 website . The division, which is based in the German city of
Dortmund, had 5.7 billion euros in  revenue  last year, according
to RWE’s report on 2009.  Dutch electricity-grid operator TenneT BV won European
Union antitrust approval to buy E.ON’s network for 1.1 billion
euros in February. Elia System Operator NV, Belgium’s high-
voltage grid operator, and Industry Funds Management Ltd. won EU
approval for their 810 million-euro purchase of Vattenfall’s
German power lines in May.  Germany’s planned 2.3 billion-euro nuclear fuel tax and
contributions to a government-run renewable energy fund will cut
RWE’s annual recurrent net income, which it uses to calculate
its dividend, by 500 million euros from 2011, the company said
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  