-- ArcelorMittal Stake Sale Avoids Censure of Regulators
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-10-06T17:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/s-africa-s-fsb-says-it-cannot-probe-arcelormittal-transaction.html
South African regulators said they
won’t intervene in  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd.’s  planned
sale of a 9.1 billion rand ($1.3 billion) stake to a group of
black investors that includes one of President  Jacob Zuma’s 
sons, amid growing opposition from minority investors and
political parties.  “It’s got nothing to do with us,” Financial Services
Board spokesman  Russel Michaels  said by phone from Pretoria
today. The FSB regulates all financial services in South Africa
apart from banking.  The Securities Regulation Panel , which regulates takeovers
in South Africa, said the transaction doesn’t fall within its
jurisdiction because it doesn’t involve a change in control.  JSE
Ltd.  director of listings  John Burke  said the exchange’s rules
will only apply if the deal is a related party transaction.  ArcelorMittal South Africa, a unit of the world’s largest
steelmaker, is facing opposition from minority shareholders to
its plan to sell 26 percent of its business to a group of black
investors known as the Ayigobi Consortium, which includes
 Duduzane Zuma . The opposition Democratic Alliance party today
said it will ask the Financial Services Board to probe the deal
if its approved by shareholders.  South Africa’s Public Investment Corp., the steelmaker’s
largest minority shareholder, said on Oct. 4 it has reservations
about the transaction and will oppose the deal. The pension fund
manager said it “questions the ethics” of the proposal.  ‘Monitoring Very Closely’  ArcelorMittal South Africa, 9.1 percent-owned by PIC, also
faces opposition from other shareholders, including Sanlam Ltd.,
the biggest South Africa-based insurer, the Old Mutual
Investment Group of South Africa and Element Investment
Managers. RMB Asset Management, a unit of FirstRand Bank Ltd.,
will also oppose the planned transaction, Business Day said on
Oct. 1, citing a person at the fund manager it didn’t identify.  ArcelorMittal is “monitoring the situation in South Africa
very closely,” ArcelorMittal South Africa spokesman  Themba Hlengani  said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.
The company has “no further comment to make at this time.”  The transaction with Ayigobi depends on the awarding of
mineral rights to one of the group’s investors, Imperial Crown
Trading Ltd. ICT was awarded disputed mining rights for the
Sishen iron-ore deposit, previously held by ArcelorMittal South
Africa. Imperial won the Sishen license after ArcelorMittal
South Africa missed a renewal deadline, sparking a battle with
 Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. , the mine’s owner, which demanded the
disputed rights for itself. Kumba used the conflict to cancel a
deal with ArcelorMittal South Africa that had given the
steelmaker most of its ore at a discount.  Destruction of Wealth  That the potential transaction values ICT at 1 billion rand
is “obscene” and represents a “a destruction of shareholders’
wealth on a technicality,” said  Simon Hudson-Peacock , head of
specialist equities at Cape Town-based Cadiz Asset Management.
“The shenanigans should be set right by a court.”  With ArcelorMittal holding the majority stake in the South
African unit and financial regulators not involved in the mining
rights issue with no jurisdiction over the disposal of a 26
percent stake, the only way the deal may be stopped is through
“political pressure and reputational risk,” said David
Couldridge, an investment analyst at Element Investment
Managers, which owns shares in the steelmaker.  The so-called empowerment deal comes under laws that compel
companies to sell stakes to black investors to make up for
apartheid, the segregation policy that ended in 1994.  Shares of ArcelorMittal South Africa fell 16 cents, or 0.2
percent, to 82.40 rand as of the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg,
giving it a market value of 36.7 billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  