-- S&P to Expand Sovereign-Rating Service Amid Call for Caution
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-10-06T13:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/s-p-to-expand-sovereign-rating-service-amid-call-for-caution.html
Standard & Poor’s said its sovereign-
ratings division is set to expand even as the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union urge tougher regulation of
the business and more cautious use of recommendations.  The number of sovereign issuers rated by S&P may grow by 25
to 50 in the next decade from 126 now, S&P said today in a
statement. The agency rated just seven countries in 1975.  “More than anything else, the fact that we rate 126
sovereigns underpins our conviction that Standard & Poor’s
credit ratings add value in this sector and, as a result, the
demand for them is still growing,”  David Beers , S&P’s global
head of sovereign and international public finance ratings, said
in the statement from London.  The growth forecast comes as finance ministers from around
the world prepare to gather in Washington to discuss global
financial regulation at the IMF, which last week warned against
“overreliance” on agencies. The current system has “flaws,”
though agencies can also “play an important and positive
role,” the IMF said in its Global Financial Stability report on
Sept. 29.  Growing scrutiny of ratings companies such as S&P and
Moody’s Investors Service is part of the regulatory fallout of
the financial crisis. Subprime mortgage securities with top
grades plummeted in value in late 2008 and early 2009 as
investors questioned their true value.  Greek Rating  In Europe, pressure grew after Greece’s rating was cut to
junk status by S&P’s in April, adding urgency to plans to bail
out the debt-plagued nation. The European Commission said last
week it will develop plans to create a European credit-ratings
agency and consider new regulations for existing rating
companies.  The Brussels-based commission will present proposals to
create “a new agency, particularly with a European dimension,”
and “new ways of dealing with sovereign-debt ratings by the
middle of 2011,” Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services
commissioner, said on Oct. 1.  The “economic and political implications” of sovereign-
debt ratings mean “it is particularly important that ratings of
this asset class be accurate, timely and transparent,”
according to a copy of a proposal obtained by Bloomberg News
that was presented by the commission at a meeting of EU finance
ministers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  