-- Sainsbury Second-Quarter Sales Accelerate on Premium Own-Brand
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-10-06T09:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/sainsbury-second-quarter-sales-growth-accelerates-on-premium-own-brands.html
J Sainsbury Plc , the U.K.’s third-
largest supermarket company, said sales growth accelerated in
the second quarter as customers bought more of its higher-priced
Taste the Difference products and non-food items.  Revenue at stores open at least a year rose 2.9 percent,
excluding fuel, London-based Sainsbury said today in a
statement. That compares with the first quarter’s 1.1 percent
growth and beat the 2 percent median  estimate  of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The U.K. grocer has expanded the Taste the Difference range
of own-label foods and is adding convenience stores and giving
more space to items including its Tu clothing range. Sainsbury’s
market share climbed to 16 percent in the three months through
Sept. 5, according to Kantar Worldpanel market-research company,
which said grocery inflation rose to 2.7 percent in the period.  “Sales momentum is good and there is no sense that gross
margins are under undue pressure,”  Nick Bubb , an analyst at
Arden Partners with a “neutral” recommendation on Sainsbury
shares, said today in an e-mail.  Non-food sales increased at three times the rate of food,
Sainsbury said. Online revenue jumped 25 percent.  “Our outlook is steady as she goes,” Chief Executive
Officer  Justin King  said on a conference call, while adding that
there “is no reason to suppose good news for the consumer.”  Sainsbury  fell  3 pence, or 0.8 percent, to 386.6 pence at
10 a.m. in London trading. The  stock  has risen 20 percent this
year, compared with larger rival Tesco Plc’s 2.4 percent gain.  Chinese Expansion?  A “small team” in China is looking at the opportunity to
open outlets in the Asian nation, the CEO said, adding that no
conversations have yet taken place on what type of format the
company would choose. The retailer already has about 100
employees in China, where it obtains supplies for stores.  “There has been much more talk about it in the press than
there has been at Sainsbury,” King said.  The second quarter comprised the 16 weeks ended Oct. 2.
Yesterday, Tesco reported a 1.3 percent increase in U.K. same-
store sales, excluding gasoline, for the first half.  “Sainsbury is clearly a good company with a strong
business model but with shares up more than 20 percent in 2010,
its valuation leaves little wriggle room,”  Justin Scarborough ,
retail analyst at RBS AG said. He has a “hold” rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 