-- Samsung Profit Misses Estimates, Fueling Concern Over Demand
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-10-07T07:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/samsung-profit-misses-estimates-as-prices-of-chips-flat-screens-decline.html
Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s
biggest maker of semiconductors, flat screens and mobile phones,
reported profit that missed analysts’ estimates, fueling concern
the global recovery in demand for electronics is stalling.  Third-quarter  operating income  rose 14 percent to 4.8
trillion won ($4.3 billion), the Suwon, South Korea-based
company said in a statement today. That lagged behind the 5.03
trillion won average of 11 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales gained 11 percent to 40 trillion won.  Samsung fell the most in more than four months, leading
shares of electronics makers lower in Asian trading, as the
results added to evidence consumers are holding back on
spending.  Sony Corp ., the world’s third-largest television
maker, said this week it’s concerned growth in demand may slow.  “Demand for technology products is pretty weak,” said Lee
Jin Woo, a fund manager with KTB Asset Management Co., which
manages $9.9 billion in assets in Seoul. “Investors need to
monitor the magnitude of the demand recovery.”  The International Monetary Fund yesterday lowered its
forecast for U.S. growth this year and 2011, predicting a
“slow” rebound restrained by a lack of consumer spending. The
world’s largest economy will grow 2.6 percent this year, down
from the 3.3 percent projected in July, Washington-based IMF
said. The world economy will expand 4.2 percent next year,
slower than its forecast of 4.3 percent three months ago.  Bad Margins  The weak demand and an oversupply of chips, panels and
televisions may further pull down prices, hurting profitability
at Samsung and rivals including LG Display Co., analysts said.  Samsung declined 2.9 percent to 770,000 won at the close of
trading in Seoul, the largest fall since May 17, while South
Korea’s benchmark Kospi stock index slipped 0.2 percent.
 Information-technology stocks  in the region fell 0.4 percent as
a group, the  biggest drag  on the MSCI Asia Pacific index today.  “Concerns about the fourth quarter will get more
serious,” said  Kim Young Joon , an analyst at LIG Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul. “It’s becoming increasingly certain
profitability from semiconductors will worsen and television
margins will stay bad because of prices.”  Shares of business-computing companies such as  VMware Inc. ,
the largest maker of virtualization software which helps
companies use computers more efficiently, tumbled in the U.S.
yesterday on concerns that sluggish economic growth will crimp
technology demand.  Elpida, LG  Elpida Memory Inc. , the world’s third-largest maker of
computer-memory chips, said this week slowing personal-computer
demand could damp chip prices and cause the company to miss
earnings forecasts.  With television manufacturers likely to cut prices to boost
sales, LG Display may report a loss in the fourth quarter, wrote
 Peter Yu , a Seoul-based analyst at BNP Paribas Securities (Asia)
in a note today. Yu cut his rating on the stock to “reduce”
from “hold.”  Samsung’s operating profit may be 200 billion won higher or
lower than today’s preliminary  estimate  when audited results are
published later this month, Samsung said. The company, also the
world’s largest maker of televisions and displays and the
second-largest maker of mobile phones, didn’t provide  net income 
figures and a breakdown of divisional earnings.  Chip Prices  Profit at the  display division  probably tumbled more than
60 percent to 392 billion won, while earnings at the digital-
media unit fell 73 percent to 252 billion won, according to a
survey of seven analysts by Bloomberg News before today’s
announcement. Prices of Samsung LCDs used in computers and TVs
fell 7.8 percent in the third quarter, according to estimates at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Profit at the semiconductor business almost tripled to 3.31
trillion won, according to the survey. Higher sales at the
company’s most profitable business, driven by demand for chips
used in digital devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone, and a cut
in production costs helped compensate for a decline in prices,
the analysts said.  Samsung’s mobile-phone division likely earned an operating
profit of 1.04 trillion won during the third quarter, little
changed from a year earlier, according to the survey.  Samsung, which introduced the Galaxy S smartphone in June,
has sold 5 million units of the handset and aims to sell another
5 million during the rest of the year, the company said in a
statement on Oct. 6.  The company also plans to sell phones that let consumers
browse the Internet and watch movies using Microsoft Corp.’s
Windows Phone 7 operating system this year in the U.S., Europe
and Asia, Samsung said on Oct.1. Samsung this year introduced
its Galaxy Tab tablet computer to take on Apple’s iPad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ; 