-- Saskatchewan Says No `Net Benefit' From BHP's Bid
-- B y   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-10-06T22:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/saskatchewan-s-boyd-says-bhp-s-potash-offer-not-net-benefit-.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s hostile $40
billion offer for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  doesn’t
appear to be beneficial to Saskatchewan, the Canadian province’s
Energy and Resources Minister  Bill Boyd  said.  “What’s on the table today appears to us to be not a net
benefit to Saskatchewan,” Boyd said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview with  Erik Schatzker .  Saskatchewan said it will advise the federal government of
its views on BHP’s $130-a-share bid. Under the Investment Canada
Act, the federal government can block transactions if it finds
they don’t provide a “net benefit” to the country. A  report  by
the Conference Board of Canada this week, commissioned by the
province, said Saskatchewan would lose C$2 billion ($1.99
billion) tax revenue over 10 years should BHP’s bid succeed.  There are “serious questions” as to whether Melbourne-
based BHP’s offer meets the criteria of the net-benefit test,
Boyd said.  “When you apply that test, the net benefit simply isn’t
there,” he said.  Ruban Yogarajah, a spokesman in London for BHP, wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  Potash Corp.  fell  $1.63, or 1.1 percent, to $141.38 as of
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Potash Corp., the world’s largest producer of its namesake
crop nutrient, in August rejected Melbourne-based BHP’s offer as
too low and said it was seeking other offers. The Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based company said yesterday it would encourage the
Saskatchewan government to remain open to reviewing alternative
bids “on a fact-based approach.”  ‘No Contact’  Sinochem Group, China’s largest fertilizer trader, has
emerged as the likeliest bidder to rival BHP, three people
familiar with the matter said on Sept. 27.  “We have had no other contact, formally or informally,
with a company about entering a bidding war,” Boyd said. “We
don’t see that happening so far.”  Canada on Oct. 4 extended the deadline for the review of
BHP’s offer by an additional 30 days. Lynn Meahan, a spokeswoman
for Industry Minister  Tony Clement , declined to comment.  BHP’s bid “will bring significant benefits to Saskatchewan
and to Canada,” the Australian company said Oct. 4. BHP, the
world’s biggest mining company, said in August that if it
acquires Potash Corp. it would make Saskatchewan the location of
its head office for potash operations, continue developing its
Jansen mine in the province, maintain employment levels and
propose a Canadian nominee for election to its board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 