-- HSBC Plans Its First Persian Gulf Shariah ETFs This Year: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-10-07T11:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/hsbc-plans-its-first-persian-gulf-shariah-etfs-islamic-finance.html
HSBC Holdings Plc , the second-largest
underwriter of Islamic bonds, plans to start its first Shariah-
compliant exchange traded funds in the Persian Gulf, a region
that is struggling to lure international investors.  ETFs may help local markets attract some of the $49.4
billion that EPFR Global says poured into emerging market stock
funds this year. Restrictions on foreign participation in Gulf
markets range from bans to caps on ownership. Investors have
sidestepped most countries in the Middle East and North Africa
during a recent surge in capital inflows to emerging markets
because of debt restructurings, the International Monetary Fund
said in a report released yesterday.  The funds will give overseas investors greater access to
the region’s markets,  Razi Fakih , deputy chief executive officer
of HSBC’s Islamic unit in Dubai, said in a telephone interview
Oct. 5.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC  started the Gulf’s first
non-Shariah compliant ETF in March, followed by Falcom Financial
Services’ Islamic fund in Saudi Arabia that month.  “We are at an advanced stage of launching Islamic ETFs in
the fourth quarter,” Fakih said. “ETFs will make up as much as
10 percent of the Islamic fund industry in the coming five
years.”  Assets held by Islamic funds rose to $52.3 billion in the
first quarter this year from $34.1 billion in all of 2005,
according to a study by  Ernst & Young LLP  published in June.
Global assets held by Shariah-compliant financial institutions
may climb to $1.6 trillion in 2012 from about $1 trillion, the
Islamic Financial Services Board said in April.  Foreign Access  The  Dow Jones Islamic Market World Index , which tracks
shares that meet Shariah guidelines and has a market
capitalization of $12 trillion, climbed 11 percent in the past
12 months, while the  Dow Jones Global Index  gained 10 percent
during the same period.  ETFs are index-based investment products that allow
investors to buy or sell shares of entire portfolios of stock in
a single security. The funds are unique in that they combine the
opportunities of indexing with the advantages of stock trading.  Prior to the start of Saudi Arabia’s Falcom ETF, non-
resident foreigners were only permitted to trade through share-
swap transactions in the Middle East’s largest exchange by
market value. The United Arab Emirates restricts non-Gulf
Cooperation Council investors from owning more than 49 percent
of listed companies. The six-member GCC is made up of the Saudi
Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Bahrain and the U.A.E.  ‘Potential’  “I can see some potential for a product that offers
investibility to foreign investors,”  Bryce Fegley , chief
investment officer of Saturna Sdn., the Malaysian unit of
Saturna Capital LLC, the biggest Shariah-compliant equity fund
in the U.S., wrote in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. “I wonder whether there would be sufficient
diversification in such an ETF to make it attractive.”  The  NBAD OneShare Dow Jones U.A.E. 25 ETF , which combines
the 25 most traded stocks in the country, fell 6.6 percent since
it started trading on March 26. Falcom Saudi Equity ETF declined
4.3 percent since its first trading day on March 28.  “I don’t think the appetite is there for ETFs or equities
in general from within the region,”  John Sfakianakis , chief
economist at Riyadh-based Banque Saudi Fransi, said in a
telephone interview on Oct. 5. The markets are “still in the
process of deleveraging and recovering from a difficult and
challenging two years,” he said.  Gambling  The deepest global financial crisis since the 1930s roiled
regional markets, tightened bank lending and sent property
prices tumbling. The  Dubai Financial Market General Index 
slumped 49 percent in two years, prompting some brokerages to
submit requests to suspend operations. The  Kuwait SE Price Index 
plunged 40 percent in the period and Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All
Share Index declined 4.6 percent.  Global sales of Islamic debt declined 16 percent to $11.8
billion so far this year from $14 billion a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shariah forbids gambling, payment of interest and alcohol,
so fund managers have to select investments deemed halal, or
permissible. Companies and products are screened by a board of
scholars to ensure they don’t violate religious principles.  The spread between the average yield for global sukuk and
the London interbank offered rate fell 128 basis points, or 1.28
percentage point, to 339 this year, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . Shariah-compliant bonds returned 13
percent in the period. Debt in developing markets gained 15
percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index 
shows.  ‘Quality Investment’  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s dollar
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in
June 2015 has narrowed 29 basis points to 343 this month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Dubai’s
6.396 percent sukuk maturing in November 2014 gained 2 basis
points to 5.943 percent yesterday, the data show.  HSBC is seeking investment from wealthy individuals and
institutions for the ETFs, said Fakih. “Wealth generation in
the GCC has been significant over the past few years, and there
is significant surplus funds looking for quality investment
opportunity.”  -- With assistance from  Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur.
Editors:  Claudia Maedler ,  Riad Hamade .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net  or
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  