-- School Bus Drivers to Ferry Commonwealth Games Athletes; Track Passed Fit
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-10-06T10:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/school-bus-drivers-to-ferry-delhi-s-athletes-running-track-passes-muster.html
Delhi  Commonwealth Games  organizers
recruited school bus drivers to replace those who refused to
work over long hours, while last-minute repairs to the athletics
track passed inspection hours before the first races.  In the latest setback to an event damaged by a series of
blunders in the buildup, about 800 drivers hired to ferry
athletes and officials between the city’s sports venues and the
 competitors’ village  in buses and a fleet of special cars quit
after complaining of exhausting days and poor accommodation,
prompting managers to scour schools for replacements.  “We’ve been promised more drivers for the transport
system,”  Michael Fennell , Commonwealth Games Federation
president, said at today’s press conference for the Oct. 3-14
event in the Indian capital. “Athletes are complaining about
getting into competitions.”  Jiji Thomson, special director general of the Delhi
organizing committee, said already more than 400 drivers have
been signed up and more would follow.  The run-up to the games was marred by missed construction
deadlines, the collapse of a stadium footbridge and complaints
of uninhabitable accommodation for athletes. Authorities in the
last two weeks accelerated work to complete facilities, clean
dirty toilets and finish roads in the city of 14 million as some
competing nations delayed the departure of their teams.  Up to 1,000 people worked overnight in the  Jawaharlal Nehru
Stadium , home to the track and field events starting from 5:30
p.m. local time today, to relay turf and repair the running
track following the weekend opening ceremony.  “There was some damage to the athletics track and the
infield was in a very poor condition,” Fennell said. “Workers
responded to it overnight.”  Ticket Woes  A day after expressing concern over the lack of spectators
at most events, Fennell said the bad publicity leading up to the
competition that features athletes from  71 countries and
territories , most of them former British colonies, might have
turned some people off attending.  While television coverage appeared to show no substantial
improvement in attendance, organizing committee chairman Suresh
Kalmadi said Indian success would help fill stands.  “Now with India winning more gold medals, interest level
is going up,” he said at today’s press conference. More than
50,000 tickets were sold yesterday, he said. India has won  seven
gold medals  so far, second only to Australia.  “The boxing and wrestling stadiums were packed
yesterday,” said Kalmadi, who was jeered by a section of the
crowd at the opening ceremony after a series of embarrassing
management failures during the buildup.  The athletes’ village, which was slammed as “unlivable”
before the start of games, today drew praise from Fennell. The
facilities are the “best I have seen at any village at any
games I have been to so far,” Fennell said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  