-- Sensitive Index Approaches Record High; Jaiprakash, Hindalco Lead Advance
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-10-06T11:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/sensitive-index-approaches-record-high-jaiprakash-larsen-lead-advance.html
India’s stocks rose, with the
benchmark index approaching a record high, as foreign investors
bought more shares than they sold for a 24th straight day amid
optimism the nation’s growth will boost corporate earnings.  Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. , a builder of dams, roads and
bridges, surged the most in 11 months.  Hindalco Industries Ltd. ,
the biggest aluminum producer, advanced to its highest in more
than four years. India is considering a proposal to ease rules
for companies borrowing abroad to fund infrastructure projects,
the Economic Times reported, without saying where it got the
information.  India stocks  aren’t in “bubble” territory even
with the main stock gauge close to an all-time high, according
to BNP Paribas.  “The flows continue to be strong,” said  D.K. Aggarwal ,
who manages about $100 million as chairman of SMC Wealth
Management Services Ltd. in New Delhi. “Money is chasing
growth.” Aggarwal is buying shares of  Reliance Industries Ltd. ,
the most valuable company, and  Bharti Airtel Ltd. , the largest
mobile-phone operator, among others.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex ,
gained 135.37, or 0.7 percent, to 20,543.08. The measure has
gained 28 percent from a May 25 low, approaching its record
close of 20,873.33 on Jan. 8, 2008, and is the best performer
this year among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets. The gauge
climbed 12 percent last month, the most since May 2009. The
nation’s largest companies begin reporting earnings for the last
quarter from mid month.  Project Financing  The S&P CNX  Nifty  Index on the National Stock Exchange rose
0.7 percent to 6,186.45. The  BSE 200 Index  increased 0.8 percent
to 2,612.13.  Jaiprakash Associates soared 6.7 percent to 137.85 rupees,
its biggest advance since Nov. 4. Hindalco climbed 3.6 percent
to 210.45 rupees, its highest since May 12, 2006. Reliance
Industries Ltd. increased 2.1 percent to 1,044.95 rupees.  India’s Department of Economic Affairs, a part of the
nation’s finance ministry, is seeking to allow Indian borrowers
to raise as much as $1 billion annually overseas to finance
projects, according to the Economic Times. The department has
also proposed tax concessions on long-term foreign-currency
borrowings for infrastructure projects, the newspaper reported,
without giving details. A Finance Ministry official didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment on the report.  ‘Uneven’ Rally  The Sensex is valued at 18 times the estimated earnings
over a one-year period, compared with a multiple of 25 times at
its previous peak, BNP analysts led by  Manishi Raychaudhuri 
wrote in a report today. Unlike a typical “bubble” where most
industries and stocks climb by similar degrees, the rally this
time has been “extremely uneven,” the analysts said.  “In absolute terms, Sensex is back at the peak -- though
not in terms of valuations,” the analysts said. “Some tactical
buying and selling opportunities have arisen as a consequence of
such divergence in stock performance relative to the index.”  Foreign fund inflows to India’s equities have increased
about 59 percent this year as the nation’s economic growth
attracted investors.  Gross domestic product  expanded 8.8 percent
in the three months through June from a year earlier, the most
among major economies after China and Brazil.  Sesa Goa Ltd. , the nation’s biggest iron ore exporter, and
 Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. , controlled by billionaire Anil
Ambani, are among stocks that have lagged behind and offer
“tactical upside possibilities,” the BNP Paribas analysts
said. Sesa Goa added 1.4 percent to 367.1 rupees.  Overseas  funds  bought a net  19.2 billion rupees  ($432.5
million) of Indian equities on Oct. 4, extending this year’s
record inflows to 930 billion rupees, according to the nation’s
market regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  