-- Skadden Adds Lawyers in Asia as Disputes, Regulatory Inquiries Increase
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2010-10-06T10:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/skadden-adds-lawyers-in-asia-as-disputes-regulatory-inquiries-increase.html
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP , the top-ranked legal adviser on mergers and acquisitions,
said it is moving two lawyers to Hong Kong to deal with an
increase in cross-border disputes and regulatory probes.  Frances Kao , a partner, has moved from Chicago and Kam
Nijar, an associate, will move from London, bringing the New
York-based law firm’s Asian litigation and arbitration practice
to five lawyers, according to  Paul Mitchard , who set up the team
last year.  A new U.S. law giving financial incentives to people who
reveal securities violations, or whistleblowers, may result in
more investigations involving Asian companies, said Kao, who has
advised U.S.-listed Chinese companies in securities and product-
liability lawsuits.  The U.K.’s  Bribery Act , which comes into effect in April,
will subject Asian companies doing business in the U.K. to the
country’s anti-corruption rules, said Mitchard.  Associate Calvin Chan will relocate from Hong Kong to be
Skadden’s first disputes lawyers based in Singapore.  “Singapore is making a big push to rival Hong Kong as the
leading center for Asian arbitration,” Mitchard said. The city
state will draw disputes from India and Indonesia to be
arbitrated there, Mitchard said.  Other American law firms building disputes teams in Asia
include Los Angeles-based  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP  and Kobre &
Kim LLP.  The U.S. Department of Justice took 34 enforcement actions
related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in 2009, compared
with three actions in 2004, according to data found on the
department’s  website .  Skadden was the world’s top legal adviser for mergers and
acquisitions announced this year, Bloomberg data shows, acting
on deals including BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion bid for
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. and Intel Corp.’s $7.68
billion acquisition of McAfee Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  