-- Slovak Government Raises Funds Cheaper Than Spain in 15-Year Bond Sale
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k ,   S o n j a   C h e u n g   a n d   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2010-10-06T15:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/slovak-government-is-set-to-raise-funds-cheaper-than-spain-in-bond-sale.html
Slovak funding costs are set to drop
below Spain, a fellow euro-region member with higher credit
ratings, in a sale of 15-year bonds as the central European
country’s fiscal austerity pledge boosts demand for its debt.  Slovakia raised 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) from notes
due in 2025 today that were priced to yield 150 basis points
more than the benchmark mid-swap rate, or 4.373 percent, Finance
Minister Ivan Miklos said in Bratislava. Same-maturity Spanish
debt traded with a spread of 166 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. Demand was 4.3 billion euros,
Miklos said.  “Within the eurozone context, Slovakia’s fiscal position
looks good even though the budget deficit has come in higher
than expected,”  Simon Quijano-Evans , head of emerging-markets
strategy at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA, said by phone from
Vienna. “Demand should be solid for anything that is offering a
decent spread for a relatively sound fiscal story.”  The government, in power since July, has promised to cut
its budget deficit to 4.9 percent of economic output next year
from an expected 7.8 percent in 2010. Slovak bonds have rallied
on the austerity plan, pushing the yield on a 2020 note down to
3.715 percent today from a 4.015 percent high on Jul. 23.  Lead Arrangers  HSBC, Societe Generale CIB, RZB Group’s Tatra Banka and the
local unit of UniCredit Bank were the lead arrangers of the
sale. The country wants to reopen the issue through domestic
auctions later. Slovakia is rated A1 at Moody’s Investors
Service, three levels below Spain’s Aa1.  The Slovak deficit widened to 8 percent of output last year
after the export-oriented economy  slumped  into its first-ever
recession. The government projects the gross domestic product to
expand 4 percent this year after shrinking 4.7 percent in 2009.  Central and east European governments revived sales of
international bonds last month as lower debt levels than in
developed nations and an outlook for faster economic growth
boosted investor demand for emerging-market debt. Czech and
Polish borrowing costs fell below higher-rated Italy and Spain.  Public debt will reach 85 percent of economic output in the
euro area this year and could be 118 percent in Italy, compared
with 54 percent in Poland, 41 percent in Slovakia and 40 percent
in the Czech Republic, European Commission estimates show.  A Czech sale of 2 billion euros in international notes last
month drew bids of 5.3 billion euros and yields on local debt
fell to record lows after the country pledged to halve its
fiscal deficit in three years. Poland, the only EU economy to
avoid recession last year, has scaled back debt sales in the
fourth quarter as record demand from foreign investors helped
cover 88 percent of its 2010 funding needs through September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
 Sonja Cheung  in London at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Hyde  at   chyde3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net .
Paul Armstrong at   Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  