-- South Korea Plans to Lend $10 Billion for U.A.E. Nuclear Plants
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2010-10-07T06:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/south-korea-plans-to-lend-a-total-of-10-billion-for-u-a-e-nuclear-plants.html
South Korea expects to lend about $10
billion for the United Arab Emirates’ first nuclear plants, more
than doubling pledges it has already made this year to finance
construction projects in the Middle East.  The  Export-Import Bank of Korea  expects to lend most of the
money that  Korea Electric Power Corp.  and contractors will need
to borrow to build four 1,400-megawatt atomic power stations in
the U.A.E., said the bank’s chief representative in Dubai.  The state-owned bank, known also as Kexim, provides credit
for Korean companies overseas and has already committed this
year to lend $9.4 billion for energy projects and other
infrastructure work in the Middle East. Loans for the
construction in Saudi Arabia of the Yanbu oil refinery and two
power plants may be among its next big deals.  “The U.A.E. nuclear project will be the bank’s first for
such a huge amount,” Heung-Sik Min said in a Sept. 30
interview. “Once they have chosen the financial advisers, they
can outline the financing.” Korea Electric has so far selected
one adviser,  Credit Suisse Group AG .  South Korea is Asia’s fourth-largest oil importer, and a
doubling of credit commitments by the government would mirror
the push Korean construction companies have been making in the
energy-rich Middle East. Korean builders may win record overseas
orders this year of more than $60 billion, thanks largely to a
growing demand in the region for power plants and refineries,
South Korea’s Ministry of Knowledge Economy said on Oct. 3.  Doubling of Deals  Korean companies signed $50.7 billion in international
contracts during the first nine months of this year, more than
twice the value of deals done in the same period of 2009, the
ministry said. Of this year’s total, 72 percent has come from
the Middle East.  Korean builders have adopted “a strategy to go
international because there is lots of competition
domestically,” said  Kwang-Soo Lee , an equities analyst at
Hanwha Securities in Seoul.  Middle Eastern projects account for more than 20 percent of
Kexim’s outstanding loans, up from 18 percent in each of the
past two years. The bank is now preparing financing for at least
nine additional projects in the U.A.E., Saudi Arabia and the
Arabian Peninsula country of Oman. Among them is the 400,000
barrel-a-day Yanbu refinery, for which  Daelim Industrial Co . and
SK Engineering & Construction Co. secured contracts this year.  Beating GE, Areva  Korea Electric, the country’s biggest electricity provider,
beat General Electric Co. and  Areva SA  of France for rights to
build the U.A.E.’s first nuclear reactors. The plants, scheduled
for construction in the emirate of Abu Dhabi between 2017 and
2020, are budgeted to cost $18.6 billion.  The power company is in the final stage of talks with
Turkey for the construction of a nuclear power station, Chief
Executive Officer  Kim Ssang Su  told lawmakers today in Seoul. It
is also seeking to build plants in India and Malaysia, and is
seeking to win an order for a 314-megawatt gas-fired power plant
in the U.A.E., it said in a report to lawmakers.  The U.A.E.’s nuclear ambitions are part of a broader trend
in the Persian Gulf, where several governments are looking for
ways to satisfy a soaring demand for electricity. Kuwait plans
to build four reactors by 2022, and Saudi Arabia is planning its
first nuclear and renewable energy city. Iran opened its first
nuclear plant in August and expects it to begin generating power
in December.  International Project  The U.A.E. deal is Korea Electric’s first international
nuclear project. The company has sub-contracted the work to
Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co.,  Samsung C&T Corp. , and
Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co.  Areva Chief Executive Anne Lauvergeon said in January that
her company lost the nuclear bid because Abu Dhabi chose a
cheaper solution with reduced safety standards.  Korean Electric’s Kim said in a statement after winning the
order that the reactors to be delivered to the U.A.E. are the
“world’s safest, most reliable and cost-efficient nuclear power
plants.” Emirates  Nuclear Energy Corp.  Chief Executive Officer
Mohammed al-Hammadi said in the same statement that the team was
picked in part for its “world-class safety performance.”  The main challenge for Korea Electric may be its lack of a
track record for building nuclear plants outside its homeland.  ‘Small Margin’  Korea Electric and others have “a high level of technology
and are very competitive, but they don’t have much experience
abroad,” said In-Kyu Cho, deputy director at Kexim’s Dubai
office. The nuclear contract gives Korean exporters only a
“small margin, but there will be many more opportunities in the
future if they do a successful job in the U.A.E.,” he said.  The U.A.E. is also tendering several railway projects this
year, including a mass-transit metro system for Abu Dhabi.
Hyundai Rotem Co., the railroad unit of South Korea’s biggest
automaker  Hyundai Motor Co. , is evaluating the metro project and
awaiting bid details, a Hyundai Rotem spokesman said on Oct. 4.  “This is the period of Korean contractors,” said  Wayne Lee , an analyst at Woori Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.
“If you look at the history of engineering and construction
contractors, the U.S. and Europe dominated 20 years ago, then
Japan followed, but from 2000 the Koreans have caught up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  