-- Spanish Industrial Production Increases in August After July's Contraction
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-10-06T07:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/spanish-industrial-production-increases-in-august-after-july-s-contraction.html
Spanish industrial production
increased in August after an unexpected decline the prior month,
signaling the economic recovery lost momentum in the third
quarter.  Output  at factories, refineries and mines increased 1.4
percent from a year earlier, adjusted for the number of working
days, after falling a revised 0.1 percent in July, the  National
Statistics Institute  in Madrid said today in a statement.
Economists had expected a 0.2 percent increase, the median of
seven forecasts in a Bloomberg  survey  showed, while the
institute initially reported a 0.5 percent expansion in July.
Output in August increased at the slowest pace of the five
months this year when production increased.  Spain’s economy crawled out of an almost two-year  recession 
in the first half after stimulus measures bolstered demand and
an increase in sales tax in July encouraged consumers to bring
forward purchases. As the  government  implements the deepest
austerity measures in three decades, gross domestic product
showed a “clear weakening” from July through September, Bank
of Spain Governor  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  said yesterday.  “The risks of GDP turning slightly negative in quarterly
terms in the third quarter are quite high,” said Estefania
Ponte, Madrid-based head of research at Cortal Consors, a
brokerage unit of BNP Paribas SA.  Budget Battle  Vehicle production fell 5.5 percent from a year earlier in
August, without accounting for the number of days worked,
compared with an average increase of 19 percent for the first
eight months of the year, today’s report showed. In adjusted
terms, production of consumer-durables rose 3.4 percent and
capital goods declined 9.9 percent.  Spain is battling to slash the third-largest budget  deficit 
in the euro region without strangling the recovery. Prime
Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero , facing a decline in
popular support and opposition from unions, has cut public
workers’ wages, increased value-added tax, and frozen pensions
for next year in a bid to stem a surge in  borrowing costs .  The opposition People’s Party extended its lead over
Zapatero’s Socialists to 14.5 percentage points, according to a
poll published by El Pais newspaper on Oct. 3, four days after
unions staged the first general strike in eight years and the
first such walkout against their former ally Zapatero.  Deficit Narrows  The austerity measures are starting to take effect as the
central government’s deficit narrowed by almost half in the
first eight months of the year. The  extra yield  investors demand
to hold Spanish debt rather than German equivalents was 179.4
basis points today, compared with 177.9 yesterday and a euro-era
high of 221 basis points on June 16.  Still, the recovery may be undermined by the austerity
drive and the end of stimulus measures adopted amid the worst
recession in six decades. New car registrations, a proxy for
sales, fell 26.9 percent in September from a year earlier after
declining an annual 23.8 percent in August, according to
vehicle-makers’ group Anfac. State incentives to buy cars ended
in the third quarter, Industry Ministry data show.  “There’s a very strong chance it will fall back into
proper recession,”  Ben May , an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in London said. “The fundamentals still look pretty
weak.”  Full-Year Contraction  While the government sees full-year gross domestic product
declining 0.3 percent, Ordonez said that it’s too early to tell
whether the economy resumed shrinking in the third quarter. He
said the government’s 1.3 percent growth forecast for 2011 is
“optimistic” compared with consensus estimates. Funcas, the
savings bank foundation, sees a return to recession in the
second half.  Spain’s service industry contracted the most since February
in September, according to a survey of purchasing managers by
Markit. Registered unemployment rose for the second month, and
Spain’s  unemployment  rate, at 20.5 percent in August, remains
the highest in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  