-- Pre-Spitzer Research Model Wasn't Flawed, Soleil's Farrell Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-06T16:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/spitzer-slammed-equity-research-model-not-flawed-farrell-says-tom-keene.html
The equity-research business that
former New York Attorney General and Governor  Eliot Spitzer 
gained notoriety by attacking wasn’t flawed, according to  Vince Farrell Jr. , chief investment officer at Soleil Securities Corp.  “What you had was just an aberration, in my mind, of
people who got carried away in  a bubble ,” Farrell said in a
radio interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “ There was nothing wrong with the model of how they
followed stocks.”  While the model itself worked, “the example of fellows
hyping stocks that they were privately disparaging, to me it was
criminal activity,” New York-based Farrell said. In that
“bubble” for Internet stocks the model was used for “hyping
the corporate finance activity” of firms trying to underwrite
equity offerings for technology companies, he said.  In 2001 an investigation led by then-New York Attorney
General Spitzer targeted analysts such as  Henry Blodget , then a
Merrill Lynch & Co. employee, whose forecasts for rapid price
gains for technology companies fueled demand for Internet
shares. Blodget recommended companies such as InfoSpace Inc.
while privately saying it was a “piece of junk.” By the end of
2002 the stock had lost 93 percent of its value from its peak in
2000.  Blodget is chief executive officer and editor of Business
Insider, an Internet publication.  Hold Equals Sell  People who use equity analysis still need to understand the
approach of the forecasters whose reports they read, Farrell
said.  “You have to learn to read each individual analyst,”
Farrell said. “A hold looks like neutral; typically it’s a
sell.”  An equity analyst who makes the right call 30 percent of
the time is succeeding, Farrell said.  “If an analyst can be right 30 percent of the time on the
stock picks, those picks are going to far outperform those that
don’t do as well,” Farrell said. “You’re not going to zero on
those that don’t do well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  