-- Stanford Volleyball Player Helps Pioneer `Bo Jackson' Hip Disease Research
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-10-06T04:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/stanford-volleyball-player-helps-pioneer-bo-jackson-hip-disease-research.html
Jake Vandermeer  isn’t your average
Stanford University volleyball player. The 20-year-old has
helped come up with a potential cure for a crippling disease
that affects about 1,200 children a year.  In March, Vandermeer presented a paper to the  Orthopaedic
Research Society , one of the few undergraduates ever to address
the body. The 6-foot-5 junior at the Palo Alto, California-based
university said the study found that, by combining the
osteoporosis drug ibandronate with a naturally occurring protein
that enhances bone growth, the effects of  Legg-Calve-Perthes 
could be reversed.  The juvenile form of the disease that ended  Bo Jackson ’s
professional football and baseball careers causes arthritis in
people as young as 20 and often means hip replacement by 50.  “To see kids that had been in a clinic that morning and
think that I was a part of something that could potentially make
all their surgeries and physical therapy a historical relic,
that is an incredible feeling,” Vandermeer said in a telephone
interview.  The study found that, in about six to eight weeks, the
treatment could reverse the flattening of the thigh bone near
the hip socket caused by the disease. Vandermeer was working for
 Harry Kim , director of the Sarah M. and Charles E. Seay Center
for Musculoskeletal Research at  Texas Scottish Rite Hospital for
Children  and director of the Center for Excellence in Hip
Disorders in Dallas.  Cowboys’ Connection  Kim, 46, came up with the idea for the study and had been
doing research for 10 years. Vandermeer began working with him
after high school when his father, Robert, an orthopedic surgeon
and the Dallas Cowboys’ team doctor from 1987 to 1999, helped
him land the research position. The full report was submitted to
the  Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery  in July.  “He’s very focused for his age,” Kim said in an
interview. “A hard worker, a fast learner. He’s confident, but
not overly so. It’s a big deal in terms of what he contributed
to the work.”  Kim also said the study had side effects that have to be
resolved, and that the procedure then has to be adapted for
people. A clinical trial would follow.  Jackson, 47, was a two-sport all-star when his career was
cut short by a version of the disease.  Jackson’s Hip  After winning the Heisman Trophy as college football’s best
player in 1985, Jackson played in the National Football League
and Major League Baseball. A hip injury in 1991 revealed he had
avascular necrosis, leading to the deterioration of the
cartilage and bone around his left hip joint, and had a hip
replacement that year. He made a brief comeback, before retiring
in 1995.  A voicemail left for Jackson’s business manager, Becky
Daniel, wasn’t immediately returned.  Vandermeer is getting used to success. He graduated as
valedictorian from  St. Mark’s School  in Dallas with a 4.47
grade-point average and a perfect 1,600 on the college boards.
He also was captain of the volleyball, tennis and junior
engineering teams, and president of the Hydrogen Fuel Cell Club.  He was principal cellist of the Dallas Youth Orchestra and
had his prize-winning composition, “Farewell for Piano and
String Orchestra,” performed by the  Dallas Symphony Orchestra .  Vandermeer kept up his passion for volleyball by playing on
the Stanford club team in his freshman year. Two Cardinal
assistant coaches recommended him to volleyball coach  John
Kosty , who gave the then-sophomore a tryout.  Kosty said out of reviews of 40 to 50 high school players
each year, only between two and four get a spot on the team.  Vandermeer made the 20-man roster last season and played in
five matches, though he was left off the 14-man travel squad
because he lacked experience. The season starts Jan. 5.  ‘Rare’ Walk-On  “He walked on to a really talented team and proved he
could play with them,” said Kosty, who led Stanford to the  2010
national title  last season and was voted National Coach of the
Year. “It’s so rare.”  Vandermeer, a chemical-engineering major with a 4.16 grade
point average, is no longer certain he wants to pursue medical
research and finds alternative energy intriguing.  He said his experience playing volleyball at Stanford has
taught him valuable lessons.  “I help my classmates with the assignments and answer a
lot of the questions,” he says. “But in volleyball, it’s me
who is being challenged and who is receiving their help a lot of
the time. And these guys are so gracious and so willing to work
with me to help me grow and become better.”  “Volleyball has meant a lot to me,” he said. “It’s
taught me many things. The big one is humility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  