-- States Should Cut Budgets, Not Borrow, to Balance Budgets, Pew Poll Finds
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/states-should-cut-budgets-not-borrow-to-balance-budgets-pew-poll-finds.html
Lawmakers should cut spending or
raise taxes before borrowing to balance budgets, according to a
poll of residents in five states that account for almost half of
the nation’s projected deficits.  More than two-thirds of respondents in  Arizona ,  California ,
 Florida ,  Illinois  and  New York  said that governments should
spend less, according to a  report  released today by the  Pew
Center on the States  and the Public Policy Institute of
California.  The states polled make up one-third of the U.S. population
and 45 percent of projected state budget gaps, according to the
report. Spurred by drops in revenue during the recession and
increased need for services, borrowing by state and local
governments grew at an average annual rate of 85 percent from
2000 to 2007, according to the report.  “Borrowing for long-term projects is important to state
governments in the same sense borrowing is important to
individuals with home ownership or education,” said  Mark Baldassare , chief executive officer of the  Public Policy
Institute of California , in a conference call yesterday. “Debt
becomes problematic when you have a large portion of current
expenditures covered by borrowing.”  Tipping Point  In 2009, outstanding debt for U.S. municipalities totaled
more than $2.3 trillion, doubling since 2000. The five states
polled had $919.5 billion in debt in 2008, with California
responsible for 37 percent.  “At a certain point borrowing becomes an unrealistic
option,” said  Susan Urahn , managing director at the Pew Center
on the States.  Illinois doubled its debt in a decade, hitting $124 billion
in 2008. In fiscal 2009, it borrowed $9.4 billion, more than
three times the year before, according to the report.  Illinois, which has the largest projected 2011 budget gap
of the five polled states at $15 billion, is on Standard &
Poor’s negative watch list, meaning its rating could be
downgraded soon. Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Illinois
debt in July 2009, leaving it in the bottom two states along
with California. The negative outlooks make borrowing more
expensive, according to the report.  The Washington-based Pew Center on the States and San
Francisco-based Public Policy Institute of California used
random digit dialing to speak with more than 1,000 residents.
The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage
points, Baldassare said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 