-- Steve McClaren `In the Frame' for England Coaching Return: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-10-06T10:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/steve-mcclaren-in-the-frame-for-england-coaching-return-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  McClaren Contender  Former England manager  Steve McClaren  is a possible
contender to succeed  Fabio Capello  as national team coach after
rebuilding his reputation with FC Twente in the Netherlands and
Germany’s Wolfsburg,  the Independent  reported.  McClaren, who left the job in 2007 after England failed to
qualify for Euro 2008, “will be in the frame” if he continues
to be successful on the continent, the Independent cited  Trevor Brooking , the Football Association’s director of football
development, as saying.  Kakuta’s ‘Hardball’  Chelsea may lose Gael Kakuta without any financial
compensation as Bayern Munich prepares to offer the French
teenager a pre-contract agreement from Jan. 1, the Daily Mirror
 reported .  Kakuta is out of contract at the end of the season and his
representatives are playing “hardball,” the Mirror said,
paving the way for Bayern to sign him on a free transfer.  Neymar in 2011  Brazilian teenager Neymar said he’d like to join Chelsea
next year,  the Sun  reported.  The London club had a 25 million-pound ($39.8 million) bid
for the 18-year-old rejected in the offseason by Brazil’s Santos,
the Sun said.  Neymar said he’ll be “much better prepared” to move to
the Premier League next season, according to the Sun.  Liverpool Exit  Juventus plans to sign Liverpool’s  Alberto Aquilani  for a
“cut price” 10 million pounds in the January transfer window,
the  Daily Mail  reported.  The Italian midfielder, who joined Liverpool for 18 million
pounds last year, is on a season-long loan at the Turin team,
the Mail said.  Juventus plans to capitalize on Liverpool’s financial
problems to seal the deal, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  