-- Stiglitz Says Fed Rate Policy May Cause Asset Bubbles
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-10-06T15:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/stiglitz-says-fed-s-rates-causing-liquidity-flood-currency-misalignment.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said the Federal Reserve’s policy of cutting interest
rates to a record low has had repercussions worldwide, including
currency misalignments and the risk of asset price bubbles.  “Fed policy was supposed to reignite the American
economy, but it’s not doing that,” Stiglitz, a professor at
Columbia University in New York since 2001, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “The flood of liquidity is going
abroad and causing problems all over the world.”  Japan sold the yen last month for the first time in six
years to spur exports and economic growth, joining countries
across Asia and Latin America that have sought to temper gains
in their currencies against the dollar. Tensions over exchange
rate policies prompted Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
to warn Sept. 27 of a “currency war.”  “The worry is that the flood of liquidity is going to
cause what is sometimes being referred to as an emerging-market
bubble,” Stiglitz said. “Money is going in, and the worry is
it will cause a real estate bubble in one developing country or
another.”  The dollar fell to a 15-year low against the yen today
after a private report showed U.S. companies unexpectedly cut
jobs last month, fueling speculation the Fed will buy assets to
spur a slowing economy.  The dollar declined 0.4 percent to 82.90 yen at 10:07 a.m.
in New York, from 83.22 yesterday. It touched 82.77, the weakest
level since May 1995 and less than the low of 82.88 on Sept. 15,
when Japan sold yen to weaken its value.  Trade Deficit  China’s currency, the yuan, “is misaligned and there needs
to be an adjustment,” Stiglitz said. “But we should understand
that that will not solve the problem of America’s trade
deficit.”  An expansion of the Fed’s balance sheet, now under
consideration by central bank policy makers, would provide only
slight stimulus to the U.S. economy, Stiglitz said.  Such a move “might help a little bit in the U.S., causing
a lot of problems around the world and not actually addressing
the fundamental problems here at home,” he said.  The Fed cut its  benchmark interest rate  almost to zero at
the height of the financial crisis in December 2008 and turned
to asset purchases to bring down long-term borrowing costs.  The central bank eventually bought $1.7 trillion of
mortgage-backed securities, agency debt and Treasuries. The
purchases ended in March, and the Fed began to lay plans to exit
from its unprecedented intervention.  Reinvesting Proceeds  In August, the central bank announced it would keep its
securities holdings unchanged at $2.05 trillion by reinvesting
proceeds from mortgage debt into Treasuries, putting the exit on
hold.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4 that restarting
large-scale asset purchases would probably spur growth, after
saying last week that the central bank has a duty to aid the
economy as U.S. unemployment holds near 10 percent.  “What really is needed is effective stimulus,” Stiglitz
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  