-- Treasuries, Yen Rise on Fed Speculation; Most U.S. Stocks Fall
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-06T20:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/stocks-u-s-futures-rise-on-speculation-central-banks-to-boost-economies.html
Treasuries surged, sending five-year
yields to a record low, while the yen reached a 15-year high
versus the dollar as a report showing a drop in private U.S.
payrolls fueled speculation the Federal Reserve will buy more
bonds to bolster the recovery. Most U.S. stocks retreated.  The five-year Treasury note’s yield slid to as low as 1.12
percent as of 4 p.m. in New York. The yen strengthened as much
as 0.5 percent to 82.77 per dollar. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  slipped 0.1 percent to 1,159.97 a day after surging to its
highest close since May. About four stocks fell for every three
that rose on U.S. exchanges. Gold and tin climbed to records
while copper reached a 27-month high.  The unexpected 39,000 drop in private payrolls reported by
ADP Employer Services undermined confidence in the economic
recovery after a report yesterday showed service industries grew
more than forecast, triggering a rally in stocks. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said the U.S. economy likely will be “fairly bad”
or “very bad” over the next six to nine months and the
International Monetary Fund cut its global growth forecast.  “The ADP number is a short-term reminder that all is not
well in the real economy,” said  Liam Dalton , president of Axiom
Capital Management Inc. in New York, which oversees $1.4
billion.  The  S&P 500  surged 2.1 percent yesterday after the
Institute for Supply Management said U.S. service industries
expanded more than forecast and speculation grew that the
Federal Reserve will join Japan’s efforts to stoke economic
growth.  Technology Shares Drag  Technology companies were the biggest drag on the index
today, with  Citrix Systems Inc.  tumbling 14 percent. Equinix
Inc. plunged 33 percent after the operator of Internet data
centers said third-quarter sales were no more than $330 million,
trailing analysts’ estimates.  General Electric Co.  led the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  to a gain after agreeing to buy
oilfield-equipment maker Dresser Inc. for $3 billion.  The ADP report came two days before the Labor Department’s
monthly payrolls data, which is forecast to show companies added
75,000 jobs in September. The median estimate of 37 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for the ADP report to show a
gain of 20,000 jobs.  Alcoa Inc.  will unofficially start the U.S. earnings season
tomorrow as the first Dow Jones Industrial Average company to
report results. Analysts forecast that S&P 500 earnings
increased 23 percent in the third quarter and will grow 31
percent in the current period.  Treasury Yields  The two-year Treasury yield also decreased to a record low,
falling 2 basis points to 0.3750 percent. The 10-year yield lost
as many as 12 basis points to 2.36 percent, the lowest since
January 2009.  The difference between the yield on 10-year notes and 30-
year bonds reached 1.32 percentage points, the highest level
since Bloomberg began keeping the data in 1992, as investors bet
the Fed would focus its purchases on shorter-term Treasury
securities.  Speculation that the Fed will act to revive the U.S.
economy through quantitative easing is growing after Japan this
week said it would buy as much as $60 billion of assets as part
of stimulus measures.  In the past week, New York Fed Bank President  William Dudley , the Boston Fed’s  Eric Rosengren  and Chicago’s  Charles Evans  have advocated further Fed action to stoke the economy.
Dudley’s Oct. 1 speech was “a strong signal” that the central
bank will restart asset purchases at its next meeting on Nov. 2-
3, according to Goldman Sachs economist  Edward McKelvey .  Fed Purchases  The Fed snapped up $300 billion of Treasuries last year. It
purchased $2.069 billion of Treasuries maturing from March 2013
to June 2013 today as part of a program to reinvest principal
payments on its mortgage holdings into government debt to
prevent money from being drained out of the financial system.
The central bank has bought $44.071 billion of Treasuries since
it began the program on Aug. 17.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.5 percent as three shares
gained for every one that fell. Basic-resources stocks led gains
as copper producer  Antofagasta Plc  surged 3.5 percent and  Anglo
American Plc  jumped 4.2 percent.  Greece’s  ASE Index  rallied 3.3 percent, the most of 18
western European benchmark gauges, as the nation’s banks
advanced.  National Bank  of Greece SA, the biggest Greek lender,
climbed 6.8 percent, a fourth straight gain.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index jumped 1.7 percent to a two-
year high.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed for a sixth day,
reaching the highest level since June 2008, and benchmark equity
gauges in  Turkey  and the  Philippines  jumped to records.
Developing-nation currencies appreciated, sending the  Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index  to the highest level since April
2008. South Korea’s won rose 0.7 percent against the U.S.
currency to a five-month high while the Russian ruble advanced
0.8 percent, its fourth day of gains.  Wall Street economists are reviving a bet that the global
economy will withstand the U.S. slowdown. Just three years since
America began dragging the world into its deepest recession in
seven decades, Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse Holdings USA Inc.
and BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research are forecasting that this
time will be different. Goldman Sachs predicts worldwide growth
will slow 0.2 percentage point to 4.6 percent in 2011, even as
expansion in the U.S. falls to 1.8 percent from 2.6 percent.  Decoupling  Underpinning their analysis is the view that international
reliance on U.S. trade has diminished and is too small to spread
the lingering effects of America’s housing bust.  German two-year  notes  rose, sending the yield down 3 basis
points to 0.77 percent. The government sold 4.12 billion euros
of the 0.75 percent securities due September 2012 at an average
yield of 0.76 percent. Investors bid for 2.2 times the
securities offered, compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 1.7
times at a previous sale on Sept.8. Portugal auctioned 1 billion
euros of three- and 12-month bills, with the securities due in
January drawing an average yield of 1.595 percent.  The unexpected decision by the Japanese central bank
yesterday to drop its interest rate to “virtually zero” and
expand its balance sheet followed the Fed’s move toward more
unconventional easing. Bank of England officials will consider
further stimulus tomorrow, while the central banks of Australia,
Canada and New Zealand are among those now holding fire on
further interest-rate increases.  The S&P GSCI Index  of commodities advanced 0.4 percent to a
two-year high as the weaker U.S. currency pushed up prices of
dollar-denominated materials. The dollar slumped against 12 of
16 major peers and the Dollar Index, which gauges the U.S.
currency against six major trading partners, dropped 0.4 percent
to 77.407, the lowest level since January.  Record Gold  Gold climbed to a record for the 13th session since Sept.
14, climbing as much as 0.8 percent to $1,351 an ounce in New
York. Silver rose to the highest since September 1980,
increasing to as high as $23.17 an ounce. Copper gained 0.7
percent to close at $3.753 a pound and touched $3.7895, the
highest price for a most-active contract since July 2008.  Orange-juice futures plunged the most since July on
expectations for a bigger citrus crop in Florida, the world’s
largest grower after Brazil. Florida’s harvest may jump 13
percent to 150.7 million boxes as groves recover from a freeze
in January, according the average estimate of six analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey. The U.S. Department of Agriculture will
release its first estimate for this season’s crop on Oct. 8.  Orange-juice for November delivery fell 8.05 cents, or 5.1
percent, to settle at $1.5045 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York, the biggest decline since July 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael P. Regan  in New York at 
 Mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 