-- CWCapital Said to Be in Talks to Buy Ackman Group's Stuyvesant Town Debt
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/stuyvesant-town-senior-lenders-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-ackman-s-debt.html
Senior lenders to Stuyvesant Town-
Peter Cooper Village, Manhattan’s biggest apartment complex, are
in talks to buy the junior debt held by a group of investors led
by  Bill Ackman , people with knowledge of the negotiations said.  CWCapital Capital Asset Management LLC, the representative
of holders of the $3 billion mortgage on the property, are
considering a purchase of the $300 million of mezzanine, or
junior, debt owned by Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP and  Winthrop Realty Trust , said the people, who
asked not to be named because the talks are private. The
Pershing venture bought the loans for $45 million and wants to
sell for at least that price, according to one of the people.  Senior lenders, who postponed a foreclosing on the mortgage
this week, don’t need to own the mezzanine debt to take control
of the complex. A deal with Pershing and Winthrop, who were
thwarted by a state court from seizing the 80-acre property in a
foreclosure of their own, may allow CWCapital to preserve the
original $3 billion mortgage rather than extinguishing it in a
property foreclosure auction, according to the people. An
agreement may be reached as soon as today, they said.  “For CW at this point, it’s the path of least resistance
to make an arrangement with Mr. Ackman, relative to all the
other things that it’s exposed to,” said  Daniel Alpert ,
managing partner with Westwood Capital LLC. He is part of a
group that proposed a plan to CWCapital last month for a co-op
conversion of Stuyvesant Town, home to about 25,000 residents.  Mezzanine Foreclosure  Ackman declined to comment, as did Winthrop Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Ashner . Greg Cross, an attorney for CWCapital,
also declined to comment.  By owning the junior debt, CWCapital can conduct a so-
called mezzanine foreclosure rather than foreclosing on the
senior mortgage. In that scenario, it would foreclose on the
ownership interests in the limited liability company that owns
the buildings, said  Joshua Stein , principal of Joshua Stein
PLLC, an independent commercial real estate law practice in New
York that isn’t involved in the case.  The eventual owners may avoid a mortgage recording tax of
2.8 percent if they can amend the existing debt instead of
taking on a new loan, said Stein, author of “Stein on New York
Commercial Mortgage Transactions.”  “The mezzanine foreclosure buyer buys the LLC interests and
nothing happens to the mortgage, it just sits there,” Stein
said. “It’s available to save the mortgage recording tax in a
future refinancing and that’s a good thing.”  Still, there are other ways to circumvent a mortgage tax
that could have been done “a long time ago,” Stein said.  Kicking Up Dust  “They don’t really need him for tax savings,” Stein said
of Ackman’s debt. “The only reason I can think of is he can
kick up enough dust and complexity and threats that they would
like to be rid of him.”  CW also may want to buy the junior debt from Pershing and
Winthrop to prevent any legal threat from the companies or
anyone who might buy their position, said  James E. Schwartz , a
New York-based partner in real estate litigation at Mitchell
Silberberg & Knupp LLP. Ackman’s group filed an appeal after
losing its bid in court to take control of the property itself.  “What they may be trying to do is buy him off, clear any
potential cloud that will hang over them taking clean title at
the foreclosure sale’” Schwartz, who isn’t involved in the
case, said of Ackman.  A clean title means every other lien on the complex has
been extinguished, Schwartz said. With Ackman still appealing
his case in court a few months from now, there is always the
risk that he could win, he said.  “The foreclosing mortgagee is thinking this is probably
going to cause all kinds of trouble,” Schwartz said of
CWCapital. “There’s a very small chance that that could happen,
but if it does, watch out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  