-- Sugar Crushing in India Likely to be Delayed as Farmers Seek Higher Prices
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2010-10-07T09:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/sugar-crushing-in-india-likely-to-be-delayed-as-farmers-seek-higher-prices.html
Sugar makers in India may be forced
to delay output as cane growers seek higher prices, reducing the
prospect that the second-biggest producer will ease export curbs.  Farmers in Uttar Pradesh, the nation’s biggest grower, will
withhold supplies if factories don’t meet their minimum price of
200 rupees ($4.49) per 100 kilograms, Avdhesh Mishra, president
of the Cane Committees’ Association, said. Mills in the northern
state paid an average 285-290 rupees last year, he said.  Delayed production in India may hinder government plans to
end export restrictions, exacerbating global supply concerns and
support a rally in sugar prices. Raw-sugar futures have jumped
85 percent from a 13-month low on May 7, partly on concern that
adverse weather will reduce the Brazilian crop.  “If mills spend 20 rupees as cost of cane to make a kilo
of sugar and sell it at the prevailing price of 26 rupees, they
won’t be able to make profits,” said  Sageraj Bariya , an analyst
at Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai. “We don’t think there is any
factor that will push up prices” as supplies increase, he said.  Raw sugar for delivery in March rose as much as 2.2 percent
to 24.05 cents a pound in after-hours trading on ICE Futures U.S.
Prices touched a 29-year high of 30.4 cents in February, before
tumbling to a 13-month low of 13 cents on May 7.  Brazil will harvest 639 million tons in the year started
May 1, 3.2 percent less than estimated in April, the Sao Paulo
unit of the U.S. Department of Agriculture said Oct. 4. India’s
sugar output may be 26.7 million tons, Bariya said. That’s more
than 25 million tons forecast by Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar . A
decision to end export curbs will be made after the festival of
Diwali next month, Pawar said Sept. 29.  Worst Performers  Bajaj Hindusthan Ltd. , the nation’s top producer, Balrampur
Chini Mills Ltd., the second-biggest, and  Shree Renuka Sugars
Ltd.,  are among the 10  biggest losers  this year on the Bombay
Stock Exchange 200 Index, Bloomberg data show.  Vivek Saraogi , managing director of  Balrampur Chini,  told
analysts in July that he expected cane prices of 175-180 rupees
for the year that started Oct. 1.  “There will be a loss if mills pay 200 rupees per 100
kilograms for cane, compared with the market price of sugar,”
said  Sanjay Tapriya , finance director at  Simbhaoli Sugar Mills
Ltd . “I doubt mills will be able to meet farmers’ demand.”  Mills in Uttar Pradesh pay a so-called state-advised price
set by the provincial government. The rate, aimed at shielding
cane farmers, a powerful voting block, is typically higher than
the minimum rate set by the federal government.  Last year, a price dispute delayed crushing by as much as
four weeks in the northern state. Thousands of growers, holding
cane stems, held demonstrations in November near the parliament,
seeking 280 rupees per 100 kilograms, higher than the benchmark.  “Last year, we realized that we can fix our own price,”
said Cane Committees’ Mishra. “We are confident we will be able
to get it,” he said, referring to the farmers’ price demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  