-- Surprise $2,000 Phone Bills Add to Scrutiny of Verizon, AT&T
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-06T21:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/surprise-2-000-phone-bills-add-to-scrutiny-of-verizon-at-t.html
Liz Szalay said she was shocked when
she saw her 14-year-old son’s phone Verizon Wireless bill. He’d
run up charges of $2,000 over two months for searching for and
downloading songs.  “I would never have allowed my son to accrue such charges,
if I had known,” said Szalay, a secretary in Niles, Michigan,
who said she withdrew money from her 401(k) retirement plan to
cover the expense. “What I did to prevent this from happening
in the future was have his Internet access completely blocked by
Verizon, but not before they made off with a boatload of
money.”  The U.S. Federal Communications Commission may make it
mandatory for carriers to warn customers before they get hit
with high bills. Next week, the agency will consider requiring
companies to alert customers when they approach limits on their
contracts. Carriers including Verizon Wireless have fought
against such requirements, saying they already give customers
ways to monitor their usage.  Verizon, the largest U.S. wireless carrier, is also under
investigation by the FCC for charging 15 million customers
incorrectly for data. The Basking Ridge, New Jersey-based
company said this week that it will refund the charges, incurred
when software inside its phones received or sent signals or
customers were mistakenly charged for Internet access. The cost
to the company will be about $50 million, a person familiar with
the matter said.  FCC spokeswoman  Jen Howard  declined to comment about
further steps in the commission’s investigation.  Marquett Smith ,
a spokesman for Verizon Wireless, declined to comment on the
proposed legislation.  One in Six  The CTIA, the wireless  industry  association, has resisted
the idea of legislation, saying it will cause “customer
confusion and frustration” and that carriers already offer
customers ways to control their usage. Subscribers can check
their usage with online monitors or via text message.  “We have several measures in place that allow our
customers to monitor their usage and protect against overages --
this is a proactive approach on Verizon’s part,” Verizon’s
Smith said in an e-mailed statement.  AT&T Inc. , the second-
largest wireless carrier, and Sprint Nextel Corp., the No. 3,
deferred to the CTIA’s statement on billing practices.  One in six U.S. mobile-phone customers has faced unexpected
monthly fees, according to a survey released in May by the FCC.  Music, Games  Data and talk time beyond a customer’s plan is generally
more expensive.  Verizon  customers can use unlimited amounts of
data on their phones if they sign up for a $30-a-month plan.
Without a plan, the company’s customers pay $1.99 per megabyte
of data so those who surf the Web regularly or download songs
like Szalay’s son can pay substantially more.  Customers who stream music for five minutes a day can use
183 megabytes of data in a month, according to Verizon’s
website, which would cost people without a data plan $364. Five
minutes a day spent downloading games can use 440 megabytes.  Senator  Tom Udall , a New Mexico Democrat, has also
introduced legislation that would require Verizon, Dallas-based
AT&T and other U.S. phone companies to warn customers when they
have used 80 percent of their allotment.  “It’s difficult for the carriers to get up and argue
against greater transparency on bills and notifications,” said
 Christopher King , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore. “It’s becoming an issue on the front burner of
regulators’ minds.”  Reputation  Customer complaints about billing have attracted more
attention to the industry this year, and the carriers are
risking a perception that they’re trying to take advantage of
consumers if they don’t communicate better,  Michael Robinson , a
senior vice president of Levick Strategic Communications, said
in an interview.  “Any time as a company you have the opportunity to touch
your customer, you should take that,” Robinson said in an
interview. “Looking at the opportunity to reach out and touch
your customers is a good thing.”  Verizon Communications Inc. , which co-owns the wireless
company with Vodafone Group Plc, rose 28 cents to $33.36 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. AT&T dropped
32 cents to $28.62.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  