-- Suzlon Plans 800 Megawatts of S.African Wind Projects
-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 2010-10-06T13:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/suzlon-planning-800-megawatts-of-wind-energy-projects-in-south-africa.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. , India’s largest
maker of wind turbines, said it plans to install 800 megawatts
of wind energy plants in South Africa over the next two years as
the country looks to reduce its power shortage.  “South Africa has huge wind potential,” Suzlon Chairman
 Tulsi Tanti  said in an e-mailed statement today. It is “our
intention to play a major role in bringing that to fruition.”  Suzlon, based in Ahmedabad in central India, has opened an
office in Johannesburg to pursue opportunities. “We believe
wind power can help South Africa deliver the power the country
needs, along with energy security required,” Tanti said.  South Africa is battling a power shortage after the
government halted expansion plans by state-owned electricity
utility Eskom Holdings Ltd. for four years until 2004 while it
tried and failed to convince privately owned companies to build
power plants.  Suzlon is the second wind turbine manufacturer to open an
office in South Africa. Denmark’s  Vestas Wind Systems AS , the
world’s largest turbine manufacturer, opened an office in
Johannesburg in June to serve the southern African region.  South Africa, the world’s largest platinum producer, is
looking to new energy sources after a power shortage that forced
a five-day shutdown of most mines in the country in early 2008.  ‘Attractive Destination’  The government is considering a 5,000 megawatt solar energy
park which would be the world’s largest if built, while Eskom is
planning a 100 megawatt solar project at Upington in the
country’s Northern Cape province.  “South Africa has good infrastructure, good wind mapping
resources and a skilled workforce making it an attractive
destination to develop wind energy projects,” Vestas spokesman
Andrew Hilton said on Sept. 30.  Both Vestas and  Suzlon  have said they are bidding for
project licenses in partnership with various developers in South
Africa’s forthcoming renewable energy feed-in tariff program,
designed to encourage the adoption of alternative energy.  Eskom plans to start a tender process in November for the
nation’s first commercial renewable energy projects.  South Africa’s  so-called integrated resources plan calls
for 1,025 megawatts of renewable energy from independent power
producers to be in operation by 2013, of which 400 megawatts
should be wind energy.  The country’s second integrated resource plan is due to be
published before the end of the year and is expected to increase
the amount of new generation capacity allocated to renewable
energy technologies over the next 20 years.  Suzlon has appointed  Silas Zimu  as chief executive officer
of its new South African operations, it said earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lauren van der Westhuizen  in Cape Town at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  