-- Suzuki, Heck, Negishi Share Nobel Chemistry Prize for Palladium Catalysis
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2010-10-06T10:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/suzuki-heck-negishi-share-nobel-chemistry-prize-for-linking-carbon-atoms.html
Two Japanese scientists and an
American researcher won the  Nobel Prize  in Chemistry for making
it easier to recreate carbon-based molecules found in nature
that can be used for medicines.  Richard F. Heck , 79, of the University of Delaware in
Newark, Delaware,  Akira Suzuki , 80, of Hokkaido University in
Sapporo, Japan, and  Ei-Ichi Negishi , 75, of Purdue University in
West Lafayette, Indiana, will share the 10 million-kronor ($1.5
million) award, the  Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences  said at a
press conference in Stockholm today.  They won for finding “more efficient ways of linking
carbon atoms together to build the complex molecules that are
improving our everyday lives,” according to the Nobel
statement. The work, known as palladium-catalyzed cross
coupling, helps develop medicines and “ever more precise
electronics,” according to the statement.  “The metal-based ‘coupling’ reactions pioneered by this
year’s three chemistry Nobel laureates have led to countless
breakthroughs,” said David Phillips, president of the Royal
Society of Chemistry, in an e-mailed statement today. “The
Heck, Negishi and Suzuki reactions make possible the vital
fluorescent marking that underpins DNA sequencing, and are
essential tools for synthetic chemists creating complex new
drugs and polymers.”  Negishi went to bed after midnight last night in Indiana
and was sound asleep when the Nobel call came at 5 a.m. local
time. He moved to the U.S. to attend graduate school at the
University of Pennsylvania in 1960.  ‘Dreaming’ of Prize  “I was dreaming about this prize half a century ago,” he
said by phone to the Nobel news conference. “When I came to
America and when I encountered several Nobel laureates coming to
UPenn in Philadelphia, I realized it’s not a story but it’s a
reality, and it can happen to anyone including myself.”  Negishi said his work is only half over, and he plans to
use the prize money to fulfill his research. “I’m interested in
all organic molecules and synthesizing them in the best possible
way,” he said.  He doesn’t own any patents on the cross-coupling technique.
“In this way I feel more people feel free to make use of what
we come up with,” he said.  Last year’s prize in chemistry went to  Venkatraman Ramakrishnan , of the U.K.;  Thomas A. Steitz , of the United
States; and  Ada E. Yonath , of Israel, for their work on how the
DNA code is translated into life, findings that have been used
to fight infectious disease.  Nobel’s Will  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
 Alfred Nobel , the Swedish inventor of dynamite, who died in
1896. The Nobel Foundation was established in 1900 and the
prizes were first handed out the following year.  Yesterday, Andre Geim and Konstantin Novoselov won the
Nobel Prize in Physics for discovering graphene, a one-atom-
thick “wonder material” that may transform electronics, allowing
for speedier computers and folding touchscreens.  On Oct. 4, Robert G. Edwards, a British physiologist and
pioneer in reproductive medicine, won the Nobel Prize in
Medicine for developing in-vitro fertilization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;
 Allison Connolly  in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 