-- SMI Benchmark Advances; UBS, Swiss Re, Adecco Shares Pace Gains in Zurich
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-10-06T15:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/swiss-stocks-gain-credit-suisse-julius-baer-pace-the-advance.html
Swiss stocks rose in line with
advances worldwide on speculation central banks globally will
work to keep an economic recovery.  Financial firms including  UBS AG  and Swiss Reinsurance Co.
paced gains, while  Adecco SA  rose after analysts advised buying
the shares.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most
actively traded companies increased 0.6 percent to 6,351.01 at
the close in Zurich. The gauge has dropped 8.9 percent from this
year’s high on April 15 as concern re-emerged that a sovereign-
debt crisis in Europe will crimp economic growth and a U.S.
recovery is faltering. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  rose
0.6 percent today.  The Japanese central bank yesterday unexpectedly dropped
its interest rate to “virtually zero.” Bank of England
officials will consider further stimulus tomorrow, while the
central banks of Australia, Canada and New Zealand are among
those now holding fire on further interest-rate increases.
 William Dudley , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, the Boston Fed’s  Eric Rosengren  and Chicago’s  Charles Evans  have all advocated further Fed action.  “The stock markets also seem to be benefiting from the
inflow of liquidity and the prospect that interest rates will
remain low” in the world’s main economies, Valerie Plagnol,
Paris-based strategist at CM-CIC Securities, wrote in a report
today. “The new stimulus measures expected for the credit
market in the U.S. are also having a positive impact.”  Federal Reserve  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4 that
restarting large-scale asset purchases would probably spur
growth, after saying last week that the central bank has a duty
to aid the world’s largest economy as U.S. unemployment holds
near 10 percent.  UBS , the biggest Swiss bank, advanced 1.7 percent to 17.23
francs.  Swiss Re , the world’s second-largest reinsurer, rose 0.9
percent to 43.5 francs.  Adecco, the world’s largest supplier of temporary workers,
rose 4.1 percent to 52.2 francs. Credit Suisse Group AG analysts
today reiterated an “outperform” recommendation on the shares,
saying that cost efficiency and an improved business mix will
allow the company to reach its profit margin targets.  Schweiter Technologies AG  rallied 3.6 percent to 673
francs. The world’s biggest maker of equipment to test light-
emitting diodes was raised to “buy” from “neutral” at Helvea
SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 merritt1@bloomberg.net . 