-- Yemen Gunmen Kill French Worker at OMV Site, Injure U.K. Embassy Employee
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2010-10-06T16:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/u-k-embassy-in-yemeni-capital-says-vehicle-attacked-no-casualties-seen.html
A French contractor died and his
British colleague was injured in Yemen’s capital after a guard
fired on the local office of OMV AG, minutes after a gun attack
on a vehicle carrying  U.K. Embassy  staff members left one hurt.  The contractor who was killed worked for Spie Batignolles
SA, a French construction company, the Foreign Ministry in Paris
said an e-mailed statement without identifying him. The U.K.
contractor for the company was being treated for injuries
sustained in today’s attack in Sana’a, which took place at about
9 a.m. local time, Vienna-based OMV, central Europe’s biggest
oil company, said in an e-mailed statement. OMV said it wasn’t
aware of any political motivation for the guard’s action.  Al-Qaeda’s Yemen branch, which said it was behind a failed
attempt to blow up a U.S. airliner on Dec. 25, has stepped up
violence since June, attacking energy infrastructure and killing
dozens of security personnel in a series of raids in southern
cities. By September, the U.S. had spent $155 million on
equipment to help Yemeni army commandos fight al-Qaeda.  While there was no immediate statement of responsibility
for today’s attacks, Yemen’s Interior Ministry in a statement
said they bore “the fingerprints of al-Qaeda.”  ‘Making Itself Heard’  "Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula is making itself heard
at a time that it has been under increasing attack," Theodore
Karasik, director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said by phone from Dubai.
‘It goes to the heart of how successful this campaign is against
al-Qaeda in Yemen, and it is showing that they are still able to
do multiple attacks in the same day.’’  The security guard at OMV, Hisham Mohammed Asem, was
arrested in connection the attack and was being interrogated,
the Interior Ministry said. Asem was hired by a private security
company, according to the ministry statement.  Today’s targeting of British Embassy workers was at least
the second involving the mission in Yemen this year. One of the
five embassy employees in the vehicle was treated for minor
injuries and at least two bystanders were also hurt in the
attack, which took place at about 8:15 a.m., the Foreign Office
in London said in a statement. The Yemeni ministry said the two
bystanders were a woman and a child.  In April, the U.K. ambassador to Yemen escaped a suicide
attack on his motorcade in Sana’a. The embassy was closed for
three days in January because of an al-Qaeda threat.  ‘Shameful Attack’  “This shameful attack on British diplomats will only
redouble Britain’s determination to work with the government of
Yemen to help address the challenges that country faces,” U.K.
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Foreign Minister Abu Bakr al-Qirbi promised Hague that
Yemen will carry out a “vigorous” investigation into the
shooting, the Foreign Office said in a separate statement.  The U.S. Central Intelligence Agency sees the Yemeni-based
offshoot of al-Qaeda as a bigger threat to American security
than its core group in Pakistan, the Washington Post reported
Aug. 24, citing unidentified American officials. In the same
week, Yemeni forces killed 12 al-Qaeda fighters as they flushed
them out of the besieged southern city of Loder.  OMV was awarded an additional block for oil and gas
exploration in Yemen three days ago, according to the state-run
SABA news agency. On July 25, gunmen killed six soldiers
guarding an OMV site in the Al Ukalah area of Yemen, east of
Shabwa province, Yemen police said.  The company has been in the country since 2003, when it
took over Preussag Energie GmbH, and holds three large
exploration and production licenses, according to its website.  An attack in September caused damage to a Yemen LNG Co.
natural-gas pipeline feeding its liquefied gas plant at Balhaf
on the Gulf of Aden. Yemen LNG’s shareholders include Yemen Gas
Co., Dallas-based Hunt Oil Co., South Korea’s SK Corp., Korea
Gas Corp. and Hyundai Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 