-- Gilts Advance on Speculation Government May Continue to Purchase Assets
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-06T16:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/u-k-gilts-advance-as-concern-over-further-bank-asset-purchases-persists.html
U.K. government bonds rose, pushing
the 10-year gilt yield down for the second day this week, before
the Bank of England meets to consider whether to restart bond
purchases to boost economic growth.  The pound also fell against the euro ahead of the central
bank’s Monetary Policy Committee meeting tomorrow. Policy maker
 Adam Posen  last week advocated further asset purchases, or
quantitative easing, saying monetary policy “should continue to
be aggressive about promoting recovery.” He has since been
backed by the British Chambers of Commerce and the Institute of
Directors.  “Gilts will continue to climb as overwhelmingly the market
is bracing for lower growth and more easing in the U.K.,
particularly after the speech by MPC member Adam Posen last
week,” said  Matteo Regesta , an interest-rate strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in London. “At the moment, we would rule out easing
in this year. The earliest risk of it happening would be first
quarter next year.”  The yield on the 10-year bond fell 8 basis points to 2.9
percent as of 4:59 p.m. in London. The 4.75 percent security
maturing March 2020 increased 0.62, or 6.2 pounds per 1,000-
pound ($1,590) face amount, to 115.20. The two-year yield fell 4
basis points to 0.62 percent.  Gilts have gained 9.7 percent since the end of 2009,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit. German government bonds earned 9.2 percent, while
U.S. Treasuries returned 9 percent.  Big Buyer  Regesta said bonds were boosted today because a large
investor had bought a so-called swap betting on 10 years of
subdued inflation. The investor made the trade because of
optimism that the U.K. government’s budget cuts will hold down
inflation and boost gilt prices, Regesta said without explaining
where he got his information. The U.K.’s coalition government
will outline cuts on Oct. 20 in its spending review.  The Institute of Directors, a London-based lobby group,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that the “time has now
come” for the MPC to increase asset purchases by 50 billion
pounds to 250 billion pounds. The median forecast of 36
economists in a Bloomberg News survey is for no change.  The group’s stance aligns it with the British Chambers of
Commerce, whose chief economist,  David Kern , said in a Sept. 30
interview that further stimulus was needed to boost growth.  The pound today depreciated versus 12 of its 16 most traded
peers ahead of the MPC’s decision on whether to resume asset
purchases after keeping its bond-buying program at 200 billion
pounds for the past 11 months.  ‘Poor Place’  It depreciated 0.6 percent to 87.6 pence per euro, its
lowest since May 21. It climbed 0.1 percent against the dollar
to $1.5909. Sterling has lost 5 percent this year against its
developed-countries peers, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes.  “Sterling has been left in a pretty poor place, as the
debate in the U.K. is focused on more quantitative easing,”
said  Steve Barrow , London-based head of Group of 10 foreign-
exchange research at Standard Bank. “The market is not going to
respond well to that, and the euro is going to stay pretty
firm.”  The pound earlier rose against the euro after Fitch Ratings
lowered Ireland’s credit grade to the lowest of any of the major
rating companies and said there’s a risk of a further reduction.
The euro-region country was cut to A+ from AA-, reflecting the
“exceptional and greater-than-expected cost” of the nation’s
bailout of its banking system, Fitch said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  