-- U.K. National Security Council Meets to Agree on Cuts in Military Spending
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/u-k-national-security-council-meets-to-agree-on-cuts-in-military-spending.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  chairs a
meeting of the U.K.’s National Security Council today to thrash
out the details of reductions in military spending as a deadline
for agreement looms.  Cameron is aiming to publish the coalition government’s
first strategic defense review since 1998 on Oct. 18, detailing
cuts to weapons programs to help tackle the  record budget
deficit  and redefine military needs for the post-Cold War era.  Ministers have largely agreed on what the report will say
about possible future security threats including cyber-warfare
and terrorism, a person involved in the talks said. Final
decisions on how to tackle the 38-billion pound ($60 billion)
defense funding shortfall concerning equipment programs are up
for discussion today, a second person said.  The dispute over the military budget has been the most
public within Cameron’s coalition, with Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  dubbing it a “soap opera.” Fox warned the premier last
week in a leaked letter that deep cuts to armed-forces spending
while Britain is at war in Afghanistan would hit soldiers’
morale and damage their Conservative Party. Fox later described
Cameron as his “strongest ally.”  “There are a lot of big choices on spending projects that
need to be made now,”  Michael Codner , a defense analyst at the
 Royal United Services Institute  in London, said in a telephone
interview. “There may be some more decisions that require
further study such as future army numbers that can be taken at a
later stage.”  Aircraft Carriers  Among projects under discussion are a 4.9 billion-pound
order for two aircraft carriers, one of which is already being
built, and orders for attack aircraft to replace Tornado jets.
Major suppliers of equipment to Britain’s armed forces include
 BAE Systems Plc ,  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  and  Finmeccanica SpA ’s
AgustaWestland unit.  Today’s meeting will be attended by Fox and Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  as well as military chiefs and the
heads of the secret service. Though the NSC is set to make most
of the decisions today, discussions may yet carry on until next
week, the first person said.  The defense ministry is gaining ground in the discussions
as it seeks to ensure that its expenditure will be cut by less
than 10 percent, compared with 25 percent for most other
departmental budgets, a third person said.  The Conservative-led coalition is blaming the previous
Labour administration for the shortfall in the defense budget.
Fox’s ministry won’t be able to afford between a third and half
of the equipment it plans to buy over the next decade.  “Exacerbating the challenges of the review is the bleak
financial situation left behind by Labour,” Fox told the
 Conservatives ’ annual conference in Birmingham, central England,
yesterday. “There is an unfunded liability in defense of around
38 billion pounds over the next 10 years, compared to an annual
budget of only 37 billion pounds.”  Osborne will set out cuts to other ministries’ spending on
Oct. 20, two days after the defense review. So far Osborne has
reached agreements with six departments on individual budgets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 