-- U.S. Seeks Supporters for $1 Billion Global Food Security Fund, Lago Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-10-06T00:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/u-s-seeks-supporters-for-1-billion-global-food-security-fund-lago-says.html
The U.S. wants to raise $1 billion
for a global food security fund by appealing to countries that
will meet in Washington this weekend to discuss world financial
issues, an Obama administration official said today.  Marisa Lago , the Treasury Department’s assistant secretary
for international affairs, said the U.S. will ask for money to
help farmers in the world’s poorest countries at  International
Monetary Fund  and World Bank meetings beginning Oct. 8. The same
pitch will be made to Group of 20 finance ministers, central
bankers and world leaders when they meet over the next few
weeks, she said.  At stake is the  Global Agriculture and Food Security 
Program, an international effort to deliver rapid and dependable
financing for farmers. Supported by the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation, the fund was created following a G-20 meeting in
Pittsburgh in 2009, and is administered by the World Bank.  Food prices spiked in 2008, triggering unrest in poorer
countries such as Haiti and Egypt. The United Nations said at
the time that some governments had not invested enough in the
production of food crops for local markets.  The new fund, so far, has $880 million in pledges but only
$120 million remaining in the bank, Lago said. Five grants were
recently approved -- totaling $224 million -- to Bangladesh,
Haiti, Rwanda, Sierra Leone and Togo to help enhance
productivity and train farmers. Lago said the fund has received
requests for close to $1 billion more in aid.  Initial Donors  The United States, Canada, South Korea and Spain were among
the initial donors. This weekend, the Obama administration,
which has pursued food security in poor countries as an
initiative, will approach European nations and other developed
countries, she said.  “Unless new donors come forward, we’re going to have to
turn away or push off strong applicants,” Lago told reporters
at a press briefing in Washington today. “We don’t kid
ourselves about the challenge.”  World Bank President Robert Zoellick yesterday said the
developing world continues to struggle with a food crisis that
has gone on since 2008.  “Recent prices are a serious cause for concern,” he said
in a conference call with reporters. “ The rise in wheat prices
over the last few months is affecting the price of other staples
due to increased demand for substitutes. So, we’ll have to find
a way to avoid food crises becoming the new normal.”  Wheat futures are up 38 percent since the end of June.
Wheat futures for December delivery rose today 16.25 cents, or
2.5 percent, to settle at $6.635 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the first gain since Sept. 24. During
the previous six sessions, the grain dropped 10 percent in part
as drought-damaged crops in Russia and Eastern Europe received
rain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  