-- U.S. Envoy Campbell Says Japan Ties Improving Amid Asia Territory Disputes
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 2010-10-06T09:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/u-s-envoy-campbell-says-japan-ties-improving-amid-asia-territory-disputes.html
U.S.-Japan ties, which foundered on a
dispute over an American military base, are on the mend as
territorial spats in Asia underscore the need to deepen the 50-
year alliance, an Obama administration official said.  “There has been a clear desire on both sides to step up
our diplomatic engagement,”  Kurt Campbell , assistant secretary
of state for East Asia, said at a briefing today in Tokyo.
“We’re living though a period of very consequential
developments. There’s now full recognition in both Washington
and Tokyo of the task at hand.”  Campbell praised Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  for his handling
of a territorial dispute with China over rival claims to
uninhabited islands in the East China Sea that sent ties to
their lowest level in five years. Kan met two days ago with
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  in Brussels at a Asia-Europe summit
and both leaders pledged to repair relations.  “These circumstances have the potential to spin out of
control,” Campbell said. “At critical moments they require a
leader to take stock and recognize the potential for long-term
harm. In this circumstance, that’s exactly what Prime Minister
Kan did.”  The U.S. seeks to “facilitate these dialogues” between
Asian countries over maritime issues without acting as a go-
between, Campbell said. He said the Obama administration played
no part in mediating between Asia’s two biggest economies after
a Chinese trawler last month collided with two Japanese Coast
Guard boats near the islands, known as  Senkaku  in Japanese and
Diaoyu in Chinese.  Hatoyama’s Resignation  Ties between the U.S. and Japan soured during an eight-
month dispute over whether to move a U.S. Marine facility off
the island of Okinawa. Former Prime Minister  Yukio Hatoyama 
resigned in June after submitting to U.S. pressure to keep the
Futenma Air Base on the island against the wishes of local
residents and some members of his government.  Hatoyama’s  Democratic Party of Japan  overturned half a
century of one-party politics when it came to power in September
2009. The rise of the DPJ meant “there would be some inevitable
challenges associated with the new government,” Campbell said.  The U.S. envoy, who goes to South Korea tomorrow, said
“it’s too soon to make any judgment” about the elevation last
week of North Korean dictator  Kim Jong Il ’s third  son  as heir
apparent.  Kim Jong Un , who may be 27 or 28, was named to North
Korea’s second-highest military position and made a four-star
general. The appointments were announced amid speculation his
father is preparing to hand over power since suffering an
apparent stroke in 2008.  Campbell said North Korea has to demonstrate it is serious
about improving relations with the South following the March
sinking of a South Korean naval vessel that an international
panel determined was caused by a North Korean torpedo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Brinsley  at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  