-- U.S. Retailers' Holiday Sales to Rise Most in 4 Years, NRF Says
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2010-10-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/u-s-retailers-holiday-sales-to-rise-most-in-4-years-nrf-says.html
U.S. holiday retail sales will climb
2.3 percent, for the best season in four years, as customers
lured by promotions purchase apparel and electronics, the
National Retail Federation said.  The increase in retail sales to $447.1 billion in November
and December will be the biggest since a 3.1 percent gain in
2006, the Washington-based trade group said. Holiday sales rose
0.4 percent last year after a 3.9 percent drop in 2008.  Consumers have begun buying again as the economy has
recovered, after cutting expenses during the worst recession
since the Great Depression of the 1930s. Retailers, which have
controlled inventories and made supply chains more efficient,
will use planned promotions to drive sales, NRF President
 Matthew Shay  said.  “The season is hopeful because we are positioned in a much
better place than we were over the last two years,” Shay said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “We’re headed in the right
direction. We are hoping for a sustained economic recovery.”  Sales growth for the winter holidays, typically the biggest
shopping season for U.S. retailers, will remain lower than the
average 2.5 percent gain this decade, according to NRF data.  The world’s largest economy expanded at an annual rate of
1.7 percent in the second quarter, a slowdown compared with the
previous two quarters, the Commerce Department said Sept. 30.  “People want to feel during the holiday, at least
temporarily, that things have returned to normal,” Shay said.
“That’s a time when an emotional purchase almost feels like a
necessity.”  Best Since 2006  The NRF uses the commerce department’s retail sales figures
excluding auto, gasoline and restaurant sales.  The International Council of Shopping Centers, another
trade group, said Oct. 1 that U.S. retailers’ sales at stores
open at least a year will climb 3 percent to 3.5 percent this
holiday season, the best performance since 2006.  That gain for November and December is consistent with the
year-to-date climb of 3.5 percent,  Mike Niemira , the ICSC’s
chief economist, said at the time. His New York-based trade
group tracks more than 30 chains.  Retail sales in November and December account for 20
percent to 40 percent of U.S. retailers’ annual revenue,
according to the NRF. The 2009 fourth quarter accounted for
almost all of  Macy’s Inc. ’s profit that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  