-- U.S. `Supportive' of Peace Talks as Afghans Meet Former Taliban in Kabul
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2010-10-07T10:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/u-s-supportive-of-talks-between-taliban-afghan-government-gibbs-says.html
The White House repeated U.S. support
for Afghan peace talks with the Taliban as an aide to President
 Hamid Karzai  met former leaders of the guerrilla movement.  Education Minister Ghulam Farooq Wardak, a member of a
peacemaking council appointed by Karzai, conferred in Kabul this
week with ex-officials of the former Taliban regime,
Afghanistan’s  Pajhwok  news agency  reported . Pakistani
politicians and Arab delegates joined the meeting in the capital,
which focused on how best to build a settlement with the
insurgency, said a former Taliban official who attended, and who
asked not to be named.  Karzai’s deputy spokesman, Siamak Herawy, confirmed the
meeting, which took place at Kabul’s Serena Hotel, and declined
to give details.  The Afghan president today summoned his peace council for
an inaugural formal meeting on the ninth anniversary of the
start of a U.S. bombing campaign that helped force the Taliban
from power and install Karzai’s government.  The Washington Post reported yesterday that the Taliban
have begun secret “high-level talks” with Karzai’s government.
Those talks are at a preliminary stage and follow meetings held
in Saudi Arabia more than a year ago, the newspaper cited
unnamed Afghan and Arab sources as saying.  The Taliban representatives in those talks are believed to
have been “fully authorized” by the Quetta Shura, the
Taliban’s top council, and its leader,  Mohammad Omar , the Post
said.  Renounce Violence  For the U.S. to accept peace talks, the Taliban must
renounce violence, said White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs .
The U.S. will not meet directly with Taliban leaders, he told
reporters yesterday.  “This is not something that we do with the Taliban,”
Gibbs said. “This is something that Afghans -- the Afghan
government -- has to do with people in Afghanistan. And we have
always been supportive of that reconciliation.”  Gibbs declined to confirm details of the newspaper’s report
and would only outline the U.S. policy on such talks.  State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  declined to
confirm knowledge of the talks. Any such discussions would “not
contradict U.S. policy,” he said, and “there has to be a
political solution to the current challenge.”  Crowley said the U.S. believes some branches of the Taliban
“may well be willing to seek a political solution. We recognize
that other groups will be holdouts and that’s why we are
intensively bringing the fight to them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@blooomberg.net ;
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net . 