-- U.S. Cities Expect Finances to Worsen as Property Taxes Slide
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-10-06T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/u-s-cities-expect-finances-to-worsen-as-property-taxes-slide-study-says.html
U.S. cities expect their financial
strains to worsen as the slide in real estate prices that began
four years ago cuts deeper into property-tax collections,
according to a survey by the  National League of Cities .  Eighty percent of city finance officers expect to have more
difficulty balancing their budgets in the 2011 fiscal year,
which began in June for most municipalities, than during the
prior period, according to the survey. While  housing prices  have
begun to stabilize, property taxes are expected to drop as home
prices are reassessed to account for earlier declines.  “They’re in the eye of the storm right now,” said
Christopher Hoene, the director of research for the association,
a Washington group that lobbies for local governments.  The city officials’ expectations show how the economy’s
emergence from the recession is leaving lingering financial
difficulties for communities. Confronted with budget deficits,
public officials have raised fees, cut spending for police and
firefighters, and frozen employee pay to make up for the gaps.  The National League, which surveyed 338 cities from April
through June, said general-fund revenue, adjusted for inflation,
dropped 3.2 percent in the 2010 budget year. That was the
steepest decline since the group began keeping track in 1986.
Spending was cut 2.3 percent, the most since 2003.  Recession Impact  While the recession ended in June 2009, the unemployment
rate is likely to remain above 9 percent next year as the
economy fails to grow fast enough to add enough jobs for those
seeking to rejoin the labor force, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “What we’re seeing is the effects of the recession, in
terms of revenue collections, and then the spending cuts in
response to those collections are intensifying,” Hoene said.  The mounting fiscal distress has stoked speculation that
investors could be hit by defaults in the $2.8 trillion
municipal bond market, a traditional haven of the U.S.
securities markets.  Vallejo, California, filed for bankruptcy protection in
2008, while Jefferson County, Alabama, has been struggling for
more than two years to avoid the same fate. Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, coping with debt it guaranteed on an incinerator,
avoided default last month when the state provided advance aid
to the capital. Some city officials are considering bankruptcy.  Still a Rarity  While the deficits are widespread, municipal bankruptcy has
been discussed more on Wall Street than in city halls, said
Hoene.  “Even if there are a few places that are flirting with
bankruptcy as an option, it’s still overwhelmingly a rarity,”
he said.  Most cities are responding with budget cuts, according to
the National League’s survey. Some three-quarters have
implemented hiring freezes, while more than half have frozen or
cut wages for employees and 35 percent implemented layoffs. One
in four raised fees or property taxes, the survey found.  Hoene said city budgets next year will be affected by cuts
in aid from Washington, a step that may prompt states to
withhold more cash from localities in order to salve their own
financial problems.  “The real drop-off comes in 2011,” he said of the federal
aid. “So some of the state cuts we would have expected to come
sooner given that states are still facing fairly large deficits
in a lot of places are still likely to be coming.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  