-- Pakistan Crossing Stays Shut to NATO Afghanistan Trucks After U.S. Apology
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2010-10-07T07:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/u-s-says-pakistan-may-open-afghanistan-supply-route-as-nato-trucks-burn.html
Pakistan kept shut the main border
crossing used to supply NATO troops in Afghanistan a day after
the U.S. apologized for killing three Pakistani soldiers in the
air strike that triggered the transit point’s closure.  At least 2,500 trucks are backed up waiting for permission
to enter Afghanistan, Khawaja Muhammad Khan, president of the
nationwide truckers body, said by phone from Peshawar, the main
city in Pakistan’s northwest. Khan Pasand Khan, a government
official in Khyber Agency, confirmed there had been no order to
allow trucks and fuel tankers, dozens of which were set ablaze
by militants in the past week, to cross the Torkham border post.  Pakistan closed the Khyber Pass route into Afghanistan
after the Sept. 30 attack by U.S. helicopters, which the
American ambassador to Pakistan,  Anne Patterson  yesterday called
a “terrible accident.” Taliban guerrillas claimed
responsibility for recent strikes on tankers parked along the
route to Torkham, through which flow most of the 580 truckloads
per day of supplies and fuel contracted by NATO.  Guerrillas late yesterday launched the fourth major assault
on supply lines for 142,000 North Atlantic Treaty Organization
troops fighting the Afghan Taliban since the border point was
closed. The attack destroyed 50 fuel tankers in the northwest
city of Nowshera, Himayat Shah, general secretary of the All-
Pakistan Combined Trucks and Trailers Welfare Association, said
by telephone from Karachi today.  ‘Sitting Ducks’  “More than 100 trucks supplying fuel and cargo are
stranded” in Nowshera, district police officer Nisar Ahmed
Tanoli said by phone. “I have directed drivers to scatter
around the city so they do not become sitting ducks for
attackers.”  Gunmen yesterday set fire to 10 out of 30 fuel trucks
parked near the southwestern city of Quetta on their way to the
nearby Chaman border crossing into Afghanistan. While Chaman has
remained open, Dawn News reported yesterday that  152 trailers 
and oil tankers with “tampered” documents had been detained
there.  With the week-long border closure, Pakistan “has exercised
one of its key levers against its ally: reminding Washington of
its reliance on Pakistani territory to wage the war in
Afghanistan,” the Austin, Texas, risk analysis firm  Stratfor 
said.  A joint U.S.-Pakistani investigation established that the
U.S. helicopters mistook the Pakistani Frontier Scouts for
insurgents, the U.S. embassy in Kabul said in a statement.
Pakistan’s ambassador in Washington, Husain Haqqani, has linked
the investigation to the border supply route being re-opened.  ‘Deepest Apology’  “We extend our deepest apology to Pakistan and the
families of the Frontier Scouts who were killed and injured,”
Patterson said in a statement. “Pakistan’s brave security
forces are our allies in a war that threatens both Pakistan and
the U.S.”  Army General  David Petraeus , the top U.S. and NATO
commander in Afghanistan, offered condolences to the families of
those killed and wounded and said the coalition “deeply”
regrets the loss of life.  “The helicopters fired on a building later identified as a
Pakistan border outpost, in response to shots fired from the
post,” the  NATO -led International Security Assistance Force
said in its statement. “The assessment team considered it most
probably that they had fired in an attempt to warn the
helicopters of their presence.”  The U.S.-commanded NATO forces in Afghanistan crossed into
Pakistani territory several times last month, Pakistani
officials have said. The Obama administration in September
quadrupled its missile strikes in northwest Pakistan against
Islamic guerrilla groups that are fighting it in Afghanistan and
that might be linked to what Western governments say is a
possible plot for terrorist attacks in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 Kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  