-- Corporate Credit Risk Index Halts Decline After Payroll Drop
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-10-06T21:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-benchmark-falls-to-five-month-low.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk in
the U.S. was little changed as speculation the Federal Reserve
will buy more bonds to bolster the recovery failed to outweigh a
report showing payrolls dropped.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
was almost unchanged at a mid-price of 98.7 basis points,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The measure
typically climbs as investor confidence deteriorates and falls
as it improves. Swaps on Halliburton Co. and Baker Hughes Inc.
declined.  The index, which fell 6.33 basis points yesterday, the
biggest drop since Sept. 21, halted its improvement as
speculation that the Fed will act to revive the U.S. economy by
purchasing assets signaled weakness in the recovery, according
to  Brian Yelvington  of Knight Libertas LLC.  Quantitative easing shows “the outlook for the economy is
bad and not improving,” Yelvington, head of the broker-dealer’s
fixed-income strategy in Greenwich, Connecticut, wrote in a note
today.  Employment at companies in the U.S. decreased by 39,000
last month, the biggest drop since January, after a revised
10,000 rise in August, according to figures from ADP Employer
Services. The median estimate of 37 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 20,000 gain. Forecasts ranged from a
decline of 44,000 to a 75,000 increase.  Liquidity Impact  Weak employment data serves “to illustrate why we should
not view QE as an excuse to enter risk assets,” Yelvington
wrote.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues have
signaled they may announce the purchase of more Treasuries as
soon as their next policy meeting on Nov. 2-3 in an effort to
boost growth and reduce an unemployment rate stuck near 10
percent for the past year.  “The impact of this liquidity on the markets can be pretty
substantial,” said  Jason Quinn , co-head of high-grade and high-
yield flow trading at Barclays Capital in New York, said in an
interview. “People de-risked throughout May, June and July. As
a result of that, we now have a lot of liquidity chasing a
limited supply of risk assets.”  Credit swaps on Halliburton declined 8.2 basis points to
72.5, according to data provider CMA. Swaps on Baker Hughes Inc.
fell 5.2 basis points to 57.8, CMA prices show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 Jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  