-- Most U.S. Stocks Retreat on Technology Slump, Unexpected Decrease in Jobs
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-10-06T20:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/u-s-stock-index-futures-gain-exxon-mobil-alcoa-advance-with-commodities.html
Most U.S. stocks fell, a day after
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rallied to an almost five-month
high, after a report showing an unexpected decrease in private
payrolls undermined confidence in the economic recovery.  Equinix Inc. plunged 33 percent after sales at the operator
of Internet data centers trailed estimates. M&T Bank Corp.
dropped 5 percent as Allied Irish Banks Plc said it will start
selling its stake in the Buffalo, New York-based lender. General
Electric Co. rose 2.4 percent after buying oilfield-equipment
maker Dresser Inc. for $3 billion. Alcoa Inc. gained 1.9 percent
before reporting quarterly earnings  tomorrow .  More than four stocks declined for every three that rose on
U.S. exchanges. The  S&P 500  fell 0.1 percent to 1,159.97 at 4
p.m. in New York, after surging 2.1 percent yesterday. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  rose 22.93 points, or 0.2 percent, to
10,967.65.  “The bias in the market is to the downside because
sentiment is very negative,” said  Mark Freeman , a money manager
at Westwood Management Corp. in Dallas, which oversees $10
billion.  The S&P 500 climbed to the highest level since May
yesterday after U.S. service industries expanded more than
forecast and speculation grew that the Federal Reserve will join
Japan’s efforts to stoke economic growth. The index is down 0.5
percent from May 5, the day before the 20-minute crash that
briefly erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. shares.  ‘Strong Signal’  In the past week, New York Federal Reserve President
 William Dudley , the Boston Fed’s  Eric Rosengren  and Chicago’s
 Charles Evans  have advocated further Fed action to stimulate the
economy. Dudley’s Oct. 1 speech was a “strong signal” that
policymakers will vote to restart asset purchases at the next
Federal Open Market Committee meeting Nov. 2-3, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist  Edward McKelvey .  Equity futures erased gains before the open of exchanges in
New York after companies in the U.S. unexpectedly cut 39,000
workers last month, figures from ADP Employer Services showed.
Economists had forecast 20,000 jobs would be added, according to
the median in a Bloomberg survey. The release comes two days
before the Labor Department’s monthly payrolls report, which is
forecast to show companies added 75,000 people in September.  “There’s still a debate about the economy and whether
we’re going to slip back into a recession,” said  Mark Bronzo , a
money manager in Irvington, New York, at Security Global
Investors, which oversees $21 billion. “It all hinges on jobs.
The ADP data causes us to be concerned about nonfarm payrolls on
Friday. Futures were up and the ADP number took the wind out of
our sails.”  Hedge Funds  Equinix  plunged 33 percent to $70.34. The operator of
Internet data centers said third-quarter sales were no more than
$330 million, compared with the average analyst estimate of
$336.6 million. The plunge by Equinix was the biggest in a
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  index  of 50 stocks that appear most
frequently in the top 10 holdings of hedge funds that have 10 to
200 investments.  Akamai Technologies Inc., the largest supplier of software
to make websites and digital media load faster, lost 7.6 percent
to $44.25. Citrix Systems Inc., the maker of networking
software, dropped 14 percent to $60.15.  M&T Bank  slid 5 percent to $78.91. Allied Irish said it
will start selling its 22.4 percent stake in the lender, valued
at $2.2 billion, in a U.S. public offering.  Allied Irish  The disposal would unwind a seven-year union that began
when M&T acquired Allied Irish’s U.S.-based Allfirst Financial
unit for stock and cash in 2003. Allied Irish has been weighing
options for the M&T stake and other assets to raise money as its
finances deteriorated.  GE had the biggest gain in the Dow, rising 2.4 percent to
$16.90. GE agreed to buy Dresser for $3 billion, shoring up its
biggest industrial unit, as Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  begins spending cash accumulated over the past two years.  Gauges of S&P 500 companies that produce raw materials and
energy rose 0.8 percent as the S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities
rallied to the highest in almost two years on speculation
central banks around the world will join the Bank of Japan in
increasing purchases of government debt to boost the economic
recovery.  Alcoa rose 1.9 percent to $12.37. The country’s biggest
aluminum producer, which tomorrow becomes the first Dow company
to post third-quarter results, may post earnings of 5 cents a
share excluding some items, according to the  average  analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  