-- U.S. Apartment Vacancies Decline for the First Time Since 2007
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2010-10-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/u-s-apartment-vacancy-rate-declines-for-the-first-time-in-three-years.html
U.S.  apartment  vacancies dropped for
the first time in almost three years in the third quarter,
suggesting the trend of people moving in with family or friends
might be abating,  Reis Inc.  said today.  The national vacancy rate fell to 7.2 percent from 7.9
percent a year earlier and 7.8 percent in the second quarter,
the New York-based research firm said. It was the lowest rate
since 2008’s fourth quarter, when it was 6.7 percent, and the
first year-over-year drop since 2007’s fourth quarter. Vacancies
reached a three-decade high of 8 percent late last year.  Rental demand usually goes up during the second and third
quarters, when people tend to lease apartments, said  Victor Calanog , director of research at Reis. The U.S. recession
interrupted that pattern starting two years ago as widespread
 job cuts  prompted many people to move in with parents or friends
instead of renting their own apartments.  “Those guys are starting to move back to the rental
market,” Calanog said in a telephone interview. “What we’re
seeing might be these folks who realized, ‘Hey, I love my father
and mother, but I don’t think I can live with them forever. I’ll
take a chance on a yearlong lease and maybe I can find a job in
six to nine months.’”  The change in occupied space, known as net absorption, rose
by 84,382 units, a record since Reis began keeping the data in
1999, the company said. Net absorption totaled 157,788
apartments from January through September, compared with almost
21,000 units vacated a year earlier.  Concessions, Jobs  Signing of apartment leases has risen as a surge in home
foreclosures forced many people to rent and landlords offered
concessions amid a weak economy. Job growth will determine
whether the apartment market continues to improve, Calanog said.  “If the pace of job growth is really lackluster, then I
wouldn’t be shocked if vacancies suddenly rose in the fourth
quarter,” Calanog.  About 90 percent of the rise in net absorption came from
leasing up existing apartments, Reis said. New properties came
to market almost half empty, and the total supply of new stock
was the smallest since 2007’s second quarter. The 21,906 new
units that came to market in the third quarter had an average
vacancy rate of 60 percent, said Reis.  Landlords’ asking rents climbed to $1,037, little changed
from $1,033 a year earlier and $1,032 in the second quarter,
according to  Reis . Actual rents paid by tenants, known as
effective rents, rose to an average $980 from $971 a year
earlier and $974 in the second quarter  New Haven, Connecticut, had the lowest vacancy rate in the
third quarter, at 2.3 percent, followed by New York City; Long
Island, New York; San Jose; and Central New Jersey, according to
Reis. New Haven is home to  Yale University .  The Reis survey measures about 9.1 million apartments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hui-yong Yu  in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  