-- Mortgage Applications in U.S. Fall for Fifth Week as Refinancing Declines
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-10-06T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/u-s-mortgage-applications-fall-for-fifth-week-led-by-drop-in-refinancing.html
The number of mortgage applications
in the U.S. declined for a fifth straight week, led by a drop in
refinancing even as mortgage rates fell to a record low.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association’s  index decreased 0.2
percent in the week ended Oct. 1, the Washington-based group
said today.  Refinancing  fell to an eight-week low, while
purchases increased by the most since April.  An  unemployment rate  close to a 26-year high and stricter
lending standards are limiting home sales even as record-low
mortgage rates make buying more affordable. Federal Reserve Bank
of New York President  William Dudley  said last week the outlook
for job growth and inflation is “unacceptable,” and more
monetary easing is probably needed to bolster the economy.  “The housing market is moving up a little off the
bottom,”  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase
in New York, said before the report. “Refi activity has come
down a little, but it’s still quite high. There is probably only
a limited capacity to refinance because so many people are with
negative equity on the homes.”  The mortgage banker’s group’s refinancing gauge fell 2.5
percent. The purchase measure increased 9.3 percent.  A report earlier this week showed the number of contracts
to purchase previously owned homes increased for a second month.
The National Association of Realtors’ index of  pending home
resales  rose 4.3 percent in August, more than forecast, after a
4.5 percent gain. Compared with the same month a year ago,
pending sales were down 18 percent.  Record Low  The average rate on a  30-year  fixed mortgage fell to 4.25
percent, the lowest in records going back to 1990, today’s
report showed. At that pace, monthly payments for each $100,000
of a loan would be about $491.94, or $37.57 less than a year ago
when the rate was 4.88 percent.  The average rate on a 15-year fixed loan fell to 3.73
percent, also the lowest on record, from 3.77 percent and the
rate on a one-year adjustable increased to 7.11 percent from
7.04 percent.  The  share of applicants  seeking to refinance a loan fell to
78.9 percent from 80.7 percent.  Sales plummeted after the deadline for signing contracts
and becoming eligible for a government homebuyer tax credit
worth as much as $8,000 expired on April 30.  The Obama administration said Aug. 30 it planned to
announce a proposal for an emergency loan program to help the
unemployed avoid default. The plan would also include a
government mortgage refinancing effort to lower monthly mortgage
payments for Americans facing foreclosure.  Home Prices  Home prices rose 3.2 percent in July from a year earlier,
the smallest gain since March, according to a report last week
from S&P/Case-Shiller released Sept. 28.  U.S. home prices may fall again unless the government
provides new aid enabling owners to refinance mortgages, Harvard
University economics professor  Martin Feldstein  said yesterday.  “The danger is house prices are going to start falling
again because of the end of the first-time homebuyer credit,”
Feldstein said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness With  Margaret Brennan .” “That fall in house
prices,” coupled with a lack of equity in homes, “could lead
to a big increase in defaults and foreclosures, putting more
homes on the market driving prices down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  