-- Restaurant Sales Signal `Resiliency' of Consumer Spending
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2010-10-06T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/u-s-restaurants-show-resiliency-of-consumer-spending-amid-weak-recovery.html
Sales at  DineEquity Inc. , parent of
Applebee’s Neighborhood Grill and Bar, are rising at restaurants
open for at least 18 months, thanks to its new Sizzling Skillet
entrees starting at $8.99.  BJ’s Restaurants Inc.  and  The Cheesecake Factory Inc. ,
based in based in Huntington Beach and Calabasas Hills,
California, also are reporting more revenue this year,
indicating consumers are eating more at casual eateries.
Cheesecake’s meals, for instance, range from $5.95 to $27.95.  Restaurants, a proxy for discretionary consumer spending,
have “surprised some investors with their resiliency,” said
 Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund manager at
Federated Investors Inc., which oversees about $350 billion. The
$160 million Federated Clover  Small Value Fund  he manages is
planning to buy restaurant stocks, he said.  Consumers are loosening purse strings on some items more
than a year after the end of a recession that cost about 8
million workers their jobs, and in spite of a 9.6 percent
unemployment rate that’s near a 26-year high. A  Bloomberg index 
that tracks 19 full-service restaurant chains has more than
tripled from its November 2008 low and is near an all-time high
relative to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “What I’m starting to see is stability,” said  Christopher O’Donnell , president and chief executive officer of  Famous
Dave’s  of America Inc. in Minnetonka, Minnesota, which owns and
franchises 180 restaurants in 36 states. “I’m feeling better
about consumers’ willingness to spend.”  ‘Bit Guarded’  “People still want to have a nice affair, but are going to
be a little bit guarded about where they spend,” O’Donnell said
in an Oct. 5 interview.  A year ago, only 8 percent of U.S. adults planned to
increase household spending, which accounts for about 70 percent
of the economy, and almost one-third said they would spend less
after retrenching during the worst recession since the 1930s, a
Bloomberg News survey showed at the time.  “Anecdotally, it does appear discretionary spending, the
kind of spending hit hardest during a recession, seems to be
holding up better than you would think,” said  Gary Schlossberg ,
senior economist at Wells Capital Management Inc. in San
Francisco, which bought 246,614 shares of Cheesecake Factory
that were reported in June. He isn’t involved in his firm’s
stock purchases and can’t comment on them.  To be sure, investors remain concerned about the pace of
the recovery and hiring, as reflected in shares of staffing
companies such as  Manpower Inc.  and  Robert Half International 
Inc., that have dropped this year. The Standard and Poor’s
Supercomposite Human Resources & Employment Services Index,
which includes Manpower and Robert Half, has fallen 14.8 percent
from its 52-week high on April 23.  Rational Choice  “The choices investors have made are economically
rational,” said Creatura, whose small-value fund sold all its
shares in staffing companies about two months ago. “Staffing
businesses are waxing and waning with the state of unemployment.
Restaurants have evolved into becoming a more stable part of the
lifestyle of consumers. For that reason, they deserve to be
rewarded at the margin.”  Household wealth in the U.S. fell 2.8 percent in the second
quarter to $53.5 trillion, according to the Federal Reserve’s
Flow of Funds report issued last month. The personal savings
rate averaged 6.1 percent, up from an average 5.5 percent in the
first three months of the year, according to Fed figures.  Enjoy a Dinner  “The economy is losing momentum so it makes sense that the
leading indicators of hiring would still be on the soft side,”
Schlossberg said. Still, tourism, as well as sales of wine and
luxury autos, are doing well, which suggests “upper-income
people may be spending more,” he said.  “People want to go out and slowly start” to enjoy
themselves, said  Sirio Maccioni , owner of seven restaurants in
the U.S. and the Dominican Republic, including  Le Cirque , which
is located in the same Manhattan building as the headquarters of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Maccioni, who opened his first restaurant in 1974, said his
three Las Vegas restaurants are sold out every night. Clients
are instead controlling spending, for example ordering wine by
the glass instead of a bottle, he said.  At Darden Restaurants Inc., whose restaurants include Red
Lobster, Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse, sales at units
open at least 16 months rose an average of 1.1 percent in the
quarter ended Aug. 29, compared with a 5.3 percent drop in the
year-earlier period.  “A lack of consistently positive jobs numbers makes people
conservative about their spending,” said  Daniel Popowics , fund
manager at Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati, which has
$18 billion under management including Darden shares. “Consumer
discretionary spending is challenging.”  ‘Stopped the Bleeding’  Shares of Glendale, California-based DineEquity gained 4
percent to close at $46.57 yesterday in New York. BJ’s gained
2.3 percent to $29.33, Cheesecake Factory gained 4.5 percent to
$27.50, while Famous Dave’s gained 2.2 percent to $9.68.  “Consumer spending is definitely up,” said  Tilman Fertitta , chief executive officer of  Landry’s Restaurants Inc. 
in Houston, which operates more than 200 restaurants, as well as
the  Golden Nugget  hotel and casino in Las Vegas.  “The economy is definitely coming back, but it’s very
slowly coming back,” Fertitta said in an Oct. 5 interview.
“We’ve stopped the bleeding and are now healing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony Feld  in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  