-- UBS, Credit Suisse Need New Investors for CoCo Bonds
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-10-06T14:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ubs-credit-suisse-may-need-new-investor-base-for-coco-bonds.html
UBS AG  and  Credit Suisse Group AG 
will have to develop a new market to sell contingent convertible
bonds being demanded by regulators because many traditional bank
debt holders won’t buy them, CreditSights Inc. said.  The so-called CoCos “are going into a market that doesn’t
currently exist,” said  Simon Adamson , an analyst in London at
the independent bond research firm. “Their best bet might be to
find a new investor base.”  A Swiss panel of bankers and regulators recommended this
week that the nation’s two largest banks hold capital equivalent
to at least 19 percent of assets, with as much as 72 billion
francs ($75 billion) of CoCos. The notes automatically become
equity when triggers are breached, supplying a buffer against
losses in a crisis.  CoCo’s aren’t included in benchmark indexes such as those
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Barclays Capital,
meaning that investors who use those gauges as benchmarks aren’t
obliged to buy.  Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service have said
that not all CoCos will be rated, and those that are will
probably be graded lower than traditional bonds.  ‘Cheap as Chips’  “From an investor’s point of view, if the Swiss proposals
become the Europe-wide standard, you know that the banks have to
issue a certain amount of Cocos,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of
fixed income at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. “That
combination of necessity issuance and no natural buyer suggests
that they will have to be as cheap as chips to become a
significant part of the bond market.”  Bankers are also concerned investors are being asked to
absorb a type of security they mostly haven’t seen before.  “There is no natural universe of buyers, is my main
issue,” UBS Chief Financial Officer  John Cryan  said on an Oct.
4 conference call. “You are looking for an immensely deep
market for something that is really quite an obscure and untried
and untested instrument. And I do wonder if ever one of these
did trigger whether that would not cause a systemic issue with
that market.”  Market Development  Credit Suisse Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan ,
speaking at a presentation on Sept. 29 said he was “pretty
confident” a market for the securities would develop.  Investors in CoCos that convert into equity when an
issuer’s ratios are still relatively high would probably be
“flexible about how they look at their fixed-income
investments,” and might include sovereign wealth funds and
hedge funds, Dougan said.  Buyers of bonds that convert when a crisis is more advanced
aren’t actually taking on more risk than buyers of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s senior notes and “bank capital in that
form would be pretty interesting to your typical fixed-income
investor,” he said. “At least I get some equity out of it.”  Two banks have issued CoCos since the credit crisis blew up
in 2007. Holders of the subordinated debt of Lloyds Banking
Group Plc swapped some of their notes for the securities in a
so-called distressed exchange, accepting a discount to face
value to obtain about 7.5 billion pounds ($11.9 billion) of debt
that would continue to pay interest.  Rabobank Groep NV , which has the highest possible ratings
from both Moody’s and S&P, in March issued 1.25 billion euros of
10-year senior bonds that will be written down to 25 percent of
face value and repaid if the bank’s capital ratio sinks to less
than 7 percent.  Won’t Fly  Rabobank is paying a coupon of 6.875 percent on the bonds,
which currently trade at a premium of about 495 basis points
more than similar-maturity government debt. That’s almost seven
times the average spread of 73 basis points that the debt of AAA
rated financial institutions in Europe trades at, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Rabobank decided not to rate its contingent notes. Lack of
a rating means investors that are obliged to hold only rated
instruments can’t buy the securities, limiting their appeal.  “Someone has to buy these things and if they don’t like
them they’ll charge a high rate,” said  Theo Vermaelen ,
Professor of Finance at INSEAD in Fontainebleau, France. “You
need something that everyone likes, issuers, investors and
regulators, or it’s never going to fly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  