-- Lukoil May List Shares Bought Back from Conoco in Asia `Soon,' Fedun Says
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2010-10-06T13:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/lukoil-to-list-in-hong-kong-or-singapore-soon-billionaire-fedun-says.html
OAO Lukoil , Russia’s largest oil
producer not controlled by the state, may sell shares it bought
back from ConocoPhillips to Asian investors to broaden its
shareholder base.  Lukoil may list existing shares in Hong Kong or Singapore
as early as next year, Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Leonid Fedun  said today. Fedun doesn’t exclude that shares bought back
from  ConocoPhillips  could be used for a listing, Interfax
reported.  “The more markets, the more liquidity, the more money to
shareholders,” Fedun told reporters at a conference in Moscow.  In August, Lukoil bought 7.6 percent of its stock from the
Houston-based company for $3.44 billion. Lukoil and an investor
group including UniCredit Bank AG and a company related to
Lukoil CEO  Vagit Alekperov  bought 5 percent more for $2.4
billion.  “Shareholders would prefer those shares be canceled but
nobody is holding their breath,”  Pavel Sorokin , an oil and gas
analyst at Alfa Bank, said by telephone today.  ConocoPhillips  now holds as little as 4 percent of Lukoil,
the Moscow-based company said. ConocoPhillips held 6.15 percent
of Lukoil on Sept. 27, and intends to sell the entire stake to
repay debts and buy back its own shares, Chief Executive Officer
 Jim Mulva  said at the time.  $5 Billion Cash Flow  Lukoil has a strong credit position and is not in danger of
suffering a rating downgrade as a result of the share buyback,
Fedun said. He didn’t rule out the company buying more shares.  Standard & Poor’s Rating Service warned in July that it may
cut Lukoil’s  credit rating  by one level should the Russian oil
producer use short-term credit to buy back all of its shares
from the Houston-based company.  The company plans to produce $5 billion in free cash flow
by the end of this year and will stick to a strategy of
increasing  dividends , Fedun said.  Lukoil may look to Asia for growth in the next few years,
Fedun said last month. The company’s application to bid for
Russia’s largest undistributed fields, near a port controlled by
Lukoil in the Arctic north, was rejected in September.  The company won’t dispute the Russian subsoil agency’s
decision to exclude it from the competition for the Trebs and
Titov fields, Fedun said. They will be offered in December at a
starting price of 18.2 billion rubles ($610 million).  ‘Not Pretty’  “If the government had decided whom it wanted to develop
the field, it should have passed a directive to give them the
asset,” Fedun said. “That’s within the law and the state’s
right. Here we had a tender announced and the way it was
conducted wasn’t pretty to say the least.”  Lukoil plans to produce up to 18 billion cubic meters of gas
in Uzbekistan in 2016, Fedun said. Gas marketing will be the
decision of the Uzbek government, he said.  China has turned to Central Asia for natural gas supplies
as talks on pipelines and supplies have been deadlocked in a
dispute over price. China opened a pipeline to Turkmenistan,
running through Uzbekistan, late last year. Uzbekistan
traditionally exported gas through the Russian network run by
OAO Gazprom.  Lukoil and China National Petroleum Corp. signed an accord
in September on possible natural-gas supplies to the Asian
nation. Lukoil and CNPC are partners in the Aral venture in
Uzbekistan, which found gas in June. Lukoil cannot independently
sell gas produced in Russia to China because Gazprom holds a
monopoly on exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Bierman  in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  