-- Ukraine's State Companies Rot as Politicians Squabble Over Sale
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2010-10-07T13:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ukraine-s-state-companies-rot-as-politicians-squabble-over-sale.html
At  Kyivenergo’s  facility No. 5, which
supplies half of Kiev’s heating needs, workers scurry along
scaffolding and crawl into rusty boilers with blowtorches trying
to keep the plant in the Ukrainian capital running.  Their efforts might be in vain. Without the $1 billion
needed to replace worn-out Soviet-made turbines, antiquated
electrical equipment and heat-exchange tubing, the 10-story
state-controlled utility may be forced to shut within five
years, said Chairman  Eduard Sokolovsky .  “In the past two years, we haven’t gotten a cent of
investment,” Sokolovsky said in his office in central  Kiev .
“This kind of policy will lead to our demise.”  Ukraine has a population almost five times Portugal’s, yet
an  economy  still half the size and one dependent on Russia and
the International Monetary Fund. The country has dawdled behind
the rest of former communist Europe in attracting foreign
investment because of political wrangling over state assets.  Hundreds of the former Soviet republic’s companies risk
financial collapse as the government starves them of cash amid
 budget  cuts and indecision on their sale. The country’s biggest
companies were sold mainly to local millionaires or remain in
government control while neighbors Hungary and Poland sold
theirs to foreign investors in the 1990s.  “The privatization process was a hostage to vested
interests,” said  Alexander Valchyshen , head of research at
Investment Capital Ukraine in Kiev. “If it had been speedier,
we would have been closer to the economic development of the
countries of central and eastern Europe.”  Telecom Delay  The Ukrainian government on Sept. 28 said it aimed to sell
phone company  VAT Ukrtelecom  by the end of this year. The
previous administration said the same in 2009.  While in state hands, firms are also unable to lure private
investment to modernize facilities at a time when banks are
unwilling to extend loans after a credit crunch, analysts said.  For this year, the government received 514 million hryvnia
($64.7 million) of revenue from selling state assets as of Sept.
23, or 8.1 percent of the planned target of 6.35 billion
hryvnia, the  State Property Fund  said on its website.  “The government’s privatization policy simply doesn’t
exist,” said  Alexander Paraschiy , an analyst at  BG Capital 
investment bank in Kiev.  Pressure Builds  Financial pressure is building on state plants such as
Kyivenergo as the International Monetary Fund demands Ukraine
trim the budget deficit to 3.5 percent of gross domestic product
next year from a projected 5.5 percent this year.  Without private or public financing, a large segment of the
$116 billion economy can’t support jobs, foiling budget-cutting
efforts further by reducing tax collection and boosting spending
on social benefits.  The jobless rate slid to 9.2 percent in the first half of
the year from 9.9 percent in the same period a year ago,
according to International Labor Organization standards,
Ukraine’s state statistics office reported on Sept. 30.  Kyivenergo is counting on mimicking other countries in the
region by relying on outside money.  “Our neighbors and colleagues in Poland managed to achieve
serious success and our starting conditions were quite
similar,” said Sokolovsky. “I see the privatization as an
opportunity for the company to attract investments.”  The Polish government has targeted 25 billion zloty ($8.8
billion) in asset sales this year, of which it has 20 billion
zloty of stakes either sold or committed so far.  President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s seven-month-old
administration is the latest of a string of governments that
have presided over Ukraine’s stop-start privatization program.  Kuchma’s Legacy  Beginning with former President  Leonid Kuchma , who was
accused by the European Union and the U.S. of selling state
properties to family and business partners, investors have grown
wary of sales on concern they aren’t transparent enough, said
 Iryna Piontkivska , an economist at Troika Dialog in Kiev.  “We have to understand that people who came to power and
many politicians of the previous governments made their fortunes
out of privatization,” said Piontkivska.  Kuchma was president from 1994 until January 2005, the
longest-serving head of state since Ukraine declared
independence from the  Soviet Union  in 1991. He denied any
wrongdoing. He was replaced after the so-called Orange
Revolution that swept President  Viktor Yushchenko  and Prime
Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  to power.  Tymoshenko took steps to renationalize some assets after
she took office in 2005 because she deemed they were sold under
questionable conditions or without an open tender.  Squabbles between Yushchenko and Tymoshenko halted other
announced sales of coal mines, energy companies and VAT Odeskyi
Pryportovy Zavod, Ukraine’s second-biggest ammonia producer.  Latest Promise  Since then, Yanukovych’s Cabinet, in office since March,
has failed to move ahead with campaign promises to embark on the
sale of companies including Ukrtelecom, the main phone company
in the country of 46 million people.  Ukraine, which owns almost 93 percent of Ukrtelecom, has
put off its sale for more than a decade because of disputes
between state agencies. The most recent sale was scheduled for
December 2009.  Ukrtelecom lost 456.4 million hryvnia in 2009. The company
agreed in March to defer a payment on a $500 million loan for
three months after its financial condition “deteriorated.” It
needs cash to develop mobile and Internet services as it battles
for clients with rivals including ZAT Kyivstar and Russia’s
largest mobile-phone company,  OAO Mobile TeleSystems .  “Ukrtelecom, as it exists now, doesn’t have many
prospects,” Oleksandr Ryabchenko, chairman of the Ukraine State
Property Fund, said in a Sept. 3 interview. “It should offer
something new, new services.”  Mittal Purchase  Successful sales, like VAT Kryvorizhstal, the country’s
largest steel mill, to  ArcelorMittal  in 2005 for $4.8 billion,
are overshadowed by inaction in other assets.  ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, since has
been waiting to buy coal mines and the  Kryvyi Rih  iron-ore
enriching mill, whose construction was started by the Soviet
Union, Romania, and Slovakia in 1985 and was never completed.  At Kyivenergo, the banging of hammers and sharp hiss of
metal saws echoes around the cavernous heating plant, piercing
the din of the whirring generators. Some workers, dressed in
blue overalls and white hard hats, crawl in and out of a worn-
out boiler, while others were wrestling carpet-sized insulation.  “We have plans for replacement, but the National Energy
Commission has yet to confirm them,” said Vitaliy Beshun, the
plant’s chief engineer. “All the technicians understand that
the equipment is past its usefulness. That size of a task has
never yet been performed in Ukraine.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James M. Gomez  in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net 
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at   htromm@bloomberg.net  