-- Ukraine Inflation Accelerates to Highest Since March on Rising Food Costs
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2010-10-06T22:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/ukraine-inflation-accelerates-to-highest-since-march-on-rising-food-costs.html
Ukraine’s  inflation  rate jumped to
10.5 percent in September, the highest since March, as a summer
drought boosted the cost of food.  Consumer prices climbed for the second month in a row, with
inflation accelerating from 8.3 percent in August, the state 
statistics committee  said late yesterday on its website. The
median estimate of eight economists surveyed by  Bloomberg  was
8.9 percent. On the month, prices rose 2.9 percent.  “Food prices rose as this year’s grain harvest is worse
than a year ago, spurring the cost of food for cattle and
poultry and resulting in higher prices for dairy products, eggs
etc.” said Mykyta Mykhaylychenko, an economist at Kiev-based
Concorde capital investment bank, before the release. “Still,
consumer demand has not revived yet. I expect inflation to total
between 10 percent to 11 percent this year.”  Ukraine, the world’s largest barley exporter, will probably
reap 38 million tons of grain this year, down from 46 million
tons in 2009, because of drought, the Agriculture Ministry
estimates. Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said Sept. 28 the
government is compiling estimates of stockpiles and will decide
this week whether to limit exports to cap domestic prices.  Ukraine faces the risk of faster inflation, First Deputy
Economy Minister  Anatoliy Maksyuta  said yesterday. “The
government is used to using administrative and regulatory tools
to combat inflation,” he said.  The Economy Ministry forecasts inflation will be 12 percent
this year. Ukraine’s inflation rate dropped to 6.8 percent in
July, the lowest in 6 ½ years, before rising the past two
months.  Producer prices, an early indicator of inflation, rose an
annual 19.2 percent in September, after a 23.3 percent increase
the previous month. Factory gate prices rose 0.1 percent from
August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net 
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  