-- Lula Bond Tax Driving Long-Term Yields Up Most Since July: Brazil Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-10-06T21:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/lula-bond-tax-driving-long-term-yields-up-most-since-july-brazil-credit.html
Yields on Brazil’s longer-term bonds
are rising at the fastest pace in three months versus shorter-
term debt as the government boosts taxes on foreign investment
to curb gains in the real, the world’s best-performing currency.  Yields on the 10 percent government bond maturing in 2021
rose four basis points yesterday to 11.91 percent after Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  doubled the duty to 4 percent, while
rates on notes due in 2011 held at 10.69 percent. The yield
difference increased to 122 basis points yesterday from 94 on
Sept. 24, the biggest seven-day jump since July, as investors
anticipated Mantega would take steps to stem the currency’s
gain. The gap narrowed to 119 basis points today.  While purchases from overseas pushed 10-year bond yields
from Mexico to the Philippines down at least 20 basis points in
the past month, Brazil’s costs are rising as the tariff erodes
demand. The higher tax punishes investors who helped President
 Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva finance long-term debt. Foreigners
tripled local bond holdings the past three years to $89 billion,
or 10.1 percent of the debt, according to the central bank.  “This will have damage to Brazil over the medium term,”
said  Jerry Brewin , who manages $2 billion of emerging-market
assets in London at Aviva Investors. “They are now creating
barriers for foreigners.”  Brewin says he is holding onto his Brazilian bonds since
the tax doesn’t apply to existing investors.  Mantega wants to weaken the real and shore up exports by
stemming bond purchases from international investors after the
currency gained 39 percent against the dollar since the end of
2008, the most among major currencies.  Currency Soars  Brazil’s currency jumped to a two-year high of 1.6632 per
dollar yesterday as Japan’s unexpected interest-rate cut and a
weakening dollar added to the allure of emerging-market assets.
The real was down 0.9 percent to 1.6788 today.  The real’s 3.9 percent appreciation this year helped offset
losses for international holders of domestic debt. Brazil’s
local bonds returned 15.4 percent this year, compared with the
12.5 percent increase for the average emerging-market local
currency bonds, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s GBI-EM Broad
Index .  The bond selloff will be limited as investors seeking
higher returns continue to pour money into emerging markets and
as yields in the U.S., Japan and Europe fall to record lows,
according to  Paolo Valle , who co-manages more than $1 billion of
emerging-market assets including real-denominated bonds with
Federated Investors in Pittsburgh.  ‘Distortion’  “You have this wall of inflows, and that’s not going to
change because of” the tax, said  Andressa Tezine , the London-
based vice president of emerging-market fixed-income at
PineBridge Investments, which has about $78 billion under
management. “These palliative, temporary government measures
only add distortion. They don’t prevent money coming into
Brazil.”  With yields at 11.88 percent on the bonds due in 2021
securities today, investors can earn an annual return of 11.18
percent by holding the securities to maturity after paying for
the 4 percent tax, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Yields of bonds with similar-maturities are 2.4 percent in the
 U.S.,  0.85 percent in Japan, 6.15 percent in Mexico and 3.3
percent in China. Brazil’s benchmark interest rate is 10.75
percent, while the target rate in the U.S. is between zero and
0.25 percent.  ‘No Panic Here’  “Certainly, there’s no panic here,” said Valle. “As an
investor, why would I sell the bonds now, and come back to pay
the 4 percent tax if I have nowhere else to go?”  After Brazil implemented a 2 percent foreign investment tax
on the stock and bond markets on Oct. 19, 2009, yields on notes
due in 2017 jumped 32 basis points, or 0.32 percentage point, in
a week to 13.23 percent. The yield ended the year at 13.33
percent.  “The impact right now, if any, is going to be smaller,”
said  Marcela Meirelles , an emerging-market analyst with TCW
Group Inc. in Los Angeles, which manages about $110 billion.
“Rates in Brazil are still really high, period.”  Yields on bonds due in January were unchanged today and
have dropped three basis points in the past month as investors
speculate the central bank to hold its key interest-rate at
10.75 percent through this year.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points to 200,
according to JPMorgan indexes.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps fell three basis
points to 106, according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  The Treasury plans to extend the maturity of government
bonds and turn the notes due in 2017 and 2021 into benchmarks.
International investors held 61 percent of government debt due
in 2017 as of April, up from 50 percent at the end of 2008,
according to the Treasury. They owned 49 percent of the bonds
maturing in 2021.  The tax increase is in line with the government’s strategy
of lengthening the duration of public debt, Treasury Secretary
 Arno Augustin  told reporters yesterday in Brasilia. Brazil
extended the average maturity on its debt to 3.6 years in April
from 2.9 years in 2004, according to the Treasury.  The gap between Brazil’s shorter- and longer-maturity bonds
will widen about 10 basis points more, according to TCW’s
Meirelles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  