-- Climate Change Talks Bogged Down Over Financing, Carbon Limits, U.S. Says
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-10-06T16:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/un-climate-change-talks-make-little-progress-u-s-envoy-pershing-says.html
U.S. and Bolivian negotiators said
climate talks in China are making little progress as issues
including financing and carbon-emissions limits bog down envoys.  Efforts to reduce greenhouse gases in a global treaty to
replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol accord may splinter if no
agreement is reached at the climate summit next month in Cancun,
Mexico,  Jonathan Pershing , the U.S. deputy special envoy on
climate change, said today in Tianjin.  “The consequences of not having an agreement after Cancun
are something to worry about,” Pershing said in a news
briefing. “It may mean that we don’t use this process
exclusively going forward.”  Officials from about 175 governments are meeting in China
to craft a climate treaty and replace emissions targets set by
the Kyoto Protocol that expire at the end of 2012. Talks in
Copenhagen broke down last year over targets for industrialized
nations and verification of output cuts in developing countries.  Bolivia’s delegation chief said little progress is possible
unless developed countries pledge bigger cuts.  “We don’t see any kind of movement from developed
countries to increase the level of emissions reduction,” said
 Pablo Solon , Bolivia’s ambassador to the United Nations. “If we
had a set of commitments that assured developing countries that
the measures will cool the planet, these talks would be moving
very well.”  U.S. Pledge  The U.S. pledge to cut emissions by 17 percent by 2020 from
2005 levels remains a sticking point in the talks, Solon said.
The vow amounts to a 3 percent reduction from 1990 levels, less
than the 5 percent required under the Kyoto Protocol, which the
U.S. didn’t ratify.  Commitments remain insufficient to limit the average
increase in global temperature to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit), a target that was agreed on in Copenhagen last
December.  Delegates from some countries aren’t willing to debate
pledges they made at Copenhagen, meaning they aren’t included in
the negotiating text, Jurgen Lefevere, a climate adviser to the
EU, said in a briefing today.  “We’ve not been able to have that debate and frankly that
really surprises us,” he said. “Mitigation should be one of
the major themes of what we’re discussing and it’s what
countries aren’t prepared to address.”  Last Chance  The Tianjin meeting is the last chance before envoys meet
in Mexico for Nov. 29-Dec. 10 to try to reach an accord that
even the UN has said is unlikely this year. The Copenhagen
summit failed to produce a binding agreement even after leaders
including U.S. President  Barack Obama  flew in to try to hammer
one out.  Delegates this week are negotiating two draft proposals
from a meeting in Bonn in August that need to be narrowed before
Cancun,  Christiana Figueres , executive secretary of the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change, said this week.  “Very few paragraphs” have changed, Bolivia’s Solon said.  Developing nations, including China, can’t accept the
stringent international oversight of their efforts to cut
domestic emissions that developed countries demanded at
Copenhagen,  Xie Zhenhua , vice chairman of the National Reform
Development Commission of China, the country’s top economic
planner, said earlier in the week.  Instead, the U.S. and developed nations should focus on
raising their emissions targets,  Su Wei , China’s chief
negotiator on climate change, said yesterday, according to
Agence France-Presse.  More Transparency  The U.S. and China, the two biggest emitters, have been
deadlocked over issues including pollution-reduction goals and
verification of emissions cuts.  Pershing said the U.S. was trying to reach a compromise
with developing nations on monitoring, reporting and
verification with less stringent requirements for poorer
countries. More advanced countries like China should accept a
higher standard, he said.  “There’s no question for Brazil, for an India or for a
China that they could implement an MRV program and be
transparent,” Pershing said. “It makes sense for countries
with the capacity, who make major contributions to emissions
globally and have resources to implement programs.”  Negotiations aren’t progressing because developing nations
and developed nations are pitted against each other along an
artificial divide that no longer makes sense, Pershing said.
Some issues are being “re-litigated” that were supposed to be
resolved at Copenhagen, he said, without giving details.  “My own view is that it could work, but it’s going to
require a bit more fruitful discussion than we’ve had the last
few days,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 