-- Hungary's Forint Weakens After Rally on Speculation Currency Overbought
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-06T15:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/hungary-s-forint-weakens-after-rally-on-speculation-currency-overbought.html
The Hungarian forint weakened
following the biggest daily advance in more than two months as
technical analysis used by traders signaled the currency was
overbought.  The forint depreciated 0.4 percent to 271.30 per euro as of
5:22 p.m. in Budapest. The currency rallied 1.3 percent
yesterday, the most since July 27. The yield on the country’s
five-year bonds rose 6 basis point to 6.47 percent after a four-
day rally pushed it down 21 basis points to the lowest level
since May 13 yesterday.  The currency’s 14-day relative strength index rose to 76.8
yesterday and stayed above 70 for a fourth day today, a
technical level used by traders to determine whether a currency
is overbought versus the euro. The RSI identifies possible
turning points in indexes or securities by measuring the degree
that gains and losses outpace each other in a given time period.
A reading higher than 70 signals a security may decline.  “The performance of forint has been explosive so we are
having a bit of technical correction,” said  Luis Costa , an
emerging-market strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “This
should be taken a pause for east European currencies although
the general context for the region is still positive.”  The forint has been the world’s best-performing currency
since Sept. 8, when the Hungarian cabinet committed to a deficit
of no more than 3 percent of gross domestic product. The move
marked a U-turn in government policy after Hungary told the
International Monetary Fund and Europe Union it could not meet
deficit targets set under a 20 billion-euro ($27.6 billion)
bailout in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  