-- Hungary Red Sludge Threatens Danube, Commission Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2010-10-06T17:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/hungary-red-sludge-threatens-danube-commission-says.html
Hungary’s toxic-sludge spill, which
killed four and injured more than 100 people, triggered
environmental warnings on the Danube River and may threaten
neighboring countries, according to the  International Commission
for the Protection of the Danube .  “This is what you call a significant event,” Philip
Weller, the commission’s executive secretary, said in a
telephone interview from Brussels today. “It’s a potential
threat to neighboring countries.”  More than 1 million cubic meters (35 million cubic feet) of
the sludge spilled yesterday after a  Magyar Aluminium Zrt. 
reservoir burst 160 kilometers (100 miles) southwest of
Budapest. The red-colored sludge, a byproduct of alumina
production, flooded Devecser, Hungary and two nearby villages.  The ICPD’s early warning alarm system was triggered, Weller
said, which means that factories and towns along the Danube may
have to close water intake from the river. The Vienna-based
commission, which manages the river’s waterways, hasn’t received
details of the spill from Hungarian authorities, Weller said.  Zoltan Illes , a state secretary for the environment in
Hungary, called the accident an “ecological disaster” that is
“unprecedented” in the world, according to MTI news service.  River Spill  Toxic alkaline material spilled into the river Marcal, part
of the Danube’s tributary system, where gypsum is being used to
neutralize it, Gyorgyi Tottos, a spokeswoman for Hungary’s
emergency services department said.  Following the Marcal, the contamination would reach the
Danube at Gyor, about halfway between Vienna and Budapest. The
river reaches Croatia about 250 kilometers (155 miles) south of
the Hungarian capital, then travels through Serbia, Bulgaria,
Moldova, Ukraine and Romania before reaching the Black Sea.  Hungarian authorities are building streambed barriers to
slow the water flow and hold the sludge in the Marcal, the
emergency services department said on its website today.  “Our hope is that we’ll be able to contain this and it
won’t get to the Danube,” Interior Minister  Sandor Pinter  said
at a press conference in Budapest today.  The sludge will probably do further damage to the area’s
plant and wildlife, which includes deer, foxes, rabbits and wild
boars, according to WWF Hungary, an environmental group. The
effects may be longer lasting than a cyanide spill into the
Tisza river from a gold mine in Romania in 2000, it said in an
e-mailed statement today.  ‘Serious Poisoning’  “Some animals and plants die instantly, some will face the
consequences of serious poisoning in the longer term as the
heavy metals of the red mud accumulate in their bodies,” Gabor
Figeczky, the head of  WWF Hungary , said in the statement.
“However, there is still no information about the concentration
of heavy metals.”  The cyanide pollution destroyed all aquatic life in the
river Tisza, except for vertebrates, according to WWF. The dead
fish stock in the Marcal suggests that most aquatic animals will
die there as well, according to the press release.  Officials are also working to determine who is responsible
for the spill, according to Pinter, who oversees the country’s
police force.  “There was no natural disaster in the area,” he said.
“If there was no natural disaster, then we have to look for
human responsibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Tirone  at   jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  