-- Unit Trust's Gold Fund Assets Surge as Investors Seek Wealth Protection
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-10-06T05:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/unit-trust-s-gold-fund-assets-surge-as-investors-seek-wealth-protection.html
UTI Asset Management Co., manager of
India’s second-largest gold-backed fund, said assets jumped 65
percent as such products become more popular with investors
seeking to diversify their portfolios and prices surged.  The value of the holdings in the fund reached 4.44 billion
rupees ($100 million) on Sept. 30, from 2.69 billion rupees a
year earlier,  Swati Kulkarni , who helps manage 78 billion rupees
at the Mumbai-based money manager, said in a phone interview.  Gold surged to a record today as the dollar fell, lifting
demand for precious metals as alternative assets. In India, the
top buyer, bullion-backed funds began trading in 2007 and their
assets almost tripled at the end of Aug. 30, from a year earlier,
according to data from the  Association of Mutual Funds in India .  “It’s not just the gold-price movement that is driving up
assets, its fresh inflows too,” Kulkarni said yesterday. “In
crisis times, people prefer hard assets.”  Investment demand for the yellow metal in India more than
tripled to 92.5 tons in the six months ended June 30 from 25.4
tons a year ago, the World Gold Council said in August. Three of
the nine gold-backed funds in the country were introduced this
year, data on the Bloomberg show.  “In the last one year, a lot of new funds have come into
this space,” said Kulkarni. “That shows as an industry we
think there is a potential for gold assets to grow.”  Exchange-traded funds have become popular worldwide since
their creation in 1993 as they widened investors’ access to
different type of assets. Gold ETFs allow investors to trade
bullion without taking physical delivery of it.  Holdings  in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest exchange-
traded fund backed by the metal, were unchanged at 1,301.91
metric tons yesterday, according to company’s website. The
assets expanded to a record 1,320.44 tons in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net  