-- Turkey May Ease Pace of Government Asset Sales on Financing, Aksu Says
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2010-10-06T07:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/turkey-may-ease-pace-of-government-asset-sales-on-financing-aksu-says.html
Turkey may slow the pace of sales of
government assets after exceeding its target for the year and
because financers are asking for more time to prepare deals, the
head of the sales agency said.  “We’re constantly talking to investors and financers,
they’re still putting together lending after the high prices at
recent auctions and they favor not packing the schedule,”  Ahmet Aksu , acting head of the asset sales agency in Ankara, told
reporters yesterday.  The agency sold four electricity grids on Aug. 9 for a
total of $5.8 billion, or 83 percent of the revenue goal for the
entire year. Including earlier sales of networks and land, the
agency has comfortably achieved its target and had “an
extremely good year,” Aksu said.  Turkey is selling regional electricity distribution
networks to boost investment in the power industry and help
reduce debt. Demand for electricity will probably rise 7 percent
annually in the years ahead,  Zafer Kurtul , chief executive of
 Haci Omer Sabanci  Holding AS, the country’s second-biggest
industrial group, said yesterday.  The agency will sell three more grids on Nov. 24. The
networks on the Asian side of Istanbul, in Antalya and in Adana
are all “good regions in terms of the number of subscribers and
the amount of power theft, so investors can recover their money
quickly,” Aksu said. The agency will ask the winning bidders to
pay the price in full, without instalments, he said.  Power Plants  The agency also aims to complete the handover of 50 small
hydroelectric power producers this year and may this month start
a sale of shares in the 1,120 megawatt gas-powered electricity
plant at Hamitabat in central Turkey, Aksu said.  Sales of operating rights for roads and bridges and
secondary share offers in state-owned companies are ready to be
launched whenever the government gives the order, Aksu said. An
auction of the National Lottery “needs a little more
preparation.”  The agency is ready to invite bids for the Galataport
cruise port facilities in central Istanbul, perhaps by the end
of this year or the start of next year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Berat Meric  in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net  