-- Van Cleef’s $7.7 Million Pink Diamond Ring Shows Asian Demand
-- B y   A d a m   M a j e n d i e
-- 2010-10-06T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/van-cleef-pink-diamond-fetches-7-7-million-as-asians-boost-record-auction.html
A 6.43-carat pink diamond set in a
 Van Cleef & Arpels  ring sold for HK$60 million ($7.7 million) in
a record Hong Kong jewelry auction for Sotheby’s as wealthy
Asian buyers splurged on gems, pearls and jade.  The ring, with a presale high estimate of HK$55 million
before commission, was one of 390 lots including a pair of
matched, unset 10.88-carat round white diamonds and a diamond-
encrusted butterfly brooch that once belonged to Princess Mary,
daughter of Britain’s King George V.  The HK$423 million sale was part of New York-based
Sotheby’s autumn week of auctions in Hong Kong that help to
indicate to collectors and dealers the strength of demand for
luxury goods in Asia. Of the jewelry lots, 302, or 77 percent
sold.  The 19th-century butterfly brooch, from the collection of
the late Countess of Harewood, contains almost 47 carats total
weight in diamonds and sold for HK$1.82 million, against a high
estimate of HK$1.2 million. The flawless matched diamonds set a
per-carat record for similar round stones, fetching HK$37.6
million.  In the morning session,  Sotheby’s  sold HK$55.7 million of
watches, its highest total for the category, as Asian and
European collectors vied for timepieces by Greubel Forsey,
Richard Mille, Audemars Piguet and Patek Philippe.  The most expensive was a Greubel Forsey platinum double
tourbillon wristwatch with a mother-of-pearl dial, which sold
for HK$2.54 million, close to its top estimate.  Jade Seal  This week’s sales by New York-based  Sotheby’s  at the  Hong
Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre  have so far auctioned off
wines, modern and contemporary art, traditional Chinese
paintings, as well as the watches and jewelry. The final two
days cover the Chinese ceramics and antiques, including a milky-
white jade seal of China’s 18th-century Qianlong emperor, carved
with dragons and inscribed “ruler who believes in heaven.”  On Oct. 5, Fu Baoshi’s “Court Ladies,” depicting a Tang
dynasty court woman and her maid fetched HK$33.1 million, the
top lot in a HK$407.3 million sale of Chinese ink paintings.  The previous day, a Shanghai museum paid an artist record
of HK$52.18 million for  Zhang Xiaogang ’s 1992 “Chapter of a New
Century -- Birth of the People’s Republic of China II,” as the
auction house took in a total of HK$471 million for modern and
contemporary Asian art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Majendie  in Hong Kong at  amajendie@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 