-- Vanguard Cuts Low-Fee Minimums for 2 Million Fund Investors
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-10-06T19:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/vanguard-group-cuts-low-fee-minimums-for-2-million-mutual-fund-investors.html
Vanguard Group Inc. cut fees for
almost 2 million investors as it seeks to attract clients from
higher-cost competitors and extend its lead as the largest U.S.
mutual-fund company by assets.  Vanguard reduced the minimum investment required to get the
lowest fees for 52 funds, the Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based
company said today in a statement. The changes will cut fees on
$90 billion of assets by about $100 million annually, Rebecca
Katz, a Vanguard spokeswoman, said today in an interview.  Vanguard this year unseated Fidelity Investments as the
biggest mutual-fund company by assets, largely on deposits made
by investors into low-cost index funds. Assets in even cheaper
exchange-traded funds have also surged. Vanguard, which
popularized passive investing under founder  John Bogle , manages
$764 billion, or about 58 percent of its assets, in index funds,
according to Katz.  “It certainly puts some heat on Fidelity,”  Dan Wiener ,
editor of Independent Adviser for Vanguard Investors, a New
York-based newsletter, said in an interview. Indexing “is
really the new funds battleground.”  Fidelity has sought to win clients from Vanguard, saying on
its website that its Spartan series index funds are cheaper,
with expense ratios of 0.1 percent, when matched against
Vanguard equivalents and industry averages.  Vanguard clients investing at least $10,000 in some similar
funds saw their expense ratios fall today to 0.07 percent from
0.15 percent. Previously, the fee applied only to Vanguard
investors with at least $100,000 in a fund.  Fidelity clients must invest $100,000 to qualify for
expense ratios of 0.07 percent in Spartan funds.  ‘Competitive Pricing’  “Fidelity retail mutual funds consistently rank against
their Morningstar peers as among the lowest-priced mutual
funds,”  Vincent Loporchio , a Fidelity spokesman, said in an e-
mail. “We have always made it a top priority to offer our
customers competitive pricing and outstanding value.”  Passively managed funds account for 20 percent of all U.S.
equity funds, up from 15 percent in 2000, according to research
firm Morningstar Inc. in Chicago.  “In an environment when bonds yields are less than 3
percent and equity returns, broadly, are in the single digits,
at best, controlling costs are becoming more crucial to
investment success,” Morningstar analyst  Dan Culloton  said.  Vanguard also reduced the low-fee threshold to $50,000 for
actively managed funds.  Net Deposits  Its funds pulled in an estimated $48.8 billion in net
deposits this year through August, according to Morningstar.
That compares with net withdrawals at its two largest rivals,
Los Angeles-based Capital Group Cos., manager of the American
Funds, and Fidelity Investments of Boston.  Vanguard ETFs have drawn a net $22.6 billion this year to
reach $113 billion, compared with $13.1 billion attracted by
BlackRock, whose iShares ETF series has nearly three times as
much in assets as Vanguard ETFs.  The average asset-weighted expense ratio for Vanguard’s
lowest-priced mutual fund share class is 0.16 percent, compared
with 0.17 percent for its exchange-traded funds. Investors in
the next cheapest share class of mutual funds pay an average
0.27 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  