-- Las Vegas Monorail, AbitibiBowater, Black Crow, Broadstripe: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-06T11:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/vegas-monorail-abitibi-black-crow-broadstripe-bankruptcy.html
Las Vegas Monorail Co.  said there are
discussions with first-tier bondholders on what it hopes will be
a consensual reorganization plan.  The Monorail, which winds its way behind casinos on the
eastern side of the Las Vegas Strip, filed a proposed Chapter 11
plan in August. The senior bondholders, owed $451 million,
didn’t like the plan to give them notes totaling $18.5 million
for their secured and deficiency claims.  Absent settlement, Monorail and bondholders have several
court dates during the next month. On Oct. 12, Monorail will
argue a motion for an extension of the exclusive right to
propose a plan until Oct. 18.  On Nov. 9, the bondholders will ask the bankruptcy judge in
Las Vegas to end Monorail’s exclusive plan proposal rights. A
hearing for approval of Monorail’s disclosure statement is on
the calendar for Nov. 17.  Under Monorail’s plan, unsecured creditors, with claims
totaling as much as $175,000, would be in a separate class and
share $175,000 cash. The bondholders believe that putting
general creditors into a separate class is so-called
gerrymandering to insure that at least one class will vote in
favor of the plan. Without one class voting “yes,” bankruptcy
law prohibits cramming down on the first-tier debt.  Holders of $159 million in second-tier bonds and $48.5
million in third-tier bonds would receive nothing from the
Monorail’s plan.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Bruce A. Markell  ruled in April that
Monorail isn’t a municipality and therefore can reorganize in
Chapter 11. For a discussion of Markell’s ruling, click here for
the April 27 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Monorail, a nonprofit corporation, began operation in 2004.
It built a 3.9-mile driverless transportation system running
behind the Las Vegas Strip to the convention center. Revenue was
never enough to service debt.  Making seven stops, the monorail takes 15 minutes for the
entire trip. It winds behind hotels and casinos on the east side
of the Strip. There were plans for extending the monorail to the
airport.  The case is In re Las Vegas Monorail Co., 10-10464, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  Statistics  Business Filings Down, Individuals’ Up in September  Commercial and Chapter 11 bankruptcy filings declined again
in September compared with the year before. Conversely, total
bankruptcies, comprising mostly individual filings, are on pace
to top 2009 by more than 10 percent.  Through September, there were almost 1.2 million total
bankruptcies, according to data compiled from court records by
 Automated Access to Court Electronic Records . If the trend
continues, 2010 will see about 1.6 million bankruptcies, up from
1.45 million in 2009. Last year’s bankruptcies represented a 32
percent increase from 2008.  In contrast with the increase in individual filings,
bankruptcies by businesses continue to trail 2009, according to
AACER, a service of Oklahoma City-based Jupiter ESources LLC.
There were about 7,000 commercial filings in September, 4.3
percent less than the same month in 2009. The approximately
65,400 business filings so far this year are on course to trail
the almost 90,000 in 2009 by 2.8 percent.  Chapter 11 filings also have fallen from last year. With
some 1,200 new Chapter 11 cases in September, the year is headed
toward an 8 percent decline from the approximately 15,200
business reorganizations in 2009. In total, September had almost
134,000 bankruptcy filings by individuals and businesses.  Bankruptcy filings remain behind the record 2.1 million in
2005, when 630,000 Americans sought protection from creditors in
the two weeks before revisions to federal bankruptcy laws became
effective in October of that year. The changes made it more
difficult for individuals to erase debt.  Updates  Truvo, Junior Noteholders Settle on Plan Confirmation  Truvo Luxemburg Sarl, a Belgium-based international
publisher of directories, settled with the creditors’ committee
and holders of high-yield notes to head off opposition to
approval of the reorganization plan at a confirmation hearing
that would have been held today.  Instead, today’s hearing will authorize Truvo to send
supplemental disclosure materials to senior secured creditors
who are entitled to vote again. Approval of the revised plan
appears all but assured because holders of more than two-thirds
of the senior debt agreed to support the settlement. Holders of
56 percent of the high-yield notes are also in agreement, the
company said in a statement.  Truvo wants the confirmation hearing for approval of the
revised plan to take place on Oct. 26, so that the plan can be
implemented in November.  Under the prior version of the plan, holders of the 778
million euros ($1.08 billion) of first-priority senior debt were
to have a recovery of 67.2 percent to 87.5 percent. Taking into
account the give-up to the second-lien debt under the
settlement, the recovery will decline by 0.6 percent to 1.7
percent.  Under the original plan, the junior noteholders, owed 595
million euros, were to have 15 million euros in cash, plus
warrants for 14 percent of the equity. The settlement increases
the cash by 5 million euros and the warrants to 20 percent. The
recovery for junior creditors is estimated to increase by 1
percent to 2.4 percent, for a recovery between 3.8 percent and
7.8 percent.  For a summary of the prior version of the plan and the
arguments on both sides, click here for the Aug. 30 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  The revised plan will reduce Truvo’s debt from 1.4 billion
euros to 475 million euros, the company said in a statement.  Truvo’s petition listed assets for 1.04 billion euros
against liabilities totaling 1.67 billion euros. It is the
leading directory publisher in Belgium, Ireland and Romania.
Through a joint venture, Truvo is the leading directory
publisher in Portugal.  The case is In re Truvo USA LLC, 10-13513, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Abitibi Has $3.2 Million August Net; Hearing on Plan Tomorrow  AbitibiBowater Inc. , the largest newsprint maker in North
America, reported $3.18 million of net income in August on sales
of $396.3 million. The gross profit and operating income in the
month were $19.8 million and $5 million, respectively.  Abitibi was authorized this week by the bankruptcy judge to
sell 16 acres and a former paper-coating plant in Covington,
Tennessee, to True Partners Financial Services LLC for $4.6
million.  Abitibi returns to bankruptcy court tomorrow for another
effort to persuade the judge to approve the reorganization plan
by signing a confirmation order. For details on Abitibi’s plan
and disclosure statement, click here to read the July 29
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The company was formed in October 2007 by a merger between
Montreal-based Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Greenville, South
Carolina-based Bowater Inc. Abitibi is a producer of newsprint,
uncoated mechanical paper, and lumber. Bowater also makes
newsprint along with papers, bleached kraft pulp, and lumber.  The Montreal-based company began reorganizing with 24 pulp
and paper mills plus 30 wood-product plants. Revenue in 2008 was
$6.8 billion. In Chapter 11 petitions filed in April 2009, the
combined AbitibiBowater companies listed assets of $9.9 billion
and debt totaling $8.8 billion as of September 2008.  The case is AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Black Crow Sues for Subordination of Debt to GECC  Black Crow Media Group LLC , a closely held owner of 22
radio stations, launched a new attack in its ongoing battles
with  General Electric Capital Corp ., the secured lender owed
$38.9 million at the outset of the reorganization in January.  Relying on what it called “misconduct” by GECC before and
during the Chapter 11 case, Black Crow filed a lawsuit this week
asking the bankruptcy judge in Jacksonville, Florida, to
subordinate the lenders’ claim and prevent GECC from voting on a
reorganization plan. Black Crow also wants damages for abuse of
legal processes by Stamford, Connecticut-based GECC.  The suit by Black Crow comes after a complaint GECC filed
in late August asking the bankruptcy judge to declare that
substantive consolidation of all the companies is improper.
According to GECC, Black Crow wants creditors to have claims
against one pot of assets rather than against the individual
companies obligated on the debts.  The bankruptcy judge said in July that Black Crow’s
exclusive right to propose a plan wouldn’t be extended beyond
Nov. 8 “unless truly extraordinary circumstances occur which
could not have been reasonably anticipated.” In March, Black
Crow defeated a motion by GECC to dismiss the case or allow
foreclosure.  Black Crow filed for Chapter 11 protection in January, two
days before a hearing in U.S. district court where GECC was
seeking appointment of a receiver following default on term
loans and a revolving credit.  Black Crow’s stations are in five markets in Florida,
Alabama, Georgia and Tennessee. In addition to the GECC debt,
another $6 million is owing to unsecured creditors. Daytona
Beach, Florida-based Black Crow had $12.9 million of revenue in
2009, a 23 percent decline from 2008.  The case is In re Black Crow Media Group LLC, 10-00172,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville).  Broadstripe Posts August Net Loss of $3 Million  Broadstripe LLC, a St. Louis-based broadband cable
operator, reported a $3.02 million net loss in August on revenue
of $7.63 million. For the month, depreciation and amortization
was $2.29 million. Interest expense was $1.84 million. The
balance sheet had $4.45 million in cash at the end of August,
compared with $5.02 million at the end of July.  Any creditor is at liberty to file a reorganization plan
because Broadstripe has been in Chapter 11 more than 18 months.
Broadstripe is caught in the middle of a dispute between secured
creditors and the unsecured creditors’ committee.  The creditors’ committee says secured lenders’ claims
should be subordinated or recharacterized as equity. Also
inhibiting confirmation of a plan are two claims by rival cable
operators totaling almost $160 million. The competitors base
their claims on Broadstripe’s alleged failures to complete asset
purchase agreements.  Broadstripe filed a reorganization plan in January 2009
based on an agreement from before the Chapter 11 filing with
holders of the first- and second-lien debt. When the
reorganization began, Broadstripe had 93,000 customers in
Maryland, Michigan, Washington State and Oregon. It was created
through four acquisitions in 1998 and 1999 and filed for Chapter
11 reorganization in January 2009.  The case is In re Broadstripe LLC, 09-10006, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Daily Podcast  Lehman-Barclays Suit, Tousa Fraud, Third-Party Releases: Audio  Tough choices facing the bankruptcy judge in the lawsuit by
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  against  Barclays Plc , a possible
fraudulent transfer judgment against directors of homebuilder
 Tousa Inc. , and a template for permissible third-party releases
in New York-based reorganizations are covered in the new
bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  New Filing  Savannah Festival Outlet Center Files in Hometown  The owner of the  Savannah Festival Outlet Center  filed for
Chapter 11 protection on Oct. 4 in its hometown of Savannah,
Georgia.  The center owes $10.1 million on the first mortgage and
$600,000 on a second-lien debt. The center, with more than 20
stores, is located on Gateway Boulevard, just off exit 94 on
Interstate 95.  Tenants include Carter’s, General Nutrition Center, Van
Heusen, Reebok, Dress Barn and OshKosh B’gosh, according to the
web site.  The petition said assets and debt both exceed $10 million.  The case is In re Savannah Outlet Shoppes LLC, 10-42135,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Georgia (Savannah).  Watch List  Alabama County Commission Head Now Open to Bankruptcy  The president of the  Jefferson County  Commission changed
her stance and now says she will not rule out a municipal
Chapter 9 bankruptcy for the Alabama county.  She also said that the appointment of receiver for the
water system will slow negotiations while lenders wait to see
how much the receiver will raise rates.  To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Advance Sheets  Dreier Alimony Dispute Remains in Bankruptcy Court  A bankruptcy court can interpret an agreement from a
matrimonial case with the same facility as the divorce court,
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Stuart M. Bernstein  ruled on Oct. 4 in the
bankruptcy of  Marc Dreier , the lawyer who turned the firm that
bore his name into a $400 million Ponzi scheme.  Dreier and his wife separated in 2003, making a settlement
at the time calling for the payment of alimony. The former wife
served a notice of default in December 2008, contending $7.1
million in alimony was accelerated. The notice came before an
involuntary petition was filed against Dreier in January 2009.  The former wife contends that the entire $7.1 million is a
first priority debt in her former husband’s bankruptcy. If she’s
correct, her alimony claim would come ahead of unsecured
creditors. Dreier’s trustee objected.  The former wife filed papers asking Bernstein to rule that
the state matrimonial court was the proper forum to decide
whether the debt was accelerated. Bernstein disagreed and denied
the wife’s motion.  Bernstein said that the wife is free to enforce her alimony
claim in state court from property that isn’t part of the
bankrupt estate. With Dreier in prison for 20 years and not
earning income, the former wife said the bankruptcy court is the
only source of recovery. Because the former wife wanted to
collect alimony from the bankrupt estate, Bernstein said the so-
called automatic stay applies and precludes her from taking
action in state court.  Bernstein said he was “equally well-suited to interpret”
the settlement agreement and decide if the debt was accelerated.
He also ruled it was proper for the dispute to be decided in
bankruptcy court on account of the “significant impact” it
would have on the bankruptcy case.  To read Bernstein’s opinion, click here.  Dreier pleaded guilty in May 2009 to charges of money
laundering, conspiracy, securities fraud and wire fraud in a
scheme that cost victims $400 million, prosecutors alleged. He
was also ordered to make $387 million in restitution.  The firm he founded once had 250 lawyers. It is being
liquidated in a Chapter 11 case begun in December 2008. Dreier
himself is in a Chapter 7 liquidation where a trustee was
appointed automatically.  Dreier’s individual Chapter 7 case is 09-10371, and the
Chapter 11 case for the firm is In re Dreier LLP, 08-15051, both
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Dreier, 08-mag-2676,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
The civil case is SEC v. Dreier, 08-cv-10617.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 