-- Venture Minerals Says Market Can Sustain Record Tin Prices on High Demand
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-10-06T04:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/venture-minerals-says-market-can-sustain-record-tin-prices-on-high-demand.html
Venture Minerals Ltd. , building a tin
mine in Australia’s Tasmania state, said shortages that helped
push prices of the metal to a record today will endure for at
least five years because of a dearth of new projects.  “The market can handle these sorts of prices,” Managing
Director  Hamish Halliday  said in an interview in Perth. “The
catch-up that’s required on the exploration side is quite vast.
You’ve had virtually no greenfield exploration for a quarter of
a century. There will be a major supply gap going forward.”  Tin climbed 55 percent this year, the most of the six main
metals on the London Metal Exchange, as reduced stockpiles and
mining disruptions heightened speculation supplies won’t be
adequate. Demand for the metal, mainly used to solder metals
together in electrical gadgets such as BlackBerry phones, is
expected to increase 13 percent this year, according to MF
Global analyst  Edward Meir .  “There’s more solder-dominated demand which can handle
higher prices, whereas in foodstuff containerization,
substitution kicks in earlier when prices rise,” Halliday said
in yesterday’s interview. “Although it’s still used to make tin
cans, it’s effectively transformed from an old-world metal into
a new-world metal.”  Tin for three-month delivery rose as much as 1.3 percent to
$26,251 a metric ton as of 12:16 p.m. in Singapore.  Production in China, the world’s largest producer, may be
restricted through the end of the year because of limitations on
power, tin industry group  ITRI Ltd.  said on Sept. 29. In August,
shipments from Indonesia, the second-largest producer, dropped
to 7,974 tons from 8,870 tons in July.  Mt Lindsay  Prices have also been bolstered by disruptions to
production in the Democratic Republic of Congo and Indonesia.  “Demand is rising across the board,” Halliday said. “A
lot of the Chinese operations have relatively high costs.
Indonesia has had a dramatic drop in production since 2005.
There’s a broad play on securing supply and there’s been a
general rundown in LME stockpiles due to pure demand.”  Venture’s  Mt Lindsay  tin and tungsten project in Tasmania,
an island state off Australia’s southeast coast, is expected to
start operating in 2013’s first half, Halliday said. A pre-
feasibility study will be completed next month, with the project
initially estimated to cost A$130 million ($126 million). It has
an initial resource base of 100,000 tons of tin and tungsten.  Trading in Venture was halted yesterday on the Australian
stock exchange ahead of a statement on capital raising, due
latest by the start of trading tomorrow. Halliday declined to
discuss the fundraising. The stock closed 7 percent higher on
Oct. 4 at 53.5 cents, giving the Perth-based company a market
value of A$90 million, up 45 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  