-- China Maritime Claims to Dominate Defense Talks Amid Japan, Vietnam Spats
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-10-07T00:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/vietnam-asks-china-to-release-boat-with-nine-fishermen-seized-in-september.html
China’s role in territorial flare-ups
in waters more than 1,000 miles apart will likely dominate next
week’s gathering of Asia-Pacific defense ministers as they seek
to protect shipping lanes vital to world trade.  Vietnam, host of the Oct. 12 meeting, this week urged China
to release a fishing boat and crew detained close to islands
claimed by several neighboring countries. Two Chinese patrol
boats yesterday withdrew from disputed seas administered by
Japan a month after a maritime collision sparked a diplomatic
feud between Asia’s two largest economies.  China has resisted committing to a code of conduct for
disputed regional waters and is expanding its navy to project
power beyond its borders, according to an August Defense
Department  report.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  will be
at next week’s meetings in Hanoi together with his Chinese
counterpart  Liang Guanglie , three months after Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  called sovereignty issues in the South
China Sea a “diplomatic priority.”  “It’s really maritime security issues that the U.S. and
its allies are keen on, as that’s where the irritations are
occurring,” said  Carlyle A. Thayer , professor of politics at
the Australian Defense Force Academy in Canberra. “Every
encounter now is a question mark.”  Failure to establish rules for vessels passing through
disputed waters risks naval clashes that could disrupt the flow
of goods between the region’s largest economies. In the South
China Sea alone, China, Taiwan, Vietnam, Malaysia, the
Philippines and Brunei hold disputing claims to islands.  One-On-One  Gates will probably meet Liang one-on-one at the defense
gathering, his first meeting with a Chinese military leader in
almost a year, Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell  said Oct. 5.
China doesn’t plan to address South China Sea conflicts during
the talks, state-run Xinhua news cited Guan Youfei, deputy
director of Foreign Affairs Office of China’s Defense Ministry,
as saying yesterday.  The U.S. is concerned about China’s “tremendous
investment” in maritime forces and “very aggressive” behavior
off its East Coast, Admiral  Mike Mullen , chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff and President  Barack Obama ’s top military
adviser, told reporters on Sept. 29.  China announced in March it would spend 532.1 billion yuan
($79.6 billion) on defense this year; the Pentagon estimates
that actual Chinese military spending is twice that amount. The
Pentagon has requested a total of $708 billion for its
operations, including money for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan,
for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1.  Deterring U.S.  China’s investment in nuclear-powered submarines, anti-ship
ballistic missiles and targeting capabilities is aimed mostly at
deterring the U.S. in a potential conflict with Taiwan, the
Pentagon said in an August report.  Jiang Yu , a spokeswoman at
China’s Foreign Ministry, called the report “absurd.’  “China’s development is peaceful and cooperative,” Jiang
 told reporters  Sept. 28 in response to a question about whether
its recent spat with Japan might unsettle Southeast Asian
countries. “We always stand for peaceful settlement of disputes
through bilateral consultations.”  Vietnam’s demand yesterday that China “immediately” and
“unconditionally” release the fishing boat was followed by a
Nikkei newspaper report that regional leaders would pressure
China on its conduct at the security meeting. The defense
ministers may agree to cooperate on a maritime-safety plan, the
Japanese daily reported yesterday, citing a draft statement.  Fishermen’s Release  China has told the Vietnamese it won’t release the
fishermen until they pay a fine for fishing with explosives,
Vietnam’s government said in a statement on its website
yesterday. Last month, the Chinese government demanded that
Japan immediately release a fishing boat captain detained in
disputed waters after his boat collided with two Japanese coast
guard vessels. Japan freed the captain on Sept. 24.  “China was rising peacefully before, but its increasing
maritime activities in the past couple of years have raised the
concern of neighboring countries,” said  Hitoshi Tanaka , a
former diplomat and now a senior fellow at the  Japan Center for
International Exchange  in Tokyo. “We need to use pressure to
encourage China to behave constructively within the
international community.”  The  South China Sea  covers 3.5 million square kilometers
(1.4 million square miles) stretching from Singapore to the
Straits of Taiwan. China and Vietnam hold the largest claims to
the waters, which contain fisheries and oil and gas reserves.  Military Build-Up  Members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations have
also boosted military spending, to $25.7 billion in total last
year, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research
Institute. Vietnam led Southeast Asia in  upgrading its military 
with purchases of fighter jets, surface-to-air missiles,
warships and diesel-powered submarines in the past five years.  Indonesia plans to purchase 180 Russian Sukhoi fighter jets
and an unspecified number of F-16 warplanes from Lockheed Martin
Corp., state-run Antara news agency said Sept. 28, citing
Defense Minister  Purnomo Yusigiantoro .  Boeing Co.  is bidding for
an order of 126 fighter jets from India.  China, Taiwan, Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines and
Brunei hold claims to islands in the South China Sea. At a Sept.
24 summit, Obama and Asean leaders “reaffirmed the importance
of regional peace and stability, maritime security, unimpeded
commerce, and freedom of navigation,” according to a  statement .  “As an economic superpower, inevitably China’s role in
other areas -- security, military, otherwise -- is going to have
to grow,” Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  told the
Council on Foreign Relations in New York on the same day.
“We’ve got two powerful friends, and we hope they get on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  