-- Randy Moss Rejoins Minnesota Vikings in Trade From New England Patriots
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-10-06T16:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/vikings-to-get-randy-moss-from-patriots-for-third-round-pick-espn-reports.html
Randy Moss  returned to the Minnesota
Vikings, giving quarterback  Brett Favre  an All-Pro target after
injuries decimated the team’s receivers.  Moss, whose 151 touchdown catches are second to  Jerry Rice ’s 197 in National Football League history, was sent to the
Vikings from the New England Patriots for an undisclosed draft
pick, both teams said in news releases. The pick is a 2011
third-rounder, several news organizations including ESPN
reported. Moss started his NFL career in Minnesota and made
headlines for both pass catching and controversial actions.  “In this business, there are complex and often difficult
decisions, but it is my responsibility to make them based on
what I feel is best for our football team, in both the short
term and long term,” Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  said in a
statement. “Consistent with my dealings with Randy from the day
we acquired him through our conversation this morning, it has
been honest, thoughtful and with great mutual respect.”  The 33-year-old Moss gives the Vikings a healthy wide
receiver with big-play ability.  Sidney Rice  will miss at least
two more weeks of the season with a hip injury and  Percy Harvin 
is struggling with migraine headaches.  The Vikings are 1-2 this season and play the New York Jets
in a nationally televised game Oct. 11. Moss made a leaping,
one-handed touchdown catch in a 28-14 loss to the Jets on Sept.
19, New England’s lone defeat in four games.  First Round  A four-time All-Pro selection, Moss was a first-round draft
pick by the Vikings in 1998. He played his first seven seasons
in Minnesota, catching 574 passes for 9,142 yards and 90
touchdowns, all of which trail only  Cris Carter  in franchise
history.  “He is a tremendous competitor and was an integral member
of the Vikings’ organization from 1998-2004,” Vikings coach
 Brad Childress  said in a statement. “Once again, ownership was
completely supportive of our efforts to add a valuable football
player to our team.”  Moss also found trouble off the field and on. In 2002, he
pleaded guilty to careless driving and obstructing traffic after
police said he used his car to push a traffic-control officer
while making an illegal left turn, with marijuana found in the
vehicle. In a 2004 game, he was accused of quitting on his team
after walking off the field and into the locker room with two
seconds left on the clock. In 2005, he was fined $10,000 by the
NFL for pretending to drop his pants and “moon” Green Bay
Packers’ fans.  Trades  The Vikings traded Moss that year to the Oakland Raiders,
where he caught 11 touchdown passes over two seasons before
being sent to the Patriots in 2007.  He was revitalized there, breaking Rice’s 20-year-old
record by catching 23 touchdown passes in 2007. The Patriots
went undefeated before losing 17-14 to the New York Giants in
the Super Bowl.  In three-plus seasons in New England, Moss caught 259
passes for 3,904 yards with 50 touchdowns.  This season, he had nine catches for 139 yards and three
scores, failing to make a catch in New England’s 41-14 win two
days ago over the Miami Dolphins. It was his first game without
a reception since joining the Patriots.  Following the team’s season-opening win over the Cincinnati
Bengals, Moss spoke about wanting a new contract. He was making
$6.4 million in 2010, the final year of a three-year, $27
million contract, according to the Associated Press.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 