-- Volcker Says Nations May Face Prolonged Unemployment
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-10-06T22:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/volcker-says-unemployment-in-developed-nations-may-take-years-to-overcome.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , an adviser to President  Barack Obama , said he doesn’t
expect consumer spending to spur growth, and the U.S. and other
developed nations face the prospect of protracted joblessness.  “This has not been an ordinary recession,” Volcker, 83,
said today in a speech in Toronto. It’s “very difficult to find
a sector in the American economy that has any spark to it,” he
said.  Developed nations may undergo “prolonged unemployment,”
he said. “It’s going to take years to turn it around,”
presenting an “enormous political challenge for all leaders.”  U.S. companies unexpectedly cut jobs last month as
employment decreased by 39,000, the biggest drop since January,
after a revised 10,000 rise in August, according to figures from
ADP Employer Services. A loss of jobs raises the risk that
consumer spending, the largest part of the U.S. economy, will
retrench and halt the recovery.  Unemployment, public debt and fragile banking systems pose
risks to global prosperity, the International Monetary Fund said
today, urging  policy makers  to take bolder steps to assure a
sustained recovery.  The world economy will expand 4.2 percent next year, the
Washington-based IMF said in a report, down from its forecast of
4.3 percent three months ago. The fund projects growth of 4.8
percent this year, up from 4.6 percent.  Big Adjustments Needed  The U.S. has “very large adjustments” to make in the
economy, including increasing exports and cutting the current-
account deficit, Volcker said. “It will take years.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today a
“damaging dynamic” of large economies keeping their currencies
undervalued can cause inflation and asset bubbles, and called on
countries to coordinate their policies.  Global exchange-rate policies are a source of contention
ahead of this week’s meeting in Washington of the International
Monetary Fund, World Bank and Group of 20 officials. Brazil’s
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  last week warned of a “currency
war.”  Referring to the yuan-dollar exchange rate, Volcker said,
the U.S. allowed “the imbalance to go on and on and on, to the
point where the Chinese are stuck with dollars and we’re stuck
with indebtedness.”  “This is so fundamental, you’re not going to cure it by
exchange rate intervention alone,” he said.  Volcker is chairman of the president’s Economic Recovery
Advisory Board. As Fed chairman from 1979 to 1987, he raised
 interest rates  to as high as 20 percent to tame inflation,
triggering a recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 