-- Wall Street Says Women Worth Less as Disparity Over Pay Widens
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2010-10-06T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/wall-street-says-women-worth-less-as-pay-disparity-widens-in-finance-ranks.html
Nancy Davis , a rising star at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. , left in January 2008 after an eight-year run
betting the firm’s money on derivatives to become a portfolio
manager at Highbridge Capital Management LLC. She lost that job
10 months later when the hedge fund cut back in the recession.  For women in the financial-services industry like Davis,
who’s still unemployed, the last few years haven’t been kind.
More than five times as many women as men lost their jobs in the
three years after July 2007, and pay for full-time managers
compared with their male counterparts worsened between 2000
and 2007, according to U.S. government data.  Women managers in finance, a group that includes bank
tellers as well as executives, earned 63.9 cents for every
dollar of income men earned in 2000, based on median salaries,
according to  Government Accountability Office  statistics
analyzed by Bloomberg. In 2007, the last year for which data 
are available, the figure was 58.8 cents. The 41-cent gap was
the biggest in any of 13 industries surveyed by the GAO, and 
only two others had a widening disparity.  “When you have an industry dominated by men like finance,
and compensation going through the roof, it’s not surprising
that it increases the gender disparity between men and women,”
said  Joan C. Williams , a professor at the University of
California’s  Hastings College of Law  in San Francisco who has
written on gender and the workplace. “The sky’s the limit for
men who hit a home run, but women can’t get to first base.”  Goldman Sachs Lawsuit  It has been more than a decade since a case brought by
Smith Barney brokerage employees served to dismantle Wall
Street’s mandatory arbitration rules, Merrill Lynch & Co. was
confronted with sex-discrimination claims from 900 women and
 Allison Schieffelin , a former bond saleswoman, filed a gender-
bias suit against Morgan Stanley -- a case later settled for $54
million. Yet not a lot has improved for women in banking.  Last month New York-based Goldman Sachs was sued by three
former female employees who say they faced discrimination in pay
and fewer opportunities for promotion than men at the firm. One
of the women claimed she had been pinned against a wall and
groped by a male colleague after a 1997 outing that included a
stop at Scores, a Manhattan topless bar.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York, said
the suit is “without merit” and that the company takes
“extraordinary efforts to recruit, develop and retain
outstanding women professionals.”  ‘Culture Hasn’t Changed’  “Despite their sustained participation and economic
influence, women have experienced a shockingly slow rate of
progress advancing into business leadership, regardless of
industry,”  Ilene H. Lang , president and chief executive officer
of  Catalyst , a New York organization that promotes workplace
diversity, told lawmakers at a Sept. 28 hearing in Washington.  It’s harder for women on Wall Street where trading floors
can create a hostile environment, said Nina Godiwalla, a former
investment banker at Morgan Stanley and author of “Suits: A
Woman on Wall Street,” which will be published by Atlas & Co.
in February.  “Based on the women I’ve talked to, the culture hasn’t
changed,” Godiwalla said. Women are routinely subjected to
crude jokes and excluded from outings, she said. “Even if it
doesn’t happen to you, you see it around all the time, and it’s
just a reminder that you’re not part of the team,” she said.  Maternity ‘Buddy’  To be sure, women have gained some ground over the last
decade. Executives including  Mary Erdoes , CEO of asset
management at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Lisa Carnoy , co-head of
global capital markets at  Bank of America Corp. , and  Isabelle Ealet , global head of commodities at Goldman Sachs, have risen
to positions of prominence at the biggest U.S. banks.  Davis, 33, said Goldman Sachs and Highbridge, which is
owned by JPMorgan, bent “over backward to keep women.”  Goldman gave Davis a maternity “buddy,” a senior female
manager, to help her transition back to work after both of her
pregnancies and placed her in its Leadership Acceleration
Initiative, a program to promote the development of high-
performers, she said.  “Of course you’re going to run into your share of jerks on
Wall Street, but my experiences at Highbridge and Goldman were
very positive,” Davis said. “I was fortunate to work with good
groups of people, and I never saw unfairness or
discrimination.”  ‘Mommy Track’  Still, for a trader with her credentials, finding a job has
been harder than she expected. Davis, who ran proprietary
derivatives trading for Goldman Sachs, wants something that will
allow her to see her 4-year-old and 7-year-old before bed
without being relegated to the “mommy track,” she said.  “I interviewed for a job recently with a small hedge fund.
I think they were concerned about my ability to work until 2
a.m. given my family commitments,” Davis said. “They realized
that, and I realized that. It wasn’t the right fit.”  More than half of women between 15 and 44 years old have
children, according to the  U.S. Census Bureau , which can cause
problems like the ones facing Davis, said Williams. Studies have
found that mothers are less likely to be hired or promoted and
receive lower pay for similar jobs, Williams said. Becoming a
mother is one of the leading reasons women leave Wall Street,
she said.  “They get the sense that it’s going to be impossible to
have children and keep their jobs at the same time,” Williams
said.  Job Losses  The number of women in finance, banking and insurance in
the U.S. fell by 537,000 between the second quarter of 2007 and
the second quarter of this year, according to data compiled by
the  Bureau of Labor Statistics . That’s 12.5 percent of women in
those industries compared with 3.6 percent of jobs held by males
cut in the same period, according to the data. Across all
industries, the female workforce decreased by about 2.6 percent,
or 1.7 million jobs, in the three-year period, the data shows.  Women who get a foot in the door on Wall Street often find
themselves assigned to less prestigious trading desks and
divisions with smaller bonus pools, said  Kelly Dermody , a
partner at  Lieff Cabraser Heimann & Bernstein LLP  in San
Francisco who’s representing the women suing Goldman Sachs along
with Outten & Golden LLP. The two law firms have gender-
discrimination cases pending against Bank of America and its
Merrill Lynch unit, among other firms, Dermody said.  “Women are fighting the same old battles, just in a new
environment higher up the chain,” she said. “These cases keep
coming and coming. Wall Street isn’t learning the lessons.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is
currently in litigation with the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission in a gender-discrimination case.  JPMorgan, Citigroup  One of the complaints in the Goldman Sachs case is that the
proportion of female managers shrinks at higher levels. Women
constituted 29 percent of the firm’s vice presidents, 17 percent
of managing directors and 14 percent of partners in 2009,
according to the complaint. Four of 30 members of the management
committee and one of nine executive officers were women.  JPMorgan has three women on its 16-person operating
committee, including Erdoes,  Heidi Miller , president of
international operations, and Chief Investment Officer  Ina Drew .
Morgan Stanley has just one woman, Chief Financial Officer  Ruth Porat , among its top dozen executives. Citigroup Inc. CEO  Vikram Pandit  doesn’t have any women on his executive committee, which
consists of 19 men, including himself.  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for Citigroup, said women run
many businesses and important functions, including the firm’s
private bank, personal banking and wealth management.  Darin Oduyoye , a spokesman for JPMorgan, and  Mark Lake , a spokesman
for Morgan Stanley, declined to comment.  Unconscious Discrimination  “In the old days, the problem was conscious, explicit
discrimination -- the doors were literally closed and we had to
put our heads against them and pound them in,” said  Susan Estrich , a professor of gender-discrimination law at the
University of Southern California in Los Angeles and author of
“ Sex and Power .”  Discrimination today is largely unconscious, and people in
power don’t even realize they’re doing it, she said.  “People who are doing the judging unconsciously prefer
people they’re comfortable with, people they know, people who
look like them, people whose experience they recognize,”
Estrich said.  Sharon Meers , a former managing director at Goldman Sachs
who left the firm four years ago to write “Getting to 50/50:
How Working Couples Can Have It All by Sharing It All (Random
House, 2009),” describes studies in her book that show both men
and women are more apt to choose male job candidates over
females, even if their credentials are identical.  “The air we breathe is filled with assumptions about men
and women that are hard to shake,” Meers said.
“Instantaneously and subconsciously, we end up prioritizing men
over women in a way that doesn’t make any sense.”  Testosterone’s Role  That’s especially true on Wall Street trading floors, said
Williams, the Hastings law professor, who has studied traders.  “The gender bias faced by female traders is open, dramatic
and pervasive compared with other professionals,” she said.
“It’s all about masculine signaling -- mine’s bigger than
yours. But in this case, it’s measured by salary and fueled by
risk.”  That may have something to do with testosterone, according
to  John Coates , a former derivatives trader at Deutsche Bank AG
and now a  senior research fellow  in neuroscience and finance at
the University of Cambridge. Coates left the bank to study the
correlation between hormones and trading after noticing that
male traders exhibited manic behavior during bull markets.  ‘Feeds on Itself’  “You put on a trade, you get it right, you make a big win,
your testosterone levels go up, you get more confident, you want
more risk and this thing feeds on itself,” said Coates, whose
 studies of traders in London  found that men with higher levels
of testosterone earned more money. “If you get into a bull
market, all these guys are in synch. And eventually they get T
levels that are so high they’ve gone over the top of this dose-
response curve, and they are over-confident and are putting on
too much risk, and it’s risk with terrible risk-reward
tradeoffs, and that is a bubble.”  Women produce about 10 percent of the testosterone of an
average man in his 20s, which may explain some differences in
risk-taking, Coates said. In the investment banks he studied,
only 2 percent to 3 percent of the traders were women, while
about 60 percent of the asset managers, who have more time to
analyze the risks they’re taking, were female. Brokerage
accounts managed by women tended to outperform those held by
men, he said.  “Women are better at more reflective types of trading or
trading that requires more analysis and a longer holding
period,” Coates said. “Why isn’t Wall Street valuing that?”  Competition, Risk-Taking  Hormones alone don’t explain the differences between males
and females on Wall Street, said Anna Dreber, a researcher at
the Institute for Financial Research in Stockholm who’s  studying
competition and risk-taking  among men and women. She said she
has found that girls can be as competitive as boys, depending on
the environment.  “Even if you have some specific version of a gene that
makes it more likely to take a risk, your social environment can
still affect whether that gene is expressed or not,” Dreber
said. “I would expect a fairly big chunk of the variation of
behavior in individuals is some sort of interplay between
biological and social variables.”  Davis, who thrived on one of Goldman Sachs’s most elite
trading desks, may be an exception to the rule, said Williams,
whose latest book is titled “Reshaping the Work-Family Debate:
Why Men and Class Matter” (Harvard University Press, 2010).  Walking a Tightrope  Bias against women in the workplace today is more subtle
than in the past, she said. Women have to walk a tightrope in
the office between being too feminine and not being taken
seriously or being too masculine and viewed as a “bitch” with
a personality problem, she said. They also have to keep proving
their competency, she said.  “There are dramatic gender pressures on both men and women
who are traders that systematically disadvantage women,
regardless of which hormone is surging when,” Williams said.
“The gender pressures on men are to be the biggest cowboy with
the biggest gun who shoots the fastest. It’s all about who
demonstrates manliness the best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net  