-- Wells Fargo Resolves Claims by Eight States on Alleged Deceptive Mortgages
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-06T18:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/wells-fargo-settles-claims-by-eight-states-on-alleged-deceptive-mortgages.html
Wells Fargo & Co.  agreed to pay $24
million to eight states and make more than $772 million in loan
modifications to resolve allegations that companies it acquired
deceptively marketed adjustable rate mortgage loans.  The states claimed Wachovia Corp., which bought World
Savings Inc. and was then acquired by Wells Fargo’s home
mortgage unit in 2009, left consumers with massive debt by
failing to give proper warning of the effect “pick-a-payment”
adjustable rate mortgages could have. The low payment options
often didn’t cover monthly interest, leading to defaults and
foreclosures, the states said.  “In many cases, those who seek out these ‘minimum payment’
option mortgages are the very people who have the most limited
financial resources,” New Jersey Attorney General  Paula T. Dow 
said in a statement. “Signing them up for loan terms that sound
attractive without warning them of the potential pitfalls is
wrong.”  Wells Fargo will forgive interest and late fees for
eligible delinquent borrowers, the states said. Loan
modifications will be offered to 8,715 borrowers, Arizona
Attorney General  Terry Goddard  said in a statement today. The
total economic value of these modifications, including reduced
interest rates, term extensions and forgiveness of principal is
more than $772 million, Goddard said.  Numbers Unknown  The numbers and balance of mortgages that will be affected
are unknown,  Franklin Codel , the chief financial officer of
Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, said in a phone interview today.  “We gave the states an estimate but if the economy does
really well or really poorly the number could be larger or
smaller,” Codel said. “We aren’t tied to that number.”  The agreement isn’t related to claims that lenders used
false documents and signatures to justify hundreds of thousands
of foreclosures.  The six other states covered settlement are Colorado,
Florida, Illinois, Nevada, Texas and Washington.  San Francisco-based Wells Fargo said today the $24 million
payment will be used to help the states with customer outreach
and to prevent or mitigate the impacts of foreclosures in their
communities.  “In light of the unprecedented changes in our economy,
Wells Fargo will continue to work with leaders across the nation
to help stabilize communities,” Mike Held, co-president of
Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, said today in a statement.  The agreement expands on Wells Fargo’s existing home
preservation efforts, the company said. It won’t affect third-
quarter financial results, Wells Fargo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 