-- Wells Fargo Foreclosures Proceed After Data Queried
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-10-06T16:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/wells-fargo-won-t-delay-foreclosures-as-rivals-review-filings.html
Wells Fargo & Co.  is standing by the
accuracy of its foreclosure filings and won’t follow competitors
in delaying seizures, after an employee testified he signed
documents for proceedings without personally reviewing records.  The bank said yesterday it doesn’t plan to halt
repossessions because its “procedures and daily auditing
demonstrate that our foreclosure affidavits are accurate.”  In a May 20 deposition, a  Wells Fargo Home Mortgage 
employee said he signed 50 to 150 documents a day, including
statements describing debts and borrowers used to justify
foreclosures, without personally confirming the information was
correct. His testimony related to a civil claim against the bank
in a Washington state court. A judge dismissed the case in June.  Mortgage firms have drawn fire from borrowers, lawyers and
state officials for letting employees sign affidavits for court-
monitored foreclosures without personally checking loan records.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Bank of America Corp.  last week delayed
foreclosures to review the accuracy of their filings. Last
month, Ally Financial Inc. said its GMAC Mortgage unit would
halt evictions for a similar review.  The Wells Fargo employee said he relied on foreclosure
lawyers and personnel in other departments to check files,
according to a deposition transcript provided by Melissa
Huelsman, the  Seattle attorney  representing the homeowner. The
employee said he confirmed the date on the file before signing
without verifying other information.  ‘Out of Context’  Those comments “should not be taken out of context,”
Wells Fargo said in yesterday’s statement, e-mailed by a
spokeswoman, Vickee Adams. The judge “reviewed Wells Fargo’s
procedures, documents and declarations and summarily dismissed
the borrower’s case, confirming that the foreclosure was
valid,” the bank said in the statement.  Such a dismissal doesn’t necessarily invalidate testimony,
said  Peter Henning , a professor at Wayne State University Law
School in Detroit and a former federal prosecutor.  “It’s not that the judge rejected the deposition, or found
that the deposition was incorrect,” he said. “The firm
probably went back into court and said ‘Here you go, you can
inspect all the documents.’ Maybe that was enough.”  Wells Fargo is the second-largest servicer of U.S. home
loans, according to industry newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance.
The San Francisco-based bank handles about $1.8 trillion of
residential mortgages, according to  company filings . Bank of
America, JPMorgan,  Citigroup Inc.  and Ally round out the top
five. Through June, 92 percent of Wells Fargo’s mortgages were
current, according to the statement.  ‘How Do You Know?’  Andrew Yates, a Seattle-based  lawyer  representing the
employee, didn’t return calls for comment. Adams declined to
comment beyond the statement.  During questioning from Huelsman, the bank employee
described his efforts before signing filings.  “So you’re simply signing the document that’s presented to
you and you’re just making sure the date is correct?” Huelsman
asked during the deposition.  “Correct,” the employee said.  “So how do you know when you’re signing this document that
it’s true and correct?” Huelsman said.  “There are people that are responsible for” maintaining
the paperwork, the employee said.  States Take a Stance  The employee said he oversaw 53 full-time staff and 15
contract workers, and that other supervisors within the
department signed the same amount of paperwork. That would
amount to each supervisor signing 1,000 to 3,000 documents
during 20 business days each month.  In a separate case in Florida, an employee at New York-
based JPMorgan said in May that her team of managers signed
about 18,000 documents a month. In a December deposition, an
employee at Detroit-based Ally said he signed about 10,000
documents a month. Attorneys general in at least seven states
including Texas, Illinois and Ohio are investigating practices
at Ally’s GMAC Mortgage unit.  In Wells Fargo’s home state, California Attorney General
 Jerry Brown  asked JPMorgan to prove its foreclosures are legal
or else freeze them, and made a similar request to Ally in
September.  “This goes to the internal processes and oversight at
these institutions with respect to the conduct of their
employees,” said  Jacob Frenkel , a partner at Potomac, Maryland-
based law firm Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker, which isn’t
representing any lenders in foreclosure proceedings. “It’s not
in the banks’ interest for the records not to be right. As a
lawyer I want to go into court with papers that are solid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 