-- Wen Warns of `Disaster' in Rapid Gains in Yuan, Tells Europe to Back Off
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-10-06T13:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/wen-warns-of-disaster-in-rapid-gains-in-yuan-tells-europe-to-back-off.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said a
rapid increase of the yuan would hobble China’s economy, dealing
a fresh rebuke to U.S. and European calls for a higher exchange
rate.  Wen said China will stick to its policy of gradually
increasing the currency’s flexibility and faulted European
leaders for teaming with the U.S. to pressure the Chinese
government.  “If the yuan isn’t stable, it will bring disaster to China
and the world,” Wen told a business conference before a Europe-
China summit in Brussels later today. “If we increase the yuan
by 20 percent-40 percent as some people are calling for, many of
our factories will shut down and society will be in turmoil. If
China’s economy goes down, it’s not good for the world
economy.”  China has capped the yuan’s gain at 2 percent since
relaxing a dollar peg in June, leading to criticism that it is
stunting the recovery in the industrial world by shielding its
market from U.S. and European imports.  The 16-nation euro region’s trade deficit with China
widened 6.7 percent to 48.1 billion euros ($67 billion) in the
first half of 2010. The  U.S. deficit  with China widened 16
percent to $119 billion.  Wen meets later today with  European Union  officials
including European Commission President  Jose Barroso , who told
the conference that China needs an “orderly and broad-based
appreciation” of the currency.  Wen rejected that call, saying “Europe shouldn’t join the
choir to press China to allow more yuan appreciation.”  China’s economy will grow 10.5 percent in 2010 and 9.6
percent next year, beating rates of 1.7 percent and 1.5 percent
for the 16-nation euro region, the International Monetary Fund
said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zijing Wu  in Brussels at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  