-- Wheat Drops for Seventh Time in Eight Sessions as Feed Demand May Dwindle
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-06T20:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/wheat-drops-for-seventh-time-in-eight-sessions-as-feed-demand-may-dwindle.html
Wheat futures fell for the seventh
time in eight sessions on speculation that demand for the grain
will shrink as corn prices drop.  Corn futures declined 0.5 percent today on bets that
favorable weather will speed up the U.S. harvest. Both grains
are used in animal feed. Wheat prices have gained 46 percent
since June 1 after drought damaged crops in Russia and floods
cut Canadian output.  Wheat is “following the corn market,” said  Jim Hemminger ,
a risk-management specialist at Top Third Ag Marketing in
Chicago. “Wheat has priced itself out of being a competitive
feed grain, compared to where it was last June.”  Wheat futures for December delivery dropped 5.25 cents, or
0.8 percent, to settle at $6.5825 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Prices were down 7.8 percent in the
previous seven sessions.  U.S. inventories at the beginning of September were up 11
percent from a year earlier, the Department of Agriculture said
last week. The agency is scheduled to release monthly production
estimates on the U.S. crop on Oct. 8.  Earlier, futures rose as much as 1.5 percent on speculation
that dry weather in the Great Plains will harm early development
of winter crops currently being planted.  Dry Weather  Much of Kansas and Oklahoma has had less than half of the
normal amount of rain in the past two weeks, according to the
 National Weather Service . “Significant” rainfall is not
expected until late this weekend or early next week, AccuWeather
Inc. said.  Farmers “are going to need some moisture in the Plains
states before they can get wheat in the ground, especially in
the western part of Kansas,” said  Larry Glenn , an analyst at
Frontier Ag in Quinter, Kansas.  In Kansas, the largest winter-wheat state, about 45 percent
of the crop was  planted  as of Oct. 3, down from 49 percent a
year earelier, USDA data show.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 