-- Whitney Falters in Trying to Repeat Citigroup Success
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-10-06T14:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/whitney-falters-in-trying-to-repeat-success-of-citigroup-call.html
Meredith Whitney, the bank analyst
who jumped to celebrity from obscurity by correctly predicting  Citigroup Inc .’s dividend cut, is having less success divining
stock market winners and losers.  Since Whitney founded her own firm last year, about two-
thirds of her picks have fared worse than market indexes. Missed
calls include  Visa Inc ., the payments network that fell 14
percent after Whitney called it her “single best buy,” and
credit-card issuer  Capital One Financial Corp ., which tripled
after she urged clients to sell.  Whitney’s recommendation to sell bank stocks propelled her
to fame during the financial crisis. Time magazine dubbed her
one of the world’s most influential people and Fortune put her
on its list of the 50 Most Powerful Women.  Michael Lewis ’s best-
seller “The Big Short” chronicled how Whitney’s prediction on
Oct. 31, 2007, that Citigroup would lower its dividend helped
erase $390 billion of value from U.S. stocks.  “She can move the markets, her opinion is extremely
worthwhile, but she does not bat a thousand -- nobody does,”
said  Matt McCormick , a portfolio manager at Cincinnati-based
Bahl & Gaynor Inc., referring to a measure of baseball
perfection. “The calls that she’s making may not be the best
calls right now, but a year from now, who knows?” said
McCormick, whose company oversees $2.7 billion.  On Her Own  Whitney, 40, a graduate of  Brown University  in Providence,  Rhode Island , set out on her own to found  Meredith Whitney 
Advisory Group LLC after leaving Oppenheimer & Co. in February
2009. She didn’t respond to requests for comment.  “If you’re going to invest in a stock, it’s a long-term
investment,” she said yesterday in an interview on CNBC.
“That’s how my ratings are based.” Whitney’s research reports
say her recommendations are meant to project where prices are
headed over the next 12 months.  Bank analysts struggled to make accurate predictions after
the collapse of the subprime mortgage market and ensuing global
credit contraction forced Wall Street banks to curtail risk,
unwind government bailouts and adjust to the biggest regulatory
overhaul since the 1930s.  Even the best-performing Wall Street firms and individual
stock pickers failed to predict the fall and rise of most big
financial stocks, according to rankings in the November issue of
Bloomberg Markets magazine. New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc . won the No. 1 spot by making 30 accurate calls on the 79
financial stocks its analysts follow.  KBW Inc . analysts,
including Sanjay Sakhrani, ranked second. Whitney didn’t make
the list.  Consistency, Logic  Vince Farrell, chief investment officer at New York-based
Soleil Securities Corp., said institutional investors don’t
expect analysts to be right about stock recommendations most of
the time. “What you really want out of the sell-side analyst is
more the direction of an individual company,” Farrell said
in an interview today with Bloomberg Radio’s  Tom Keene .  “Just give me a whole lot of facts and figures and I’ll
make the decision,” Farrell said.    Peter Sorrentino , senior portfolio manager at Huntington
Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, said his firm has cut back on
investments in banks because their financial statements have
become too opaque to understand.  “It’s just a very, very difficult group,” said
Sorrentino, whose company oversees $13.3 billion. “Return on
equity, return on assets, net interest margin -- the classic
things that a bank analyst used to go to -- they’ve almost
become meaningless numbers.”  Fleeting Fame  Before Whitney, analysts who soared to mainstream celebrity
found it fleeting when the market turned against them.  Abby Joseph Cohen, senior investment strategist at Goldman
Sachs, made her reputation with a bullish view of the stock
market that proved true through the 1990s, before the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index sank for three straight years beginning in
2000.  Morgan Stanley ’s Mary Meeker, dubbed the “Queen of the
Net” by Barron’s magazine in 1998, receded from the spotlight
after Internet stocks imploded.  Whitney made six accurate and 13 inaccurate stock forecasts
through Sept. 30, based on annualized returns, including
dividends, on each of her 19 recommendations, when compared with
the performance of the S&P 500. She was right seven times and
wrong 12 against the 81-company S&P 500 Financials Index.  Buy and Sell  Correct predictions are stocks rated “buy” that
outperformed the indexes or a “sell” that underperformed. A
rating of “hold” or “neutral” is right if the stock
underperformed or matched the indexes, unless it had been
upgraded from sell.  Whitney’s first stock call as her own boss came on March 4,
2009, when she started Goldman Sachs at “neutral,” a rating
investors may interpret as a signal to sell. The stock surged 75
percent in about four months, providing an annualized return
that beat the S&P by 281 percentage points.  Other misses came on April 1, 2009, about a month after
stocks had begun to rebound, with a wrong-way “sell” call on
McLean, Virginia-based Capital One and a “neutral” rating for  American Express Co .  Capital One more than tripled through June 14 of this year,
beating the S&P 500 by 129 percentage points on an annualized
basis. After an upgrade to “hold,” it underperformed the index
by 26 points. New York-based AmEx, the biggest credit-card
issuer by purchases, almost tripled and was last year’s top
performer in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Wells Fargo  Wells Fargo & Co., the largest U.S. home lender, fared
better than the indexes during the time Whitney urged clients to
sell and worse after she upgraded the San Francisco-based
company to “hold.”    Discover Financial Services , the Riverwoods, Illinois-based
payments network rated neutral in August 2009, has since
outperformed the indexes and larger rivals Visa and MasterCard,
the only two firms that have Whitney’s highest rating of
“buy.” She called Visa her “single best buy” during an
interview with Bloomberg Radio on May 4, 2010, about a week
after the stock reached an all-time high.  Among the 13 other companies she covers, Whitney has one
sell recommendation, on Atlanta-based  SunTrust Banks Inc . She
rates  Jefferies Group Inc . “outperform,” and Citigroup Inc.
“underperform.” She rates 10 companies “hold.”  Since Whitney began covering Visa and MasterCard on March
10, the two companies have underperformed the broader market and
the S&P 500 Information Technology Index.  Accurate Predictions  Whitney’s accurate predictions have provided returns that
diverged less from the S&P indexes than her wrong-way calls.  After missing most of the increase in Goldman Sachs shares,
Whitney raised the company to “buy” on July 13, 2009, and held
that rating for three months. The stock rose 25 percent,
providing an annualized return that outperformed the S&P 500 by
42 percentage points, while underperforming the financials index
by 28 points. She downgraded the stock to neutral on Oct. 13 of
last year, and it has since underperformed both indexes.  Whitney’s accurate calls include “neutral” or “hold”
ratings on Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co., U.S. Bancorp
and Pittsburgh-based  PNC Financial Services Group Inc . Morgan
Stanley has returned 3.5 percent on an annualized basis and
JPMorgan 23 percent since she started coverage on the stocks on
April 1, 2009, compared with 28 percent for the S&P 500.  Clients who took Whitney’s advice on April 1, 2009, to sell
Citigroup, the company that cut its dividend 11 weeks after she
said it would, missed out on a 46 percent gain. The S&P 500
returned 45 percent and the financials index 61 percent.  A company rated sell is “expected to perform significantly
worse than the peer group” over a year, Whitney writes in her
research notes.  Whitney is scheduled to deliver the keynote address tonight
at the annual 25 Most Powerful Women in Banking  awards dinner  in  New York  sponsored by American Banker and U.S. Banker magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Eichenbaum in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net  