-- Embassy-Bombing Witness Is Barred by U.S. Judge in Trial of Ahmed Ghailani
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-06T17:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/witness-in-ghailani-embassy-bombing-trial-barred-by-u-s-judge-in-new-york.html
The U.S. can’t call a key witness in
the trial of  Ahmed Ghailani , an alleged terrorist charged with
bombing two U.S. embassies, because Ghailani was “coerced” by
the CIA into disclosing the witness’s identity, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan , in New York, rejected a
request by prosecutors to allow Hussein Abebe, a Tanzanian
miner, to testify that he sold five crates of dynamite to
Ghailani before the 1998 blasts in Tanzania and Kenya. It was a
setback for a prosecutor who called Abebe a “giant” witness in
the case and said he’s the only person who could give a first-
hand account of Ghailani’s role in the attacks.  Kaplan ruled that Abebe’s testimony is too closely tied to
coerced statements made by Ghailani while he was in the custody
of the Central Intelligence Agency and must be excluded from the
trial. The ruling, made public today, will delay the trial’s
start until Oct. 12 to give the government time to decide
whether to appeal.  “The court has not reached this conclusion lightly,”
Kaplan wrote. “It is acutely aware of the perilous nature of
the world in which we live. But the Constitution is the rock
upon which our nation rests. We must follow it not only when it
is convenient, but when fear and danger beckon in a different
direction.”  ‘Not Torture’  Defense lawyers hailed the ruling as significant victory
for Ghailani, 36, the first detainee held in Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, to be tried in a U.S. civilian court. He is charged with
participating in a global conspiracy with al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden  that includes the Aug. 7, 1998, bombings at U.S.
embassies in Tanzania and Kenya that killed 224 people,
including 12 Americans. At least 5,000 others were injured.  “This case will be tried upon lawful evidence. Not
torture. Not coercion,” Ghailani’s lawyer, Peter Quijano, said
in a news conference.  Ghailani’s lawyers had argued their client’s statements
about Abebe were made “under duress” when he was held in CIA
custody from 2004 to 2006 after he was captured.  “For our system of justice to work, the Fifth Amendment
must apply to Ahmed Ghailani, as much as to any other defendant
before the bar of justice,” Quijano said. “It is the
Constitution that won a great victory today.”  TNT, Oxygen Tanks  Ghailani, a Tanzanian national, is accused of helping to
deliver bomb-making components, including TNT and oxygen tanks,
in a truck detonated outside the U.S. embassy in Dar es Salaam,
Tanzania, on Aug. 7, 1998. Another bomb went off almost
simultaneously outside the U.S. embassy in Nairobi, Kenya.  Ghailani fled after the bombings, the U.S. says. He served
as a cook and bodyguard for  bin Laden  and later as a document
forger, prosecutors said. A federal grand jury in New York
indicted him in December 1998.  He was captured in Pakistan in July 2004 and held by the
CIA at “black sites” where he was subjected to “enhanced
interrogation techniques,” the U.S. has said. While in CIA
custody, his defense lawyers say he was “tortured.”  Ghailani was taken to Guantanamo Bay in September 2006 and
transferred to federal court in New York last year for trial,
after the Obama administration said it planned to close
Guantanamo and try some terrorism suspects held there in
civilian courts.  ‘Prisoner of War’  On Oct. 1, Kaplan granted a two-day delay in the trial,
originally set to begin with opening arguments Oct. 4, saying he
would allow prosecutors to appeal any ruling. Kaplan held a
hearing last month to hear from Abebe before deciding whether to
let him testify against Ghailani.  Today’s ruling leaves intact the 286 federal counts against
Ghailani. He faces as long as life in prison if convicted of the
most serious charge of conspiracy to kill U.S. nationals. He has
pleaded not guilty. The judge said even if he is acquitted of
all charges it is unlikely he will be freed.  “His status as an ‘enemy combatant’ probably would permit
his detention as something akin to a prisoner of war until
hostilities between the United States and al-Qaeda and the
Taliban end even if he were found not guilty in this case,”
Kaplan wrote.  In 2001, four other men were tried and convicted in New
York of conspiring with bin Laden in the global conspiracy to
kill U.S. nationals. They are all serving life sentences.  Jessie Erwin, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , said the office didn’t have an immediate comment
on today’s ruling or whether the U.S. will appeal.  ‘One Ruling’  At a news conference today, U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  called Kaplan’s decision “one ruling in one case by one
judge” and he said the government intends to proceed with the
trial.  “The true test is how these cases are resolved,” he said.
“It’s too early to say the Ghailani matter will not be
successful.”  In court, Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Michael Farbiarz  asked Kaplan for an adjournment in the case, saying he
needed to review the full opinion. While Kaplan read his three-
page ruling to a courtroom filled with federal agents and
prosecutors, he said a supplement to his written decision is
sealed from public view because it contains classified
information.  “The government, in a setting as consequential as this
one, wants to make a thoughtful review,” Farbiarz said. He
asked that jury selection, slated to be completed today, be put
on hold. The judge agreed.  Bin Laden’s Bodyguard  Kaplan previously ruled in favor of the U.S. and refused to
dismiss the indictment on speedy trial grounds and for
outrageous government misconduct.  Three years ago, Kaplan ruled against the U.S. in a high-
profile prosecution of 17 ex-KPMG LLP executives charged in the
largest tax-shelter case in U.S. history.  Kaplan dismissed charges against 13 defendants in July
2007, saying prosecutors violated their right to counsel. The
judge said he found it “intolerable” that prosecutors
threatened to indict New York-based KPMG, which likely would
have destroyed the firm, unless it stopped paying legal bills
for the former executives.  That decision was upheld by a federal appeals court in
August 2008.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-CR-1023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York Federal Court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York Federal Court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 