-- Chinese Patrol Boats Leave Disputed Waters as Japan Ties Thaw
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-10-06T05:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/two-chinese-patrol-boats-leave-disputed-waters-around-senkaku-japan-says.html
Two Chinese patrol boats left waters
disputed with Japan as Asia’s two biggest economies strove to
repair their biggest diplomatic rift in at least five years.  The ships departed this morning, Japan’s Chief Cabinet
Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  told reporters in Tokyo. They had been
patrolling since Sept. 24 close to islands in the East China Sea
claimed by both countries. A Sept. 7 collision in the area
between a Chinese trawler and two Japanese Coast Guard boats
sparked a row that threatened trade ties, and came amid rising
tension over China’s territorial ambitions in the region.  Improved relations would help reassure Japanese exporters,
which sold 10.2 trillion yen ($122 billion) of goods and
services to China last year in their largest market. Sengoku
said it was “hard to know” whether the boats withdrew because
of a meeting in Brussels on Oct. 4 between Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  in which they agreed to
promote a “strategic mutual relationship.”  At the same time, Wen and Kan reiterated their competing
claims to the uninhabited isles, known as  Senkaku  in Japanese
and Diaoyu in Chinese, and administered by Japan. Control over
the area would give the holder rights to undersea natural gas
and oil reserves. China and Japan have yet to implement a 2008
agreement to jointly develop the gas fields.  China’s territorial spat with Japan appears to be waning as
tensions are rising at the other end of China’s coastline.  Vietnam Now  Vietnam demanded that China “immediately” and
“unconditionally” release a fishing boat and nine crew seized
last month in the South China Sea.  China has held the fishermen since Sept. 11 and won’t
release them until they pay a fine for fishing with explosives,
Vietnam’s government said in a statement on its website. Vietnam
denied the explosives claim and said the boat was operating in
Vietnamese territorial waters close to the Paracel Islands,
rocky outcrops also claimed by China.  The detentions, which follow China’s imposition in May of a
fishing ban in some parts of the South China Sea, come as
Vietnam prepares to host a meeting of 18 defense ministers next
week that includes China.  The South China Sea covers 3.5 million square kilometers
(1.4 million square miles) stretching from Singapore to the
Straits of Taiwan. China and Vietnam hold the largest claims to
the waters, which contain fisheries and oil and gas reserves.  U.S. Secretary of State  Robert Gates  and Chinese Defense
Minister General  Liang Guanglie  will attend next week’s meeting
of defense ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations. Counterparts from Australia, New Zealand, India, Japan,
South Korea and Russia will also participate.  Rare Earths  China, which controls more than 95 percent of global rare-
earth supply, imposed a de facto ban on exports to Japan of the
minerals vital to industries from automobiles, high-technology
and defense after the captain of the fishing boat involved in
last month’s collision was detained, Japanese Economy Minister
 Banri Kaieda  said on Sept. 28.  Japan, the world’s biggest importer of rare earths, said
yesterday it was urging China to facilitate shipments of the
minerals after a government survey showed that 31 Japanese
buyers reported problems with exports. Rare earths are a group
of 17 metals used in weapons, hybrid vehicles and laptop
computers.  The diplomatic row is the most serious since 2005, when
thousands of Chinese protested Japanese textbooks that
downplayed the nation’s wartime atrocities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  