-- Woodside Rejects Claim Asian LNG Demand Is Weakening, May Delay Projects
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-06T07:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/woodside-rejects-claim-asian-lng-demand-is-weakening-may-delay-projects.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. , Australia’s
second-largest oil producer, said it expects Asian customers to
maintain demand for liquefied natural gas, supporting fuel
prices and allowing projects to proceed as planned.  “We’re not seeing a shortage of demand that will hold up
our projects,”  Reinhardt Matisons , president of marketing for
Perth-based Woodside, said by phone today. “Nor do we see any
downward pressure on pricing that will cause us any concerns.”  Woodside’s talks with potential customers show that Asian
buyers remain “very interested” in Australian LNG, Matisons
said in an interview. The company disagrees with forecasts made
by Sydney-based analysts at Citigroup Inc., he said. Citigroup
analysts wrote in an Oct. 4 report that LNG prices are falling
because of increasing competition among Australian ventures.  More than a dozen proposed LNG developments in Australia
and Papua New Guinea are competing for customers and seeking to
tap Asian demand for cleaner-burning fuels. Australia has A$200
billion ($195 billion) of projects planned, according to the
Australian Petroleum Production & Exploration Association.  “The competitive environment has switched from a couple of
years ago when it was clearly in favor of the seller,” one of
the Citigroup analysts,  Mark Greenwood , said by phone today.
“Now we think it’s more in favor of buyers, and that has put
pressure on prices. The trend has been down, and we’re
forecasting for prices to go down a little bit further.”  LNG projects have faced delays in the past five years
because of deferred environmental approvals or escalating costs,
the analysts’ said in their report. Now, there are “signs of
delays associated with a lack of customers,” they wrote.  Still ‘Reasonable Returns’  ConocoPhillips and partner  Origin Energy Ltd.  may initially
commit to just one LNG production unit, instead of two, at their
Queensland project because of a “lack of demand,” the report
said.  “We think it’s feasible for prices to fall further and for
these projects to still have a reasonable return,” Citigroup’s
Greenwood said in the phone interview today.  Woodside  rose 0.7 percent to A$44.80 in Sydney trading
today, compared with an increase of 1.7 percent for the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Woodside has a preliminary accord to sell LNG from its
proposed Browse project in Australia to CPC Corp., Taiwan’s
state-owned oil company. LNG prices are staying at
“traditional” levels, Matisons said.  “I’m confident all the sales will come through on
Browse,” he said. Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam
are potential LNG growth markets, Matisons said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 