-- Yen Breaches Japan Intervention Level, Spurring Speculation of More Sales
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-10-06T13:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/yen-breaches-japan-intervention-level-after-u-s-job-losses-fuel-surge.html
The yen climbed versus the dollar for
a second day, erasing all the loss incurred since the Bank of
Japan moved to weaken its currency last month and spurring
speculation that another intervention may follow.  The yen reached 82.77 per dollar today, the strongest since
May 1995. It had previously reached a 15-year peak of 82.88 on
Sept. 15, before the central bank intervened for the first time
since 2004 to help the nation’s exporters.  The yen plunged more than 3 percent on the day of the
intervention, weakening to 85.75 yen. Brazilian Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said Sept. 27 that the world may be facing a
“currency war.” The Bank of Japan’s move to ease borrowing
costs yesterday failed to prevent today’s yen gains as jobs data
suggested the U.S. economy is stalling and prompted speculation
of further asset purchases by the Federal Reserve.  “It’s likely they will intervene if we continue to head
lower, especially coming so soon after the steps that were
undertaken by the BOJ yesterday,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-
exchange strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
London. Japan’s monetary support “is quite easily dwarfed by
the stimulus coming from the Fed. It’s not really taking the
pressure off the yen.”  The yen was up 0.4 percent to 82.91 per dollar as of 2:40
p.m. in London from 83.22 in New York yesterday.  A report by ADP Employer services today showed an
unexpected 39,000 drop in U.S. private payrolls. U.S. Treasuries
rallied and stock-index futures slumped after the figures.  ‘Comprehensive Easing’  The Bank of Japan yesterday lowered its  benchmark interest
rate  to a range between zero and 0.1 percent. The central bank
also said it would create a 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) fund to
buy government bonds and other assets.  The move, called “comprehensive monetary easing” by
Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , followed a slump in the outlook for
growth in the BOJ’s quarterly Tankan survey last week.  Policy makers in the U.S. and the U.K. are considering
similar steps to support their economies. At the same time,
emerging markets from Brazil to South Korea are increasing
currency controls as investment inflows threaten export growth.  “Yesterday’s measures from the BOJ are probably not enough
to match the potential dollar supply that the market expects,”
said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “It’s a simple demand and supply
equation. Dollar-yen should go down.”  ‘Excess Dollars’  Countries across Asia and Latin America have also tried to
temper gains in their currencies. Brazil’s Mantega warned Sept.
27 that his government will buy all “excess dollars” in the
market to limit the real’s appreciation.  Some investors had speculated Japan would refrain from
intervening in the foreign-exchange markets before this week’s
meeting of finance ministers and central bankers from the Group
of Seven industrialized nations.  Jim O’Neill , chairman of
 Goldman Sachs  Asset Management, said he didn’t rule it out.  “The case for intervention to weaken the yen is actually
quite strong,” O’Neill said in an interview with  Deirdre Bolton 
and  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s ‘InsideTrack’
yesterday. “I think if the yen were to strengthen above 82 for
example, even if it were in the next couple of days, I think
they probably would intervene.”  Finance Minister Yoshihiko Noda told reporters in Tokyo
yesterday he was prepared to explain Japan’s reasons for
intervening to his G-7 counterparts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  