-- Yields Lowest Relative to Overnight Rate Since Carney Cut: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-06T04:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-06/yields-lowest-relative-to-overnight-rate-since-carney-cut-canada-credit.html
The  difference  between the Bank of
Canada’s overnight rate and government two-year bond yields is
at the narrowest since before the central bank cut rates 18
months ago, suggesting investors are wagering Governor  Mark Carney  is done with increases this year.  The spread was 0.37 percentage point, or 37 basis points
yesterday, down from as high as 180 basis points in April and
the lowest since March 2009, the month before the Bank of Canada
cut its target  rate  in half to a record low 0.25 percent.  Investors are backpedaling on bets the Bank of Canada would
lift rates back to “normal” levels after the commodity-
exporting nation led Group of Seven economies out of the worst
recession in two generations. Two-year yields, which climbed
above 2 percent in April, ended yesterday at 1.37 percent as the
chances that the central bank will raise rates this month fell
to one in five, from 100 percent earlier this year, according to
probabilities implied by overnight index swaps.  “They’re saying he’s not going to go any further,” said
 Mohammed Ahmed , a rates strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Canada. “Market participants have questioned the extent to
which the Bank of Canada will be able to raise the policy rate,
in particular as the Fed stays on hold.”  Shorter-term government bond yields in developed nations
are dropping as investors seek protection from the threat of
deflation. Germany’s push for European fiscal prudence amid
tepid growth and sovereign-debt burdens is “liable to send the
euro zone into a deflationary spiral,” billionaire investor
 George Soros  said in the text of a speech yesterday in New York.  ‘Fiscal Rectitude’  The German commitment to “fiscal rectitude” is gaining
sway in the rest of the world, Soros said, citing support from
the U.K. and Canada. U.S. two-year yields ended yesterday at 15
basis points over the federal funds rate, the tightest gap since
December 2008. Two-year German bund yields were 20 basis points
below the European Central Bank’s main refinancing rate of 1
percent, down from a  spread  of 73 basis points in June 2009.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canada’s companies tightened to 144
basis points, from 145 the day before. The spread has been as
wide this year as 154 basis points in June and as tight as 114
basis points in March.  Corporate yields fell to 3.6 percent, from as high as 4.3
percent in June. The securities have returned 7.62 percent this
year, compared with 11.6 percent in the U.S. and 9.2 percent
globally.  Bond Returns  In the provincial bond market, relative yields ended
yesterday at 58 basis points, in from 71 basis points in May,
the Merrill Lynch data show. Bonds in the index returned 7.9
percent this year, compared with 3.71 percent last year and on
track for their best performance since 2000’s 11.1 percent gain.  Quebec, Canada’s second-most populous province, paid 89.5
basis points over benchmarks to issue C$500 million ($492
million) in a reoffering of its 4.5 percent bonds due in
December 2020. The issue now has C$3.5 billion outstanding.  Ville de Boisbriand , a city of 27,000 people north of
Montreal, sold C$11.05 million in 3.85 percent installment
debentures with maturities of one to 10 years.  Canadian government bonds have returned 7.3 percent this
year, after reinvested interest, according to another Merrill
Lynch index. U.S. Treasuries are up 9 percent, compared with a
6.3 percent gain for government bonds globally.  Debt Auction  Canada will auction C$3 billion of 10-year bonds today,
according to a statement on the Bank of Canada’s website. The
3.25 percent securities mature in June 2021.  Bonds due in 10-years issued by Canada yield about 29 basis
points more than Treasuries. As recently as April, Treasuries
 yielded  as much as 39 basis points more than Canada bonds.  After raising its benchmark rate three times since June 1,
to 1 percent, Bank of Canada Governor  Carney  prompted
speculation rates won’t rise further this year. He said on Sept.
30 in a speech in Windsor, Ontario, that economic growth has
slowed more than expected and “the unusual uncertainty
surrounding the outlook warrants caution.”  Canadian  two-years  yielded on average 60 basis points more
than the overnight rate during the last two periods in which the
central bank paused in the midst of a tightening cycle, 2002 and
2004, Ahmed, at Canadian Imperial’s CIBC World Markets unit,
said by phone from Toronto. Two-year bonds look “too rich,”
and the spread should head back to “historical averages,”
creating an opportunity for investors to take a short position
or sell Canadian two-year bonds, Ahmed said.  Short Sale  “There’s value in being short the front-end of the
curve,” Ahmed said. “It’s quite compelling as a trade.” A
short position is a bet that a security’s price will drop.  Economists cut their forecasts for Canadian bond yields for
a third month, predicting slower inflation and a more gradual
pace of central-bank lending rate increases than they did a
month ago, a Bloomberg survey showed. The Bank of Canada meets
to set rates on Oct. 19 and Dec. 7.  The federal government’s 10-year bond will yield 3 percent
at the end of the year, according to the median of 14 estimates
gathered by Bloomberg News, down from 3.35 percent in the
previous monthly survey. The Bank of Canada will raise its
benchmark rate from today’s 1 percent in the second quarter of
next year instead of by year-end, the survey found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  