-- 
Syncora Wins Partial Judgment Against JPMorgan’s EMC in Suit

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-28T18:10:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-05-04/jpmorgan-chase-sued-by-syncora-over-insurance-for-alabama-sewer-bond-debt.html
Syncora Guarantee Inc. won part of
its case against JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMC Mortgage Corp. over
the securitization of 9,871 home equity line of credit loans.  U.S. District Judge Paul A. Crotty in  New York  ruled March
25 that Syncora, a New York-based insurer, notified EMC of 1,300
mortgages with defects and asked EMC to cure them. EMC agreed to
cure only 20 of the mortgages.  The transaction in dispute began with the purchase of the
home equity lines of credit or HELOCs, which in turn served as
collateral for the issuance of $666 million in publicly offered
securities, Syncora said in court papers.  Syncora claimed in the 2009 suit that EMC sold the loan
pool to the entity that issued the notes and contracted with
Syncora to provide financial-guaranty insurance protecting
investors.  The insurer alleged that after it hired consultants to
investigate poor loan performance, “it learned that more than
85 percent of a randomly selected pool of loans contained
defects that breached the loan-level warranties,” Crotty wrote.  Syncora notified EMC of these claimed breaches, Crotty
wrote. EMC agreed to repurchase certain loans and disputed
others “because Syncora misinterpreted the representations
relied upon or because the loans were not defective,” the judge
wrote.  Passed Deadline  Crotty separately rejected a bid by Syncora to add  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Bear Stearns & Co. to the lawsuit. The insurer
said it had uncovered new evidence to support claims of fraud
and interference. The request wasn’t filed in a timely fashion,
the judge said.  “Syncora gave no indication of its intention to file an
amended complaint, add a new party or assert additional claims
until September 2010, approximately fourteen months after the
amendment deadline had passed,” Crotty said. He added later,
“Syncora has failed to demonstrate the good cause necessary to
permit this late amendment.”  Michael Corbally, a spokesman for Syncora, didn’t
immediately reply to a voice-mail message left at his office
seeking comment.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman,
didn’t respond to a message.  The case is Syncora Guarantee Inc. v. EMC Mortgage Corp.,
1:09-cv-03106, U.S. District court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 