-- Military's Policy on Gays Shouldn't Be Enforced During Appeal, Group Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-repeal-shouldn-t-wait-during-appeal-opponents-say.html
The U.S. military shouldn’t be
allowed to enforce its “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy while it
appeals a court decision that the rule is unconstitutional, the
group that won the order told a federal appeals court.  The Log Cabin Republicans, the group promoting equal rights
for gays and lesbians that sued to block the “Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell” policy, said in a court filing yesterday that the
government is unlikely to win its appeal seeking to overturn the
ruling and won’t be irreparably harmed if enforcement of the
judge’s order begins while the appeals case moves ahead.  Postponing the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” will
lead to more investigations and discharges of service members in
violation of their constitutional rights, the group said in the
filing to the U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco.  “Every day the government remains free to implement Don’t
Ask, Don’t tell, American citizens’ constitutional rights are
violated,” the group said.  The appeals court on Oct. 20 temporarily blocked
enforcement of a judge’s ruling requiring the government to end
its policy barring gays and lesbians from serving openly in the
military. U.S. District Judge  Virginia Phillips  in Riverside,
California, ruled Sept. 9 that the policy violates
constitutionally protected due process and free speech rights.  President  Barack Obama  supports repeal of the ban, the
government has said in court papers. The Defense Department’s
findings on how the ban should be ended are scheduled to be
completed in December. Government lawyers have said in court
filings that the policy should be terminated only after advance
planning and training.  The case is Log Cabin Republicans v. United States,
10-56634, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco). The lower court case is Log Cabin Republicans v.
U.S., 04-08425, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 