-- Abu Dhabi Aims to Double Liquid Petroleum Gas Production, Exports by 2015
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2010-10-25T14:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/abu-dhabi-aims-to-double-liquid-petroleum-gas-exports-by-2015.html
Abu Dhabi, holder of most of the oil
reserves in the United Arab Emirates, aims to double production
and exports of liquid petroleum gas by 2015 as it boosts
hydrocarbon output, an official said.  State-run Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. aims to raise LPG
production to about 15 million metric tons a year by 2015 from
about 7.5 million tons expected this year,  Abdulla Sultan Al Nuaimi , the company’s gas sales manager, said on the sidelines
of a conference in the emirate today.  Adnoc, as the company is known, may supply about 2.5
million tons of LPG a year to Abu Dhabi state-run petrochemical
producers as they expand operations, Al Nuaimi said. That would
leave about 12 million tons of the fuel for export by 2015,
twice the amount of 6 million tons exported last year, he said.  Persian Gulf producers are seeking to increase capacity on
expectation demand will recover after the global economic slump
crimped fuel consumption. Saudi Arabia, the largest OPEC
producer, has expanded its capacity to more than 12 million
barrels a day and kept a third of that idle amid low demand.  Abu Dhabi, the largest sheikhdom in the U.A.E., aims to
boost its total output to 3.5 million barrels a day by 2018. The
country, which exports most of its crude oil to Asia, has
capacity to produce about 2.8 million barrels a day, Oil
Minister  Mohamed Al-Hamli  said in Abu Dhabi March 2. The U.A.E.
holds about 7 percent of global crude reserves with most in Abu
Dhabi’s on- and offshore deposits.  The U.A.E. capital has about 227 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas reserves, the seventh-largest in the world,
according to BP Plc’s annual statistical review.  The emirate is raising gas production capacity by
developing the Shah deposit in the sheikhdom’s inland desert and
by processing fuel found together with crude oil. LPG can be
used as a domestic heating and cooking fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net . 