-- Maehara Says Japan Working to Mend Ties With China
-- B y   N o r m a n   P e a r l s t i n e   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-10-26T02:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/maehara-says-japan-is-mending-relations-with-china-seeks-rare-earth-deals.html
Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  said
Japan is working to mend frayed ties with China while at the
same time looking for alternative sources of rare earth metals.  “It’s certainly not good for our own resource security to
rely on a single country,” Maehara said yesterday in an
interview in Tokyo. With China controlling 97 percent of the
rare earth market, “we’re in the process of diversifying our
supply sources.”  Former Prime Minister  Yukio Hatoyama  led a delegation to
Vietnam last week aiming to secure rare earth supplies after
China reportedly cut exports following a territorial dispute
over uninhabited islands in the East China Sea. The metals are
used in hybrid cars, disk drives and batteries.  Maehara said he will raise the issue with Chinese
counterpart  Yang Jiechi  at this week’s Association of Southeast
Asian Nations gathering in Hanoi.  “It’s not good if the No. 2 and No. 3 economic powers in
the world have troublesome relations,” he said. “We need to
firmly discuss the rare earth minerals issue.”  Japan and India agreed yesterday to “explore the
possibility of bilateral cooperation” in developing, re-cycling
and re-using rare earths, according to a joint statement.  Maehara today praised the “fruitful results” of Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan ’s meeting in Tokyo with Indian counterpart
 Manmohan Singh . Maehara said his attempt to arrange talks with
Yang in Hanoi is still under negotiation.  North Korea  Maehara, 48, also expressed doubts over whether North
Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  will succeed in his plan to pass along
power to his son  Kim Jong Un . The younger Kim last month was
named a four-star general and appointed to a senior ruling party
post, signs that he is being groomed as the third-generation
heir to the totalitarian state’s founding family.  “It’s unclear whether this power transition will proceed
successfully,” Maehara said. “There seem to be different views
within the North Korean regime. I think we really have to watch
very closely whether Kim Jong Un in fact successfully takes
power once Kim Jong Il disappears from center stage.”  Movements of North Korean personnel and vehicles near an
atomic weapons site last week sparked speculation of Kim’s
regime is preparing for its third nuclear test. While declining
to discuss what intelligence Japan has received, Maehara said
North Korea “is physically in a situation where they can
conduct a nuclear test at any time. It’s a political decision
whether to go ahead.”  DPJ Government  Maehara is one of the leaders of the  Democratic Party of
Japan , which came to power for the first time in September 2009.
Kan named him foreign minister last month after a year as
transportation minister. In his previous capacity, Maehara
oversaw the state-backed turnaround plan for  Japan Airlines
Corp.  and lead the push to sell high-speed rail technology to
the U.S.  He said it was “premature” to judge whether China’s move
to curb the shipments violates World Trade Organization rules.
While China in July said it would cut rare earth export quotas,
it has denied stopping recent shipments to Japan, the U.S. and
Europe.  “It’s important for us to listen to what the Chinese
government has to say on this,” Maehara said. “Shipments to
Japan have actually stopped, but China’s commerce ministry
denies halting them.”  Trawler Collision  Tensions between Asia’s two biggest economies heightened
last month after a Chinese fishing trawler collided with two
Japanese Coast Guard vessels near the islands, known as Senkaku
in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese. Sovereignty over the area
includes rights to undersea natural gas and oil reserves and
China and Japan have yet to implement a 2008 agreement to
jointly develop the gas fields.  Maehara said he would raise the issue in any meeting with
Yang.  Kan and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  agreed to mend fences at
an Oct. 4 meeting in Brussels and may sit down for talks at the
ASEAN leaders’ summit.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:  Norman Pearlstine  in Tokyo at  npearlstine@bloomberg.net ;  Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at   ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Bill Austin
at   billaustin@bloomberg.net ; Brian Fowler at
   bfowler4@bloomberg.net  