-- AIA Said to Rise 9.2% in `Gray Market' After $17.8 Billion IPO
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2010-10-25T18:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/aia-said-to-rise-9-2-in-gray-market-after-17-8-billion-hong-kong-ipo.html
AIA Group Ltd.  climbed 9.2 percent
higher than its initial public offering price in unofficial
over-the-counter trading yesterday after raising $17.8 billion
in its Hong Kong IPO, according to three people with knowledge
of the transactions.  AIA’s shares last traded at HK$21.50 ($2.77) each yesterday
according to gray market transactions brokered by Cantor
Fitzgerald LP, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the information isn’t public. New York-based  American
International Group Inc.’s  main Asia unit priced its IPO at
HK$19.68 a share last week and the stock is scheduled to start
official trading on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on Oct. 29.  AIG sold a 58 percent stake in  AIA  last week to help raise
funds to repay loans in a $182.3 billion U.S. bailout. The IPO
exceeded Beijing-based  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd.’s  $16 billion sale in 2006 to become the biggest in Hong
Kong’s history, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The gray-market price is normally a good indication of
how things are going, particularly in such a big deal like
this,” said  Julian Mayo , who helps oversee about $2.8 billion
as an investment director at Charlemagne Capital in London. AIA
is “a well-regarded business in which people want to
participate,” he said.  Mark Herr , a spokesman for AIG, declined to comment. Sandra
Lee, a spokeswoman for New York-based Cantor, wasn’t immediately
available to comment.  Stock Listing  The gray market is an over-the-counter venue for the
unofficial buying and selling of securities between institutions
before their listing on a stock exchange. AIA’s shares were
actively traded in the gray market, said two of the people, who
declined to give a specific figure for the amount.  Wynn Macau Ltd.  climbed 6.9 percent on its first day of
official trading in Hong Kong on Oct. 9, 2009, after its shares
traded 2.2 percent above its IPO price in the gray market a day
earlier, according to data compiled by PhillipMart in Hong Kong
and Bloomberg.  Alibaba.com Ltd.  surged 193 percent in its debut on Nov. 6,
2007, in Hong Kong, after its shares traded 93 percent above the
IPO price in the gray market six days earlier, data from
Instinet Pacific Ltd. in Hong Kong and Bloomberg show.  Investors, including institutions and individuals in Hong
Kong, had placed orders for over HK$1 trillion of AIA stock,
more than seven times the amount actually raised, two people
familiar with the matter said on Oct. 22. The Kuwait Investment
Authority, Guoco Land Ltd. and Wharf Holdings Ltd. are among
companies that bought stock in the IPO.  AIG  has the option to sell 1.05 billion more shares during
AIA’s first month as a listed company, potentially taking the
total amount raised to $20.5 billion and cutting its stake to 33
percent, according to the  prospectus .  Citigroup Inc. , Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Morgan Stanley led banks arranging the IPO, according to the
document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zijing Wu  in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 