-- AIG Says Benmosche Has Cancer, Undergoing Treatment
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-10-26T13:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/aig-s-benmosche-diagnosed-with-cancer-less-than-two-years-at-company-helm.html
Robert Benmosche , chief executive
officer of  American International Group Inc. , said he was
undergoing treatment for cancer and remained committed to
repaying the insurer’s $182.3 billion taxpayer bailout.  Benmosche, 66, began an “aggressive round of
chemotherapy” last week, he told employees yesterday in a
letter. The New York-based insurer’s board began preparing for a
successor before disclosing Benmosche’s condition late yesterday
because the chief intended to retire in 2012, he told staff.  “While I have every intention of staying on that
timetable, it’s important that we prepare for any alternate plan
that fate may have in mind,” Benmosche said in the letter. “As
for my long-term prognosis -- I will have a better idea over the
next couple of months of what that will look like as I continue
to undergo treatment and my doctors refine their diagnosis.”  Benmosche has presided over a  37 percent  rise in AIG’s
stock this year through yesterday as he announced deals to sell
businesses and repay taxpayers by converting a $49.1 billion
Treasury Department preferred stake into common stock. The
former MetLife Inc. CEO clashed with regulators after starting
at AIG in August 2009 and has since been credited for
stabilizing credit ratings and hiring top managers.  ‘Normal Schedule’  “The good news is that I feel fine, and I continue to work
according to my normal schedule,” Benmosche said. “Frankly,
learning that I have cancer makes me even more committed to
working with all of you to turn AIG into the success story we
all envision. It’s a turnaround I want to complete.”  AIG didn’t say what type of cancer Benmosche has. The
insurer’s board will “engage in appropriate contingency
planning to ensure management continuity,” Chairman  Steve Miller  said in a statement. AIG  gained  5 cents to $41.15 at 9:40
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  There are more than 100 different types of chemotherapy
drugs, many given every two to three weeks, said  Otis Brawley ,
chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society. Without
knowing the type of cancer or the specific treatment, it’s
impossible to predict the severity of side effects, Brawley
said. He declined to comment specifically on Benmosche’s cancer.  Chemotherapy  “There are many aggressive chemotherapy regimens where it
is indeed possible for people to continue to work,” Brawley
said in a telephone interview. “Many people will not want to
work the day they get chemotherapy or the day after, but they
can work for the remainder of the week,” he said. Other
regimens force patients to remain in the hospital, he said.  Chemotherapy got its reputation in the early days of its
use, when high doses of the toxic drugs caused severe bouts of
nausea and vomiting, Brawley said. Medicines developed in the
past decade can keep those symptoms at bay, he said.  AIG has “a lot of seasoned folks” who can take on larger
roles as Benmosche fights cancer, said  Ernest Patrikis , AIG’s
ex-general counsel, who left the insurer in 2006 and is now a
partner at White & Case LLP.  Peter Hancock ,  Thomas Russo ,  Jay Wintrob  and  Kristian Moor  are among the company’s more capable
leaders, Patrikis said in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television.  ‘Thoughts are With Him’  The insurer’s board would probably tap a director as
interim CEO if Benmosche had to step down temporarily, the Wall
Street Journal said, citing an unidentified person familiar with
the matter. The board is scheduled to discuss the issue
tomorrow, the newspaper said.  Treasury Chief Restructuring Officer  Jim Millstein  learned
of Benmosche’s condition yesterday, he said in a statement.  Mark Herr , an AIG spokesman, declined to comment and said Benmosche
and Miller were unavailable.  “Our thoughts are with him and his family, and we wish him
the best of luck with his treatment,” Millstein said. “We are
also very pleased that he is feeling fine and able to continue
his exemplary work at AIG.”  Benmosche helped stabilize  AIG’s ratings  with Standard &
Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service, imposed risk-management
controls and filled manager vacancies, the insurer said in an
August filing.  AIG hired Hancock to oversee finance and risk in February.
Hancock had spent about 20 years at a predecessor to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Russo was hired this year as general counsel,
Wintrob oversees life insurance operations in the U.S., and Moor
manages property-casualty businesses.  “Benmosche has done a good job at shepherding AIG through
some very rough waters, and at times he’s thrown his weight
around,” said  Clark Troy , senior analyst at Aite Group in
Chapel Hill, North Carolina.  Personnel Moves  Benmosche pushed for the ouster this year of former
Chairman  Harvey Golub  because they disagreed about how to
monetize AIA Group Ltd., AIG’s main Asia unit, two people
familiar with the matter said in June. Benmosche also pushed for
the replacement of AIA’s chief,  Mark Wilson , said one of the
people.  Mark Tucker  replaced Wilson in July.  Under Benmosche, who last year became the insurer’s fourth
head since 2008, AIG is focusing on property-casualty coverage
and U.S. life insurance products. The firm is divesting non-U.S.
life units, including AIA and American Life Insurance Co., as
part of a plan to win independence from U.S. oversight.  “Benmosche has had the force of will and skill needed to
move AIG substantially forward,” Troy said in a telephone
interview. “None of his predecessors had that weight.”  AIG is also winding down the derivatives unit responsible
for housing-market losses that pushed the insurer to the brink
of collapse in September 2008. The company’s 2008 bailout
swelled to $182.3 billion, a package that includes a $60 billion
Fed credit facility, a Treasury investment of as much as $69.8
billion and up to $52.5 billion to buy mortgage-linked assets
owned or backed by AIG.  “In the last year, Bob has made a profound impact on AIG,
and under his leadership, AIG has built a very strong management
team that is working hard to repay taxpayers,” Miller said.
“Our thoughts and prayers are with Bob and his family.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  