-- Thailand `Keeping an Eye' on Foreign Capital Inflows, Chatikavanij Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-10-25T17:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/thailand-keeping-an-eye-on-foreign-capital-inflows-chatikavanij-says.html
Thailand is “keeping an eye” on
speculative capital inflows as increasing foreign purchases of
the country’s bonds lead to currency gains, said Finance
Minister  Korn Chatikavanij .  Volatility caused by “excessive” speculation from foreign
investors can be “problematic” for Thailand’s economy,
Chatikavanij said in an interview on Bloomberg Television today.
He also commented on China’s economic adjustment.  On Thailand’s currency, speculation:  “We have not really exercised any capital control so far.
Given that we have an economy that has a strong current account
surplus, high growth rates, low inflation rates, our currency is
naturally going to appreciate and there is no problem with that.
We all need to adjust to the reality on the ground.  “What is problematic, from time to time, is the volatility
caused by excessive short-term speculation. So far, there has
been quite a substantial increase in foreign ownership of local
government bonds. We are keeping an eye on that to see whether
that distorts short-term markets, which could have a negative
impact on our real economy.”  On the monetary policy of developed nations:  “I expect Western economies will also want to see
continued weakness of their currencies in order for them to be
able to export their way out of the current economic malaise.
That is normal. Time for orderly adjustment is always required.  “We are concerned about inflows, but the reality is that
this will continue for some time.”  On China:  “The country is moving in the right direction.  “The Chinese authorities are concentrating on domestic
adjustment. We’ve already seen domestic consumption in China
growing by almost 20 percent this year so far against last year.
Adjustment is taking place.  “We have to give China time. We also have to accept the
fact that the strength of the Chinese economy overall has been a
huge benefit to the world economy during the past year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Brennan  in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net ;
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  