-- Albania Plans to Raise Up to 400 Million Euros From Debut Eurobond Offer
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   H y d e ,   K a t e   H a y w o o d   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-25T12:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/albania-plans-debut-5-year-eurobond-sale-after-delay-update2-.html
Albania is reviving plans to sell
its first bonds in euros as demand for emerging-market debt
pushes the borrowing costs of the poorest nation in the Balkans
lower than that of neighboring Greece.  The country is seeking to sell 300 million euros ($421
million) to 400 million euros of five-year bonds that may be
priced to yield about 7.5 percent, according to two people with
knowledge of the sale. The yield on Greece’s note due August
note due 2015 fell one basis point to 9.68 percent at 1:13 p.m.
in Athens. Greece is rated BB+, the highest non-investment
grade, by Standard & Poor’s, and Albania is rated three steps
lower at B+.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold emerging market
has fallen as much as 106 basis points from this year’s peak to
248 basis points on Oct. 15, a six-month low, as concern eased
Greece will default and near-zero interest rates in Europe and
the U.S. spurred investors to buy higher-yielding securities,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index. Albania shelved
a planned debut offering in April after S&P’s downgrade of
Greece sparked speculation Europe’s debt crisis would escalate.  “Now is probably the right moment to come with a new
issue,”  Stuart Culverhouse , chief economist at investment bank
Exotix Ltd. said by phone from London. “We have seen the flurry
of activity and Albania is able to capture the timing.” The 7.5
percent yield is “reasonably attractive,” he said.  Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the
sale.  Visa-Free Access  The Adriatic Sea nation that became part of North Atlantic
Treaty Organization in April last year will gain visa-free
travel to the European Union along with Bosnia-Herzegovina by
year’s end. The country expects visa-free travel with the 27-
nation bloc to provide the biggest boost to its economy in two
decades,  central bank  Governor  Ardian Fullani  said on Oct. 20.  Albania’s economic growth is expected to accelerate to 3.2
percent in 2011, from 2.6 percent expansion this year, according
to the International Monetary Fund’s  forecasts .  The country is
a potential candidate for EU membership.  “There is a gap in the perception of what people think
about Albania and the underlying creditworthiness of the
country,” Culverhouse said. The country’s economy is a “lot
stronger than perhaps what people give it credit for.”  Albania’s Prime Minister  Sali Berisha  said in January 2008
the country planned its first foreign-currency bond sale in May
of that year. The sale was halted as emerging-market borrowing
costs jumped more than threefold from January to October 2008 as
credit markets froze following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Foreign Remittances  The country relies on annual remittances from abroad
representing about 15 percent of gross domestic product, mostly
from Albanians living in Greece and Italy, according to the  CIA
Factbook . The nation had gross domestic product per capita at
$6,400 in 2009, which compares with Slovenia’s $24,000, the
wealthiest nation in the Balkans.  Albania received a 95 million-euro three-year loan last May
and has $225 million of outstanding restructured bonds due 2025,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the
restructured bonds is 6.37 percent, according to prices on
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  at 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net 
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  