-- Alstom Asks London Court to Block Eurostar Plan to Buy Trains From Siemens
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-10-25T15:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/alstom-asks-london-court-to-block-eurostar-s-plan-to-buy-siemens-trains.html
Alstom SA  asked a London judge to
block Eurostar Group Ltd. from buying trains from  Siemens AG ,
saying that Alstom would suffer “serious and irreparable
harm,” if the German company is allowed to win the bid.  Alstom’s rights to equal treatment, transparency and non-
discrimination under European Union rules were violated by
Eurostar’s bidding process, Sarah Hannaford, a lawyer for
Levallois-Perret, France-based Alstom, told Justice  Geoffrey Vos 
today.  Eurostar  said on Oct. 7 it would buy 10 trains in a contract
worth 600 million euros ($830 million) from Siemens to add
routes and fend off competition from Germany’s  Deutsche Bahn AG ,
which plans services via the tunnel from 2013.  Alstom “will lose a significant competitive advantage in
the developing European market for very high-speed trains” if
Siemens wins the contract, Hannaford said in written arguments  Alstom’s complaint also cites the choice of units with
multiple power sources as a breach of the tunnel’s safety rules.
Current rules say that only trains with power provided by
locomotives at the front or back of the train can go through the
tunnel, Hannaford said in a court document.  Eurostar officials referred to an Oct. 20 press release
that said “the arguments raised by Alstom in support of its
challenge are without foundation.”  “Siemens submitted a bid that was significantly better
than that of Alstom,” the Anglo-French company, which is
controlled by French state rail operator SNCF, said in an e-mail
Oct. 20.  The case, Alstom Transport v. Eurostar International Ltd.,
is being heard at the High Court in London. Lawyers for Siemens
and Eurostar will make their cases later in the hearing, which
is scheduled to last for two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  