-- Aluar, Continental, Cosan, Gerdau, Isagen: Latin America Equity Preview
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-10-25T06:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/aluar-continental-cosan-gerdau-isagen-latin-america-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Latin American trading. Stock symbols
are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous close.  The  MSCI Latin America Index  fell 0.1 percent to 4,447.31.
In Brazil, preferred shares usually are the most-traded class of
stock.  Morgan Stanley cut Latin America’s rating to “underweight”
in the brokerage’s global emerging markets model portfolio and
raised Asia to “overweight.” Morgan Stanley lowered its
recommended weighting for Brazil to “equal-weight” from
“overweight” and Mexico to “underweight” from “equal-weight,”
while Chile was upgraded to “equal-weight.”  Argentina  Aluar Aluminio Argentino SAIC  (ALUA AF): Argentine
industrial output rose 10.1 percent in September from a year
earlier, the national statistics institute said. The nation’s
largest aluminum producer added 0.2 percent to 4.21 pesos.  Brazil  Cosan SA Industria & Comercio  (CSAN3 BZ): The world’s
biggest sugar-cane processor said its net sales rose 32
percent to 4.7 billion reais in the second fiscal quarter,
according to a regulatory filing.  Sugar traders in New York increased their bets that the
commodity will rise, according to the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data. Speculative long positions, or bets
prices will rise, outnumbered short positions by 160,660
contracts on ICE Futures. The stock fell 1.6 percent to 26.1
reais.  Gerdau SA  (GGBR4 BS): Brazil’s tax agency said it will
reduce imports of steel that may have been priced below the cost
of raw materials. Latin America’s largest steelmaker rose 0.5
percent to 20.61 reais.  Colombia  Isagen SA  (ISAGEN CB): The state-controlled power producer
plans to sell 400 billion pesos ($218.7 million) of bonds in
Colombia next month, the company said in a regulatory filing.
The company plans to use the money to finance Sogamoso
hydroelectric project. The shares were unchanged at 2,670 pesos.  Peru  Banco Continental SA  (CONTINC1 PE): The next president of
Peru is unlikely to change the nation’s currency economic
policies after elections in April, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.
The shares of the local unit of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA rose 1.2 percent to 8.65 soles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 dpapadopoulos@bloomberg.net  