-- Amazon.com Says Sales of New Kindle Outstrip Year Ago
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-10-25T16:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/amazon-com-says-sales-of-new-kindle-outstrip-year-ago-update1-.html
Amazon.com Inc. , the world’s largest
online retailer, said sales of the Kindle e-reader it introduced
in July have surpassed total Kindle sales during the final three
months of last year.  The bestselling 1,000 book titles on Amazon are selling
more quickly for the Kindle than in print form, Seattle-based
Amazon also said today in a statement.  The Kindle is growing into a multibillion dollar business
for Amazon, even as Apple Inc. and Barnes & Noble Inc. introduce
competing computers that display digital books. The Kindle will
generate $5.3 billion in sales for Amazon in 2012, an increase
from $2.8 billion this year, according to Caris & Co. That
figure includes sales of books that can be read on the device.  “Although we would not draw specific conclusions in the
absence of actual sales statistics, such releases reinforce our
confidence that Amazon continues to retain a strong foothold
within the book market,”  Imran Khan , an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in a note to investors after the Amazon
announcement.  Amazon doesn’t say how many Kindle devices it has sold, or
how much it generates in revenue from them. Shares rose $1.26 to
$170.39 at 12:04 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  In July, Amazon introduced two new versions of the Kindle,
its best-selling product, including a $139 model that works with
Wi-Fi to download books and a second version with 3G mobile
technology as well as Wi-Fi that costs $189.  The newest Kindles are also lighter and thinner than
previous versions and have faster page turns and sharper
resolution. Apple’s iPad costs $499 to $829 and Barnes & Noble’s
Nook e-reader sells for $149 for Wi-Fi only and $199 for the 3G
and Wi-Fi version.  The overall market for e-readers, not including e-books,
may more than triple to $1.27 billion this year, according to
Yankee Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 