-- American Commercial Lines Sued by Investor Over $777 Million Buyout Offer
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-10-25T20:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/american-commercial-lines-sued-by-investor-over-777-million-buyout-offer.html
American Commercial Lines Inc.  was
sued by an investor who claims a $777 million buyout of the
barge and towboat maker doesn’t provide enough for his shares.  Officials of Jeffersonville, Indiana-based American
Commercial and private-equity firm Platinum Equity LLC
structured the $33-a-share offer in a way that unfairly bars
other bids for the shipping company, American Commercial
shareholder Leonard Becker said in his Delaware Chancery Court
lawsuit.  Investors “will not receive adequate or fair value for
their” shares as part of Beverly Hills, California-based
Platinum’s buyout, Becker said in the Oct. 22 complaint filed in
Wilmington.  American Commercial’s barges carry goods along the U.S.’s
inland waterways, according to the company’s website. Its boats
deliver coal to power plants along the Ohio River and also
operate along the Mississippi River, the website said.  Christopher Black , an American Commercial spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a phone call for comment on Becker’s suit.
Dan Whelan, Platinum’s spokesman, declined to comment.  Companies controlled by billionaire real-estate developer
 Sam Zell , owner of the Chicago Tribune newspaper, control about
25 percent of the company, according to regulatory filings.  Zell has agreed to take $31.25 for each of his American
Commercial shares if the buyout is completed by the end of the
year, according to court papers. If the deal is pushed into
2011, he’ll get the same $33 a share as other investors, court
papers said.  Termination Fee  Becker contends American Commercial’s directors and
Platinum’s executives have included provisions in the buyout bid
designed to fend off other suitors, including a $14 million
termination fee.  “A rival bidder is not likely to emerge with the cards
stacked so much in favor of Platinum,” Becker said in the suit.  Platinum, run by Flint, Michigan, native  Tom Gores , has
made more than 100 acquisitions since Gores founded it in 1995,
company officials said in a September press release. The fund
has more than $27.5 billion in aggregate revenue, officials said
in the release.  Platinum, which was also named as a defendant in Becker’s
suit, is best known as the owner of the San Diego Union-Tribune
newspaper.  The case is Becker v. American Commercial Lines Inc., 5919,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 