-- Anglo Irish Debt Offer May Trigger Payouts on $420 Million Swaps, BNP Says
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-10-25T11:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/anglo-irish-debt-exchange-may-trigger-420-million-default-swaps-bnp-says.html
Anglo Irish Bank Corp.’s offer to
swap subordinated bonds for new notes may trigger payouts on as
much as $420 million of credit-default swap contracts, according
to BNP Paribas SA.  Anglo Irish offered investors a choice of trading 1.6
billion euros ($2.2 billion) of notes at 20 cents on the euro
last week, or redeeming them for 1 cent per 1,000-euro face
amount. Investors will have to approve changes to the terms of
the bonds to exchange them, causing a so-called restructuring
credit event on swaps linked to all of the bank’s debt, said BNP
Paribas credit analyst  Olivia Frieser .  The proposals come after Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
vowed to “address the issue” of junior bondholders taking a
loss on their investments in nationalized banks. The offer is
“tantamount to a default,” and will lead to a downgrade of
Anglo Irish’s  non-senior ratings  to D for “Default” after the
switch, Toronto-based ratings firm DBRS said today.  “Most people will feel compelled to exchange,” London-
based Frieser said. The Irish government is “facing enormous
political pressure not to treat bondholders too well.”  Credit-default swaps insuring 10 million euros of Anglo
Irish’s junior debt for five years cost 7 million euros in
advance and 500,000 euros annually, BNP Paribas prices show.
Contracts on the bank’s senior debt cost 1.35 million euros in
advance and 500,000 euros annually.  Martha Kavanagh, an outside spokeswoman for the bank,
declined to comment.  Bank Nationalized  Anglo Irish was nationalized in January after borrowing
from mostly international investors and lending to property
developers who couldn’t repay loans when the property market
crashed. Commercial real estate prices in Ireland have fallen
about 60 percent since peaking in 2007.  The first opportunity to trigger the swaps is Nov. 23, when
holders of floating-rate lower Tier 2 notes due 2017 will vote
on the debt exchange. The securities are trading at about 20.6
cents on the euro, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The decision on whether buyers of default protection can
demand payment on Anglo Irish debt will be made by a committee
of dealers and investors as members of the International Swaps &
Derivatives Association. Auctions may then be held to determine
the value of the debt and how much should be paid out.  A total 674 contracts protecting a net $420 million of
Anglo Irish’s senior and subordinated debt were outstanding on
Oct. 15, according to the  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp .,
which runs a central registry for the market. Under the terms of
the contracts, holders of swaps linked to both senior and
subordinated debt can demand payment.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  