-- Mantega Calls Brazil's Foreign-Exchange Reaction to G-20 Agreement `Good'
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-10-25T20:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/mantega-sees-good-reaction-to-government-measures-to-stem-real-s-rally.html
Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the reaction of the real to steps aimed at
tempering its gains has been “good” and that the moves could
be scaled back should the dollar and yuan strengthen. The real
rose.  Mantega told reporters in Brasilia today the government
wasn’t considering an income tax on foreigners’ investments in
local government bonds. Still, he said Brazil has not yet used
its “large caliber” weapons to prevent the real from
appreciating should that be necessary.  The real gained 0.6 percent today, reversing earlier
declines, after Mantega’s comments eased concern the government
will step up measures to temper the rally,  Francisco Carvalho ,
head of currency trading at BGC Liquidez DTVM in Sao Paulo, said
in a phone interview.  The government this month tripled a tax foreigners must pay
to buy fixed-income securities in Brazil. It also raised to 6
percent from 0.38 percent the so-called IOF tax foreigners must
pay to enter the derivatives market.  “I feel the reaction has been good,” Mantega said. “We
can even scale back in some measures” should the U.S. and
Chinese currencies gain.  Brazil’s currency, after touching a two-year high of 1.6442
per U.S. dollar on Oct. 14, has fallen to 1.6956.  “Mantega liked the fact that the real has weakened after
the IOF measure,”  Diego Donadio , Latin America strategist at
BNP Paribas in Sao Paulo, said. “Are they going take additional
measures in the short run? It will hinge on the currency’s
performance. If the real strengthens again, new measures will
come.”  Mantega also said today that the country will sell more
real-denominated bonds this year in a bid to reduce foreign
capital inflows. The government will implement a new policy to
step up the sale of real bonds, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  