-- Manuel to Head South Africa's Plans on Building Infrastructure in Africa
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-25T09:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/manuel-to-head-south-africa-s-plans-on-building-infrastructure-in-africa.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
put National Planning Commission head  Trevor Manuel  in charge of
the country’s plans to expand infrastructure development in
Africa, as local newspapers reported he may leave the Cabinet.  Manuel is still the minister in charge of the National
Planning Commission and will take on the Africa infrastructure
role on behalf of Zuma, the minister’s spokesman, Dumisa Jele,
said in a phone interview from Pretoria today. A government
statement yesterday said Manuel’s new job is “in line with the
minister’s national planning responsibilities.”  Business Day and the  Sunday Independent  newspapers, both
based in Johannesburg, have cited unidentified officials over
the past week as saying Manuel may leave the Cabinet and
possibly take up a senior position at the World Bank. The
Presidency’s statement may damp speculation that Manuel is set
to leave his post.  Manuel “is to assist President Jacob Zuma to fulfill his
new responsibility as the African Union champion of the North-
South infrastructure development corridor in the continent,”
the presidency said.  In a separate statement yesterday, the government responded
to media speculation about changes to the Cabinet, saying Zuma
had the final say on appointments.  “Any change to the composition of the executive is the
prerogative of the president,” it said in a statement published
by the South African Press Association today. “Only the
president knows whether or not there will be a reshuffle, what
form it would take if there was one, when it would happen if it
is to happen and other details.”  As finance minister for 13 years prior to assuming his
current post in May last year, Manuel slashed the budget deficit
and introduced  inflation  targeting, policies that were
criticized by labor unions that helped bring Zuma to power.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 