-- Apple Enlists Unisys to Help With Corporate, Government Deals
-- B y   R a c h a e l   K i n g   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-10-25T21:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/apple-enlists-unisys-to-crack-nut-with-pc-based-corporate-u-s-agencies.html
Apple Inc. , maker of the iPhone and
Macintosh computer, has enlisted  Unisys Corp.  to help it sell
more to businesses and U.S. government agencies, expanding
beyond a customer base made mostly of consumers.  Unisys will provide maintenance and other services to
companies and government agencies that purchase Apple devices,
Gene Zapfel, a managing partner at Unisys, said in an interview.
One of the first of its kind for Apple, the contract was signed
this month, Zapfel said. He didn’t discuss terms of the deal.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  is stepping up his
pitch to business users. The company said last week that the
iPhone is being deployed or tested by 80 percent of Fortune 500
companies and the iPad is being used or tested by 65 percent of
Fortune 100 companies. Unisys will help ensure Apple products
work well with a  customer’s  existing computers and systems.  “Most of those organizations are still pretty heavily PC-
based,” Zapfel said. “Apple is going to crack the nut and
clients are going to start buying a lot more.”  Apple has tended to cater mostly to consumers, though it’s
adding corporate customers in part because of widening interest
in other products, such as its mobile phones, said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco.  “Apple will get adoption of more Mac clients in the
enterprise because of the iPhone,” Marshall said, citing the
way users of Apple’s iPod media player helped attract customers
to Macintosh products.  Catering to Companies  The company doesn’t say what portion of its $65.2 billion
in annual sales come from corporations and governments. Apple’s
push for those customers has increased in the past 18 to 24
months, said Marshall, who  recommends  buying Apple shares and
doesn’t own any himself. More than 150 sales people are
dedicated specifically to enterprise customers, he said.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, rose $1.37 to
$308.84 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .
The shares have climbed 47 percent this year. Unisys, based in
Blue Bell, Pennsylvania, added 42 cents to $31.20 on the New
York Stock Exchange. It has slumped 19 percent this year.  Apple spokesman  Steve Dowling  declined to comment.  Even before the partnership, Unisys had begun creating
iPhone applications for government clients. One, used by the
U.S. Department of  Homeland Security , lets border patrol agents
check the status of border-crossing technology from an iPhone.  As part of its arrangement with Apple, Unisys expects to
build applications for other government agencies, he said.  A key to landing the Apple deal was figuring out how to
 secure information  sent over the iPhone, Zapfel said.  “There are all sorts of layers you have to put into it to
make sure nobody can tap into it,” he said. “We’ve put a lot
of heavyweight engineering into securing the device, which,
frankly, no one else has figured out yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachael King  in San Francisco at 
 rking25@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  