-- Large Trucks Must Cut Emissions as Much as 20%, U.S. Says
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-10-25T22:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/large-trucks-in-u-s-must-reduce-emissions-by-up-to-20-in-first-standards.html
Large trucks in the U.S. must cut
emissions as much as 20 percent by 2018, under the first
standards planned for work vehicles, the Obama administration
said in  proposed rules .  Tractor trucks have to meet the 20 percent target, the
Environmental Protection Agency and National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration said today in a  statement . Heavy-duty
pickups and vans must reduce emissions 10 percent for gas
vehicles and 15 percent for diesel-powered models, while buses,
motor homes and garbage trucks must cut emissions 10 percent.  “These are historic standards because they’re the first,”
Luke Tonachel, an analyst at the New York-based Natural
Resources Defense Council, said in an interview. “Heavy trucks
and buses are the energy hogs of America’s roadways.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has been raising
fuel-efficiency standards for vehicles in the U.S. to curb
pollution and reduce oil imports. Obama has said he plans to
make the medium- and heavy-duty truck standards final by July
30, and they would take effect starting with 2014 models.  “This is a transition to more energy efficiency, a
transition to lower pollution,” EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson
said on a conference call with reporters.  The government has never set efficiency targets or goals to
reduce emissions tied to greenhouse gases for heavy-duty trucks
such as those used in construction and hauling. Manufacturers
include  Isuzu Motors Ltd. ,  Daimler AG ,  Volvo AB ,  Hino Motors
Ltd.  and  Paccar Inc.  Standard pickups, sport utilities and
minivans are covered by standards already set for automobiles.  Group Examines Rule  The standards “are feasible and can be attained through
technologies currently available,” said Bill Graves, chief
executive officer of the American Trucking Associations, an
Arlington, Virginia-based trade group for 37,000 companies.  The rule will cost $7.7 billion for actions such as
upgrading engines, tires and aerodynamics, the agencies said.
Benefits will reach $49 billion over the lifetime of vehicles,
counting fuel savings, reduced emissions and lower noise,
according to the proposed rules.  The work trucks covered by the proposal make up 4 percent
of U.S. vehicles while accounting for 20 percent of the oil
consumed, according to the Union of Concerned Scientists, a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based environmental group. Long-haul
tractor-trailers get about 6.5 mpg, the group said.  The proposal affects vehicles with a gross weight of 8,500
pounds or more, except for some sport-utility vehicles, vans
that carry fewer than 13 people and half-ton pickups already
covered by existing regulations, according to a  rules summary .  Voluntary Period  The requirements would be voluntary in 2014 and 2015,
according to the highway-safety agency. While tractors must meet
the new standards, trailers that lack an engine aren’t covered,
according to the summary.  Today’s action follows an April 1 announcement setting
rules to boost U.S. automobile fuel-economy standards by about
30 percent over the next six years. Manufacturers must achieve
an average of 35.5 miles mpg for 2016 model-year cars and light
trucks, up from 27.3 mpg in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 