-- Asian Currencies Climb to 1-Week High as G-20 Pledge Deters Intervention
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-10-25T09:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/asian-currencies-climb-to-1-week-high-as-g-20-pledge-deters-intervention.html
Asian currencies rallied on
speculation regional central banks will refrain from intervening
to weaken their currencies after finance chiefs from the Group
of 20 nations vowed to avoid “competitive devaluation.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, rose to a
one-week high. Malaysia’s ringgit had its biggest gain in seven
weeks while South Korea’s won and Taiwan’s dollar advanced the
most in a week. The G-20 pledged on Oct. 23 to let markets
determine foreign-exchange rates, seeking to deter countries
from devaluing currencies to support exports.  “This is the market’s verdict of the G-20, for exchange
rates to be more market-determined rather than via
intervention,” said  Tim Condon , the Singapore-based head of
Asia research for ING Groep NV. “Asia will implement the spirit
of the G-20 but they won’t want to be seen as caving in. They
may intervene on their currencies but they’ll call it smoothing
operations.”  Singapore’s dollar appreciated 0.8 percent to S$1.2920
against the U.S. currency as of 5:12 p.m. local time, the
biggest gain since May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It rose to as high as S$1.2906, approaching the S$1.2893 level
reached on Oct. 14, the strongest since at least 1981 when
Bloomberg began tracking the currency. Taiwan’s dollar climbed
0.6 percent to NT$30.73, Malaysia’s ringgit advanced 0.6 percent
to 3.0935 and South Korea’s won strengthened 0.6 percent to
1,116.20.  Quantitative Easing  The G-20 statement, which came after finance ministers and
central bankers concluded talks on Oct. 23 in South Korea, was
the first time the group has taken a stance on exchange rates. A
weakening U.S. dollar and China limiting the yuan’s advance have
resulted in countries from South Korea to Brazil restraining
their own currencies to keep their exports competitive. G-20
leaders will meet again on Nov. 11-12 in Seoul.  The Federal Reserve holds its next policy meeting on Nov. 3
with Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaling it may pump more funds
into the system by purchasing assets, a process known as
quantitative easing. The Fed’s push toward a looser monetary
policy is the “wrong way” to stimulate growth and may amount
to a manipulation of the dollar, German Economy Minister Rainer
Bruederle said on Oct. 23.  “The currency war is still very much alive as there is not
sufficient leadership at the G-20 on what happens when the U.S.
moves towards quantitative easing again,” Condon said. “We may
continue to see the  dollar  coming under depreciation pressure in
the run-up to the Federal Open Market Committee’s meeting as
markets continue to price for the Fed’s quantitative easing.
China’s yuan appreciation may become more rapid.”  ‘Currency War’  The won approached a five-month high of 1,110.05 per dollar,
reached Oct. 14, after Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo
said “external uncertainties” that affect interest-rate policy
have been reduced following the meeting over the weekend.  “The G-20 meeting will help the won strengthen since it
will be more difficult for authorities to intervene to control
gains,” said  Ha Joon Woo , a currency trader at Daegu Bank in
Seoul. “But I don’t think the currency war is really over.”  Elsewhere, China’s yuan was little changed at 6.6579 per
dollar, after retreating 0.3 percent last week. Indonesia’s
rupiah advanced 0.4 percent to 8,903. Financial markets in
Thailand and the Philippines were closed today for public
holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 