-- Ask Unions Whether Foreign Money Is Pouring In: Kevin Hassett
-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 2010-10-25T01:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/ask-unions-whether-foreign-money-is-pouring-in-kevin-hassett.html
Foreign money may be having a
profound influence on the U.S. elections, more so than many
people are aware.  I’m talking about the tens of millions of dollars that flow
each year from foreign sources to organizations with an immense
stake in the course of U.S. politics.  More groundless speculation about the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce? No. This is real money going to American labor unions,
an influx of foreign cash that is now harder to trace thanks to
actions taken by President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  This is the same Obama who is riling Democratic campaign
rallies with warnings, backed by no evidence, that Republican
“front groups” and even the U.S. Chamber of Commerce may be
using money from foreign interests to support Republicans.  “Tens of billions of dollars are pouring in” to “special
interests,” Obama told supporters at a rally on Oct. 15 for
 Chris Coons , the Democratic nominee for Senate in Delaware.
“And they don’t have the courage to stand up and disclose their
identities. They could be insurance companies or Wall Street
banks or even foreign-owned corporations. We will not know
because there’s no disclosure.”  Here are some things we do know:  Unions and corporations got the green light from the U.S.
Supreme Court earlier this year to spend their own money on
political advertising. The 1.6 million-member American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees is, for now,
the biggest outside spender of the 2010 elections, according to
the Wall Street Journal. And America’s unions, which are among
Obama’s biggest political backers, rake in foreign money by the
bushel.  Loophole Lives  According to financial reports filed with the Labor
Department -- and  available online  -- unions received at least
$46 million from foreign sources in 2008 alone.  Even this most basic of public disclosure is in peril. The
Obama administration has abandoned a reasonable effort to close
a huge loophole that allows unions to avoid reporting
requirements by creating exempt offspring organizations.  Historically, unions have been required to fill out the
Department of Labor’s Form LM-2, which, among other things,
details their revenue sources and major contributors. A number
of holes in the reporting requirement developed over time,
including exemptions for union subsidiaries, such as the AFL-
CIO-affiliated  Working America , and trusts in which unions have
interests, including strike funds, credit unions, pension plans,
training funds and apprenticeship programs.  No Paper Trail  At least hypothetically, funds from non-U.S. sources could
flow through such organizations to political activities, and the
public would not be able to follow the paper trail.  President  George W. Bush ’s administration tried to close
down the potential for these financial shell games. In 2008 it
issued a rule requiring unions to file a new form, the T-1,
detailing the finances of trusts in which they have a
controlling interest or to which they have supplied at least 50
percent of the revenue.  The fate of the T-1 was probably sealed when Obama took
office in 2009 and nominated as his labor secretary  Hilda Solis ,
a California congresswoman who was a director and former
treasurer of  American Rights at Work , an organization funded by
the AFL-CIO and other unions. She had been one of organized
labor’s foremost champions in Congress, voting with the AFL-CIO
97 percent of the time and receiving three-quarters of her
campaign funds from organized labor.  Come Together  Solis  stopped the T-1  in its tracks. The Labor Department’s
new rule, proposed on Feb. 2, 2010, would remove the requirement
that financial information be disclosed for organizations that
are not wholly owned subsidiaries of a single union.  In other words, if a union sets up a subsidiary on its own,
the public can monitor its income and spending. If it joins with
a few of its friends to do so, the public is in the dark on
matters such as whether it receives money from outside the U.S.  It’s illegal for a non-U.S. citizen or corporation to spend
money in connection with a U.S. election -- a prohibition, it’s
worth noting, that hasn’t stopped Obama and his backers from
dishing accusations against the Chamber of Commerce and other
Republican-allied groups. But money is fungible, of course, so
even for law-abiding unions, having tens of millions of dollars
on hand from foreign sources could free up more domestic cash
for political activities.  Of foreign-money suspicions directed at Republicans, the
Annenberg Public Policy Center’s Factcheck.org website  said :  “Democrats, from President Barack Obama on down, are
trying to turn an evidence-free allegation into a major campaign
theme, claiming that foreign corporations are ‘stealing our
democracy’ with secret, illegal contributions funneled through
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. It’s a claim with little basis in
fact.”  This same disregard for facts might explain why the Obama
administration wants to limit, rather than increase, available
information about an actual -- not imagined -- avenue of foreign
money into American affairs.  ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  