-- Australian Dollar Gains as Quickening Inflation Spurs Bets on Higher Rates
-- B y   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-25T17:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/australia-s-dollar-rises-as-surging-producer-prices-bolster-rate-prospects.html
The Australian dollar rose to within
one U.S. cent of parity after a government report showed
producer prices rose faster than economists forecast, adding to
prospects the central bank will raise interest rates next month.  The so-called Aussie also strengthened for a second day
before a report this week that economists said will show
consumer inflation accelerated last quarter. New Zealand’s
dollar also advanced on speculation a pledge by Group of 20
officials to avoid weakening currencies will calm concern over
trade tensions and spur demand for higher-yielding assets.  “Prospects for the resumption of interest-rate increases
are strengthening,” said  Daisaku Ueno , president in Tokyo at
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of Japan’s largest
currency margin company. “This is giving a strong impetus to
buy the Aussie.”  Australia’s currency climbed to 99.24 U.S. cents at 1:29
p.m. in New York from 98.28 cents last week, after earlier
rising to 99.74 cents, the strongest since it briefly reached
parity on Oct. 15. The currency advanced 0.1 percent to 80.08
yen.  New Zealand’s dollar gained 0. 8 percent to 75.30 cents,
and was little changed at 60.75 yen.  Australian  producer prices  advanced 1.3 percent from the
second quarter, when they gained 0.3 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney. Consumer prices rose 0.8 percent in
the third quarter, after increasing 0.6 percent the prior
period, according to a separate survey before the Oct. 27
report.  Rate Bets  There is a 52 percent chance the Reserve Bank of Australia
will increase its target rate when it meets Nov. 2, according to
an  index  compiled by Credit Suisse AG. The probability was as
low as 31 percent on Oct. 14.  Benchmark rates are 4.5 percent in  Australia  and 3 percent
in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the U.S. and
Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  Both the South Pacific currencies advanced after G-20
officials meeting in South Korea on Oct. 22-23 pledged to
refrain from “competitive devaluation” and to let markets set
foreign-exchange values.  Joint Stance  This was the first time economic policy makers took a joint
stance on exchange rates after previously resisting such actions
for fear of alienating China. The G-20 statement still recycles
language used at previous leaders’ summits in London and Toronto
and falls short of the currency accords of the 1980s.  “The general pledge to avoid competitive devaluation
probably reduces the risk of a trade war,”  Gareth Berry , a
currency strategist at UBS AG in Singapore, wrote in a note to
clients. “It should be broadly positive for risk appetite and
would likely be supportive of the Australian dollar, the
Canadian dollar,” and the Nordic and emerging-market
currencies, he said.  Australia’s dollar also rose as  Singapore Exchange Ltd. 
offered about A$8.4 billion ($8.3 billion) in cash and stock to
buy ASX Ltd., the operator of the Australian stock exchange.  The Aussie extended its advance after RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said flexible exchange rates alone won’t spur growth or
rebalance the global economy.  “We should be realistic about how much difference
exchange-rate flexibility would make to the unbalanced nature of
growth in the global economy,” Stevens said in prepared remarks
in Canberra today. The policy is definitely part of the answer
and is in the interests of countries with closely managed rates
“but it is no panacea,” he said.  The Australian dollar has had the second-biggest advance
this year after the yen among the greenback’s 16 most-traded
counterparts.  “Investors seem to have taken Stevens’ comment as signs of
his acceptance of a strong Aussie,” said  Takashi Kudo , general
manager of market information service at NTT SmartTrade Inc., a
unit of Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 