-- Australia's Inflation Rate Probably Slipped as RBA to Debate Rate Increase
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 2010-10-25T23:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/australia-s-inflation-rate-probably-slipped-as-rba-to-debate-rate-increase.html
Australia’s  consumer prices  probably
rose at a slower pace in the third quarter, intensifying debate
over whether the central bank should resume raising interest
rates as wholesale costs climb and employment accelerates.  The consumer price index rose 0.8 percent in July-to-
September, for an annual gain of 2.9 percent, according to the
median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . The  Bureau of
Statistics  release is scheduled for 11:30 a.m. tomorrow in
Sydney, six days before Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board review the overnight cash rate target.  The report may help sway policy makers who viewed an Oct. 5
decision to hold the benchmark rate at 4.5 percent as “finely
balanced,” with a case for a rate increase. A report yesterday
showed prices paid to Australian producers rose last quarter by
the most in almost two years, prompting traders to boost odds of
higher borrowing costs by year-end.  “The RBA probably will be reluctant to pause for too much
longer,” said  Helen Kevans , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Sydney. With “the medium-term inflation outlook
deteriorating, the argument for further tightening already is
strong.”  The producer price index advanced 1.3 percent in the third
quarter, more than double the median estimate of a 0.5 percent
gain in a Bloomberg survey of 21 economists. The data “adds to
concerns over the medium-term inflation outlook,” Westpac
Banking Corp. economists said in a research note yesterday.  Rate Pauses  Stevens kept borrowing costs unchanged for a fifth meeting
earlier this month, after boosting the benchmark lending rate by
150 basis points from early October 2009 to May this year, from
a half-century low of 3 percent.  Stevens and his board aim to keep inflation in a range of 2
percent to 3 percent on average.  Members of parliament are sensitive about the RBA’s rate
increases as more than two-thirds of the population own homes,
compared with less than 50 percent in some European nations.
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  has urged banks not to boost borrowing
costs by more than any central bank increases.  The central bank’s rate increases have helped stoke a 10
percent gain in the nation’s currency against the U.S. dollar
this year, the second-best performer among the 16 most actively
traded currencies.  Australian Dollar  The local dollar reached 99.18 U.S. cents before trading at
98.95 cents as of 10:48 a.m. in Sydney, from 99.05 cents in New
York yesterday when it reached 99.74 cents, the strongest since
it briefly reached parity on Oct. 15.  Traders are betting there’s a 48 percent chance of a
quarter-percentage-point increase in the  benchmark rate  to 4.75
percent next week, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange at 10:22 a.m.
There is a 70 percent chance of a move in December.  “The case to wait before making a tightening move was that
the economy was still expected to continue growing at trend in
the near term, credit growth had softened somewhat and the rise
in the exchange rate would, if it continued, effectively be
tightening financial conditions at the margin,” the RBA said in
minutes of its Oct. 5 meeting released in Sydney last week.  Inflation was expected to “remain in the target range over
the near term” and the currency’s rise would “help promote
this outcome,” the minutes showed.  Core Rate  Core inflation, as measured by the central bank’s so-called
trimmed mean gauge, probably ran at 2.6 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
predict.  “Indeed, excess capacity in the economy is limited and,
with the terms of trade soaring and wage pressure building, we
believe the RBA probably will be reluctant to pause for too much
longer,” Kevans said.  Australia is undergoing a hiring boom as companies such as
BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group increase shipments of iron
ore and coal to China.  A report published since the bank’s October meeting showed
Australian employers in September added the most workers in
eight months. The number of people employed rose 49,500 from
August, more than double the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey, the Oct. 7 report showed.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Canberra at 
 heath1@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Petrie  in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  