-- Australian Dollar May Test One-Month Low Versus Yen: Technical Analysis
-- B y   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2010-10-25T22:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/australian-dollar-may-test-one-month-low-versus-yen-technical-analysis.html
The Australian dollar, which hit a
five-month high of 81.83 yen on Oct. 7, may fall toward the
lowest in more than one month based on a so-called ichimoku
chart, according to Ueda Harlow Ltd., citing trading patterns.  Australia’s currency has fallen below its short-term
conversion line while also failing to advance past the Oct. 7
high, signaling its upward momentum has peaked, said  Toshiya Yamauchi , a senior foreign-exchange analyst at the online
currency-trading company in Tokyo.  “If the currency were to undergo a mild correction phase,
as technical charts suggest, it may extend its downturn to
around 78 yen, a level where the upper end of the so-called
ichimoku cloud exists,” he said.  The Australian dollar traded at 79.98 yen as of 9:10 a.m.
in Sydney. The last time the currency was traded below 78 yen
was Sept. 15.  The baseline on a daily ichimoku chart is at 80.26, and the
conversion line is at 80.03 yen.  Ichimoku analysis, developed by a Japanese journalist in
the 1940s, is used to predict a currency’s direction through
analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and lows. The
conversion line plots the sum of the highest high and lowest low
over the last nine trading days. The baseline is the same
calculation over the past 26 days.  An ichimoku cloud refers to the area between the first and
second leading span lines on the chart and is used to show an
area where buy orders may be clustered.  Australia’s dollar may re-test the Oct. 7 high on
speculation investors the Reserve Bank of Australia will resume
interest rate increases, Yamauchi said.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
 Hiroko Komiya  in Tokyo at 
 Hkomiya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 