-- Bair Says Regulators Will Uncover More Flaws in Foreclosures
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-10-25T17:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/bair-says-u-s-regulators-will-likely-uncover-more-flaws-in-foreclosures.html
Regulators are likely to discover
more problems related to  loan servicing  by some of the biggest
banks as they probe claims that documents were mishandled,
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  said.  “We are going to get into more and more problems with the
issues that are surfacing now on servicing,” Bair said today at
a housing  conference  in Arlington, Virginia. Resulting
litigation could “ultimately be very damaging to our housing
markets if it ends up prolonging those foreclosures that are
necessary and justified,” she said. Bair didn’t provide details
on what other problems she thought might arise.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Bank of America Corp.  and Ally
Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage unit are among loan servicers
that temporarily halted foreclosures to review paperwork after
court documents showed employees may have submitted affidavits
without confirming their accuracy.  The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency are conducting joint examinations,
with teams inside the firms responsible for handling mortgage
payments from homeowners. Results of those exams will determine
the federal government’s next steps, Bair said.  “Ultimately this problem will require some type of global
solution,” she said. “In developing that solution, I would
suggest that all interested parties consider some type of triage
on foreclosures” such as safe harbor relief for vacant
properties or interest-rate reductions for borrowers.  Bair said she doesn’t think congressional legislation will
be needed to address the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  