-- Banco Popolare Declines the Most in Five Months on Planned Rights Offering
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-10-25T16:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/banco-popolare-falls-as-much-as-5-7-in-milan-on-after-rights-offer-plan.html
Banco Popolare SC  fell the most in
more than five months in Milan trading after the Italian bank
said it plans to raise 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) in a
rights offer to boost capital.   Banco Popolare  declined 24 cents, or 5.6 percent, to 4.055
euros, its biggest drop since May 14, giving the company a
market value of 2.6 billion euros.  “The size of the capital increase and the lack of capital
hike details will likely weigh on the share price until the
completion of the transaction,” analysts at Mediobanca SpA,
which has an “underperform” rating on the stock, wrote in a
note today. The lender was cut to “underweight” at Gruppo
Banca Leonardo and to “hold” at Equita Sim SpA and Banca
Akros.  Chief Executive Officer  Pier Francesco Saviotti  is cutting
costs and shedding non-strategic assets to recover from losses
linked to Banca Italease SpA. The lender, which passed the
European Union’s stress test in July, joins  Deutsche Bank AG  and
Standard Chartered Plc in raising more surplus capital than the
minimum required by international regulators.  Dividend Speculation  Italian banks including Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena
SpA,  UniCredit SpA  and Intesa SanPaolo SpA also declined on
speculation they may need to raise funds or cut their annual
dividend payouts to meet new Basel capital requirements.  Monte dei Paschi, which said today it isn’t considering a
capital increase, fell 3.4 percent to 1.049 euros. UniCredit
declined 0.8 percent, while Intesa dropped 2.6 percent.  Italian banks may consider slashing dividends rather than
selling new shares in order to meet new Basel requirements, the
Financial Times reported today, citing unnamed banking
executives.  Banco Popolare’s rights offer will help the bank repay the
1.45 billion euros of government aid it received last year,
anticipate complying with more stringent capital requirements
and guarantee a favorable market position, the Verona-based
company said in a statement yesterday.  The rights offer is being arranged by Mediobanca and Bank
of America Merrill Lynch, which are also underwriting it along
with Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net 
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  