-- Italian Stocks: Bulgari, Intesa, MPS, Popolare, Prelios, Tod’s
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-25T15:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/banco-popolare-rcs-tod-s-unicredit-italian-equity-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index 
retreated for a second day, losing 101.18, or 0.5 percent, to
21,435.03 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Milan.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  Arena Agroindustrie Alimentari SpA  (ARE IM) jumped 23
percent to 3.2 euro cents, the highest in more than six months.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Raffaello Lombardi , board
member  Emilio Sorgi  and partners agreed to buy Dante di Dario
and Partners Sas’s stake in Agrinvest SpA, which owns 21 percent
of Arena, according to a statement distributed by the Italian
exchange after the closing of trading on Oct. 22.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  (BMPS IM) sank 3.4
percent to 1.05 euros, ending a six-day gain. Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA,  UniCredit SpA  (UCG IM), and  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA  (ISP IM) may cut dividends to avoid holding rights offerings
to meet new banking capital standards, the Financial Times said,
citing an unnamed senior bank executive and a director.  BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research said in a note that the
planned share sale by Banco Popolare SC “raises the spotlight
on capital needs at Italian banks.” The brokerage said that
“the bank most affected by the application of Basel III is
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena.” The bank isn’t considering a
capital increase, a spokeswoman for Banca Monte dei Paschi said
by phone today.  Intesa shares lost 2.6 percent to 2.59 euros. UniCredit
shares fell 0.8 percent to 1.89 euros.  Banco Popolare SC  (BP IM) plummeted 5.6 percent to 4.06
euros, the lowest since April last year. Italy’s fifth-biggest
bank said its board approved a plan for a share sale of as much
as 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion).  Banco Popolare was cut to “underweight” at Gruppo Banca
Leonardo, to “hold” at Equita Sim SpA and Banca Akros, and to
“sell” at Hammer Partners.  Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. said in a note that “given
the large amount, the share price could suffer in the short
term.” The brokerage noted that “Banco Popolare has
underperformed Italian banks by 15 percent in the last month, a
sign that the market has already partly anticipated the dilution
from the rights issue.”  Bulgari SpA  (BUL IM), the world’s third-largest jeweler,
advanced 2.9 percent to 7.9 euros. Luxury-goods makers gained
across Europe after LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA agreed
to buy a 17.1 percent stake in Hermes International SCA.  Mediobanca Securities upgraded Bulgari to “outperform”
from “neutral” because it “seems the best positioned” among
Italian luxury-goods companies “to experience strong earnings
momentum in the wake of sparkling growth prospects in China and
other developing economies”  Luxottica Group SpA  (LUX IM), the biggest maker of glasses,
gained 2.2 percent to 21.36 euros. The company reports quarterly
earnings today.  Pirelli & C. SpA  (PC IM) increased 1.4 percent to 6.26
euros. Mediobanca Securities reiterated an “outperform” rating
on the company following the distribution of the Pirelli Real
Estate SpA shares. It said in a note that “this is the positive
finalization of the transformation process of Pirelli that from
now on will be a pure tire player.  Prelios SpA  (PRS IM), formerly known as Pirelli Real
Estate, surged 9 percent to 43.5 euro cents. Equita Sim SpA
lifted its recommendation to “buy” and added the stock to its
“small caps portfolio.” The brokerage said in a note that
“the overhang can offer the opportunity for an entry price that
is even more interesting than the current market price.”  STMicroelectronics NV  (STM IM) climbed 2 percent to 5.94
euros, as the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index headed for the
highest in almost three months. The chipmaker is due to release
results after the closing of U.S. markets.  Telecom Italia SpA  (TIT IM) dropped 1.4 percent to 1.07
euros, losing for a second day. Italy’s biggest phone company
will reduce salaries by 15 percent and working hours for up to
29,000 employees in two of its units to avoid job cuts, Corriere
della Sera said, citing an e-mail sent by the Chief Executive
Officer  Franco Bernabe  to labor unions.  UniCredit Research downgraded Telecom Italia to “hold”
from “buy.” The brokerage suggested taking profits after the
recent outperformance.  Tod’s SpA  (TOD IM) rose 2 percent to 69.29 euros. The
luxury group’s founder,  Diego Della Valle , told Il Sole 24 Ore
that his 19.01 percent stake in U.S. department-store  Saks Inc. 
is a “great opportunity” and has “enormous potential for
expansion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 