-- Bank of America Says Lombardy Agreed to Terms of Swaps Contract
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-10-25T15:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/bank-of-america-says-lombardy-agreed-to-terms-of-swaps-contract.html
Bank of America Corp.  said the
region of Lombardy agreed to all the terms of a $1 billion swap,
including covering some of the lender’s potential losses, in a
contract that the Italian municipality says is unfair.  Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit, which is suing the
region of Lombardy, met its obligations and isn’t liable for
costs incurred by Lombardy, the bank said in papers filed at a
London court on Oct. 6. Merrill Lynch and  UBS AG , in separate
lawsuits, asked the court in July to confirm that derivatives
contracts with the Italian region are valid. Officials at Bank
of America declined to comment today.  Lombardy “was acting for its own account and had made its
own independent decisions to enter the transaction and as to
whether the transaction was appropriate or proper for it based
upon its own judgment,” Merrill Lynch said in the lawsuit.  The region is seeking 95.3 million euros ($133 million) in
damages from Bank of America and UBS, alleging that contracts
with the banks are unfair and invalid, Bank of America said in
the papers detailing its claim.  Italian municipalities from the southern region of Apulia
to the city of Milan in the north are in dispute over derivative
agreements amid potential losses of about 1.1 billion euros,
according to data compiled by the Bank of Italy. A court earlier
this month said a derivatives agreement between UniCredit SpA
and the city of Rimini was void and the bank must return about
650,000 euros to the borrower.  Officials at Lombardy, home to Italy’s financial capital
Milan, and UBS weren’t immediately available to comment.  Swap Agreement  The case centers on a 2002 derivatives agreement between
the banks and the region that changed the way Lombardy would
repay a $1 billion bond. Under the deal, Lombardy would repay
the bond in installments over a period of time instead of making
a so-called bullet repayment when the bond matured. The banks
also set up a fund that would invest the city’s payments in
securities such as bonds before paying off the 30-year bond.  Lombardy agreed that Merrill Lynch could invest in
securities such as corporate bonds that might be less liquid
than government bonds and that the fund could have “certain
leveraged positions,” according to the bank. The municipality
also agreed to pay Merrill Lynch the difference between the
market value of bonds and their principal value in the event of
a default, Merrill said in the court filing.  An investigation by Milan’s prosecutor said the banks hid
95 million euros in fees when they sold the region derivatives.
The prosecutor dropped his criminal probe earlier this year
because it would have breached the statute of limitations.  Lombardy hired Italian lawyers in June to prepare a civil
suit against the firms. The banks pre-empted an Italian filing
by submitting a claim in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  