-- Banks Market Hilton, Extended Stay Commercial-Property Debt
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-10-25T19:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/bank-of-america-goldman-marketing-2-66-billion-of-hilton-cmbs.html
Banks are marketing more than $4.6
billion of bonds tied to hotel loans, signaling increased
confidence that commercial-property investments will rebound as
the economy grows.  Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are
selling $2.66 billion of securities backed by debt from the 2007
buyout of Hilton Worldwide in the largest sale of its kind this
year. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG are offering $2
billion of debt tied to Extended Stay Inc., the hotel operator
that exited bankruptcy this month.  Wall Street is seeking to unload debt tied to hotels, which
have more than twice the delinquency rate of office buildings
and shopping malls, as the Federal Reserve spurs demand for
higher-risk assets by holding the benchmark interest rates near
zero to fuel the economy.  “Hotels were the first ones to get rocked and in some
respects have the most upside,” said  Andrew Parower , a money
manager at Marketfield Asset Management LLC, a New York-based
firm that runs a $250 million commercial-mortgage backed
securities fund. “They got beaten up so quickly and so badly.
It’s a leveraged bet on the economy.”  Hotels are the worst-performing property type in the
commercial-mortgage bond market after households and businesses
curbed travel budgets during the economic recession. Moody’s
Investors Service said in an Oct. 14 report that 15.94 percent
of loans tied to hotels are behind on payments. That compares
with a 6.6 percent delinquency rate on shopping centers and
malls, and a 6.4 percent rate for office buildings, according to
Moody’s.  Rates Reset  While delinquency rates are higher, hotel rates reset every
night, which allows operators to respond more quickly to an
improving economy, according to an Oct. 22 report from Wells
Fargo Securities LLC. Office and retail buildings may lag behind
a recovery by up to 18 months because they’re tied to longer-
term leases, the report said.  Even though the recession ended in June 2009, defaults in
commercial real estate are still mounting, and may not peak
until 2011 or later, Standard and Poor’s said today in a report.  Blackstone Group LP, the world’s largest private-equity
firm, bought Hilton in July 2007 near the top of the real-estate
market for about $26 billion, including assumed debt. The
transaction was financed with $20.6 billion of mortgage and
mezzanine debt and about $5.7 billion of equity from New York-
based Blackstone.  Hilton completed a deal to reduce debt by almost $4 billion
and extend its maturity to November 2015 in April.  Extended Stay, which filed the largest bankruptcy by a U.S.
hotel owner in 2009, exited bankruptcy this month after its
$3.93 billion sale to Centerbridge Partners LP, Paulson & Co.
and Blackstone was completed.  Debt Burden  The company cut its debt burden by almost $5 billion in the
bankruptcy process, the Spartanburg, South Carolina-based
company said in an Oct. 8 statement.  The Extended Stay bonds being marketed today are secured by
664 hotels, said a person familiar with the situation, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t public.
California accounts for 21.8 percent of the pool, followed by
Texas with 8.33 percent and Florida with 7.02 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The unrated Hilton offering matures in as soon as 2.86
years, and is comprised of interest in all the assets of Hilton
worldwide, according to a person familiar with the Hilton sale,
who also declined to be identified because terms aren’t public.  Sales of bonds tied to commercial property loans are
rising, with about $5.5 billion of the debt sold in 2010, up
from $3.4 billion last year, Bloomberg data show. Issuance
tumbled 95 percent to $11.2 billion in 2008 from a record $234
billion in 2007 as the credit crisis sapped demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  