-- Bank of Japan May Consider Buying Foreign Currency Assets, Minister Says
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   T a t s u o   I t o
-- 2010-10-25T07:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/bank-of-japan-may-consider-buying-foreign-currency-assets-minister-says.html
The Bank of Japan may want to
consider buying foreign-currency assets to help ease the yen’s
appreciation, Economic Minister  Banri Kaieda  said.  “Such purchases can be an option for the central bank over
the medium- to long-term,” Kaieda said in an interview in Tokyo
on Oct. 22. “They would be effective” in curbing the Japanese
currency’s gains, he said.  While the Bank of Japan could consider making purchases at
some point, it’s not an option now because it might be regarded
as a form of currency intervention, two central bank officials
said on condition of anonymity. At a time when global policy
makers are discussing how to avoid competitive devaluations, the
bond buys may not appear appropriate, one of the officials said.  Kaieda’s remarks come as Japanese policy makers struggle to
stop the yen’s advance and lift the country out of deflation
using fiscal and monetary policy steps. The yen appreciated this
month to its strongest level against the dollar since 1995,
threatening Japan’s export-dependent recovery, even after its
central bank loosened credit.  Foreign-asset purchases may support demand for the dollar
and other currencies and help to weaken the relative strength of
yen, which has gained more than 5 percent since Japan stepped
into the currency market for the first time in six years on Sept.
15.  BOJ Balance Sheet  At the same time, any purchases of foreign assets mustn’t
erode the health of the central bank’s balance sheet, Kaieda
said. The Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 created a 5 trillion-yen fund
($62 billion) to buy assets including government and corporate
bonds and exchange-traded funds, and pledged to keep rates near
zero until deflation can be beaten.  Japan’s currency strengthened to a 15-year high of 80.85 to
the dollar on Oct. 20. It traded at 80.72 at 3:55 p.m. in Tokyo
today.  “If the BOJ embarks on aggressive policies, its action
will be accompanied by risks,” Kaieda said. “It’s necessary to
discuss how the bank can contain those risks” and avert the
erosion of its trust in the institution.  Debt buying by the central bank shouldn’t be seen as an
alternative to currency intervention, the economy minister said.
The Japanese Finance Ministry oversees currency policy while the
Bank of Japan is in charge of price stability.  ‘Casually Jump’  “We shouldn’t casually jump on the measure” of buying
foreign debt instead of intervening in the currency market to
curb the yen’s appreciation, the minister said.  Kaieda said he welcomes the BOJ’s latest decision to
increase asset purchases because the bank is “reversing its
previous stance that there is little it can do with interest
rates lowered near zero.”  “We appreciate that the BOJ is meeting the government’s
expectations with the various measures,” Kaieda said, while
adding that he has “questions” about whether the fund is large
enough.  BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said this month the central
bank may expand the fund if necessary to explore more monetary
easing measures.  Deflation End  Kaieda also said the government would be able to conclude
that deflation has ended should consumer prices achieve stable
gains, which he views as continuous price increases for at least
a quarter or two.  Given that a stronger yen makes imports cheaper and
depresses prices, ending deflation may be delayed beyond the
fiscal year starting April 2011, he said. The government had
said in June it wanted prices to increase in that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
 Tatsuo Ito  in Tokyo at 
 tito2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  