-- Bats BZX Exchange, C2 Options Exchange Plan Fee Changes for Equity Trading
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-10-25T23:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/bats-bzx-exchange-c2-options-exchange-plan-fee-changes-for-equity-trading.html
Bats Global Markets, the Kansas
City, Missouri-based exchange that accounted for about 10
percent of U.S. equities volume in September, will raise fees
and rebates for users of its Bats BZX Exchange in November.  Bats BZX Exchange will charge anyone executing against
orders on the platform 28 cents for 100 shares, up from 25 cents
now. It will rebate traders and investors who supply bids and
offers 27 cents for 100 shares, up from 24 cents, according to a
statement on PR Newswire. Since Bats is boosting its fees and
rebates by the same amount, its profit on each transaction will
stay the same.  Thirteen U.S. stock exchanges, including one started this
month by Bats and one by  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. , are battling to
attract orders in a fragmented market dominated by electronic
traders. Markets try to differentiate themselves based on their
rules, fees and how they match orders. Among major exchange
operators, Bats has made the fewest fee changes in the last
three years. NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and Direct
Edge Holdings LLC have altered their pricing more frequently.  “Their old pricing was an attempt to satisfy separate
constituencies with one pricing schedule,” said  Justin Schack ,
a director in market structure analysis at institutional broker
Rosenblatt Securities Inc. in New York. “Now that Bats has two
markets, they can more finely tune their pricing in each market
to those groups.”  Finding Balance  Exchanges must find a balance between rebates high enough
to attract bids and offers from automated market makers and fees
low enough to attract broker algorithms, strategies that
transact larger orders in smaller pieces to avoid moving the
price, Schack said. Most markets use the execution fee to fund
the rebates they provide.  Bats’ other market, Bats BYX Exchange, gives a 3-cent
rebate per 100 shares to investors trading against orders at the
venue. This inverts the traditional model in which such
customers would normally pay to access liquidity.  BYX competes with EDGA Exchange, Nasdaq OMX BX and CBOE
Stock Exchange for orders from brokers and customers interested
in paying less to trade immediately. NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq
OMX are based in New York. CBOE Holdings Inc., which also
operates a stock market, has its headquarters in Chicago.  Execution Pricing  “There’s greater recognition on the part of market
participants that what you pay for executions matters and can
add up to a lot of money,” Schack said. “Brokers are managing
their margins by trading on markets where access fees are
lower.”  With more brokers turning to lower-cost venues, EDGA for
the first time outpaced EDGX Exchange volume this month through
Oct. 22, according to  Rafi Reguer , a spokesman for Jersey City,
New Jersey-based Direct Edge, which operates the markets. EDGX’s
pricing is higher than EDGA’s. CBSX, one of the smaller stock
markets, pays the highest rebate to those trading against bids
and offers in many active stocks and exchange-traded funds.  Exchanges are also trying to distinguish themselves by
attracting larger trades. The New York Stock Exchange began
providing investors with information about the availability of
orders totaling at least 10,000 shares earlier this month. NYSE
Amex, another market run by NYSE Euronext, introduced pricing
that rewards firms for placing larger orders in certain
securities. Nasdaq OMX PSX offers a new scheme for matching buy
and sell orders that benefits firms willing to trade more
shares.  Options Orders  Separately, a new equity derivatives market from  CBOE
Holdings  set to begin trading on Oct. 29 said it will use maker-
taker pricing employed by rivals of the Chicago Board Options
Exchange. Unlike the CBOE, the oldest and largest bourse, C2
Options Exchange will have different pricing for liquidity
providers and takers. C2 will be the ninth options market, more
than doubling the number a decade ago.  Maker-taker pricing is becoming more attractive to
liquidity providers in the options markets in part because
volatility is declining, Schack said. When  volatility  is higher,
market makers don’t object to paying discount brokers for order
flow because the spread between the bid and offer prices is
bigger, translating into more profit.  As volatility and spreads decrease, they may want to get
more money through rebates, he said. C2 will also trade options
electronically on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which are
currently only available on CBOE.  Christopher Allen , an analyst at Ticonderoga Securities LLC
in New York, said at a conference earlier this month that
options exchange have proliferated to the point where potential
shareholders may be driven away. He said three or four markets
would be better than the current eight.  “There’s more experimentation and frankly more competition
among exchanges” as new venues appear, Schack said. “It’s
getting more intense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 