-- Battle Cry Resounds in Hamburg as Spending Cuts Decimate Museum
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2010-10-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/battle-cry-resounds-in-hamburg-as-spending-cuts-decimate-museum-theater.html
Hamburg’s main theater, the
 Deutsches Schauspielhaus , has temporarily traded its gentle
dolphin logo for a vicious shark.  “This is a battle cry,”  Florian Vogel , the theater’s
deputy artistic director, explained in a meeting room backstage.
“We have to fight back and defend ourselves.”  The theater’s opponent is the  Hamburg Senate , or state
government, whose spending cuts also are forcing museums to
close and libraries to scale back opening hours. With 1.22
million euros ($1.7 million) to be slashed from its 2011-2012
budget, the Schauspielhaus may be forced to shut workshops and
eliminate its renowned youth-theater project.  The city-state’s new mayor, Christoph Ahlhaus, announced
annual savings of 510 million euros in September, a month after
he took over as head of a coalition between his party, the
Christian Democratic Union, and the Greens. The Senate says the
reductions are necessary because the world economic crisis
caused a shortfall of 6 billion euros in tax revenue through
2013 for Germany’s biggest port, whose economy relies on global
trade.  Others argue that Hamburg, whose 1.8 million citizens are
the wealthiest in Germany measured by average income, should not
be scrimping on its museums, libraries and theater. Culture
 Senator Reinhard Stuth , appointed by Ahlhaus in August, is
aiming to push through arts cuts of almost 8 million euros over
the next two years. Through a spokesman, he declined to be
interviewed for this article.  Culture Metropolis  “Hamburg advertises itself as a cultural metropolis, and
yet it is sending a very negative signal to the rest of
Germany,” said Torkild Hinrichsen, the director of the  Altonaer
Museum . The Senate has slated the museum for closure at the end
of the year, with cost savings estimated at 3.45 million euros.  “It will be the first time since World War II that a
museum of this size has been closed in Germany,” he said.  These are not the first arts cuts Hamburg has sustained in
recent years. The Schauspielhaus lost its director, Friedrich
Schirmer, in September, before the latest round was announced.
He gave lack of finance as his reason for quitting.  In an interview with Der Spiegel magazine published Oct.
18, Schirmer said that at least by resigning, he saved the
theater his salary. In acknowledging his departure, Stuth
responded that the theater was “adequately financed” even if
existing funding agreements no longer could be honored.  Shark Badges  While the Schauspielhaus is hanging protest banners on its
facade, printing shark badges, organizing demonstrations and
targeting Stuth in a postcard campaign, Hinrichsen is collecting
signatures for a petition and exploring legal options in his
fight to save the Altonaer Museum.  The museum, which attracted about 53,000 visitors last year
-- many of them schoolchildren -- focuses on the cultural
history of Altona, a western district of Hamburg that belonged
to Denmark until 1864. Exhibits include models of historic ships
and barns, recreated farmhouse rooms from different eras and a
traditional pharmacy.  “The Senate wants to rip out the heart of Altona, the
collective common history,” Hinrichsen, 62, said in a meeting
at the museum. “Altona was the hub of northern Europe -- a link
between Scandinavia and the south.”  Hinrichsen, who has worked at the museum since 1986, argues
that the Senate’s arithmetic is flawed. Only a fraction of the
planned savings is possible through closure as employees are
mostly on contracts that don’t allow them to be fired, he said.
There is nowhere for the museum’s contents to be stored, meaning
a new depot would have to be rented, Hinrichsen said.  Dissatisfied Citizens  The Altonaer Museum is festooned with defiant banners
protesting the cuts. Hinrichsen, who has an unruly gray beard,
is relishing the fight.  “It is important to persevere,” he said. “We are not
alone. It is not in the Hanseatic culture to protest against
elected governments. But the circle of dissatisfied citizens is
growing. I have surprised myself by daring to do the things I
didn’t dare to do in 1968.”  The citizens of Hamburg have found a scapegoat for their
frustration: The vast  Elbphilharmonie  concert hall under
construction on the banks of the Elbe, overlooking the sea of
cranes in the busy port below.  Landmark Hall  Intended as a new landmark and designed by Herzog & de
Meuron, its cost to the state has escalated to 323 million euros
from an initial estimate of about 70 million euros. At an Oct. 1
demonstration, 16,000 people formed a chain from the Senate’s
finance authority to the building site. Protesters burned fake
million-euro notes to symbolize the waste.  “I am sure the Elbphilharmonie is going to be impressive,
but it is unacceptable that the costs have spiraled out of
control,” said Sabrina van der Ley, who is co-director of the
 Galerie der Gegenwart  contemporary-art museum in Hamburg.  Though her museum isn’t hit by the latest round of cuts,
previous savings attempts have left it under-financed by
“several hundred thousand euros,” Van der Ley said over coffee
in the museum cafe during a break from preparing the opening of
an exhibition devoted to the Canadian artist Rodney Graham. The
only way to make up the shortfall this year was to shutter the
entrance hall and other areas for weeks at a time, she said.  “It seems that the arts and culture education have no
value for this Senate; they are just an extra cost,” Van der
Ley said. “Culture must be spared from the spending cuts from
now on. We are willing to fight, and there’s a lot of solidarity
between the different institutions.”  ( Catherine Hickley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Hamburg at  chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 