-- Bernanke Says Regulators `Intensively' Reviewing Foreclosures
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-10-25T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/bernanke-says-regulators-are-intensively-reviewing-foreclosure-practices.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank and other regulators are
“intensively” examining financial firms’ home-foreclosure
practices and expect preliminary findings next month.  “We have been concerned about reported irregularities in
foreclosure practices at a number of large financial
institutions,” Bernanke said today at a housing conference in
Arlington, Virginia. “We are looking intensively at the firms’
policies, procedures, and internal controls related to
foreclosures and seeking to determine whether systematic
weaknesses are leading to improper foreclosures.”  Ally Financial’s GMAC Mortgage unit,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
and Bank of America Corp. are among loan servicers that
temporarily halted foreclosures while the companies review
paperwork. Court documents have showed that employees might have
submitted affidavits without confirming their accuracy, a
practice that state officials say could amount to fraud.  “We take violations of proper procedures seriously,”
Bernanke said in the prepared text of welcoming remarks to the
conference on mortgages and housing finance, hosted by the Fed
and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Bernanke didn’t comment on the outlook for the economy or
monetary policy, eight days before the Fed meets to decide on
what economists and investors expect will be a plan to boost
growth by restarting large-scale securities purchases. After
discussing foreclosures, he devoted much of his remarks to the
Fed’s housing-market efforts, such as studies, conferences and
events serving troubled borrowers.  Mortgage Distress  “More than 20 percent of borrowers owe more than their
home is worth, and an additional 33 percent have equity cushions
of 10 percent or less, putting them at risk should house prices
decline much further,” Bernanke said. “With housing markets
still weak, high levels of  mortgage  distress may well persist
for some time to come.”  Housing markets were “weak” in September and early
October, with “sluggish or declining” sales in many regions,
the Fed said in its Beige Book business survey last week. There
were “scattered reports of some improvement.”  “Respondents’ outlooks suggested sales and construction
would remain subdued through year-end,” restrained in part by
lending standards and “general economic uncertainty,” the Fed
said.  Data released this month showed that builders in the U.S.
began work on more homes in September than economists expected,
with housing starts at a 610,000 annual rate. Still, that’s less
than one-third of the record 2.3 million pace in January 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  