-- Bond Insurers Syncora, FGIC Dealt Setbacks From Losses on Home Mortgages
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   R i c h a r d
-- 2010-10-25T14:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/bond-insurers-syncora-fgic-dealt-setbacks-from-losses-on-home-mortgages.html
Syncora Holdings Ltd.  said a measure
of capital will drop as much as 28 percent at its insurance unit
primarily because of soured home loans, a setback for the bond
insurer trying to avoid seizure by regulators.  Syncora Guarantee Inc., which was ordered by New York state
regulators to cease claims payments in 2009 and restore a
surplus to policyholders, said it will record a decline of $25
million to $40 million in the excess capital, according to a
statement today. The company said in July it completed a plan
sufficient to meet the minimum statutory surplus requirements
and received regulatory approval to pay claims.  Bond insurers run by Syncora and FGIC Corp. are struggling
with losses on residential-mortgage backed securities more than
two years after losing their top credit grades amid the worst
housing crisis since the Great Depression.  An entity that sought to exchange mortgage securities
backed by FGIC today said the effort failed. Sharps SP I LLC
said it failed to get enough participants and that the exchange
offer is being terminated, according to a statement today.  Syncora reported a policyholders surplus of $143.8 million
at the end of June. The company also said today in the statement
it expects an increase in its reserves and loss adjustment
expenses because of a lower discount rate, which is used to
calculate the amounts.  New York State Insurance Department spokesman  Andy Mais 
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Richard  in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net  