-- Bovespa Stocks Advance on Federal Reserve Loosening Prospects; Real Gains
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-10-25T12:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/bovespa-stock-index-futures-advance-on-federal-reserve-loosening-prospects.html
Brazil’s Bovespa stock-index futures
advanced, indicating the gauge may pare its first weekly decline
since August, as investors speculated the Federal Reserve may
announce further measures to bolster the economic recovery.  Electric utilities  Light SA  and Eletropaulo Metropolitana
SA may be active after Banco Santander SA recommended buying the
shares. Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, the world’s biggest
sugar-cane processor, may move after saying its net sales rose
32 percent in the second fiscal quarter.  Usinas Siderurgicas de
Minas Gerais SA  may move after Brazil’s tax agency said it will
curb imports of steel that may have been priced below the cost
of raw materials used to make the alloy.  Bovespa futures gained 0.9 percent to 70,940 at 8:19 a.m.
New York time. The gauge fell on Oct. 22, extending last week’s
drop to 3.2 percent, on concern higher interest rates in China
and uncertainty in global currency markets may curb economic
growth, offsetting a rally for steelmakers. The real rose 0.2
percent to 1.7017 per dollar.  The Group of 20 finance chiefs pledged to avoid
“competitive devaluation” at the end of a meeting in South
Korea on Oct. 23. The G-20 meeting “has reaffirmed the status
quo and going forward we are likely to see the Federal Reserve,
the Bank of England and the Bank of Japan go on with
quantitative easing,” said  Kelvin Tay , the chief investment
strategist for UBS AG Wealth Management in Singapore. Equities’
strength  “has been largely driven by the fact that the U.S.
dollar has actually weakened quite substantially against all
major currencies since  Ben Bernanke ’s Jackson Hole speech” at
the end of August.  Minimum Prices  Steelmakers surged on Oct. 22 after Valor Economico
reported that the tax authority would set minimum prices for 16
types of flat and long steel based on their costs of production.
The agency said later that day that it won’t set minimum prices
for the imports, denying the news report.  Morgan Stanley cut Latin America’s rating to
“underweight” in the brokerage’s global emerging markets model
portfolio and raised Asia to “overweight.”  Latin America “tends to underperform during corrective
phases,”  Jonathan Garner , Morgan Stanley’s Hong Kong-based
chief Asian and emerging-market strategist, said in a report.
“The main factors driving these changes are relative weaknesses
in earnings growth and revision factors for Brazil and Mexico.”  Morgan Stanley lowered its recommended weighting for Brazil
to “equal-weight” from “overweight” and Mexico to
“underweight” from “equal-weight,” while Chile was upgraded
to “equal-weight.” Asia’s rating was increased as the
brokerage raised China’s allocation, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  