-- BP Sells Stakes in Four Gulf Fields for $650 Million
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2010-10-25T15:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/bp-sells-stakes-in-four-gulf-of-mexico-fields-for-650-million.html
BP Plc , the company responsible for
the worst oil spill in U.S. history, sold interests in four
deepwater Gulf of Mexico oil and gas fields for $650 million.  The sale to Marubeni Oil & Gas of the mature Magnolia,
Merganser, Nansen and Zia fields follows BP’s purchase of the
stakes in March as part of a transaction with Devon Energy Corp.
Marubeni will pay cash and the deal is expected to be completed
in early 2011, BP said in a statement in London today.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  said today that BP
won’t leave the U.S. as the company sells as much as $30 billion
in assets worldwide. Today’s sale brings the total to around $12
billion and is the second in the Gulf of Mexico after BP sold
the operatorship of the Tubular Bells fields.  “This is a good thing for them to optimize their
portfolio,” said  Gudmund Halle Isfeldt , an analyst at DnB NOR
ASA in Oslo. “It’s not a retreat. If they want to be an
offshore player, they need to be in deepwater Gulf of Mexico.”  BP was little changed at 428.7 pence as of the 4:30 p.m.
close in London. Shares are still down 35 percent since the
April 20 accident that led to the spill.  Production from the fields BP is selling is about 15,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day, BP said. Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. owns a 50 percent stake and operates both the Merganser
and Nansen fields. ConocoPhillips operates the Magnolia field,
and BP was the operator of Zia.  “When BP acquired Devon’s Gulf of Mexico assets it was
clear that these four fields did not fit well with the rest of
our business in the region,” said  Andy Hopwood , BP executive
vice president for strategy and integration. “We therefore
decided they would be of more value to another company than to
BP.”  Linklaters LLP were legal advisers to BP in the
transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  