-- Brazil Current Account Deficit Widens to Record as Demand Bolsters Imports
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-10-25T14:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/brazil-s-12-month-current-account-gap-widens-to-record-on-domestic-demand.html
Brazil’s 12-month current account
gap widened to a record high in September as domestic demand and
the real’s rally boost spending on imports.  The deficit in the  current account , the broadest measure of
trade and services, widened to $3.85 billion in September,
pushing the annual gap to $47.3 billion, the central bank said
today. Economists expected a monthly deficit of $3.89 billion,
according to the median estimate from 18 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Latin America’s biggest economy is set to expand this year
at the fastest pace in more than two decades, outpacing the
speed of recovery in rich nations and most emerging markets,
according to an October  report  by the International Monetary
Fund. The combination of faster domestic growth and the real’s
rally against the dollar is widening Brazil’s current account
gap, which may rise to a record $60 billion next year, according
to central bank estimates.  “The speed of domestic growth explains the deficit,”
 Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Banco WestLB do Brasil,
said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “Foreign direct and
portfolio investments added to the renewal of foreign debt will
finance the gap.”  Oil, Games  Foreign direct investment  rose to a 21-month-high of $5.39
billion in September from $2.43 billion in August, the central
bank said today.  The figure beat estimates by all 16 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Their median forecast was for $2.7 billion of FDI.  The rise in foreign direct investment is tied to plans for
the 2014 World Cup, 2016 Olympic Games, the oil industry and
infrastructure,  Altamir Lopes , head of the central bank’s
economic department, told reporters in Brasilia today.  The real has gained 36 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of last year, the third-best performer after the
Australian dollar and the South African rand among the 16 most-
traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The real gained 0.2
percent to 1.7019 per U.S. dollar at 10:35 a.m. New York time.  President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s administration
tripled a tax this month foreigners must pay to buy fixed-income
securities in the domestic market in a bid to temper the real’s
rally.  The Finance Ministry also slapped a 6 percent tax on
foreigners entering the derivatives market.  The  trade surplus  in the 12 months through September
narrowed to a seven-year low of $16.9 billion as import growth
outpaced that of exports, Trade Ministry figures show.  Brazil’s economy will expand 7.5 percent this year,
compared with 2.7 percent in advanced economies and 7.1 percent
in emerging and developing nations, according to the IMF.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Iuri  Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net 
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  