-- British Land, Omers to Build London's `Cheesegrater' Skyscraper
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-10-25T10:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/british-land-omers-to-develop-cheesegrater-skyscraper-in-city-of-london.html
British Land Co.,  the U.K.’s second-
largest real estate investment trust, revived a plan to build
the “Cheesegrater” tower in London’s main financial district a
week after another skyscraper project was restarted.  British Land will develop the 47-story building in a joint
venture with Oxford Properties Group Inc., a unit of Toronto-
based  Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System , according
to a statement today. The office property will cost about 340
million pounds ($536 million) to build.  Land Securities Group Plc, the country’s largest REIT,
announced on Oct. 19 that the “Walkie-Talkie” tower
development will proceed. Work on most City of London office
projects was halted two years ago because of falling property
values and rents. Prices have recovered since August 2009 as the
 weak pound  fueled demand from overseas investors and a possible
shortage of large new office space boosted rents.  “Developers are finding it incredibly difficult to raise
speculative development funding from the banks, so everyone’s
new best friend is someone with equity to invest,” said  Mat Oakley , head of commercial property research at Savills Plc.  Developers have struggled to get loans from banks without
first securing a commitment from a tenant to occupy a building,
he said. No tenants have been lined up for either the
Cheesegrater or the Walkie Talkie.  British Land  advanced 3.5 pence to 510 pence in London
trading as of 9:45 a.m., lifting the market value of the company
to 4.49 billion pounds.  Joint Ventures  Land Securities said the 500 million-pound Walkie Talkie
tower project will proceed after the company formed a venture
with Canary Wharf Group Plc, which is backed by Qatar Holding
LLC and China Investment Corp. In June, Land Securities sold its
Park Place development on London’s Oxford Street to Qatar’s
Barwa Real Estate Co.  “Global funds are becoming less risk averse to property,”
Oakley said. “They are ferreting around for capital and rental
growth plays and the London market is where they are going to
get it in Europe.”  Oakley predicts prime office rents in the City of London
will rise by 8 to 9 percent annually from 2011 through 2014 to
about 75 pounds a square foot.  Earlier this month, Oxford Properties acquired the 50
percent stake in Nomura Holdings Inc.’s London headquarters
building that it didn’t already own for about 200 million
pounds.  British Land had halted construction of the 736-foot (224-
meter) tower officially named the Leadenhall Building after
completing the demolition and preliminary basement work.
Construction is scheduled to start in January and the structural
and exterior work on the 610,000 square-foot building, designed
by architect  Richard Rogers’s  firm, is due to be completed in
the second quarter of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 