-- Buffett Says U.S. Bancorp’s Prospects Negate Need for Writedown
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-10-25T15:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/buffett-says-u-s-bancorp-s-prospects-negate-need-for-writedown.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.  opted against writing down its holdings in U.S. Bancorp and
 Kraft Foods Inc.  because of the prospects their shares will
recover, the billionaire’s company told regulators.  “The underlying businesses of Kraft Foods and U.S. Bancorp
were each financially sound and continued to possess significant
future earnings potential,” Berkshire said in a May 7 letter to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that was released
today. “It is reasonably possible that the market prices of
Kraft Foods and  U.S. Bancorp  will recover to our cost within the
next one to two years.”  Berkshire was asked by the SEC in April why it didn’t write
down about $1.9 billion in market declines in the company’s
 equity portfolio . Unrealized losses as of Dec. 31 included $789
million on Kraft, the maker of Oreo cookies and Ritz crackers,
and $646 million on U.S. Bancorp, Berkshire told the SEC.  The stake in Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft was down 18
percent from Berkshire’s cost, and the holding of Minneapolis-
based U.S. Bancorp had dropped by 27 percent as of the end of
2009. Kraft advanced 17 percent this year through Oct. 22 and
U.S. Bancorp climbed about 4.8 percent. Berkshire is the largest
investor in Kraft stock and the No. 3 holder of  U.S. Bancorp ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The SEC said Sept. 8 that it reviewed Berkshire’s response
on questions related to filings including the 2009 annual report
and had no further comments. Such correspondence is typically
made public about 45 days after the completion of a review.  Steve Dale , a spokesman for U.S. Bancorp, declined to
comment as did Kraft’s  Michael Mitchell  and  John Nester  of the
SEC. An assistant to Buffett didn’t immediately return a message
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  