-- Buffett Names Castle Point's Combs to Investment Post
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-10-25T20:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/buffett-s-berkshire-hathaway-says-todd-combs-to-join-as-investment-manager.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has hired
 Todd Combs  of Castle Point Capital to manage a “significant
portion” of the investment  portfolio  built by  Warren Buffett .  Castle Point is a Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund
focused on financial services companies, according to the
 website  of Stone Point Capital LLC, which provided funding to
Combs in 2005. Combs, 39, issued a letter to partners of Castle
Point announcing his decision, Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
said today in a statement.  Berkshire accumulated equity  holdings  of more than $50
billion as of June 30, including stakes in Wells Fargo & Co. and
Coca-Cola Co., partly by investing premiums from insurance
operations. The fixed-income portfolio was valued at more than
$30 billion and includes corporate debt and government
securities.  For three years, Vice Chairman  Charles Munger 
and I “have been looking for someone of Todd’s caliber to
handle a significant portion of Berkshire’s investment
portfolio,” Buffett said in the statement. “We are delighted
that Todd will be joining us.”  Buffett, 80, has said his responsibilities will be split,
upon his death or retirement, among at least three people. A
chief executive officer will oversee the more than 70 operating
units assembled by Buffett, and one or more investment heads
will be appointed to allocate capital and manage Berkshire’s
portfolio. Buffett has said his son Howard will probably assume
the position of non-executive chairman to preserve the firm’s
culture.  Attempts to reach Combs for comment weren’t immediately
successful.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Eichenbaum  at 
 Peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  