-- Build America Bond Price Increases Under Examination by U.S. Auditors
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-10-25T23:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/build-america-bond-price-increases-examined-by-u-s-auditors.html
The U.S. Internal Revenue Service is
examining the trading in Build America Bonds sold by states as
it audits more than a dozen bond issues to see if they ran afoul
of tax regulations.  The  IRS said  it requested information from borrowers to see
if they comply with rules for the taxable-bond program, under
which the Treasury Department pays 35 percent of the interest.
That includes rules that prevent borrowers from selling the
issues at above-market interest rates, which would drive up the
cost of the federal subsidies.  The Build America Bond program, created last year to foster
spending on public-works projects, has since swelled into $149
billion market. The IRS is auditing 15 to 20 of the bond issues
and is looking at trading prices of the securities soon after
they are sold to see if they were underpriced, said  Clifford Gannett , the director of the IRS’s tax-exempt bond division.  “We’re looking at trading,” Gannett said in an interview.
“It becomes a very significant rule in terms of whether we are
paying the appropriate amount of direct payment to the
issuers.”  The  prices  of some Build America Bonds jumped in early
trading, delivering potentially quick profits to those who had
access to the initial offering.  The IRS’s public statements come after San Antonio and a
Chicago sewer district both notified bond investors last week
that the IRS was auditing their bond issues. Gannett said he
couldn’t comment on any particular audits or why they were
selected.  Pricing Limits  The Build America Bond program subsidy is based on the
coupons, the interest rates that are periodically paid out to
investors. There are limits on how much above face value, or
premium, at which the securities can be sold to investors, a
limit intended to prevent the subsidies from being paid on an
artificially high rate.  In tax-exempt bonds, audits can pose a risk to investors
because the IRS has the power to revoke that exemption, exposing
holders to tax bills. In the case of Build America Bonds, which
are taxable, it’s the subsidy payments to the borrowers that
could be at risk.  The IRS’s statements today shed broader light on the focus
of its queries into the Build America Bond market. In February,
it sent a questionnaire to issuers asking whether they monitor
the trading of their Build America Bonds soon after they are
sold and whether any of the securities were purchased for the
accounts of underwriters, which could reap added profits if they
were sold at below-market prices.  The IRS said in its statement today that it is also
monitoring whether the bond issues comply with requirements that
the funds be used for capital expenditures and limits on
issuance costs, the fees paid to Wall Street underwriters and
other parties to the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  