-- Bundesbank's Weber Says Interest Rates Shouldn't Stay Too Low for Too Long
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-10-25T18:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/bundesbank-s-weber-says-interest-rates-shouldn-t-stay-too-low-for-too-long.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Axel Weber  said while interest rates are “still
appropriate,” they shouldn’t stay “too low for too long.”  The ECB is “in the process of phasing out” its non-
standard policy measures introduced at the height of the
financial crisis, Weber said today in Stuttgart. Returning to a
bidding procedure in the bank’s three-month refinancing
operation “will be a topic” for the first quarter, he added.  The Frankfurt-based central bank has already abandoned six-
and twelve-month refinancing operations while committing to
provide banks with unlimited liquidity for up to three months
until the end of the year. The ECB refrained from buying
government bonds for a second week after Weber called for end of
the program on Oct. 13.  Weber’s call, the strongest from any euro-area official
advocating the removal of stimulus, may hurt his chances of
succeeding ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  next year.  “I don’t measure myself in terms of the career wishes that
others ascribe to me,” Weber said. “I always follow my own
path and that has always served me well. I am a stability-
oriented policy maker and that won’t change. It’s better to do a
good job for eight years than always look to the next one.”  Weber said Europe needs stricter sanction mechanisms for
countries breaching the Stability and Growth Pact and a
strengthening of rules to avoid future crises. While the German
Bundesbank, which he heads, supported proposals made by the
European Commission, they were considered too soft, Weber said.  ‘Future of Europe’  “We’re currently setting the course for the future of
Europe,” Weber said. “We as monetary-policy makers can only
push for stability.”  Weber also called for “verbal disarmament” in the
currency debate, saying volatility in foreign-exchange markets
isn’t helpful.  “Competitiveness will be won in businesses, not through
exchange rates,” Weber said. In Germany, gross domestic product
may reach its pre-crisis level next year, he added.  “It will take at least until next year, if not 2012, for
us to reach pre-crisis levels,” Weber said. Growth will slow to
“about” 0.5 percent in the third and fourth quarters of this
year, “much weaker” than the “phenomenal” expansion of 2.2
percent in the second quarter, he said, adding that Germany is
not in an economic environment that justifies “big” wage
settlements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  