-- Buy U.S. Stocks Poised to Advance From Global Growth, Michael Cuggino Says
-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 2010-10-25T13:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/buy-u-s-stocks-poised-to-gain-from-global-growth-cuggino-says.html
U.S. commodity and industrial stocks
are among those poised to benefit from the growing global
economy, according to Pacific Heights Asset Management LLC’s
 Michael Cuggino .  “We like the U.S. stock market in general,” Cuggino, who
is based in San Francisco, said in an interview. “Corporate
earnings so far have justified stock valuations.” The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has a price-to-earnings  ratio  of 15.1, compared
with an average of 16.2 in Bloomberg data based on reported
earnings going back to 1954.  Cuggino, whose $8.5 billion  Permanent Portfolio  fund has
beaten 98 percent of its peers over the past five years, manages
that fund with the goal of capital preservation in different
market environments. He invests in six categories: Gold, silver,
Swiss franc-denominated assets, U.S. growth stocks, Treasuries
and high-grade corporate bonds, and U.S. and foreign real estate
and natural resources stocks.  The global recovery is continuing, Cuggino said,
particularly because of the “high rate of growth” in countries
such as Brazil, Russia, India and China.  Gross domestic product growth in China was 9.6 percent in
the third quarter, and India’s economy expanded 8.8 percent in
the second quarter. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has risen 75
percent since March 2009.  Stock Picks  Cuggino recommended investing in the stocks of  FedEx Corp. ,
which he said should benefit from worldwide economic growth and
its pricing power; BHP Billiton Ltd., which is in a number of
commodities markets and can benefit from currency weakness; and
State Street Corp., an “efficient operator” in the “knocked-
down” financial industry. He recommended companies that get “a
good percentage” of their revenue from outside the U.S.  He said stocks are also attractive because of high dividend
yields, which are “in excess, in some cases, of the 10-year
Treasury.” The 10-year Treasury yielded 2.53 percent as of 8.19
a.m. in New York, while the projected 12-month  dividend yield  of
the Dow Jones Industrial Average is 2.77 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “You’re getting paid to wait for growth,” Cuggino said.
“The global growth story is out there, it’s intact, and U.S.
companies in many cases are poised to benefit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joanna Ossinger in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 