-- Buy Optus, Woolworths U.S. Debt on Credit Quality Bet, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   L i s a   P h a m   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-10-25T06:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/buy-optus-woolworths-u-s-debt-on-credit-quality-bet-morgan-stanley-says.html
U.S. dollar bonds sold by firms such
as Singapore Telecommunications Ltd.’s Optus unit and Woolworths
Ltd. offer value as the market wrongly expects credit quality
for Australian companies to decline, according to  Morgan Stanley .  Australian non-financial borrowers are unlikely to
“destroy balance sheets” by borrowing more than they need,
analysts led by Hong Kong-based  Viktor Hjort  wrote in a research
note today.  “The end of deleveraging does not mean the beginning of
re-leveraging,” they wrote. “The bottom line is that it will
take time before any turn in the leverage cycle gets threatening
in earnest for creditors.”  Companies including  Westfield Group  and  Fairfax Media Ltd. 
turned to stock investors to help repair balance sheets amid the
global credit freeze, raising A$120 billion ($119 billion) from
equity sales between July 2008 and September 2009, the
Australian Securities & Investments Commission  said  last year.
Even as the nation’s economy strengthens and corporate earnings
recover, the increased cost of capital means firms won’t be
tempted to boost debt levels, the Morgan Stanley analysts wrote.  Dollar-denominated bonds issued by Australian companies are
yielding about 45 basis points more than their U.S. peers,
according to Morgan Stanley. That signals the securities offer
value to investors, as Australia’s economy is outperforming the
U.S., the analysts wrote.  Sydney-based Optus’s $500 million of 4.625 percent notes
due in October 2019 are “cheap” compared with similar-maturity
debt sold by AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc.,
according to Morgan Stanley. The notes are yielding 3.746
percent, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices on
Bloomberg at 4:08 p.m. in Sydney.  AT&T, Woolworths  AT&T’s 5.8 percent notes due the same year, which are rated
one step lower at A by Standard & Poor’s, yield 3.13 percent,
according to MPS Fixed Income prices.  Woolworths’ 4 percent notes due in September 2020, rated A-
by S&P, yield 3.64 percent, according to RBS prices. The 6.15
percent, BBB rated notes maturing in January 2020 sold by Kroger
Co., the largest U.S. grocery-store chain, yield 3.717 percent,
according to Maxim Group prices.  While the notes of Australia’s biggest retailer appear
“rich” at first glance, Woolworth’s higher credit rating and
lower leverage “more than compensate” for the spread to
Kroger’s bonds, according to Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  