-- Cable Says Cameron Listened to Business on U.K. Immigration Cap
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-10-25T23:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/cable-says-cameron-has-listened-to-businesses-over-u-k-immigration-cap.html
Business Secretary  Vince Cable  said
Britain’s government is listening to the complaints of business
about its proposed immigration cap, which companies say is
preventing them from bringing in staff they need.  “The message has been heard loud and clear,” Cable said
in an interview at the Confederation of British Industry’s
annual conference in London. Cable said Prime Minister  David Cameron  had demonstrated that, when he told the conference
yesterday that “as we control our borders and bring immigration
to a manageable level, we will not impede you from attracting
the best talent from around the world.”  Cable said last month that the temporary cap, in place
until the government implements a permanent measure, was “very
damaging” to the British economy. CBI Director-General  Richard Lambert  backed him, saying it was “causing some really big
companies some significant pain.”  “Executives have to come and go. That has to be done in
the framework of an overall cap on immigration,” Cable said. He
refused to characterize it as a victory for his department.
“It’s not winning or losing, it’s reconciling two different
things.”  Speaking to reporters in London, Cameron’s spokesman  Steve Field  denied the prime minister’s statement represented a
“rethink” on opposition policy.  ‘Tens of Thousands’  “We’ve said that the objective is to bring net migration
down to the levels seen in the past -- so tens of thousands,”
Field said yesterday. “But we have not said anything more
detailed about precisely how this is going to operate and we
will do in due course.”  Cable also said in his interview that the government is
“committed to structural reform of the banking system,” with
its Banking Commission examining the best method of splitting
banks.  “That’s what the commission is looking at -- how to do
it,” he said.  Cable was critical of his Conservative Party coalition
partners’ record on economic forecasting during his speech to
the CBI earlier. The Liberal Democrat, who was his party’s
Treasury spokesman until the May 6 election, began his address
by pointing out that “just a few years ago, most people in
politics, not only  Gordon Brown , thought the growth problem had
been solved.”  “I don’t mean to be mischievous when I point out that even
my Conservative coalition colleagues were busy developing
policies about ‘sharing the proceeds of growth,’” Cable
continued. “Those of us who were worrying publicly about the
unsustainable build-up of household debt, the housing bubble and
the lending practices of banks were regarded as eccentrics or
party poopers.”  Cameron had a dig at the Liberal Democrats when asked about
their reversal of position in accepting the need for an increase
in university tuition fees this month. “They didn’t expect to
be in government,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 