-- Cameron Pledges U.K. Bank Shake-Up to Boost Lending
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-10-25T12:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/cameron-pledges-to-improve-access-to-finance-for-small-firms.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said he will use the sale of government stakes in  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  to increase
competition and expand lending to small businesses.  “We now own some rather large banks,” Cameron told the
Confederation of British Industry’s annual conference in London
today. “What’s the balance between maximizing return to the
Treasury and making sure we have a good, competitive banking
sector? I want to make sure at the end of this we have a banking
sector that’s really focused on small and medium-sized
enterprise lending.”  Business Secretary  Vince Cable , due to speak later at the
same event, will say the dominance of Britain’s retail banking
sector by “just three or four” big players is stopping
businesses getting access to finance and pledge “a much broader
choice” in five years, according to a text of his speech
circulated in advance.  The statements underscore the coalition government’s plans
to alter the shape of British banking, in which six companies,
 Barclays Plc ,  HSBC Holdings Plc , RBS, Lloyds,  Standard Chartered
Plc  and Banco Santander SA, dominate the market.  Credit Crunch  The banks are under pressure to lend more and limit staff
compensation after accepting more than 1 trillion pounds ($1.5
trillion) in bailouts and guarantees during the credit crunch.  On Oct. 13 the big six announced a 1.5 billion-pound fund
to boost lending to small businesses. The finance industry may
pay 7 billion pounds in bonuses to employees this year,
according to the Centre for Economics & Business Research Ltd.  Cable warned last month that the payment of large sums to
bank staff as many others in the country experience pay freezes
and tax rises risks becoming a “train crash.”  Cable will say today that far from rejecting his remarks
about banks, many businessmen “keep telling me that I am not
bashing them enough.” He will say that the growth of
securitization in the past decade meant many lenders lost touch
with borrowers.  “We have reached a point where thousands of businesses
have a choice of just three or four partners, which is clearly
unhealthy and open to abuse,” Cable will say. “So in five
years time we would like a much broader choice for businesses.
More banks who understand SME finance. More non-bank sources of
finance. More use of equity. More specialist knowledge of
sectors.”  Lending Share  The British Bankers’ Association estimates the big six were
responsible for 61 percent of business lending at the end of
2009, when loans totaled 483 billion pounds, according to the
Bank of England.  Bob Diamond , whose appointment as chief executive of
Barclays last month was criticized by Cable, defended the
industry today, insisting that large “integrated,
international” banks were better able to help customers who
needed complex products such as currency hedges.  “There’s no empirical evidence that big is bad -- quite
the opposite,” Diamond told the CBI.  “Support for clients has been and always will be our
greatest priority at Barclays,” Diamond said. He said that
while the bank is “specifically targeting” growth in business
lending, “the objective can never be to fulfill 100 percent of
demand for lending -- that will simply sow the seeds of the next
slump.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net .;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 