-- Canada Will Be `Relentless' in Pressuring China on Yuan After G-20 Meeting
-- B y   P a u l   B a d e r t s c h e r
-- 2010-10-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/canada-will-be-relentless-pushing-china-on-yuan-after-g-20.html
Canadian policy makers said they
will be “relentless” in keeping pressure on China and other
economies with fixed exchange rates to allow their currencies to
appreciate, following meetings with colleagues from the Group of
20 nations last weekend.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  and central bank Governor
 Mark Carney  said that while the G-20 made progress on promoting
flexible currencies and other issues, they remain a long way
from the ultimate goal.  “We’re not satisfied with the degree of exchange rate
flexibility, the moves on exchange rate flexibility, in key
emerging markets,” Carney said in an interview following the
meeting in Gyeongju, South Korea.  Policy makers, including those from China, issued a
statement that pledged movement “towards more market determined
exchange rate systems,” as they tried to allay concern that
nations from the U.S. to China are relying on cheap currencies
to spur growth, risking a protectionist backlash. The Bank of
Canada said last week that “heightened tensions in currency
markets and related risks associated with global imbalances”
could slow a rebound in the world economy.  “Everyone realizes that we have to move” to greater
exchange-rate flexibility, Flaherty, 60, said in a separate
interview. “That’s why there was agreement to put that language
in the communiqué, but there’s still a tendency by some to fall
back to isolationist-type measures.”  Curbing Gains  Even as it runs a trade surplus and builds currency
reserves, China has curbed the yuan’s rise to about 2 percent
since pledging in June to introduce more flexibility, arguing
anything other than a gradual appreciation would cause social
and economic disruption. China let the yuan gain the most versus
the U.S. dollar since 2005 in September and rise by more than 20
percent in the last five years.  According to Flaherty, those gains aren’t enough. “We
certainly see the relative inflexibility of certain Asian
currencies,” he said. China’s policy of boosting exports by
keeping its currency undervalued “remains a serious issue, and
I hope we’ll see movement there as a result of the discussions
this week.”  The comments echo those of Canadian Trade Minister  Peter Van Loan , who said last month that China’s currency policy risks
fueling a public backlash against its investments in the North
American country. “They want to be seen as a market economy,
they want to have the benefits of that,” Van Loan said about
China. “Well, one of the fundamentals of a market economy is
that you let your currency float freely.”  ‘Vague and Broad’  Countries should continue to press the issue because the G-
20’s pledges are “so vague and broad that they can be
interpreted into different meanings by each country,” said Oh
Suk Tae, an economist at SC First Bank Korea Ltd. in Seoul. “We
need to see actions in line with the verbal vows.”  The continued pressure on China carries some risk, as it
comes amid a push by Canada’s government, led by Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper , to strengthen ties with the Asian nation. In
December, China gave Canada “approved destination” status,
making it easier for Chinese tourists to visit Canada.  Canada’s exports to China rose 6.6 percent to C$11.2
billion ($10.9 billion) last year, led by canola and iron ore,
according to Statistics Canada. China replaced Japan as Canada’s
third-largest export destination in 2009.  China Petrochemical Corp., the Beijing-based company known
as Sinopec Group, earlier this year acquired a 9 percent stake
in Syncrude Canada Ltd. That followed last year’s acquisition by
PetroChina Co., China’s largest oil company, of a 60 percent
stake in a project run by Athabasca Oil Sands Corp.  Can’t Force It  Still, Carney said Canada will do all it can to maintain
pressure on China and other G-20 countries to implement the
policies that nations agreed will help the global recovery,
including the adoption of market-determined exchange rates.  “We all agree that we want to move to strong, sustainable,
balanced growth,” Carney, 45, said, adding that implementing
the framework will be a long process. “You can’t just have one
meeting, and you force somebody to do something.”  “Implementation is the whole game here,” Carney said. The
best strategy is “being relentless and making sure it continues
to move forward.”  Flaherty also said he’s confident that an increase in
business investment will allow his government to end its
stimulus measures in March as planned.  U.S. Weakness  The Bank of Canada cut its growth forecasts on Oct. 20, and
Flaherty has faced increasing political pressure to extend some
fiscal stimulus measures past their March 31 deadline.  “We see increasingly the private sector moving in to
provide the demand that the public sector has been providing
with people’s tax dollars,” Flaherty said.  Shipments abroad are “clearly a weakness in our economy,
our exports to the United States in particular,” Flaherty said.  A move by the U.S. Federal Reserve to add more stimulus
through quantitative easing would boost Canada’s exports, Carney
said.  The Bank of Canada’s Monetary Policy Report, published Oct.
20, included an assumption the Fed would implement more stimulus
than the Canadian central bank had forecast earlier in the year.  “The number one reason why the forecast is down between
the two MPRs is because of renewed weakness in the United
States,” Carney said. “You see most of that through the net
export channel.”  Canada last week joined central banks in Brazil, Malaysia
and Australia in keeping rates unchanged to gauge the global
recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Badertscher  in Cheongju, South Korea at   pbadertscher@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 