-- Canadian Dollar Climbs as Stocks, Commodities Rally After G-20 Meetings
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-25T21:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/canada-dollar-appreciates-as-stocks-commodities-rally-after-g-20-meetings.html
Canada’s dollar rose with stocks and
raw materials after a pledge by Group of 20 finance ministers to
avoid “competitive devaluation” failed to dispel speculation
the Federal Reserve will announce further stimulus measures.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, touched the
strongest level in a week against the U.S. dollar after
government reports last week showed measures of inflation and
retail sales rose more than economists predicted. The greenback
was down against all of the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The Australian dollar reached a six-year high against
its Canadian counterpart.  “The Canadian dollar is getting some support for base
metals and equities, but the overall theme is more that of
broad-based U.S. dollar weakness initially,”  Matthew Strauss  ,
senior currency strategist in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada’s
RBC Capital unit, said by phone from Toronto.  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.6 percent to C$1.0200
per U.S. dollar at 5:04 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0259
on Oct. 22. It touched C$1.0154, the strongest since Oct. 18.
One Canadian dollar buys 98.07 U.S. cents.  Equities, Commodities  The  MSCI World Index  of equities climbed as much as 1.2
percent. Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, advanced
as much as 2 percent to $83.28 a barrel. Gold, copper, zinc and
lead also strengthened.  G-20 officials, ending a meeting in South Korea on Oct. 23,
agreed to refrain from “competitive devaluation” and allow
markets to set foreign-exchange values, seeking to calm fears
over a potential trade war.  “Following the G-20, investors feel more confident getting
back into risky trades,”  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist
at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, wrote via e-mail.
“The Canadian dollar is gaining from a host of post-domestic
data and the rally in risk assets.”  Canadian government bonds advanced, pushing the yield on
the 10-year bond down 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 2.74 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent security due June
2020 rose 6 cents to C$106.42.  Canada’s currency reached parity on Oct. 14 for the first
time since April, as the greenback slumped against its most-
traded counterparts on speculation the Fed will pursue a course
of further bond purchases to stimulate the economy via so-called
quantitative easing, which is seen by traders as potentially
debasing to the currency.  ‘Test of Parity’  “We continue to believe that it is the broader move in the
U.S. dollar that’s important” in determining what happens to
the loonie,  Camilla Sutton , director of currency strategy in
Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, wrote in a
note to clients today. “This should push the Canadian dollar
back to another test of parity, but leave it under-performing
the non-U.S. dollar crosses.”  Canada’s dollar depreciated to C$1.0102 per Australian
dollar, as a bigger- than-forecast gain in producer prices
encouraged speculation that the Reserve Bank of Australia will
raise its 4.5 percent target lending rate next month. One
Canadian dollar buys 98.99 Australian cents.  The Bank of Canada kept rates unchanged at 1 percent at its
meeting on Oct. 19.  Canadian retail sales unexpectedly rose 0.5 percent in
August to C$36.1 billion ($35.2 billion), the fastest pace in
six months, Statistics Canada said on Oct. 22. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg anticipated a 0.1 percent decline,
according to the median of 15 estimates.  Consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in September, the
statistics agency said the same day. Economists predicted
monthly prices would rise 0.1 percent, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Core inflation trailed
forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  