-- Canada Stocks Rise as Metals Advance on Currencies; RIM Surges
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-10-25T20:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/canadian-stocks-rise-as-gold-gains-most-in-eight-days-u-s-dollar-falls.html
Canadian stocks  rose for a second
day, led by oil and metal producers, as the U.S. dollar
retreated after the Group of 20 pledged to avoid “competitive
devaluation” and Research In Motion Ltd. jumped.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd., Canada’s second-largest
publicly traded copper producer, advanced 3.4 percent as
commodities rallied on confidence that countries will refrain
from buying U.S. dollars to weaken their currencies. RIM, the
BlackBerry maker, surged 5.2 percent after the company’s co-
chief executive officer demonstrated a tablet computer. Eldorado
Gold Corp., Canada’s fifth-biggest gold producer by market
value, increased 1.7 percent as the metal climbed the most in
eight days.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  rose 62.4 points,
or 0.5 percent, to 12,663.58.  “The market doesn’t believe there will be a currency war,
but they still believe commodities will be stronger and the U.S.
dollar needs to weaken,” said  Tony Demarin , chief investment
officer at BCV Asset Management in Winnipeg, Manitoba, which
manages about C$230 million ($226 million).  The S&P/TSX slipped 0.1 percent last week for its first
weekly loss since Sept. 10. The index has surged  8.7 percent 
over the last two months as the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Commodity Price Index has jumped 15 percent on a weaker U.S.
dollar. The currency of the world’s biggest economy slumped to a
2010 low this month on concern the central bank will increase
stimulus.  Goldman Sachs Note  The Commodity Price Index gained 1 percent today as the
U.S. dollar dropped 0.4 percent against a basket of world
currencies. In a note to clients, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
the U.S. Federal Reserve may buy $2 trillion of assets to
stimulate the economy, starting with a program of about $500
billion over six months to be announced next week.  Copper increased the most in two weeks after JPMorgan Chase
& Co. said it will introduce an exchange-traded fund for the
metal. Teck Resources Ltd., Canada’s largest base-metals and
coal producer, climbed 1.7 percent to C$46.26. First Quantum
rallied 3.4 percent to a six-month high of C$86.31.  Gold futures gained 1 percent to $1,338.90 an ounce, while
silver rallied 1.8 percent.  Eldorado Gold advanced 1.7 percent to C$17.56. Silver
reseller Silver Wheaton Corp. increased 3.5 percent to $27.90.
Centerra Gold Inc., which mines in  Kyrgyzstan and Mongolia ,
soared 5.1 percent to C$18.52.  Uranium  Uranium for immediate delivery rose 8.2 percent last week,
the most since November 2008, TradeTech LLC said in a report
distributed after markets closed on Oct. 22. Cameco Corp., the
world’s second-largest uranium producer, climbed 3.9 percent to
a nine-month high of C$31.58. Uranium One Inc., the producer in
which Russia’s ARMZ is buying a controlling stake, gained 5.2
percent to C$4.03.  RIM, Canada’s largest technology company, jumped 5.2
percent to C$52.89 after the website Engadget said co-CEO  Mike Lazaridis  demonstrated the PlayBook tablet at an Adobe Systems
Inc. conference.   An  index  of S&P/TSX telecommunications companies advanced
to a two-year high after the Canadian Radio-television and
Telecommunications Commission approved Shaw Communications
Inc.’s purchase of the television assets of Canwest Global
Communications Inc.  In a note to clients,  Peter Rhamey , an analyst at Bank of
Montreal, said the CRTC’s decision means regulators are also
likely to approve BCE Inc.’s purchase of broadcaster CTV, while
Telus Corp. should benefit from Shaw’s commitment to make
content available to Internet and wireless service provider
competitors.  BCE Rises  BCE, Canada’s largest phone company, increased 1.8 percent
to C$34.90. Telus, the country’s third-biggest wireless carrier,
climbed 1.7 percent to a two-year high of C$47.12. Rogers
Communications Inc., the largest wireless carrier in Canada,
rose 0.8 percent to C$41.31.  TMX Group Inc., the owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange,
gained 3.8 percent, the most in a year, to C$33.30 after
Singapore Exchange Ltd. agreed to buy Australia’s ASX Ltd. for
A$8.4 billion ($8.3 billion). In a note to clients,  Stephen Boland , an analyst at GMP Capital Inc., said speculation of a
takeover of TMX will increase if Australia approves the purchase
of ASX.  Under Ontario and Quebec securities regulations, no entity
can own more than 10 percent of TMX voting shares without prior
approval from regulators.  Trucking company TransForce Inc. led the S&P/TSX by soaring
8.7 percent to a three-year high of C$12. In a note,  Benoit Poirier , an analyst at Desjardins Securities, said investors
should buy the stock before it announces third-quarter earnings
on Oct. 28, as “the shares are undervalued and we expect third-
quarter results to provide momentum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 