-- Chalco Forecasts Full-Year Profit After $17.7 Million Quarterly Net Loss
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-25T12:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/chalco-forecasts-full-year-profit-after-17-7-million-quarterly-net-loss.html
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest producer of the metal, forecast a full-year
profit even as it reported a consecutive quarterly loss after
government power controls curbed aluminum output.  Chalco, as the Beijing-based company is known, had a loss
of 117.8 million yuan ($17.7 million) for the three months ended
Sept. 30, according to a  statement  sent to the Shanghai stock
exchange. The loss compared with a profit of 21 million yuan a
year earlier.  China, the world’s biggest aluminum producer, has started
to control the output of energy-intensive industries including
steel and aluminum in some regions to meet energy-saving targets.
Aluminum prices have surged 21 percent since end-June after
Chalco and other producers curbed production.  “The production cut pushed up aluminum prices,” said  Owen Liang , a Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co.
before the result. The increased prices then helped to partially
offset the lower production, he said.  Shares  closed 0.4 percent higher at HK$7.88 at 4 p.m. in
Hong Kong. In  Shanghai trading , Chalco rose 4.4 percent to close
at 12.86 yuan before the earnings announcement.  Full-Year Profit  Sales rose to 29 billion yuan in the quarter from 17
billion yuan a year earlier, the company said.  “We expect to make a profit for the full-year period,”
Chalco said, without elaborating. It had a profit of 413 million
yuan for the nine-month period ended Sept. 30.  “The global economy continues to recover and the Chinese
economy grew steadily, fueling aluminum consumption,” the
company said in the statement. “Measures to cut costs have
begun to take effect, and the sales and profitability of main
products are improving.”  Chalco has shut 10 percent of its aluminum-making capacity
after local governments implemented power restrictions, analysts
 Heng Kun  at Essence Securities Co., and  Wan Ling , a senior
consultant at CRU International Ltd, said last week.  Chalco didn’t comment on production cuts in the statement.  Smelting plants with a combined capacity of at least
400,000 tons were closed, and those plants are in Henan, Guangxi,
Guizhou and Shanxi, Essence’s Heng said on Oct. 22.  Aluminum futures in Shanghai averaged 15,410 yuan a ton in
the quarter, up 5.9 percent from the same period of 2009,
according to Bloomberg data. Chinese authorities raised power
surcharges for some smelters by as much as 100 percent from June
to curb overcapacity.  Chalco’s unit Jiaozuo Wanfang Aluminum Manufacturing Co. in
Henan province said Oct. 18 that it halted one-third of its
annual production capacity due to power shortages.  -- Xiao Yu . With assistance from Huiwen Yang in Shanghai. Editors:
 Alan Soughley ,  Andrew Hobbs   To contact the Bloomberg News Staff of this story: Xiao Yu in
Beijing at   yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 