-- Chicago Storm May Beat 1975 Gale That Doomed Edmund Fitzgerald
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-10-25T22:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/chicago-storm-may-beat-1975-gale-that-doomed-freighter-edmund-fitzgerald.html
A storm stronger than the one that
sank the freighter Edmund Fitzgerald in 1975 is expected to
slash across the Midwest tomorrow, snarling Chicago travel and
whipping waves as high as 30 feet across Lake Michigan.  A line of severe thunderstorms driving wind gusts of 50
miles (80 kilometers) per hour will arrive before 10 a.m., said
Andrew Krein, a  National Weather Service  meteorologist in
Romeoville, Illinois.  “The morning commute is going to be really messy,” Krein
said. “Visibility is going to be almost nothing at least for a
short time.”  The storm will be a cyclone, with projected central
pressure, a measure of its strength, forecast to be 28.35
inches. That would make it the  second most severe system  to
strike the Great Lakes, according to the weather service.  The Edmund Fitzgerald sank on Nov. 10, 1975, in Lake
Superior about 17 miles north-northwest of Whitefish Point,
Michigan, with a crew of 29, according to the Great Lakes Ship
Wreck Museum’s  website . “The Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald”
by Canadian singer  Gordon Lightfoot  climbed to No. 2 on the
Billboard pop charts in 1976.  The Edmund Fitzgerald storm had a central pressure of 28.95
inches. The strongest storm recorded in the lakes was the
“Great Ohio Blizzard” of January 1978, which had a central
pressure of 28.05 inches.  Hurricane Comparison  In comparison, when Hurricane Earl reached Category 3
strength in the Atlantic at the end of August, its central
pressure was recorded at 28.20 inches.  Great Lakes cyclones aren’t like hurricanes, however, Krein
said. The storms gather their energy from the Jet Stream and the
upper atmosphere, while hurricanes draw their power from warm
ocean waters and have the strongest winds wound tightly around
the core.  Krein said the storm also isn’t likely to produce a lot of
rain. Aside from the heavy thunderstorms that arrive with the
first blast of wind, the weather will be drier and breaks may
appear in the clouds.  The blue sky shouldn’t deceive anyone, he said. The storm
will last at least two days and will cause a problem for large
trucks and possibly trains, as well as ships on  Lake Michigan .  United Continental Holdings Inc. and AMR Corp.’s American
Airlines, which have hubs at Chicago’s O’Hare airport, are both
watching weather forecasts and haven’t yet determined whether
they will need to cancel any flights tomorrow, spokeswomen for
the carriers said.  In advance of the storm, the weather service has issued a
high wind watch from South Dakota to Ohio. A watch means
sustained winds of as much as 40 mph are possible. In addition,
a high wind warning, meaning gusts of 75 mph are possible, has
been issued for parts of northern Illinois and Wisconsin,
according to the weather service.  A storm warning has been issued for Lake Michigan and Lake
Superior.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomber.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  