-- China Raises Fuel Prices to Help Cool Economy, Conserve Energy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-26T10:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/china-raises-gasoline-diesel-prices-effective-tomorrow-government-says.html
China, Asia’s biggest oil consumer,
increased retail gasoline and diesel prices by 3 percent today
as part of government measures to cool the economy and meet
energy-saving targets.  The ceiling for gasoline prices will rise by 230 yuan
($34.50) a metric ton and diesel prices will gain 220 yuan a ton,
the National Development and Reform Commission, the top economic
planner, said in a statement on its website yesterday.  The economy grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter, the
least in a year, as the government curbed credit growth, clamped
down on property speculation and chased energy-efficiency and
pollution targets. The NDRC’s last fuel-price adjustment was in
June, when the agency cut the cost of gasoline and diesel.  “The modest price hike is not a shock as China is keen to
slow down the economy and improve energy efficiency through
interest rate hikes and incremental fuel price increases,”
 Gordon Kwan , head of regional energy research at Mirae Asset
Securities (HK) Ltd., said in e-mailed comments.  The government has made 12 adjustments since introducing a
mechanism in December 2008 that allows the NDRC to revise prices
when crude costs change more than 4 percent over 22 working days.
Fuel prices were last raised by as much as 4.6 percent in April.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , the country’s biggest
refiner known as Sinopec, fell 0.5 percent to close at 9.17 yuan
in Shanghai trading.  PetroChina Co.  gained 1 percent to 11.56
yuan. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.3 percent.  Refining Profit  Sinopec and PetroChina will benefit from the adjustment
with crude in New York climbing 13 percent since June 1, when
the NDRC cut gasoline prices by 230 yuan a ton and the price of
diesel by 220 yuan a ton.  PetroChina’s first-half refining margins fell from a year
earlier, the company said in its earnings statement on Aug. 26,
without giving a figure. Sinopec’s profit from refining crude
slumped 45 percent during the period.  “The increase isn’t quite enough given the rise in global
crude prices,” said  Shi Yan , a Shanghai-based oil analyst at
UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. “Once refiners deplete the cheaper crude
inventories bought in September, their net profit will just be
about breakeven at current oil prices after taking into account
this fuel price increase.”  Sinopec  rose 3.1 percent to close at HK$7.65 in Hong Kong
trading, while PetroChina gained 0.9 percent. The benchmark Hang
Seng Index declined 0.1 percent.  Inflationary Risks  Higher gasoline and diesel prices will add to costs for
manufacturers and farmers and increase inflationary risks.
Consumer-price growth quickened to 3.6 percent in September.  While higher fuel charges will affect  inflation 
expectations “to some extent,” the effect on overall prices
will be “very small,” the NDRC said in a separate statement
yesterday. The stronger value of the yuan reduced the extent of
the increase, according to the NDRC.  The yuan has advanced 2.53 percent against the dollar this
year. The currency closed at 6.6581 versus the dollar yesterday.  “The priority of the government is to ensure fuel supplies,
while keeping the refiners in business,” said  Laban Yu , an
analyst at Macquarie Hong Kong Ltd. “It usually raises prices
as little as possible as it’s not in the business of over-
rewarding refining companies with super high margins.”  The country’s crude processing grew the least in 18 months
in September. Industrial output in that month rose 13.3 percent
from a year earlier, missing the median 14 percent growth
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists.  China has been shutting factories and coal mines to help
meet Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s goal of cutting energy consumption per
unit of gross domestic product by 20 percent in the five years
ending 2010.  -- Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai,  Chua Baizhen  and  Wang Ying  in Beijing,
and  John Duce  in Hong Kong. Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Jane Lee .  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ying Wang  in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 