-- China's Stocks Rise to Six-Month High on Profit Outlook, Materials Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-25T08:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/china-s-stocks-rise-to-6-month-high-as-consumer-technology-shares-climb.html
China stocks  gained, driving the
benchmark index to a six-month high, after companies from
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. to  Gree Electric Appliances Inc.  posted
higher profit and rising commodities boosted materials producers.  Yanzhou Coal jumped by the daily 10 percent limit after net
income more than tripled.  Jiangxi Copper Co.  rallied as the
dollar weakened and commodity prices strengthened after Group of
20 finance leaders said they will limit currency intervention.
Gree Electric surged to the highest level this year, pacing
gains by appliance makers. Software developer  Neusoft Corp.  led
an advance by technology stocks after the government said it
will start a cloud computing trial.  “We are in a bull market as the market is turning more
optimistic about corporate earnings and macroeconomic
fundamentals amid the backdrop of abundant liquidity,” said
 Zhang Ling , a fund manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  advanced 76.38, or 2.6 percent,
to 3,051.42 at the 3 p.m. close, the highest since April 16. The
gauge has jumped 15 percent this month, the best performer among
the 89 benchmark indexes tracked globally by Bloomberg, after
lagging behind rallies in other emerging markets. The  CSI 300
Index  climbed 3 percent to 3,481.08 today.  All 10  indexes  on the CSI 300 advanced more than 1 percent
today. Gauges tracking materials and energy producers gained the
most, climbing 5.2 percent and 4.1 percent, respectively.  Yanzhou Coal, the Chinese company that paid more than $3
billion for Australia’s Felix Resources Ltd., jumped 10 percent
to 31.33 yuan. Third-quarter net income increased to 3.68
billion yuan ($553 million) as production rose to meet domestic
demand, the company said.  Weaker Dollar  Other coal companies advanced. China Shenhua Energy Co., a
unit of the largest producer, climbed 3.9 percent to 30.04 yuan.
China Coal Energy Co. added 2.5 percent to 13.14 yuan.  Metals producers climbed as industrial metals rallied on
demand from investors seeking to protect their wealth against a
decline in the dollar. Copper advanced toward a 27-month high,
while zinc and lead rose to their highest level since January.  Jiangxi Copper, the nation’s biggest producer of the metal,
surged the maximum 10 percent to 48.74 yuan, its highest close
since July 2009. Yunnan Copper Industry Co. climbed 10 percent
to 31.10 yuan. Western Mining Co., a maker of zinc concentrate,
soared 8.7 percent to 19.80 yuan, capping a 35 percent advance
this year.  “Metals have moved beyond their fundamentals now and it’s
basically speculative demand linked to a weaker dollar that’s
supporting higher prices,” said Sun Zhiyin, an analyst at
Shanghai Continent Futures Co.  Yuan Policy  G-20 policy makers called for more sustainable current-
account gaps without embracing a U.S. proposal for targets, as
they ended talks in South Korea on Oct. 23. The G-20 Seoul
Summit will be held on Nov. 11 and 12.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he expects
China will let the yuan to strengthen as officials there
understand it’s in the interest both of domestic growth and
global economic stability. Yuan forwards recovered from their
steepest slide in 22 months, climbing 0.4 percent.  Investors have poured record amounts of money into
emerging-market equity funds this year as U.S. benchmark
interest rates near zero spurred demand for higher-yielding
assets abroad, EPFR Global data show. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said more monetary stimulus may be warranted after $1.7
trillion of debt purchases failed to spur growth. Fed policy
makers are set to meet on Nov. 2-3.  Second-Half Rally  The Shanghai Composite has gained 27 percent in the second
half of 2010, rebounding from a 27 percent loss in the first six
months that was spurred by government moves to curb new lending
and limit property speculation. The gauge is still down 6.9
percent this year compared with a 13 percent rally for the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index.   Credit Suisse Group AG increased its 12-month forecasts for
the MSCI China Index, Hang Seng China Enterprises Index and
Shanghai A-Share Index by 14 percent to 27 percent on stronger-
than-expected earnings growth. Still, China’s stocks aren’t
likely to repeat the “bull-market run” that occurred during
2004-2008, according to the report by  Vincent Chan  and  Peggy Chan  at Credit Suisse.  Gree Electric, the largest maker of home air-conditioners,
jumped 6.9 percent to 19.18 yuan after reporting a 73 percent
increase in third-quarter profit.  Luzhou Laojiao Co. , a sprits
producer in southwest province of Sichuan, surged 9.5 percent to
41.14 yuan. The company said third-quarter net income rose 33
percent from a year earlier.  Consumer Demand  Hefei Meiling Co. , a manufacturer of refrigerators and air-
conditioners, advanced 3.2 percent to 11.74 yuan. The stock was
raised to “outperform” because of the company’s growth
potential, analysts  Hu Yali  and  Liao Xinyu  at Citic Securities
Co. wrote in a report today.  China’s focus on both income growth and redistribution in
its next five-year economic plan is bullish for the nation’s
consumer stocks, according to China International Capital Corp.  “This emerging affluent mass is rapidly becoming an
important social-economic group, and its consumption preference
and aspirations are likely to determine the direction of Chin
future consumption to a large extent,”  Hao Hong , a Beijing-
based global equity strategist, wrote in a report. “This
secular trend, with increasing policy support from the top, is
bullish for consumer sectors.”  Neusoft gained 6.1 percent to 19.29 yuan. Aisino Co., a
manufacturer of electronics and telecommunication equipment,
climbed 6.9 percent to 21.50 yuan. China selected Beijing,
Shanghai and three other cities to start a cloud computing trial,
the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology said.  -- Zhang Shidong ,  Chua Kong Ho . Editors:  Richard Frost ,  Allen Wan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  