-- Energy Use in China May Further Slow on Government's Conservation Target
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-25T03:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/china-s-energy-use-may-slow-further-on-government-s-curbs-to-cool-economy.html
China’s energy demand may slow
further as the government takes steps to meet conservation
targets and to cool the world’s fastest-growing economy.  Energy consumption gains may be curbed in the fourth
quarter after easing in July to September, the National Energy
Administration said in a statement today. China plans to close
1,539 small, unsafe coal mines this year and has met 88 percent
of this target by the end of September, Wang Siqiang, a deputy
director at the administration, told reporters in Beijing.  China has been shutting factories and coal mines to help
meet Premier Wen Jiabao’s goal of cutting energy consumption per
unit of gross domestic product by 20 percent in the five years
ending 2010. Government controls slowed power consumption by
heavy industries in the third quarter, the energy administration
said in the statement.  Heavy industries used 193.9 billion kilowatt-hours in
September, down 17 percent from the previous month, according to
the statement. Overall, China’s electricity demand fell 12
percent to 349.8 billion kilowatt-hours compared with August.  Factories, which consume more than 70 percent of the
nation’s electricity, produced at a slower rate in September
compared with August, according to government data on Oct. 21.  The economy grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter, the
smallest increase in a year, as the government reined in credit
growth, clamped down on property speculation and chased energy-
efficiency and pollution targets. Factory output rose 13.3
percent in September from a year earlier, missing the median 14
percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists.  China may shut 12 gigawatts of inefficient power plants
this year, Wang said.  Winter Gas Supplies  Natural gas supply may be “tight” this winter and in the
following spring, the energy administration said.  Producers of oil, gas and coal, as well as electricity
distributors, have been told to take precautionary measures to
ensure adequate energy supplies in anticipation of a cold winter,
Wang said.  The energy administration has ordered state-controlled
 PetroChina Co. , the country’s biggest oil and gas producer, to
operate its gas fields at full capacity during winter, according
to Wang. Cnooc Ltd. and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.  have
also been told to increase gas supplies, he said.  China may import 12 billion cubic meters, or 8.8 million
tons, of liquefied natural gas and 4 billion cubic meters of gas
by pipeline this year, according to the administration.  Coal Imports  Growth in imports of coal, used by about 80 percent of
China’s power plants as fuel, may slow in the fourth quarter,
the administration said. The country will have “relatively
ample” supplies during that period because of the easing in
factory production growth, Wang said.  China may add 90 gigawatts of electricity generating
capacity this year, Wang said.  Overall capacity may exceed 950 gigawatts by the end of the
year, the energy administration said. Coal-fired capacity may
reach 700 gigawatts, hydropower 210 gigawatts and wind-power 35
gigawatts. Solar-power capacity may double from a year earlier
to 600 megawatts, according to the administration.  -- Wang Ying  and  Chua Baizhen . Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  John Viljoen .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 