-- China Sends General Guo to Mark North Korea's `Historical Great Victory'
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-25T04:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/china-sends-general-guo-to-mark-north-korea-s-historical-great-victory-.html
China sent top-ranking general  Guo Boxiong  to North Korea to celebrate the 60th anniversary of its
entry into the Korean War that he said resulted in “victory”
over the “imperialist aggression” led by U.S. troops.  Guo, a vice chairman of the Central Military Commission,
headed the military delegation to North Korea, attending
ceremonies in the Stalinist state yesterday, according to a
 report  on the website of China’s defense ministry. The
delegation laid wreaths in the name of Chinese President  Hu Jintao  and other leaders at a memorial for Chinese soldiers
killed in the 1950-1953 conflict.  “Sixty years ago, in order to support the Korean people
against imperialist aggression and to defend justice and peace,
the Chinese People’s Volunteers crossed the Yalu River and began
military operations and close coordination with the Korean
people and army, winning a historical great victory,” Guo said
at a ceremony in South Pyongan province. The Chinese sacrifices
“cemented with blood the unbreakable friendship between China
and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.”  Guo’s visit is at least the second by a member of the
Communist Party’s ruling Politburo in two weeks, demonstrating
close ties between China and North Korea following years of
United Nations sanctions for its nuclear program. China has
publicly resisted calls to back the findings of an international
probe blaming North Korea for the sinking of a South Korean
naval vessel in March.  Later yesterday, Guo joined North Korean Premier  Choe Yong Rim  and other leaders for a banquet in Pyongyang to mark the
anniversary, China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Forced Retreat  In late 1950, U.S.-led forces fighting in the Korean War
overran North Korea’s military, with advance elements reaching
the Chinese border on the Yalu River. On Oct. 25 of that year,
Chinese troops entered the conflict, forcing the U.S.-led
contingent into a retreat. The front eventually settled near the
38th parallel at the present-day demarcation between the two
Koreas.  North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  depends on China, his
nation’s biggest trading partner and closest ally, to bolster
his regime amid continued international sanctions. North Korea’s
economy is about 3 percent the size of South Korea’s, according
to Bank of Korea data released June 25.  Politburo Standing Committee member  Zhou Yongkang , China’s
top law-enforcement official, stood to the left of Kim on the
reviewing stands during an Oct. 10 military parade in Pyongyang.
The night before, as many as 50,000 North Korean dancers,
acrobats, soldiers and children took part in the annual Arirang
festival celebrating ties between the two countries, donning
panda costumes and clashing cymbals in Pyongyang’s May Day
stadium. Placards proclaimed “North Korea-China friendship” in
Chinese characters.  Kim Jong Il has made an unprecedented two trips to China
this year, both times meeting with President Hu.  Guo, speaking at the veterans’ memorial, said that both
countries must “make new great new contributions to safeguard
regional and world peace and stability,” the Defense Ministry
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net . 