-- Chrysler to Start Engine Output Next Month, Raising Fiat Stake
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-10-25T22:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/chrysler-to-start-engine-output-next-month-triggering-boost-in-fiat-stake.html
Chrysler Group LLC will begin
producing a Fiat-derived four-cylinder engine in early November,
a step required to increase Fiat SpA’s ownership stake.  Output of the 1.4-liter engine is one of three milestones
needed for Turin, Italy-based Fiat to increase its 20 percent
ownership of Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler.  “It’s going to be early in November” when production
begins, Gualberto Ranieri, a Chrysler spokesman, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. He said everything is on
schedule.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both Chrysler
and Fiat, last week said Fiat plans to boost its stake to 25
percent by the first quarter and to 35 percent by the end of
next year. Fiat acquired control of Chrysler in the U.S.
automaker’s bankruptcy reorganization last year.  Marchionne has said Chrysler may hold an initial public
offering in the second half of 2011.  As part of the restructuring deal,  Fiat  can increase its
stake in 5 percent increments to 35 percent by achieving three
milestones. In addition to introducing the small engine,
Chrysler must build a vehicle in the U.S. that gets 40 miles per
gallon and meet sales and revenue targets outside of North
America.  The majority of Chrysler’s ownership is held by a trust
established to cover medical costs for union retirees.  Governmental Approvals  The Fiat ownership stake increase is triggered by
Chrysler’s receipt of government approvals for the engine,
according to Chrysler’s operating agreement posted on the U.S.
Treasury Department’s website.  The U.S. must also receive an “irrevocable commitment by
the company” to begin commercial production of the engine “as
soon as commercially practicable,” according to the document.  Mark Paustenbach , a Treasury spokesman, declined to
elaborate.  Chrysler said last year it would invest $179 million into
an engine plant in Dundee, Michigan, for what it calls the Fully
Integrated Robotized Engine to be used in the Fiat 500 small
car, which will be made in Mexico.  “Fiat’s share will increase automatically by 5 percent
when this milestone is reached,” a Chrysler spokeswoman,  Eileen Wunderlich , said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  