-- Citigroup's Pandit Says Basel Accords Could Make Credit Crunches Worse
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2010-10-25T21:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/citigroup-s-pandit-says-basel-accords-could-make-credit-crunches-worse.html
Citigroup Inc . Chief Executive
Officer  Vikram Pandit  said many of the goals set by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision are likely to be ineffective or
make existing capital inequalities worse.  While Pandit supports higher capital levels, Basel’s rules
have a cyclical quality that lowers targets in good times and
raises them in bad times, the CEO said today in the prepared
text of a speech at the Buttonwood Gathering in New York. The
result could be “piling risk into the system” when the  economy 
is strong as capital requirements fall, while “raising the cost
of credit precisely when credit is needed most” during weak
economies, he said.  “By creating an illusion of safety, Basel actually dulls
the sense of urgency further,” said Pandit, 53, whose company
is based in New York and ranked third by assets in the U.S.  Citigroup,  12 percent-owned  by U.S. taxpayers, is grappling
with stricter financial regulation in the wake of the 2008
financial crisis, during which the bank received a $45 billion
bailout. The so-called “Basel III” accords are designed to
keep the banking system from “falling into crisis again,”
Pandit said.  New regulatory goals announced in September by the panel,
made up of regulators from 27 nations, has triggered a “bidding
war” for setting the highest capital targets in different
countries that will hurt economies, Pandit said.  Credit Scores  Pandit also objected to Basel’s use of credit scores to
measure risk for borrowers. Basel lifts capital requirements for
loans to people with so-called FICO scores lower than 700 --more
than a third of the U.S. population -- by 75 percent, while
dropping the capital target by 20 percent for consumers with
scores above 700, Pandit said.  “Basing risk measurements almost entirely on credit scores
and data from the crisis years will mean that the ‘haves’ who
need credit the least will get the most, and pay the least for
it,” Pandit said. “The ‘have-nots’ who need credit the most
will be hurt the most.”  In the developed world, the result may be that banks
collect retail deposits from smaller, stable customers and lend
mainly to big companies and the wealthy, Pandit said.  “I don’t believe this is the banking system we want,” he
said.  Equity Targets  John Gerspach , chief financial officer of Citigroup, which
reported third-quarter net profit of $2.2 billion last week,
told employees in September that the bank is “very
comfortable” with the new Tier 1 common equity requirements set
by Basel.  Pandit told the audience Citigroup didn’t need to halt
foreclosures, unlike rivals such as Bank of America Corp. and
Ally Financial Inc., because his bank has “integrity in the
process.” Some lenders had imposed temporary freezes on
 foreclosures  after allegations that lenders took shortcuts by
using improper documents and signatures to justify seizing homes
from overdue borrowers. The banks have denied any intent to
deceive the courts.  Citigroup will be “delighted” to work with the new
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the U.S. agency set up as
part of the financial-services industry overhaul enacted this
year, Pandit said.  The new agency will “focus on creating more transparency,
choice and control for banking customers, all goals that we at
Citi fully support and had begun implementing even before the
new laws were passed and the bureau created,” Pandit said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Donal Griffin  in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 