-- Terra Firma's Hands Had Trusted Advice, Citigroup Banker Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/citigroup-s-wormsley-says-terra-firma-s-hands-trusted-my-word-.html
David Wormsley , the  Citigroup Inc. 
banker accused by  Guy Hands  of misleading him in the 2007
auction of  EMI Group Ltd. , testified that Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd. founder would have trusted his advice at times.  Wormsley, 50, was called as a hostile witness yesterday by
Terra Firma, whose $8.3 billion suit against Citigroup is on
trial in federal court in Manhattan. Wormsley spent 25 minutes
on the stand before U.S. District Judge  Jed S. Rakoff  sent the
nine-member jury home for the evening.  “There were situations in which Mr. Hands would have
trusted my word and advice,” Wormsley said under questioning
from  David Boies , the lead lawyer for Hands and Terra Firma. “I
would always be as truthful and honest as I could be.”  Boies introduced a series of e-mails sent by Wormsley in
which, Wormsley testified, he was trying to strengthen the
relationship between London-Based Terra Firma and New York-based
Citigroup.  “I know it may seem strange to advise you how to handle
the banks, but I am incapable of not trying to get you the best
possible outcome,” Wormsley said in a November 2006 e-mail to
Hands.  Terra Firma claims Wormsley falsely told Hands in three
telephone calls on the weekend before a May 21, 2007, auction
that Cerberus Capital Management LP planned to submit a
competing bid for EMI, a 113-year-old music publishing and
recording company based in London. Instead, Cerberus had decided
not to bid, leaving Terra Firma without competition.  ‘Big Love’  In another e-mail from November 2006, Wormsley tried to
convince former Citigroup executive  Julian Mylchreest  to meet
with representatives of Terra Firma in London.  “For reasons I won’t go into, we have to show big love to
Terra Firma,” Wormsley wrote.  Hands, in testimony over four days that ended this morning,
claimed that if he had known New York-based Cerberus wasn’t
bidding, Terra Firma, which paid $6.7 billion for EMI, would
have stayed out of the auction and negotiated a better price.
Citigroup lent more than $5 billion in the EMI deal.  Citigroup’s lawyers have tried to show that Terra Firma’s
bid was based on due diligence the firm conducted before the
auction, as well as conversations with EMI’s chief executive
officer and Terra Firma’s estimate of the company’s worth, and
not on any information passed along by Wormsley.  Testimony to Continue  Wormsley will be back on the stand when the trial resumes
today.  Ted Wells , a lawyer for Citigroup, will have a chance to
question Wormsley once Boies is finished with his examination.  Hands, in concluding his testimony yesterday, told jurors
about his business relationship with Wormsley at the time of the
EMI acquisition.  “He was a friend,” Hands said. “He was someone I
trusted. He had given me good information on companies we had
purchased in the past.”  Because Hands and Wormsley were designated as corporate
representatives for their respective sides, they are the only
witnesses who are permitted to remain in the courtroom and watch
other witnesses testify.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 