-- Coal India Raises Maximum $3.4 Billion in IPO of World's Biggest Producer
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2010-10-26T05:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/coal-india-raises-maximum-3-4-billion-in-ipo-of-world-s-biggest-producer.html
Coal India Ltd.’s share sale raised
the maximum 152 billion rupees ($3.4 billion) sought for the
government after investors ordered 15 times the stock available
in the nation’s biggest initial public offering.  The government sold 631.6 million shares in the world’s
biggest coal producer at 245 rupees apiece, the top of a range
marketed to investors, Coal Minister  Sriprakash Jaiswal  said in
New Delhi yesterday. The Kolkata-based company, valued at $34
billion, is due to start trading in Mumbai on Nov. 4.  Coal India attracted bids worth at least $48.7 billion as
an accelerating economy drives energy demand and a surging stock
market draws record inflows. The response is a boost for Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh , who’s seeking 400 billion rupees from
seven planned stock sales by March to rein in the budget deficit.  “Demand is never a problem in India,” said  Ashutosh Tiwari , an analyst at Equirus Securities Pvt. in Ahmedabad, who
estimates the fair value of Coal India’s stock is 299 rupees.
“The problem is on the supply side and Coal India will benefit
from all this demand. There are few risks with Coal India.”  At 245 rupees a share, Coal India’s price-to-earnings ratio
for the year ending March 31 is 13.7, Tiwari said. That compares
with 17 times for Peabody Energy Corp., the largest U.S. coal
producer, and 16 times for China Shenhua Energy Co. in the year
ending Dec. 31, he said.  Indian IPOs  Coal India’s offer extended Citigroup Inc.’s lead as the
number one arranger of equity sales in India this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Second-ranked Kotak
Mahindra Capital Co. also helped manage the sale with Enam
Securities Pvt.,  Deutsche Bank AG , Bank of America Corp. and
 Morgan Stanley .  Indian companies have announced 121 initial offerings in
2010, four times the number of first-time share sales a year
earlier, according to Bloomberg.  Overseas investors have poured 1.12 trillion rupees into
Asia’s fourth-biggest equity market this year, lifting the
Sensitive Index to near an all-time high. The 10 percent stake
sale in Coal India surpassed the 116 billion rupees raised by
billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s  Reliance Power Ltd . in January 2008 as
India’s biggest IPO.  The government plans to sell shares in seven more companies
in the next five months, Disinvestment Secretary  Sumit Bose  said
Oct. 19. State-run  Power Grid Corp . of India Ltd. is scheduled
to start its follow-on offer on Nov. 9.  Coal Demand  India’s coal demand may more than triple in the next two
decades to 2 billion metric tons, Coal Minister Jaiswal said on
Sept. 24. The country, which uses coal to produce more than half
of its electricity, is building power plants and steel mills to
meet demand in the $1.3 trillion economy, which expanded at the
fastest pace in 2 1/2 years in the three months ended June 30.  India produces 530 million tons of coal a year and imports
about 67 million tons, Jaiswal said at the time. Coal India has
proven reserves of 52.55 billion tons, of which 21.75 billion is
extractable, the company’s share-sale document shows.  Coal India and its units had a net income of 25.2 billion
rupees in the three months ended June 30, according to the IPO
prospectus. Profit in the year ended March 31 more than doubled
to 98.3 billion rupees and sales rose 15 percent to 446.2
billion rupees.  China Shenhua Energy, a unit of the nation’s largest coal
producer, has a market value of about $90 billion and  Peabody
Energy , $14 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.com ;
 Anto Antony  in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 