-- Cocky Brands Bash Growers in Champagne’s Battle of the Bubbles
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2010-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/cocky-brands-bash-growers-in-champagne-s-battle-of-the-bubbles-elin-mccoy.html
High up over Central Park, glass in
hand, I listen to Pierre-Emanuel Taittinger’s theories of
champagne and seduction.  Taittinger, president of his family’s eponymous champagne
house, drinks a bottle a day.  Champagne, he says, can be a great help “when you’re with
a beautiful woman and you’re not a genius.”  But in the wine region where some of the most important
battles in European history were fought, today’s clashes are no
wars of the sexes. They’re over the authenticity and image of
the world’s finest fizz.  The big houses champion style, sensuality and how their
world-famous brands are luxe products for the good life. Small
family grower-producers advocate wine and terroir, the link of
the taste of the bubbly in your glass to a special patch of soil
that gives it character. Which side is winning the battle of the
buzz?  Taittinger, 57, casts his world-famous company somewhere in
the middle as we sample his fruity non-vintage Brut Prestige
rose ($70 retail) with restaurant A Voce’s goat’s milk panna
cotta, a surprisingly good match.  “We are growers first,” he insists, citing the company’s
650 acres of vineyards, which provide 50 percent of the grapes
for their 5 million bottles a year.  His uncle,  Claude Taittinger , created Comtes de Champagne,
the company’s hyper-elegant all-chardonnay flagship fizz, which
 Ian Fleming  made James Bond’s favorite champagne in “Casino
Royale.” The delicate, flawless 1999 ($135) is a stunner that
danced on my tongue.  Family Affair  Once a family empire that owned luxury hotels, Baccarat
crystal, and a perfume house, Taittinger was sold off in 2005
for 2.1 billion euros ($2.93 billion) to private-equity firm
Starwood Capital Group when most of the heirs voted to cash in.
A year later, when Starwood decided to divest the champagne
house, Pierre-Emmanuel won it back for his branch of the family
“in a fierce battle” -- with the financial help of French bank
Credit Agricole du Nord Est.  To the consternation of grandes marques like Taittinger,
buzz for the wine geeks’ choice, grower champagnes, is now,
well, effervescent, though they account for only 3.5 percent of
what’s sold in the U.S.  “The big brands are icons, like  Greta Garbo ,  Marilyn Monroe ,  Brigitte Bardot ,” says Pierre-Emmanuel, who was
dismayed to find only grower champagnes on one hip restaurant
list.  Is Blended Better?  The 200-plus grandes marques blend wines that are mostly
purchased from hundreds of the region’s 19,000 growers in
different villages to create house styles. “People are
forgetting that champagne is classically a blend of vintages and
vineyards -- a painting with 25 colors,” he says. “Complexity
is not the same with a monopole (single vineyard).”  The grower story is different, often spun as a David and
Goliath tale. About 2,200 small grower-producers draw grapes
from one to several vineyards to make their own sparklers. Often
they own only a few acres in one or two villages and many make
well under 50,000 bottles a year.  Tasting my way through 300 bubblies in the past two months,
I’d say the best on both sides give pleasure. Big doesn’t mean
bad, and small is not always beautiful.  I admit I find most non-vintage big, brand blends fairly
dull. I prefer Taittinger’s complex non-vintage Prelude ($65),
made from all grands crus vineyards, to their middling NV Brut
La Francaise ($40). The polished and harmonious vintage
bottlings and tete de cuvees, like Comtes de Champagne, shine.  Tug of War  Grower champagnes are where quality, price and
individuality intersect. Jose Dhondt’s 2005 Brut Blanc de Blancs
“Mes Vieilles Vignes” ($70), from chalky vineyards in the
village of Oger, has very precise, incisive flavors plus a deep
complexity, while 2002 Vazart-Coquart Special Club Blanc de
Blancs ($70), from the village of Chouilly, is lemony and
savory, with hints of fresh herbs.  But several well-known big houses offer single vineyard
sparklers that also show terroir, like the intense, creamy, very
pure 1999 Philipponat Clos des Goisses ($140).  Despite the tug of war for champagne’s soul -- or maybe
just its marketing image -- big brands and small growers are
united in the battle over the use of “champagne” as a generic
term for sparkling wine. It’s been going on for decades, and
doesn’t let up.  As part of the European Union and U.S. wine accord signed
in March 2006, new American sparklers were banned from using the
term on their labels. Those already doing so could continue --
unless they want to sell in Europe.  Two years ago, Belgian customs authorities smashed 3,200
bottles of Gallo’s bottom-end gasser Andre California
“champagne” that turned up on a ship.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 