-- Coffee Harvest in Vietnam May Climb on Favorable Weather, Increased Area
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-25T04:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/coffee-harvest-in-vietnam-may-total-1-2-million-tons-according-to-survey.html
Coffee production in Vietnam, the
largest robusta grower, may climb this year after favorable
weather and expanded planting boosted the harvest, potentially
easing a global shortage that’s driven prices to a two-year high.  The crop may total 1.2 million metric tons, or 20 million
60-kilogram bags, in the year from Oct. 1, according to the
median from a Bloomberg News survey of 10 growers, analysts and
traders. That compares with last year’s harvest of 1.05 million
tons, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Separately, officials in Vietnam’s three largest growing
provinces -- Dak Lak, Lam Dong and Gia Lai -- all forecast gains.  The increased production of the beans used in espressos and
instant drinks may help to curb the advance in robusta futures,
trading at their highest since 2008. Indonesia, a rival robusta
grower, may increase output as much 3 percent to 10 million bags
this year, according to the  International Coffee Organization .  “The crop looked positive, with some increase in
production,” said Pham Dinh Khai, director of An Giang Coffee
Co.’s branch in Buon Ma Thuot, the capital of Dak Lak. Khai, one
of the survey participants, predicted that nationwide output
would be “at least” 1.2 million tons.  Robusta Rally  Robusta has advanced 34 percent over the past year amid
what  Nestor Osorio , the outgoing executive director of the
International Coffee Organization, said on Sept. 7 was a “very
tight situation between supply and demand.” The most-active
contract on NYSE Liffe in London touched $1,910 a ton on Oct. 21,
the highest since Oct. 14, 2008, and ended at $1,826 last week.  Arabica reached $2.035 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. on Oct.
21, the highest price in 13 years. Output in Brazil, the biggest
producer, may drop to the lowest level in four years in 2011
after a drought hurt flowering and plants enter the lower-
yielding half of a two-year cycle, the National Coffee Council,
a growers’ group, said Oct. 22.  “Favorable weather has helped buoy the crop,” said Bui
Hung Manh, head of the business department at Tay Nguyen Coffee
Investment, Import and Export Co, referring to adequate rains,
which aid flowering and fruiting. “Some new coffee-planting
areas have started producing beans from this crop as well.”  Forecasts in the Bloomberg survey, undertaken between Oct.
11 and Oct. 22, ranged from 17.7 million to 22 million bags,
with two forecasting a fall and eight looking for a gain. The
USDA forecast for last year’s crop was issued in a June report.  ‘Reasonable Rainfall’  Coffee bushes in Vietnam usually flower and form fruits
between January and March, according to growers. “Vietnam
experienced reasonable rainfall during blossoming, which was
followed by good fruit-setting and cherry development,” the
USDA said in the June report. The harvest usually starts Oct. 1  “Thanks to good weather during flowering period, the trees
have more cherries this year,” said Pham Van An, head of the
Lam Dong agricultural department. An, who didn’t contribute to
the survey, forecast output from Lam Dong, the second-largest
growing province, may gain 10 percent to about 330,000 tons.  Van Phu Bo, head of the cultivation office at Gia Lai’s
agricultural department, forecast an increase in local output of
4.3 percent to 146,000 tons. Nguyen Van Sinh, deputy director of
the agricultural department in Dak Lak, forecast a 5.3 percent
gain to 400,000 tons.  Coffee companies expect the government to provide low-
interest loans this season to help them to stockpile beans, the
Vietnam Coffee and Cocoa Association said on Oct. 11. The plan,
similar to state support offered late during the last harvest,
may enable them to hold 300,000 to 500,000 tons from 2010-2011
output, said  Luong Van Tu , chairman of the group known as Vicofa.  -- Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen . Editors:  Jake Lloyd-Smith ,  Richard Dobson   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  