-- Cold Front in China Lifts Cotton Prices to a Record, May Boost Coal Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-25T04:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/cold-spell-may-hurt-harvest-of-china-cotton-wheat-crops-government-says.html
A cold front moving across China may
damage crops and boost demand for heating fuels, potentially 
boosting coal prices trading at their highest level in more than
two months. Cotton jumped to a record.  Strong winds from the north are affecting most of China,
bringing rain and cold temperatures, the China Meteorological
Center said. The weather will hamper harvesting, it said in a
statement yesterday.  Cotton in China and New York gained to records on concern
hailstorms damaged crops in Texas, the largest U.S. grower, and
forecasts for cold weather in the Asian nation. China has faced
power shortages in past winters, when heating demand surged and
heavy snow disrupted road and rail transportation of coal, which
fuels about 80 percent of its power stations.  “Cotton prices in China are completely out of control,
with the news of hail in Texas and cold weather in China all
fueling the concern about tight supply,” Yuan Renqing, analyst
at Baocheng Futures Co., said by phone from Jinan, Shandong.  Cotton futures on the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange climbed
by the daily 5 percent limit to 26,270 yuan ($3,947) a metric
ton, the highest ever. December contracts on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York gained to a record $1.2471 a pound.  In China, “low temperatures and rains will slow down the
harvesting of cotton and hurt fiber quality,” the
meteorological center said. “It will also make it hard for the
drying and storage of grains that have already been harvested.”  Temperature Plunge  Inner Mongolia, Hebei, Shandong, Jiangsu and large parts of
the country’s northeast will see temperatures fall by 14 to 16
degrees Celsius, the report said. Farmers in the south are still
planting winter wheat and rapeseed crops along the Yangtze River
are in the seedling stage, the center said. Harvesting of cotton
is continuing in Xinjiang, it said.  “Coal prices will be affected more or less by the cold
spell,” David Fang, a director at China Coal Transport and
Distribution Association, said in Beijing today. “The drop in
temperature will prompt power stations to pick up the pace of
stockpiling.”  Coal prices at Qinhuangdao port, a Chinese benchmark, rose
to the highest in more than two months on Oct. 18. The price of
power-station coal with an energy value of 5,500 kilocalories
per kilogram reached between 730 yuan and 745 yuan a ton, the
highest since Aug. 2, according to the association.  Coal Stockpiling  Power stations have started stockpiling coal to meet demand
this winter, with inventories at grid-connected facilities
rising 6.6 percent in the month to Oct. 10 at a total of 62.8
million tons, according to data from the China Coal Transport
and Distribution Association. That’s enough for 21 days of
consumption, compared with 18 days a month earlier.  State-owned energy companies have also increased supply of
natural gas to meet the increase in heating demand.  China National Offshore Oil Corp. will import 10 million
tons, or 13 billion cubic meters, of liquefied natural gas this
year, Beijing Daily reported on Oct. 21, citing Wang Jiaxiang,
general manager of the company’s power and gas unit.  The Beijing-based company’s total domestic natural gas
supply will increase by 54 percent to 22.7 billion cubic meters
this year, the newspaper said, citing Wang.  PetroChina Co. , the largest oil and gas company, plans to
buy 610 million cubic meters of LNG to help meet demand, China
News Service reported Oct. 14, citing Hou Chuangye, vice
director of the gas and pipeline unit of the company.  -- Feiwen Rong  and  Baizhen Chua . Editors: Richard Dobson, Jake
Lloyd-Smith.  To contact the Bloomberg News staffs on this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  