-- Colombia Peso Weakens to 10-Week Low as Santos Signals Currency Measures
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-10-25T19:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/colombian-peso-little-changed-near-7-week-low-awaiting-currency-measures.html
Colombia’s peso fell to a 10-week
low after President  Juan Manuel Santos  said the South American
country will take measures this week to ease the currency’s
rally.  Colombia has been studying measures “carefully” given the
“complicated” situation, Santos said Oct. 23, according to
comments posted on the  presidential website . His words come
after Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers ended
talks in South Korea, pledging to avoid weakening their
currencies to boost exports and to let markets increasingly set
foreign-exchange values.  The peso fell to as low as 1,835.6 per U.S. dollar today,
its weakest level since Aug. 13. The currency declined 0.1
percent to 1,829.90 per dollar at 3:20 p.m. New York time, from
1,828.65 on Oct. 22. The peso has jumped 11.7 percent this year,
the best performance among six major Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “The market has been pricing in possible measures that
will likely come from the central bank’s” monetary policy
meeting on Oct. 29, said  Munir Jalil , chief economist at
Citigroup Inc.’s Colombia unit.  Government and central bank officials are seeking to slow
the peso’s rally, which Colombia’s business associations said in
a letter this month threatens jobs and “jeopardizes the
Colombian economy’s positive outlook.”  Capital Controls  The central bank said Sept. 15 it will buy a minimum of $20
million daily for at least four months. While the bank has
maintained that average through auctions, central bank chief
 Jose Dario Uribe  has said Banco de la Republica can buy “much
more” or extend purchases beyond the scheduled four months.  Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said earlier this
month that the government will keep $1.4 billion equivalent to
the August and December dividend payments from state oil company
Ecopetrol SA overseas.  Banco de la Republica may seek to limit borrowing from
abroad, Jalil predicted.  Speculation Colombia will impose capital controls increased
after Brazil last week raised taxes on foreign inflows for the
second time this month to stem the real’s appreciation.  Uribe said in an Oct. 19 presentation that he sees no need
to implement capital controls as the costs outweigh the
benefits. Should that scenario change the government may
reconsider capital controls, Uribe said.  “If you look at the levels the peso is trading at now, you
might think there is no need for further measures,” said Jalil.
Still “the price is based on expectations of the new measures
that will be announced, and as soon as they are, we’ll see a
move depending on how the market views the changes.”  The peso has dropped 2.2 percent since Banco de la
Republica began its daily dollar purchases last month.  The Colombian currency will likely trade between 1,830 and
1,840 this week, with a possible “correction” around 1,825,
while investors await the currency announcements, according to
Andres Munoz, head currency trader at Corporacion Financiera
Colombiana SA in Bogota.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  