-- CommScope in Talks With Carlyle for $3 Billion Buyout
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-25T20:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/commscope-is-in-talks-with-carlyle-group-about-takeover-at-31-5-a-share.html
CommScope Inc.  said Carlyle Group,
the Washington-based leveraged buyout firm, is in talks to buy
the company in a deal that would value the telecommunications
equipment maker at about $3 billion.  CommScope soared 30 percent in New York trading after
saying Carlyle may buy all its outstanding shares for $31.50
apiece in cash. That’s about 36 percent more than the Oct. 22
 closing price  for the Hickory, North Carolina-based company,
whose cable and wiring are used by phone- and Internet-service
providers.  “The demand for fiber-optic cable is going to go through
the roof in the next three to five years,” said  Will Draper , a
telecommunications analyst at Execution Noble in London.  Telecommunications-equipment suppliers are benefiting as
phone companies roll out fiber-optic networks that will
eventually replace many copper lines. In Europe,  France Telecom
SA  has said it will spend about 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion)
on its domestic fiber optic network by 2015, while in Australia
the governing Labor Party is building an A$43 billion ($43
billion) fiber network.  CommScope  jumped  $7.04 to $30.16 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at 4 p.m. The shares have gained 14 percent
this year.  The interest from Carlyle comes as private-equity firms
resume takeovers after the credit crisis stymied deal-making for
two years. The firms have led $133 billion of transactions this
year, more than double the amount in the same period of 2009,
according to data compiled Bloomberg.  ‘Cheapest’  CommScope, which sells its products throughout the world,
said no agreement has been reached and there can be no assurance
that a deal will result from the talks.  Emma Thorpe , a Carlyle
spokeswoman in London, declined to comment.  Lee Ainslie , managing partner at Maverick Capital
Management LLC, which counts CommScope among its “important
holdings,” said this month that technology stocks are the
cheapest in 20 years.  There have been 14 deals for telecommunications equipment
companies over $1 billion in the past five years worldwide,
according to Bloomberg data. The average premium was 21 percent,
and the average deal size disclosed was $4.33 billion.  CommScope bought Andrew Corp. for $2.65 billion less than
three years ago to add antenna technology to its product line.
Still, the company’s  sales  dropped 25 percent last year as
orders in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the U.S. declined.  Juniper, ADC  The company’s largest customers are  Anixter International
Inc. , a company that distributes communications and cable wiring
systems, and  Alcatel-Lucent SA , France’s largest
telecommunications-equipment maker, according to regulatory
filings. The two made up about 14 percent of net accounts
receivable each as of June.  Juniper Networks Inc., with a market capitalization of
$16.6 billion, is the company  closest  in size to CommScope by
revenue received from networking equipment, according to
Bloomberg data.  ADC Telecommunications Inc. , a $1.23 billion
company, is the second closest.  CommScope predicted in July that third-quarter sales will
rise to $815 million to $865 million, signaling a gain of at
least 8.6 percent from a year earlier.  Phone operators are looking to boost sales by upgrading
their networks to allow faster data speeds.  Verizon
Communications Inc. , the second-largest U.S. phone company, has
benefited this year from its FiOS fiber-optic network even as
sales decline for its fixed-line business overall. The company
added 226,000 Web and 204,000 video subscribers to the service
last quarter.  Allen & Co. is serving as financial adviser to CommScope
and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP is acting as legal adviser, the
company said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 