-- Congo to Respect Arbitration Decision on First Quantum Mine, Minister Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-10-25T21:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/congo-government-extends-mining-ban-in-three-eastern-provinces-amid-unrest.html
Democratic Republic of Congo will
respect the results of an international arbitration case filed
by  First Quantum Minerals Ltd.  over a canceled $750 million
mining project, Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said.  The Vancouver-based mining company lodged the complaint at
the International Court of Arbitration in Paris after Congo shut
down its Kolwezi copper and cobalt project last year. Eurasian
Natural Resources Corp. bought the rights to the concession in
August.  Kabwelulu said today he was speaking on behalf of the
government when he promised the country would respect the ICA’s
decision. He made the comments before a group of miners,
government officials and investors at an infrastructure
conference in Kinshasa, the capital.  The cancellation of the Kolwezi deal, in which the World
Bank’s International Finance Corp. was a minority shareholder,
has hampered investment in mineral-rich Congo. On Oct. 14,
Barclays Capital called the African country a “maximum risk”
investment in copper and other base metals partly because of the
contract dispute. Congo ranked second-to-last out of 183
countries in the World Bank’s 2010 Doing Business guide in terms
of ease of doing business.  Mining is expected to make up half the country’s gross
domestic product by 2015, Kabwelulu said today.  Rising Production  Congo produced 350,000 metric tons of copper and 67,000
tons of cobalt through September of this year, he said, up from
309,610 tons of copper and 56,103 tons of cobalt for all of last
year.  Congo has 4 percent of the world’s copper and nearly a
third of its cobalt, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.
The country is recovering from more than 40 years of
dictatorship and war and its budget is heavily reliant on mining
revenue.  Kabwelulu also announced plans for a fund that will assure
mining revenue will be saved for “future generations.” Mining
companies will likely be required to contribute to the fund, the
minister said without giving details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 