-- Copper Rises to 27-Month High as Dollar Slides on Fed Policy Speculation
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-10-25T17:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/copper-rises-to-27-month-high-as-dollar-slides-on-fed-policy-speculation.html
Copper rose to the highest price in
27 months as a weakening dollar boosted demand for raw materials
as an alternative investment.  The dollar fell as much as 1 percent against a basket of
six major currencies after Group of 20 leaders pledged to avoid
“competitive devaluation” of currencies, stoking speculation
that the Federal Reserve may buy more debt. Copper has gained 15
percent this year. The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19
commodities rose as much as 1.4 percent, near a two-year high.  “Copper and the rest of the metals are all predictably
higher off the back of a dollar further weakened by the G-20
statements,” said  Alex Heath , the head of industrial-metals
trading at Royal Bank of Canada Europe Ltd. in London.  Copper futures for December delivery rose 6.6 cents, or 1.7
percent, to settle at $3.863 a pound at 1:19 p.m. on the Comex
in New York, after touching $3.8895, the highest level since
July 2008.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose $184, or 2.2 percent, to $8,518 a metric ton ($3.86
a pound). All of the six main metals traded on the LME gained.  Policy makers at the Fed, which bought $1.7 trillion of
securities in the first round of so-called quantitative easing,
will meet on Nov. 2-Nov. 3.  Home Sales  Prices also rallied after a report showed sales of existing
homes in the U.S., the world’s biggest copper consumer after
China, rose more than forecast in September. Purchases increased
10 percent to a 4.53 million annual rate, the National
Association of Realtors said. Construction accounts for a
quarter of copper demand, according to the Copper Development
Association.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said it will introduce an exchange-
traded fund backed by copper. The ETF will hold grade A copper
and not trade underlying futures, JPMorgan Chase said in a
filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission dated Oct.
22.  “Funds are likely to move to copper from aluminum and some
other metals in anticipation of this new ETF,” analysts at
Fairfax IS said today in a report.  Hedge funds and other large speculators raised bullish bets
on copper futures to the highest level since January, according
to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data. Speculative
long positions outnumbered short positions by 26,150 contracts
on the Comex in the week ended Oct. 19, the CFTC said Oct. 22.
Net-long positions rose by 2,082 contracts, or almost 9 percent,
from a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 