-- Copper Concentrate Imports by China Climb to Record as Fees, Output Gain
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-10-25T09:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/copper-concentrate-imports-by-china-climb-to-record-as-fees-output-gain.html
China’s imports of copper
concentrate, the world’s second-largest after Japan, climbed to
a record in September as smelters ramped up production in
response to rising treatment charges.  Inbound shipments  jumped to 683,523 metric tons last month,
up 22 percent from a year earlier, the Beijing-based customs
office said today. That’s a record, according to Fu Bin, an
analyst at Jinrui Futures Co., a unit of Jiangxi Copper Co.,
China’s biggest producer.  “The utilization rate has picked up since the end of
summer,” said Zhu Lin, an analyst at Shanghai Metals Market.  Copper output in China increased in September for the first
time in three months to 405,000 tons, up 3.3 percent from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on Oct. 21.
Output was 397,000 tons in August. China is the top user of the
metal used in construction and household appliances.  “A part of the concentrate imports are probably long-term
orders, while rising treatment charges have also improved the
profit margins of smelters and encouraged them to buy more,”
said Liu Biyuan, an analyst at GF Futures Co.  Spot fees paid to smelters in China by mining companies for
turning ore into refined metal have nearly tripled to as much as
$80 a ton for smelting and 8 cents a pound for refining, from
about $20 to $30 a ton a month ago and nearly zero in June amid
an ore shortage, Shenzhen Rongtuo Trading Co.’s Pang Ying said
Oct. 13.  Treatment Fees  Smelters in China were able to charge more for processing
ore from miners as demand for the refined metal dropped
following a rally in prices, and supply of the scrap metal
improved, according to Fang Junfeng, an analyst at China
International Futures (Shanghai) Co.  Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange rose 23 percent in the three months to September as a
weaker dollar prompted investors to seek alternative
investments. The metal rose as much as 2.6 percent to $8,549 a
ton today, the highest price since July 2008.  Treatment fees in China also rose as counterparts in Japan
and India reduced output, said Fang. Sterlite Industries (India)
Ltd., India’s largest producer, has been granted an extension to
run its sole 400,000-ton smelter until mid-December pending an
environmental investigation.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  