-- Corn, Soy Rally Pressures BHP to Raise Potash Bid
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n ,   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-10-26T20:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/corn-soy-rally-pressures-bhp-to-raise-40-billion-offer-for-potash-corp-.html
The biggest four-month jump in corn
prices in 2 1/2 years is signaling to investors  BHP Billiton
Ltd . will raise its $40 billion bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest fertilizer producer.  Corn has climbed 35 percent and soybeans 19 percent in
Chicago since Aug. 17, when Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash
Corp. rejected BHP’s bid as too low and said it’s seeking other
offers. Higher grain prices can prompt farmers to use more
fertilizer to boost crop yields, pushing up the value of Potash
Corp., which has 20 percent of global capacity in its namesake
product.  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, has also gained
$5.8 billion by scrapping a deal with Rio Tinto Group this month
after opposition from regulators, giving it cash to increase its
bid, according to National Australia Bank Group Ltd.  “It’s a given that BHP will raise its offer,” said Monem Salam, who helps manage the $1.7 billion Amana Growth Fund,
including shares of Potash Corp., at Saturna Capital Corp.
“Potash Corp. still has to make the case to BHP that the price
is too low, but the wind is at their back with grain prices
going up.”  Potash Corp. raised the list price of granular-grade potash
in the U.S. Midwest to $515 a short ton, up 17 percent from $440
a ton on Sept. 7, Edwin Chee, a Vancouver-based analyst at BMO
Capital Markets, said yesterday in a note to clients.    Bill Johnson , spokesman for Potash Corp., declined to
comment on the pricing of the company’s potash.  Corn’s Rebound  Potash Corp. rose $1.85, or 1.3 percent, to $145.55 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, 12 percent
higher than BHP’s bid of $130 a share. BHP may end up paying
about $150 a share, Paul Cliff, a London-based analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc., wrote in an Oct. 21 report.  BHP declined 56 pence, or 2.5 percent, to close at 2,196.5
pence in London trading.  Corn has rebounded 70 percent from its June 7 closing low.
Since June, wheat has as much as doubled as drought in Russia
and  Kazakhstan , along with flooding in Canada, ruined crops.  Corn, wheat and soybeans jumped the most allowed by the
Chicago Board of Trade on Oct. 8 after the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  predicted less supply. On Oct. 15, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. boosted its 12-month forecast for corn to $6.25 a
bushel from $5. It closed in  Chicago  yesterday at $5.6875.  “Prices have rallied substantially for some of these soft
commodities so it would justify a higher offer for Potash,”
said Robbert van Batenburg, head of equities research at Louis
Capital Markets LP in New York.  Convincing Canada  “BHP will have to justify it, the onus is on them,” he
said. “The longer they wait, the more commodity prices
increase, the more they can justify it.”  BHP also has to convince Canada’s Industry Minister Tony Clement to approve the deal that’s opposed by Saskatchewan
Premier Brad Wall, who has said a takeover would cut provincial
revenue, lead to fewer jobs and forfeit Canadian control of an
important national resource.  Canada  has until Nov. 3 to complete
its review of the bid.  Clement said Oct. 22 he won’t be swayed by Saskatchewan’s
call for the federal government to block the bid, adding he has
yet to make a decision.  Potash Corp.’s assets are a “natural fit” with BHP’s
existing holdings in Saskatchewan, which include the Jansen
potash project, BHP has said. Jansen may cost $10 billion to
develop, according to Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty.  Full Price?  BHP Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers , 48, has said
he will walk away from the Potash bid, the biggest acquisition
deal this year, if it’s not in the best interest of
shareholders. Amanda Buckley, BHP’s Melbourne-based spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  “I think $130 a share is a full price for the business,”
Neil Boyd-Clark, an executive director at Arnhem Investment
Management Pty, which manages A$5 billion ($4.93 billion) in
funds including BHP, said by telephone. “Short-term commodity
price moves should not necessarily impact your thinking about
the value of the business in the long term.”  Potash consumption slumped last year after crop prices
plunged, with wheat traded in Chicago, a global benchmark,
falling to $4.255 a bushel in June from a record $13.495 in
February 2008.  Demand for potash, mined from underground mineral salt
deposits left by evaporated seas, will rebound to 50 million
metric tons this year from less than 30 million tons in 2009,
Potash Corp. Chief Executive Officer Bill Doyle, 60, said Aug.
17. He forecasts demand at 55 million tons in 2011.  Saskatchewan potash prices rallied to $374 a ton in the
second quarter, according to Salman Partners.  “Higher fertilizer and grain prices mean the premium that
BHP is offering isn’t going to be enough,” said Sadiq Adatia,
who oversees about C$12 billion of assets as chief investment
officer at Russell Investments Canada. “BHP will have to come
back and put more on the table.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan in  Melbourne  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs@bloomberg.net . 