-- Corn, Soybeans Rally as Dollar Decline Boosts Demand; Rice, Wheat Advance
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2010-10-25T13:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/corn-soybeans-rally-as-dollar-decline-boosts-demand-rice-wheat-advance.html
Corn, soybeans and wheat rose in
Chicago on speculation that the dollar’s drop may bolster demand
for U.S. crops. Rice touched the highest price since January.  Corn for December delivery added 1.9 percent to $5.7075 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:14 p.m. Paris time.
January-delivery soybeans climbed 1.5 percent to $12.295 a
bushel. The most-active contract touched $12.35 on Oct. 21, the
highest level since June 5, 2009. The grain and the oilseed both
advanced for the first day in three.  The dollar’s “weakness makes U.S. grains cheaper on the
world market and, all other things being equal, shall bring
buyers to the CBOT,” economist  Dennis Gartman  wrote in his
daily newsletter.  The dollar fell for a second day against the euro after a
Group of 20 pledge to avoid “competitive devaluation” damped
speculation governments around the world will buy the U.S.
currency to weaken their monies. A slumping dollar makes crops
from the U.S. cheaper in terms of other monies and stokes demand
for raw materials as an alternative investment.  “The dollar’s weakness has boosted overall commodities,
including Chicago grains and oilseeds,”  Toshimitsu Kawanabe , an
analyst at Tokyo-based commodity broker Central Shoji Co., said
today. Corn and soybeans also benefited from the outlook for
demand from China, he said.  Survey of Traders  Corn and soybeans may rise this week on speculation the
U.S. Department of Agriculture will cut forecasts for this
year’s crops. Seventeen of 33 traders and analysts surveyed from
Chicago to Tokyo on Oct. 22 said corn will climb, and 18 of 34
respondents said soybeans will advance.  Soybean imports by China may reach 60 million metric tons
in the 2010-2011 marketing year on strong crushing margins, the
China National Grain & Oils Information Center said, citing
global grain-trading companies it didn’t identify. That’s more
than the 55 million tons  estimated  by the USDA on Oct. 8.  Chinese soybean crushers have accelerated buying of South
American new-crop soybeans, the center said in a report on its
website today. Crushers have ordered 5 million tons of the
oilseed from South America to date, 25 percent more than a year
ago, it said.  Wheat for December delivery climbed 1.2 percent to $6.79 a
bushel after falling 4.8 percent last week, the second straight
weekly slide. Prices have surged 41 percent since the end of
June after drought destroyed Russian crops.  Export Ban  The grain rallied from a two-week low on Oct. 22 after
Russia lengthened its ban on cereal exports to preserve domestic
supply. Russia, the world’s third-largest wheat producer last
year, extended the ban until July 1, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said Oct. 22. The country said in August it would halt
exports until the end of this year.  Milling wheat for January delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris rose 0.6 percent to 209 euros ($293.27) a ton.  Global wheat  stockpiles  will total 174.66 million tons at
the end of the 2010-2011 marketing year, down 11 percent from
last year, the USDA said Oct. 8.  Rough rice for January delivery advanced 2.5 percent to
$14.87 per 100 pounds in Chicago after reaching $14.92, the
highest level since Jan. 11. The most-active contract climbed
for a 10th day.  Thailand’s main rice harvest may drop as much as 20 percent
to less than 20 million tons after the worst floods in four
years, Banjong Tungjitwattanakun, vice president of the Thai
Rice Mills Association, said Oct. 20. The main crop, harvested
from October to April, typically accounts for 75 percent of
annual output.  “The world’s rice crop has been very materially reduced
due to weather problems,” Gartman said. “Rice prices have
risen very sharply of late, and we do not wish to buy this
strength, but we must be on our guard to buy any reasonable
corrections that come our way” in coming weeks, he said.  Japan is seeking up to 80,000 tons of foreign rice in a
tender on Oct. 29, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at   jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 