-- Cotton Jumps 4.2% to Record as China Cold Spell Threatens Crops
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-10-25T19:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/cotton-futures-on-ice-futures-u-s-advance-to-record-121-65-cents-a-pound.html
Cotton futures extended a rally to
record as a cold front threatened to damage the crop in China,
the world’s biggest user.  A cold spell that started yesterday will last until
tomorrow and may hurt plants, the China Meteorological Center
said. Prices jumped the most allowed by ICE Futures U.S. for the
second straight session. Last week, hail pounded fields in
Texas, the top grower in the U.S., the largest exporter.  “The market is reacting to the news from China and what
has happened in Texas,” said  John Flanagan , the president of
Flanagan Trading Corp. in Fuquay Varina, North Carolina. “Even
at these prices, we are witnessing strong demand.”  Cotton futures for December delivery rose by the maximum of
5 cents, or 4.2 percent, to settle at $1.2471 a pound in New
York, the highest level since the fiber started trading 140
years ago. This year, the price has soared 65 percent, the
biggest gain among 19 raw materials in the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index.  ICE halted options trading today after futures jumped, and
the exchange boosted the limit on futures to 6 cents effective
tomorrow.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture forecasts a 4.3 percent
drop in global stockpiles in the year ending July 31. Flanagan
said he expects prices to rise to $1.30.  “Cold weather in China’s cotton crop-growing area has
stoked concern over production damage,” pushing prices in
Zhengzhou to all-time highs, said  Toshimitsu Kawanabe , an
analyst at Tokyo-based commodity broker Central Shoji Co.  U.S. cotton stockpiles will drop 8.5 percent in the year
that began Aug. 1 from a year earlier, the USDA forecast on Oct.
8.  “Concern over damage to the U.S. crop came amid increasing
demand prospects, especially from China, where the market sees a
drop in output,” said  Han Sung Min , a grain-futures broker at
Korea Exchange Bank Futures Co. in Seoul.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 