-- Credit Agricole Sued in U.S. Over $70 Million of CDOs
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-25T14:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/credit-agricole-sued-for-fraud-in-u-s-by-investors-over-cdos.html
Credit Agricole SA , France’s third-
largest bank, was sued for fraud in New York by investors
alleging the lender tricked them into buying $70.5 million worth
of collateralized debt obligations that were designed to fail.  Loreley Financing claimed in the lawsuit filed Oct. 22 in
New York State Supreme Court that Credit Agricole’s Calyon unit
allowed a hedge fund to pick low-quality assets for three CDOs
the fund could then bet against.  “Calyon defrauded plaintiffs during both the construction
and the dismantling of its business strategy,” the investors
said in the lawsuit. Calyon let the hedge fund “select weak and
poor quality collateral for at least two of the CDOs in which
plaintiffs invested.”  The investors were advised by German lender  IKB Deutsche
Industriebank AG , which was sued by Credit Agricole in London in
July 2009 over an agreement that forced the Paris-based bank to
buy structured securities from an IKB investment vehicle during
the credit crisis. IKB almost collapsed before being bailed out
in 2007.  “IKB communicated to Calyon that the Loreley companies had
a low appetite for credit risk and no appetite for principal
loss,” according to the lawsuit.  The Loreley suit “is clearly related to our U.K. $1.675
billion high court 2009 lawsuit against IKB for fraud,” Credit
Agricole said in an e-mailed statement. “We are confident this
counter-action by IKB is without merit.”  CDOs are pools of assets such as mortgage bonds packaged
into new securities. Interest payments on the underlying bonds
or loans are used to pay investors.  The lawsuit was previously reported in the Financial Times.  The case is 650673/2010, Loreley Financing v. Credit
Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, Supreme Court of the
State of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 