-- Dallas Cowboys Owner Jerry Jones Says Focus Is on Avoiding NFL Lockout
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   M a t t   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-25T22:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/dallas-cowboys-owner-jerry-jones-says-focus-is-on-avoiding-nfl-lockout.html
National Football League owners are
determined that play next season won’t be interrupted by a labor
dispute,  Jerry Jones  said.  “Owners are committed to not having any work stoppage,”
the Dallas Cowboys owner said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television this afternoon.  DeMaurice Smith , executive director of the NFL Players
Association, said last month he expects owners to lock players
out when the collective bargaining agreement expires following
this season. Players and owners can’t agree on issues including
revenue sharing, rookie pay and the length of the season.  Jones also said he rejected the opportunity to pare about
$400 million from the $1.2 billion cost of the new Cowboys
Stadium, which opened last season, when the recession struck.
Instead, he decided to expand the project.  “The way we’re going to get out of the troubled times that
we’re in is to sell our way out,” Jones said. “This stadium
represents that.”  Sales of one-off seat licenses that give the right to buy a
season ticket encouraged Jones not to scrimp on the building
costs for the stadium, which will host the Super Bowl on Feb. 7.  “It’s the best that anyone has ever done in seat
licenses,” Jones said. “When I saw those going good, even
though we were in the most troubled times we’d ever had in most
peoples’ lifetimes, that was going good, then I kept the
faith.”  The Cowboys host the National Football Conference East-
leading New York Giants tonight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Miller  in New York at 
 mtmiller@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 