-- Dementia Risk Rises in Smokers, Showing Another Reason to Quit, Study Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-10-25T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/dementia-risk-gives-smokers-another-reason-to-quit-study-says.html
Alzheimer’s disease and other forms
of  dementia  are more likely to strike people who smoked heavily
in their 50s and 60s than to afflict nonsmokers, a study found.  Among more than 21,000 people followed for 23 years, 25
percent were diagnosed with dementia at an average age of 81,
the research found. Those who puffed two or more packs of
cigarettes a day had more than twice the risk of dementia
compared with nonsmokers, said authors from Finland and the U.S.  The study, published today in the  Archives of Internal
Medicine , is the first to look at the consequences of heavy
smoking during midlife on dementia. About 46 million Americans
ages 18 or older are cigarette smokers, according to the U.S.
 Centers  for Disease Control and Prevention, based in Atlanta.  “We can definitively say from this study that heavy
smoking increases your risk of dementia in late life,” said
 Rachel Whitmer , an author of the study and a scientist with the
Kaiser Permanente Division of Research, in Oakland, California,
in a telephone interview on Oct. 22. “Smoking has negative
consequences on the whole body. The brain is not immune.”  Whitmer said  smoking  causes higher levels of inflammation
in the body and affects how blood clots. Smokers are also more
likely to have strokes, high blood pressure and cerebrovascular
disease -- a malady of the blood vessels, particularly the
arteries that supply the brain -- which are all risk factors for
dementia, she said.  Risk Findings  The researchers found that those who smoked one to two
packs a day had a 44 percent higher risk of dementia later in
life compared with nonsmokers, and those who smoked a half pack
to one pack daily had a 37 percent higher risk. People who had
already quit smoking at the start of the trial, or who smoked
less than a half a pack a day, faced a hazard similar to that of
nonsmokers, the authors said.  In the U.S., smoking is responsible for about one in five
deaths, the  American Cancer Society  said on its website. That
makes the habit the nation’s biggest cause of preventable death.
Aside from cancer, smoking is a cause of heart attacks, strokes,
chronic bronchitis and stomach ulcers, the Atlanta-based cancer
group said.  The study researchers analyzed data on 21,123 health-plan
members of Kaiser Permanente who participated in a survey,
conducted from 1978 to 1985, that asked questions about smoking.
The scientists looked at diagnoses of dementia, Alzheimer’s
disease and  vascular dementia  made by doctors from 1994 to 2008.  Dementia Diagnoses  In the study, 5,367 people, or 25 percent, were diagnosed
with dementia. Of those, 63 smoked two or more packs a day,
while 283 smoked between one pack and two and 435 had between a
half and one pack daily.  The researchers also found that the heaviest smokers had a
157 percent increased risk of developing  Alzheimer’s disease  and
a 172 percent higher risk of developing vascular dementia than
nonsmokers.  The findings “confirm what people had suspected for a
while now,” said  William Thies , chief medical and scientific
officer of the Chicago-based Alzheimer’s Association, in a
telephone interview on Oct. 22. “If, for people who are
contemplating stopping, this is another force that moves them in
the direction of smoking cessation, then that is a good thing.”  David Sutton, a spokesman, for Richmond, Virginia-based
 Altria Group Inc. , the largest U.S. tobacco company, said in an
e-mail on Oct. 22 that Altria “agrees with the overwhelming
medical and scientific consensus that cigarette smoking is
addictive and causes serious diseases in smokers.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  