-- Deutsche Bank's Postbank Deal May Reduce Profitability
-- B y   J a n n   B e t t i n g a   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-10-26T11:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/deutsche-bank-s-biggest-deal-since-bankers-trust-may-drag-on-profitability.html
Deutsche Bank AG ’s plan to build a
German consumer-banking powerhouse with the $8.9 billion
purchase of Deutsche Postbank AG, its biggest takeover in a
decade, may end up weighing on profitability.  While the takeover will more than double Deutsche Bank’s
German retail clients and add about 1,100 branches, the
Frankfurt-based company may struggle to boost  earnings  in a
market dominated by savings banks and cooperative lenders.  “German retail banking isn’t very lucrative,” said  Daniel Hupfer , who helps manage about $45 billion at M.M. Warburg in
Hamburg, including shares of Deutsche Bank. “You can add size,
but it’s a market where you can’t make a lot of money because
there are so many competitors.”  Germany has almost 2,000 credit institutions, five times as
many as the U.K. and almost three times as many as France,
figures from the European Central Bank show. The splintered
market has typically held German banks “to low risk-adjusted
returns,” Moody’s Investors Service said Oct. 14, reiterating a
negative outlook on the industry. Deutsche Bank will report a
third-quarter loss tomorrow as it writes down its existing stake
in Postbank by about 2.3 billion euros ($3.2 billion), the
company said Sept. 21.  Deutsche Bank  raised  10.2 billion euros this month to
finance its bid for a controlling stake in Postbank and to meet
stricter capital rules. Germany’s biggest bank has  fallen  10
percent since Sept. 9, when Bloomberg News first reported it was
considering a share sale. The stock dropped 2.2 percent to 40.95
euros as of 1:48 p.m. in Frankfurt trading today.  Consumer Expansion  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  is building up his
consumer-banking and asset-management operations to
counterbalance the investment bank, where earnings are more
vulnerable to financial market swings. Since 2006, Deutsche Bank
 acquired  Berliner Bank AG, Nuremberg-based Norisbank AG and
private wealth manager Sal. Oppenheim Group, as well as a 30
percent stake in Bonn-based Postbank.  Postbank’s pretax return on equity, a measure of
profitability, was 8.3 percent in the first half of 2010,
lagging behind the 22 percent return at Deutsche Bank as a
whole, and the investment bank’s ROE of 42 percent, company
reports show. Deutsche Bank’s profitability exceeded Postbank’s
every year since 2004, with the exception of 2008, when both
lost money.  ‘Intense Competition’  “This takeover isn’t a particularly good idea,” said  Dirk Becker , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Frankfurt, who
recommends selling Deutsche Bank and Postbank shares.
“Postbank’s main product is a free checking account. What’s the
benefit for Deutsche Bank to have fee-free accounts?”  Germany’s 431 savings banks held 48 percent of all savings
deposits in 2009, according to the nation’s savings banks
association. They’re followed by the 1,156 cooperative lenders,
with 29 percent of deposits and large commercial banks, such as
 Postbank , Deutsche Bank and  Commerzbank AG , with 13 percent.  The country’s lenders are struggling with “fragmentation,
overcapacities and intense competition,” Moody’s said.  
Commerzbank , which acquired unprofitable Dresdner Bank for about
5 billion euros in January 2009, remains far from its earnings
goal for the consumer-banking unit. The division posted an
operating profit of 49 million euros in the first half of this
year, compared with its 2012 target of about 1 billion euros.  The Frankfurt-based lender, which is still integrating
Dresdner’s operations, has blamed “declining deposit margins”
and customers’ “dwindling securities activity.”  Better Than ‘Perceived’  Deutsche Bank may report a third-quarter loss of 1.47
billion euros, according to an estimate of 12 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News. The consumer unit, led by  Rainer Neske , 46,
probably had pretax profit of 213 million euros, after 423
million euros in the first half, analysts said.  Earnings at the investment bank, led by  Anshu Jain , 47, may
amount to 938 million euros before tax, following profit of 3.37
billion euros in the first half, the survey showed.  Consumer banking in Germany is “much better than normally
perceived in the world,” Ackermann said at a conference last
month. The country has a “healthy macro-environment, with a
very large retail market with lower risk,” he said. Buying
Postbank “allows for a similar success story as seen in
investment banking during the last 10 years, coming from a very
low level and building up to a top-size position,” he said.  Spokesman  Michael Lermer  reiterated that Deutsche Bank and
Postbank together would be the retail market leader in Germany
among commercial banks, and among the leaders in Europe.  Profit Target  Deutsche Bank, which is offering 25 euros a share in cash
to Postbank investors, initially agreed to buy a stake in
September 2008 from  Deutsche Post AG , and then renegotiated the
transaction in January 2009 after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. roiled markets. Deutsche Bank also holds
a mandatory exchangeable bond for a 27.4 percent stake and an
option to buy Deutsche Post’s remaining 12.1 percent holding.  Deutsche Bank, which said it’s making the bid for Postbank
now to minimize the price, expects the full takeover to cost
about 6.4 billion euros if all outstanding shareholders accept
the 25 euro bid. It’s the biggest purchase since the $9 billion
acquisition of New York-based Bankers Trust Corp. in 1999.  Ackermann, 62, set a target to boost pretax profit at the
retail business, including Postbank, to 3 billion euros by 2015-
2016, from 458 million euros last year. Germany’s savings banks,
which have more than six times as many branches as Deutsche Bank
and Postbank together, had a combined pretax profit of 4.9
billion euros last year.  In Germany, 55 percent of customers cite price as a reason
for switching lenders, compared with 16 percent in the U.K. and
France, a study by consulting firm Ernst & Young LLP showed.  “There’s harsh competition in the retail-banking market
that’s hurting margins,” said  Olaf Kayser , an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Mainz, Germany. “There is not
much more that can be done in terms of external growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 