-- Diesel, Heating Oil Stockpiles Tumble in Survey on Exports: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-10-26T20:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/distillate-stocks-drop-in-survey-on-winter-demand-exports-energy-markets.html
U.S.  supplies  of distillate fuel, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, probably dropped
for a fifth week as distributors took deliveries before winter
and exports to Europe increased, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Stockpiles fell 1.5 million barrels, or 0.9 percent, in the
seven days ended Oct. 22 from 170.1 million a week earlier,
according to the median of 16 analyst  estimates  before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. That would leave inventories at the
lowest level since the week ended July 23. All of the
respondents forecast a decline.  The drop in supplies is helping to push up heating oil
prices, which have doubled since touching a three-year low of
$1.1252 a gallon on March 11, 2009, as consumption rebounded.
 Distillate demand , as measured by the amount supplied to
wholesalers and distributors, climbed 6.8 percent to 3.95
million barrels a day in the week ended Oct. 15, the highest
level since May, as a strike crimped French fuel production.  “You’ve got both the normal seasonal factors and more
cargoes going overseas,” said  Michael Fitzpatrick , a broker
with MF Global in New York, who forecast a 1.1 million-barrel
drop. “The preparation for winter is probably the more
important of the two factors.”  Heating oil for November delivery declined 0.5 cent to
settle at $2.25 a gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Heating-Oil Cost  U.S. homeowners who use heating oil will spend an average
$2,124 this winter, up 11 percent from $1,906 a year earlier,
according to the Energy Department’s monthly Short-Term Energy
Outlook, released on Oct. 13. The cost per gallon will average
$3.06 this heating season, up 23 cents from the prior year.  Heating oil warms 7 percent of homes nationwide and 30
percent of households in the  Northeast . That region is
responsible for 80 percent of the nation’s residential heating-
oil consumption.  About one quarter of France’s 12,300 filling stations had
no gasoline yesterday. Workers at ports, refineries and fuel
suppliers walked off the job to protest President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s plan to increase the retirement age to 62 from 60.  Employees at three French oil refineries voted to return to
work yesterday. France’s eight remaining active refineries are
either on strike or shut because of a lack of crude oil. A 12th
is mothballed.  Diesel, which powers 77 percent of cars sold in France, is
the fuel with the tightest supply,  Alexandre de Benoist , head of
the Independent Fuel Importers Union, or UIP, said on Oct. 18.  “There should be good export demand for U.S. distillate
supplies because of what’s happening in France,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition Energy, a
Stamford, Connecticut-based procurement adviser.  Surging Exports  U.S.  distillate fuel exports  climbed to a record annual
rate of 587,000 barrels a day in 2009, according to the Energy
Department. That was more than five-times the level of five
years earlier. The Netherlands, Chile and Mexico were the
 biggest customers  of U.S. distillate fuel last year. Exports
began to mushroom in 2008 when China bolstered supplies before
the Beijing Olympics.  Eight tankers were booked so far this month to ship fuel
cargoes from the U.S. Gulf of Mexico coast to Northwestern
Europe, according to  Clarkson Research Services Ltd.,  a unit of
the world’s biggest shipbroker. They are carrying 348,000
barrels of fuel. Typically fuel tankers take diesel and heating
oil to Europe from the U.S. and return with gasoline.  Distillate Inventories  “The U.S. is becoming an increasingly important source for
distillate supplies,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of
research at PFGBest in Chicago, who projected that stockpiles
fell 3 million barrels. “There are signs that exports to Europe
are picking up.”  Distillate fuel  inventories  in the week ended Aug. 20 were
the highest since 1983.  Refineries  operated  at 81.9 percent of capacity in the week
ended Oct. 8, the lowest level since March, the Energy
Department reported. Companies idle units for maintenance in
autumn, when gasoline consumption declines and winter heating-
oil demand has yet to gain.  “We still have plentiful supplies of distillate fuel,”
Flynn said. “Since refineries are in the midst of maintenance
our exports will come out of storage.”  Refineries operated  at 82.8 percent of capacity last week,
up 0.3 percentage point from the previous week, according to the
Bloomberg survey.  Oil Supplies  Crude-oil  inventories  rose 1 million barrels, or 0.3
percent, from 361.2 million a week earlier, the survey showed. A
gain of that size would leave stockpiles at the highest level
since June 25. Fifteen respondents gave crude oil estimates.
Twelve analysts forecast an increase and three predicted a drop.  “Crude oil is a seasonal story,” Armstrong said.
“Refineries are still performing maintenance and demand has yet
to pick up.”  Gasoline stockpiles  climbed by 625,000 barrels, or 0.3
percent, from 219.3 million, the survey showed. It would be the
second straight weekly advance. Ten of the respondents projected
an expansion, five a decline and one said there was no change.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 