-- Yen Drops on Concern Japan May Weaken Currency; Pound Jumps
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-10-26T12:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/dollar-trades-near-15-year-low-versus-yen-on-speculation-fed-to-ease-more.html
The yen slid from near its strongest
level in 15 years against the dollar amid concern Japanese
authorities may renew action to weaken the currency.  The yen also depreciated against the euro as Japan’s Chief
Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said he met today with a
senior finance ministry official to discuss the global economy
and foreign exchange markets. The pound surged against the
dollar and the euro after Standard & Poor’s raised its outlook
on U.K. debt and  gross domestic product  rose twice as much as
economists estimated. The Swedish krona weakened.  “There is some underlying nervousness about
intervention,” said  Daragh Maher , deputy head of global
foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole SA in London. “The
market got a little more edgy” as the yen neared 80 per dollar,
Maher said.  The yen slid 0.7 percent to 81.40 against the dollar at
8:28 a.m. in New York, from 80.81 yen yesterday, when it reached
80.41 yen, the strongest level since April 1995. The euro bought
112.98 yen, compared with 112.85 yen. The U.S. currency was at
$1.3888 per euro, compared with $1.3965. The pound rose 0.8
percent to $1.5849 and appreciated 1.3 percent to 87.62 pence
per euro.  Japan’s currency has appreciated more than 5 percent
against the dollar since authorities intervened in foreign-
exchange markets for the first time in six years on Sept. 15.
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said on Oct. 23 the government
stands ready to counter a rise in the yen if necessary. He also
said Japan’s currency policy hadn’t changed after discussions
about foreign-exchange markets at a Group of 20 nations meeting
in Gyeongju, South Korea.  ‘Surprise Move’  Japan’s Vice Finance Minister  Fumihiko Igarashi  said
yesterday that currency-market intervention is most effective
when it’s unexpected.  “A surprise move would probably be effective to some
extent,” Igarashi said in an interview in Tokyo. “We can’t
make an announcement in advance that we will act, but, on the
other hand, we can’t say that we won’t act either.”  Japan’s government will make 1.5 trillion yen ($18.5
billion) from its foreign-exchange special account available to
Japan Bank for International Cooperation for overseas investment
and infrastructure projects, the finance ministry said.  The decision may be construed by some as “indirect
intervention,”  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist in Hong
Kong at Royal Bank of Canada, wrote in a note to clients.  The pound rose for a second day against the euro after the
U.K.’s outlook was raised to stable from negative by Standard &
Poor’s, which affirmed the nation’s AAA ratings.  Bond Purchases  Sterling also appreciated as growth in GDP damped concern
the Bank of England will restart its bond-purchase program next
month to boost the economy. GDP rose 0.8 in the three months
through September, after increasing 1.2 percent in the second
quarter, according to data from the Office for National
Statistics. Economists forecast a 0.4 percent gain, according to
the median prediction in a Bloomberg survey.  “Those numbers were strong, which is going to be
instructive for those who were thinking that QE could come as
early as next month,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director
of foreign-exchange strategy at CIBC World Markets in London.
“They’ve got an opportunity to  pause  now until the end of the
year to see how the consumer holds up.”  The Swedish krona fell against all 16 of its most-traded
counterparts after the nation’s central bank scaled back its
interest-rate outlook, citing “weak developments overseas.”
The Riksbank increased the main rate by a quarter percentage
point to 1 percent today. The decision was predicted by all 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The krona depreciated 1 percent to 9.2905 per euro from
9.1955. It weakened 1.1 percent to 6.6595 per dollar.  Thailand’s baht fell amid concern the nation will unveil
steps to slow fund inflows after the currency reached a 13-year
high this month.  The baht dropped 0.3 percent to 29.89 per dollar. The Thai
currency has risen 11 percent against the dollar this year, the
best performer in Asia outside Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 