-- Dollar Will Recover as Fed's Meeting Nears, Jens Nordvig Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-25T19:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/dollar-will-recover-as-fed-s-meeting-nears-jens-nordvig-says-tom-keene.html
The  dollar  will surprise investors
with a recovery from near an eight-month low against the euro
and a 15-year low versus the yen, said  Jens Nordvig , a managing
director of currency research at Nomura Holdings Inc.  The greenback has fallen against all its major counterparts
since Sept. 21, when the Federal Reserve said in a statement
following its policy meeting that it’s prepared to increase
purchases of government debt to support the economic recovery.
The dollar fell the most in the third quarter against a basket
of currencies including the euro, yen and pound since 2002.  “The next couple weeks you want to be long dollar going
into the Federal Open Market Committee,” Nordvig said in an
interview today on Bloomberg’s "Surveillance Midday’’ with  Tom Keene . “I think the dollar is going to surprise you.” A long
is a bet a currency will rise.  The FOMC is scheduled to decide on monetary policy Nov. 2-
3. Futures traders trimmed bets the dollar will fall against the
yen, Swiss franc and the Australian dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed
Oct. 22.  “We recommend you buy it against the Australian dollar,”
Nordvig said.  The Aussie traded within a cent of parity with its U.S.
counterpart after reaching that level on Oct. 15 for first time
since it was freely floated in 1983. Bets rose to 52 percent
that the Reserve Bank of Australia will increase its target rate
when it meets Nov. 2, according to an  index  compiled by Credit
Suisse Group AG. The probability was as low as 31 percent on
Oct. 14.  “I think you want to play it against major currencies, not
emerging markets,” Nordvig said. “It’s more about what the
FOMC is going to do next week."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net 
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  