-- DP World's Container-Volume Growth Accelerates as Global Trade Recovers
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-10-25T13:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/dp-world-says-quarterly-container-throughput-rises-14-to-13-million-teu.html
DP World Ltd. , the world’s fourth-
biggest port operator, said cargo-volume growth is accelerating
from first-half gains after a global trade rebound increased
third-quarter freight handling.  The number of 20-foot containers passing through the Dubai-
based company’s 28 ports worldwide rose 8.9 percent from a year
earlier to 7.3 million, DP World said today in a statement.
Including another 22 terminals that DP World manages, third-
quarter cargo handling rose 14 percent to 13 million containers.  “DP World’s container volumes are back in line with 2008
peak levels,” Chief Executive Officer  Mohammed Sharaf  said in
the statement. “The strong third-quarter results will lead to a
better second half than the first.”  The state-owned port operator handled 8 percent fewer
containers last year as the worldwide recession cut demand for
moving goods. Global trade volume will rise by 9 percent this
year and by 6.3 percent in 2011 after contracting 11.3 percent
last year, according to estimates by the Washington-based
International Monetary Fund.  DP World was unchanged at 60 cents at the close of trading
at 2 p.m. in Dubai today.  The company is 80 percent-owned by Dubai World, which
reached an agreement with creditors in September to alter the
terms on $24.9 billion of debt. The state-owned holding company
has said the port operator isn’t part of the debt restructuring.  First-half freight volume at the 28 DP World-controlled
ports increased 7 percent to 13.2 million containers. The third-
quarter growth was driven by a 7 percent increase in Europe,
Africa and the Middle East and a 44 percent jump in the Americas
and Australia, the company said. Volume in the Asia-Pacific
region and India fell 6.7 percent.  DP World is on schedule to open ports at Vallarpadam,
India, and Karachi, Pakistan, later this year, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  