-- BP Won't Turn Away From U.S. After Gulf of Mexico Oil Spill, Dudley Says
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-10-25T14:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/dudley-says-bp-won-t-turn-away-from-u-s-in-wake-of-gulf-spill.html
BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Dudley  said the company won’t quit the U.S. after the
nation’s worst oil spill.  “I can promise you that I did not become chief executive
of BP in order to walk away from the U.S.,” Dudley, who
succeeded  Tony Hayward  at the start of the month, said in a
speech to the Confederation of British Industry. “BP will not
be quitting America. There is too much at stake, both for BP and
the U.S.”  Dudley said there was a “great rush to judgment” on the
accident in the Gulf of Mexico, which killed 11 people, and he
asked for a “balanced and informed” assessment over the next
few years. He promised to become one of the best in the energy
industry at safety and win back investor and public trust in the
London-based company.  The U.S.-born CEO is seeking to reassure shareholders that
after the spill pushed the share price down 34 percent and
forced BP to set aside $32 billion in the second quarter for
cleanup and compensation. BP, the largest oil and gas producer
in the U.S., employs 23,000 people and has half a million
individual shareholders in the nation.  There “is strong support and a powerful desire for BP to
succeed and prosper,” Dudley said. “That interest is shared by
the British Government, which gave us such stalwart support
during the recent crisis.”  The company, which pumped 40 percent of output in the U.S.
last year, paid $25 billion in taxes and levies to the
government in the last several years, Dudley said.  BP remained committed to exploration and production in
deepwater areas, “one of the most important sources of growth
for BP,” Dudley said.  “Our board and our management team are determined that BP
will learn from and apply best practice from wherever it can be
found, and that it will, over time, become the best company in
our industry at managing risk,” Dudley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 