-- Dunkin’ Taps Junk Rally to Fund Private Equity Payout
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-10-25T18:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/dunkin-taps-junk-rally-to-fund-private-equity-payout-update3-.html
Dunkin’ Brands Inc., owner of
Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-Robbins restaurants, is taking
advantage of a rally in high-yield debt to raise about $2
billion for a payout to its private-equity shareholders.  The company, purchased in 2006 by Bain Capital LLC, Carlyle
Group and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, plans to sell $625 million
of senior notes and obtain a $1.35 billion senior credit line to
repay securitized debt and help fund a dividend, Dunkin’ Brands
said today in a statement distributed by PR Newswire.  Dunkin’ Brands follows Brickman Group Holdings Inc.,
 Goodman Global Inc . and Asurion Corp. in tapping investor demand
that’s enabling private-equity firms to carve out payouts before
a possible doubling of taxes on dividends in 2011. Banks
arranged or started marketing almost $7 billion of leveraged
loans in October, 3.5 times more than the year’s average and the
most since the credit crisis.  “The conditions are ripe for more debt-financed payments
to shareholders,” said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s
Capital Markets Group in New York. “The absolute level of
speculative-grade bond yields are the lowest they’ve been since
2005.”  The average yield on junk debt fell to 7.74 percent on Oct.
22, the lowest since 7.73 percent on June 6, 2007, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II index.
High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Junk-Debt Rally  Junk bonds have rallied 13.8 percent this year as the
S&P/LSTA Leveraged Loan Index, representing about 95 percent of
institutional U.S. bank debt market, has gained 7.91 percent.  There were no dividend deals in the first nine months of
last year, with volume peaking at 5 percent of total leveraged-
loan issuance in December, according to S&P’s Leveraged
Commentary and Data. As of Oct. 14, 38 percent of loans raised
this month were set to fund shareholder payouts, almost triple
the 2010 average.  Speculative-grade companies had sold $24.2 billion of bonds
and loans to fund dividends as of Oct. 6, S&P LCD data show.  Taxes on dividends are slated to jump to as much as 39.6
percent next year from the current 15 percent, which was adopted
in 2003 by former President  George W. Bush  and a Republican-
controlled Congress. President  Barack Obama ’s budget, sent to
Congress Feb. 26, would limit the increase to 20 percent.  Moody’s downgraded five high-yield companies in the third
quarter citing payments to shareholders, the most since the
three months ended June 2008, Lonski said.  “You’re going to see more credit rating downgrades going
forward being ascribed to the diminishing of credit quality
resulting from special payments to shareholders,” he said.  Bond, Loan Underwriters  Dunkin’ Brands’ notes will be issued through Dunkin’
Finance Corp., according to the statement.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG will manage the
bond sale and Barclays Plc will arrange the loan, according to a
person familiar with the negotiations, who declined to be
identified because the terms are private.  Michelle King , a spokeswoman for Canton, Massachusetts-
based Dunkin’ Brands, declined to comment on the financing
details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 