-- Greece Likely to Default By 2013 as Debts Remain, El-Erian Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-26T16:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/el-erian-says-greece-is-likely-to-default-on-debt-within-three-years-time.html
Greece is likely to default over the
next three years because budget-cutting won’t be enough to
reduce the nation’s debt burden, Pacific Investment Management
Co. Chief Executive Officer  Mohamed A. El-Erian  said.  It’s in Greece’s interest to default “as long as you can
contain the contagion to other countries and it is done through
orderly restructuring and repricing to retain competitiveness,”
El-Erian said at a conference sponsored by the Economist
magazine in New York yesterday. Like Latin America’s “lost
decade” in the 1980s, “the alternative doesn’t promise growth
and employment generation,” he said.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold Greek
debt instead of similar-maturity German bonds jumped to a two-
week high today. The European Union and International Monetary
Fund approved a 110 billion-euro ($153 billion) aid package on
May 2 in exchange for Greece agreeing to cut public-sector wages
and pensions and raise taxes on fuel, alcohol and cigarettes.  “Greek bonds have been under pressure since El-Erian’s
comments,” said  Orlando Green , assistant director of capital-
markets strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
in London. “The near-term picture doesn’t look so bad for
Greece, but it’s a long journey ahead.”  Greek bonds slid today, pushing the 10-year  yield  up 31
basis points to 9.66 percent at 5 p.m. in London, the highest
since Oct. 8.  Investors demand 716 basis points, or 7.2 percent, more
yield to hold 10-year Greek bonds than they do to hold benchmark
German bunds. That’s also the widest spread since Oct. 8.  Election ‘Nervousness’  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  urged Greeks to vote for
his ruling party and its reforms in local elections next month,
saying that while he didn’t plan to call early national
elections, “a decision by the Greek people” would be needed if
the government found itself unable to push through changes.  “There may be some nervousness ahead of the elections”
weighing on Greek debt today, Green said.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis erupted at the end of 2009
after Greece’s newly elected socialist government said the
budget deficit was twice as big as the previous administration
disclosed. Irish, Portuguese and Spanish bonds subsequently
slumped on concern that Greece’s crisis would be followed by
other fiscal problems on Europe’s periphery.  The Bank of Greece today said the nation must push ahead
with its deficit-reduction plan. “Fiscal consolidation must now
move at a much faster pace, with drastic limitation in public-
sector waste,” the central bank said in an e-mailed report.  ‘Heroic’ Target  Papandreou  has promised austerity measures amounting to 11
percent of gross domestic product, according to  IMF data .  “I have never seen an 11 percent adjustment on the fiscal
side being delivered” under the current program’s assumptions,
said El-Erian, who worked at the IMF for 15 years. “Eleven
percent is heroic.”  Credit-default swaps protecting Greek government bonds for
five years cost 668.5 basis points, according to CMA in London
today. Swap prices surged before the May rescue plan and had
eased since then, suggesting Papandreou’s austerity measures had
bought the country time to reduce a budget deficit that’s more
than four times the European Union’s limit.  The EU estimated Greece’s 2009 deficit at 13.6 percent of
gross domestic product, the bloc’s highest after Ireland, and
projects a shortfall this year of 7.8 percent of GDP.  “The fiscal adjustment that Greece needs to do is
unprecedented,”  Giada Giani , senior European economist at
Citigroup Inc., said at a conference in Brussels today. “There
is a limit to the amount of fiscal tightening a country can bear
and support without the tightening becoming self-defeating, so
detrimental for economic growth that it doesn’t really deliver
an improvement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  