-- TeliaSonera Raises Outlook on Sweden Smartphones, Eurasia Push
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-10-25T11:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/teliasonera-says-third-quarter-net-rises-to-913-million-on-higher-demand.html
(Corrects year-earlier margin in seventh paragraph.)  TeliaSonera AB  reported higher
third-quarter profit and raised its full-year forecast as
customers in Sweden bought more smartphones and Eurasian markets
from Russia to Nepal improved.  TeliaSonera now expects full-year sales to rise in line
with the 3.4 percent growth recorded in the first nine months,
in local currencies and excluding acquisitions. Earlier it
predicted sales in line with the 2.9 percent first-half growth.
The margin for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization is now expected to be “higher,” compared with
“somewhat higher” earlier.  Third-quarter net income rose 19 percent to 5.99 billion
kronor ($915 million), Stockholm-based TeliaSonera said in a
 statement  today. Analysts expected 6.02 billion kronor,
according to the average of 16  estimates  collected by Bloomberg.
Revenue declined 1 percent to 26.8 billion kronor, in line with
20 analyst estimates.  TeliaSonera, which had a head start with  Apple Inc. ’s
iPhone in the Nordic and Baltic region, now sees seven out of
ten customers in Sweden buying smartphones, including Nokia Oyj
devices and models based on Google Inc.’s Android. Businesses in
Eurasia added subscribers, led by Nepal, Kazakhstan and
Uzbekistan. The company is investing in fiber-optic networks in
Sweden as it continues to trim costs in the older fixed-line
business.  TeliaSonera rose 1.3 percent to 55.95 kronor at 9:13 a.m.
in Stockholm trading.  Profitable Growth  “The organic growth rate improved further in the third
quarter and the growth is coming from many parts within our
group,” Chief Executive Officer  Lars Nyberg  said in the
statement. “More importantly, we are delivering profitable
growth and the Ebitda margin, excluding non-recurring items, in
the third quarter was the highest in the company’s history.”  The margin for Ebitda, excluding items, rose to 36.5
percent from 36.1 percent a year earlier. TeliaSonera lowered
its estimated capital expenditure spending for the year to 13.5
percent of sales from 14 percent to 15 percent.  The strengthening of the krona generally hurt the Swedish
company more in the Nordic and Baltic region than in Eurasia.
Without currency effects and acquisitions, sales would have
grown 4.3 percent in the third quarter, the company said.  Income from OAO MegaFon, Russia’s third-largest wireless
operator which is 43.8 percent owned by TeliaSonera, increased
23 percent to 1.44 billion kronor, helped by a stronger ruble.
Earnings from the company’s 38 percent holding in Turkcell
Iletisim Hizmetleri AS were little changed at 605 million
kronor. TeliaSonera agreed last year to merge its stakes in the
companies with those of Russia’s Alfa Group.  Its Spanish subsidiary Yoigo achieved close to 4 percent
market share and is now expected to become profitable at the
Ebitda level this quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  