-- Emerging-Market Equities Advance on Higher Corporate Earnings, Fund Flows
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-10-25T06:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/emerging-market-equities-advance-on-higher-corporate-earnings-fund-flows.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with
the benchmark index gaining the most in almost two weeks, as
corporate earnings bolstered confidence in the region’s economy
and global funds bought more shares in Asian developing nations.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 0.9 percent to
1,115.44 at 2:10 p.m. in Singapore, set for its steepest
increase since Oct. 13.  China’s stock  index advanced to a six-
month high on the prospect the country’s next five-year economic
plan will boost consumer and technology companies.  Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. , India’s second-biggest
drugmaker by revenue, rose 1.5 percent to the highest in at
least 19 years after its second-quarter profit jumped 32
percent.  Kia Motors Corp. , South Korea’s second-biggest
automaker, advanced 5.7 percent in Seoul trading after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. raised its stock recommendation to “buy,”
citing volume growth.  “Much of the corporate earnings have beaten
expectations,” said Geoffrey Ng, who manages $1 billion as
chief executive officer at HLG Asset Management Sdn. in Kuala
Lumpur. “There are also expectations of further liquidity flows
into Asia.”  Morgan Stanley raised Asia’s rating to “overweight” and
increased China’s allocation, while cutting Latin America to
“underweight” in a global emerging markets model portfolio,
Jonathan Garner, the brokerage’s Hong Kong-based chief Asian and
emerging-market strategist, said in a report today.  Funds that invest in global emerging-market equities drew
record inflows in the third week of October, according to EPFR
Global. The funds took in $3.8 billion in the week ending Oct.
20, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research company said in
an e-mailed statement.  Shanghai Composite  China’s Shanghai Composite Index advanced 2 percent to its
highest level since April 16. China’s focus on both income
growth and redistribution in its next five-year economic plan is
bullish for the nation’s consumer stocks, according to China
International Capital Corp.  India’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex , gained 1.4 percent in
Mumbai as global funds became net buyers of the nation’s stocks
for a 37th trading day, the longest run of inflows in more than
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Benchmark
indexes in Indonesia and Malaysia gained.  Doosan Infracore Co., South Korea’s largest construction-
equipment maker, climbed 6.7 percent after Korea Investment &
Securities Co. raised its stock price estimate, citing higher
earnings expectations.  Gree Electric Appliances Inc. , China’s largest maker of
home air-conditioners, surged 7.7 percent and liquor maker
Luzhou Laojiao Co. gained 7.9 percent after reporting higher
profit. Neusoft Corp. led gains by China’s technology stocks
after the government said it will start a cloud computing trial.  EVA Airways Corp. advanced the daily maximum 7 percent
after Taiwan’s second-largest air carrier posted nine-month net
income of NT$11 billion, compared with a net loss of NT$3.9
billion a year earlier. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
share-price estimate, while keeping the rating at “neutral.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  