-- Emerging-Market Equities Advance on Higher Corporate Earnings, Fund Flows
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-10-25T10:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/emerging-market-stocks-rally-as-investors-bet-on-fed-quantitative-easing.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with
the  benchmark  index gaining the most in almost two weeks, as
investors speculated the Federal Reserve may announce another
round of quantitative easing to bolster the U.S. economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 1 percent to 1,115.99
at 11:03 in London, set for its steepest increase since Oct. 13.
 Chinese shares  jumped to a six-month high. Indonesian  stocks 
rallied 1.3 percent to a record and the  Micex  index advanced 1.1
percent.  Emerging-market currencies strengthened, with the Korean
won and the South African rand appreciating by more than 0.6
percent to the dollar and the ruble strengthening 0.5 percent
after the Group of 20 finance chiefs pledged to avoid
“competitive devaluation” at the end of a meeting in South
Korea on Oct. 23. That reinforced expectations the Fed will
announce significant purchases of securities at its November
meeting, boosting the supply of dollars chasing risky assets in
a policy known as “QE2,” analysts said.  “Overall opinion is mixed as whether QE2 will make much
difference to the overall direction of the economy but there’s a
higher level of confidence that it will boost asset prices for a
period of time,”  Jim Reid , head of fundamental strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG in London, and  Nick Burns , a credit strategist
at the bank, wrote in a report today. “Emerging markets and
commodities seem to be seeing the largest flows as a result of
the liquidity.”  Norilsk, Gazprom  OAO Norilsk Nickel , Russia’s biggest mining company, jumped
3.2 percent, the most in more than two months.  OAO Gazprom , the
world’s largest natural-gas producer, gained 1.4 percent.  Crude oil rose 1.3 percent to $82.74 a barrel in electronic
trading in New York. Copper for three-month delivery climbed 2.2
percent on the London Metal Exchange.  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index  gained 0.7 percent to a
record.  Petrol Ofisi AS , the country’s biggest fuel retailer,
rose 5.9 percent to its highest level since February after OMV
AG, central Europe’s biggest oil company, agreed to buy a 54
percent stake for 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion).  The Shanghai Composite Index advanced 2.6 percent to its
highest level since April 16. China’s focus on both income
growth and redistribution in its next five-year economic plan is
bullish for the nation’s consumer stocks, according to China
International Capital Corp.  Gree Electric  Gree Electric Appliances Inc. , China’s largest maker of
home air-conditioners, surged 6.9 percent and liquor maker
Luzhou Laojiao Co. gained 9.5 percent after reporting higher
profit.  Morgan Stanley raised Asia’s rating to “overweight” and
increased China’s allocation, while cutting Latin America to
“underweight” in a global emerging markets model portfolio,
 Jonathan Garner , the brokerage’s Hong Kong-based chief Asian and
emerging-market strategist, said in a report today.  India’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex , gained 0.7 percent in
Mumbai as global funds became net buyers of the nation’s stocks
for a 37th trading day, the longest run of inflows in more than
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. , India’s second-biggest
drugmaker by revenue, rose 1.6 percent to the highest in at
least 19 years after its second-quarter profit jumped 32
percent.  South Korea’s  Kospi  index gained 1 percent.  Kia Motors
Corp. , the nation’s second-biggest automaker, advanced 5.8
percent in Seoul trading after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised
its stock recommendation to “buy,” citing volume growth.  Taiwan’s  TAIEX index  surged 1.7 percent, its biggest rally
in six weeks.  EVA Airways Corp . advanced the daily maximum 7 percent
after Taiwan’s second-largest air carrier posted nine-month net
income of NT$11 billion, compared with a net loss of NT$3.9
billion a year earlier. Goldman Sachs raised its share-price
estimate, while keeping the recommendation at “neutral.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  