-- Emirates NBD Denies Talks on Merger of Emirates Islamic Unit, Dubai Bank
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-10-25T12:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/emirates-nbd-ceo-denies-holding-talks-on-merger-between-eib-dubai-bank.html
Emirates NBD PJSC , the United Arab
Emirates’ biggest bank by assets, is not holding any talks about
merging its  Emirates Islamic Bank PJSC  unit with Dubai Bank
PJSC, Chief Executive Officer  Rick Pudner  said.  “The reports in the press regarding the completion of
these technical examinations, evaluations are not accurate,”
Pudner said on an earnings conference call from Dubai today. “I
would just like to confirm that there are currently no talks
with regard to the merger or acquisition of Dubai Bank by
Emirates Islamic.”  Al Khaleej reported Oct. 24 that Emirates Islamic and Dubai
Bank have reached a preliminary agreement on the merger of the
two Shariah-compliant lenders, citing people it didn’t identify.
The due diligence process is complete and the final agreement
will be made in three weeks, the newspaper said. Emirates
Islamic may buy Dubai Bank and purchase mortgage company  Amlak
Finance PJSC  once the acquisition is complete, Arabic daily Al
Ittihad said Oct. 3, citing unidentified people.  Emirates NBD, 56 percent owned by the Dubai government,
holds 99.9 percent of Emirates Islamic Bank. Dubai Bank is owned
by Dubai Banking Group PJSC, in which a unit of Dubai Holding
LLC has a 70 percent stake and  Emaar Properties PJSC  the rest.  Dubai Holding, a company controlled by Dubai ruler Sheikh
 Mohammed Bin Rashid Al-Maktoum , and its units owe banks $12
billion and have begun talks to roll over some of the loans, a
person with knowledge of the matter said May 10. Emirates NBD is
one of the biggest lenders to state-owned Dubai World, which
reached an agreement with creditors in September on altering the
terms on $24.9 billion of loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  