-- Emirates NBD Third-Quarter Net Drops 60% on Provisions; Misses Estimates
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-10-25T13:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/emirates-nbd-third-quarter-net-drops-60-to-115-million-misses-estimates.html
Emirates NBD PJSC  reported a
60 percent drop in third-quarter profit, missing analysts’
estimates, as the United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank set aside
more money to cover bad loans.  Net income  fell to 424 million dirhams ($115 million)
from 1.05 billion dirhams a year earlier, the Dubai government-
controlled bank said in a  statement to  Nasdaq Dubai today.
The median  estimate  of three analysts was for a profit of
810 million dirhams, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.A.E. banks are being hurt after the global credit crisis
weakened lending and investment banking, pushing up provisions
for defaults on loan repayments. Emirates NBD is one of the
biggest lenders to state-owned Dubai World, which plans to delay
repayments on $24.9 billion of debt. The bank booked full
impairment provisions for its Dubai World loans in the third
quarter and set aside money to cover 70 percent of its exposure
to Saudi Arabia’s Saad and Algosaibi business groups.  “Fee and commission income is down sharply from the second
quarter and we have low growth offset by good cost control,”
said Raj Madha, a banking analyst at Rasmala Investment Bank
Ltd. “We expect elevated provisioning” at U.A.E. banks to
continue in 2011, although it won’t be as high as this year,
he said.  Provisions  Emirates NBD said overall provisions for bad loans rose
67 percent from a year earlier to 1.2 billion dirhams, taking
the bank’s non-performing loans to total loans ratio to 3.66
percent. Overall loans fell 6 percent from December to 201.1
billion dirhams at the end of September, while deposits grew 10
percent to 198.8 billion dirhams.  Emirates NBD shares closed unchanged at 3 dirhams on the
Dubai bourse today. They have risen 1.7 percent this year.  The average non-performing loans to gross loans ratio for
the nine largest banks in the U.A.E. rose to 4.3 percent in 2009
from 1.7 percent at the end of 2008 as the economy slowed, Fitch
Ratings said in a report in June. Economic growth in the U.A.E.,
the second-biggest Arab economy, will probably improve to 3.2
percent in 2011 from 2.4 percent this year, according to
estimates from the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .  “We would expect NPLs to rise to about 4 percent to
4.5 percent over the next six-eight months and then plateau,”
Chief Executive Officer  Rick Pudner  told reporters on a
conference call today. Emirates NBD expects no loan impairments
from property company Nakheel PJSC’s debt reorganization,
he said.  Nakheel  Nakheel, the Dubai World-owned property developer, said
in July a group of creditors unanimously supported a plan on
altering the terms on $10.5 billion of loans and unpaid bills.
The company plans to offer lenders interest of 4 percentage
points more than benchmark rates as it reorganizes debt, two
bankers with knowledge of the plan said on July 13.  Emirates NBD’s net interest income fell 7 percent to
1.7 billion dirhams, while fee and other income rose 1 percent
to 676 million dirhams. The net interest margin, the difference
between what the bank earns on loans and pays out on deposits
and funds, narrowed to 2.51 percent in the third quarter from
2.54 percent in the second.  The bank’s cost-to-income ratio was 30.9 percent, compared
with 32.4 percent a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at   asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   Eevans3@bloomberg.net  