-- Employers May Win U.S. Health Law Exemption to Switch Insurers
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-10-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/employers-may-win-u-s-health-law-exemption-to-switch-insurers.html
Employers may be allowed to switch
their health insurers and still be shielded from costly coverage
changes mandated in President  Barack Obama’s  health-care
overhaul, a White House official said.  Under the law passed in March, once companies change plans
they must provide added services, including preventive care.
The U.S. is weighing whether to allow employers to avoid the
requirements, even with a new insurer, as long as benefit levels
stay the same, said a White House official who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private.  The overhaul has been a campaign target for Republicans who
opposed it. As the mid-term election nears, the administration
has modified provisions in the law in at least two instances to
give businesses more flexibility. In this case, the change would
allow employers to shop for  cheaper plans  without a penalty, a
goal that fits with the law’s intent to lower costs, said John
Green, of the  National Association of Health Underwriters .  “They are listening, they are interested in hearing what’s
going on out there, what the troubles are,” said Green, a
lobbyist whose Washington-based group represents insurance
brokers, in a telephone interview.  Green and  James Klein , president of the  American Benefits
Council , a Washington-based group that represents employers that
sponsor health plans, are both in discussions about the so-
called grandfather rules with the  Office of Consumer Information
and Insurance Oversight , which is part of the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services. The Labor and Treasury departments
also are involved.  ‘Really Do Care’  “I think they really do care what businesses are saying,”
Klein said in an interview.  In late September, the Obama administration exempted groups
and companies from a requirement that would raise minimum annual
benefits for low-cost health plans used to cover about 1 million
part-time or low-wage workers. That concession came after
restaurant companies, including  McDonald’s Corp. , complained
about the potential for added costs. Another change delayed tax
reporting rules by a year.  The grandfather rules were intended to make good on Obama’s
promise that people who liked their health-care coverage could
keep it. Grandfather status was offered to plans that existed in
March, when the health law was signed. Fifty-one percent of
companies would lose grandfather status by 2013, according to
one administration  estimate .  Along with adding coverage for preventative services,
employers that change insurers would have to offer an appeals
process for health coverage that may require the hiring of third
party contractors, and gain new responsibilities for reporting
on their benefit packages to the U.S. government.  This may mean fewer workers would fall under the full
consumer protections in the law. It might also save jobs, said
Grace Schmitt, vice president of human resources, for
 Glimcher Realty Trust , a Columbus, Ohio-based manager of
shopping malls.  An inability to look for less expensive coverage may almost
double Glimcher’s spending on benefits by 2014, she said.  “The
only way for us to keep costs down for 2011 is to be able to
maneuver things with our plan, or switch carriers,” Schmitt
said in a telephone interview.  Adjusting the requirement to allow changes in insurer plans
would keep  Glimcher Realty Trust  from having to fire as many as
a third of its workers, Schmitt said.  The company would sacrifice its grandfather status to shop
for less expensive coverage, said Schmitt, the human resources
official. “It doesn’t make sense for us to try and maintain
grandfather status” under the current rules, she said.  Higher Premiums  Higher premiums and the cost of providing benefits mandated
by the health law will increase the company’s annual medical
spending to $6 million in 2014 from $3.3 million this year,
Schmitt said.  Midsize and small companies with fewer than 750 employees
have the most at stake. They may not be able to self-insure, or
set aside money to cover potential claims.  As a result, the companies have to buy coverage from a
 health insurance company . Larger employers with more resources
tend to self-insure and pay the health plans to administer their
benefits.  Employers with fewer than 750 workers tend to buy complete
coverage, said Tom Billet, a senior consultant with the benefits
firm  Towers Watson . The New York-based firm consults with large
employers on their benefits.  Without changes to the grandfather regulations, Glimcher
will probably fire or subcontract some of its 1,000-plus
 workers , Schmitt said.  The company provides health benefits to about 300 full-time
managers, maintenance workers and security staff who run
Glimcher’s  mall properties .  More exemptions could be on the way. “We’re working with
everyone from the business community to insurers to state
insurance commissioners to consumers to ensure a smooth
transition,” said  Jay Angoff , director of the HHS insurance
oversight office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 