-- Hermes Family Members Didn't Sell `Significant' Shares to LVMH
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-10-26T14:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/hermes-founding-family-members-didn-t-sell-significant-shares-to-lvmh.html
The founding family of  Hermes
International SCA  didn’t sell a block of shares in the French
maker of Birkin bags and silk scarves to  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA , according to an Hermes executive.  LVMH, the world’s largest luxury-goods maker, increased its
stake in Paris-based Hermes to 17.1 percent, exercising options
it already held, LVMH said today in a statement. LVMH said Oct.
23 it owned 14.2 percent of the maker of Birkin bags and
derivative instruments for another 2.9 percent of Hermes, at a
total cost of 1.45 billion euros ($2 billion). LVMH didn’t say
how or from whom it bought the stake.  “While some family members make small trades from time to
time, to our knowledge, no one from the family has sold a
significant amount of shares,”  Patrick Albaladejo , Hermes vice
president of strategic development and image, said yesterday in
a phone interview. “Hermes didn’t know about it.”  Hermes  fell as much as 25.85 euros, or 13 percent, to 177
euros, the biggest  intraday  drop since at least 1993, and traded
at 179.15 euros as of 4:02 p.m. in Paris trading. The stock rose
15 percent yesterday.  ‘Absolute Unity’  “Unsolicited” movements in the capital have led the
company to confirm the family’s “absolute unity and unanimous
wish” to retain control in the long term, Hermes said in a
statement yesterday. Hermes shares have climbed 80 percent since
the May 1 death of former Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Louis Dumas  amid speculation that members of the founding family may
be more willing to sell the 173-year-old company.  About 73 percent of  Hermes  is held by the family, “which
is roughly what is needed for full control,” said Albaladejo.
Hermes is an SCA, or Societe en Commandite par Actions, a French
corporate structure allowing members of a family that owns a
business to keep control of decision-making even if they become
minority shareholders.  The family believes “that independence is essential to the
future success of the company,” Albaladejo said. Hermes is
considering options on how to proceed, though “no specific
action has been taken,” he added.  LVMH would have  paid  an average of about 80 euros a share
at the stated value for the entire stake, or about a 54 percent
discount to the Oct. 22 closing price of 176.20 euros, according
to Bloomberg calculations. That would indicate that the shares
were sold a long time ago, Albaladejo said. Hermes shares last
traded around 80 euros in  March 2009 .  LVMH, which is also based in Paris, said on Oct. 23 that it
doesn’t intend to make a tender offer, take control or seek
board representation at Hermes. LVMH said in a separate
statement yesterday that it met French rules regarding the
purchase and will file the appropriate notifications within the
time frame stipulated by the market regulator, the AMF. French
law requires shareholders to declare when they own 5 percent or
more of a company.  “It will be up to the AMF to decide if rules have been
respected or there has been any irregularity,” Albaladejo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 