-- Eskom Planning to Raise `Significant' Funding From Debt Markets Next Year
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-25T15:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/eskom-planning-to-raise-significant-funding-from-debt-markets-next-year.html
Eskom Holdings Ltd., South Africa’s
state power utility, said it plans to raise “significant”
funds from the debt markets early next year to help fund a 190
billion-rand ($27 billion) gap in its expansion plans.  “We intend to approach the international bond markets
early next year,” Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dames  told
reporters in Johannesburg today. “The markets are very liquid
and we know that there’s a significant appetite for Eskom out
there. There is significant long-term money available.”  Eskom, which supplies about 95 percent of South Africa’s
power, is spending 485 billion rand building new power plants
and reviving mothballed generators to overcome a capacity
shortfall. A power shortage shut some mines and smelters for
days in early 2008 and the utility has warned of possible cuts
in the next few years.  Eskom can’t raise all the funds it needs “immediately”
and the first portion of debt will “set the benchmark for the
market,” Dames said. It will be a “quite significant” amount
and “will certainly be raised in the U.S. bond market,” he
said. That will then be followed by a “full program of fund-
raising for the next year or so,” Dames said, without
commenting further.  The largest plants in Eskom’s expansion plan are the Medupi
and Kusile coal-fired power plants.  Delayed Start-Up  The first unit of Medupi, the most advanced project, is now
expected to start generating in the fourth quarter of 2012,
compared with an earlier start date of September 2011, the
utility said in an e-mailed response to questions today.  First commercial production from Kusile is expected “at
the beginning of 2015,” Eskom said. That compares with an
initial forecast of June 2013, it said. The cost of Kusile is
now also expected to be more than the estimated 142 billion rand
because of an escalation in construction costs and interest
charges on the project, Dames said.  Eskom will also be the lead partner in South Africa’s
planned nuclear power plants, Dames said on Oct. 23. The country
plans to build six plants by 2023 to deal with an energy
shortage in Africa’s biggest economy, the Department of Energy
said on Oct. 8.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , Xstrata Plc and ArcelorMittal South
Africa Ltd. are amongst South Africa’s largest power users.
South Africa is the world’s biggest platinum producer and
the third-largest miner of gold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  