-- Europe Hits China With Five-Year Tariff on Wheels Used by BMW, Renault
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-10-25T09:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/europe-hits-china-with-five-year-tariff-on-wheels-used-by-bmw-renault.html
The European Union imposed a five-
year tariff on aluminum car wheels from China to help German,
French, Italian and other EU producers compete against cheaper
imports, threatening cost rises for automakers.  The 22.3 percent duty punishes Chinese exporters including
 YHI Manufacturing (Shanghai) Co.  and  Zhejiang Wanfeng Auto Wheel
Co . for selling the wheels in the 27-nation EU below cost, a
practice known as dumping. Car manufacturers including
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s biggest maker of luxury
autos, and Renault SA use the wheels.  European aluminum-wheel producers including  Borbet Solingen
GmbH  of Germany, Francaise de Roues and Italy’s Speedline Srl
suffered “material injury” as a result of dumped imports from
China, the EU said in a decision today in Luxembourg. The five-
year levy is higher than a provisional duty of 20.6 percent
introduced in May and will take effect after publication in the
EU  Official Journal  by Nov. 11.  Chinese exporters doubled their combined share of the EU
market for aluminum wheels to 12.4 percent in the 12 months
through June 2009 compared with 2006, according to the bloc.  The EU said the benefits of the anti-dumping duty for
European aluminum-wheel producers outweigh the disadvantages for
carmakers. With aluminum road wheels representing about 1
percent of the cost of a car, automakers face a maximum cost
increase of 0.22 percent, according to the bloc.  ‘Cost Impact’  “Even this maximum cost impact appears limited in view of
the turnover achieved by carmakers,” said the EU. It said some
automakers claimed that the import duty would force them to move
production abroad and rejected the assertion as
“disproportionate.”  Europe accounts for about 10 percent of China’s aluminum-
wheel exports and demand from carmakers would be hit were the EU
anti-dumping duty above 25 percent, Eric Zhang, an analyst at
researcher Shanghai Metals Market, said in September.  In a separate decision today, the EU imposed five-year
anti-dumping duties as high as 53.2 percent against China on a
chemical used in the construction, metals and food industries.
The levy on sodium gluconate aims to curb import competition for
EU producers including a French unit of Switzerland’s
 Jungbunzlauer AG  and an Italian subsidiary of France’s Roquette
Freres.  The five-year import taxes follow  provisional levies  as
high as 53.4 percent introduced in May and will take effect
after publication in the EU Official Journal by Nov. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  