-- European Industrial Orders Increased Twice as Much as Projected in August
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-10-25T09:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/european-industrial-orders-increased-twice-as-much-as-projected-in-august.html
European  industrial orders  increased
more than twice as much as economists forecast in August, led by
demand for capital goods such as machinery.  Orders  in the 16-nation euro area jumped 5.3 percent from
July, when they fell 1.8 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  Economists  had
forecast a gain of 2.2 percent, the median of 14 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed. In the year,  industrial orders 
rose 24 percent after rising 12 percent in July.  The euro-area recovery is showing signs of holding up in
the face of governments’ budget cuts and cooling global demand.
 Schneider Electric SA , the world’s largest maker of circuit
breakers, raised its second-half sales forecast on Oct. 20. In
Germany , business confidence  unexpectedly rose last month and
euro-region  manufacturing growth  accelerated.  Orders “boost hopes that the manufacturing sector can
continue to do well in the fourth quarter,” said  Howard Archer ,
chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in London.
“However, the suspicion is that manufacturers will find life
tougher over the coming months.”  The euro was little changed after the release, trading at
$1.4044 at 11:48 a.m. in Frankfurt, up from $1.3954 on Oct. 22.  Orders for capital goods rose 8.1 percent from the previous
month, today’s report showed. Orders for intermediate goods
increased 3.4 percent, while demand for  durable consumer goods 
jumped 5.4 percent. Orders excluding heavy transport equipment
such as ships and trains rose 4.1 percent in the month.  ‘Economic Dent’  World output growth will probably weaken to 4.2 percent in
2011 from 4.8 percent in 2010, the International Monetary Fund
said on Oct. 6. The euro-region economy may expand 1.7 percent
this year and 1.5 percent in 2011, it said.  Schneider , based near Paris, said last week that revenue
jumped 38 percent in the third quarter.  Daimler AG  Chief
Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said on Oct. 22 that he expects
the world’s second-largest luxury carmaker to increase Chinese
deliveries by a “double-digit” percentage in 2011.  So far, the euro region is showing few signs of slowdown.
European  confidence  in the economic outlook unexpectedly
improved in September, industrial output rose more than
economists forecast in August and German manufacturing growth
accelerated in October.  Nevertheless, the euro’s 8 percent appreciation against the
dollar over the past three months is threatening to curb exports
just as governments from Spain to Ireland cut spending. While
 Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, said on Oct. 22 that
nine-month profit jumped more than sixfold, helped by China, it
forecast growth in the current quarter will slow.  “The euro region’s economic dent might not be as
pronounced as some people might have feared,” said  Karsten Junius , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “Growth momentum
is weakening but we’re still on a good level overall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  