-- Ex-OCBC Derivatives Trader Tey Starts Hedge Fund Backed by China Investors
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-10-25T03:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/ex-ocbc-derivatives-trader-tey-starts-hedge-fund-backed-by-china-investors.html
Solaris Asset Management, co-founded
by the former head of equities derivatives at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp., is starting a hedge fund with money from
investors in China.  The Solaris Capital SPC Equity Arbitrage Fund will start
trading with S$30 million ($23 million) on Nov. 8, said  Thomas Tey , a 24-year trading veteran with banks including Singapore-
based  Oversea-Chinese’s  treasury division and Credit Suisse
First Boston in Tokyo.  The Singapore-based manager aims to grow the fund to S$100
million by the end of next year, targeting investors in Asia as
raising assets in the U.S. and Europe is “very, very tough,”
in an interview on Oct. 22. About 50 percent of assets in Asian
hedge funds come from Europe, while 40 percent are from U.S.
investors, according to  Eurekahedge Pte .  “This is not a very conducive environment to be raising
money, but we expect to get to our target,” Tey, 49, said.  Asia’s hedge funds saw $1.2 billion of outflows in the
first seven months of the year, Eurekahedge said in its
September report. The proportion of Asian hedge-fund managers
overseeing $50 million or less has grown to 66 percent of the
industry, from 57 percent two years ago, according to the
Singapore-based industry research firm.  The fund, which will trade stocks and derivatives including
futures, will focus on arbitrage opportunities where it can
profit from price differences between related securities,
according to Tey.  Pricing Gaps  “Arbitrage opportunities exist in all markets under all
market conditions,” he said. The fund won’t be taking
“directional risks.”  Solaris Asset will initially focus on Japan, Hong Kong,
Singapore, Taiwan, Korea and Australia, Tey said. It will trade
markets in the U.S., London, Europe and India in six to 18
months, and subsequently Brazil, Canada, South Africa and Mexico,
he said.  The fund targets annual returns of 20 percent to 25 percent,
Tey said. It charges fees equal to 1.5 percent of client assets
and 20 percent of investment profits, he said.  The fund is denominated in Singapore dollars and not the
U.S. currency because most of its clients, comprising of high-
net-worth people and private funds in China, expect the yuan to
continue strengthening against the U.S. dollar, he said.  Tey has teamed up with Wang Wei Dong, who helped set up
Bosera Asset Management Co., China’s third-largest money manager,
according to documents by Solaris Asset.  Exchange Background  Tey’s other partner at Solaris Asset is Jeffrey Wong, who
specializes in quantitative financial analysis and modeling and
had earlier stints with Singapore Exchange Ltd. and ASX Ltd.,
Australia’s main stock exchange operator. The fund’s trading
models are developed internally, Tey said.  Tey was most recently the head of product management and
institutions at Singapore Exchange, where he oversaw the growth
of the market for exchange traded funds in the city-state, he
said. Singapore Exchange is offering cash and stock worth A$8.4
billion ($8.3 billion) to buy ASX, the companies said today.  Citigroup Inc.  is Solaris Asset’s prime broker while Taiyo
Asset Management is the investment adviser providing trading
execution and post-trade services, according to the manager.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  