-- Texas Instruments' Sales Forecast Falls Short of Some Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2010-10-25T21:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/texas-instruments-reports-60-increase-in-profit.html
Texas Instruments Inc ., the second-
largest U.S. chipmaker, forecast smaller fourth-quarter sales
than some analysts had estimated, citing a slowdown in consumer-
electronics spending.  Revenue will be $3.36 billion to $3.64 billion, Dallas-
based Texas Instruments said today in a statement. The midpoint
of that range fell short of the $3.52 billion average estimate
of  analysts , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit
will be 59 cents to 67 cents a share, the company said, compared
with a projection of 63 cents.  Chief Executive Officer  Rich Templeton  said consumer demand
is cooling, hurting sales of computers and televisions, even
while industrial demand remains “especially strong.” Texas
Instruments is the biggest maker of analog chips, which go into
everything from barcode scanners to military radar systems,
making its earnings a bellwether of demand for electronics and
industrial machinery.  “It’s not tremendously disastrous, but it’s not phenomenal
either,” said  Adam Benjamin , a Boston-based analyst for
Jefferies & Co., who recommends buying the shares. “Business is
a little bit tough.”  Texas Instruments fell 20 cents to $28.78 in extended
trading following the announcement. The  shares , up 11 percent
this year, had closed at $28.98 earlier today on the New York
Stock Exchange.  Third-quarter  net income  rose 60 percent to $859 million,
or 71 cents a share, from $538 million, or 42 cents, a year
earlier. Sales climbed 30 percent to $3.74 billion.  Chinese Factory  The company is trying to capture market share from rivals by
lowering the cost of its production and expanding overseas. On
Oct. 15,  Texas Instruments  announced the purchase of a plant in
China, letting it make semiconductors there for the first time.
Texas Instruments also has bought plants and equipment in Japan
and is beefing up a factory in Richardson, Texas, near its
headquarters.  On Sept. 9, the company lowered the upper end of its
forecast range for third-quarter profit and sales, citing
weaker-than-expected demand for parts used in personal computers
and televisions. That raised concerns that manufacturers had a
glut of inventory.  Templeton is getting the company out of the market for
digital signal processors that manage radio functions in mobile
phones -- an area Texas Instruments once dominated. He’s
focusing instead on analog chips, where the company expects to
win more orders and grow faster, Templeton has said.  Texas Instruments ranked second to Santa Clara, California-
based  Intel Corp.  among U.S. chipmakers last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  