-- Exchange Rates Are `No Panacea' to Spur Global Growth, RBA's Stevens Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-25T00:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/exchange-rates-are-no-panacea-to-spur-global-growth-rba-s-stevens-says.html
Reserve Bank of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said flexible exchange rates alone won’t spur
growth or rebalance the global economy, even as stronger
currencies in emerging Asian nations such as China would help
cool asset prices.  “We should be realistic about how much difference exchange
rate flexibility would make to the unbalanced nature of growth
in the global economy,” Stevens said in prepared remarks in
Canberra today. “It is definitely part of the answer (and it is
surely in the interests of the countries with closely managed
rates to accept more flexibility), but it is no panacea.”  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers vowed Oct.
23 to avoid weakening their currencies to lift exports as they
sought to ease trade tensions. Asian economies have led the
global recovery, and the International Monetary Fund warned last
week that prolonged low interest rates in the U.S. and other
advanced nations would prompt capital flows into the region that
will increase pressures on goods and asset prices.  “A number of Asian countries have been experiencing
worrying increases in property prices,” Stevens, who didn’t
address Australian monetary policy in today’s speech, said at
the Ai Group National Forum in Parliament House. “Allowing
exchange rates to appreciate more quickly would probably help to
dampen increases in asset prices.”  The IMF said in the Oct. 21 report that China’s currency
remains “substantially below” a level consistent with medium-
term economic fundamentals. China kept the yuan stable at about
6.83 per dollar from July 2008 to June 2010, after allowing it
to gain 21 percent in the previous three years.  The Australian dollar breached parity with the U.S.
currency on Oct. 15 and has had the second-biggest advance this
year after the yen among its 16 most-traded counterparts.  “My view is that more flexibility of exchange rates in key
emerging countries in Asia -- including China, but not only
China  -- would be part of a more balanced outcome,” Stevens
said today. “But exchange rate flexibility alone isn’t enough.
Changes in exchange rates don’t themselves create global growth,
they only re-distribute it.”  Unless changes in currencies are accompanied by more global
demand, “we would not have solved the problem of excess
capacity, we would only have relocated it,” Stevens said.  The governor described the global recovery as “very much a
two-speed one” and that the U.S. is seeing “a very troubling”
increase in the duration of unemployment, which doesn’t bode
well for that nation’s future growth.  Fed’s Easing  Federal Reserve officials are considering additional
monetary stimulus as the U.S. economy loses traction and the
unemployment rate held at 9.6 percent last month.  “This difference in performance between large parts of the
emerging world and the core of what we could call the
‘established’ world of industrialized economies leaves the
global economy poised at a critical juncture,” Stevens said.  Stevens used part of his speech to recount how Australia’s
exports have shifted to China and other nations in emerging Asia
in the past decade, while shipments to the U.S. and Japan have
dropped as a percentage of the total.  “We ought to take more than a passing interest in events
in our region, and in the conduct of economic policies in our
region, and not just those in the countries that once completely
dominated the global economy, but no longer do,” he said.  Stevens also predicted Australia’s per capita gross
domestic product is likely to be 15 percent higher in real terms
by 2020 and that there would probably be another “couple of
million” people working, compared with today’s 11.3 million.  RBA Pauses  Minutes of the RBA’s Oct. 5 meeting showed policy makers
expected the currency’s appreciation would help temper near-term
inflation as the biggest mining investment boom in more than a
century intensifies. A report two days after the meeting showed
full-time employment in the past two months gained the most
since 1988.  Australia’s annual inflation probably cooled to within the
central bank’s target range last quarter, according to the
median  estimate  of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The consumer price index rose 0.8 percent in the quarter
for an annual gain of 2.9 percent, the survey showed. The Bureau
of Statistics releases the figures on Oct. 27.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Canberra at 
 heath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  