-- Mexico's Market-Friendly Peso May Be at Risk, Ex-Central Banker Ortiz Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2010-10-25T21:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/mexico-s-market-friendly-peso-may-be-at-risk-ex-central-banker-ortiz-says.html
Mexico’s peso is at risk of becoming
overvalued because market-friendly trading rules may attract
investors as other countries take steps to curb currency
appreciation, said former central bank Governor  Guillermo Ortiz .  The currency has gained 6.8 percent since the end of August
and 26 percent since touching a low of 15.5667 pesos on March 9,
2009. An overvalued peso would hurt Mexico’s competitiveness and
could cause “bubbles everywhere,” Ortiz said yesterday at a
conference in Toluca, Mexico.  “The risk is that we’re the only ones with no barriers to
entry, and they could flood us more and the currency could
appreciate to excessive levels,” Ortiz said.  Developing countries are intervening in currency markets to
protect their economies against inflows of capital in what
Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has called a “currency
war.”  Mantega said Oct. 18 that his country will increase a tax
on foreigners’ investments in fixed-income securities to 6
percent from 4 percent. Bank of Thailand Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said Oct. 21 the central bank is studying steps
to curb excessive volatility in the baht.  Mexico’s open markets have worked well, Ortiz said. Still,
with other countries taking steps to exert control over their
currencies, Ortiz said Mexico might need to follow suit.  “We shouldn’t be the only ones that are left out,” he
said.  The Mexican currency declined 0.2 percent to 12.3612 pesos
per U.S. dollar at 5:00 p.m. New York time.  U.S. Is Vulnerable  The biggest threat to Mexico’s economy is a “double-dip”
recession in the U.S., Ortiz said, adding that such an outcome
is unlikely. Mexico’s economic recovery is being driven “almost
exclusively” by external demand, he said.  Mexico’s gross domestic product will grow 4.65 percent in
2010, according to a survey of economists by Citigroup Inc.’s
local Banamex unit. Latin America’s second-biggest economy
contracted 6.5 percent in 2009, the steepest slump since the
1930s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Toluca, Mexico at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  