-- Exports Rise to Highest in Six Months as Demand for Indian Goods Revives
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2010-10-25T13:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/exports-rise-to-highest-in-six-months-as-demand-for-indian-goods-revives.html
India’s merchandise exports rose in
September to the highest in six months on increasing demand for
the nation’s engineering goods, jewelry and textiles.  Overseas  shipments  rose 23.2 percent from a year earlier to
$18.02 billion,  Rahul Khullar , the top bureaucrat in the
commerce ministry, told reporters in New Delhi today. Imports
grew 26.1 percent to $27.14 billion. The trade deficit narrowed
to $9.12 billion in September, the lowest in a year, compared
with $13.04 billion in the previous month.  “Finally on the exports front you are seeing a rebound,
especially in engineering goods, textiles and chemicals,”
Khullar said. Merchandise exports make up a fifth of the
nation’s $1.3 trillion economy.  Rising overseas sales may help India avoid selling the
rupee to lift exports after the Group of 20 finance chiefs over
the weekend vowed to avoid weakening currencies to push overseas
sales. It may also aid Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
complement local demand and boost economic growth to exceed 9
percent in the year starting April 1.  Reserve Bank of India  Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said
on Oct. 14 policy makers may buy dollars to combat appreciation
that hurts exporters. The Indian currency has advanced 6.1
percent in the past three months.  Government Stimulus  Finance ministers and central bankers ended talks in South
Korea Oct. 23 foreswearing “competitive devaluation” to calm
fears of a trade war stemming from using cheaper currencies to
spur growth. Finance minister  Pranab Mukherjee  told Bloomberg
Television in an interview Oct. 22 that he is not in favor of
“competitive devaluation”.  The Indian currency is not yet at a stage where it could be
termed “volatile,” Trade Minister  Anand Sharma  said today.
“The country is on track to meet its export growth target of
close to 15 percent” for fiscal year 2010-11, he said.  The acceleration in export growth is because of government
stimulus measures for exports and high agricultural commodity
prices, Khullar said. Gems and jewelry shipments in September
rose 15 percent while engineering goods exports gained 56
percent, petroleum products gained 24.4 percent he said.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , the nation’s biggest carmaker,
reported exports gained 9.8 percent in September, while  Tata
Motors Ltd . said overseas sales expanded 77 percent in the
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 