-- Favre's Double Foot Fracture Puts Run of 291 Straight Starts in Jeopardy
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/favre-s-double-foot-fracture-puts-run-of-291-straight-starts-in-jeopardy.html
Brett Favre ’s streak of 291 straight
starts -- a National Football League record -- is in jeopardy
because of two fractures in his left foot.  The Minnesota Vikings’ 41-year-old quarterback was injured
two nights ago during a 28-24 loss to the Green Bay Packers.
Favre is wearing a walking boot and his status for the Vikings’
Oct. 31 game against the New England Patriots hasn’t been
determined, coach  Brad Childress  said.  “You can’t put a guy that is a sitting duck out there,”
Childress said during a news conference. “His competitive
nature I am sure will come into it. A lot of times you have to
protect people from themselves. I’m taking it day by day.”  Favre has a stress fracture and an avulsion fracture, which
is caused by a tendon or ligament pulling off a piece of bone.
He won’t require surgery.  “Once he is functional, he can play,” Childress said.  Favre has completed 58 percent of his passes for 1,191
yards through six games season, his second with the Vikings and
20th in the NFL. He’s thrown seven touchdown passes and 10
interceptions, including three two nights ago against the
division-rival Packers, with whom he spent 16 seasons.  The 11-time Pro Bowl selection hasn’t missed a start since
1992 and has made 314 consecutive appearances including playoff
games. Favre’s availability this week will depend on how well
he’s able to move, Childress said.  “He doesn’t move like a 20-year-ago Brett,” the coach
said of the three-time NFL Most Valuable Player. “You got to be
able to move and shuffle and do those kinds of things in the
pocket.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net 
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 