-- Fed-Induced Rally Makes Riskiest Debt Priciest: Credit Markets
-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 2010-10-26T16:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/fed-induced-junk-rally-makes-riskiest-debt-most-expensive-credit-markets.html
The lowest-rated junk bonds are the
most expensive corporate debt following a Federal Reserve-
induced rally in high-risk assets, adding to concern fixed-
income securities are overvalued.  The extra yield investors demand to hold global bonds rated
CCC or lower instead of government debt is about 10.1 percentage
points, or 3.4 percentage points narrower than the average over
the past 12 years, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. Debt with B ratings is the only other part of the
market trading tighter than its historical average.  Record-low interest rates in the  U.S.  and Europe, and
speculation the Fed will purchase more bonds to keep the economy
from faltering, are encouraging debt investors to take on
riskier securities and stoking concern prices are rising to
unsustainable levels. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised its
clients to avoid adding CCC rated debt in a report published
Oct. 22 because of slower economic growth.  “With CCCs even more richly valued than historically, the
risk of poor relative returns in the future would appear to be
high,” said  Martin Fridson , a global credit strategist in New
York at BNP Paribas Asset Management, who began his career as a
corporate debt trader in 1976. “You have to be conscious of
that risk of underperformance. Having relatively rich valuations
puts investors at a handicap.”  Issuance Surge  The rally in the lowest-rated company bonds has sparked a
surge in issuance.  MGM Resorts International , the biggest casino
operator on the Las Vegas Strip, Energy Future Holdings Corp.
and other companies have sold $6.5 billion of bonds this month
rated CCC+ or lower by Standard & Poor’s or Caa1 or lower by
Moody’s Investors Service, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That’s the most since April for debt S&P deems “currently
vulnerable to nonpayment” and “is dependent upon favorable
business, financial, and economic conditions for the obligor to
meet its financial commitment.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt fell 1 basis point to 166 basis points, or 1.66
percentage point, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. That’s a decline of 7 basis
points this month. Yields averaged 3.43 percent from 3.45
percent on Oct. 22.  Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets,
plans a benchmark sale of notes, according to a person familiar
with the offering. Benchmark issues are typically at least $500
million.  The five-year debt, set to be sold as soon as today, may
yield about 230 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  50-Year Debt  Goldman Sachs plans to sell $1.3 billion of 50-year debt at
a 6.125 percent yield as soon as today, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The offering may include bonds
with a face value of $25 that can’t be called for five years,
the person said.  The cost of protecting bonds from default in the U.S. held
near the lowest level since May. The Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 0.1 basis point to a mid-price of 93.5 basis points as
of 12:21 p.m. in New York, according to index administrator
Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, ended May 3 at 90.5 basis
points.  Bondholder Protection  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Goldman Sachs said bonds rated CCC+ and lower by S&P or
Caa1 by Moody’s were “expensive” given expectations for
economic growth, and recommended clients buy higher-ranked
company bonds instead.  John Lipsky , the No. 2 official at the
International Monetary Fund, said last month that global
economic growth in the second half of the year will fall short
of the fund’s forecast of 3.75 percent on an annualized basis.  “You don’t want to stand in the way of the search for
yield,” said  Alberto Gallo , a global credit strategist at
Goldman Sachs in New York. “But on the other hand it is a very
volatile part of the market. And it can be particularly
sensitive to a further slowdown in the economy.”  Record Low  Yields on U.S. investment-grade debt fell to a record low
of 3.55 percent this month, the lowest borrowing cost on record
in data going back to October 1986, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. For CCC bonds and lower, yields
dropped to 11.63 percent yesterday, the lowest level since
November 2007, the data show.  Average spreads on the lowest-rated debt have narrowed from
as high as 1,183 basis points in June and a record 4,560 basis
points in December 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. Debt in the B range pays a spread of 602 basis
points, or 31 basis points less than their average over the past
12 years. Investment-grade securities pay a premium of 8 basis
points to 30 basis points over their longer-term averages.  Investors are paying ever-higher prices on speculation the
money the Fed injects into the economy will allow the neediest
borrowers to refinance the more than $815 billion of loans and
bonds that Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimates comes due
through 2015.  JPMorgan analysts predicted in a report this month that the
high-yield default rate for bonds will fall to 1.4 percent next
year, compared with the 6 percent implied by bond yields.  MGM Sale  Of the junk-rated bonds sold in the U.S. this year, 16.2
percent are from issuers rated CCC by at least one ratings firm,
up from 10.7 percent in 2009, according to JPMorgan. That’s
still below the 25 percent average over the five years ended in
2008, the firm said in an Oct. 22 report.  MGM  sold $500 million of six-year notes at a yield of 10.25
percent to repay lenders under its senior credit facility,
Bloomberg data show. Covenant Review LLC, a debt research firm,
said in a report that Las Vegas-based MGM is offering
investment-grade type covenants even though the bonds will be
junk-rated, including no restrictions on the company’s ability
to incur debt, make dividends, or sell assets.  The offering, along with the sale of stock and certain
assets, should address all of MGM’s bank debt maturities in
2011, according to KDP Investment Advisors Inc., a Montpelier,
Vermont-based debt research firm.  KKR, TPG  Dallas-based  Energy Future , known as TXU Corp. before KKR &
Co. and TPG Capital paid $43.2 billion for the electricity
provider in 2007, raised $350 million on Oct. 15 in an offering
of second-lien notes due in April 2021 yielding 15 percent.  Securities rated CCC and lower have returned 16.8 percent
this year, after gaining 101 percent in 2009. This year’s
returns compare with 15.5 percent for debt ranked BB and 12.9
percent for B bonds. Debt rated BBB has gained 11.6 percent, the
best among investment-grade bonds.  “We’re in a scenario where there is a desperate need for
yield,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed-income at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in London. “Corporates are almost seen as a
quasi-safe haven. It won’t be the case if the economy turns
negative, double dip-like.”  The lowest-rated bonds are “quite rich” by historical
standards partly because hedge funds that rely on debt to boost
returns have become bigger players in the market and don’t care
as much whether the spread compensates for default risk,
according to Fridson.  “I had thought the downturn would either blow away some of
the leveraged players or at least induce them to tighten up
their risk management,” he said. “That has not happened.”  Lack of Alternatives  Money managers are piling into the riskiest junk bonds and
taking ever-lower yields and spreads because they face a lack of
alternatives. Investments on everything from government debt to
corporate bonds are paying some of the lowest coupons on record
as the Fed holds its  target overnight lending rate  between banks
in a range of zero percent to 0.25 percent since December 2008.
The European Central Bank’s main refinancing rate has been at a
record-low 1 percent since May 2009.  The Treasury sold $10 billion of five-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities at a negative yield for the first
time at a U.S. debt auction as investors bet the Fed will be
successful in sparking inflation.  The securities drew a yield of negative 0.55 percent, the
same as the average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 7 of
the Fed’s 18 primary dealers. The sale was a reopening of an $11
billion offering in April.  “The low government yield environment is squeezing
investors into riskier assets, which I suppose is partly what
the Fed wants,”  Jim Reid , head of fundamental strategy at
Deutsche Bank in London, said in an Oct. 25 note to clients.
“It remains a gamble though, as if it doesn’t feed into the
economy it will eventually leave a bigger gap between asset
prices and the fundamentals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  