-- OTC Derivatives May Face Curbs as FSB Seeks Central Clearing
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-10-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/financial-stability-board-threatens-trading-limits-for-some-derivatives.html
Regulators should consider limiting
trades in some derivatives that aren’t centrally cleared in a
bid to cut excessive risk, the  Financial Stability Board  said.  Authorities may “limit or restrict trading in OTC
derivatives products that are suitable for clearing but not
centrally cleared,” the FSB said in a report on the over-the-
counter derivatives market yesterday.  Restrictions may be needed to enforce an accord by the
Group of 20 countries that required central clearing of
standardized OTC derivative contracts by end of 2012, the FSB
said.  G-20 nations have sought to limit over-the-counter
derivatives, including credit-default swaps, saying the trades
helped fuel the financial crisis. Establishing clearinghouses
and transparent trading systems are the main components of the
new rules. The U.S. and 27-nation European Union have proposed
measures to limit risks in derivatives trades.  Global regulators should work to increase the number of
types of derivative contracts that are standardized and required
to go through clearing houses, the FSB said. Coercion should be
reserved for derivatives that are “suitable” for clearing.  Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the risk that a trader defaults on a deal.  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law by President
 Barack Obama  in July, mandates that most interest-rate, credit-
default and other swaps be processed by central counterparties
and traded on exchanges or similar systems.  EU initiatives  Under two separate EU initiatives announced last month,
frequent traders of some OTC derivatives in Europe will have to
use central clearinghouses to close sales, and naked short-
sellers would be required to submit proof they can access
underlying securities to settle trades  Pressure from regulators since 2005 for the standardization
of CDS had led to “greater operational efficiencies” including
use of “risk-reducing” measures such as central clearing, the
FSB said.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s ICE Trust, the largest
credit-default swap clearinghouse, has been clearing trades
since last year and processed contracts worth a gross notional
$12 trillion as of Sept. 22. LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and  CME
Group Inc.  also offer credit swap clearing.  The FSB was set up by the G-20 last year to oversee the
work of groups setting international standards. It replaced the
Financial Stability Forum, a think tank with no formal role that
was created in 1999 after the Asian financial crisis.  A derivative is a contract between two parties linked to
the future value or status of the underlying asset to which it
refers, including the development of interest rates or prices of
commodities such as oil or wheat. An OTC derivative is one
privately negotiated between two parties, rather than being
traded on an exchange.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 