-- Fischer Keeps Central Bank Rate at 2% as Strengthening Shekel Hurt Exports
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-10-25T18:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/fischer-keeps-central-bank-rate-at-2-as-strengthening-shekel-hurt-exports.html
The Bank of Israel left the
country’s  benchmark interest rate  unchanged as it seeks to avoid
fueling gains in the shekel driven by lower borrowing costs in
the U.S. and Europe.  Governor  Stanley Fischer  held the rate at 2 percent, the
Jerusalem-based central bank said today. Seventeen of the 19
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg had forecast the decision,
while two expected a quarter-point increase. The central bank
also announced new directives for banks aimed at slowing the
rate of increase in housing prices.  Fischer has raised rates by 1.5 percentage points in the
past 14 months as the economy recovers from a recession, helping
push the shekel up more than 5 percent against the dollar even
as the Bank of Israel bought foreign currency to cap its gain.
While inflation has remained within the target range since
April, housing prices have outpaced most other categories.  “The weakening of the dollar in world markets and the
governor’s concern that another rate increase would further
strengthen the shekel was the deciding factor,”  Dan Ron , chief
investment officer of Tel Aviv-based Tachlit Investment House,
said in an e-mail. “The interest rate is a tool for dealing
with inflation, but not when it is due to a rise in housing
prices.”  The shekel added 0.7 percent to 3.6086 per dollar at 7:30
p.m. in Tel Aviv, heading for its biggest gain in almost a
month. The currency was little changed after the rate
announcement.  Record Inflows  Near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and Europe have
spurred record inflows into Israel and other countries where
rates are higher, driving gains in currencies and undermining
exports. The Bank of Israel has been buying foreign currency
since March 2008 to moderate the effect, more than doubling
 reserves  to $66.3 billion by the end of September.  Growth next year may slow to 3.8 percent from 4 percent
this year on weak demand in key export markets including the
U.S., the bank said on Sept. 28. Israel posted its biggest  trade
deficit  for almost two years last month as exports declined.  “Economic data indicate some slowing of the rate of growth
of output, mainly reflecting a fall in exports,” the bank said
today in a statement accompanying the rate decision. It cited
“increased uncertainty regarding the sustainability of growth
deriving from uncertainty about global demand.”  The  inflation rate  jumped to 2.4 percent last month from a
three-year low of 1.8 percent in July and August, driven by food
and housing costs. The target range is 1 percent to 3 percent.  Curbing House Prices  The Bank of Israel’s regulatory branch said today that it
will require lenders to make higher provisions against some
categories of home loans. It said the measure aims to moderate
house price increases of 9.7 percent this year and 19 percent in
the past 12 months, and to curb overall inflation.  Fischer, who currently has sole responsibility for setting
interest rates, was appointed for a second term as governor in
March. He is in the process of implementing a new law that calls
for the creation of a six-member Monetary Policy Committee to
make rate decisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  