-- Florida Foreclosures Still on Hold as Banks Say They've Resumed
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/florida-foreclosures-still-on-hold-as-banks-say-they-ve-resumed-seizures.html
Banks called off about half of their
foreclosure hearings in three Florida cities this week and more
than 60 percent of their auctions set for yesterday in one
county, according to court records and personnel.  The canceled foreclosure-judgment hearings and sales in
Florida, site of the third-highest foreclosure rate in the U.S.,
came as  Bank of America Corp.  and  Ally Financial Inc.  said
they’re resuming efforts to seize homes.  Court administrators said rules mandating notifications for
homeowners mean that foreclosures won’t resume in earnest for at
least a month.  Bank of America and Ally Financial’s GMAC Mortgage unit
said they were moving to complete pending foreclosures following
complaints that home seizures nationwide were based on faulty
documentation. Attorneys general in all 50 states, as well as
federal agencies including the U.S. Department of Justice, are
investigating.  GMAC said it is reviewing foreclosure cases that
potentially have defective affidavits in the 23 states that use
judicial proceedings for foreclosures, including Florida. If
there are problems, they will be fixed and the cases then
allowed to proceed, said  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for GMAC. Any
case going to foreclosure sale in non-judicial states will also
be reviewed, she said in an interview.  ‘Ongoing Process’  “It’s an ongoing process and we expect the majority will
be completed by the end of the year,” Proia said.  Bank of America, the largest U.S. bank by assets, has
completed a review of its foreclosure procedures and will
“shortly” begin resubmitting affidavits in judicial
foreclosure cases, spokesman  Dan Frahm  said yesterday in a
statement.  “We are being very deliberate as we restart the affidavit
process with new steps and controls,” he said.  In Florida’s Sixth Judicial Circuit, which includes St.
Petersburg, banks had canceled 176 out of 372 hearings this week
in three cities at which they were scheduled to seek court
approval for home foreclosures, according to circuit spokesman
Ron Stuart. Those figures include 54 cancellations out of 149
summary-judgment hearings scheduled for two days this week in
St. Petersburg.  Palm Beach Banks  In Palm Beach County, banks had canceled 139 out of 213
foreclosure auctions scheduled for yesterday, according to court
records.  Citigroup Inc. , Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Bank of America were among those listed as canceling the
sales. So far this month, about 51 percent of auctions in the
county have been canceled, according to court records. That’s up
from 30 percent in September.  Broward County, which includes Fort Lauderdale, continues
to see a slowdown in foreclosure-judgment hearings. Before banks
moved to halt foreclosures and evictions, judges were approving
150 to 200 foreclosures a day, said  Victor Tobin , the chief
judge for the 17th Judicial Circuit. There are about 50 such
hearings scheduled for today, the judge said.  “It’s going to remain probably slow for a little bit of
time,” Tobin said.  The cancelations have made it tougher for Florida courts to
work through their backlog of cases, judges and lawyers said.
The state has the third-highest foreclosure rate in the country
as of Oct. 1, according to RealtyTrac Inc.  “Those numbers in Dade City indicate there are still large
numbers of cancellations,” said Ron Stuart, a spokesman for
Florida’s Sixth Judicial Circuit.  Foreclosure-Judgment  For the foreclosure-judgment hearings that are canceled
this week, banks are at least a month away from rescheduling
them. That’s because a hearing can be scheduled no earlier than
25 days in advance under the state’s rules for legal
proceedings, said Rick Melendi, a chief deputy court
administrator for the 13th Judicial Circuit in Tampa.  “With the 25-day requirement, you’re not looking until
probably November sometime,” he said.  U.S. banking regulators, meanwhile, are examining mortgage
lenders’ procedures to see if they are improperly foreclosing on
homes, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday.  “We are looking intensively at the firms’ policies,
procedures, and internal controls related to foreclosures and
seeking to determine whether systematic weaknesses are leading
to improper foreclosures,” Bernanke said at a housing
conference in Arlington, Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 