-- Ford May Post Record Third-Quarter Profit on `Virtuous Circle'
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2010-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/ford-may-post-record-third-quarter-profit-on-virtuous-circle-.html
Ford Motor Co.  may report the
biggest third-quarter profit in its 107-year history tomorrow as
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s overhaul of the model
lineup boosts the company’s share of the U.S. auto market.  Net income was $1.37 billion, based on the average
 projection  of five analysts, up from $997 million and adjusted
per-share earnings of 26 cents a year earlier.  Estimates  for
adjusted quarterly profit have risen to 38 cents a share, the
average of 12 analysts, from about 34 cents a month ago.  The second-largest U.S. automaker won 15.1 percent of U.S.
light-vehicle sales in the quarter, versus 13 percent two years
earlier, according to Autodata Corp. Buyers are paying more on
average for Ford vehicles as the company introduces new models
like the Fiesta subcompact and features such as voice-activated
phone and stereo controls.  “It’s a virtuous circle of the right products, targeted at
the right customers with the right options,” said  Brian Johnson , a Barclays Capital analyst, who rates the shares
“overweight.”  Ford’s previous record for third-quarter  net income  was
$1.13 billion in 1997.  The three-month period through September was Ford’s sixth
straight profitable quarter. From 2006 through 2008, its  losses 
totaled $30.1 billion as a collapse in sport-utility vehicle
sales was followed by the most severe recession since the Great
Depression.  Mulally, who arrived from  Boeing Co.  in September 2006, has
revived Ford by boosting quality and fuel economy in its
namesake brand.  Market Share Gains  Ford was the only major U.S. automaker to avoid bankruptcy
in 2009 and is headed toward a second straight year of share
gains in its home market amid the worst  auto  sales since 1982.
The company hasn’t increased market share in consecutive years
since 1992 and 1993. Ford said it gained ground among young
buyers and consumers on the West Coast and in the Northeast,
areas that typically favor Asian and European brands.  “We’re not buying share at the bottom of the food chain,”
 George Pipas , Ford’s sales analyst, said in an interview.
“People buying Fords today are generally more educated and
affluent and they want and are willing to pay for nicer Fords.”  This year, Ford had 10.8 percent of the West Coast market
for individual buyers, excluding fleet customers, up 0.9 point,
and its share rose the same amount in the Northeast to 10.4
percent, Pipas said. In the Great Lakes region, which includes
Detroit, Ford has a market share of 19.2 percent, up 2.3
percentage points this year, Pipas said. In the Central region,
including Texas, Ford has 18.1 percent of the market, up 1.7
points.  Young Consumers  Ford has made the biggest gains among the youngest and
oldest buyers, Pipas said. Through August, Ford had 12 percent
of the market for 18- to 24-year-olds, up 1.4 points and scored
the same gain to 17.7 percent of the market for buyers over age
75, its largest cohort, Pipas said. Ford’s  lowest share  is with
25- to 34-year-olds at 11 percent, up 1 point, Pipas said,
citing data from researcher R.L. Polk & Co.  Ford boosted profit by cutting costs by $10 billion since
2005 and limiting factory output so it doesn’t have to discount
its cars, Barclays’s Johnson said.  It also boosted  revenue  per-model by cutting discounts by
23 percent since 2008, according to Autodata, a researcher based
in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey. Buyers paid an average of $30,636
per model in September, up 10 percent from five years ago,
Edmunds.com, a Santa Monica, California-based auto-pricing
website, estimates.  “Ford was among the first to recognize that making money
is more important than moving the metal,” Johnson said.
“There’s now a general level of pricing discipline across
Detroit, which is leading to higher average transaction
 prices .”  Fiesta Prices  The Fiesta subcompact, which went on sale in the U.S. in
June, is fetching $3,000 to $4,000 above its $13,995 base price
because buyers are ordering options such as leather seats, Pipas
said. The Fiesta is commanding a higher average price than  Honda
Motor Co.’s  Civic and  Toyota Motor Corp.’s  Corolla, Ford said.  “They’ve had a series of successful new products,” said
 Jessica Caldwell , director of pricing and industry analysis for
Santa Monica, California-based Edmunds. “When you consistently
come out with good products, then people start to believe you’ve
really changed.”  Redesigned versions of the Focus compact car and Explorer
SUV coming next year should also generate higher prices, Johnson
said. That could offset discounts Ford may have to put on its F-
series pickups while  General Motors Co.  and Chrysler Group LLC
try to sell down bloated truck inventories, he said.  In the second quarter, higher net prices added $1.1 billion
to Ford’s pretax automotive income.  ‘Revenue Story’  “At this stage, we see Ford as a revenue story much more
than a cost story,”  Adam Jonas , an analyst for Morgan Stanley,
wrote in an Oct. 4 note. He rates Ford “overweight” and said
the stock may reach $20 in the next 12 months. “We believe the
shares do not properly discount a top-line set to grow 42
percent by 2015.”  Ford  shares  had their highest close this year at $14.46 on
April 26, the day before the company reported a $2.1 billion
first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates. Ford rose 14
cents, or 1 percent, to $13.95 on Oct. 22 and has gained 40
percent this year.  Of 17  analysts  covering Ford, 11 recommend buying the
shares, 5 advise holding and 1 recommends selling, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. In January 2009, 1 analyst had a buy
rating while 8 said hold and 3 said sell.  “ Investors  see its time to get back in because everybody
recognizes they’ve done a great job,” said  Mirko Mikelic ,
senior portfolio manager at Fifth Third Asset Management in
Grand Rapids, Michigan, who owns Ford debt and is considering
purchasing shares. “We’re definitely more positive on Ford than
in the past. We’d like to see two more solid quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  