-- Four Big Banks Should Plan to Bail Out of Europe: Matthew Lynn
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 2010-10-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/four-banks-should-plan-to-bail-out-of-europe-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
Forget terrorism, cyber-warfare and
deadly viruses. Some European countries face a more imminent
threat to their national security: Big banks could bring down
the economy if they failed.  Right now, regulators are approaching it in different ways.
The British may split up retail and investment banking. The
Swiss are looking at almost doubling the recommended bank-
capital requirements.  Not surprisingly, the banks are fighting those proposals
and claiming that such measures would cripple their ability to
compete in the global market.  There is a simpler solution, and one that would be fairer
to the banks that are too big and the nations that are too small
to host them: The lenders should move to a bigger country. Four
banks in particular --  HSBC Holdings Plc , Barclays Plc,  UBS AG 
and  Credit Suisse Group AG  -- should be making plans to leave  Europe . An amicable divorce would be better for both sides.  There is no question that governments and financial
regulators are right to be giving some serious thought to the
issue of banks that have become too big to fail.  The near-collapse of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  during the credit crunch left the
U.K. with a huge bill. In  Switzerland , UBS had to be bailed out.  Irish Excesses  In Iceland, the meltdown of the financial industry has just
about bankrupted the country. Ireland is still paying the price
for the excesses of its banks.  Both the U.K. and Switzerland are aware that the collapse
of HSBC or Credit Suisse would easily turn them into another
Iceland or Ireland. It would be irresponsible not to try and
prevent it. It is as much of a threat to national security as
the  Soviet Union  was at the height of the  Cold War .  So how should they deal with that? True, better regulation
is part of the answer. You need a lot of faith in the ability of
the supervisors, however, to feel confident they can spot every
crazy risk the bankers might be taking. In reality, even the
board may not really know what liabilities have been tucked away
in some complex derivatives contract, and how they might blow up
one day. It is impossible for outsiders to be certain.  The U.K. has set up a commission headed by John Vickers, an
Oxford University professor and former Bank of  England 
economist, to look at the possible separation of retail and
investment banking, as well as banning proprietary trading.  Swiss Proposal  In Switzerland, a government panel has recommended the
country’s biggest banks should hold total capital equal to at
least 19 percent of their assets. That’s almost twice the 10.5
percent level that the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
recommended last month.  They are both perfectly sensible proposals. Splitting up
the banks would make the system safer. The investment arms take
most of the risks. Hive them off into separate units, and if
they go bust, it doesn’t matter much to the rest of the economy.  Likewise, the more capital a bank holds, the safer it is.
If there are big losses on an investment, then the money is
there to cover them. It needn’t be catastrophic.  HSBC and Barclays have both said they may relocate overseas
if the U.K. moves to split them up.  In reality, both the banks and the regulators are getting
this issue upside down.  Time to Move  The problem isn’t that the banks are too big. It is that
they have grown too large for the economies of the nations where
they happen to be based. And once you put it like that, the
solution is obvious. Barclays and HSBC should leave the U.K.,
while UBS and Credit Suisse should leave Switzerland.  It is rough on British or Swiss taxpayers that they have to
shoulder the responsibility for huge banks that don’t have much
to do with their own economy -- and most of whose staff are far
better paid than the average taxpayer in either country.  And yet, it is hardly fair on the banks to be placed at
such a disadvantage to their main competitors. Obviously, it’s
going to be impossible for HSBC and Barclays to keep up with  Citigroup Inc . and  BNP Paribas  SA if they have to split their
businesses. And it will be tough for Credit Suisse to stay at
the top of its industry if it has to hold twice as much capital
as its international competitors. Capital, after all, is the raw
material of banking. The less you have of it to play with, the
less you will be able to do.  So why not just move elsewhere? That way, taxpayers are
freed of the potential burden of a bailout, and the banks are
released from rules that make it impossible for them to compete.  There is nothing that unusual about a bank moving when
regulatory regimes change. HSBC has already done it before: In
1993, it  moved its head office  from  Hong Kong  to  London , and the  Bank of England  became its lead regulator.  Where would the big banks go?  China  or the U.S. would be
possibilities. Of course, the U.S. might not want another too-
big-to-fail bank on its soil. But they would bring much-needed
jobs and  tax revenue . In the end, it is for the banks and local
authorities to decide.  But as any marriage counselor would concede, sometimes a
relationship has been outgrown by both sides. And when it has,
it is simply better to move on.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  