-- Lagarde Says Pension Strikes Cost France as Much as $563 Million a Day
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-25T13:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/french-labor-protests-cost-economy-up-to-285-million-a-day-lagarde-says.html
Strikes against President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s plan to raise the retirement age are costing the
French economy between 200 million and 400 million euros ($280-
$561 million) a day, Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said.  “Beyond the costs, which are difficult to measure, it
damages the attractiveness of France,” Lagarde said in an
interview on Europe1 radio. France had a gross domestic product
of 1.91 trillion euros in 2009. The national statistics office
Insee reports third-quarter GDP on Nov. 12.  All of France’s oil depots are now open as police dismantle
barricades, the refiners’ group  Union Francaise des Industries
Petrolieres  said today. Still, about a quarter of the country’s
12,300 service stations are dry, the UFIP said. About four-
fifths of France’s high-speed trains will run today, the
national railroad said.  The French Senate on Oct. 22 passed Sarkozy’s pensions
overhaul bill, which increases the minimum retirement age to 62
from 60, and the age for a full pension to 67 from 65. Members
of the lower National Assembly and the Senate meet today to iron
out differences in their versions of the bill. The two houses
are set to complete passage of the bill by Oct. 27.  Unions called for a fifth day of strikes on Oct. 28 and
demonstrations on Nov. 6. The government has repeatedly said it
won’t back down on pushing through the bill, which it says is
needed to stem losses in the state retirement system.  One out of 10 pensions is paid for through government
borrowing and the state pension fund will lose 10.7 billion
euros this year. The shortfall will reach 50 billion euros in
2020 without a change in policy, the Budget Ministry says.  Fuel Shortfalls  Lagarde said her ministry has inspected 2,000 service
stations to ensure they weren’t using shortages to raise prices,
and has fined 40 of them.  “The vast majority are responsible and some are even
eating into their own margins, but there are always a few that
try to abuse” the system, she said.  The French government says there is enough fuel in the
country’s 219 fuel depots to last several weeks, and that
shortages have been caused by motorists rushing to fill up.  France’s 11 active refineries had been strike for about 10
days. Workers at the Reichstett refinery in Eastern France,
operated by Petroplus, today voted to return to work, Agence
France Presse reported. Exxon Mobil Corp. said today that its
Fos refinery is managing to produce at minimal rates.  France has not notified the International Energy Agency of
any reduction in oil stockpiles below the minimum requirement of
90 days worth of supply, IEA Executive Director  Nobuo Tanaka 
said today in Moscow.  Oil Imports  French imports of fuel rose to 100,000 tons a day from an
average 20,000 to 25,000 tons in normal days,  Jean-Louis Schilansky , head of the UFIP said Oct. 23.  The  port of Marseille , which supplies Fos and Lavera,
France’s main oil terminals, has been blocked for 29 days
because of a strike over the reorganization of the port that has
now become enmeshed with opposition to the pension bill.  Refinery workers are demanding to retire earlier because
they have so-called hardship jobs, according to the
Confederation Generale du Travail, the biggest union among
refinery, port, gas and power workers.  The port of Marseille said the strike has left 73 vessels
stranded including 37 tankers carrying crude, 19 with refined
products and 10 with natural gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Gregory Viscusi  in Paris
t ;  Helene Fouquet  in Paris at   hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  