-- Workers at Three French Refineries Returning to Work as Shortages Continue
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2010-10-25T15:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/french-refinery-workers-halt-strikes-at-three-plants-as-shortages-persist.html
Workers at three French oil
refineries voted to return to work as a contested pension bill
neared parliamentary approval and the government warned that
fuel shortages were hurting the economy.  Exxon Mobil Corp. ’s 233,000-barrel-a-day Port-Jerome-
Gravenchon refinery in Normandy and its 119,000-barrel Fos
refinery, near Marseille, both decided to go back to work today,
Jean-Michel Maton, a CFDT union representative said in a
telephone interview.  “At Port-Jerome, workers voted to end the strike this
afternoon and deliveries have started from the terminal,” Exxon
spokeswoman  Catherine Brun  said by phone. At both refineries,
production is “dependent on the crude-oil supply situation as
Marseille harbor is still blocked.”  France’s eight remaining active refineries are either on
strike or shut because of a lack of crude oil. A 12th is
mothballed. The port of Marseille has been on strike for three
weeks. That labor dispute began over a reorganization of the
port, though it has now become enmeshed in nationwide opposition
to President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s plans to raise the minimum
retirement age to 62 from 60.  The Reichstett refinery in the east of France, operated by
 Petroplus Holdings AG , also voted to return to work, unions said
in a statement. The refinery is due to be shut and turned into a
terminal. The strike continues at Petroplus’s Petit Couronne
refinery in Normandy, said Sevillane Lambret, a CFDT
representative.  The pension bill is due to complete its parliamentary
passage within two days.  Total Strike  Total SA’s five refineries remain on strike, said Total
spokesman  Michael Crochet-Vourey  and CFDT representative
Francois Pelegrina.  France’s 11 refineries can process 1.84 million barrels of
oil a day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Most never
went back to work after an Oct. 12 national strike.  About a quarter of France’s service stations have no
gasoline.  The strikes are costing the French economy between 200
million euros ($280 million) and 400 million euros a day and are
hurting France’s image overseas, French Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde  said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Nidaa Bakhsh  in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 