-- Funny Flop Returns in Second Chance for ‘La Bete’: Interview
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/funny-flop-returns-giving-second-chance-for-hirson-s-la-bete-interview.html
At the opening night performance of
 “La Bete”  on Oct. 14, director  Matthew Warchus  paid an
extraordinary tribute to an unprepossessingly handsome, square-
jawed man in jacket, tie and jeans. Turning to the festive crowd
from the stage of the  Music Box Theatre , he said, “For those of
you who don’t know, this is the playwright,  David Hirson .  “This play opened 20 years ago, in an amazing production
whose life was unfairly cut short,” Warchus continued “I’m
aware that we have been joined tonight by some of the people
from the original,” he said, “and we dedicate this production
to them -- and to this man.”  Recalling that gracious speech a few days later, Hirson
said, “I actually had to take a walk down to the river to
collect myself, before going to the party.”  “La Bete” has always inspired strong reaction. Composed
in rhyming couplets, it concerns a high-toned playwright named
Elomire whose patroness insists that he hire a mountebank --
Valere, the “monster” of the title -- for his classical
troupe.  After Valere’s half-hour monologue -- a speech delivered,
in the new staging, by  Mark Rylance  in a scatological caterwaul
of hilarious vulgarity --  David Hyde Pierce ’s Elomire grows
resolute in his determination to block the appointment. This
leads to a scintillating showdown with the patroness, played by
 Joanna Lumley , in which art is pitted against commercialism,
edification against pandering, leading to an unexpectedly moving
denouement.  Not So Funny  “The real surprise to me was that in the writing of the
play, though the ambition was comic, there’s something about ‘La
Bete’ which is quite tragic,” Hirson, 52, said in an interview
at Bloomberg’s worldwide headquarters in Manhattan. “It takes
the audience on a very unusual journey.”  Nevertheless, in 1991, “La Bete” failed to impress the
New York Times’s then-chief drama critic,  Frank Rich , and,
despite an outpouring of support from other critics as well as
artists from around the country, it closed after just 25
performances, several of which Warchus attended.  “The door had been left ajar a bit to explore some of the
human dimensions of the play,” Hirson said. “Matthew said that
while he admired the original production, if we were going to do
this thing together, I needed to know that he would in no way
replicate that production. His view of the play has a romantic
poignancy. It was there in the original, but Matthew really went
there.”  Red Herring  Educated at Oxford and Yale, Hirson said he’d spent years
thinking about writing a comedy in the demanding form before the
idea of “La Bete” finally came to him.  “The Moliere influence on the play, by and large it’s a
red herring,” he said. “I loved the sound of alexandrines
being spoken very rapidly, of French people enjoying their
language at that clip and then roaring. There was a musical
aspect to that that was very appealing to me.”  Such appreciation probably came naturally to the New York
native, whose mother, Sally, is an actress and whose father,
Roger O. Hirson, wrote the book for “Pippin,” an unlikely ‘70s
Broadway smash about Charlemagne’s son.  “’La Bete’ was my first play,” David Hirson said. A
number of producers expressed interest, but it was Stuart Ostrow
who mounted it. Ostrow had produced “Pippin” but wasn’t aware
of the father-son connection until David himself pointed it out.  ‘Wrong Mountain’  It would be almost a decade before young Hirson returned to
Broadway, where the reception for his “Wrong Mountain” was
even chillier than the one for “La Bete.” Maybe it’s also
ready for a transformative revival.  Hirson is currently working on an adaptation of Johann
Strauss’s New Year’s Eve perennial, “Die Fledermaus,” to be
staged by  Jeremy Sams  at the Metropolitan Opera. The “La Bete”
revival was financed with a large reserve fund, according to co-
producer  Roger Berlind , in order to let the show find its
audience.  “We are relying heavily on word of mouth to propel the box
office,” a hopeful Berlind said. “We’re going to give it as
much of a chance as we can.”  Hirson, who said he avoided reading the reviews of his play
this time around, continues to be somewhat blithely undaunted by
Broadway’s own challenging mix of art and commerce.  “I have written these two plays and they’ve both been done
on Broadway,” he said, smiling slightly. “I believe I’m having
a most peculiar experience as a playwright, wouldn’t you say?”  ( Jeremy Gerard  is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 