-- GE Wins Indian Record $750 Million Turbine Order for Reliance Power Plant
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-10-25T17:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/ge-gets-750-million-turbine-order-from-india-s-reliance-power.html
General Electric Co. , whose
equipment generates about one-third of the world’s electricity,
won India’s biggest single order for gas and steam turbines, to
be used in the expansion of a  Reliance Power Ltd.  plant.  The turbines, which GE valued at more than $750 million
including service agreements, will add 2,400 megawatts to the
Samalkot plant in Andhra Pradesh state and start operating in
2012. The so-called combined-cycle plant will convert exhaust
from a gas-turbine generator to power a steam-turbine generator,
allowing extra power production without more fuel.  GE is tapping demand from emerging markets such as India,
with more than $11 billion in energy product and service orders
in the past two years. The discovery of natural gas in the
Krishna-Godavari basin by Reliance Industries Ltd. in 2002 has
helped India boost gas output at the fastest pace in the world.  “That is now driving some large, new gas allocations, so
we see India as a very, very exciting market for combined-cycle
gas-turbine power really for the foreseeable future,” said  Paul Browning , the vice president for global thermal products at the
GE Power & Water unit.  India has pledged to provide nationwide electricity by
2012, requiring an installed capacity of 200 gigawatts to
sustain a growth rate of 8 percent, according to the power
ministry’s website.  India’s Electricity Production  GE has more than 250 gas turbines already in India,
providing about 12 gigawatts in the country, Browning said. The
country had 165 gigawatts as of Sept. 30, according to the
 Central Electricity Authority . Today’s order includes a 15-year
service contract, helping lock in a stream of revenue over time.  GE’s six Frame 9FA gas turbines will be built in
Greenville, South Carolina, while the three D-11 steam turbines
will be made in Schenectady, New York, GE said.  Reliance Power plans to increase electricity-generation
capacity eightfold to 5,000 megawatts in two years and to 25,000
megawatts by 2015, billionaire Chairman  Anil Ambani  told
shareholders Sept. 28. Reliance Power currently produces 600
megawatts, he said in a televised speech at the time.  GE, which is also pursuing nuclear plant contracts in India
through its joint venture with Hitachi Ltd., expects growth in
gas-fired plants during the next decade in part because nuclear
power takes longer to implement and gas provides more
flexibility, Browning said.  Earlier this month, GE announced agreements valued at about
$700 million to supply natural-gas based turbines and services
in Saudi Arabia.  Energy Revenue  GE Energy Infrastructure , of which the power and water
division is a part, provided $37 billion of the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based parent company’s $157 billion in sales last
year. Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is raising research
and development spending by 18 percent this year -- including 21
percent in the third quarter -- to help bolster product demand,
including for U.S. exports.  GE climbed 6 cents to $16.12 at 12:57 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange  composite trading . The shares have risen 6.5
percent this year.  Reliance Power  shares gained 0.3 percent to 160.30 rupees
in Mumbai trading today compared with a 0.7 percent increase in
the benchmark  Sensitive Index . The stock has risen about 3
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 