-- German Bonds Gain With Treasuries on Fed Quantitative-Easing Speculation
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-10-25T15:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/german-bonds-gain-with-treasuries-on-fed-quantitative-easing-speculation.html
German  government bonds  rose with
Treasuries amid speculation a report this week will show U.S.
economic growth remained below average, fuelling speculation the
Federal Reserve will resume buying debt.  The German two-year yield declined for the first day in
nine. The Fed may buy $2 trillion of assets to stimulate the
economy, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said. German bonds gained even
as a report showed European  industrial orders  increased more
than twice as much as economists forecast. Belgian 10-year bonds
rose after a sale of 2.75 billion euros ($3.9 billion) of debt,
pushing the extra yield investors demand to hold the securities
instead of similar-maturity bunds to the least in a week.  “The whole stimulus-measures theme is still very much in
the limelight, and that’s keeping the market supported,” said
 Orlando Green , assistant director of capital-markets strategy at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London.  The German two-year yield decreased five basis points to
0.96 percent as of 3:37 p.m. in London. It rose on Oct. 21 to
1.008 percent, the highest since April 12. The yield on a 10-
year bund, Europe’s  benchmark  security, fell two basis points to
2.45 percent, after rising by 10 basis points last week.  The 10-year Treasury note snapped three days of losses,
with the yield falling five basis points to 2.51 percent. The
30-year yield declined for a second day, to 3.89 percent.  Fed Purchases  German bonds have gained 8.1 percent this year, while
Treasuries advanced 8.8 percent and U.K. gilts returned 9.3
percent, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Signs of a
slowing global economic recovery and concern about the finances
of Greece, Spain and Ireland have driven investors to bunds for
safety amid speculation of more bond purchases, known as
quantitative easing, by the Fed.  The Fed may begin its purchases with $500 billion over six
months, according to a report from Goldman economists led by  Jan Hatzius  in New York. The company, one of the 18 primary dealers
authorized to trade directly with the U.S. central bank, said
policy makers will announce the plan at their next meeting Nov.
2-3.  Reports this week will show new-home purchases were close
to the record low and third-quarter gross domestic product was
up 2 percent on an annual basis, separate Bloomberg surveys of
economists show. GDP rose 1.7 percent in the second quarter and
3.7 percent in the first.  Belgium’s  10-year yield  decreased six basis points to 3.29
percent, leaving the spread over German bunds at 83 basis
points, the least since Oct. 18, based on closing prices.  Belgian Bonds  The country sold September 2020 notes at a weighted-average
yield of 3.26 percent and the auction attracted bids for 2.39
times the amount on offer, the Brussels-based debt agency said
today. At the previous offering on Sept. 27, 10-year securities
were sold at an average yield of 3.14 percent. The bid-to-cover
ratio on Sept. 27 was 2.55. Belgium also sold bonds due in 2013
and in 2016 today.  Greek bonds fell, with the 10-year  bond yield  increasing
one basis point to 9.42 percent, leaving the gap with similar
German notes at 6.88 percentage points.  The Irish 10-year yield fell 11 basis points to 6.51
percent. Spain’s 10-year yield decreased eight basis points to
4.07 percent. Portugal’s 10-year yield declined 19 basis points
to 5.74 percent. The securities yielded 323 basis points more
than bunds, the least since Oct. 19.  Spain’s Finance Ministry is working on a plan to shore up
revenue with tax increases in case economic growth falls short
of forecasts, El Economista reported, without saying where it
got the information. The government may raise taxes on tobacco,
fuel, alcohol and electricity if growth is slower than expected,
the newspaper said.  Economic Reports  Gains by German notes may be limited as economic reports
signal that Europe’s economic recovery will be sustained even as
other regions falter.  Orders  in the 16-nation euro area jumped 5.3 percent from
July, when they fell 1.8 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  Economists  had
forecast a gain of 2.2 percent, the median of 14 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed. GfK AG., a Nuremberg-based market
research company, will say tomorrow that its consumer sentiment
index for Germany will rise in November, according to another
Bloomberg survey.  “The recovery is ongoing,” said  Glenn Marci , a fixed-
income strategist at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt. “We could see
yields rise faster than most people anticipated.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 