-- Germany to Raise Taxes on Tobacco, Cut Energy Subsidies Less Than Planned
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-10-25T13:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/germany-to-raise-taxes-on-tobacco-cut-energy-subsidies-less-than-planned.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government plans to raise tobacco taxes over the next five
years, generating as much as 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) in
fresh revenue for the federal budget by 2015.  The tax on cigarettes, rolling and pipe tobacco would be
levied from 2011 and make up for falling tobacco tax revenue as
Germans smoke less, opt for cheaper brands or turn to smuggled
products, the Finance Ministry said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Merkel’s coalition, seeking to shrink the budget deficit
with about 80 billion euros of cuts and revenue-raising
measures, agreed late yesterday to water down planned cuts to
energy subsidies for companies with the difference in part to be
made up with the tobacco-tax increase. That prompted opposition
criticism Merkel is shifting the tax burden from companies to
taxpayers.  “This is completely the wrong direction to take, both
economically and ecologically,”  Alexander Bonde , the opposition
Greens’ budget spokesman in parliament, said on MDR Info. “The
government has given up its plans under lobby pressure.”  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  had planned to recoup
1.5 billion euros annually from cutting subsidies for energy-
intensive companies such as the chemicals industry, prompting
the BDI industry lobby to warn that as many as 870,000 jobs were
at risk. Schaeuble will instead raise about 500 million euros
from the energy tax next year, Bild newspaper reported today.  Germany’s VCI chemical-industry association welcomed the
government decision as a return to “economic sanity,”
according to an e-mailed statement.  The tobacco-tax increase will take place incrementally from
2011 to prevent smokers from rushing to cheaper brands, the
Finance Ministry said. It will also raise the levy on less-taxed
products faster to avoid price distortions. A pack of 19
cigarettes will be taxed 4-8 cents more per year, while a 40
gram (1.4 ounces) pack of loose tobacco will be levied 12-14
cents a year.  Beginning next year, the government will raise a predicted
200 million euros through the tax, rising to 1 billion by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  