-- Germany's Strenthening Economy Puts Pressure on ECB to Step In, S&P Says
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-10-25T13:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/germany-s-strenthening-economy-puts-pressure-on-ecb-to-step-in-s-p-says.html
Germany’s strengthening  economy  may
force the European Central Bank to start raising borrowing costs
“sooner rather than later,” Standard & Poor’s said.  “As Germany advances in recovery, it will likely continue
to bounce back more quickly and outpace the growth rates of
other euro zone members,” S&P Chief European Economist  Jean- Michel Six  in Paris said in an e-mailed note today. “We think
the pull on the ECB to base the timing of its exit strategy from
accommodative monetary policy on the euro zone’s largest economy
will be strong.”  Germany’s economy has fueled the 16-member euro region’s
recovery as companies stepped up  output  to meet reviving export
demand. While governments from Ireland to Spain are cutting
spending to push down budget deficits, the German recovery is
showing few signs of cooling.  Business confidence  unexpectedly
rose in October and manufacturing growth quickened.  The German economy expanded 2.2 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months, the fastest pace in two
decades and more than twice the euro region’s  growth rate . The
European Commission last month forecast German gross domestic
product to rise 3.4 percent in 2010 compared with 1.7 percent in
the euro region and 1.6 percent in France.  With the euro-region recovery losing some momentum, the ECB
on Oct. 7 kept  borrowing costs  at a record low of 1 percent and
last month extended emergency lending measures for banks into
2011. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated on Oct. 18
that the current rate level is “appropriate,” indicating the
bank is in no rush to raise the benchmark.  “Germany appears to be displaying signs of a more broadly
based and more dynamic pickup than those of most other euro zone
members,” Six said. “The ECB acting sooner rather than later
could spell a fresh spike in the euro versus the dollar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  