-- Ghana to Start Projects With $9 Billion Chinese Loans in 2011, Tetteh Says
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   A n a   M o n t e i r o   [ ]
-- 2010-10-25T17:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/ghana-to-start-projects-with-9-billion-chinese-loans-in-2011-tetteh-says.html
Ghana will start work on projects
funded with $9 billion of loans from Chinese banks next year,
Trade Minister  Hannah Tetteh  said.  The projects, agreed upon during President  John Atta Mills ’s visit to China last month, will be preceded by technical
preparations that will have to be approved by parliament, Tetteh
told reporters today in the capital, Accra.  “We expect parliament to do its part hopefully early next
year, then actual work can begin,” she said.  Ghana, which is set to become Africa’s newest oil exporter
at the end of the year, may pump as much as 240,000 barrels of
oil from its offshore Jubilee field by 2014-15, Ghana National
Petroleum Corp. said last month.  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s largest
offshore oil producer, and Ghana Petroleum last week made a $5
billion bid to buy Kosmos Energy LLC’s assets in the country,
including its stake in Jubilee.  Agreements signed by China and Ghanaian agencies include a
$32 million grant for water and fish-farm projects and a $250
million concessionary loan for the Kpong Water Works to increase
supply in Accra and the Eastern Region. The Export-Import Bank
of China committed $5.9 billion to specific health, road,
railway, agriculture and education projects, she said.  China’s Exim Bank agreed to lend the West African nation
$10.4 billion for road, rail and energy projects. Ghanaian
ministries, departments and agencies are still in discussions
with the lender regarding some projects it will fund, according
to Tetteh.  China Development Bank agreed to lend Ghana $3 billion to
establish a gas processing plant and an alumina refinery in the
Western Region, Tetteh said.  “The alumina refinery will be developed as a joint venture
between government, China Africa Development Fund and Bosai
Mineral Group of China,” she said. Bosai currently owns 80
percent of Ghana Bauxite Co., she said. 