-- Giants May Thrive as Bookmakers' Underdog Against Rangers in World Series
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2010-10-25T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/giants-may-thrive-as-bookmakers-underdog-against-rangers-in-world-series.html
The year of the pitcher has turned
into the postseason of the underdog, which may benefit the San
Francisco Giants as they seek a first World Series title since
1954.  The Texas Rangers are the 5-6 favorite at the Las Vegas
Hilton to win on their first visit to the World Series. The
Giants, who last played for the Major League Baseball
championship in 2002, are even money, meaning a winning $100
wager would return $100 along with the initial stake.  “It could be the closest World Series in years,” Jay
Kornegay, executive director of the Las Vegas Hilton Race and
Sports Book, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a fascinating
contest between the pitching of the Giants and the hitting of
the Rangers.”  The Giants will host the first two games on Oct. 27 and 28.
The best-of-seven series then moves to Arlington, Texas, for as
many as three games before returning to San Francisco for the
final two games, if necessary, on Nov. 3 and 4.  The Rangers ousted the defending champion New York Yankees
after recording their first playoff series win against the Tampa
Bay Rays. The Giants knocked off Atlanta and then two days ago
eliminated the Philadelphia Phillies, who reached the World
Series the past two years.  “The two best teams are playing,” Texas manager  Ron Washington  told reporters yesterday. “That’s the way it should
be.”  The Phillies entered the postseason as favorites among Las
Vegas oddsmakers ahead of the Yankees. The Giants were fourth
choice at 8-1, followed by the Rangers at 10-1.  ‘Start Believing’  “We like our odds, even though not many do,” Giants
closer  Brian Wilson  told reporters. “It’s time to start
believing.”  World Series broadcaster Fox wanted a repeat of last year’s
matchup between the Yankees and Phillies, who play in the
largest and fourth-biggest U.S. media markets, said  Rick Gentile ,
a former executive producer and senior vice president at CBS
Sports who teaches sports management at Seton Hall University in
South Orange, New Jersey.  The six-game 2009 World Series averaged 19.4 million
viewers, 39 percent more than the previous year and the most in
five years, Fox Sports said. That helped the  News Corp.  unit
sell 90 percent of its commercial spots for this year’s World
Series before the lineup was known, at rates 8 percent higher
than last year.  “A badly rated series is ammunition for an advertiser to
say they’ll pay less,” Gentile said in a telephone interview.
“Next year, the advertisers will come to the table and say,
‘We’re not giving you an increase. We got killed last year.’”  Top Audience  The Game 6 win for Texas over the Yankees was the most-
watched game of the major league season with 11.9 million
viewers, Turner Broadcasting System Inc. said.  “America probably wanted to see Yankees and the Phillies,
but it’s time for some new blood,” Giants first baseman  Aubrey Huff  said. “It’ll be an exciting series.”  Following the trend of a season in which runs and hits per
game were at their lowest in 18 years, Rangers pitcher  Cliff Lee 
may be the deciding element in the World Series, Kornegay said.
The Texas left-hander is 7-0 with a 1.26 earned run average in
eight career postseason starts.  “He’s the one with the X-factor,” Kornegay said. “He’s
been so dominant.”  Lee, who has a 1.13 ERA and a 3-0 career record against San
Francisco, will start the opening game against two-time Cy Young
Award winner  Tim Lincecum .  Top Pitching Staff  The Giants led the majors with a 3.36 ERA during the
regular season and have improved on that in the postseason, with
a 2.47 ERA in 10 games.  “Their pitching is good,” said Rangers right fielder
 Nelson Cruz , who has five postseason home runs. “All those
National League teams have good defense and good pitching.”  While the Rangers have a 2.76 postseason ERA, they’ve also
blasted 17 home runs in 11 games. The Yankees were second among
baseball’s playoff teams with 10 homers.  The Giants have six postseason homers and have scored 30
runs to 59 for Texas.  Cruz,  Josh Hamilton ,  Ian Kinsler  and  Bengie Molina  all have
at least two homers in the postseason for the Rangers.       Cody Ross , who was picked up off waivers by San Francisco during the
season, is the lone’ Giants player with more than one postseason
home run. His four playoff homers are twice as many as the rest
of the team.  “The Rangers dominated the Yankees with their hitting,”
Kornegay said. “If they can do that again, it’ll be tough for
the Giants.”  The Rangers’ seven postseason wins have come by an average
of 5.6 runs. The Giants’ winning margin is 1.3, with six of
seven playoff games decided by one run.  “You get a lot of people -- family, friends -- telling us
we give them a heart attack with these games,” Giants second
baseman  Freddy Sanchez  said. “I think we’ve been prepared for
these games. We’ve had them all year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 