-- MGM Resorts Plans $500 Million Sale of Six-Year Notes
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-10-25T18:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/mgm-resorts-plans-to-offer-500-million-in-senior-notes.html
MGM Resorts International , the
biggest casino operator on the Las Vegas Strip, plans to sell
$500 million of six-year notes as soon as today as bondholder
interest in gambling company debt revives.  MGM will use proceeds to repay some lenders whose
commitments expire next year, it said in a statement distributed
by PR Newswire. The debt may yield about 10.25 percent,
according to a person familiar with the offering who declined to
be identified because terms aren’t set.  Casino company bonds are rallying as investors gain
confidence the economy won’t slip back into recession and Las
Vegas Strip gambling revenue climbs. MGM debt has returned 3.8
percent this month, the second-best performance among the top 50
issuers in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield
Master II index, trailing only  Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. , the
world’s biggest casino company.  “MGM continues to hack away at near-term maturities,”
wrote  Barbara Cappaert , an analyst at Montpelier, Vermont-based
KDP Investment Advisors, in a note to clients today. “We would
be aggressive buyers at this level,” she said of the new bonds.  MGM is selling the securities to repay some of the $1.2
billion owed to lenders under its senior credit facility, the
statement said. These lenders haven’t agreed to extend their
commitments beyond October 2011, according to the statement,
after creditors holding $3.6 billion said they would push the
maturity of their debt to February 2014.  The offering follows MGM’s $845 million sale of 10-year, 9
percent notes in March. The company said it will also use $511
million raised last week in a sale of common stock to repay
debt, it said in an Oct. 19 statement.  Gambling Revenue  Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are managing the sale, the
person said. Moody’s Investors Service ranks MGM’s unsecured
debt Caa1, while Standard & Poor’s rates the company CCC+.  MGM’s $732.7 million of 7.5 percent notes due in June 2016
traded at 89 cents on the dollar to yield 10.1 percent,
according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The debt has climbed
10.2 cents on the dollar since Aug. 31, Trace data show.  Las Vegas Strip gambling revenue jumped 21 percent in
August, according to Nevada’s Gaming Control Board. Revenue rose
to $544.4 million, from $449.6 million in the same month a year
earlier, the board said Oct. 8. Strip casino proceeds increased
4.5 percent in the first eight months of this year.  Harrah’s debt has returned 6.05 percent this month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 