-- Gold Stock Discoveries for Value-Minded Investors: John Dorfman
-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 2010-10-25T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/gold-discoveries-for-value-minded-investors-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
It’s not too late to buy gold
stocks, even though the metal has gained about 21 percent this
year.  The forces propelling the commodity’s rise are still at
work. These include:  -- Decreasing faith in the U.S. dollar. The  Federal
Reserve ’s program of quantitative easing will increase the U.S.
money supply, making dollars cheaper.  -- International tension. U.S. investors fear Vladimir Putin, distrust Iran, worry about Islamic militancy, fret about
the proliferation of nuclear weapons, and wonder whether
Pakistan,  Saudi Arabia  and Iraq can maintain political
stability.  -- Possible inflation. Although tame at the moment,
inflation might rekindle if Uncle Sam pumps up the money supply.  -- Government gold purchases. Sovereign wealth funds in  India , Saudi Arabia and other countries have been buying
physical gold, pushing up the demand.  Liking gold is one thing. Figuring out which gold stocks to
buy is another. The problem is that many gold companies sell for
35 to 70 times earnings -- if indeed they have any earnings --
thanks to the intangible psychological allure of this precious
metal, and the strike-it-rich appeal of the idea that a mining
company might make the next great gold discovery.  Attractive Multiples  Among U.S.-based gold mining stocks, the most reasonably
priced is  Newmont Mining Corp . It sells for a bit less than 16
times earnings, a multiple I can live with.  Based in Greenwood Village, Colorado, Newmont is the
largest U.S. gold producer, operating mines in the U.S.,  Europe ,
Indonesia,  Australia , and elsewhere.  Newmont largely disdains hedging, a technique for locking
up a fixed price for gold to be produced in the future. So the
company benefits more than some competitors when gold’s price
rises, and is hurt more when it falls.  After posting a loss in 2007, Newmont bounced back with
profits in 2008 and 2009. This year, analysts think it will earn
$3.91 a share, up from $2.66 last year. If they’re right, it
would be an impressive profit jump of 47 percent.
      Barrick Gold Corp ., the world’s largest gold producer, is
more popular with analysts than Newmont. I prefer Newmont, which
I see as somewhat cheaper and with a slightly better balance
sheet.  Speculative Choices  In buying gold shares, many investors prefer to speculate
on junior companies that are exploring for gold but not
producing it yet. Some juniors will become producers; others
will sell out to bigger players once they have proved the extent
of their resource by exploratory drilling.  For speculatively minded investors who want to take a flyer
on a less-proven company, consider  High River Gold Mines Ltd .,  Inter-Citic Minerals Inc ., and Victoria Gold Corp.  High River, based in Toronto, sells for seven times
earnings before extraordinary items, and has a good balance
sheet, with debt less than 6 percent of equity. It currently has
two mining projects, one in  Russia , the other in West Africa.  Last year its revenue, converted into U.S. dollars was $325
million, compared with $171 million in 2008.  Inter-Citic Minerals, located in Markham, Ontario, in  Canada , is exploring for gold, copper and silver in  China . The
company has reported finding gold concentrations as high as 5.62
grams per ton of surrounding material in one zone of its
flagship mine, the Dachang Gold Project. For open-pit mining, a
concentration of 1 gram per ton or more is considered good.  Pockets of Gold    Victoria Gold Corp ., based in Toronto, is trying to find
gold and silver at half a dozen sites in Nevada and Canada. In
September it reported finding isolated gold pockets with grades
as high as 12 grams per ton at its Dublin Gulch site in Canada.
The company stressed that it will not know the “true width of
the gold zones” until it does further exploration.  Inter-Citic and Victoria both have small market
capitalizations, which can make the stocks highly volatile.
Inter-Citic’s market cap is about $164 million while Victoria’s
is about $373 million. Victoria has had weekly moves up or down
of at least 10 percent 10 times this year, and Inter-Citic has
had such moves 13 times.  One way to acquire gold securities relatively cheaply is to
buy shares in a company that produces both gold and base metals.
A typical mixture is gold and copper, since the two are often
found together.  Improved Earnings  My favorite gold-and-copper play is Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. Based in Phoenix, it mines the metals mainly
in Chile and  Indonesia . The stock sells for 11 times earnings,
and analysts think earnings will rise to $8.28 a share this year
from $5.86 last year.  Analysts, who disliked Freeport in the first half of 2009,
have warmed up to it as earnings have improved. Their target
price, or 12-month prediction, was about $50 in May 2009. Today
their target is about $110. The stock trades at about $94 and I
believe it has the potential to hit $124 by next fall.  Disclosure note: I own shares in Newmont, Inter-Citic and
Victoria for clients and personally. I do not have any long or
short positions in the other stocks mentioned in this column.    John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in  Boston ,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  