-- Google Investigated by U.K. Over Collection of Private E-Mails, Passwords
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-25T14:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/google-being-probed-by-u-k-privacy-regulator-over-collection-of-e-mails.html
Google Inc.  is being investigated by
Britain’s privacy regulator after the company said its  Street
View  mapping unit inadvertently gathered personal e-mails and
passwords from unsecured wireless networks.  Google, which first disclosed the security breach in May,
said in an Oct. 22  blog post  that while the data it collected
was mostly fragmentary, it included entire e-mails and URLs. The
Cheshire, England-based Information Commissioner’s Office will
examine if the data applied to the U.K., the watchdog said today
 in a statement .  The regulator will review “whether this information
relates to the data inadvertently captured in the U.K., before
deciding on the necessary course of action, including a
consideration of the need to use our enforcement powers,” ICO
spokesman Greg Jones said in the statement.  European governments including Germany, France and Spain
began probes of Google after the Mountain View, California-based
company said in May that its Street View cars had inadvertently
recorded information from Wi-Fi networks while photographing
roadsides in residential neighborhoods.  “As soon as we realized what had happened, we stopped
collecting all Wi-Fi data from our Street View cars and
immediately informed the authorities,”  Alma Whitten , Google’s
director of privacy, said yesterday in a statement. “This data
has never been used in any Google product.”  Italian Agency  In Italy, Google faces a fine of as much as 180,000 euros
($252,300) from the country’s data-protection agency if the
company fails to clearly mark its Street View vehicles and give
detailed information about their routes, the watchdog said today
in a  statement . The requirement will allow people to “decide
what to do and possibly prevent the ‘capturing’ of their
images,” it said.  In June, a U.K. privacy group asked London police to
investigate whether Google, the owner of the world’s most
popular search engine, should face criminal charges for
collecting data from homes while photographing thousands of
residential streets.  Privacy International , which has received funding from the
 European Parliament  and the American Civil Liberties Union,
asked London’s  Metropolitan Police  to investigate why Google
gathered unsecured Wi-Fi data while scanning neighborhoods for
Street View.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 