-- Gemalto Sues Google, HTC, Samsung Over Java Card Technology
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-25T16:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/google-htc-samsung-sued-in-texas-by-gemalto-over-java-card-technology.html
Gemalto NV  sued  Google Inc.  and
phonemakers  HTC Corp. ,  Motorola Inc.  and  Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd ., claiming the Android mobile-phone operating system used
its technology without permission.  The manufacturer of digital-security technology filed the
patent-infringement suit against the companies in Texas federal
court on Oct. 22, according to the complaint. Gemalto said the
development platform for Android improperly includes its Java
Card technology, which allows software written in Java and other
“high-level programming languages” to run on mobile phones.  Google’s Android is now the most popular operating system
for smartphones in the U.S., with Apple Inc.’s iOS and Research
in Motion Inc.’s Blackberry platforms tied for second place,
Nielsen Co. said earlier this month.  The Java Card allows applications developed on other
platforms to run on “a resource constrained device” like a
mobile phone, Gemalto said in a  statement on its website . The
technology was developed in the 1990s at the company’s Texas
research facilities, according to the statement.  HTC “absolutely respects innovation and intellectual
property patents,” and is investigating the Java Card issue,
the company said in an e-mailed statement. Motorola is reviewing
the Gemalto complaint and “will vigorously defend itself,” it
said in an e-mailed statement.  Samsung spokeswoman Chenny Kim declined to comment. Google
spokesman  Bill Echikson  didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Gemalto, based in Amsterdam, last week reported a 25
percent increase in third-quarter revenue, led by its security
and secure payments business.  The case is Gemalto v. HTC Corporation, HTC America Inc.,
Exedea Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Samsung
Telecommunications America LLC, Motorola Inc., and Google Inc.,
case no. 6:10-cv-00561, United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Texas (Tyler Division).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 