-- Grisham’s Flat Death Row Parable Can Feel Like Week in Solitary
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2010-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/grisham-s-flat-death-row-parable-feels-like-week-in-solitary-book-review.html
I agree with  John Grisham  on capital
punishment, but reading “ The Confession”  still felt like
spending a week in solitary confinement.  The story of a last-minute fight to save an innocent man
from execution once the true killer emerges, the book is
didactic, predictable and dull.  Donte Drumm, a black former high-school football star, has
spent nine years on death row for the murder of Nicole Yarber, a
white cheerleader who disappeared from a mall parking lot.  Her body was never found, but Donte confessed to the crime
during a manipulative police interrogation. Even though he
immediately retracted his confession, Donte was convicted -- and
his conviction was upheld through years of energetic appeals by
his lawyer, Robbie Flak.  Now Travis Boyette, a tattooed, recently paroled ex-con who
says he’s dying of a brain tumor, wants to confess to the crime.
The problem is that no one will listen.  You can almost feel Grisham grabbing your lapels and
shaking you, saying: Can you believe these people? The detective
tricked Donte into confessing, and the judge allowed it! The
judge was sleeping with the district attorney and the appeals
court didn’t even care! The appeals-court judge wanted to play
tennis at 5 p.m. so he wouldn’t accept a last-minute petition!
The governor is only interested in his poll numbers! Do
something!  The problem is that  Grisham  stacks the deck so entirely on
Donte’s side. We never once doubt that he’s  innocent  or that
Travis Boyette is guilty.  There Is Suspense  We do wonder if Travis will get through to Robbie Flak and
they’ll manage to locate Nicole’s body in time to save Donte.
But we know that whether Donte lives or dies -- don’t worry, I
won’t give away that one bit of suspense -- the truth will come
out and the wide variety of evildoers and nincompoops will be
shamed and punished.  Grisham seems to have forgotten that fiction is supposed to
entertain the reader. And even in a book about a serious subject
like this, a little humor wouldn’t hurt.  “The Confession” is published by  Doubleday  (418 pages,
$28.95). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Laurie Muchnick  is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 