-- Gymboree to Raise $1.47 Billion of Debt for Bain LBO
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-10-25T22:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/gymboree-to-raise-1-47-billion-of-debt-to-finance-bain-s-leveraged-buyout.html
Gymboree Corp. , the children’s
clothing retailer being taken private by Bain Capital LLC, is
seeking $1.47 billion of loans to pay for its leveraged buyout.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley agreed to provide
a $720 million term loan maturing in seven years and a one-year,
$520 million senior unsecured bridge facility with an increasing
interest rate, according to a commitment letter Gymboree
attached today to a regulatory filing. Bank of America Corp. is
arranging a $225 million asset-based revolving credit line due
in five years as part of the financing package.  Bain agreed to purchase the San Francisco-based retailer
for $65.40 a share, according to an Oct. 11 statement, paying a
57 percent premium. That’s the biggest retail-apparel leveraged
buyout in three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Boston-based private-equity firm will fund about 70 percent
of the $1.8 billion acquisition with debt, the filing shows.  The term loan will have an interest rate 4.5 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate, with a 1.75
percent floor on the lending benchmark, the filing shows.  Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley may host a lender meeting
to discuss financing terms as soon as next week, according to a
person familiar with the negotiations. The company may offer to
issue the loan at 98.5 cents on the dollar, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the terms are private. So-
called original-issue discounts reduce proceeds for the company
and boost the yield for investors.  Gymboree will repay 1 percent of its debt every year. The
company agreed to use 50 percent of excess  cash flow  to pay down
its borrowings and all net cash proceeds from asset sales and
additional debt issuances, the commitment letter shows.  Revolver Rates  The revolver will consist of a $213 million facility and a
$12 million first-in, last-out credit line, according to the
commitment letter. In a revolving credit facility, money can be
borrowed again once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t.  Gymboree has a margin of 2.25 percentage points to 2.75
percentage points over Libor on the larger credit line and a
spread of 3.75 percentage points to 4.25 percentage points on
the smaller portion. Libor is the rate banks charge to lend to
each other and the margin is tied to the amount borrowed. The
company also pays a commitment fee ranging from 0.375 percent to
0.625 percent.  The bridge loan has a margin of 8 percentage points over
Libor with a 1.75 percent floor on the lending benchmark. The
spread will increase by 0.5 percentage point every three months.  Note Sale  Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse are arranging the
facility, which is a backstop to $520 million of senior
unsecured notes that may be sold in mid-November, said another
person familiar with the transaction, who also declined to be
identified because information on the issuance isn’t public.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors and obtain
debt to finance takeovers with the intention of selling the
companies later for a profit.  Bain will provide $524 million in equity financing for the
transaction, according to another commitment letter attached to
the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 