-- IBM Sells Analytics Software for IPhones, BlackBerrys
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-10-25T20:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/ibm-introduces-analytics-software-for-iphones-blackberrys.html
International Business Machines
Corp. , the largest computer-services provider, unveiled trend-
identifying software for smartphones and tablet computers,
aiming to expand its billion-dollar analytics business.  The program lets businesses access analytics software on
mobile devices and share the data via social networks, IBM said
today in a statement. The software, Cognos 10, works on  Research
In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry and  Apple Inc. ’s iPad and iPhone.  IBM is betting that analytics software, which identifies
and forecasts trends, will help the company boost sales as
customers look to be more efficient. IBM’s  sales  from analytics
should climb to $16 billion in the next five years, an increase
of almost 80 percent, the company said in May.  The number of mobile workers will top 1.19 billion by 2013,
IBM said, giving analytics a wider audience.  Hertz Global
Holdings Inc. , the largest car-rental company, will gather
survey data from customers via text messages, and use IBM’s
software to analyze responses. Employees can then receive real-
time information on potential problems, such as wait times at
car-rental locations, and adjust accordingly. Office Depot Inc.
also is using the software to gather, analyze and report store-
performance data.  IBM, based in Armonk, New York,  rose  17 cents to $139.84 at
4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares  have climbed  6.8 percent this year.  IBM has spent more than $14 billion on analytics
 acquisitions  in the past five years, including business-
management software maker Cognos Inc. for about $5 billion, its
largest acquisition ever.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  