-- IMF Says Africa Must Reduce Fiscal Deficits as Economic Growth Rebounds
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-25T08:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/imf-says-africa-must-reduce-fiscal-deficits-as-economic-growth-rebounds.html
Sub-Saharan African governments must
begin trimming fiscal deficits as economic growth in the world’s
poorest region returns to the levels it reached before the
global financial crisis, the International Monetary Fund said.  Africa must begin “rebuilding the policy buffers” that
helped to offset the worst of the crisis last year, by
increasing their foreign exchange reserves and tightening
budgets,  Antoinette Sayeh , head of the IMF’s Africa department,
said in an e-mailed statement from Washington today after the
release of the fund’s Regional Economic Outlook for Africa.  Sub-Saharan African governments maintained spending levels
as the global recession slashed exports last year, pushing up
fiscal deficits to an average of 7.2 percent of gross domestic
product, according to the IMF. With economic growth recovering
to 5 percent this year and 5.5 percent in 2011, African
governments must start reining in spending, the IMF said.  “Expansionary fiscal policies will need to be tempered to
make sure that public finances return to a sustainable path and
public debt levels remain manageable,” Sayeh said.  The IMF estimates that fiscal deficits, excluding grants,
will average 5.9 percent of gross domestic product in 2010 and
4.8 percent next year.  “With growth recovery going back to pre-crisis levels, we
want to see deficits reduced,” Abebe Selassie, the IMF’s
division chief for Africa, said at a conference in Kenya’s
capital, Nairobi, today. Governments must also begin rebuilding
their foreign currency reserves “that have been utilized during
the course of the crisis,” he added.  The financial crisis led to wider deficits in countries
such as Ghana, Botswana and Nigeria. Ghana’s budget gap reached
19 percent of GDP in 2008 and 15 percent last year, according to
the IMF.  “With respect to sub-Saharan Africa, the room for fiscal
expansion is diminishing,” Kenyan Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said. Governments need to return to the “prudent
fiscal and monetary policies” that enabled them to weather the
crisis, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  