-- Immelt, McNerney Among CEOs to Meet Obama in India
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-10-26T09:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/immelt-mcnerney-to-meet-obama-in-india-as-u-s-tries-to-increase-exports.html
President  Barack Obama  will meet in
India next month with a group of U.S. chief executive officers
including  Jeffrey Immelt  of General Electric Co. and  Jim McNerney  of Boeing Co., as the administration seeks to boost
 exports .  Obama will address a conference sponsored by the  U.S.-India
Business Council  Nov. 6 in Mumbai, India’s financial capital,
while in India at the start of a four-nation trip to Asia.  Other executives expected to meet with Obama in India are
 Honeywell International Inc . CEO  David Cote ,  PepsiCo Inc . CEO
 Indra Nooyi  and  McGraw-Hill Companies Inc . CEO  Terry McGraw III ,
said  Jen Psaki , a White House spokeswoman.  United Technologies
Corp . CEO  Louis Chenevert  also plans to attend, the company said.  The president will use the meetings with the executives as
an opportunity to “discuss the opportunities and challenges of
doing business in India,” Psaki said.  Obama has vowed to double U.S. exports in five years. India,
Asia’s third-biggest economy, offers a rapidly growing market
for U.S. companies selling such products as retail goods and
power-plant technology. Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke  also will
be in the meeting.  “It’s a wonderful tactic, because it’s an action-forcing
event,” said  William Reinsch , president of the National Foreign
Trade Council in Washington. “When a Cabinet official, or even
better a president shows up, everybody knows that’s the time to
get the deal done.”  The president’s trip includes a visit to Indonesia, where
he lived as a child, a meeting of Group of 20 leaders in South
Korea and an  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation  summit in Japan.  Chamber Dispute  The U.S.-India Business Council is based at the Washington
headquarters of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which has been at
odds with the Obama administration in the weeks before the U.S.
midterm congressional elections. White House aides have
suggested that the Chamber is using money from overseas sources
to help fund an advertising campaign directed mostly against
Democrats. The Chamber has criticized Obama for regulatory and
legislative actions that it says are anti-business.  The Chamber plans to spend $75 million on this year’s
election. President  Thomas Donohue  has denied using any foreign
funds to underwrite the political activity.  Trade between the U.S. and India more than doubled to $37
billion in 2009 compared with 2003, according to U.S. Commerce
Department data. In the first eight months of 2010, total trade
topped $32 billion, Commerce figures show.  Aircraft Orders  India is in negotiations to buy as many as 10  Boeing 
military transport aircraft. The sale of 10 C-17 Globemaster III
aircraft may be valued at as much as $5.8 billion, according to
the U.S. Defense Security Cooperation Agency.  Chicago-based Boeing, the second-largest U.S. defense
contractor, expects to bid for $31 billion worth of military
contracts in India in the next 10 years as it competes with
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp.  and other
suppliers for orders following a tripling of the nation’s
defense budget. India is assessing bids from European and U.S.
companies, including Boeing and Lockheed, for 126 fighter jets.  India also is seeking to expand power production to keep up
with its economic growth. The U.S. and India in 2005 signed an
agreement that allowed U.S. nuclear suppliers to resume trade
with India after being barred when India tested an atomic bomb
in 1974.  The government aims to expand its nuclear capacity to
60,000 megawatts by 2030 from 4,560 megawatts at the end of July.
India’s total power generation capacity was 163,670 megawatts as
of July 31, according to the Central Electricity Authority.  Power Equipment  GE  Hitachi , a venture between GE and  Hitachi Ltd. , and
Westinghouse Electric Co. are among the companies competing for
contracts to build nuclear power plants in India.  GE, whose equipment generates about one-third of the
world’s electricity, won India’s biggest single order for gas
and steam turbines. The deal, which the company valued at more
than $750 million, will be used in the expansion of a  Reliance
Power Ltd.  plant.  A forum of U.S. and Indian CEOs has proposed initiatives in
infrastructure, clean energy, education and health, said  Chanda Kochhar , chief executive officer of ICICI Bank Ltd., India’s
second largest lender.  Retail Opening  “Funding of infrastructure needs will be the one single
policy decision that will make the most difference,”  Deepak Parekh , chairman of Housing Development Finance Corp., said in a
phone interview. India needs to spend about $1 trillion on
highways, ports, airports and utilities from April 2012 to March
2017, twice the amount the nation’s Planning Commission
recommended in the previous five years.  United Technologies, the maker of Otis elevators, Carrier
air-conditioners, Sikorsky helicopters and Pratt & Whitney jet
engines also is seeking to add sales in India.  India’s growing middle class, expanding economy and
increasingly brand-conscious population also will help push
retail sales up by 35 percent over the next three years,
consulting group AT Kearney said in a June  report .  Wal-Mart Stores Inc . CEO  Michael Duke  is in New Delhi,
where he said yesterday he was “hopeful and optimistic” that
India will allow foreign investment in retail operations.  Some of the CEOs Obama will meet with in India serve as
advisers to the White House. Immelt sits on the president’s
outside economic board, and McNerney heads the export council
that the president formed in March.  Obama appointed Cote to his commission on cutting the
federal deficit, and White House officials have said he is one
of the executives Obama most admires. Cote yesterday praised the
actions taken by Obama on the economy.  “It’s bad now, but it would have been significantly worse
if we hadn’t done anything,” Cote said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “The president gets very little credit
for avoiding a depression.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  