-- India's Stock Market to Gain From `Wealth Transfer,' Reliance Capital Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-10-25T10:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/india-s-stock-market-to-gain-from-wealth-transfer-reliance-capital-says.html
India’s stocks, the best performers
among the world’s 10 biggest markets, will extend gains amid the
“biggest wealth transfer” from developed-nation equities,
according to the country’s largest money manager.  The Group of Seven nations will generate less than 50
percent of the world’s economy by 2012, from about 70 percent in
the mid-1980s, based on International Monetary Fund data
compiled by Bloomberg. Overseas  investment  into Indian stocks
increased 68 percent this year to a record, according to the
market regulator, helping to drive the 16 percent rally in the
Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index , or  Sensex .  “The Indian economy is going to quadruple in the next 10
to 12 years and money will find its way” in the “biggest
wealth transfer in history,” said  Sunil Singhania , head of
equities at Reliance Capital Asset Management Ltd., which
manages $32 billion in assets. “You have one bloc that is
growing at 6 percent with an appreciating currency and the other
struggling to grow at 2 percent with a depreciating currency.”  Emerging-market stock mutual  funds  attracted more than $60
billion this year as benchmark interest rates near zero percent
in the U.S. and Japan lifted demand for higher-yielding assets,
data compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm
EPFR Global show. U.S. stock funds had outflows of $71 billion,
according to Investment Company Institute data.  ‘Younger Generation’  “Demographics are in favor of India,” Singhania, 43,
whose  Reliance Growth Fund  is India’s best performer over the
past decade, said in an interview in Goa, India on Oct. 23.
“Whenever a person ages, the business and wealth gets
transferred to the younger generation. If you take the world as
a family, the same thing is going to happen.”  Developing nations will expand 6.4 percent next year as
advanced countries grow 2.2 percent, according to forecasts this
month from the Washington-based International Monetary Fund.
India’s gross domestic product expanded 8.8 percent in the
quarter ended June,  Brazil  grew 9 percent in the first quarter,
the fastest pace in 15 years, while China expanded 9.6 percent
in the third quarter.  The  Sensex  climbed 0.7 percent to 20,303.12 at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai, its highest level in more than a week.  Market Capitalization  The U.S., the world’s biggest economy, makes up 29 percent
of global stock market capitalization and has gained 4.4 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The BRIC
nations comprising Brazil, Russia, India and China account for
about 15 percent of the world’s $49.6 trillion market value.
India’s capitalization increased 26 percent, while China climbed
12 percent this year, the data showed.  The rally drove the Sensex’s valuations to  19.2 times 
estimated earnings, the most expensive  among the world’s 20
largest markets and in Asia, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Indian market is “relatively expensive” based on
estimated earnings,  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $34 billion
as executive chairman of Templeton Asset Management Ltd., said
on Sept. 29 in Istanbul. Billionaire investor  Rakesh Jhunjhunwala , named by Forbes magazine as the  Warren Buffett  of
India, said last month he’s “cautious” on the Indian market in
the short term, though he still expects a “multiyear” rally.  For Reliance’s Singhania, the returns from equities reflect
the nation’s earnings growth of at least 15 percent per annum
over the next few years.  Growth Premium  “For a one-month investor, the valuations are not cheap,”
Mumbai-based Singhania said. “If you look from a global
investor’s perspective, who wants to invest in India for four or
five years, we don’t think the valuations are too expensive.
India is commanding a premium for growth and a strong domestic
economy.”  Reliance is betting on shares of drugmakers, capital goods
and infrastructure companies to beat the benchmark indexes,
declining to name specific shares. Indian drugmakers will gain
as more overseas companies outsource manufacturing. His biggest
fund holds shares of Lupin Ltd. and  Divi’s Laboratories Ltd. ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Global investors are feeling that if something untoward
were to happen to the global economy, India would still stand
out,” said Singhania, whose company also manages $500 million
for foreign funds. “We have performed even in the worst
financial crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  