-- Insurers May Increase Exchange-Rate Risk With Foreign Bonds, Daiwa Says
-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2010-10-25T02:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/insurers-may-increase-exchange-rate-risk-with-foreign-bonds-daiwa-says.html
Japanese life insurers may increase
holdings of foreign bonds in the fiscal second half on
speculation a recovery in the U.S. will limit gains in the yen,
according to Daiwa Institute of Research.  Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. , Japan’s third-largest life
insurer, said it may raise investment in foreign bonds by 200
billion yen ($24.6 billion), mostly through purchases of
securities without currency hedges.  Nippon Life Insurance Co. ,
the market leader, plans to maintain or increase holdings of
foreign bonds after raising non-hedged overseas debt by a net
380 billion yen in the first half. The Federal Reserve is
mulling increases in its Treasury purchase program intended to
keep borrowing costs low.  “Life insurers may be expecting that the yen’s advance
against the dollar is poised to halt once the Fed eases monetary
policy in early November,” said  Yuji Kameoka , a Tokyo-based
senior economist at the unit of Japan’s second-largest
brokerage.  Meiji said it expects the yen may fall to 87 per dollar at
the end of March 2011 after rising to as high as 78. The insurer
boosted holdings of non-hedged foreign bonds by 270 billion yen
in the first half from a “medium- to long-term perspective,”
said  Yasuharu Takamatsu , deputy president and head of
investments.  Nippon Life projected the yen may rise to as high as 75
against the dollar and fall to 85 at the end of March.  “We may boost holdings of foreign debt if the yen’s levels
are judged to be relatively cheap,” said  Yosuke Matsunaga ,
general manager of the company’s finance and investment planning
department.  Fed Purchases  The Fed may purchase $2 trillion of assets to stimulate the
U.S. economy and start by announcing a fresh round of easing at
its next meeting that ends on Nov. 3, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
estimates. The central bank bought $300 billion of Treasuries in
2009 under a policy known as quantitative easing, or QE. It said
in August it would reinvest principal payments from its holdings
of mortgage debt in U.S. debt.  With the market having already priced in large-scale asset
purchases by the Fed, inflation expectations are rising in the
U.S., Daiwa’s Kameoka said. The Japanese currency may stop
rising at the 80 per dollar level and weaken to about 87 at the
end of March as Treasury yields rise, he said.  Sumitomo Life Insurance Co.  will “flexibly invest in
foreign bonds in the second half” after a net increase in non-
hedged overseas debt in the first two quarters, according to
Haruhisa Hirata, deputy general manager at the firm’s investment
strategy section.  ‘Sense of Achievement’  There will be a “sense of achievement” if the yen
breaches its postwar high of 79.75 per dollar, and the currency
may “return to a normal range” of 88 by the end of March,
Hirata said.  Global risk aversion amid Europe’s debt crisis and slowing
U.S. growth has driven gains in the yen this year, which tends
to strengthen during economic turmoil as Japan’s trade surplus
makes it less reliant on foreign capital. A stronger domestic
currency hurts the overseas competitiveness of Japanese
exporters.  Japanese life insurers typically eschew riskier assets in
favor of longer-term domestic bonds. Bond  yields  have fallen
amid sluggish growth, with 10-year yields at about 0.8 percent
in Japan compared with about 2.5 percent in the U.S.  The yen reached 80.85 per dollar on Oct. 20, the highest
since April 1995 and up 5.8 percent since Japan intervened to
weaken its currency for the first time in six years on Sept. 15.
It traded as strong as 80.90 versus the greenback today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeki Nozawa  in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  