-- Investment Technology Buys Majestic for $56 Million to Lure More Trading
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-10-25T20:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/investment-technology-buys-majestic-research-for-56-million-gasser-says.html
Investment Technology Group Inc. 
bought Majestic Research Corp. for $56 million in a bid to
attract trading from clients including mutual and hedge funds,
Chief Executive Officer and President  Robert Gasser  said.  Majestic provides  research  on more than 200 companies and
17 industries. It will be renamed ITG Investment Research, with
its roughly 80 employees joining the broker’s 1,140. This is the
biggest takeover for New York-based Investment Technology Group
since its $230 million purchase of MacGregor Group Inc. was
announced in July 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brokerages such as ITG that serve institutions including
mutual funds are facing less business. U.S. stock trading
dropped to the lowest quarterly level since at least 2008 during
the July-through-September period, Bloomberg data show.  “Clients pay for research, they pay for content and they
pay for things that add to the portfolio construction part of
the process,” Gasser said in an interview. Early last year ITG
became concerned about its ability to attract business should
trading volume dwindle, curbing the amount of money customers
could spend on execution. “We spent the next 18 months
surveying the independent research landscape and understanding
that part of our client business more deeply,” Gasser said.
“Majestic stood out.”  ITG  is purchasing Majestic with $53 million in cash and the
rest in stock, Gasser said. His company had $325.9 million in
unrestricted cash as of June 30. Its stock-market value was
$638.7 million as of Oct. 22. The  shares  fell 2.1 percent, the
most since Oct. 4, to $14.64 at 4 p.m. in New York.  74% Retreat  Shares of ITG have dropped 74 percent to $14.95 since they
reached a record high of $58.01 in May 2006. They have slumped
24 percent in 2010.  ITG is a brokerage firm and technology company operating in
the U.S., Canada, Europe and Asia. It provides customers with
algorithms, or strategies that trade blocks gradually based on
the user’s goals and market conditions, systems to track and
process orders in equities and other products, cost analysis of
completed executions, and dark pools, or private venues that
allow firms to trade anonymously with one another without
disclosing their intentions publicly. Its Posit venue became the
first U.S. dark pool operating during the trading day in 1987.  Majestic, formed in 2002 by  Seth Goldstein  and Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Berkman , uses licenses to proprietary
data owned by other companies to provide intelligence on sales
trends in industries such as telecommunications, real estate
airlines. The New York-based company, whose clients include
hedge funds, doesn’t issue buy, hold and sell recommendations, a
practice that will continue at ITG, Gasser said.  Less Trading  Annual U.S. equity trading commissions paid to brokers
totaled $12.1 billion at the end of the first quarter, with 53
percent, or about $6.4 billion, used to pay for research and
related services, according to a June report from  Greenwich
Associates . The average commission rate was 2.8 cents per share,
down from 2.9 cents a year ago, while hedge funds paid 2.5 cents
compared with 2.8 cents in 2009, the Stamford, Connecticut-based
research firm said.  The scramble by brokers for commission dollars has been
exacerbated by declining U.S. trading. ITG traded a daily
average of 158 million shares in September, compared with 199
million shares a year earlier, according to reports published by
the company.  ‘Squeezed’  “Agency brokers are likely to be squeezed in the near term
as buy-side clients struggle to allocate their shrinking equity
pool,”  Michael Mayhew , chairman and global director of research
at Integrity Research Associates LLC in New York, wrote in a
company blog post on Sept. 20. “A number of institutional
investors have started limiting the amount of ‘execution only’
business they do in order to pay their research providers.”
Integrity offers data and advice on research providers.  “We’re going to invest in them and their platform,”
Gasser said of Majestic. ITG wants the research unit to cover
more industries, expand geographically and increase its customer
base among the broker’s clients, he said. Majestic’s Berkman
will join ITG’s executive committee. “We are very aggressively
assimilating the two firms,” Gasser said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 