-- Islamic Bank of Thailand Delays Sukuk to Next Year as Guidelines Awaited
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-10-25T05:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/islamic-bank-of-thailand-delays-sukuk-to-next-year-as-guidelines-awaited.html
The state-run  Islamic Bank of
Thailand  will delay the nation’s first sale of sukuk until early
next year as it awaits new guidelines from the securities
commission, President  Dheerasak Suwannayos  said today.  The bank also plans to start a 1.5 billion baht ($50.2
million) property fund that complies with Shariah law, Dheerasak,
who is also a member of the government’s steering committee
working on the guidelines, said in an interview from Kuala
Lumpur. The lender has hired CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. for the
sukuk issuance, he said.  Thai Securities & Exchange Commission  spokeswoman Charuphan
Intararoong said in July that the guidelines would be published
in the fourth quarter. Thailand wants capital-market products
because demand for Islamic services will increase in coming
years to serve Thai Muslims, who account for 4.3 percent of the
67 million population, she said.  The Thai government is also considering selling 40 billion
baht to 50 billion baht of Islamic bonds to fund infrastructure
projects, Dheerasak said today.  “We are looking further to harmonize the system to
accommodate Islamic financial transactions,” Dheerasak said in
a July 14 interview. “The size of the Thai economy is very
large and the government also has many projects regarding
infrastructure, which is the target of Islamic banks.”  Under a 1946 law, Thailand allows limited use of Islamic
rules in the mostly Muslim Southern provinces for settling
family and inheritance issues. Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
has advocated more development aid for the region, where
separatists have fought for an independent state since Thailand
formally annexed the autonomous Malay-Muslim sultanate in 1902.  Global sales of sukuk have declined 24 percent this year to
$12 billion after reaching a record $31 billion in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Harvey at 
 sharvey6@bloomberg.net  