-- Italian Government's Deficit Cuts Are `Not Ambitious Enough,' Nomura Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-10-25T13:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/italian-government-s-deficit-cuts-are-not-ambitious-enough-nomura-says.html
Italy’s 25 billion euros ($35
billion) in deficit cuts over the next two years are “not
ambitious enough” and “structural reforms” are needed to
boost economic growth and bolster public accounts, Nomura
International Plc economist  Lavinia Santovetti  said.  “Further fiscal consolidation and structural reforms are
necessary” to raise medium-term growth potential and “improve
the sustainability of public finances,” Santovetti said in a
report published today. While the deficit cuts target spending
on health care and pensions, “we think more needs to be done.”  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government passed the
austerity package earlier this year as the country’s borrowing
costs rose amid Europe’s sovereign debt crisis. Italy’s economy
emerged in the third quarter of 2009 from its worst recession
since World War II, expanding 0.5 percent as exports more than
offset flat  consumer spending .  “Evidence suggests that recoveries from economic crises
can often serve as an opportunity to reform,” Santovetti said,
pointing to Germany and the Netherlands as past examples. Still,
Italy lacks “determined political leadership” to push through
an economic overhaul, she said.  “With the looming issue of an ageing population, we think
the waves of pension reforms in the 1990s and 2000s should be
implemented as planned, at a minimum, with further adjustments
needed,” London-based Santovetti wrote.  The Finance Ministry  said  last month that Italy’s  gross
domestic product  will expand 1.2 percent in 2010, up from 1
percent  predicted  in May. The euro area’s third-biggest economy
may miss its goal of cutting the deficit to 5 percent of GDP
this year and 3.9 percent in 2011 should economic growth fall
short of the government’s “optimistic” forecasts, Bank of
Italy Director General  Fabrizio Saccomanni  said on Oct. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  