-- Japan, India Agree on Trade Partnership; Vow to `Accelerate' Nuclear Talks
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-10-25T12:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/japan-india-agree-on-trade-partnership-vow-to-accelerate-nuclear-talks.html
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and
his Indian counterpart,  Manmohan Singh , today agreed in
principle on an economic partnership accord that will abolish
tariffs on 94 percent of bilateral trade in 10 years.  The two countries vowed to work toward an early conclusion
of the pact that will give Japanese companies including  Hitachi
Ltd.  and  Bridgestone Corp.  greater access to the world’s second-
fastest growing major economy after China and its second most-
populous nation. India’s economy expanded 8.8 percent in the
April-June period, a rate of growth matched by Brazil.  “This is a historic achievement,” Singh told reporters.
“This will open up new business opportunities.” The two prime
ministers also agreed on a joint vision for a strategic
partnership, they said.  Singh said today in a speech in Tokyo, the first stop of a
three-nation Asian tour, that there had been a “steady
expansion of trade and investment relations between” India and
Japan. Bilateral trade should exceed  $20 billion  by 2012, he
said. “India-Japan trade is still at a low threshold, apart
from being unbalanced,” Singh said  The two leaders said they had agreed to “accelerate”
talks on a civilian nuclear cooperation pact, for which
negotiations started in June.  Singh told Japanese Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  in a
meeting today that India will continue to uphold its moratorium
on nuclear testing, according to a  statement  on the Foreign
Ministry’s website. Maehara welcomed Singh’s comments, the
ministry said in the statement.  India won access to atomic fuels and technology in
September 2008 when the 45-member Nuclear Suppliers Group lifted
a three-decade ban on exports to the country on a U.S. proposal.  The government aims to expand its nuclear capacity to
60,000 megawatts by 2030 from 4,560 megawatts at the end of July.
India’s total power generation capacity was 163,670 megawatts as
of July 31, according to the Central Electricity Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  