-- Japan Export Growth Slows in Sign of Cooling Rebound
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-25T01:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/japan-exports-expand-at-slowest-pace-this-year-in-sign-of-cooling-rebound.html
Japan’s exports grew at the
slowest pace this year in September, a sign the country is
losing its chief engine for growth as demand abroad tempers.
      Overseas shipments  increased 14.4 percent from a year
earlier, the Finance Ministry said in Tokyo today. The median
estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for
a 9.6 percent gain. From a month earlier, shipments fell a
seasonally adjusted 0.1 percent.  Today’s report adds to signs that Japan’s export-fueled
rebound is cooling, increasing pressure on Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  to implement his stimulus plans and on Bank of
Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  to come up with fresh ways
to support the economy. Manufacturers including  Honda Motor
Co.  are also grappling with the country’s appreciating
currency, which has continued to strengthen even after the
government intervened in the foreign-exchange market last
month.  “Export growth will slow further and keep depressing the
economic expansion,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior
economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo. “It’s highly likely the
economy will contract in the fourth quarter.”  The Japanese currency has gained more than 14 percent
against the dollar this year, threatening to erode exporters’
repatriated earnings from abroad. It traded at 81.10 at 10:29
a.m. in Tokyo compared with 81.33 before the report was
released.  ‘Difficult’  “The yen at anywhere between 90 and 110 makes things
difficult,”  Tatsuhiro Oyama , senior managing director in
charge of Honda’s motorcycle operations, said in an interview
this month. Honda, the world’s largest motorcycle maker and
Japan’s second-largest carmaker, earned more than 80 percent
of its revenue outside Japan in the fiscal year ended March,
Bloomberg data show.  Imports climbed 9.9 percent from a year earlier and the
trade surplus rose to 797 billion yen ($9.8 billion), today’s
report showed.  Japan’s exporters can remain profitable as long as yen
trades at 92.90 per dollar or weaker, according to the
Cabinet Office’s annual survey of companies. The government
intervened in the foreign-exchange market for the first time
since 2004 last month on concern the currency’s advances risk
derailing the export-driven recovery.  Yen Revision  Toyota Motor Corp. expects the yen to trade around 80
for the rest of this fiscal year, the Yomiuri newspaper
reported, without saying where it obtained the information.
The revision from its current assumed rate of 90 yen per
dollar would translate into a reduction in earnings of about
150 billion yen during the period, the report said.  “There’s no doubt that exports are losing momentum, and
they’re likely to slow even more ahead,”  Yoshiki Shinke ,
senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo,
said before the report. “The yen will have a big impact on
exports and will hit corporate profits hard.”  The value of exports to China, Japan’s biggest market,
climbed 10.3 percent in September from a year earlier,
compared with 18.5 percent increase in August. Data last week
showed China’s economy grew at the slowest pace in a year as
inflation accelerated. Exports to the U.S. gained 10.4
percent and shipments to Europe increased 11.2 percent.  Kan’s Cabinet endorsed a 5.1 trillion yen stimulus that
will help local governments and small businesses cope with
the advancing currency, and the central bank on Oct. 5
unexpectedly cut its benchmark interest rate and created an
asset-purchasing fund to support the expansion.  ‘Ill Prepared’  “Policy has improved over the past month but seems ill-
prepared to deal with the persistent yen strength,”  Richard Jerram , head of Asian economics at Macquarie Securities Ltd.
in Tokyo, said in a report. “Japan will be teetering on the
brink of recession over the coming year,” he said,
downgrading his forecast for Japanese growth to 0.5 percent
from 1.1 percent for the year starting April 2011.  The government cut its assessment of the economy for the
first time in 20 months last week, highlighting “weakening”
shipments to Asian nations.  Demand in China may cool further after the country
increased its benchmark interest rate last week for the first
time since 2007. Data last week showed that China’s economy
expanded at the slowest pace in a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  