-- Jenin Flourishes in West Bank With U.S.-Supplied Police Chevys
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-10-26T08:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/jenin-flourishing-as-west-bank-model-with-u-s-supplied-chevy-police-cars.html
Palestinian Brigadier General Radi
Assidi stood on a balcony overlooking a compound filled with
U.S.-donated Chevrolet police vehicles and gazed out at the West
Bank city of Jenin, which he says has had one murder in the last
two years.  Once known as a gang-ruled haven for suicide bombers, Jenin
has turned into a regional magnet for shoppers -- many of them
from Israel. It boasts a five-story mall, a movie theater and
downtown cafes where customers munch on cheese-filled knafeh and
other snacks well after dark.  “Jenin was a symbol of chaos,” said Assidi, area
commander for the paramilitary Palestinian Security Forces.
“The smallest gang had more weapons than the police. Now women
jog in the street and people go to cafes at 10 p.m.” Later that
day, two women in sweatsuits were seen jogging on Azzaytun
Street.  The  Palestinian Authority’s  ability to sustain its success
in rehabilitating Jenin and improving security inside cities
across the West Bank may depend on the outcome of peace talks
with Israel, currently on hold over a dispute about the
construction of Israeli settlements in the West Bank. A failure
in U.S.-mediated negotiations could pose a challenge to their
economic and security achievements, Palestinian leaders say.  “People go to bed at night and all they think about is how
to get rid of this damned occupation,” said Qadoura Mousa,
governor of Jenin and 83 surrounding villages. “It will be very
difficult to control their anger if these talks collapse and
don’t lead to our own state.”  Booming Economy  Palestinian gross domestic product, which includes both the
West Bank and Gaza Strip, grew to $5.1 billion in 2009, said
Mahmoud Jaradat, assistant to the president for statistical
affairs at the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics. It had
fallen to $3.3 billion in 2002 during the second Palestinian
intifada, or uprising, which led Israel to impose military
roadblocks and other restrictions.  It took about 1,000 Palestinian security personnel and
millions of dollars in U.S. aid starting in April 2008 to tame
Jenin, where stores used to shut down at sunset as Kalashnikov-
toting teenagers roamed. The  effort  has spawned similar
operations in Bethlehem, Ramallah and Hebron.  The crackdown, dubbed “Al-Basma wa Amal” or “Smile and
Hope,” was made possible with training, weapons, uniforms and
American-made Chevrolet and Ford patrol cars ordered by Army
Lieutenant General  Keith Dayton , who was sent as U.S. security
coordinator for assisting the Palestinian forces in 2005.  Eight to 100  Dayton, who retired last month, dispensed $290 million
across the West Bank from 2007 through 2009. He was replaced by
U.S. Air Force Lieutenant General  Michael Moeller .  “We had eight vehicles for our security forces in Jenin
before Dayton came and now we have 100,” Assidi said.  Israeli military leaders who have visited Jenin, including
Central Command Chief Avi Mizrachi, said they were impressed at
how Palestinian law enforcement operates, particularly in the
adjacent refugee camp that was home to 23 suicide bombers, a
senior Defense Ministry official said. He was speaking
anonymously under military regulations.  Israel lost 23 soldiers when it raided the refugee camp in
April 2002, killing 52 Palestinians.  The Israeli government “has taken a series of steps to
facilitate Palestinian economic development, which we see as
providing a better atmosphere for the peace talks,” said  Mark Regev , a spokesman for Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu . “The
fruits of this policy are starting to be seen in major cities
across the West Bank, such as Jenin.”  Hamas Killings  Not all the West Bank is peaceful or prosperous. Gunmen
from Hamas killed four Jewish settlers in August outside the
southern city of Hebron. Many villages have unpaved roads, with
spotty provision of water and electricity.  Hamas, which violently seized control of the Gaza Strip in
2007 after winning Palestinian legislative elections the
previous year, is considered a terrorist group by Israel, the
U.S. and the European Union.  A key to Jenin’s economic recovery has been Israel’s
decision to let Arab citizens from Umm al-Fahm and other Israeli
cities cross into the West Bank and shop in Jenin. Mayor Ali
Shadi said Jenin’s city government finished last year with $4
million in its coffers after a $15 million deficit in 2008.  About 23,000 cars from Israel pass through military
checkpoints and reach Jenin every month, pumping $3.3 million
into the local economy, according to records compiled by the
Defense Ministry’s Civil Administration unit, which governs the
West Bank.  Toy Story  At  Cinema Jenin , restored in August with help from German
donors after being shuttered for 23 years, youngsters waited in
line in the afternoon to see the first Toy Story movie, while a
series of Egyptian films were screened later in the day.  Jenin has long been the West Bank’s breadbasket, surrounded
by fertile fields that produce wheat, almonds, dates and
watermelon. Among its biggest companies,  Canaan Fair Trade Co. 
exports organic olive oil and sun-dried tomatoes and Haddad
Industrial Group makes plows and other agricultural equipment.  The  Palestinian Investment Fund , an arm of the Palestinian
Authority, is building a $100-million suburban community called
Al-Jinan, with 1,000 apartments and homes designed to attract
middle-income families.  At the security compound, Assidi says his forces won’t
allow another round of violence to break out in the region of
268,000 people he oversees, even if the peace talks fail.  “We are talking about a different intifada, not of stones
and weapons, but of independence and development,” Assidi said.
“We’ll fight an economic intifada and build our state, no
matter how long it takes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Jenin through the Tel Aviv newsroom at
   jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  