-- Bank of America, JPMorgan Get Texas Subpoenas on Foreclosures
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/jpmorgan-bank-of-america-subpoenaed-by-texas-attorney-general.html
Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and seven other banks or loan servicers were
subpoenaed by Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  for information
about their foreclosure practices, a spokesman said.  “The state is subpoenaing information and documents,”
Jerry Strickland, the spokesman, said yesterday in an interview.
He didn’t elaborate. The state also subpoenaed  Ally Financial
Inc. , CitiMortgage Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co.   Abbott began investigating foreclosure practices in Texas
following the disclosure of a December deposition in which an
employee of Ally’s GMAC Mortgage unit testified that his team
signed about 10,000 documents a month without verifying their
accuracy. On Oct. 13, all 50 state attorneys general announced a
joint investigation of foreclosures.  The Texas subpoenas followed letters sent by Abbott’s
office to 30 loan servicers on Oct. 4, asking them to halt
foreclosures in the state pending a review of their practices.  Abbott asked banks then to identify employees who filed
faulty affidavits or other documents in the state and identify
foreclosures that used such documents. He also asked lenders and
servicers to halt all sales of properties previously foreclosed
upon and stop all evictions.  Twenty-six of those companies responded to the letters,
according to a spreadsheet of answers sent yesterday by
Strickland.  JPMorgan Findings  JPMorgan  “admits to finding affidavits signed by other
personnel and not by the affiant,” Abbott’s office said in the
document. “Also admits to some instances where signed without
notary. Despite these issues, Chase feels the affidavits are
accurate.”  The bank “plans to file replacement affidavits in all
pending foreclosures and making changes to ensure affidavits are
notarized legally,” according to the document.  Wells Fargo ’s review of its practices “validated that
processes/procedures are accurate,” the attorney general’s
office said in its summary of that bank’s response.  Bank of America  “is currently reviewing its processes to
ensure that they comport with best practices,” according to the
summary.  Ally responded to the attorney general in an e-mail that it
had suspended foreclosures as of Oct. 6, the state said. Ally
reported, “Working hard to resolve any problems. Once they know
for certain that problems do not exist, they will resume
foreclosure sales.”  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, declined
to comment on the subpoena.  ‘Working Diligently’  “We’re working diligently to review and remediate the
potentially affected files,” she said in an interview. “We
have not found evidence of inappropriate foreclosures” in this
review, she said.  The company is “only moving forward” on foreclosure sales
that have been reviewed and “deemed appropriate,” she said.  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment.  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, said the
company doesn’t comment on subpoenas. Vickee Adams, a
spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 