-- Copper Exchange-Traded Fund Planned by JPMorgan, According to SEC Filing
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-10-25T09:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/jpmorgan-to-start-physical-copper-exchange-traded-fund-sec-filing-shows.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, plans to introduce an exchange-
traded fund for copper, seeking to benefit from increased
investment demand for the metal used in pipes and wires.  Shares in the J.P. Morgan Physical Copper Trust will trade
on the New York Stock Exchange “as soon as practicable”, the
New York-based bank said in a filing to the Securities and
Exchange Commission, without giving a precise date. The Wall
Street Journal reported on the bank’s filing earlier today.  ETFs trade like stocks, enabling investors access to
commodities such as gold without taking physical delivery of
them. Commodity prices including metals and grains surged today
as investors sought alternatives to a  weakening dollar . Copper
in London has gained 29 percent over the past year on declining
stockpiles, increased demand and the weaker U.S. currency.  “There is a view that such an ETF would be bullish for
prices,”  Peter Richardson , chief metals economist at Morgan
Stanley, said today by phone from Melbourne. “We might also see
prices that are so high that they trigger demand destruction.”  Three-month copper futures on the London Metal Exchange
gained as much as 2.6 percent to $8,549 a metric ton today,
taking gains this year to about 16 percent. The metal reached a
record $8,940 a ton in July 2008 before the global credit crisis
drove prices to a low of $2,817.25 in December that year.  Physical Copper  “The shares are intended to provide institutional and
retail investors with a simple and cost-efficient means, with
minimal credit risks, of gaining investment benefits similar to
those of holding physical copper,” said the filing, which was
dated Oct. 22. Each share will be equivalent to one-hundredth of
a ton, backed by grade-A metal, not futures, the filing said.  ETF Securities Ltd. said on Oct. 11 that it’s preparing to
start exchange-traded commodity funds backed by six industrial
metals. Aluminum is the most likely base metal to be used to
back an exchange-traded product, according a Bloomberg News
survey of 16 analysts the same month.  Copper stockpiles monitored by exchanges in London, New
York and Shanghai totaled 543,932 tons as of Oct. 22, down 21
percent this year. That’s about 11 days of global consumption
based on the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc estimate for
demand this year of 18.2 million tons, down from almost 14 days
at the start of 2010.  ‘Price Reaction’  “Of all the base metals, copper has the lowest level of
inventory both on a historical basis but also on a stock-
consumption basis,” said  Catherine Raw , a fund manager at
Blackrock Inc. who helps manage the company’s flagship $14.2
billion World Mining Fund. “We would see a price reaction” to
a copper ETF, Raw said today on a conference call in Australia.  Record holdings of gold-backed, exchange-traded products
together with the rally in LME prices and low interest rates in
developed economies were encouraging banks to introduce funds
backed by base metals, said Morgan Stanley’s Richardson.  Gold assets in exchange traded products declined 0.9 ton to
2,098 tons as of Oct. 22, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from 10 providers. Holdings reached a record 2,104.65
tons on Oct. 14, the same day that spot gold climbed to an all-
time high of $1,387.35 an ounce.  JPMorgan agreed in February to pay $1.7 billion for RBS
Sempra Commodities LLP’s global oil and metal activities and its
European power and gas assets. Through the acquisition, the bank
inherited  Henry Bath & Son Ltd. , which operates commodity
warehouses worldwide, its website shows.  Copper for the new product will be initially held at Henry
Bath’s storage in the U.S., the so-called cheapest-to-deliver
location, JPMorgan said in the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  