-- JSW Plans $1.2 Billion Initial Offering to Expand in Polish Coal Industry
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-10-25T12:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/jsw-plans-1-2-billion-initial-offering-to-expand-in-polish-coal-industry.html
Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA, the
Polish company that’s the European Union’s largest coking coal
producer, plans to sell 3.5 billion zloty ($1.2 billion) of
shares by June in what may be the country’s biggest initial
public offering next year.  The state-owned company, which would be the second Polish
coal producer to start trading in Warsaw after  Lubelski Wegiel
Bogdanka SA , plans to sell 1.5 billion zloty of new shares to
finance expansion, and the government could sell an additional 2
billion zloty, cutting its stake to 51 percent, Chief Executive
Officer Jaroslaw Zagorowski said in an interview today.  Poland has sped up asset sales to help finance the widening
budget deficit. This year the government has sold stakes in its
largest energy, phone, insurance and copper companies, seeking
to raise 25 billion zloty.  “Our IPO is set to be the largest by a Polish company next
year,” said Zagorowski. “We need funds to expand and the
government wants to sell shares, as it also needs cash.”  JSW , based in the southern Polish city of Jastrzebie Zdroj,
plans to spend around 1 billion zloty in each of the next
several years to expand existing mines, buy new facilities and
diversify into power production. Apart from selling new shares,
the company could also sell bonds and take bank loans to finance
its investment program, Zagorowski said.  “Power production is set to be our hedge” against a slump
in the coal market, he said. “That’s a long-term project and
our plan will be to produce power from waste, for example from
coke gas, methane or low-quality coal.”  Operating six mines in southern Poland, JSW will produce as
much as 14 million tons of coal this year and expects revenue to
exceed 10 billion zloty. Full-year net income is likely to stand
at around 500 million zloty in 2010 and will increase next year,
Zagorowski said.  JSW’s customers include ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest
steel producer, as well as U.S. Steel Corp. and Voestalpine AG
of Austria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  