-- JSW May Bid for Poland’s Bogdanka, Challenging NWR
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-10-25T14:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/jsw-of-poland-may-bid-for-bogdanka-mine-challenging-new-world-resources.html
Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA, the
Polish company that’s the European Union’s largest coking-coal
producer, may bid for Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA, which New
World Resources NV is seeking to buy.  “We don’t rule out a bid,”  Jaroslaw Zagorowski , chief
executive officer of the company known as JSW, told Bloomberg
News in an interview in Warsaw today. “ Bogdanka  is interesting
because of its coal deposits and development program,” said
Zagorowski, whose company is set to hold a $1.2 billion initial
public offering that could be Warsaw’s biggest next year.  Bogdanka  shares  jumped as much as 7.7 percent to 115 zloty
in Warsaw trading today, extending gains from before the news
was published, and closed at a record level of 109 zloty.  JSW, based in the southern Polish city of Jastrzebie Zdroj,
hasn’t spoken with either Bogdanka’s management or its
shareholders, Zagorowski said. Nor has state-owned JSW also
consulted the potential investment with the government, he said,
adding that at the moment buying Bogdanka shares isn’t part of
JSW’s investment program.  “We have the money. If Bogdanka’s management turns to us
with an offer, we could consider such an investment,”
Zagorowski said.  Tomasz Zieba , a spokesman for Bogdanka, declined to comment
when reached by phone by Bloomberg News. Joe Cook, a spokesman
for NWR, also declined to comment.  ‘Drastically’ Low Bid  Amsterdam-based  New World Resources , known as NWR, the
biggest coking coal producer in the Czech Republic, bid 3.43
billion zloty ($1.2 billion) for Bogdanka this month. The Polish
company’s management rejected the offer as “drastically” low.  NWR’s bid may fail after two Polish pension funds rejected
the offer. Funds run by a local unit of Aviva Plc, the biggest
single shareholder, with 15 percent, and Alico, which holds 5.1
percent, said Oct. 6 Bogdanka is worth more than the Czech
company is offering.  NWR refused to increase its bid after Bogdanka shares rose
above the offered price of 100.75 zloty a share.  Bogdanka shares gained 22 percent from Oct. 5, when NWR
announced its bid.  JSW’s Zagorowski declined to comment on the price the
company could pay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net 
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  