-- Karzai Says Iran Provides `Transparent' Financial Aid in Euros or Dollars
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-25T09:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/karzai-says-iran-provides-transparent-financial-aid-in-euros-or-dollars.html
The government of Iran provides
“very transparent” financial aid to Afghanistan once or twice
a year, Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  said on state television
today.  Iran has offered assistance in euros or dollars since “the
transitional government of Afghanistan was established,” Karzai
told reporters today during a joint press conference with the
president of Tajikistan,  Emomali Rakhmon . “Sometimes it gives
500,000 euros and sometimes less,” Karzai said, adding his
chief of staff, Umar Daudzai, receives the money according to
“my orders.”  The New York Times reported yesterday that, in August,
Iran’s ambassador to Afghanistan, Feda Hussein Maliki, gave a
plastic bag filled with euros to Daudzai on Karzai’s personal
aircraft. The Times cited an Afghan official who spoke to the
newspaper on condition of anonymity.  The payment, part of a stream that totals millions of
dollars, was intended to promote Iran’s interests and to counter
U.S. and other Western influence in Afghanistan, the Times said,
citing unidentified Afghan and Western officials in Kabul.  The U.S. said yesterday that Iran shouldn’t interfere with
Afghanistan’s internal affairs.  “We understand that Iran and Afghanistan are neighbors and
will have a relationship,”  Philip J. Crowley , a State
Department spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement “But Iran
should not interfere with the internal affairs of the Afghan
government.”  Karzai said today the Iranian money is spent on the
“construction of the Afghan government.”  Iran has been providing funding for the government, as well
as for its Taliban opponents, the Times reported, citing an
unidentified senior NATO officer.  The militant Islamic Taliban controlled Afghanistan and
sheltered the al-Qaeda terrorist network before being ousted by
a U.S.-led invasion of the country following the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  