-- Kazkommertsbank Faces `Risk' of Breaching Financial Covenant on EBRD Loan
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2010-10-25T13:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/kazkommertsbank-faces-risk-of-breaching-financial-covenant-on-ebrd-loan.html
Kazkommertsbank , Kazakhstan’s
largest lender by assets, said there’s a “risk” it may breach
financial covenants on a $300 million loan from the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  Under its agreement with the EBRD, Kazkommertsbank’s
operating expenses may not exceed 70 percent of operating
income, and the bank is presently at 69.1 percent, the lender
said in a  statement  on the London Stock Exchange Group Plc
website today.  “Should the financial performance of the bank deteriorate,
it could breach this covenant, triggering cross-default and
cross-acceleration provisions in most of its other financing
arrangements,” Kazkommertsbank said in a prospectus on its $2
billion debt-issuance program. This “would have a material
adverse affect on the bank’s business, financial condition,
results of operations and prospects.”  Kazkommertsbank’s London shares extended losses, dropping
as much as 1.7 percent on the news to $5.80, according to
Bloomberg data. The shares were trading down 0.9 percent at
$5.85 at 2:23 p.m. in London.  Kazkommertsbank saw net income fall 76 percent in the first
nine months to 54 million tenge ($365,890) in the year through
Oct. 1 from 223.8 million tenge in the year-earlier period,
according to the Almaty-based Financial Supervision Agency.  The lender plans to sell as much as $750 million of seven-
year bonds, the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange said on Oct. 14. UBS
AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are organizing the sale, the
exchange said.  Kazkommertsbank said it’s in talks with the EBRD to amend
the terms of its loan, under which $178.2 million of principal
was outstanding as of June 30, “but there can be no assurance
that these negotiations will be successful.”  Yevgenia Yevstigneyeva, a spokeswoman for the Almaty-based
unit of EBRD, wasn’t immediately available for comment. The EBRD
owns 9.77 percent of Kazkommertsbank’s common shares, according
to the Kazakh lender’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nariman Gizitdinov  in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  