-- King Says Banks Need More Equity to Avoid Debt `Achilles Heel'
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/king-says-banks-need-much-more-equity-to-cut-debt-dependence.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said banks should seek more money from stock investors to reduce
dependence on short-term debt and protect taxpayers from further
bailouts of “too important to fail” institutions.  “The broad answer to the problem is likely to be
remarkably simple,” King said in a speech in New York late
yesterday. “Banks should be financed much more heavily by
equity rather than short-term debt. Much, much more equity;
much, much less short-term debt. Risky investments cannot be
financed in any other way.”  Regulators are redesigning the global financial system to
withstand shocks after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008 exacerbated the financial crisis. While the Basel
III banking rules agreed last month are “a step in the right
direction,” they won’t prevent another crisis and authorities
should consider “very much higher” capital levels, King said.  “Banks should take advantage of opportunities to raise
loss-absorbing capital and should recognize the importance of
using profits to rebuild capital rather than pay out higher
dividends and compensation,” King said.  King said that the banking system’s “Achilles heel” is
still its reliance on short-term debt.  “Risky long-term assets are funded by short-term
deposits” and “that makes banks so hazardous,” King said.
“Many treat loans to banks as if they were riskless. In
isolation, this would be akin to a belief in alchemy. To work,
financial alchemy requires the implicit support of the
taxpayer.”  Public Support  Implied public support can encourage banks to take on risk,
grow in size and become “too important to fail,” he said.  The governor said new capital rules alone won’t shield
taxpayers from funding any future bailouts. A combination of
measures including a bank levy, the separation of riskier
financial activities from more stable ones, the creation of
“special arrangements” for vital institutions and resolution
procedures should all be considered, King said.  “There is merit in having a basket of different measures
to rein in excessive risk-taking,” he said. “In the area of
financial stability, it makes sense to have both belt and
braces.”  The idea proposed by Boston University Professor  Laurence J. Kotlikoff  of “limited purpose banking,” where a bank’s
investments are turned into a mutual fund, is also “an idea
worthy of further study,” King said.  Taxpayer Bailouts  “Ultimately, we need a system whereby the suppliers of
funds to risky activities, whether intermediated via banks or
any other entity, must understand that they will not be
protected from loss by taxpayer bailouts,” the governor said.
“Creditors should know that they will bear losses in the event
of failure.”  Banks worldwide are grappling with the new rules approved
in September by international regulators, meeting as the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision. While King said the new rules
on capital levels should be welcomed, they were “insufficient
to prevent another crisis.”  Even though the Bank of England would have preferred higher
capital ratios, it has no intention of asking U.K. banks to
adopt a faster timetable for implementation of the Basel III
regulations than the current deadline of 2019, King said.  “What we cannot countenance is a continuation of the
system in which bank executives trade and take risks on their
own account, and yet those who finance them are protected from
loss by the implicit taxpayer guarantees,” he said.  King spoke at the Buttonwood Gathering, a conference
organized by the Economist magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  