-- Korean Companies Avoid Chinese `Goliath' in Overseas M&A Push
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-10-25T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/korean-companies-avoid-china-goliath-in-race-for-resources-acquisitions.html
Korea National Oil Corp. President
 Kang Young Won  had a message for investment bankers pitching
acquisition targets for the state-owned company early this year:
Be mindful of competition from China.  In June 2009, Kang had failed to buy Addax Petroleum Corp.
after China Petrochemical Corp. made a higher offer. He
rebounded with a $3.9 billion purchase of Canada’s Harvest
Energy Trust in October that year -- a deal that didn’t involve
a rival Chinese suitor. The experiences convinced Kang that his
company should steer clear of competition from China in overseas
takeovers, a person briefed by the executive said.  South Korean companies armed with record amounts of cash
are stepping up overseas acquisitions to secure raw materials
and energy for an economy that relies on imports for almost all
its needs. Key to the push is learning how to work around bigger,
better-capitalized  Chinese companies , according to bankers who
advised on cross-border deals this year.  “China is aggressive and they have their own network, but
they can’t cover every inch,” said James Yoon, head of Korea at
MBK Partners, a private equity fund focused on South Korea,
China and Japan. “So we have to find areas where there’s a
niche or a slack in the Chinese coverage.”  Korean companies have announced $15.3 billion of purchases
abroad this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, up
from $11.5 billion for all of 2009. Among the 10 biggest such
deals, most didn’t feature a competitive bid from a Chinese
contender, said bankers with knowledge of the transactions.  ‘Taboo’ Broken  More deals may follow as companies on the  Korea Exchange 
deploy the record 85 trillion won ($75 billion) of cash and
equivalents they held at the end of 2009. Companies that hoarded
cash because of uncertainty about the global economic recovery
are now getting ready to start spending it, said  Steve Lim , CEO
of Korean operations at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Last year, we were doing a lot of pitching; this year,
we’ve gotten a lot of enquiries,” Lim said. “As Korean
companies are still sitting on a huge pile of cash, they’re
ready to go overseas to secure raw materials, intellectual
property and to gain market share.”  In August, Korea National Oil, known as KNOC, made a 1.87
billion pound ($2.9 billion) offer for U.K. explorer  Dana
Petroleum Plc  in the first hostile overseas takeover by a South
Korean company. A majority of Dana shareholders accepted the bid
in September.  KNOC’s deal “breaks the taboo,” said Yoon of MBK Partners.
“It’s going to encourage others to consider non-friendly
transactions and make the M&A market more efficient.” Bank of 
America Corp. advised Korea National on its acquisitions of 
Harvest Energy and Dana Petroleum.  Outbound Deals  Outbound investment accounted for 45 percent of total M&A
involving local companies since Jan. 1, the largest share since
Bloomberg began tracking the data in 1999. The biggest year for
overseas acquisitions by Korean firms was 2008, when $21 billion
of such deals were announced.  South Korea’s National Pension Service said Oct. 12 it
bought a stake in Colonial Pipeline Co., operator of the largest
pipeline linking U.S. Gulf Coast refiners and East Coast markets.
It was the $270 billion fund’s fourth acquisition this year.  Lotte Group, owner South Korea’s largest department-store
chain; Posco, the country’s biggest steelmaker;  Samsung
Electronics Co. , the world’s largest television maker; and SK
Telecom Co., the nation’s biggest mobile-phone carrier, are
among those scouting for acquisitions abroad, according to
bankers who have been in discussions with the companies and
asked to remain anonymous.  ‘David and Goliath’  As they venture abroad, South Korean acquirers should seek
to avoid competing directly for assets with Chinese companies,
said Harrison Jung, head of corporate finance at Samjong KPMG
Advisory Inc. Chinese firms made $155 billion of acquisitions of
energy and raw materials assets in the past three years, or
almost seven times that of their South Korean counterparts, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s like a battle of David and Goliath, given China’s
funding capability,” Jung said. “We advise clients who are
searching for the right target to avoid public deals as they
usually run a higher risk of competition from Chinese firms.”  Tullow Oil Plc, the U.K. explorer with the most drilling
licenses in Africa, last year canceled the planned sale of a
$435 million stake in a project in Congo to Korea National,
citing opposition from the African state. The U.K. company is
now selling oil field assets in Uganda to China’s Cnooc Ltd. and
 Total SA  of France.  Jung said a South Koran client ended up investing in a
Brazilian iron ore company after seeing its bid for an
Australian firm beaten by a Chinese rival. He declined to
identify the companies. Samjong KPMG is the third-ranked M&A
adviser in South Korea this year, Bloomberg data show.  China’s Cash  On Oct. 9 last year, KNOC’s Kang told South Korean
lawmakers the company would look for acquisitions in developed
markets like the U.S., Canada and Australia, where competition
from Chinese companies was less intense. Thirteen days later,
the agreement to buy Canada’s Harvest Energy was announced.  The 553 companies on the Korea Exchange boosted their cash
holdings by 19.5 percent last year, according to data from the
bourse. Cash piles may have swelled further this year, driven by
a surge in exports that propelled economic growth to 7.6 percent
in the first half.  “Korean companies were very cautious previously because
they have limited experience in managing foreign firms,” said
 Jae Wook Yoo , head of Korea investment banking at Morgan Stanley.
“However, confidence levels have been increasing and they are
focused on identifying new growth drivers.”  Taking on China Inc. remains a tall order. Chinese
 corporate bank deposits , a proxy for the amount of cash the
nation’s companies wield, swelled to a record $3.5 trillion in
September, according to central bank data. That’s more than the
total capitalization of Britain’s stock market.  Import Nation  John Walker , chairman of Macquarie Group Ltd.’s South
Korean unit, said he expects cross-border transactions to
account for about half of the deals his firm works on in 2011,
compared with 30 percent now, as local companies are driven by
the need to secure resources supplies.  “We’re often contacted by people saying, ‘We’re after
resources investments’,” he said in an interview. “Many of the
CEOs who may have a proposal to bring up haven’t actually been
involved in buying something offshore. It’s so new to them.”  South Korea, which relies on imports for almost all its
energy and minerals ranging from oil to gas and iron ore, is
boosting investments in overseas resources projects to secure
supplies to feed the fourth-biggest economy in Asia. The nation
is Asia’s fourth-biggest steel producer, according to data from
the World Steel Association.  SK Networks Co.  in September agreed to pay $700 million for
a stake in Brazil’s MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA in the biggest
investment in iron ore by a South Korean company. At the time,
SK Networks said the deal may help it secure 9 million metric
tons of the commodity a year, or 17 percent of South Korea’s
annual consumption.  “Selecting targets on which Chinese competitors aren’t as
keen is one way for Korean companies to get things done,” said
Jung of Samjong KPMG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  