-- KPMG Under Investigation in U.K. Over Audits of BAE Systems Back to 1997
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-25T10:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/kpmg-probed-in-u-k-over-10-years-of-audits-at-defense-company-bae-systems.html
KPMG International’s U.K. unit is
being investigated by Britain’s accounting regulator over its
audits of  BAE Systems Plc , the defense company that has agreed
to plead guilty to bookkeeping irregularities.  The probe will cover KPMG’s audits from 1997 to 2007 and
relates to commissions paid by London-based BAE through “any
route to subsidiaries, agents and any connected companies,” the
Financial Reporting Council  said today  on its website.  “The firm does not believe there has been any act of
misconduct,” Mark Hamilton, a KPMG spokesman in London, said
today in an e-mailed statement. “It will of course be
cooperating fully.”  BAE, Europe’s largest defense company, in February agreed
to pay almost $450 million to resolve bribery and fraud probes
by U.S. prosecutors and the U.K.’s  Serious Fraud Office . The
company pleaded guilty in the U.S. and has agreed to plead
guilty in the U.K. to accounting irregularities.  The investigation covers advice or tax work by KPMG related
to commission payments from BAE as well as the “status,
operation or disclosability” of entities tied to BAE known as
Red Diamond Trading Ltd., Poseidon Trading Investments Ltd. and
Novelmight Ltd., according to the statement. The probe is being
conducted by the regulator’s Accountancy and Actuarial
Discipline Board.  The accounting watchdog hasn’t indicated “that it has any
basis for reaching a view that there is any material inaccuracy
in any of the company’s accounts,” BAE spokeswoman Leonie
Foster said today in a phone interview.  Guilty Plea  BAE agreed to pay $400 million to the U.S. and plead guilty
to one count of conspiring to make false statements. The company
also agreed to pay a 30 million-pound ($47 million) fine in the
U.K. for failing to keep proper payment records.  The settlements resolved years of probes into BAE’s
dealings in countries including Tanzania, South Africa and the
Czech Republic. A settlement of the matter was delayed while two
anti-arms groups sought unsuccessfully to block the deal.  The SFO scrapped its probe into BAE in 2006 over bribes
allegedly paid to win deals in Saudi Arabia after then-Prime
Minister  Tony Blair  said charges might harm relations between
the two countries, posing a threat to national security.  The Financial Reporting Council earlier this month started
separate investigations of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Ernst
& Young LLP over their reports on customers’ compliance with
U.K. rules to protect client money. The probes relate to PwC’s
work for JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s London unit and Ernst & Young’s
reports for a U.K.-based unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 