-- Natural Gas Drops to 13-Month Low in New York on Warm Weather, Surplus
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-10-25T19:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/natural-gas-drops-to-13-month-low-in-new-york-on-warm-weather-surplus.html
Natural gas fell to the lowest price
in more than 13 months as forecasts showed warmer-than-usual
weather in the U.S., reducing demand for the heating fuel.  Temperatures will be above normal in the East this week and
the Midwest next week, according to MDA Federal Inc.’s EarthSat
Energy Weather in Rockville, Maryland. Gas inventories were 8.4
percent above the five-year average in the week ended Oct. 15,
Energy Department data showed.  “We are seeing above-average temperatures for all of the
eastern part of the country and we may continue to see large
storage injections,” said  Julio Sera , a broker with Hencorp
Becstone Futures in Miami. “If things continue like they are,
there is really no reason why gas may not test $3 before the end
of November.”  Natural gas for November delivery fell 1.5 cent, or 0.5
percent, to $3.317 per million British thermal units on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement price since
Sept. 14, 2009. Gas futures have declined 41 percent this year
and have been trading at or near 13-month lows since the middle
of this month.  The November contract expires on Oct. 27. The more active
December contract fell 2.7 cents to $3.666 per million Btu.  New York will have a high of 71 degrees Fahrenheit (22
Celsius) tomorrow, 11 degrees above average, according to
 AccuWeather Inc . in State College, Pennsylvania. Boston will
have a high of 70 degrees.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the Energy Department.  “We’re seeing some seasonally mild weather that’s really
depressing demand at this point,” said  Cameron Horwitz , an
analyst with Canaccord Genuity in Houston. “Some of the
forecasts are predicting a warmer-than-normal winter, so it
doesn’t really look like there’s much hope of burning off excess
inventories.”  Mild Weather  Warmer-than-normal weather is likely in the U.S. Mid-
Atlantic, South, and parts of the Midwest and Southwest this
winter, Commodity Weather Group meteorologists led by  Matt Rogers  in Bethesda, Maryland, said in an outlook today.  Temperatures may average one or two degrees below normal in
parts of the upper Midwest and northern New England, Commodity
Weather Group said.  Gas stockpiles rose 93 billion cubic feet in the week ended
Oct. 15 to 3.683 trillion, the Energy Department reported last
week, a record increase for the month of October. The five-year
average gain for the week is 54 billion cubic feet.  “Forecasts for mild weather in the next few weeks spell a
continued high pace of injections, and storage could well exceed
last year’s levels before the season ends,” said  James R. Crandell , an analyst at Barclays Capital in New York, in a note
to clients.  November Record  Stockpiles climbed to a record 3.837 trillion cubic feet
last November before cooler weather spurred demand for the
heating fuel and began to reduce supplies.  The number of U.S. gas drilling rigs totaled 965 last week,
33 percent higher than a year earlier, according to data from
Houston-based Baker Hughes Inc.  Wholesale natural gas at the benchmark Henry Hub in Erath,
Louisiana, tumbled 26 cents, or 7.5 percent, to $3.19 per
million Btu on the Intercontinental Exchange.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
162,034 as of 2:41 p.m., compared with a three-month average of
267,000. Volume was 201,183 on Oct. 22. Open interest was
815,910 contracts, compared with the three-month average of
809,000. The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting
open interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  