-- NCAA Accused in Rice Player's Suit of Antitrust Violations on Scholarship
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-10-25T22:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/ncaa-accused-in-rice-player-s-suit-of-antitrust-violations-on-scholarships.html
The National Collegiate Athletic
Association was sued by a Rice University student over claims it
conspires with colleges to prohibit multiyear athletic
scholarships.  Former Rice football player  Joseph Agnew  sued the NCAA in
federal court in California, seeking to also represent other
student athletes who received one-year scholarships that weren’t
renewed. Agnew, who started for Rice in Houston as a freshman in
2006 and lost his scholarship after on-the-field injuries before
his junior year, said he and other such athletes face two
“unpalatable options.”  “They can pay tuition out of pocket, often by taking on
tens of thousands in loans, or they are forced to uproot
themselves and transfer to another institution that will provide
them with a scholarship,” according the complaint filed today
by Agnew’s law firm,  Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP .  The NCAA’s alleged prohibition on multiyear athletic
scholarships and limits on the number of scholarships each
member school can award drives up the cost of a four-year
education for student athletes, the Seattle-based law firm said
in the complaint. If colleges were forced to compete for
students without such limits, the number of scholarships would
increase and more students would be offered multiyear awards,
according to the complaint.  The NCAA and its members, through their agreement not to
offer multiyear scholarships, conspired to restrain trade in
violation of federal antitrust law by artificially inflating the
price of a bachelor’s degree for athletes such as Agnew,
according to the complaint.  Bob Williams, an NCAA spokesman, didn’t immediately return
a message left at the NCAA media office.  The case is Agnew v. NCAA, 10-04804, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 