-- Nestle’s Ecuador Unit Plans $74 Million Debt Sale
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-10-25T19:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/nestle-ecuador-plans-74-million-bond-issue-for-investment-refinancing.html
The Ecuadorean unit of  Nestle SA ,
the world’s largest food company, plans to sell $74 million of
debt to refinance loans and boost spending on technology in the
South American country, BankWatch Ratings del Ecuador SA said.  Nestle Ecuador SA  plans to sell the debt in four series
with maturities between three and seven years, according to
Carlos Ordonez, director of structured finance at BankWatch
Ratings, a local affiliate of London-based Fitch Ratings Ltd.
that was asked by the company to rate the bonds. The debt, with
interest rates between 7.25 percent and 8.75 percent, is
guaranteed by Nestle’s future sales in Ecuador, Ordonez said.  Ecuadorean companies are taking advantage of an increase in
domestic liquidity to tap local markets for funding after a
February central bank decree forced banks to raise the amount of
money they keep at home, said Juan Lutyk, chief executive
officer of Guayaquil-based brokerage Intervalores Casa de
Valores SA. The measure has increased demand for corporate debt
and is lowering borrowing costs, he said.  “There should be a lot of demand because there’s a lot of
liquidity in the banks,” Lutyk said today in a telephone
interview. “They are looking to buy all the private debt they
can.”  Nestle Ecuador’s Chief Financial Officer Santiago Noboa
couldn’t comment on the sale, an assistant said today by
telephone.  Nestle Ecuador plans to sell $20 million of 3-year bonds
with an interest rate of 7.25 percent, $15 million of 5-year
bonds at 7.75 percent, $35 million of 7-year bonds at 8.25
percent and $4 million of 7-year bonds at 8.75 percent, Ordonez
said.  Local Rating  BankWatch Ratings gave the debt a ‘AAA’ local rating,
citing the company’s “excellent capacity” to meet liquidity
goals and the “support” of Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle,
according to Ordonez.  Ecuadorean companies have sold $845 million of debt in the
year through September, with an average interest rate of between
7.5 percent and 8.5 percent, Mauricio Lopez, director of
research at the nation’s Superintendent of Companies, said today
in a telephone interview from Quito. The sale, which was
approved by government regulators on Oct. 19, would be the
nation’s biggest since 2006 for a company outside the banking
industry, Lopez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  