-- New Look Chief Says U.K. Retailer's IPO Has `Never Been off the Agenda'
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-10-25T14:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/new-look-ceo-mcphail-says-public-offering-has-never-been-off-the-agenda-.html
New Look Group Ltd. ’s chief
executive officer said an initial public offering has “never
been off the agenda” since the U.K. fashion retailer postponed
plans for a $1 billion IPO in February.  “We never ruled anything in or out, we just said this
moment in time is not the right time,”  Carl McPhail  said today
in an interview at the  World Retail Congress  in Berlin.  New Look blamed “an unfavorable market backdrop” for the
IPO’s postponement earlier this year, the second time private-
equity companies Permira Advisers LLP and Apax Partners
Worldwide LLP have tried to sell the retailer. Recent sentiment
among shoppers has been “a bit tougher,” with the threat of
unemployment the biggest concern for its younger, female
customer base, the CEO said.  New Look, based in London, started its first-ever
television advertising campaign this year, publicizing
promotions such as 20 percent off outerwear, the executive said.  Sales at its French chain MIM are “recovering,” though
conditions remain difficult in Ireland, he said. The retailer
reported same-store sales slumped 12 percent at its
international unit last year.  Clothing prices will rise by 4 percent this fiscal year,
McPhail said, as the retailer passes on rising cotton costs. New
Look will hold the price of 20 percent of its “key” product
lines and increase prices of the remaining ranges, he said.  New Look was taken private by Permira, Apax and founder Tom
Singh in 2004 for 669 million pounds ($1.05 billion). Permira
and Apax each own 8 percent of New Look. Singh and his family
trust own 23 percent, management has 16 percent and the rest is
owned by other investors, according to company filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in Berlin through 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 