-- Nigeria Finance Minister Aganga Says Fitch Outlook Reduction Is `Punitive'
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-25T11:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/nigeria-finance-minister-aganga-says-fitch-outlook-reduction-is-punitive-.html
Nigeria, which is preparing to sell
its first global bond of $500 million, said Fitch Ratings’
decision to cut the country’s credit outlook was “unduly
punitive.”  The government disagrees with the decision “given the
numerous positive features of the country’s economy and ongoing
reforms,” Finance Minister  Olusegun Aganga  said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Fitch lowered the outlook on Nigeria’s BB- rating to
“negative” from “stable” on Oct. 22, concerned about
withdrawals from the excess crude account and a drop in foreign
currency reserves. This raises “vulnerability to any renewed
fall in oil prices and threatens macroeconomic stability,”
Fitch said. The action may add to investors’ concern as the
government pushes ahead with plans to sell an international bond
to raise funds to build power plants and roads.  “The drawdown of the excess crude account and fall in
international reserves are factors that have worried
investors,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at
Standard Chartered Plc in London, said in an e-mail.  Foreign currency reserves amounted to $34.7 billion on Oct.
15, compared with $42.4 billion at the start of the year,
according to data on the Central Bank of Nigeria’s  website .  Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil producer and the continent’s
most populous nation, is due in January to hold elections, which
have already been marred by violence following bombings in the
capital, Abuja, on Oct. 1 that killed 12 people. The last
elections in 2007 were condemned by local and international
monitors as being flawed because of fraud and intimidation.  “It is clear that political risk is elevated in the near
term and investors will exercise a greater degree of caution,”
Khan said.  Elections in the first half of next year have increased
short-term political risk and a flare-up in the Niger Delta, the
oil-producing region where much of the violence has taken place,
would be the worst outcome for the economy as a whole, Fitch
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  