-- NYC Finance Agency Leads Week's $13 Billion Bond Offerings: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-25T04:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/nyc-finance-agency-leads-week-s-13-billion-bond-offerings-muni-credit.html
The  New York City Transitional
Finance Authority , which funds capital projects in the most-
populous U.S. city, leads this week’s municipal issuance with a
$750 million offering, including $620 million in Build America
Bonds.  States and local governments are poised to sell about $13
billion in municipal debt in the next five days, the second-
highest  weekly total  since March 26, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. As much as $3.2 billion in taxable Build America
Bond sales are scheduled, the most since Sept. 24, Bloomberg
data show.  This week’s offerings will bring TFA’s total Build America
issuance this year to more than $1.8 billion, Bloomberg data
show. The increased supply of the federally subsidized debt
still hasn’t saturated the market, and investor interest in the
agency’s debt remains strong, said  Neil Klein , senior managing
director at New York-based Carret Asset Management.  “There’s a healthy demand for this issue,” said Klein,
who oversees $860 million of investment-grade fixed-income
assets. “The name is great.”  TFA debt carries top credit scores from Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings, and Aa1 from Moody’s Investors Service,
second-highest. The bonds, which are subordinate to the agency’s
senior debt, are backed by New York City personal-income and
sales-tax revenue, according to preliminary offering documents.  “Although senior bonds have a first claim on statutory
revenues, Fitch does not make a rating distinction between the
liens due to the high coverage levels,” Laura Porter and
 Douglas Offerman  wrote in an Oct. 21 report.  Individual Investors  The authority today will be taking orders from individual
investors, the so-called retail period, with sales to
institutional buyers, such as mutual funds and insurance
companies, tomorrow. TFA also plans to sell $100 million of
traditional taxable bonds via competitive bid as well as $30
million in tax-exempts tomorrow.  The extra yield above U.S. Treasuries investors demand to
hold the agency’s Build America debt has risen almost 10 percent
in the last two months, Bloomberg data show.  The authority last sold Build Americas in August, with the
bulk of the $614 million deal, due in August 2037, priced to
yield 5.51 percent, or 145 basis points above 30-year U.S.
Treasuries. The so-called spread reached 160 basis points on
Oct. 22, according to Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Build America Spread  In the same period, the spread between Treasuries and
average Build America yields has  fallen 11 percent  to 178 basis
points on Oct. 21 from 200 basis points on Aug. 2.  Retail and institutional demand for this week’s Build
Americas may get a boost from the agency’s credit rating as well
as overseas interest in the debt, according to Comptroller  John Liu ’s office.  “We expect very strong demand, including from
international buyers who we know are looking at it,” said  Carol Kostik , deputy comptroller of public finance.  Build America Bonds, the fastest-growing part of the $2.8
trillion U.S. municipal debt market, were first sold in April
2009 as part of the economic-stimulus package and include a 35
percent federal subsidy on interest-rate costs. Legislation
introduced by Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  would
extend the program, which expires Dec. 31, by one year with the
subsidy reduced to 32 percent. Previous extension attempts
stalled in Congress. About $149 billion have been issued to
date.  Foreign investors boosted their  holdings  of U.S. municipal
bonds by 15 percent in the second quarter, according to Federal
Reserve data released Sept. 17.  “We have made steady progress with international
investors, and we expect that to continue,” said  Alan Anders ,
executive director of the TFA. “We’re hopeful to have our
normal, successful sale.”  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  PHILADELPHIA, the sixth most-populous U.S. city, plans to
sell $619 million in airport-revenue bonds today, including $327
million subject to the alternative-minimum tax, to refinance
debt and fund terminal improvements. Underwriters led by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch will market the issue, which is rated A2
by Moody’s, sixth-highest, and A+ by S&P, one level higher.
(Updated Oct. 25)  DALLAS-FORT WORTH INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, the world’s
eighth-busiest by passenger traffic last year, plans to sell
$301 million in tax-exempt deal as soon as this week to finance
its improvement program. The revenue-backed bonds are rated A1
by Moody’s, fifth-highest. Underwriters led by Jefferies & Co.
will market the securities to investors. (Added Oct. 25)  SAN ANTONIO, the seventh most-populous U.S. city, plans to
sell $500 million in Build America Bonds to fund the capital
improvement plan of CPS Energy, the nation’s largest municipally
owned energy utility. The bonds will be backed by electric and
gas system revenue, and are rated Aa2 by Moody’s, and AA by S&P,
third-highest, and AA+ by Fitch, one level higher. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Bank of America will lead underwriters marketing
the debt. (Added Oct. 25)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 