-- O’Malley Says PBF Interested in More U.S. Refinery Acquisitions
-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2010-10-25T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/o-malley-says-pbf-interested-in-more-u-s-refinery-acquisitions.html
PBF Energy Co. LLC Chairman  Thomas O’Malley  said the company is interested in additional
acquisitions in the U.S. after agreeing to purchase two East
Coast refineries earlier this year.  “Here in the United States PBF is an interested
expander,” O’Malley, 69, said in a telephone interview Oct. 22.
“I see opportunities” in the refining sector, he said.
“Believe me, I am not finished in the refining space.”  PBF, a partnership backed by private-equity firms
 Blackstone Group LP  and First Reserve Corp., agreed to purchase
Valero Energy Corp.’s Paulsboro refinery in New Jersey for about
$360 million last month. It agreed in April to buy Valero’s
Delaware City, Delaware, plant for $220 million.  O’Malley, who is speaking today at the OPIS National Supply
Summit in Las Vegas, built Tosco Corp., which was sold to the
former Phillips Petroleum Co. for $8.37 billion in 2001. He was
chief executive officer of Premcor Inc. before it was bought by
Valero in a $10.8 billion deal that closed in September 2005.  After selling Premcor, O’Malley left for Europe where he
took the helm of the continent’s largest independent refiner,
Petroplus Holdings AG.  Petroplus plans to shut its Reichstett plant in France and
convert the site into a terminal after failing to find a buyer,
the company said in a statement Oct. 21.  The company said in September it has an agreement in
principle to sell its 32.6 percent share of PBF to Blackstone
and First Reserve for $91 million. Petroplus said it was exiting
in part because of PBF’s plans to “expand at a rapid rate” in
the U.S., which would require raising more capital in a
“difficult financial environment” or lowering its ownership
interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  