-- Obama Excitement Wanes as Young Voters Tune Out U.S. Election
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/obama-excitement-wanes-as-young-voters-tune-out-to-leave-democrats-vexed.html
Indiana University  professor  Gerald
Wright  opened his class on congressional elections by asking
students if they saw the previous night’s school-sponsored U.S.
House candidate debate a few blocks from campus.  Among almost 60 students, three hands went up.  “Most students don’t care about elections in general,”
20-year-old sophomore Melody Mostow said after the class last
week. “In most midterm elections, there’s not that central
person for us to rally around.”  The thrill is gone for many voters under age 30 who turned
out in 2008 to vote for President  Barack Obama  by a 2-1
nationwide  margin . That support represented the biggest schism
between young and older voters in a presidential election since
exit polling began in 1972, according to the  Pew Research Center 
in Washington.  This year, fewer than three in 10 voters under age 30 say
they will definitely cast ballots in the Nov. 2 congressional
elections, down from 36 percent 11 months ago, according to a
poll by  Harvard University’s Institute of Politics  released Oct.
21.  That’s disheartening for Democrats like Representative
 Baron Hill  in southeast Indiana. His race may hinge on support
from younger voters on a sprawling, hilly campus of old stone
halls who helped swell his 2008 victory margin to 58 percent. It
was his biggest win ever in a district that voted Republican in
the previous three presidential elections and includes the
42,000-student university in Bloomington.  An Exception  Mostow, from Pittsburgh, is volunteering for Democrats and
voted by absentee ballot. She said she’s an exception and that
most students aren’t sure how the elections will affect them.  “I’m trying to follow the election a little bit, but I’m
not really motivated,” said Chris Williams, 22, who voted for
Obama and Hill in 2008. “I don’t really like any of the
candidates.”  Williams said he hasn’t decided whether he’ll support Hill
or vote at all. Two years ago Obama created a sense he cared
about young people, said Williams, who graduated and now works
at the campus bookstore. “There’s not that kind of excitement
this time.”  Students “have really full lives” with classes, jobs and
other activities, said political science professor Wright. “To
try to carve out much more time for politics really takes
something special, and it happened in 2008 for a lot of them.”  Biggest Backers  Voters age 18 to 29 have been Democrats’ biggest backers
among any age group in the past three national elections. They
gave 54 percent support to Democratic presidential candidate
 John Kerry  in 2004 and 60 percent to congressional Democrats in
2006, when anger over the Iraq war and Republican President
 George W. Bush ’s policies gave Democrats control of Congress.  The share of voters under age 30 who say they are giving a
lot of thought to this year’s election dropped to 31 percent
from 39 percent in 2006, according to a September Pew poll.  Enthusiasm for the Democratic Party also is slipping. While
56 percent of young voters this year say they are Democrats or
leaning that way, that’s down from 62 percent in 2008, according
to polling by Pew. Republican affiliation rose 6 points to 36
percent.  On top of that, Obama’s job approval rating has dipped to
49 percent among young voters from 58 percent in November 2009,
according to the  Harvard  poll.  ‘Discouraged With Politics’  “The generation that in 2008 proudly made the difference
as caucus-goers in snowy Iowa for Senator Barack Obama tell us
less than three years later that they are so discouraged with
politics that they may sit this one out,” the Harvard poll
concluded.  No one expects young voters’ enthusiasm to come close to
the 2008 level. That “was astronomical and it had to come back
to earth,” said  Peter Levine , director of  CIRCLE , a research
institute on youth voting at  Tufts University  in Medford,
Massachusetts.  The race for Hill’s seat is one of three in Indiana
targeted by Republicans trying to recapture the House. The 57-
year-old former all-state high school basketball player and
member of the Indiana Basketball Hall of Fame is being
challenged by Republican  Todd Young , 38, a prosecutor and former
Marine.  Asked after his Oct. 18 Bloomington debate against Young
whether he was concerned about a lack of enthusiasm among
college students, Hill said he has young people making phone
calls every night.  ‘Overwhelmed’  “I’m overwhelmed by the support I’m getting,” said Hill,
who was first elected to Congress in 1998.  Among those supporters is Laura Carlson, 21, a senior who
spends 10 to 15 hours a week making phone calls and knocking on
doors to remind Democrats to vote. She said it would be a “huge
loss” if Obama’s party can’t keep control in Congress.  “This election is just as important as 2008,” she said as
she canvassed a student neighborhood. “My parents want me to
get a job, but I feel the need to be doing this.”  Getting younger voters to cast ballots on Election Day has
never been easy. Turnout among those under age 30 was 51 percent
for the presidential election in 2008. Sixty-seven percent of
those over 30 voted.  Participation drops off in midterm elections. Just 25
percent of young people cast ballots in 2006, compared with 54
percent of older people, according to figures from CIRCLE.  Focusing on Grades  “I’d rather be spending time focusing on my grades,” said
Jenna Fumo, 20, who voted for Obama and plans to sit out this
election.  In the closing weeks of the campaign, Obama has held
rallies at the University of Wisconsin and Ohio State University
and hosted a televised town-hall meeting on cable channels MTV,
BET and CMT.  Organizing for America , Obama’s political arm outside the
White House, has “campus captains” in 22 states to help
coordinate canvassing and voter registration. In the past five
months, volunteers have made about 2 million calls or visits to
young voters, said spokeswoman  Lynda Tran .  Meanwhile, young Republicans sense opportunity. The  College
Republican National Committee  has recruited more than 25,000
members in five competitive states, said Rob Lockwood, the
group’s spokesman. “We’re the ones who are enthused.”  Justin Kingsolver, 20, president of the College Republicans
at Indiana University, said that while most students “don’t
even know there’s an election,” a record 160 people attended
his group’s first meeting this school year.  College Republicans are looking to return to times when
young voters were in their camp. President  Ronald Reagan  won 59
percent of young voters in his 1984 bid for a second term.  “Reagan was the last Republican candidate who knew how to
capture younger voters,” Kingsolver said. “If we could have
another Reagan, oh my goodness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  