-- Obama Avoided Depression, Got `No Credit,' Cote Says
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2010-10-25T15:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/obama-avoided-depression-got-no-credit-honeywell-chief-david-cote-says.html
Honeywell International Inc.  Chief
Executive Officer  David Cote  said President  Barack Obama  avoided
a depression and has gotten little credit for doing so.  “I have never seen such panic consuming the markets,”
 Cote  said today in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Betty Liu . “It is like everyone forgets that stuff afterwards.”  Cote said he favored the $814 billion stimulus bill and
other remedies to spur growth amid the worst economic slump
since the Great Depression of the 1930s. The stimulus has been a
topic of debate in the congressional elections, with Republicans
calling it a failure because the economy remains weak.  “It’s bad now, but it would have been significantly worse
if we hadn’t done anything,” said Cote, 58. “The president
gets very little credit for avoiding a depression.”  Cote’s comments in support of the stimulus plan set him
apart from CEOs faulting Obama’s economic agenda, including his
peer at Procter & Gamble Co., the world’s largest consumer-
products maker. Complaints include Obama’s efforts to overhaul
rules for Wall Street, raise taxes on overseas income, tighten
environmental reviews and rework pending free-trade agreements.  “The business community is about as alienated from a
government as I have ever seen it,”  Mort Zuckerman , the 73-
year-old CEO of Boston Properties Inc., said in a Sept. 10
interview with Bloomberg Television.  Curb on Growth  Unemployment running at more than 9 percent, including 9.6
percent in September, continues to damp economic growth, even
with the National Bureau of Economic Research concluding last
month that the recession ended in June 2009. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 27 that the central bank
“will do all that it can” to keep the recovery going.  “You would have to say there is a lot of trepidation in
the business community,” Cote said. “It is an odd time.”  Honeywell, a maker of car turbochargers and aircraft parts,
also has criticized the administration. In an interview last
month with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio, Chief Financial Officer
 David Anderson  said a bill signed by Obama to raise taxes on
profits from the outside the U.S. is “absolutely counter to
what we should be pursuing as a country.”  Cote has been CEO since 2002 at Morris Township, New
Jersey-based Honeywell. The company said Oct. 22 that third-
quarter  sales  rose 9 percent as manufacturing rebounded.  The U.S. economy remains at risk from a rising budget
deficit that threatens to push annual interest costs on the debt
to $1 trillion a year in 2021, said Cote, a member of the
National  Commission  for Fiscal Responsibility and Reform.  “The seeds of the next recession have already been
planted,” he said.  Obama’s deficit commission will make recommendations in a
report due in December, after the Nov. 2 congressional
elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net ;
 Betty Liu  in New York at 
 Bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  