-- Office Depot Says Odland Resigned, Looks for New CEO
-- B y   I a n   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-25T20:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/office-depot-chief-odland-resigns-one-week-after-settlement-of-sec-probe.html
Office Depot Inc. , the retailer that
posted two years of losses, said Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Odland  has resigned, four days after disclosing a
settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The resignation, “by mutual agreement” with the board, is
effective Nov. 1, the retailer said today in a statement,
without providing further details on the reasons for his
departure. The  shares  jumped 3.5 percent after Office Depot also
said it probably had a  profit  last quarter.  Office Depot, the second-largest U.S. office-supply chain
after  Staples Inc. , will be run by  Neil Austrian , a board member
since 1998, until a permanent replacement is found. The change
in management, along with this month’s appointment of a new CEO
at rival OfficeMax Inc., marks a “critical moment,” said  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  “The industry is ripe for consolidation,” Strasser, who
rates Office Depot shares “neutral,” said in a note to
investors. “There will be fresh perspective to an industry that
is over-stored, and needs to cut capacity. This is the moment
for action.”  Office Depot , based in Boca Raton, Florida, rose 16 cent to
$4.79 at 4:00 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have dropped 26 percent this year.  SEC Settlement  The retailer said Oct. 21 that it  agreed  to pay $1 million
to settle claims by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
that it signaled to some analysts in 2007 that earnings may miss
estimates. Odland, 52, agreed to pay $50,000 as part of the
settlement, according to the SEC.  “Odland’s tenure at the company started on a promising
note, but ended frustratingly for investors,” said  Colin McGranahan , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in New York who
rates the stock “outperform.” “There was little love lost
between Odland and investors, hence the positive reaction.”  The CEO’s departure had nothing to do with the SEC fine,
 Brian Levine , a spokesman for Office Depot, said in an e-mail.  “We have made significant progress on many fronts,”
Levine said. “That said, we still have much to accomplish, and
the board feels that now is the right time to seek new
leadership and help usher in a period of growth.”  Third-Quarter Earnings  Office Depot released preliminary third-quarter earnings
results today, saying that sales probably fell 4 percent from a
year earlier.  Earnings  were about 18 cents a share in the three
months ended Sept. 25, including a 15-cent tax-related gain,
compared with a $1.51 loss a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted a loss of 1 cent on average.  Office Depot’s sales have slumped to $12.1 billion in 2009
from $15.5 billion in 2007, as businesses cut back on office
supplies during the recession and competition from discount
retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp.
increased.  Odland and then-Chief Financial Officer  Patricia McKay 
directed employees to call analysts late in the second quarter
of 2007 to signal that the slowing economy would hurt earnings,
the SEC said in a statement on Oct. 21.  Odland joined the company as chairman and chief executive
officer from AutoZone Inc. in 2005. He will remain as a
consultant through Dec. 31.  OfficeMax, the third-largest U.S. office-supply chain, said
on Oct. 13 that it hired  Ravichandra Saligram , a former
president at Aramark Corp., as CEO.  Saligram, 54, will replace  Sam Duncan  on Nov. 8,
Naperville, Illinois-based OfficeMax said in a statement at the
time. Duncan, who announced his retirement earlier this year,
will remain as an adviser through February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Thomson  in New York at 
 ithomson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 Rajello@bloomberg.net  