-- Hog Futures Slump on Increased Pork Supply, Waning Exports; Cattle Decline
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-25T19:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/hog-futures-slump-on-increased-pork-supply-waning-exports-cattle-decline.html
Hog futures fell the most in more
than a week amid signs of rising supplies and weaker pork
demand. Cattle futures dropped the most in three weeks.  At the end of September, U.S. warehouses held about 163
million pounds of ham, up 9.3 percent from a year earlier, the
Department of Agriculture said in a  report  last week. Pork
exports fell 0.8 percent in August from a year earlier, the USDA
said on Oct. 15. Hog prices have dropped 8.6 percent in October,
heading for a sixth straight monthly loss.  “Ham stocks were up significantly from a year ago, and
product trade continues to weaken,” said  Chad Henderson , a
market analyst at Prime Agricultural Consultants Inc. in
Brookfield, Wisconsin.  Hog futures for December settlement fell 2.2 cents, or 3.1
percent, to settle at 68.45 cents a pound at 1:06 p.m. on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the biggest decline for a most-
active contract since Oct. 14.  The average live weight of hogs presented for slaughter was
up 1.1 percent in September from a month earlier, according to
USDA data.  “The weights have really jumped up,” Henderson said.
“We’re getting new corn. There’s good feed. Those are all some
negative factors there.”  Doug Harper , an analyst at  Richard A. Brock  & Associates in
Milwaukee, said last week’s government cold-storage report,
which measures how much pork is moving either into or out of
warehouses, may be reflecting demand.  ‘Price Resistance’  “It showed larger-than-expected pork supplies,” he said.
“It indicates that pork might be finding some price resistance
at the retail level.”  Retail pork  surged to $3.30 a pound in September, the
highest level since at least 1970, according to USDA data.  Ham stocks, which normally peak on this report, went
“higher than normal,” Harper said.  Cattle declined after a government  report  showed supplies
are climbing faster than analysts forecast.  U.S. feedlots bought 2.462 million head of cattle last
month, up 3.1 percent from a year earlier, the USDA said n Oct.
22 after markets closed. Eleven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected a 2.5 percent increase, on average.  Cattle futures for December delivery fell 1.05 cents, or 1
percent, to settle at $1.0065 a pound in Chicago, the biggest
drop since Oct. 4.  Prices are lower “mostly from the cattle-on-feed report,”
Henderson said. “It just confirmed a little bit heavier
supplies.”  Feeder-cattle futures for January settlement dropped 1.1
cents, or 1 percent, to settle at $1.1175 a pound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  