-- Toll Brothers Obtains New $885 Million Credit Line in `Vote of Confidence'
-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 2010-10-25T18:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/toll-brothers-obtains-new-885-million-credit-line-in-vote-of-confidence-.html
Toll Brothers Inc. , the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder, said it obtained an $885 million revolving
line of credit in a “strong vote of confidence” by its banks
as the economy emerges from the worst recession since the 1930s.  The new four-year facility replaces a $1.89 billion
revolver that was set to expire in March 2011, the Horsham,
Pennsylvania-based company said today in a statement. The new
credit line can be increased to as much as $2 billion, Toll
Brothers said.  The financing comes two months after Toll Brothers
unexpectedly reported its first quarterly profit since 2007. The
interest rate on drawn portions will be 2.5 percentage points
more than the London interbank offered rate, according to a
person familiar with the financing. That compares with a spread
of about 0.5 percentage point for the previous facility,
according to  Frederick N. Cooper , a company spokesman.  “This is the first new unsecured credit facility completed
by a publicly traded home building company since the financial
crisis of 2008,”  Martin P. Connor , chief financial officer at
Toll Brothers, said in the statement. “We believe this
transaction is recognition by the banking community of the
prudent manner in which we have navigated these difficult
economic times, and, more importantly, is a strong vote of
confidence in our future.”  Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc arranged the credit facility, according to the statement.
Libor is the rate banks charge to lend to each other.  End of Streak  The new facility will have a 50 basis-point undrawn fee,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
transaction was private. The interest rate will be based on a
ratings grid, the person said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  On Aug. 25, the homebuilder recorded a $26.5 million third-
quarter gain from a tax benefit. That helped the company end a
streak of 11 straight quarterly losses as housing demand slumps.
Homebuilder orders have plunged since a federal tax credit of as
much as $8,000 for buyers expired on April 30.  Fewer U.S. new homes than forecast were sold in August,
signaling the housing market remains depressed even as mortgage
rates dropped.  Purchases  were unchanged at a 288,000 annual
pace, matching July as the second-lowest in data going back to
1963, the Commerce Department said Sept. 24. The median price
fell to the lowest level in more than six years.  Sales of new homes in September are forecast to have
increased 4.2 percent from the previous month to an annual rate
of 300,000, according to median estimate of 72 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Bravo  in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 