-- Fire Union in London Calls for Bonfire Night Strike Over Possible Job Cuts
-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 2010-10-26T10:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/london-fire-brigade-to-review-security-ahead-of-firefighters-next-strike.html
The U.K.  Fire Brigades Union  has
called for a strike in London on one of the busiest days of the
year for firefighters in protest over plans to change working
conditions, which it has said will cost members their jobs.  The union has called its members to strike from 10 a.m.,
Nov. 5, on Britain’s Bonfire Night, to 9 a.m., Nov. 7, for a
total of 47 hours, it said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
The firefighters already staged an eight-hour walk-out on Oct.
23 and plan to hold another eight-hour walkout on Nov. 1.  The London Fire Brigade said it was examining contingency
plans for the day and would have a “minimum” of 27 engines on
duty. The brigade has 169 fire engines.  “The FBU have placed firefighters in a terrible
position,” Brian Coleman, chairman of the London Fire and
Emergency Planning Authority, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “We had asked for a meeting with national negotiators on
Nov. 5 and the union have responded with a strike.”  Bonfire Night is an annual celebration in the U.K. held to
mark the failure of the Gunpowder Plot of Nov. 5, 1605, where
Guy Fawkes and other conspirators attempted to destroy the
Houses of Parliament in London. It is marked with the use of
fireworks and lighting of bonfires.  On Bonfire Night, firefighters receive and attend twice as
many calls than on an average day, the London Fire Brigade said
in an e-mailed statement. On Nov. 5 last year, the brigade was
called out to fight 224 fires, while firefighters were called
out to quell 66 fires the day before.  Contract Changes  The strike action follows a request by Ron Dobson, the
London Fire Brigade Commissioner, to the Department of Business,
Innovation and Skills and the FBU in August, asking for a formal
consultation to terminate firefighters’ existing contracts and
offer them new ones. The FBU has said this process is aimed at
cutting some of the 5,557 uniformed and 41 non-operational
firefighters.  “We do not want to take this action but we have no
choice,” said FBU general secretary Matt Wrack. “The long term
safety of Londoners depends on a well-trained, self-confident
firefighting force.”  The FBU said all of London’s firefighters supported the
strike on Oct. 23. Cover for the strike was successful, a
spokeswoman for the  London Fire Brigade  said yesterday. The
brigade, the largest fire and rescue service in the U.K., said
all 162 “contracted” emergency workers were deployed, with 27
fire engines responding to 49 incidents, including several
fires.  The proposals seek to reduce a 15-hour shift by three hours
and add those three hours to a nine-hour day shift, Coleman said
on Oct. 15.  ‘Bonfire Night’  “What sort of union orders its firefighters to go on
strike over Bonfire Night?” Coleman said in a statement. “The
emergency fire cover did what we expected it to do the first
day, and will do so again.”  On Oct. 23, emergency cover was provided by AssetCo Plc,
which signed a five-year 9 million-pound ($14.2 million)
contract with the brigade to provide “contingency level”
services, according to the brigade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Lawrence  in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
ckeatinge@bloomberg. 