-- Long-Term Peso Bonds Jump 40% on Surging Economic Growth: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-10-25T14:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/long-term-peso-bonds-jump-40-on-surging-economic-growth-argentina-credit.html
Argentine peso bonds maturing in
eight years or more are beating shorter-term notes for the first
time since 2006 as the government’s June debt restructuring and
a revival in economic growth boost confidence.  Government bonds linked to inflation that begin maturing in
2018 returned 40 percent in 2010, compared with a 26 percent
advance for debt that matures before 2016, according to indexes
from Buenos Aires-based research company Instituto Argentino de
Mercado de Capitales, or IAMC.  Average yields  on peso bonds sank 826 basis points since
February to 15 percent as President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  swapped $12.2 billion of defaulted notes and the
central bank forecast the economy will grow at the fastest pace
in 18 years. Record-low interest rates in the U.S. and Europe
are also fueling demand for Argentine debt. The country’s peso
bonds yield 359 basis points, or 3.59 percentage points, more
than local Brazilian  debt , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “When country risk falls, it benefits longer-maturity
bonds more than shorter bonds,” said  Javier Salvucci , a money
manager with Silver Cloud Advisors in Buenos Aires. “Investors
are trying to get ahead of falling yields by moving to longer
bonds.”  Quickening growth and a record 55-million metric ton
soybean harvest sparked a 92 percent jump in export tax revenue
in September and prompted analysts surveyed by Bloomberg to pare
forecasts for a drop in the peso to their most bullish outlook
in almost two years. Slower declines in the peso help preserve
dollar-based returns on local bonds.  ‘Main Reasons’  Economists are predicting the peso will weaken 6.2 percent
this year and end December at 4.05 to the dollar, according to
the median of 11 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. At the
beginning of the year, they had forecast the currency would
slide 10 percent to 4.2, according to the survey.  “One of the main reasons for the rally is expectations of
a more stable exchange rate,” Salvucci said.  Inflation rose to 11.1 percent in September from a year
earlier, according to government data.  “If you’re going to make a bet on a value play, you’re
going to go into the highest-yielding bonds out there and those
are the CPI-linked bonds,” said  Siobhan Morden , an analyst at
Royal Bank of Scotland in Stamford, Connecticut.  The government’s inflation rate compares with the 25
percent level estimated by  Alberto Ramos , a Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. economist in New York, and Ecolatina, a Buenos Aires-based
research company.  ‘Cheap’  Economists and politicians including Vice President  Julio Cobos  and former Economy Minister  Roberto Lavagna  began to
question official statistics in early 2007, when then-President
 Nestor Kirchner  made personnel changes at the national
statistics institute. Kirchner and Fernandez say government data
is accurate.  Argentine inflation-linked peso bonds “don’t seem cheap to
us,” said  Pablo Cisilino , who helps manage $14 billion in
emerging-market debt, including Argentine dollar bonds, at Stone
Harbor Investment in New York. “When they start reporting
believable inflation numbers, we’ll look at it.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 14 basis points to 594
at 10:42 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
It’s down from 846 on July 1.  The  cost  of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 8 basis points on
Oct. 22 to 738, according to data provider CMA. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Economic Expansion  The peso slid 0.1 percent today to 3.957 per U.S. dollar.  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy rose 0.16 cent to 12.48 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Argentina’s economy expanded at an annual rate of 8.5
percent in August, while its trade surplus widened to $1.07
billion during September after a 32 percent surge in exports,
the national statistics agency reported Oct. 22.  The central bank forecasts the economy will expand 9.5
percent this year, the most since 1992.  Standard & Poor’s last month raised the South American
nation’s debt rating one level to B, five steps below investment
grade, saying the country’s “strong” economic expansion is
helping it make debt payments. The increase matched a move made
by Fitch Ratings in July, one month after Argentina restructured
debt remaining from the country’s default in 2001.  “Normalizing relations with creditors and regaining access
to external capital markets is positive,” said RBS’ Morden.
“It reduces rollover and insolvency risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  