-- Companies in U.S. Plan to Raise Capital Spending, Survey Shows
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/more-companies-in-u-s-plan-to-boost-spending-on-equipment-survey-shows.html
More companies in the U.S. plan to
increase spending on new equipment over the next 12 months after
sales and profits improved, according to a quarterly survey of
economists.  The percentage of businesses projecting to boost capital
investments exceeded the share intending to cut spending by 33
points, up from 25 points in July, according to a survey by the
 National Association for Business Economics . Fifty-nine percent
of respondents said sales rose in the third quarter, the most
since January 2006 and up from 52 percent in the group’s
previous survey.  “The recovery from the Great Recession continues, with
business conditions improving,”  William Strauss , a senior
economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago who analyzed
the results, said in a statement.  In contrast to the capital spending plans, about half of
those surveyed said they see no change in employment over the
next six months. The number projecting to increase hiring was
unchanged at 39 percent, and fewer said they will cut jobs.  Profit margins climbed in the most recent quarter at 39
percent of companies responding, up from 25 percent in the last
survey. Those reporting increased spending on equipment jumped
to 37 percent, the highest since 2008, from 24 percent in July.  The report contained some unnerving news for Fed policy
makers who are concerned that inflation is too low. While the
proportion of firms planning to raise prices over the next three
months is about the same as in the July survey, 21 percent said
they will keep the increase to 5 percent or less, up from 14
percent in the prior poll.  Central bankers, who meet Nov. 3, are considering ways to
ease monetary policy and help reduce unemployment. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this month that there appears to be a “case
for further action.”  The NABE survey, taken from Sept. 21 to Oct. 6, included
responses from 74 members of the business economists group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  