-- Orkla Of Norway Plans to Sell Forest Assets to Statskog for $300 Million
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-10-25T07:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/orkla-sells-forest-assets-to-statskog-for-300-million.html
Orkla ASA, a Norwegian company whose
holdings range from frozen pizzas to renewable energy, agreed to
sell forest assets to  Statskog SF  for 1.72 billion kroner ($300
million) as it streamlines its businesses.  Borregaard Skoger AS, AS Boerresen and Borregaard Vafos AS
and a stake in Statskog-Borregaard Skogsdrift were sold to the
state-owned company, Oslo-based Orkla said today in a statement.
The sale covers 1.1 million decares (272,000 acres) of land and
needs approval from the Norwegian parliament. The process
started in February and the assets were put on the market after
the summer, Orkla’s  Roar Engeland  said by phone.  “We have historically owned these forests because of
Borregaard’s industries, in line with the way things were done a
few decades ago, to secure access to raw materials,” Orkla’s
head of financial investments said. “Now these markets have
changed, as has Borregaard, so it hasn’t been necessary to own
forests anymore.”  Orkla Chief Executive Officer  Bjoern Wiggen , who was
appointed last month, is seeking to focus the company on fewer
areas, including consumer goods and aluminum solutions while
reducing solar-energy holdings. The company on Oct. 1 sold its
investment-management unit Orkla Finans to Pareto AS for an
undisclosed sum. Engeland declined to comment on what Orkla
would seek to divest next.  No List  “There’s no list we’re running down,” he said. The forest
companies and Orkla Finans “are two completely different
transactions that each had their own logic.”  Orkla also owns Elkem, which makes solar-energy components
and alloys, and about 40 percent in Renewable Energy Corp. ASA,
whose stock has lost 43 percent this year amid competition from
China, cuts in state support for solar energy and rising
expansion costs.  Posco, the world’s third-biggest steelmaker, is not
considering buying Elkem, Reuters reported yesterday. The agency
in August said the South Korean company was considering
acquiring the metals and silicon producer.  Engeland declined to comment on whether Orkla had been in
discussions with Posco about Elkem.  Orkla rose 0.40 kroner, or 0.7 percent, to 56.50 kroner as
of 9:38 a.m. in Oslo, paring this year’s decline to 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  