-- Mortgage Lenders Say `Enough Is Enough' as Buybacks Curb Loans
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-25T18:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/mortgage-lenders-say-enough-is-enough-as-buybacks-curb-loans.html
Home lenders are making it tougher
to get loans as investors step up demands for refunds on
defective mortgages, damaging the housing market, executives
said today at an industry conference.  Already beset by billions of dollars in forced buybacks,
originators have imposed standards on new loans that are
stricter than those set by mortgage buyers and insurers,
according to  Todd Chamberlain , an executive vice president who
oversees mortgage lending at Birmingham,  Alabama-based Regions
Financial Corp.   “This industry has to stand up and say, ‘Enough is
enough,’ "  Ron J. McCord , chairman of Oklahoma City-based First
Mortgage Co., said during a panel discussion with lender
executives at the Mortgage Bankers Association’s annual
conference in Atlanta, drawing applause from the audience.
“We’re trying to be out here lending to help this recovery.”  Fannie Mae , Freddie Mac and bond insurers such as MBIA Inc.
are pressing lenders including  Bank of America Corp.  to honor
promises to buy back mortgages if they’re later found to be
based on inaccurate data. Known as representations and
warranties, the promises cover defects such as inflated
appraisals or inaccurate data about a borrower’s job or income.
Bank of America said last week it will resist paying claims.  Call for Unity  The industry needs to be “more united” in dealing with
the demands, said  William C. Emerson , Chief Executive Officer of
Detroit-based Quicken Loans Inc., ranked as the 10th-largest
lender in the first half of this year by  newsletter  Inside
Mortgage Finance. Bankers have attributed mortgage defaults to
the poor economy rather than defects in the loans.  “We all know we signed up for reps and warranties, but I
don’t know if we thought we signed up to be an insurance
company,” he said, speaking on the panel with Chamberlain and
McCord.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender, will “defend our
shareholders” by disputing unjustified claims, CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  said in an interview last week. The Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank said it faces about
$12.9 billion in pending claims.  Most of the disputed loans “don’t have the defects that
people allege,” Moynihan said in the Oct. 19 interview, and
Chief Financial Officer  Charles H. Noski  told analysts any
repurchases will be negotiated “on a loan-by-loan basis.” For
claimants such as Assured Guaranty Ltd., Bank of America’s one-
at-a-time process is “like Chinese water torture,” said  Dominic Frederico , the bond insurer’s chief executive officer, during an
August conference call.  More Requests  Dan Arrigoni , CEO of Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp’s
mortgage unit, the sixth-largest U.S. home lender, said his firm
is seeing its most repurchase requests ever, though the amount
is “still manageable.” Those are often coming from government-
supported  Fannie Mae  or Freddie Mac, typically referred to as
“agencies.”  “Our good friends at the agencies have hired a boat-load
of people to go through everything with a fine-tooth comb, and
they’ve done a good job,” he said. At the same time, “we’ve
been successful in having them rethink a few.”  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the largest mortgage-finance
companies, may be owed as much as $42 billion just on loans they
bought directly from lenders, according to Fitch Ratings.
Investors in private mortgage bonds may collect as much as
$179.2 billion,  Christopher Gamaitoni , vice president of
research at Compass Point Research & Trading LLC in Washington,
said in an August report.  Joint Action  A group of investors in mortgage securities including
BlackRock Inc. and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York signaled
in a letter last week to Bank of America and Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., a bond trustee, that bondholders may press for
more refunds.  Sales  of U.S. existing homes rose in September by 10
percent, the most on record, a sign that cheaper borrowing costs
may be helping to stabilize the housing industry. The U.S. is
glutted with a 10.7-month supply of unsold previously owned
homes, the National Association of Realtors said today.  First Mortgage’s McCord said his private company, which
makes about $1 billion of mortgages a year, is fending off as
much as 70 percent of repurchase requests by proving it lived up
to its contracts. Still, the demands themselves add to lenders’
expenses and stress, he said.  “My wife has said on numerous occasions I look like I’m
going to have a heart attack over this,” McCord said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  