-- Tough Guys Have an Invitation to Take a Ride: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-10-25T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/tough-guys-have-an-invitation-to-take-a-ride-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Professional athletes have said some
stupid things. Like former NBA player  Latrell Sprewell , who
riffed on struggling to feed his family while being paid more
than $14 million.  Or  Marcus Camby , whose $8.5 million salary wasn’t enough to
keep him from suggesting that National Basketball Association
players ought to be given a clothing stipend if the league
instituted a dress code. And then there’s Tampa Bay Rays All-
Star  Evan Longoria , who said it was difficult for him to see his
clean-cut, educated teammate,  Carlos Pena , as coming from the
Dominican Republic.  Doozies all.  Alas, we have a new contender in the pantheon of uttered
foolishness. It comes courtesy of the National Football League,
where there seems to be a debate on whether helmet-to-helmet, or
helmet-to-vital-organ, hits should be banned from what is an
inherently violent game.  “If I get the chance to knock somebody out, I’m going to
knock them out and take what they give me,” said  Channing Crowder  of the Miami Dolphins, a 6-foot-2, 250-pound linebacker
in his sixth NFL season. “They give me a helmet, I’m going to
use it.”  Yikes. The part about using the helmet should scare the
daylights out of the mother, wife or child of any player whose
team appears on the Miami schedule this season.  Protect, Not Punish  Crowder shouldn’t be allowed anywhere near a football field
until it’s clear to Commissioner  Roger Goodell  that he
understands a helmet is a safety device. It’s designed to
protect, not punish.  The NFL, at long last, is getting serious about the kind of
hits that ruin not only careers but lives. The league last week
sent a video to its 32 teams, announcing stiffer fines and
suspensions for players who use their helmet as a weapon.  “We all accept that football is a physical and tough game,
but players must play under control,” Ray Anderson, the NFL’s
executive vice president of football operations, says in the
video. “These hits can have severe consequences for the player
delivering the hit as well as for the player taking the blow.”  Common sense tells you that the players more than anyone
would applaud anything that makes the violent game they play
safer. A number of them, though, have leaned more toward
nonsense than common sense.  Flag Football  Take Chicago Bears linebacker  Brian Urlacher , who
sarcastically suggested that players should wear flags and that
the league be renamed the National  Flag Football  League.  It seems NFL players are, even today, choosing macho over
mountains of evidence that repeated concussions have
debilitating effects on the body and brain.  One player,  James Harrison  of the Pittsburgh Steelers, who
was fined $75,000 for a helmet hit on Cleveland Browns wide
receiver  Mohamed Massaquoi , said he would retire, arguing the
restrictions wouldn’t allow him to play as he’s always played.
It didn’t take long for Harrison to rejoin his teammates at
practice.  Massaquoi’s teammate,  Josh Cribbs , who sustained a
concussion on a helmet-to-helmet hit from Harrison, via Twitter
said he harbored no ill-will toward the Steelers linebacker.
“That’s what he’s supposed to do -- knock people out.”  And here I was thinking he was supposed to tackle. Though
I’ve been in plenty of testosterone-filled NFL locker rooms, I
was stunned at the player reaction to the safety initiative.
 Eleanor Perfetto , a senior director at Pfizer Inc., wasn’t.  Dementia Link  “These guys can’t look like they have fears,” said
Perfetto, whose 67-year-old husband, Ralph Wenzel, a former
lineman for the Steelers and Chargers, suffers from dementia and
resides in an assisted-living facility. “If you’re smart
enough, you should have fear.”  Maybe that’s a message that DeMaurice Smith, the executive
director of the NFL’s players association, ought to be
delivering to those consumed with lockout chatter. The NFL’s
dirty-hits problem isn’t about the enforcement of rules. It’s
about the cultivation of respect -- player for player. The
solution isn’t in fines, but fundamentals. Pee-wee football
players are taught that if you can’t see what you’re hitting,
then don’t hit it. Every weekend, the NFL offers too many
examples of how not to tackle.  Perfetto has a surefire way to instill fear into NFL
players, including Messrs. Crowder and Urlacher.  She has extended an open invitation to any player’s mother,
wife or girlfriend to spend a day with her.  “I’ll take them with me to the facility where my husband
lives and I’ll show them what his life is like and what things
are going to be like for them in 20 years,” she said. “I
guarantee you that when she goes home they’ll have a very
different discussion.”  Oh, to be a fly on the wall in the Crowder home.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  