-- Outsourcing No Longer `Dirty Word' as Tech Spending Rises
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-25T23:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/outsourcing-no-longer-dirty-word-for-police-as-technology-spending-rises.html
The Cleveland Police Authority in
Northern England is paying  Groupe Steria SCA  to help manage the
control room of the 2,200-strong force, allowing Chief Constable
Sean Price to “concentrate on policing.”  The 211 million-euro ($295 million), 10-year contract to
take calls, assist in preparing criminal case files and manage
payroll, recruitment and expenses became effective Oct. 1. Price
and other first-time customers seeking to simplify back-office
operations or upgrade rickety computer systems are helping
information technology services companies such as Steria,  Cap
Gemini SA  and  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp.  grow faster
than the economies they serve.  “Outsourcing used to be a bit of a dirty word,” Price
said in an interview. “I don’t think that’s the case anymore.”  France’s Cap Gemini and Teaneck, New Jersey-based Cognizant
have raised their outlooks this year, while India’s  Infosys
Technologies Ltd.  and  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.  have
signaled rising demand from corporate clients. The companies are
gaining as corporations revive spending postponed by the global
economic crisis while also looking to cap costs.  “IT is doing better than the economy,”  Francois Enaud ,
chief executive officer of Velizy, France-based  Steria , said in
an interview. “The crisis forced companies in many industries
to reconsider the way they do business and their cost model.”  About 53 percent of public- and private-sector
organizations in Europe surveyed by  Gartner Inc.  plan to
outsource more this year, while 40 percent plan to increase
spending on IT services, the research firm said Sept. 7. Gartner
also found that 14.7 percent of organizations with IT budgets of
less than 1 million euros expressed interest in outsourcing,
compared with 6.1 percent last year.  In the Cloud  The recovery in spending has been slower at large
corporations, postponing the rebound at companies such as
 International Business Machines Corp. , the world’s largest
computer-services provider. The Armonk, New York-based company
this month posted its third straight quarterly decline in new
contracts. Its services signings fell 7 percent to $11 billion
in the third quarter.  “Very large corporate IT projects of the type that IBM
would get involved in aren’t recovering to the same extent as
smaller pieces of work, which are more significant to smaller
companies,” said Gianluca Tramacere, an analyst with Gartner in
Milan.  These large  contracts  have traditionally been multi-year
commitments with a fixed base of servers and personnel. While
those are harder to come by, smaller companies are increasingly
able to outsource some operations.  ‘Pay as You Need’  That’s in part thanks to the spread of cloud computing
services, which shrink the footprint necessary for upgrades to
IT infrastructure by storing data and applications online.  Providers including Steria and Cap Gemini are promoting
“pay as you need” cloud-based services, challenging the
industry’s use of long-term contracts.  “The cloud should enable entry into these services
faster,” for smaller companies, said Patrik Karrberg, a
researcher in the  London School of Economics ’ Information
Systems and Innovation Group. “The promise of the cloud is more
flexibility.”  That’s helping cloud services grow faster than more
traditional IT. Worldwide cloud services revenue is expected to
reach $68.3 billion this year, up almost 17 percent from 2009,
while overall global IT spending may rise about 4 percent,
according to Gartner.  Emerging Markets  Tata Consultancy  this month reported a quarter-on-quarter
increase in revenue of 12 percent, the biggest jump in more than
four years.  Infosys  raised its full-year revenue forecast to
about $6 billion, compared with a July estimate of as much as
$5.81 billion. Steria reported an 8 percent gain in third-
quarter revenue to 402 million euros.  At Cap Gemini, Europe’s largest IT services provider,
second-quarter  revenue  climbed 1.9 percent to 493 million euros
in France and 6.6 percent in Asia, Latin America, and Europe
outside of France, the U.K., and the Benelux countries. Sales in
the U.K. and Ireland slid almost 9 percent.  Cap Gemini spent 233 million euros for 45 percent of
Brazilian provider CPM Braxis in September. India’s HCL
Technologies Ltd. and  Wipro Ltd.  have suggested they may do
deals in Europe to expand their services on the continent.  In France, companies are “much more open to considering
the outsourcing of non-core business” than before the economic
crisis, Steria’s Enaud said.  Pent-Up Demand  Still, demand driving many corporate clients to spend more
on their IT systems will eventually slow, some executives said.  “There was a surge in pent-up demand that we saw in the
first and second quarter,” Cognizant CEO  Francisco D’Souza 
said.  First-half revenue at Cognizant surged 35 percent to about
$2 billion as deferred spending returned, the company said Aug.
3. Demand later in the year is unlikely to be “quite as strong,
as we return to a more normal situation,” D’Souza said.  IT providers also face a battle to safeguard revenue from
cuts in government spending in U.S. and Europe. In the U.K., the
government said last week departments will cut their budgets by
an average 19 percent over four years, with police budgets
falling by 14 percent.  Longer term, the cost-cutting efforts may help computer
services companies, said the LSE’s Karrberg.  “The problem for many governments it that they don’t have
enough competent in-house people,” he said. “There will be a
response among the providers to create more efficient services,
and it’s a big opportunity at the moment.”  At the Cleveland Police Authority, meanwhile, Price is
fielding queries from other police departments for the service
contract he has with Steria.  “There’s going to be a huge amount of interest in
partnerships like this,” he said. “So far we’ve had 29 police
forces in England and Wales contact us to find out about what
we’re doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 