-- Outside Spending Erodes House Democrats' Campaign Fundraising Advantage
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-10-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/outside-spending-erodes-house-democrats-campaign-fundraising-advantage.html
Democratic Representative  Dina Titus 
of Nevada has spent twice as much money as her Republican
opponent in the Nov. 2 election and is still being outgunned.  Outside groups supporting former state Senator  Joe Heck ,
the Republican challenger, have poured more money into the
suburban Las Vegas district than any other House race,  Federal
Election Commission  records show.  The organizations, such as  Karl Rove ’s American Crossroads,
have helped Republican candidates fill in any financial gap
between them and endangered Democratic incumbents. Between Sept.
1 and Oct. 20, Republican-leaning outside groups that aren’t
limited in the amount of money they are allowed to spend on
candidates paid out $118 million, while those backing Democrats
spent $45 million.  “Outside groups are having a huge effect since money is
the fuel that drives all of the media assault,” said  Steffen Schmidt , a political science professor at Iowa State University
in Ames.  Vice President  Joe Biden  expressed concern that the outside
money, most of it from groups that don’t disclose their donors,
could cost Democrats control of the House.  “I’ve never seen this before,” Biden said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  Titus, 60, won her first term in 2008 with 47 percent of
the vote. She is considered one of the most endangered House
Democratic incumbents by three Washington-based publications
that rate congressional races, the  Cook Political Report ,
 Rothenberg Political Report  and  Congressional Quarterly .  Titus spent $2.3 million between Nov. 5, 2008, and Oct. 13,
2010. Heck had expenses of $935,871 between Oct. 1, 2009, and
Oct. 13, 2010. Republican outside groups outspent Democratic
organizations in the district, $3.5 million to $1.8 million,
between Sept. 1 and Oct. 20.  “Who are these people? They’re anti-health care, anti-Wall
Street reform, anti-energy,” Titus said. “We’re not just
fighting against Joe Heck.”  Heck’s spokeswoman, Mari Nakashima, didn’t respond to
several requests for comment.  In addition, the  House Republican fundraising arm  spent
$1.1 million between Sept. 1 and Oct. 20 on the race; the
 Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee  has made
expenditures of $935,893 on Titus’ behalf during the same
period.  With more money than her opponent, Titus went on the
airwaves in an attempt to define Heck before he could raise
enough money to answer back. The political advertisement’s
kicker: “Senator Heck doesn’t get it. He’s not on our side.”  “We worked very hard to raise the money,” Titus said.
“We wanted to go up on television as early as we could.”  The outside groups have answered for Heck.  “The groups’ influence to this point has been to fill in
the gaps and carry underfunded Republican challengers,” said
 Evan Tracey , president of Kantar Media’s Campaign Media Analysis
Group of Arlington, Virginia, which tracks political ads.  In Virginia, Republican challenger  Morgan Griffith  has
benefitted from $835,259 in spending from outside groups plus
$613,668 from the National Republican Congressional Committee
between Sept. 1 and Oct. 20. That’s helped him compete with
Democratic incumbent  Rick Boucher , whose expenditures are four
times Griffith’s. Boucher spent $2.5 million between Nov. 5,
2008, and Oct. 13, 2010. Griffith reported expenditures of
$568,801 between Jan. 1 and Oct. 13. Democratic groups paid out
$190,010 to help Boucher between Sept. 1 and Oct. 20.  In Florida’s 8th District, which includes Walt  Disney 
World, Republican groups spent $1.2 million between Sept. 1 and
Oct. 20 on ads attacking Democratic Representative  Alan Grayson ,
some also mentioning fellow Democratic freshman  Suzanne Kosmas 
in an adjacent district.  The National Republican Congressional Committee spent
another $593,230 between Sept. 1 and Oct. 20 to try to defeat
Grayson. Democratic groups reported $105,000 in expenditures
during the same period in Grayson’s favor. The DCCC has stayed
out of the race.  Grayson has been a top target of Republicans, in part
because of his penchant for inflammatory rhetoric. During debate
last year on the health-care overhaul that Democrats eventually
passed through Congress, he said in a House floor speech, “If
you get sick, America, the Republican health-care plan is this:
Die quickly.”  The beneficiary of Republican spending is former state
Senator  Daniel Webster , the Republican challenging Grayson.
Grayson spent $5 million between Nov. 5, 2008, and Oct. 13,
2010; Webster spent $976,986 between April 1 and Oct. 13.  “Webster is going to close the gap a little bit,
especially with outside money,” said  Aubrey Jewett , a professor
of political science at the  University of Central Florida  in
Orlando.  Like Titus, Grayson, 52, used his campaign funds to
immediately attack Webster after the Florida’s Republican
primary in August. One ad dubbed Webster, an opponent of
abortion rights, as “Taliban Dan” for trying to “impose his
radical fundamentalism on us.”  “It’s not that the money magically appears, it’s a
reflection of support of what we’re doing,” Grayson said. “In
the world that we live in, you need money to communicate.”  A spokesman for Webster, Brian Graham, said Grayson’s
attack ads indicate how vulnerable the Democratic incumbent is.  “We might not have as many TV ads or fancy mailers, but
we’ve got a lot of people out there working hard for us and
getting our message out,” Graham said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 