-- ‘Paranormal Activity 2’ Is Top Film With $40.7 Million
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2010-10-26T02:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/paramount-s-paranormal-activity-2-tops-box-office-41-5-million-sales.html
“Paranormal Activity 2,” the
sequel to last year’s low-budget hit, led the weekend box office
with $40.7 million in sales at U.S. and Canadian theaters,
giving Paramount Pictures its second straight No. 1 debut.  The thriller, released ahead of next week’s Halloween
weekend, overtook “Jackass 3-D,” which fell to second with
$21.3 million for  Viacom Inc. ’s Paramount, researcher
Hollywood.com Box-Office said in an e-mailed statement.  The original “Paranormal Activity” was made for about
$11,000 and took in $183 million worldwide, according to the
 Internet Movie Database . The sequel’s production budget was
$2.75 million, the researcher estimated. It was projected to
take in $30 million its first weekend, according to analyst
 Gitesh Pandya  of Box Office Guru.  “Paramount handled it perfectly,” Pandya said, suggesting
midnight showings on Oct. 20 and 21 generated buzz. “They
aggressively promoted the midnight shows. That’s really how this
franchise began and what people got hooked on.”  In “Paranormal Activity 2,” a family hears strange noises
in their home and, fearing intruders, sets up a series of video
cameras, only to discover more sinister activity. The movie was
directed by Tod Williams, whose credits include “The Door in
the Floor.” Oren Peli, who wrote and directed the original,
shares writing credit with Michael R. Perry, Christopher Landon
and Tom Pabst.  Dangerous Stunts  “Jackass 3-D” is the third film based on the MTV reality
series, and the first shot using three-dimensional technology.
The movie, featuring  Johnny Knoxville  and directed by Jeff
Tremaine, follows the cast as they perform outrageous and
potentially dangerous stunts.  After two weeks, “Jackass 3-D” has made $86.9 million,
surpassing the amounts the previous movies in the series made in
their entire U.S. theater runs. “Jackass: The Movie,” released
in 2002, took in $64.3 million domestically and “Jackass:
Number Two” made $72.8 million after its 2006 release.  The action comedy “Red” fell to third from second in its
second week, bringing in $15 million. Ticket sales total $43.5
million for the film, distributed by Summit Entertainment.  “Red,” based on a graphic novel, stars  Bruce Willis  as a
recently retired spy who must find out who is trying to kill
him. The cast includes  Helen Mirren ,  Morgan Freeman  and  John Malkovich .  Psychic Powers  Clint Eastwood’s  “Hereafter,” in its first weekend of
wide release, came in fourth with $12 million in ticket sales
for Warner Bros. The movie, starring  Matt Damon  as a blue-collar
worker with psychic powers, addresses questions of the
afterlife.  “The Social Network,” Sony Corp.’s drama about the
founding of Facebook Inc., dropped to fifth from third with $7.3
million. The film, starring Jesse Eisenberg as Facebook co-
founder  Mark Zuckerberg , has taken in $72.9 million since its
Oct. 1 release.  “Secretariat,” about the 1973 Triple Crown-winning
thoroughbred racehorse, fell to sixth place from fourth with $7
million for Walt Disney Co.  Weekend sales for the top 12 films rose 13 percent to
$119.5 million from $105.9 million a year earlier, Hollywood.com
said. Year-to-date receipts total $8.65 billion, up 3.4 percent
from $8.37 billion. Attendance has fallen 2.2 percent this year.  The amounts are based on actual ticket sales for Oct. 22 to
Oct. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Palazzo  in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
 Zeke Faux  in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 