-- Pearson Raises Forecast on Digital, Emerging Markets
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-10-25T10:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/pearson-increases-full-year-profit-forecast-on-digital-emerging-markets.html
Pearson Plc , the publisher of the
Financial Times newspaper, raised its full-year profit forecast
for the second time this year, citing growth in digital and
emerging markets.  Earnings per share adjusted for some items will increase by
about 10 percent this year from 65.4 pence per share last year,
Pearson said in a statement. In July, the company had raised its
2010 earnings growth forecast to 7 percent. In the first nine
months, sales rose 7 percent and operating profit advanced 15
percent, the London-based company said.  Pearson, which gets about 65 percent of its sales from
education, said it raised its outlook even though demand in some
markets “remained subdued” in the third quarter and the
“macroeconomic outlook” was still uncertain. Nine-month sales
at Penguin Books rose 5 percent while education revenue
increased 7 percent and the FT Group gained 11 percent.  “Our businesses continue to generate significant growth in
digital and in developing markets, and to benefit from further
efficiency gains,” Pearson said today. “We are also building
our position in developing economies and services businesses,
reinvesting some of the Interactive Data sale proceeds.”  Pearson dropped 0.9 percent to 967.5 pence in London
trading as of 11:40 a.m.  Chief Executive  Marjorie Scardino  said in July the company
will continue to focus on fast-growing emerging markets for its
educational business as well as the FT Group.  In May, Pearson sold its 61 percent stake in Interactive
Data for $3.4 billion and said it would use the proceeds to
expand through bolt-on acquisitions, with a focus on technology
and education.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  