-- Pensioners From Chile to Colombia Buy Overseas Real Bonds: Brazil Credit
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-10-25T14:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/pensioners-from-chile-to-colombia-buy-overseas-real-bonds-brazil-credit.html
When bankers at Deutsche Bank AG and
Barclays Plc were piecing together orders last week for Brazil’s
first real-linked international bond sale in three years, they
discovered a new source of demand: Latin American pension funds.  “We had never seen these investors in global local
currency deals,” said  Dennis Eisele , a director in New York at
Deutsche Bank, the biggest underwriter this year of overseas
bond sales by Latin American issuers. He said investors from the
region including Colombia, Peru and Chile made up a
“substantial” amount of the almost 3.5 billion reais ($2.06
billion) of orders. “That’s great demand,” he said.  Brazil sold 1.1 billion reais of bonds due in 2028 to yield
8.85 percent, at least 200 basis points, or 2 percentage points,
above local-currency debt yields from the five other investment-
grade countries in Latin America.  Real-denominated bonds sold overseas, typically bought by
investors in the U.S., Europe and Japan looking for alternatives
to  near-zero benchmark rates  in their countries, are beginning
to lure Latin American pension funds seeking to invest assets
abroad. Pension fund assets have risen more than 80 percent in
Chile, Peru and Colombia since 2005, buoyed in part by surging
commodity exports and quickening economic growth.  Chilean pension fund investments have risen to $138 billion
from $72 billion in 2005 while those held by funds in Colombia
jumped to $49.7 billion from $20.1 billion, according to
regulators in those countries. Peruvian pension fund assets
climbed to $28.8 billion from $11.6 billion in 2005.  Credit Growth  Assets managed by the 100 largest U.S. public pension
funds, by comparison, have declined 3.7 percent since 2005 to
$2.35 trillion, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  “It’s a combination of the Brazilian credit and the growth
of the pension fund system in Latin America,”  Fabianna Del Canto , who works on the emerging-markets bond syndicate at
Barclays in London, said in a telephone interview.  Brazil’s  economic expansion , on pace to be the fastest in
more than two decades, has attracted funds forced to look
outside their borders for longer-dated assets, according to
Barclays, which ranks 10th in Latin American bond underwriting
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In Chile, where the  2.75 percent benchmark  lending rate is
800 basis points below Brazil’s  10.75 percent target rate ,
foreign investment accounts for 46 percent of pension fund
assets, up from 29 percent in 2005. In Peru, where the key
lending rate is 3 percent, foreign assets have risen to 26
percent of pension fund holdings from 9.5 percent in September
2005, according to data compiled by regulators.  ‘Attractive’ Yields  “Brazil is a very good sovereign bond and the spread it
has over U.S. Treasuries right now is attractive for the levels
of risk,” said  Gonzalo Camargo , who oversees $6.8 billion in
Lima at AFP Horizonte, Peru’s third-largest pension fund. “The
yield and carry the bonds pay is very attractive and we’re
diversifying our portfolio.”  Camargo declined to say whether he participated in the
Brazilian debt offering.  Porvenir, Colombia’s biggest pension fund, said in an e-
mail response to questions that it’s considering buying
emerging-market local-currency bonds. Porvenir declined to
comment on whether it participated in Brazil’s bond sale.
 Alejandro Perez-Reyes , head of investments at Prima AFP, Peru’s
largest pension fund, didn’t return a telephone call seeking
comment. Chile’s pension funds aren’t allowed to comment on
their holdings.  ‘Testament’  The pension fund demand is “a testament to Brazil’s
improved macro fundamentals and the yield dynamics offered by
Brazilian asset prices at this point,” said  Aryam Vazquez , an
emerging-markets economist at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York.  Brazil’s economy, Latin America’s largest, will expand 7.5
percent this year, compared with 2.6 percent for the U.S., 1.7
percent in the 16-nation euro zone, and an average of 7.1
percent for developing nations, according to International
Monetary Fund forecasts.  While Brazil earned investment-grade ratings from Moody’s
Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings in the
past two years, the country’s ranking is still too low for
Mexican pension funds to be allowed to invest in its bonds.  Mexican Funds  Mexican funds can only buy international bonds rated at
least A-, or four levels above junk, according to government
regulator Consar. Brazilian debt has the lowest investment-grade
ranking, or BBB- at S&P and Fitch and Baa3 at Moody’s.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of Treasuries fell 1 basis point
to 182 at 10:07 a.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes.  The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2012 rose 1 basis point to 11.37 percent.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 3 basis points
last week to 99 basis points, according to data compiled by CMA
DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Real Declines  The real strengthened 0.2 percent to 1.7021 per dollar
today. It has lost 1.7 percent since the government raised a tax
on foreigners’ local fixed-income purchases for the second time
this month to stem the rally and shore up exports.  Brazil issued the real-linked international bonds three
days after the Oct. 18 tax increase to 6 percent. Treasury
Secretary  Arno Augustin  said in an Oct. 21 interview that the
government plans to sell more bonds denominated in reais
overseas this year as part of its efforts to curb gains in the
currency. Buyers of the international real-linked securities,
which settle in U.S. dollars and are subject to New York law,
don’t pay the tax.  The real has advanced 108 percent since President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva took office in 2003, buoyed in part by the
world’s second-highest inflation-adjusted interest rates, after
Croatia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In February 2007, Brazil first issued the real-linked bonds
due in 2028 with a coupon of 10.25 percent. The yield declined
to 8.6 percent on Oct. 14, the lowest since June 2007, as
record-low yields in the U.S. and Europe fueled demand for
emerging-market debt.  Real-denominated bonds have returned 21 percent annually in
dollar-based terms in the past four years, compared with 10
percent on Chilean peso debt, 13 percent on local Peru notes and
19 percent on Colombian securities, according to JPMorgan.  “Local pension funds are getting inflows, positive
returns, they’re looking for diversification,” said  Alberto Ramos , senior economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  