-- Petronas Chemicals Targets $4.2 Billion in Record Malaysia IPO
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-10-26T08:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/petronas-chemicals-said-to-price-shares-to-raise-as-much-as-4-2-billion.html
Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd., the
petrochemicals unit of Malaysia’s state oil company, aims to
raise between $3.7 billion and $4.2 billion in the Southeast
Asian nation’s biggest initial public offering, two people
familiar with the matter said.  Banks advising on the sale set an indicative price range of
4.50 ringgit to 5.20 ringgit per share for institutions late
yesterday, they said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Two
Malaysian pension funds will come in as key investors, according
to a term-sheet e-mailed to fund managers.  The indicative price works out at an historical price-
earnings ratio of about 16 times, based on the upper end of the
range. That’s less than the 18.1 times average for stocks in the
benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index , though comparable to
some key international industry peers including Saudi Basic
Industries Corp. and PTT Chemical Pcl, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s very hard for any investor to ignore this stock,”
 Geoffrey Ng , who manages $1 billion in Kuala Lumpur as chief
executive officer at HLG Asset Management Sdn., said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “It will increase Malaysia’s
overall market capitalization and its index weightings. We will
buy it.”  Second Share-Sale  Employees Provident Fund and Kumpulan Wang Persaraan will
be “cornerstone” investors in the IPO buying a combined 445
million shares, according to the term-sheet, without providing a
breakdown. A total 2.48 billion shares, or a 31 percent stake,
are being offered in the IPO, with individuals paying either
5.05 ringgit per share or 97 percent of the final institutional
price, it said.  A Petronas spokesman declined to comment in an e-mail to
Bloomberg today.  The IPO is the second this year by a unit of  Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. , following Prime Minister  Najib Razak ’s call in
March to attract international investors to the country’s stock
market by listing large companies.  Malaysia Marine & Heavy
Engineering Bhd. , a rig-builder held by Petronas’s MISC Bhd.,
raised more than 2 billion ringgit ($645 million) this month.  The share sale by Petronas Chemicals is the biggest in
Southeast Asia so far this year, surpassing the $2.7 billion
raised by Global Logistic Properties Ltd. in Singapore this
month. It’s also bigger than the $3.3 billion raised by  Maxis
Bhd. , Malaysia’s biggest mobile-phone operator, in its offering
last year.  Increased Appetite  The Petronas group already has four units traded on the
Kuala Lumpur stock exchange. They are MISC,  Petronas Dagangan
Bhd. ,  Petronas Gas Bhd.  and  KLCC Property Holdings Bhd.  It will
decide next year whether to sell shares in more divisions, Chief
Executive Officer  Shamsul Azhar Abbas  said on Oct. 4.  The listings come amid rising investor appetite for
Malaysian equities and a rebounding economy after last year’s
recession. The benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index  reached
its highest level in more than two years on Oct. 13. Malaysia
Marine received bids of more than 25 times the numbers allocated
for institutions in its IPO.  A total of 22 petrochemicals-related companies were
combined to form Petronas Chemicals, according to the draft
prospectus. CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., Deutsche Bank AG and
 Morgan Stanley  are advising on the sale. The company plans to
use its share of the proceeds for expansion, according to a
draft prospectus released on Sept. 7.  Asian IPOs  Profit at the unit fell 25 percent to 2.59 billion ringgit
in the year to March 31 from 3.45 billion a year earlier, while
sales dropped 1.3 percent to 12.2 billion ringgit, the draft
prospectus said.  Saudi Basic Industries  shares are trading at a price-
earnings ratio of 14 times, while  PTT Chemical  is trading at
20.5 times, based on Bloomberg data.  Petronas Chemicals will offer shares after IPOs from
emerging economies in the Asia-Pacific region raised $78.4
billion this year, more than triple the amount in the same
period in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Beijing-based  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  sold $22.1 billion
of shares in Shanghai and Hong Kong last quarter in the world’s
biggest IPO on record.  More than 500 companies in the region this year have
announced plans to raise a combined $69 billion in IPOs, the
data show. China is the world’s fastest-growing major economy,
while the expansions in Malaysia and India are outstripping the
U.S. by almost three times, Bloomberg data show.  India raised 152 billion rupees ($3.4 billion) selling
shares in  Coal India Ltd.  at the top of the price range, Coal
Minister  Sriprakash Jaiswal  said yesterday. Indian companies
have announced 121 initial offerings in 2010, four times the
number of IPOs a year earlier, according to Bloomberg data.  In Manila,  Cebu Air Inc. , the Philippines’ second-biggest
carrier, climbed in its trading debut today after the airline
completed the nation’s biggest initial public offering in five
years.  AIA Group Ltd. climbed 9.2 percent higher than its initial
public offering price in unofficial over-the-counter trading
yesterday after raising $17.8 billion in its Hong Kong IPO,
according to three people with knowledge of the transactions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 