-- Fed's Deflation Terror to Spur Easing, Inflation, El-Erian Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-26T06:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/pimco-s-el-erian-says-fed-treasury-purchases-may-disappoint.html
Federal Reserve Treasury purchases
will likely spur global inflation while failing to lower U.S.
 unemployment , according to  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive
officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.  Quantitative easing, the strategy of buying bonds to cut
borrowing costs, won’t be enough to deliver high economic
growth, he said yesterday at a reception in New York sponsored
by the Financial Women’s Association. The record amount of U.S.
debt is another problem for the economy, said El-Erian, who is
also co-chief investment officer at Pimco, which runs the
world’s biggest bond fund.  “One thing that the Fed cannot do is stand still, it is
terrified of deflation,” El-Erian said. “QE on its own means
we’ll have the same issues in six to nine months time with the
rest of the world being inflated.”  U.S. yields show investors increased bets on inflation to
the highest level since May. Kansas City Fed Bank President
 Thomas Hoenig  said quantitative easing is a “dangerous gamble”
that risks higher costs in the economy and another financial
crisis.  John Brynjolfsson , chief investment officer at Armored
Wolf LLC hedge fund, called Fed purchases a “bazooka.”  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, widened to 2.18 percentage points, matching
the most since May 19.  QE Estimates  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  next week is likely to preside
over a decision to buy more assets to increase the rate of
inflation and reduce the cost of borrowing in real terms,
comments from policy makers over the past week indicate. The
goal is to unlock consumer spending and jump-start an economy
that’s growing too slowly to push unemployment lower.  Estimates for the ultimate size of the asset-purchase
program range from $1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
Global Research to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., with
economists at both firms agreeing the Fed will likely start by
announcing $500 billion after the Nov. 2-3 meeting. The danger
is that once the Fed kindles price increases, inflation will be
difficult to control.  Inflation ‘Genie’  “By reducing real interest rates and trying to break the
psychology of ‘Why spend today when I can buy goods cheaper
tomorrow,’ they are hoping to drive growth that would be more
commensurate with a pickup in employment,” said  Dan Greenhaus ,
chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.
“The risk is a late 1970s type of scenario where the inflation
genie gets out of the bottle.”  The Treasury sold $10 billion of five-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities at a negative yield for the first
time at a U.S. debt auction yesterday as investors bet the Fed
will be successful in sparking inflation. The securities drew a
yield of negative 0.55 percent.  “If I were to design the right policy response and
implement it, it would be a package that would include
structural reforms making us more competitive and the economy
more flexible, more safety nets,” said El-Erian, who is based
in Newport Beach, California.  Fed policy makers, who have already cut  interest rates 
almost to zero and bought $1.7 trillion of securities, are
discussing more purchases of Treasuries to flood markets with
cheap money.  “From my perspective, it is a very dangerous gamble,”
Hoenig said in a speech in Lawrence, Kansas. “We risk the next
crisis four or five years from now. Central bankers need to
think of the long term.” Hoenig has dissented from every Fed
policy decision this year.  Commodity Prices  Rising costs for metals, food and oil show the Fed is
avoiding deflation, Brynjolfsson, who is based in Aliso Viejo,
California, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
Deflation is a general drop in prices.  “Their second goal is to achieve their target of 2 percent
inflation,” he said. “The bazooka they have of quantitative
easing should convince market participants that if that’s what
they want, that’s what they’re going to get.”  Fresh Treasury purchases will drive commodity prices even
higher as much of the money added to the U.S. economy spreads to
other nations, El-Erian said.  The UBS Bloomberg  Constant Maturity Commodity Index  was
about 1 percent away from a two-year high.  Pimco said separately quantitative easing from the
developed world may boost investment in faster-growing emerging
nations of Asia, including China, potentially fueling inflation.  China is heading for a more moderate, sustainable pace of
economic growth, Chia-Liang Lian, a Singapore-based fund manager
at Pimco, said in a discussion on the company’s  website .  Pimco’s $252 billion  Total Return Fund  handed investors a
gain of about 12 percent in the past year, beating roughly
three-quarters of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer Allianz SE,
managed $1.1 trillion of assets as of June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net 
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net 
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 