-- Portuguese Opposition May Boost Bond Market With Budget Talks: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-10-26T09:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/portuguese-opposition-may-boost-bond-market-with-budget-talks-euro-credit.html
Portugal’s biggest opposition party
is poised to let the government pass its deepest budget cuts
since at least the 1970s, giving a possible boost to the
country’s bond market.  “There may be a short relief rally,” said  Harvinder Sian ,
a London-based senior bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc.  Portugal’s borrowing costs climbed to a euro-era record on
Sept. 28 amid threats by the Social Democrats to oppose
Socialist Prime Minister  Jose Socrates ’s plan to raise sales
taxes to help trim the euro-region’s fourth-biggest deficit.
Since then, prices rebounded, giving fixed-income investors
returns of almost 5 percent.  “The market has been reacting quite positively on the
assumption that the budget will go through,” said Sian, adding
that the gains won’t last beyond the fourth quarter. “The
market needs to see growth for that.”  The extra yield investors demand for holding 10-year
Portuguese debt rather than German bunds, the European benchmark,
fell to 318 basis points today from last month’s record 441. The
spread is still about six times higher than a year ago and twice
the level for Spain and Italy. Only Greek and Irish yields are
at a bigger premium to bunds of the so-called euro peripherals.  Portugal plans tomorrow to sell as much as 1.25 billion
euros ($1.75 billion) of bonds due October 2014 and June 2018.
Borrowing costs dropped last week at an auction of 760 million
euros of 12-month bills. The securities due in October 2011 were
issued at an average yield of 2.886 percent on Oct. 20, compared
with 3.333 percent at the previous auction.  Parliamentary Vote  Social Democratic leader  Pedro Passos Coelho  said Oct. 20
that the biggest opposition party may abstain in the
parliamentary vote, allowing the 2011 budget to pass as long as
the government considers its proposals.  Passos Coelho has called for “greater ambition” to cut
state spending, reduce the proposed tax burden and prevent
additional cost increases for infrastructure projects and
public-private partnerships. The Social Democrats won’t impose
“all-or-nothing” conditions on the government, he said.  Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  is
negotiating the budget proposal with the Social Democrats, who
are represented by former Finance Minister Eduardo Catroga.
Parliament will start discussing the 2011 budget proposal on Nov.
2 and an initial vote is scheduled for the next day.  Support or Abstain  Socrates, who lacks a majority in parliament, needs the
Social Democrats to either support the plan or abstain for the
budget to be passed. European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said Oct. 18 that he was
“confident” the budget will get the required support from
Portuguese lawmakers.  Socrates has proposed to lower the wage bill by 5 percent
for public workers earning more than 1,500 euros a month, freeze
hiring and raise the so-called value-added tax rate by 2
percentage points to 23 percent to trim a budget gap that
reached 9.3 percent of gross domestic product last year.  The planned spending cuts for next year are set to be the
biggest since at least 1978, according to Eurostat, the EU’s
statistics office. Portugal was under the dictatorship of
 Antonio de Oliveira Salazar  and his successor Marcelo Caetano
from the 1930s until 1974.  Moody’s Investors Service said Oct. 18 that the government
was responding “adequately” to market pressures to lower the
deficit. Portugal is rated A1 by Moody’s and A- by Standard &
Poor’s.  Swaps Market  Credit default swaps on Portuguese debt declined to 332
basis points today from a record high of 472.6 on Sept. 29,
according to prices from data provider CMA. Greece and Ireland
are considered more risky than Portugal in the credit-default
swaps market. The cost of insuring Greek debt for five years was
668.5 basis points and it was 427 for Irish securities.  “Portuguese problems are more long term,”  David Owen ,
chief European economist at Jefferies International Ltd., said
in an Oct. 15 interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown”
program. “It has lost competitiveness inside EMU and it needs
to address those issues.”  Owen’s comments were echoed by Moody’s, which said in its
Oct. 18 report that “low growth will aggravate the weakness of
government revenues unless recent structural reforms bear
fruit.”  The government is counting on exports such as paper and
wood products to help the economy as it scales back spending and
investment. The budget includes a forecast for 0.2 percent
growth in 2011 and 1.3 percent this year.  S&P Report  S&P said Oct. 4 that Portugal probably won’t default on its
debt even as the economy fails to grow in the next two years.
 Jorg Decressin , head of the International Monetary Fund’s world
economic studies division, said Oct. 6 that the Portuguese
economy may contract 1.4 percent next year if the new deficit-
cutting measures are taken into account.  The Bank of Portugal forecasts that GDP will expand 1.2
percent this year, compared with gains of about 1.6 percent in
the 16-member euro region, according to projections last month
from the European Central Bank.  Economic growth  in Portugal
averaged less than 1 percent a year during the past decade,
compared with 1.3 percent for the euro region.  The Finance Ministry forecasts Portugal’s public debt as a
percentage of GDP will increase to 86.6 percent in 2011 from
about 82.1 percent this year. Teixeira dos Santos, the finance
minister, said Oct. 16 he expects the ratio to “stabilize” in
2012 and to start declining in 2013.  The government posted the highest budget gap last year in
the euro region after Ireland, Greece and Spain. It aims to
lower the  shortfall  to 7.3 percent this year, to 4.6 percent in
2011 and to meet the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 