-- Posco Project; Tata Motors, Maruti Suzuki, ICICI Earnings: India WeekAhead
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-10-25T03:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/posco-project-tata-motors-maruti-suzuki-icici-earnings-india-weekahead.html
An Indian government panel will
today consider a report that recommended scrapping environmental
clearances given to  Posco , the world’s third-largest steelmaker,
to build a $12-billion steel plant.  Three of the four members of an investigating team
suggested that approvals should be canceled because of “flaws
in the studies, and shortcomings in the clearances granted” to
the project in the eastern state of Orissa, Environment Minister
 Jairam Ramesh  said Oct. 18. Environment ministry officials will
meet in New Delhi to decide on the permits after the findings.  Posco’s project, billed as the single-biggest investment by
a foreign company in India, has been delayed since 2005 because
of opposition from farmers unwilling to give up their land. In
August, the ministry rejected a proposal by  Vedanta Resources
Plc , owned by billionaire  Anil Agarwal , to mine bauxite at
Niyamgiri hills in the same state, hampering a planned $8-
billion expansion.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex , had
a weekly gain, snapping two weeks of losses, led by  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd.  on optimism corporate earnings are
rebounding. The index climbed 0.2 percent last week to 20,165.86.  The rupee had its biggest weekly decline in two months on
speculation importers were buying dollars to meet month-end oil
payments and to take advantage of a slump in gold prices. The
rupee fell 1.1 percent last week to 44.595 per dollar in Mumbai.  ICICI, Tata Motors  The yield on 10-year  bonds  due May 2020 rose seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, last week to 8.14 percent,
according to the central bank’s trading system. The price
dropped 47 paise per 100 rupee face amount to 97.77.  ICICI Bank Ltd. , the nation’s second-largest lender,  Tata
Motors Ltd. , the owner of Jaguar Land Rover,  NTPC Ltd. , the
biggest power producer,  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , the nation’s
biggest energy explorer,  Hero Honda Motors Ltd. , the biggest
motorcycle maker,  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , the biggest
passenger carmaker, and  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. , the largest
sport-utility-vehicle maker, are among companies announcing
earnings this week.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India, the stock
market regulator, will hold a meeting today to consider new
takeover rules and allowing retail investors to buy more stocks
in initial public sales, the Press Trust of India reported
yesterday.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 