-- Qatar Mulls Christie’s Bid as Emir Plans Cultural Hub
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-10-26T17:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/qatar-may-bid-for-christie-s-as-emir-buys-art-plans-mid-east-cultural-hub.html
A possible Qatari bid for Christie’s
International Plc would help its emir make the country into a
Middle Eastern hub of the global art market, dealers said.  Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani  has already purchased
artworks at Christie’s and other auction houses, the dealers
said. Oil-rich Qatar has also bought the Harrods Ltd. store and
real estate in central London. The emir said he may be
interested in acquiring the London-based auction house, the
Financial Times reported, after months of speculation about a
possible Qatari bid.  “Qatar is interested in Christie’s for three reasons,”
 Philip Hoffman , chief executive of the London-based  Fine Art
Fund , said in an interview. “It wants long-term value in the
art market, it’s looking to diversify its economy and it’s after
advice.”  Christie’s is a private company owned by the French
billionaire  Francois Pinault . The auction house was bought by
his holding company, Groupe Artemis SA, for $1.2 billion in May
1998. It sold 1.71 billion pounds ($2.73 billion) of art in the
first half, a 46 percent increase on 2009. Offerings of
paintings, watches and jewelry in Dubai -- where the company’s
Middle Eastern operations are based -- raised $23.7 million.  Artemis Statement  “Following recent press articles, Artemis indicates that
no sale process has been initiated regarding Christie’s, the
world’s leading art business, which is one of its strategic
assets,” Artemis said in an e-mailed statement today. “Artemis
reaffirms its intention to pursue the long-term development of
Christie’s and its support of the company’s plan to build upon
its global position.”  The emir of Qatar’s office declined to comment yesterday.  Controlling Christie’s would enable Qatar, the world’s
biggest producer of liquefied natural gas, to enhance its status
as a cultural destination. The emir told the Financial Times
that the auction house “has links with the stuff we are
collecting for our museum.” Formal negotiations have yet to
take place, the newspaper report said.  The royal family of Qatar has been an active buyer of
selected high-value works of Western modern and contemporary art
during the last five years, said Hoffman, a former Christie’s
director whose managed funds include those focusing on Middle
Eastern artists.  The Emir of Qatar and his wife,  Sheikha Mozah bint Nasser Al-Missned , paid 9.7 million pounds for  Damien Hirst ’s 2002 pill
cabinet “Lullaby Spring” at  Sotheby’s  London in June 2007.  Rothko Buyer  They were also the buyers of  Mark Rothko ’s $72.8m-painting
“White Center (Yellow, Pink and Lavender on Rose)” at
Sotheby’s New York in May 2007, the Art Newspaper said in May
2008. The price was an auction record for a postwar work of art.  “Christie’s is a trophy asset,” John Martin, a London-
based dealer and co-founder of the  Art Dubai  fair, said in an
interview. “Qatar buying the auction house could result in more
international sales taking place in the Middle East. There would
be stronger links with Asia. Some sellers might see it as an
opportunity and would prefer to sell in the Gulf than in New
York or London.”  To date, it has been  Sotheby’s , rather than Christie’s that
has held auctions in Qatar. The New York-based company raised
$18 million at a series of sales in Doha in March 2009. Two
Hirst butterfly paintings estimated to fetch as much as $1.2
million each failed to find buyers. A second event, comprising
Islamic calligraphic painting, will take place on Dec. 16.  The Qatar Investment Authority, the country’s Doha-based
sovereign wealth fund, owns stakes in financial institutions
including Credit Suisse Group AG and Barclays Plc. The fund paid
1.5 billion pounds for Harrods in May and invested $2.8 billion
in Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s initial public offering in
June.  The emir has started a state visit to the U.K. and meets
 Queen Elizabeth II  today.  ( Scott Reyburn  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 