-- Treasury 30-Year Bonds Rise for Second Day Before Housing-Market Reports
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-25T11:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/treasury-30-year-bonds-rise-for-second-day-before-housing-market-reports.html
Treasuries rose for a second day
amid forecasts that reports this week will show U.S. home sales
were near record lows last month and economic growth remained
below average.  Two-year yields were within three basis points of the
lowest ever as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the Federal Reserve
may buy $2 trillion of assets to stimulate the economy. The U.S.
is scheduled to sell $10 billion of five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities today.  “This week’s focus is going to be on U.S. housing and
third-quarter GDP, which should reinforce the expectation that
the Fed has more easing to do” when it meets next month, said
 Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital
Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh.  Thirty-year yields declined four basis points to 3.9
percent at 6:44 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market
Data. The 3.875 percent security due in August 2040 climbed
20/32, or $6.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 18/32. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Two-year notes yielded 0.36 percent, compared with a record
low of 0.327 percent set on Oct. 12. Ten-year yields were two
basis points lower at 2.54 percent.  Existing  home sales rose to a 4.3 million annual rate last
month, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists before the
National Association of Realtors report today. The July and
August readings were the lowest since records began in 1999, and
September’s would be the third-lowest. Other reports this week
will show  new-home  purchases were close to the record low and
home price gains slowed, separate surveys suggest.  Fed Purchases  The Fed may begin its purchases with $500 billion over six
months, according to a report from Goldman Sachs economists led
by  Jan Hatzius  in New York. The company, one of the 18 primary
dealers authorized to trade directly with the Fed, said policy
makers will announce the plan at their next meeting Nov. 2-3.  Five-year TIPS yielded negative 0.52 percent today,
compared with positive 0.55 percent at the previous auction
April 26. Investors  bid  for 3.15 times the amount at that sale,
versus an average of 2.38 for the past 10 auctions.  Indirect  bidders , the category that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 23.1 percent of the notes, versus the
10-sale average of 32.6 percent.  Negative Yields  TIPS pay interest on a principal amount that moves with
consumer prices. As yields on conventional shorter-maturity debt
plunged, investors have been willing to buy TIPS with negative
yields, betting the return from the inflation adjustment will
exceed the interest the fixed-rate notes pay.  The negative TIPS rate is a sign some investors are betting
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will succeed in sparking inflation.  Expectations for rising consumer prices have increased
faster in the U.S. than any other bond market this month as
central bankers made the case for monetary easing through
additional asset purchases.  Treasury 30-year yields rose as much as half a percentage
point since September to 2.61 percentage points more than
similar-maturity inflation-indexed debt, the widest gap since
May and an indication of anticipated gains in consumer prices.  “I actually see the prospects of inflation returning to
about 2 percent over the course of the next year, gradually
rising,” Fed Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser 
said in Philadelphia on Oct. 22.  ‘Open Mouth’  Rising sales at companies from  Boeing Co. , the world’s
largest aerospace company, to chipmaker  Intel Corp.  and railroad
 CSX Corp.  show businesses are growing even before the Fed acts.  “It’s like a Harry Potter movie,” said  Mitchell Stapley ,
chief fixed-income officer at Fifth Third Asset Management,
referring to films based on the best-selling novels about the
adolescent wizard by J.K. Rowling. “They create money out of
nothing. Over the short-term there might not be an impact, but
certainly we are feeling that at some point they will get
traction. There will be success further down the road.”  So many central bank officials have given their opinion on
additional purchases that the policy-setting Federal Open Market
Committee has been nicknamed the “open mouth committee,”  David Kotok , chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors Inc.,
wrote in a report.  Charles Evans ,  Dennis Lockhart  and  William Dudley, 
presidents of the Fed banks in Chicago, Atlanta and New York,
said policy makers will start a second round of unconventional
stimulus, with Evans and Lockhart saying asset purchases must be
big enough to aid growth.  Fed officials need to be mindful of the effect their
actions are having on the  dollar , said  Richard Fisher , president
of the Fed bank of Dallas. Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  said pumping excessive liquidity into the banking system
may harm the economy.  “One thing is certain,” wrote Kotok, who oversees $1.5
billion at Vineland, New Jersey-based Cumberland. “There is no
expectation that the short-term  interest rate  will do anything
but remain near zero.”  The Fed cut its target for overnight lending between banks
to a range of zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  