-- Treasury Draws Negative Yield for First Time During TIPS Sale
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-10-25T21:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/treasury-draws-negative-yield-for-first-time-during-10-billion-tips-sale.html
The Treasury sold $10 billion of
five-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities at a negative
yield for the first time at a U.S. debt auction as investors bet
the Federal Reserve will be successful in sparking inflation.  The securities drew a yield of negative 0.55 percent, the
same as the average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 7 of
the Fed’s 18 primary dealers. The sale was a reopening of an $11
billion offering in April. Conventional  Treasury  notes erased
gains amid speculation on the amount of debt the Fed may buy to
spur the economy in a tactic called quantitative easing.  “It signals people’s expectation of the Fed being able to
create some inflation with the QE program,” said  Alex Li , an
interest-rate strategist in New York at Deutsche Bank AG, which
as a primary dealer is required to bid at Treasury auctions.
“With nominal rates so low, in order have high TIPS breakevens
you’ve got to have negative real yields on the five-year.”  Holders of TIPS receive an adjustment to the principal
value of their securities equal to the change in the consumer
price index, in addition to a fixed rate of interest that’s
smaller than the interest paid to a holder of conventional debt.
The difference between is known as the breakeven rate.  The fixed payment on five-year TIPS, known as the real
yield, has been pushed below zero because the rise in the CPI is
greater than the yield on regular five-year U.S. notes, which
has fallen with other  Treasury yields  as investors sought the
safety of U.S. government debt. A negative yield suggests
investors are betting Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will be
successful in preventing deflation and the risk of the economy
slipping back into recession.  ‘Good for the Economy’  The U.S. can only sell TIPS at a negative yield, according
to McKayla Barden, a spokeswoman at the Bureau of the Public
Debt. It’s not government policy to auction conventional debt at
that level, she said.  The negative yield is “a reflection of where the overall
rate environment is, combined with the expectation for the Fed
to stoke inflation and get prices rising again, which will
ultimately be good for the economy,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut. “It does demonstrate faith in the Fed and the
Fed’s ability to spur inflation, which is their desire.”  Inflation in 2010 will be 1.6 percent, according to the
median estimate of 59 forecasters in a Bloomberg News survey.  Thirty-year bond  yields declined two basis points to 3.91
percent at 4:57 p.m. in New York, after earlier dropping as much
as seven basis points to 3.86 percent, according to BGCantor
Market Data. Ten-year note  yields  rose one basis point to 2.56
percent, after earlier falling to 2.49 percent.  ‘Run Up and Down’  “There is a lot of thought going into trying to figure out
what the Fed is going to do,” said  Martin Mitchell , head
government bond trader at the Baltimore unit of Stifel Nicolaus
& Co., a St. Louis-based brokerage firm. “The differing views
minute to minute are causing Treasuries to run up and down, with
most people preferring to sit on their hands until the news is
handed down.”  Bernanke said at conference Oct. 15 the economy may need
more stimulus because inflation is too low and unemployment too
high at 9.6 percent. Core prices, which exclude food and fuel,
were little changed in September, capping a 0.8 percent increase
in the past 12 months, the smallest year-over-year gain since
1961. The Fed next meets Nov. 2-3.  New York Fed Bank President  William Dudley  repeated his
view today that the central bank will probably need to stage a
second round of unconventional stimulus to combat too-low
inflation and too-high unemployment. Dudley, vice chairman of
the Federal Open Market Committee, spoke in Ithaca, New York.  Sustained Price Declines  While central banks are typically more concerned about
faster inflation, the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression has made sustained price declines a bigger concern.
Fed policy makers, who already cut  interest rates  almost to zero
and bought $1.7 trillion of securities, are discussing more
purchases of Treasuries to flood markets with cheap money to
prevent stagnating prices from undermining the recovery.  “With more quantitative easing the likelihood of a
deflation scare over the short term has decreased significantly,
as the Fed is committed to upping inflation expectations,” said
 Keith Blackwell , an interest-rate strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in New York, a primary dealer. “TIPS look much more
attractive.”  At today’s auction, the  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 2.84, versus 3.15 at the April offering and an
average of 2.38 at the past 10. Indirect bidders, a class of
investors that includes foreign central banks, purchased 39.4
percent of the notes today. At the April sale, they bought 23.1
percent, the lowest in the history of the securities.  Note Auctions  The last five-year TIPS auction, on April 26, drew a yield
of 0.55 percent, which was then the lowest on record.  The U.S. will auction $35 billion in  two-year notes 
tomorrow, $35 billion of  five-year securities  the next day and
$29 billion in  seven-year debt  on Oct. 28.  The dollar dropped to a 15-year low versus the yen after a
pledge by the Group of 20 nations Oct. 23 to avoid “competitive
devaluation” failed to dispel speculation the Fed will debase
the greenback by announcing more bond purchases in a strategy
called quantitative easing.  The Fed may begin its bond purchases with $500 billion over
six months, according to a report from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
economists led by  Jan Hatzius  in New York. The company, a
primary dealer, said policy makers will announce the plan after
their November meeting. Ultimately the central bank may buy $2
trillion of assets, the note said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  