-- AIG Cost Estimate May Be Too Generous, Report Says
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-10-25T19:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/treasury-s-aig-cost-estimate-may-be-too-generous-report-says.html
The U.S. Treasury Department
estimate of losses from the bailout of  American International
Group Inc . uses questionable methods and may be too optimistic,
the Troubled Asset Relief Program’s inspector general said.  The department’s projection that it will lose $5 billion on
its TARP investment in AIG “represents a dramatic shift from
the $45 billion loss that Treasury had projected in its  AIG
investment  just six months earlier,”  Neil Barofsky , special
inspector general for TARP,  said in a report today . “While
AIG’s fortune may have indeed improved during the course of
those six months, there is a serious question over how much of
this decrease comes from a change in Treasury’s methodology for
calculating the loss as opposed to AIG’s improved prospects.”  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, turned over a
majority  stake  to the U.S. in 2008 as part of a rescue that grew
to $182.3 billion. The exit plan converts the government’s
preferred stock into 1.66 billion common shares for sale on the
open market and taps a Treasury facility for as much as $22
billion to retire Federal Reserve bailout vehicles.  The method Treasury used to arrive at the $5 billion
figure, published this month in a  report , differs from that used
in a loss estimate of $45.2 billion from March, Barofsky said.
While the smaller loss figure is based “solely on the recent
market closing price of AIG’s common stock,” the March estimate
“accounts for a broad range of factors that might affect the
value of Treasury’s holdings.”  Transparency  “We don’t believe there’s been any lack of transparency,
nor have we changed our methodologies,” Treasury Chief
Restructuring Officer  Jim Millstein  said in a telephone
interview.  “The financial statements value Treasury’s investments in
AIG based on the fact that we own an illiquid, preferred stock
that doesn’t trade publicly,” Millstein said. The report with
the smaller loss estimate “valued the AIG position giving
effect to the recently announced recapitalization transaction as
if we owned  common stock . In valuing that common stock, we
employed the same methodologies to value the common stock we own
in other publicly traded companies.”  Barofsky said that Treasury’s $5 billion loss estimate
can’t be used in official audited financial statements for TARP
to be published next month.  The watchdog said that Treasury “fails to meet basic
transparency standards by failing to disclose that the new lower
estimate followed a change in the methodology.” Treasury
disclosed its valuation method, Millstein said.  For Treasury to break even on its $49.1 billion investment
in AIG stock, the shares must be sold for almost $30. The
company traded below that level for more than two months this
year, reaching a low of $22.15 on Feb. 8.  AIG slipped 17 cents to $41.39 at 3:33 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading today. The insurer has advanced
about 38 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  