-- Refinancing Surge Lifts Banks Amid Foreclosure Scrutiny
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-25T16:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/refinancing-surge-gives-lift-to-banks-amid-foreclosure-scrutiny.html
A rush by U.S. homeowners to
refinance at near record-low  interest rates  marks a rare bright
spot for the mortgage industry, under attack for choking the
economy with shoddy loans and botched foreclosures.  Wells Fargo & Co., the biggest U.S. mortgage lender,
received $194 billion of loan applications in the third quarter,
the second-most in its history, Chief Financial Officer  Howard Atkins  said last week. About 80 percent were to refinance. Bank
of America Corp. CFO  Charles Noski  said lending margins are up
and demand should remain robust through yearend.  As the Mortgage Bankers Association opens its annual
conference today in Atlanta, lenders that survived the real
estate crash are finding the pickup in refinancings overshadowed
by a national foreclosure investigation and fresh investor
efforts to force loan buybacks. They are also concerned that new
consumer-friendly regulations will be burdensome.  “After 22 years of fielding our survey of attitudes and
behavior, I have never seen lenders respond with such
uncertainty,” Jeff Lebowitz, founder of  Mortech LLC , said in an
e-mail after the Bend, Oregon-based research firm this month
released its yearly survey of industry executives.  The report found that two-thirds of firms with annual
lending volume of more than $5 billion expect that the issue
affecting them the most in the next year will be adapting to
rules created in response to the global financial crisis, which
was triggered by record defaults on housing debt.  Charlie Brown  Mortgage lenders feel like comic-strip character Charlie
Brown,  John Courson , president of the Mortgage Bankers
Association, said today at the group’s conference. “We’ve got a
lot of ‘Lucys’ in our life these days, people who, just as we
think we’re moving down the field, pull the football out from
under us.”  The  Dodd-Frank bill  passed this year seeks to rein in
predatory lending by requiring banks to make a “reasonable and
good-faith” determination that borrowers are able to repay some
kinds of loans. It also instructed regulators to define which
types of mortgages banks can make and package into bonds without
retaining a slice. In addition, the bill created the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, which will have the authority to
regulate “unfair, deceptive or abusive” mortgage transactions
and other credit products.  Absorbing Change  Changes related to mortgage disclosure and fee requirements
in an update of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act are
among the most challenging for lenders, said  Wil Armstrong ,
chairman of Cherry Creek Mortgage Co. in Greenwood Village,
Colorado, which made $3.4 billion of home loans last year.  “The industry can’t absorb change after change after
change,” he said.  Refinancing applications  have more than doubled since the
start of the year, hovering for the past 10 weeks near levels
not seen since May 2009, according to Mortgage Bankers
Association data. Rates for  30-year fixed-rate loans  declined to
4.19 percent in the week ended Oct. 14, according to Freddie
Mac, the lowest since the McLean, Virginia-based company began
tracking the data in 1971.  With fewer competitors in the market, per-loan profit on
making and selling mortgages is rising, with the difference
widening between average rates on new  loans  and yields on Fannie
Mae-guaranteed bonds into which they can be packaged. The gap is
about 1 percentage point, up from about 0.45 percentage point in
the past decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refinancing Obstacles  Not all applications are turning into new loans. Many
consumers can’t qualify because of tightened lending standards
or because their homes are valued at less than their existing
mortgages, a situation known as being “underwater” that is a
major obstacle to a real estate recovery.  Completed refinancings in the third quarter were an
estimated 56 percent below the second quarter of 2004, after
applications earlier that year touched similar levels, data from
the bankers’ group show.  Meanwhile, home sales remain depressed.  Compared with a year earlier, existing home sales were down
19 percent in September before adjusting for seasonal patterns,
the National Association of Realtors said today.  Sales  fell to a
4.53 million annual rate, exceeding the 4.3 million pace that
economists forecast, according to the median projection in a
Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Fell Off a Cliff’  Ethan Gregory , a broker for First Coast Realty Associates
in Jacksonville, Florida, said sales “fell off a cliff” after
the first-time homebuyer tax credit expired earlier this year.
Low interest rates haven’t made a difference, he said.  ‘It’s unbelievably low rates,” he said in a telephone
interview. “But activity because of that doesn’t seem like
much.”  The Mortgage Bankers’ meeting convenes a little more than a
month after GMAC Mortgage stunned the industry by suspending
foreclosure evictions in 23 states. The company, a unit of
Detroit-based Ally Financial Inc., said it would review
procedures amid allegations by homeowners that it employs teams
of “robo-signers” to push through hundreds of repossessions a
week without verifying the accuracy or existence of
documentation. Lenders including Bank of America and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. followed suit, while San Francisco-based Wells Fargo
didn’t, saying it stood by its filings.  GMAC and Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North
Carolina, resumed foreclosures a few weeks later, saying they
were confident their procedures were solid.  Foreclosure Investigation  The attorneys general of all 50 states on Oct. 13 opened a
joint investigation into foreclosures to determine whether banks
and loan servicers used false documents and signatures to
justify hundreds of thousands of foreclosures.  Other practices are also questionable, Harvard Law School
visiting professor  Katherine Porter  said in a phone interview.
“With all of those misbehaviors, it is utterly implausible to
think any of the mortgage servicers have gotten that cleaned up
in the past month,” she said.  About $2 trillion, or a third, of the U.S. home loans
bundled into securities from 2005 through 2007 have defaulted or
eventually will, analysts at New York-based JPMorgan said Oct.
15. Among the bad loans being fought over are ones securitized
by Countrywide Financial Corp., once the top U.S. home lender
and now part of Bank of America.  Bond Losses  Owners of some of the bonds, which now include Pacific
Investment Management Co. of Newport Beach, California, and the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, have suffered almost $8
billion of losses on the mortgages, and more than $22 billion of
the remaining loans are at least 30 days late, Bloomberg data
show. The underlying loan balances, originally $105 billion,
stand at $47 billion after defaults, refinancing and home sales.
Pimco, New York-based  BlackRock Inc.  and the New York Fed are
seeking to force Bank of America to repurchase soured mortgages,
people familiar with the matter said last week.  Bank of America has said there is no need to take back
loans that went bad because of the weak economy. “Each loan is
different,”  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Such battles have been good news for Imarc, one of the
firms being hired to scour the files of defaulted loans.  The company has expanded to 150 employees and about $12
million in annual revenue, from six people and about $1 million
in sales three years ago, according to Bob Simpson, president of
the Santa Ana, California-based firm, formally known as
Investors Mortgage Asset Recovery Company LLC.  Examining Loan Files  “There’s a lot of desire to find out what’s in these loan
files: Whether it’s mortgage insurers or investors, people want
to know like never before,” Simpson said in a telephone
interview. “I feel like we’ve really grown up. We’ve got a HR
department, 401(k)s, health care for everybody.”  Some lenders are turning to outsourcing companies such as
Genpact Mortgage Services to help keep up amid refinancing at
“overall volumes rivaling some of the highest they’ve ever
seen,” said Taylor Woods, president of the firm, a unit of
Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Genpact Ltd.  Requests to Genpact for
U.S.-based support work have risen about 30 percent in the past
year, he said in an interview last month.  “The biggest issue for the industry other than bad loans
and foreclosures is capacity,” said  David Lykken , president of
Mortgage Banking Solutions, an Austin, Texas-based firm that
provides advice to home-loan companies.  The lack of staff industrywide stems in part from the
difficulty loans officers who don’t work at banks are having
obtaining state licenses under federal rules created this year,
Lykken said.  Fixing Foreclosures  It’s possible that fixing foreclosures “starts to consume
large amounts of originator/servicer resources,” increasing the
amount of time it takes to close on mortgages, Credit Suisse
Group AG analysts led by  Mahesh Swaminathan  wrote in an Oct. 14
report.  Home-loan originations probably rose to $403 billion in the
third quarter, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association,
which is based in Washington. New loans may fall to $262 billion
this quarter and total $1.06 trillion next year, down from $1.49
trillion in 2010.  Wells Fargo, Bank of America and JPMorgan accounted for
almost 57 percent of new mortgages in the first half of this
year, according to newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance. In 2006,
the top three lenders, Countrywide Financial, Wells Fargo and
Washington Mutual Inc., accounted for 35.4 percent. In 2008,
Bank of America bought Countrywide before it went under and
JPMorgan purchased most of Washington Mutual after it failed.  Housing Slump  An almost 30 percent slump in  U.S. home prices  since 2006
shut the market for private mortgage bonds and limited banks’
lending, leaving government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, the Federal Housing Administration and other federal
insurers to buy or guarantee about 95 percent of all mortgages,
according to Inside Mortgage Finance. That’s up from about half
in 2005 and 2006.  While only one private securitization of new U.S. mortgages
has been completed in more than two years, Wall Street firms are
“gearing up for volume and there’s pent-up demand” among
consumers for loans that don’t fit into government-backed
programs, said  Sue Allon , founder of Denver-based Allonhill,
which provides due diligence on mortgages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  