-- Tribune, Trico, Sex.com, Tronox, Lehman: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-25T13:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/trico-marine-sex-com-fulton-tronox-lehman-tousa-adelphia-bankruptcy.html
Publisher Tribune Co. filed a
modified Chapter 11 plan on Oct. 23 incorporating a revised
settlement announced this month. In addition to Tribune,
proponents of the revised plan include the official creditors’
committee, senior lenders Oaktree Capital Management LP and
Angelo Gordon & Co., and JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, as agent for
the senior lenders.  The accompanying disclosure statement says that senior
lenders, owed $8.6 billion, will recover about 71 percent
through receiving cash plus all of the new stock. Holders of
$1.28 billion in senior notes would receive $420 million in cash
for an initial recovery of about 32.7 percent.  Other unsecured creditors of the parent Tribune would
receive 35.2 percent cash or an initial 32.7 percent plus the
ability to participate in litigation recoveries. General
unsecured creditors of operating subsidiaries are to get 100
percent payment, without interest, up to a total of $150
million.  Holders of the $1.6 billion bridge loan won’t receive any
distribution unless they succeed in fending off a lawsuit set to
proceed after Tribune emerges from bankruptcy.  The settlement and the new plan are based on a settlement
with senior lenders of claims that the leveraged buyout in 2007
resulted in fraudulent transfers. Distributions under the plan
exceed what the examiner said would be probable recoveries
through litigation, according to the disclosure statement.  After bankruptcy, a trust established for creditors can
pursue lawsuits to void the bridge loan while seeking recoveries
against selling shareholders. In addition, the trust can sue
directors, officers and company advisers. The first $90 million
recovered by the trust will go to unsecured creditors, including
bondholders.  At a hearing on Oct. 22, the bankruptcy judge said he would
sign an order allowing creditors to file lawsuits based on the
2007 buyout. For Bloomberg coverage of the hearing, click here.  Any competing plans and their disclosure statements are to
be filed by Oct. 29. The company’s disclosure statement was more
than 140 pages, not including exhibits.  The arrangers for the bridge loan and the debt issued in
the second part of the leveraged buyout are providing a backstop
to insure that sufficient cash will be available for payment to
senor noteholders.  The disclosure statement says that Tribune had $1.8 billion
cash at Sept. 26, an increase of $300 million since December.
Net income for nine months this year was $121 million on $2.33
billion revenue. Operating cash flow for the period was $422
million.  The disclosure statement says that the mid-point enterprise
value for the reorganized company is $3.2 billion. Including
cash and other assets, the mid-point distributable value is
$6.75 billion. The equity value of the reorganized company is
pegged at $4.3 billion, according to the disclosure statement.  Tribune said on Oct. 22 that Randy Michaels resigned as
chief executive officer, effectively immediately. Tribune said
that a four-member executive council will take over Michaels’s
duties until a replacement is selected. The executive council
includes the chief restructuring officer, the chief investment
officer, and the publishers of the Chicago Tribune and the Los
Angeles Times.  Tribune withdrew a reorganization plan in August after the
examiner issued a report saying there was some likelihood that
the second phase of the leveraged buyout in December 2007 could
be attacked successfully as a constructively fraudulent
transfer. The examiner found less likelihood that the first
phase of the transaction in June 2007 could be attacked
successfully.  The second part of the buyout entailed the issuance of $2.1
billion on the senior credit and the $1.6 billion bridge loan.
For a summary of some of the examiner’s conclusions, click here
for the July 27 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Tribune’s abandoned
plan would have forced through a settlement some creditors
opposed.  For details on the withdrawn plan, click here for the April
13 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The $13.7 billion leveraged buyout in 2007 was led by Sam Zell.  Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District Delaware (Wilmington).  Updates  Cuban, Crane Have Opposition to Expense Reimbursement  Mark Cuban and James Crane, who bid unsuccessfully at
auction for the  Texas Rangers  baseball club, aren’t entitled to
reimbursement of $2.65 million they spent on attorneys, although
they pushed the price $100 million higher, according to an Oct.
21 bankruptcy court filing by the agent for second-lien lenders
owed $130 million.  The agent says that neither Cuban nor Crane is a creditor
and that the  Bankruptcy Code  only permits recovery by creditors
who make a substantial contribution in a bankruptcy case. The
lenders’ agent also cited prior court decisions saying that
unsuccessful bidders don’t qualify for substantial contribution
claims.  The motion by Cuban and Crane originally was to be argued
today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Fort Worth, Texas. The hearing
today instead will be a status conference. The U.S. Trustee,
according to a court filing, will make a motion for summary
judgment that will be on the Nov. 17 calendar. Assuming Cuban
and Crane survive the summary judgment motion, their request for
reimbursement will return to bankruptcy court on Dec. 6.  Crane is a Houston businessman, and Cuban owns the National
Basketball Association’s Dallas Mavericks.  Soon after the auction, the Rangers emerged from
reorganization in August with a confirmed Chapter 11 plan where
the club was purchased by a group including team President Nolan Ryan and sports lawyer Chuck Greenberg. The team is playing in
the Baseball World Series, which begins this week.  The Rangers filed under Chapter 11 in May with a sale
contract and a plan that claimed to be paying all creditors in
full. The original contract with the Ryan-Greenberg group had a
cash price of $304 million. Michael “Buzz” Rochelle, brother
of Bloomberg reporter Bill Rochelle, is a lawyer for an agent
for the lenders.  The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  Arrowgrass Says Trico Made 2009 Fraudulent Transfer  Trico Marine Services Inc., a provider of support vessels
for the offshore oil and gas industry, will have opposition at
today’s hearing for final approval of $35 million of secured
credit supplied by Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC. Opposition
comes from two funds affiliated with Arrowgrass Capital
Partners.  In papers filed Oct. 19, Arrowgrass alleges that Trico
committed fraudulent transfers in a two-step transaction between
May and October 2009 involving 8.125 percent second-lien
debentures that were issued in the first stage. The new
debentures paid off the then-outstanding 6.5 percent debentures.  Arrowgrass, which says it owns 3 percent senior convertible
debentures, contends that the transactions were made with actual
intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors. Arrowgrass also
says that Trico should have known it was insolvent by the first
quarter of 2009.  Opposition by Arrowgrass to the financing in part is
pointed at provisions providing $25 million in pre-bankruptcy
debt owing to Tennenbaum will be converted into a post-
bankruptcy obligation with a larger collateral package.
Arrowgrass contends that Tennenbaum is embarked on a strategy to
“take over non-debtor subsidiaries comprising the Trico Supply
Group.”  Filing for reorganization in August, Woodlands, Texas-based
Trico is in Chapter 11 a second time. It completed a so-called
prepackaged reorganization in early 2005 by exchanging $250
million in debt for equity. Shareholders were given warrants.  Apart from a Cayman Islands holding company, none of the
foreign subsidiaries are in bankruptcy this time. The
consolidated balance sheet for June listed assets of $904
million against liabilities totaling $1.027 billion. The
bankruptcy petition listed liabilities of $354 million for Trico
Marine.  Liabilities include $202.8 million on secured convertible
debentures and $150 million owing on unsecured convertible
debentures. Non-bankrupt Trico Shipping owes $400 million on the
11.875 percent senior secured notes.  The case is In re Trico Marine Services Inc., 10-12653,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Sea Island Lenders Settle, Creditors’ Recovery Doubled  Sea Island Co., a resort and real-estate development
company, is set for approval of the liquidating Chapter 11 plan
at a Nov. 4 confirmation hearing as the result of a settlement
between unsecured creditors and secured lenders.  The lenders are increasing the fund for unsecured creditors
to $6.33 million from $3 million. The lenders are also making
$217,000 available to finance a liquidating trust.  Directors and officers won’t receive releases, although
plaintiffs in lawsuits may only recover from directors’ and
officers’ liability insurance policies.  The settlement ended disputes over which assets are covered
by the secured lenders’ liens and which aren’t.  The settlement will come to bankruptcy court for approval
at the Nov. 4 confirmation hearing. The hearing is also to
approve the $212.4 million sale of the assets to a group
including Oaktree Capital Management LP, Avenue Capital Group,
Starwood Capital Group Global LP and Anschutz Corp. The opening
bid at auction had been $197.5 million.  Sea Island’s properties are on or near St. Simons Island
and Sea Island, Georgia.  Before the price rose at auction, Sea Island projected
having $180 million remaining after paying priority claims. If
unsecured creditors vote for the plan, they are eligible to
split up $6.33 million, for a recovery of around 6 percent on
their $100 million in claims.  The remaining $177 million under the pre-auction price
would go to secured lenders with $566 million in claims. Their
recovery originally was estimated to be 31 percent. Unsecured
creditors are expected to receive nothing if they vote against
the plan and don’t give releases.  The Chapter 11 plan and the original sale were negotiated
before the bankruptcy petition was filed on Aug. 10.  Synovus Bank,  Bank of America Corp . and Bank of Scotland
are lenders.  The case is In re Sea Island Company, 10-21034, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Georgia (Savannah).  Sex.com Domain Name Being Sold for $13 Million  The Internet domain name “sex.com” and two associated
trademark registrations are on track to be sold for $13 million
cash at a hearing Oct. 27 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Woodland
Hills, California.  The owner of the domain name, Escom LLC, previously
received permission from the judge to sell the assets in a
private sale. After marketing, Clover Holdings Ltd. made the
best bid. The bankruptcy judge scheduled the Oct. 27 hearing to
consider approval of the sale.  Three creditors filed an involuntary Chapter 7 petition in
March against Calabasas, California-based Escom. The petition
halted foreclosure by secured creditor DOM Partners LLC, owed
$4.5 million.  With a motion pending for the appointment of a Chapter 11
trustee, the company and creditors agreed on a settlement that
resulted in the approved sale and marketing procedures.  Escom acquired the domain name in January 2006, according
to a company statement.  The case is In re Escom LLC, 10-13001, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Central District California (Woodland Hills).  Banks Have Plan Competing to Reorganize Fulton Homes  Bank lenders for homebuilder Fulton Homes Corp. have a
competing reorganization plan scheduled for approval at a Dec.
28 confirmation hearing. For their plan to prevail, the banks
must first stop Fulton from confirming the company’s Chapter 11
plan at a confirmation hearing currently set for Nov. 8.  To block the company’s plan, the banks filed papers last
week saying the company’s reorganization doesn’t comply with law
and can’t be confirmed. They also claim the bankruptcy court has
denied them due process by affording too little time to take
discovery and prepare for trial on the company’s plan.  The lending group includes Bank of America NA, JPMorgan
Chase Bank NA, and Wells Fargo Bank NA.  Fulton’s plan offers the banks a “substantial cash
payment” on confirmation and senior liens to secure their
remaining debt. The new plan only gives secured suppliers 60
percent payment on confirmation in return for their $1.2 million
in claims, with the remainder secured by a lien subordinate to
the banks. The suppliers also must agree to provide “normal
trade terms.”  The plan presumes that Fulton is solvent. As a result, the
plan offers interest on unsecured claims. The company’s
valuation expert says the going-concern value is between $200
million and $210 million.  Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America NA is agent
for unsecured lenders owed about $164 million. Fulton has no
substantial secured debt. In addition to the suppliers, general
unsecured claims amount to $1.2 million.  Fulton previously said it accumulated $65 million cash
during the Chapter 11 case that began in January 2009. The
company says it generated a cumulative profit of $8.5 million
while in reorganization.  The case is In re Fulton Home Corp., 09-01298, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  Arrow Air Plan Based on MatlinPatterson Settlement  Arrow Air Inc., once the largest cargo airline in Miami,
has a hearing scheduled on Nov. 10 for approval of a disclosure
statement explaining the Chapter 11 plan.  The plan is the product of a settlement between unsecured
creditors and affiliates of MatlinPatterson Global Advisors
which are both secured lenders and controlling shareholders.  MatlinPatterson is giving up $1.6 million of its cash
collateral to fund the plan. As lender, it won’t receive any
distribution on the $34.7 million deficiency claim.  Unsecured creditors, with claims estimated to total between
$30 million and $41 million, are expected to recover 7.6 percent
on the low side to 21.9 percent tops.  The plan contemplates selling the shell of the corporation
along with the operating certificate for $800,000 cash. The
operating certificates would allow the buyer to conduct business
as an airline.  A trust for creditors will bring preference lawsuits based
on $48.6 million in payments made in the 90 days before
bankruptcy. The suits are expected to net between $1.6 million
and $6.2 million. The trust won’t sue for less than $15,000 on
the theory that the expenses of suit will exceed expected
recoveries.  Also known as Arrow Cargo, the company at one time operated
60 flights a week with four leased DC-10-30 and three leased
B757-200 aircraft.  Arrow was acquired in June 2008 by a fund affiliated with
MatlinPatterson. At bankruptcy, the funds were owed $72 million
on secured and unsecured term loans.  The case is In re Arrow Air Inc., 10-28831, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  FairPoint Amends Loan Terms to Enable Confirmation    FairPoint Communications Inc ., a local exchange carrier
with 1.7 million access lines, may soon be able to have the
judge put his name on a confirmation order approving the Chapter
11 plan, according to an Oct. 21 motion for a 101-day extension
of the exclusive right to propose a reorganization.  The bankruptcy judge couldn’t confirm the Chapter 11 plan
in May for lack of regulatory approval from Vermont, New
Hampshire and Maine. He overruled other objections to
confirmation.  Although New Hampshire and Maine later settled, Vermont
regulators refused to go along out of concern the company
couldn’t comply with its loan agreements.  The hearing on the exclusivity motion will take place Nov.
18.  FairPoint re-examined its financial condition and said in
the exclusivity motion that it “believes it now has financial
forecasts that are both reasonable and achievable.” The company
renegotiated the exit financing agreement with a steering
committee of lenders. The result was a revised loan designed for
confirmation of the plan and approval from Vermont regulators.  Although the plan will be amended, FairPoint doesn’t
believe creditors will be required to vote again because the
distribution formula won’t change.  For details on the plan, click here for the March 12
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Lenders are to own FairPoint when it emerges from Chapter
11.  FairPoint’s Chapter 11 petition listed assets of $3.236
billion against debt totaling $3.234 billion. Funded debt,
aggregating $2.7 billion, included $2 billion under a secured
credit facility, $575 million in senior unsecured notes, and $88
million on interest rate swap agreements.  The case is In re FairPoint Communications Inc., 09-16335,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District  New York  (Manhattan).  Mesa Air Extends Code-Sharing With US Airways Group    Mesa Air Group Inc . has a non-binding agreement in
principle for a 39-month extension of the agreement to fly 39
regional jets under a code-sharing agreement with US Airways
Group Inc. A statement says that the extension will reduce the
rates paid by US Airways.  Absent extension, the existing agreement would expire in
June 2012.  The hearing for approval of the disclosure statement
explaining Mesa’s reorganization plan is currently scheduled for
Nov. 10. It had been on the Oct. 26 calendar.  The new agreement with US Air is contingent on confirmation
of Mesa’s plan and approval by the bankruptcy court. For details
on Mesa’s plan and the treatment of creditors of each of the
different Mesa companies, click here for the Sept. 21 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Mesa filed under Chapter 11 in January with a fleet of 178
aircraft. At the time, 130 were operating to provide 700 daily
departures serving 127 cities in 41 states, Canada, and Mexico.
After rejecting aircraft leases, Mesa is now operating 76
aircraft making 460 departures a day.  Phoenix-based Mesa listed assets of $976 million against
debt totaling $869 million. Liabilities include $393 million on
loans secured by 24 owned aircraft, $26 million on three note
issues, and $33.6 million secured by 20 other aircraft. In
addition, there was $1.62 billion in potential liability on
aircraft leases. Mesa operates regional aircraft under code-
sharing agreements with  US Airways Group Inc . and UAL Corp.’s
United Airlines.  The case is In re Mesa Air Group Inc., 10-10018, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Petters Hedge Fund Victims Confirm Liquidating Plan  Palm Beach Finance Partners LP and Palm Beach Finance II
LP, two hedge funds forced to liquidate by unknowingly investing
in the Ponzi scheme orchestrated by  Thomas Petters , confirmed
their liquidating Chapter 11 plan last week.  Confirming the plan was made possible by a settlement with
 Kaufman Rossin & Co. , a Florida-based accounting firm that
provided accounting services for the funds. The Kaufman firm
agreed to pay almost $10 million in settlement of claims by
hedge funds. The almost $10 million being paid by the Kaufman
firm will be divided under a formula with offshore liquidators
of affiliates.  The two funds filed for Chapter 11 protection in November
2009, following public disclosure of the Petters fraud in Sept.
2008. The two funds have some $143 million in claims by limited
partner investors and another $790 in claims by unsecured
creditors.  Petters was given a 50-year prison sentence.  The hedge funds’ Chapter 11 case is In re Palm Beach
Finance Partners LP, 09-36379, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District Florida (West Palm Beach).  New Filings  San Antonio Jet-Plane Maker Emivest Files in Delaware  Emivest Aerospace Corp. , a manufacturer of a private jet
aircraft, filed for Chapter 11 protection on Oct. 20 in
Delaware, saying assets and debt are both between $50 million
and $100 million.  Previously named Sino Swearingen Aircraft, the company is
located at the airport in San Antonio. Emivest’s SJ30 is the
“world’s fastest, highest flying and longest range, light
business jet,” according to a court filing.  Although there is an order backlog of more than 200
aircraft, Emivest said it could deliver three aircraft in the
next two years, if financing is available. The last delivery was
in November 2009. Each copy costs $7.2 million.  Debt includes $38.4 million on a secured revolving credit
owing to Emivest Aviation (US) LLC, the controlling shareholder.
The company owes another $15 million to Taiwan’s Yao-Hwa Glass
Co. on a promissory note. There is a $4.2 million arbitration
award in favor of Wells Fargo Securities LLC for breach of an
agreement to raise capital.  Lenders have agreed to provide $4 million in secured
financing, with $1 million to be available on an interim basis.
The motion for approval of financing is on the calendar for
hearing today.  The company originally was funded by the government of
Taiwan. Emivest Aviation acquired a controlling interest in
2008.  The case is In re Emivest Aerospace Corp., 10-13391, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Virginia’s Movie Starz Rental Chain Files Chapter 11  The owner of the 22-store movie rental chain known as Movie
Starz Video filed a Chapter 11 petition on Oct. 21 in Roanoke,
Virginia. The company is making arrangements to close as few as
four stores.  Court papers say a decision may be made to close all
stores. The stores are in Virginia and  West Virginia .
Competition was blamed for the filing.  The company, formally named Adventure Entertainment Inc.,
said that revenue of $8.9 million in 2008 is estimated to
decline this year to $6.8 million. There was a $308,000 net loss
in 2009 on sales of $7.6 million.  The petition says debt is less than $10 million.  The case is In re Adventure Entertainment Inc., 10-72517,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of Virginia (Roanoke).  Watch List  Contech, Maker of Corrugated Steel and Pipe, May Restructure  Contech Construction Products Inc., a West Chester, Ohio-
based manufacturer of corrugated steel and plastic pipe, will
“likely” need an amendment or waiver of bank loan covenants,
according to an Oct. 22 report by  Standard & Poor’s .  S&P also said Contech will “possibly” restructure debt,
which includes subordinated notes and notes issued by the
holding company. S&P lowered the corporate rating another two
clicks to CC.  Financial problems are resulting from what S&P said is
“lower than expected housing starts and continued weak
commercial construction.”  Koosharem Still Hasn’t Filed 2009 Financial Statements  Koosharem Corp., a staffing services provider also known as
 SelectRemedy , still hasn’t delivered audited financial
statements for 2009. As a result, first-lien lenders suspended
the company’s ability to borrow, according to Standard & Poor’s.  Noting that the lenders have the right to accelerate the
debt, S&P on Oct. 22 lowered Koosharem’s corporate rating to
CCC-, a one-notch demotion.  S&P noted that an offer to convert a $100 million term loan
into equity failed in February, the same month that Koosharem
was acquired by Atlas Acquisition Holdings Corp.  The Santa Barbara, California-based company is one of the
10 largest temporary-staffing providers in the U.S. Total debt
in September was $588 million, S&P said.  Koosharem has about 420 offices in 40 states. About half of
its revenue is generated in California, according to S&P.  Briefly Noted  Tronox Has $12.3 Million Gross Margin in September    Tronox Inc ., the world’s third-largest producer of the
white pigment titanium dioxide, filed an operating report
showing a $19.8 million net loss in September on net sales of
$59.9 million. The gross margin was $12.3 million, and
reorganization items were $26.6 million.  Creditors are voting on the Chapter 11 plan in anticipation
of a Nov. 17 confirmation hearing. The equity committee withdrew
what would have been a competing plan. Tronox’s revised plan is
financed in part by a $185 million backstopped rights offering.
For details on Tronox’s plan, click here for the Sept. 2
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The Chapter 11 petition by Tronox in January 2009 listed
assets of $1.56 billion against debt totaling $1.22 billion.
Debt includes $213 million on a secured term loan and revolving
credit, $350 million in 9.5 percent senior notes, and a $40.7
million accounts receivable securitization facility. Tronox’s
products are used in paints, coatings, plastics, paper and
consumer products. The operations outside of the U.S. did not
file.  The case is In re Tronox Inc., 09-10156, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Lehman Settlement for $445 Million With Soc Gen Approved    Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . received bankruptcy court
approval on Oct. 21 for settlement of a complex credit-default
swap involving Societe General, New York Branch, designed to
generate least $445 million. For details on the settlement,
click here for the Sept. 22 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The Lehman holding company and its non-brokerage
subsidiaries filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement in April. For details, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports. Lehman said it
intends on amending the plan in the last quarter of the year and
have the plan approved in a confirmation order by March.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Tousa Cash Grows $40.5 Million in Sept. to $514 Million  Liquidating homebuilder  Tousa Inc . grew cash by $40.5
million in September thanks mostly to a $42.4 million sale of
most of the assets in Arizona, Nevada, and Colorado to RERF
Acquisition Co., an affiliate of New York-based hedge fund
Paulson & Co. The cash balance at the end of September was
$514.06 million.  Oral argument was held last week on the bank lenders’
appeals from a judgment by the bankruptcy judge in October 2009
finding that the bailout and refinancing in mid-2007 of a joint
venture in Transeastern Properties Inc. included fraudulent
transfers.  Tousa has a hearing on Oct. 27 for approval of a disclosure
statement explaining the Chapter 11 plan filed in July. For a
summary of the plan, click here for the July 20 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. The plan assumes appellate courts uphold the
judgment the creditors’ committee won in October 2009 against
the lenders.  Tousa filed for bankruptcy reorganization in January 2008.
The Hollywood, Florida-based company listed assets of $2.1
billion against debt totaling $2 billion. At the outset of the
reorganization it was 67 percent-owned by  Technical Olympic SA .  The case is In re Tousa Inc., 08-10928, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  Adelphia Creditors’ Trust Settles With Banks for $175 Million  The trust created for creditors of Adelphia Communications
Corp. reached a $175 million settlement with bank lenders being
sued for aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duty by
company officers and directors. The banks include  Citigroup
Inc ., Bank of America Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co .  Adelphia founder John Rigas and his son Timothy Rigas
reported to federal prison in August 2007 to serve their
respective 15 years and 20 year sentences for conspiracy, bank
fraud and securities fraud.  The settlement headed off a trial to have begun this week.
For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Adelphia’s liquidating Chapter 11 plan was implemented in
February 2007 with an initial distribution of $11.2 billion in
cash and stock to creditors.  The Chapter 11 case is In re Adelphia Communications Corp.,
02-41729, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The lawsuit against the banks is Adelphia Recovery
Trust v. Bank of America N.A., 05-cv-9050, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Sawgrass Marriott Has $2.3 Million September Net Loss  The  Sawgrass Marriott Resort  in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida,
reported $2.28 million in revenue during September, about
$835,000 below budgeted revenue. The operating loss for the
month was $148,000, and the loss before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization was $395,000. The month’s net loss
was $2.3 million, according to the operating report filed with
the bankruptcy court.  The resort and the secured lender Goldman Sachs Mortgage
Co. are in litigation over the value of the property. The
lender, owed $193 million, claims it is worth $135.3 million.
The owner pegs the value at $90 million.  The resort filed under Chapter 11 on March 1 in
Jacksonville, Florida, saying assets and debt both exceed $100
million.  The case is In re RQB Resort LP, 10-01596, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Middle District of Florida (Jacksonville).  Thompson Publishing Reports $410,000 September Net Loss  Thompson Publishing Holding Co., a publisher of newsletters
and loose-leaf services, reported a $410,000 net loss in
September on revenue of $1.4 million. Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization were $173,000. The net loss
was narrowed by a $221,000 tax benefit.  Secured lenders are aiming to buy the business in exchange
for debt at a Nov. 17 auction. Bids are due Nov. 12. The hearing
for approval of the sale is set for Nov. 19.  If no one else bids, the first-lien lenders intend to buy
Thompson in exchange for $42 million in secured debt. The
lenders also will assume liabilities on subscriptions and
obligations to employees.  Based in Washington, Thompson has 300 products and 70,000
subscribers. The company expects revenue will decline this year
to $49 million. Debt includes $122.6 million owing on first-lien
debt with PNC Bank NA serving as agent. Second-lien creditors,
owed $43.5 million, have Ableco Finance LLC as agent.  Controlled by Avista Capital Partners LP, Thompson
generated 74 percent of income from subscription. The company
also arranges conferences and employee training events.  The case is In re Thompson Publishing Holding Co., 10-
13070, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Accredited Home Disclosure Slowed, Exclusivity Given  Accredited Home Lenders Holding Co., a former home mortgage
originator and securitizer, had been banking on approval of the
disclosure statement at an Oct. 20 hearing. Now that the plan-
disclosure document won’t be approved before Nov. 2 at the
earliest, the bankruptcy court last week extended the exclusive
right of the company to solicit acceptances of a plan until Jan.
1.  A settlement where the owner Lone Star Funds would pay
$15.6 million cash is a principal feature of the plan. Lone Star
is giving up its own claims.  The disclosure statement says that unsecured creditors of
the holding company are expected to recover as much as 30
percent on more than $20 million in claims while unsecured
creditors of the operating companies, whose claim total $106
million, might see 67 percent to 100 percent.  Accredited sold the mortgage-servicing business after the
Chapter 11 filing in May 2009. Most of the mortgage loans were
sold later. The Chapter 11 petition for Accredited Home said
assets were less than $50 million while debt exceeded $100
million.  The case is In re Accredited Home Lenders Holding Co., 09-
11516, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Daufuskie Island Resort Headed for Sale to Lenders  Daufuskie Island Resort & Breathe Spa on Hilton Head
Island,  South Carolina , attracted no qualified cash bidders at
the Oct. 21 auction. In court today, the company will ask the
bankruptcy judge to approve the sale of the properties on so-
called credit bids, where secured lenders exchange debt for
ownership.  The sale was the resort’s second. The owner, Daufuskie
Island Properties LLC, was authorized in January to sell the
project for $49.5 million to Montauk Resorts LLC. The buyer was
unable to complete the acquisition.  The Chapter 11 case was filed in January 2009 in
Charleston, South Carolina. A Chapter 11 trustee was appointed
later. The petition listed assets of $97.1 million against debt
of $88.2 million. Debt includes $71.6 million owing to secured
creditors. The real estate was listed as having a value of $87.7
million.  The case is In re Daufuskie Island Properties LLC, 09-
00389, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of South Carolina
(Charleston).    NutraCea  Confirms Full-Payment Liquidating Plan    NutraCea , a processor of byproducts from rice milling, won
approval of a full-payment liquidating Chapter 11 plan at an
Oct. 19 confirmation hearing, court records show. The company
sold a non-core facility in Phoenix for $4.5 million and paid
off remaining secured debt.  The plan pays unsecured creditors in full with interest.
The distribution to unsecured creditors is to be some $6.2
million.  NutraCea filed under Chapter 11 in November, listing assets
of $83.7 million and debt totaling $18.9 million. NutraCea
developed processes for converting raw rice bran into stabilized
rice bran for use in food and feed products.  The case is In re NutraCea, 09-28817, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  Schutt Receives Approval for $2 Million Management Bonuses  Schutt Sports Inc., a football-helmet manufacturer, was
given authorization from the bankruptcy court on Oct. 21 to
adopt a bonus program that could pay company managers as much as
$2 million. Schutt was forced into Chapter 11 after being hit
with a $29 million patent-infringement judgment in favor of
competitor Riddell Inc.  The program would pay a minimum of $842,000 in bonuses,
assuming the lowest targets are met. The award could go as high
as $2 million.  Based in Litchfield, Illinois, Schutt said in the Chapter
11 petition on Sept. 6 that assets and debt both exceed $50
million.  The case is In re Schutt Sports Inc., 10-12795, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Downgrade  Getty Images Downgraded on $495 Million Dividend  Getty Images Inc., the largest archive of pictures for the
media and advertisers, is taking on an additional $480 million
in debt to provide part of the cash necessary for a $495 million
special dividend to the owners, according to Moody’s Investors
Service.  Moody’s lowered the corporate rating by one grade to Ba3 on
Oct. 22.  Seattle-based Getty was acquired in July 2008 in a $1.915
billion transaction by private-equity investor Hellman &
Friedman LLC.  Bank Failures  Seven Bank Failures Bring Year’s to Total to 139  Seven bank failures on Oct. 22 brought the year’s total to
139, one shy of the number of banks taken over by regulators in
all of 2009.  Last week’s failing banks had a combined $2.4 billion in
assets. The banks were in Kansas, Florida, Georgia, Arizona and
Illinois.  To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The 140 bank failures in 2009 were five times more than
2008. The failures in 2009 were the most since 1992, when 179
institutions were taken over by regulators.  Advance Sheets  Bankruptcy Trustees Can’t Sue on Alter Ego Claim  California law doesn’t recognize a so-called alter ego
claim allowing a bankruptcy trustee to make a company’s owner
individually liable for all of a company’s debt, the U.S. Court
of Appeals in San Francisco ruled on Oct. 21.  The 9th Circuit in San Francisco reversed the district
court, which had ruled that only a bankruptcy trustee could file
suit to pierce the corporate veil when the alleged harm was done
to all creditors.  The Court of Appeals reversed because three circuit judges
interpret California law as not having an independent alter ego
claim.  Law on piercing the corporate veil, sometimes referred to
as alter ego, deals with situations where an individual can be
liable for a corporation’s debt.  The case is Ahcom Ltd. v. Smedling, 09-16020, U.S. 9th
Circuit Court of Appeals (San Francisco).  No Judgment Required to Bar Malicious Injury Debt  The victim of a willful or malicious personal injury isn’t
required to have a judgment before the defendant’s Chapter 13
bankruptcy filing for the debt to be excepted from discharge,
U.S. District Judge Joel A. Pisano in Newark,  New Jersey , ruled
on Oct. 20.  The case involved an assault where the defendant pleaded
guilty to one count of aggravated assault in the third degree.
Before the victim of the assault could obtain judgment in a
civil suit, the defendant filed Chapter 13 bankruptcy.  The bankrupt argued that the plain meaning of the word
“awarded” in Section 1328(a)(4) of the Bankruptcy Code means
that there must have been a judgment before bankruptcy for the
debt to be non-dischargeable.  Although he said the courts are split on the question,
Pisano agreed with a majority of courts and said that the debt
can be barred from discharge even if the judgment is made after
bankruptcy.  The case is Lepore v. Kerner, 10-1472, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 