-- Nouriel Roubini Sees `Cloudy' Outlook for Export-Driven Argentine Economy
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-25T20:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/roubini-sees-a-cloudy-outlook-for-argentina-economy-to-decline-in-2011.html
Nouriel Roubini , the New York
University professor who predicted the global financial crisis,
said the outlook for Argentina’s economy is “cloudy” and gross
domestic product is slated to decline in 2011 as the global
slowdown may lead to less exports.  The country’s “loose” fiscal and monetary policies have
encouraged domestic demand and led to high  inflation , Roubini
said today in a speech in Buenos Aires.  “While overall economic growth is still robust right now,
the economic outlook is cloudy because of external factors and
domestic factors,” Roubini said. “The  growth  of the economy
that is coming from the net export part of the economy is going
to weaken over time because global economic growth is slowing
down and exports and imports globally are going to slow down.”  South America’s second-biggest economy may expand 9.5
percent this year, the fastest pace since 1992, according to the
central bank, after a 0.9 percent expansion in 2009. President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has encouraged economic growth by
stimulating domestic consumption, raising wages, pensions and
helping companies save jobs during the 2009 global crisis.  Roubini said that the peso’s appreciation in real terms,
due to an annual inflation rate of about 20 percent, may lead to
a weakening of competitiveness in overseas markets. In nominal
terms, the peso has weakened 3.4 percent in the past 12 months.  “With a domestic economy that is driven by mostly domestic
demand right now, artificially boosted by easy money, easy
credit and easy fiscal policy, and an external sector that so
far is doing well, but with the fixed exchange rate and high
inflation, the real appreciation is going to lead to a
significant weakening of that account,” Roubini said.  Some government decisions, including using central bank
 reserves  to pay debt, the nationalization of the pension funds
and questions over the 2011 presidential election are
discouraging the capital inflows seen by other emerging market
nations such as China, Brazil and Turkey, Roubini said.  Argentina, which last year reported a record $17 billion
trade surplus, is the world’s third-largest soybean producer and
second-biggest corn exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  