-- Rubber Futures Gain as Crude Oil's Rally Boosts Appeal, China May Purchase
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-10-25T08:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/rubber-futures-gain-as-crude-oil-s-rally-boosts-appeal-china-may-purchase.html
Rubber in Tokyo neared a 27-month
high as futures in Shanghai surged by the daily price limit amid
speculation that China, the world’s largest consumer, may step
up purchases to replenish stockpiles.  The most-active contract on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
gained as much as 1.7 percent to 339.5 yen per kilogram ($4,206
a metric ton), nearing a 27-month high of 343 yen reached on Oct.
15, before settling at 337.5 yen.  Chinese buyers may increase imports after cash-rubber
prices in Thailand declined and as wet weather curbed supply
from domestic producers, said  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at
Tokyo-based broker Fujitomi Co.  “Chinese buyers may step up purchases, taking advantage of
a drop in the physical market, as they are eager to replenish
stockpiles,” Saito said by phone today. “China’s imports may
also increase as rains constrained local output.”  May-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
advanced by the daily limit to 32,955 yuan ($4,952) a ton,
nearing a record high of 33,000 yuan reached on Oct. 19.  Shippers in Thailand, the largest exporter, have reduced
offers for so-called RSS-3 grade rubber for November shipment to
about $3.94 per kilogram from $4 a week earlier, Saito said.  Natural rubber  inventories  increased by 3,880 tons to
41,681 tons, the highest level in six months, the Shanghai
Futures Exchange said on Oct. 22, based on a survey of 10
warehouses in Shanghai, Shandong, Yunnan, Hainan and Tianjin.  China Buyers  “Chinese buyers are eager to add rubber to their
stockpiles” before the wintering, or low-production season,
starts in Thailand early next year, Saito said.  Torrential rains this month in Hainan after a severe
drought in Yunnan at the beginning of this year, the top two
producing areas in China, will reduce domestic rubber output,
according to Guo Cheng, an analyst at Yongan Futures Co.  Natural-rubber imports by China jumped 19 percent from a
month earlier to 190,000 tons in September as the country’s
 passenger-car sales  to dealerships quickened from August on
additional incentives for buyers.  Wholesale deliveries of passenger cars rose 19.3 percent to
1.21 million, accelerating from 18.7 percent in August, the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said Oct. 12.  Rubber futures also gained as oil rallied for a second day,
raising the appeal of the commodity as an alternative to
synthetic products made from petroleum, Saito said.  Oil advanced on forecasts that the U.S. economy probably
grew at a faster pace in the third quarter, signaling a recovery
in fuel demand in the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Gains Limited  Gains in rubber futures in Tokyo were limited as the
Japanese currency reached a 15-year high against the dollar,
cutting the appeal of yen-denominated contracts.  Japan’s currency advanced on speculation the country will
refrain from intervening in foreign-exchange markets to curb the
yen’s strength.  G-20 officials pledged to refrain from “competitive
devaluation” and to let markets set foreign-exchange values as
they sought to calm fears that a trade war may break out if
nations use cheaper currencies to spur growth.  “Japan is unlikely to do any intervention of a physical
nature until after the G-20 meetings in November,” said  Douglas Borthwick , Stamford, Connecticut-based head of trading at Faros
Trading LLC.  Officials called for more sustainable current-account gaps
as they ended talks in South Korea on Oct. 23. The G-20 Seoul
Summit will be held on Nov. 11 and 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  