-- Facebook Investor Mail.ru Seeks $876 Million in IPO
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-10-25T09:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/russian-facebook-investor-mail-ru-seeks-876-million-in-ipo.html
Mail.ru Group Ltd., a Russian
Internet company with stakes in Facebook Inc. and Zynga Game
Network Inc., is seeking as much as $876 million in an initial
public offering in London.  Mail.ru, partly owned by billionaire  Alisher Usmanov  and
South Africa’s Naspers Ltd., is offering 31.62 million shares
in the form of global depository receipts for $23.70 to $27.70
each, according to a regulatory filing today. The company will
sell 3 million new shares while existing shareholders including
the company’s founders will sell the rest, according to a term 
sheet for the sale obtained by Bloomberg News.  “It’s the only way to get exposure to Facebook so it might
attract a broad range of investors,”  Michael Kart , a managing
partner at Moscow-based investment firm Marshall Spectrum Ltd.,
which is considering investing in the listing, said in a phone
interview. “This is a sector which is not available on the
market which means the placement will probably be at a premium
to western firms like Google and Yahoo.”  Russian companies are planning the biggest wave of IPOs
since before the credit crisis as record-low bond yields stoke
investor appetite for higher returns from equities. O’Key Group
SA, Russia’s third-biggest food retailer, is planning to raise
$540 million in London this year, while Severstal’s gold unit,
Nord Gold NV, may seek $1 billion, three people familiar with
the talks said Oct. 19.  The company will use primary proceeds to partly fund the
$112.5 million acquisition of a further 7.5 stake in Russian
social network service vKontakte, Mail.ru said in the statement.
It will own 32.49 percent of the service after the transaction.  Selling Founders  Mail.ru revenue may jump 51 percent this year to $301
million, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., one of the IPO
managers. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization are likely to rise 70 percent to $104 million,
according to Goldman Sachs, which owns 1 percent of Mail.ru.  Mail.ru founders  Gregory Finger ,  Yuri Milner  and  Mikhail Vinchel  will be selling shares in the IPO.  Moscow-based Mail.ru holds 2.4 percent in Facebook, 5.1
percent in Groupon Inc. and 1.5 percent in Zynga Game Network,
according to an Oct. 11 statement. The three stakes may be worth
a total of $900 million, more than double their combined book
value of $340 million, Goldman Sachs analysts estimated.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and Russia’s state-run
VTB Capital are also managing the IPO. The banks will take
orders for the IPO from today through the week starting Nov. 8,
terms show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Corcoran  at   Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net  