-- Assured Guaranty Loses Bond Insurers' Last AAA Rating
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-10-25T15:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/s-p-lowers-assured-guaranty-corp-and-affiliate-ratings-to-aa-from-aaa.html
Assured Guaranty Ltd. , the bond
insurer backed by billionaire  Wilbur Ross , was stripped of the
bond insurance industry’s last AAA rating as Standard & Poor’s
said investors and issuers are weaning themselves from the
guarantees the companies offer.  S&P cut its financial strength and counterparty credit
rankings on Assured Guaranty Corp. and Assured Guaranty
Municipal Corp. one level to AA+, according to a statement today
from the New York-based rankings firm.  The AAA ratings held by the units before the move were the
last for a bond insurer after guarantors from MBIA Inc. to Ambac
Financial Group Inc. were stripped of the rankings in 2008 amid
a housing crisis that saddled the insurers with potential losses
from mortgage-related bets. Assured fell more than 13 percent as
S&P questioned the potential for a reemergence of a “strong and
vital” bond insurance industry.  “The current state of the financial guarantee market, with
only one organization issuing new policies, is symptomatic of
investors’ and issuers’ diminished demand for bond insurance,”
S&P analyst  David Veno  said in the statement. The longer that
persists, the analyst said, “the more limited the potential for
the reemergence of a strong and vital bond insurance sector.”  Assured is alone in writing new insurance in the $2.8
trillion municipal-bond market after leaders MBIA and Ambac
faltered because of guarantees on securities linked to home
loans that soured.  S&P left its outlook for Assured as “stable,” saying it
expects it to maintain “its relatively strong position” in the
industry.  Assured shares fell $2.85, or 13.4 percent to $18.43 as of
11:48 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Before
today, the shares had climbed 13.6 percent this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 