-- Existing Home Sales in U.S. Probably Rose for a Second Month
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-25T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-probably-rose-unemployment-limits-progress.html
Sales  of U.S. existing homes
probably climbed in September for a second month as the industry
that precipitated the worst recession since the 1930s struggled
to overcome mounting foreclosures, economists said before a
report today.  Purchases rose to a 4.3 million annual rate, up 4.1 percent
from August, according to the median of 64  estimates  in a
Bloomberg News survey. The readings over the past three months
would be the lowest since comparable records began in 1999.  An overhang of distressed properties and a  jobless rate 
that is hovering near 10 percent may depress home values and rob
Americans of the confidence needed to commit to major purchases.
Concerns over faulty foreclosure proceedings at some of the
nation’s biggest banks also threaten to delay the mending
process even more.  “Housing is very much a casualty of the recession,” said
 Robert Dye , a senior economist at PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. in Pittsburgh. “Despite extremely low rates and favorable
pricing, buyers are still extremely cautious. I do think we’ve
hit a bottom, but that does not imply a quick turnaround.”  The National Association of Realtors is scheduled to
release the sales figures at 10 a.m. in Washington. Survey
estimates ranged from 4 million to 4.8 million. Comparable data,
which combines single-family houses and condominiums, began in
1999.  Tax Credit  A government tax credit of as much as $8,000 gave housing a
temporary lift late last year and into 2010. Purchases plunged
in July, the month after buyers were originally required to
close deals in order to get the incentive. Sales of existing
houses are lower than the 4.83 million average pace set during
the recession that ended in June 2009, and are well off the
record 7.25 million peak reached in September 2005.  Foreclosure moratoria at  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and other
banks, along with government investigations into faulty
paperwork, threaten to further delay a recovery as houses slated
for repossession take longer to come to market.  Foreclosures are mounting as out-of-work Americans can’t
meet monthly payments while growing numbers of homeowners,
seeing their home prices slide to less than their mortgage
values, also default.  Unemployment forecast to exceed 9 percent through 2011 is
another reason why any recovery in housing may take years to
evolve, even with  30-year mortgage  rates near record lows.  Federal Reserve  Fed officials have signaled they may start another round of
unconventional monetary easing at their next meeting Nov. 3.
Most economists, including Nobel laureate  Joseph Stiglitz  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc .’s chief U.S. economist  Jan Hatzius , see
the measures having little effect on economic growth.  Housing markets were “weak,” with “sluggish or
declining” sales in many regions, the Fed said last week in its
survey of regional districts for September and early October.
“Respondents’ outlooks suggested sales and construction would
remain subdued through year-end,” restrained in part by lending
standards and “general economic uncertainty,” the Fed said.  Housing starts in September were 73 percent below the
three-decade peak of 2.27 million reached in January 2006.  “The homebuilding market remains quite challenging, but
there are a number of signs that we’re bouncing along the
bottom,”  Larry Sorsby , chief financial officer at Hovnanian
Enterprises Inc., the largest homebuilder in New Jersey, said
during an Oct. 7 conference call. “The first sign of recovery
is we’ve got to reach bottom, and it certainly appears that we
have.”  The lack of demand has depressed homebuilding stocks this
year. The  S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding  Index, which includes
D.R. Horton Inc. and Lennar Corp., is down 7 percent since Dec.
31. The broader S&P 500 is up 6.1 percent.  President  Barack Obama  and the Democrats are confronted
with voter anger over the state of the economy less than two
weeks before the congressional election. An Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg
National Poll shows almost two-thirds of voters believe the
country is on the wrong track and unemployment is the top
concern for about half of the electorate.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  