-- Saskatchewan May Use Potash Price Surge to Avoid Debt Sale: Canada Credit
-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 2010-10-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/saskatchewan-may-use-potash-price-surge-to-avoid-debt-sale-canada-credit.html
Saskatchewan bonds are outperforming
the rest of Canada’s regions as a rise in oil exploration and
potash prices means the province may avoid further planned debt
sales this year.  Relative yields on Saskatchewan’s  notes  fell to within 56
basis points of government bonds on Oct. 22, from 62 basis
points a month earlier, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Index data. Spreads on the provincial index were little
changed over that period.  Saskatchewan is the only Canadian province forecast to post
a surplus this fiscal year after prices for crude oil and potash
rose, boosting its royalty take. The province may avoid going to
the market for the final C$500 million ($487 million) portion of
a planned C$1 billion in debt sales this year, strategists said.  “Spreads tighten on the rarity of supply,” said  Jean Francois Godin , vice president of fixed income with Desjardins
Securities Inc. in Montreal. “So far, they’ve achieved about
half of their borrowing needs. If the economy stays good we may
not see them again this year.”  Saskatchewan, which ships more oil to the U.S. than Kuwait,
said in August revenue would rise by C$194 million in the year
ending March 31 as energy companies snapped up exploration
properties. It has C$11 billion in debt outstanding, the sixth-
highest level among provinces, Godin said. The region’s debt is
about 19 percent of gross domestic product, compared with about
40 percent for Ontario, the largest issuer of provincial bonds.  Potash Demand  The province is benefitting from higher prices for potash,
which have risen 2.8 percent since the fiscal year started.
Saskatchewan is the biggest producer of the soil nutrient, and
home to  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , the target of a
proposed $40 billion hostile takeover by BHP Billiton Ltd.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt was unchanged last week at 142 basis points, or
1.42 percentage point, according to a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index. The spread was as wide as 154 basis points in June.  Corporate bonds returned 0.37 percent last week and 8
percent on the year. Average yields rose to 3.58 percent, from
3.54 percent on Oct. 19, the lowest level since Merrill Lynch
started tracking the data in June 1992.  Royal Bank of Canada  sold C$1.5 billion of notes maturing
in November 2020 to yield 128.5 basis points over comparable
government bonds. Fortis Alberta sold C$125 million of 4.8
percent bonds maturing in October 2050, priced to yield 135
basis points over government debt.  Provincial Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canada’s provinces rather than federal government securities
narrowed on Oct. 22 by 1 basis point to 53 basis points. The
provincial bonds returned 0.56 percent last week and 8.5 percent
this year.  Canadian provincial bonds are outperforming corporate
issues during the second half of the year. The Bank of Canada
cut economic growth projections Oct. 20 and said the withdrawal
of monetary stimulus would be gradual amid weakness in the U.S.
economy and slowing domestic consumption and housing markets.  A slowdown could bolster demand for bonds from western
Canadian provinces which rely on commodity revenue for much of
their income, Godin said.  “A lot of people believe western provinces will do better
in the case of an economic slowdown,” Godin said. “They have
better prospects due to commodities prices.”  Pension Liabilities  Saskatchewan’s unfunded pension liabilities will probably
increase debt in the 2010-11 fiscal year before leveling off and
starting a gradual decline,  Travis Shaw , an assistant vice
president of Dominion Bond Rating Services, said in an
interview. The company rates the province’s long-term debt AA,
two levels below the top rating.  “Unfunded pension liability is one of the main drivers in
boosting debt,” Shaw said. “In Saskatchewan it’s expected to
peak in the next few years; that may be favorable for them.”  The province has a considerable amount of cash on hand, he
said. That could be used to temper unexpected expenses or a
turnaround in commodities prices.  “Commodities were positive prior to the downturn,” Shaw
said. “They definitely add to the level of volatility. Going
forward it’s something we want to assess.”  Saskatchewan will likely continue to find eager buyers if
it decides to issue bonds this year, Desjardin’s Godin said.  “Saskatchewan debt finds a place in portfolios quite
rapidly when it comes to market - it vanishes in the blink of an
eye,” Godin said. If they have lower debt when they come to the
market to refinance they will pay less than their peers.”  Saskatchewan forecasts it will end the year with C$797.3
million in its Growth and Financial Security Fund, Randy Burton,
a spokesman for the finance ministry, said in an e-mail. That’s
C$286.5 million, or 56 percent, more than the government planned
to put in the so-called rainy day fund when the budget was set.  “The money is there if we need it,” Burton said. He
declined to comment on future bond sales. “Saskatchewan is
paying down its debt, meaning the supply of bonds is low,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gene Laverty  in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 