-- Saskatchewan Stand on BHP Bid Not Bargaining Position
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-10-25T21:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/saskatchewan-s-opposition-to-bhp-s-potash-bid-not-a-bargaining-position-.html
Saskatchewan Premier  Brad Wall  said
his province’s opposition to  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion
hostile takeover offer for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  is
not a bargaining stance.  “It’s our position and we will continue to make that case
in the days ahead,” Wall said today in a telephone interview.
“It’s not a bargaining position.”  Wall said last week he is recommending the country’s
federal government reject BHP’s hostile bid because it wouldn’t
provide a net benefit for Canada or his province. Under the
 Investment Canada Act , the federal government can block any
transaction valued at C$299 million ($294 million) or more if it
finds it doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to the country.  Canada has until Nov. 3 to complete a review of the bid,
unless Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s largest mining company,
agrees to an extension.  Wall said today he favors an extension of Investment
Canada’s review of the proposed transaction for Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp., the world’s largest producer of
its namesake crop nutrient.  “More time the better, frankly, for this to be talked
about across our country,” Wall said in the interview. “This
is like no other deal that has been the subject of a review by
Investment Canada because of its size in terms of dollars, but
also because of the amount of the resource that’s being
transferred to a company that’s based in Melbourne versus
Saskatoon.”  BHP Offer  Saskatchewan rejected an offer of C$370 million of
infrastructure investment from BHP, according to an Oct. 19 e-
mail from an official of the Canadian province.  The investment doesn’t come close to offsetting the
C$3 billion in revenue Saskatchewan will lose over 10 years
should BHP acquire Potash Corp., said the official, who declined
to be identified because the talks between BHP and the province
were private.  The BHP executive who heads BHP’s non-ferrous businesses,
which includes fertilizers, said on Oct. 22 his company may not
seek an extension of the review.  “I’m not that interested, I want the whole thing done by
Nov. 3,”  Andrew Mackenzie  said Oct. 22 in a telephone interview
from Ottawa. “All the facts are on the table and it would
benefit from an early resolution.”  Wall said he expects to meet with federal Industry Minister
 Tony Clement  this week to discuss the issue, without providing
an exact time or location.  Calgary Speech  Wall plans to speak publicly about his opposition to the
takeover at the Economic Club of Canada in Toronto on Oct. 29,
 Kathy Young , a spokeswoman for the premier, said today in an
e-mail. Wall scrapped plans to speak tomorrow in Calgary because
of scheduling issues, Young said.  “We’re going to make this case right up until the federal
government makes its decision,” said Wall, who highlighted the
“strategic” importance of Saskatchewan’s reserves of potash in
an Oct. 21 speech to business leaders in Regina, the provincial
capital.  ‘Branch Office’  Wall today in a statement urged Canada’s federal government
to take note of comments attributed to former BHP Chairman  Don Argus  in a 2008 article. Argus, quoted in Hellenic Shipping
News, warned that too much foreign control of natural-resources
companies in Australia risked turning that country into a
“branch office -- just like Canada.”  BHP spokeswoman  Bronwyn Wilkinson  said Potash Corp. had
“drifted from its Canadian roots” under the company’s existing
management. “BHP Billiton will return control of the business
to Saskatchewan from Chicago,” she said today in a telephone
interview from Vancouver.  Potash Corp.  rose  $1.91, or 1.3 percent, to $143.70 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  BHP 
gained 53.5 pence, or 2.4 percent, to 2,252.5 in London.  Potash Corp. rejected BHP’s offer in August  as too low  and
said it was seeking alternative offers amid rising prices for
agricultural commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 