-- Saudi Basic Industries Plans to Sell Five-Year Bonds in Dollars, CFO Says
-- B y   I n a l   E r s a n   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-10-25T11:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/saudi-basic-industries-plans-to-sell-five-year-bonds-in-dollars-cfo-says.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. , the
world’s largest petrochemical maker known as Sabic, plans to
sell dollar-denominated bonds as soon as this week to refinance
debt, Chief Financial Officer Mutlaq al-Morished said.  The company expects its bonds to be priced tomorrow, al-
Morished said in a telephone interview today.  Sabic plans to sell five-year bonds that may be priced to
yield “in the high 100 basis-point range” over the benchmark
mid-swap rate, two people with knowledge of the sale said
earlier today.  HSBC Holdings Plc , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc are managing the issue and the notes
will be sold through SABIC I BV., said the people, who declined
to be identified because the terms haven’t been disclosed.  Bond transactions in the six-member Gulf Cooperation
Council are recovering after concern Dubai World, the state-
owned holding company, would default on $24.9 billion in debt
raised loan costs for businesses, deterring borrowing. Sabic
Capital, a unit of Saudi Basic, in May delayed a bond sale
because of unfavorable spreads. Sabic Chief Executive Officer
Mohamed al-Mady said Oct. 17 there was an improvement in the
global debt markets.  The yield on Sabic’s 4.5 percent, five-year euro-
denominated bond maturing in November 2013 rose 3 basis points
to 2.617 percent on Oct. 22, according to prices on Bloomberg.
It reached a low for the year on Sept. 10 at 2.5 percent.  ‘Appetite’  “They are doing it because the market environment has
improved,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at NCB Capital,
said in a phone interview today.  "There is a lot of appetite
for Gulf debt.’’  Banks led by HSBC and Standard Chartered Plc advised on
$9.4 billion of Gulf bond sales in the third quarter, the most
since the last three months of 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ, the nation’s biggest
Shariah-compliant lender, sold $750 million of five-year debt on
Sept. 30, and received orders for $6 billion.  Sabic has $2.7 billion of debt maturing next year and $30
billion outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Fitch Ratings rated Sabic’s proposed guaranteed bonds an
expected A+, the fifth-best ranking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inal Ersan in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  