-- Savient's Auction Didn't Result in Sale, Company Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-10-25T20:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/savient-says-auction-process-did-not-result-in-a-sale-of-the-drug-company.html
Savient Pharmaceuticals Inc.  shares
fell the most in two years after the company said it failed to
find a buyer.  Savient fell 44 percent, or $9.63, to $12.07 at 4:02 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading . Before today, shares
climbed 59 percent in 2010 as investors anticipated U.S.
clearance of a gout drug and a potential sale.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Novartis AG both looked at
acquiring Savient and passed because of concern about price,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. The
board of directors will continue to “evaluate strategic
alternatives,” Savient said in a statement today.  Savient said in May that it would pursue a sale if it won
U.S. approval for its gout treatment Krystexxa, which came Sept.
14. Americans with chronic gout may pay tens of thousands of
dollars a year for a biologic treatment that works when other
drugs don’t. Savient will probably issue stock or convertible
bonds in order to finance selling the drug itself, said  Eric Schmidt , an analyst for Cowen & Co.  “I hope they focus on doing this on their own,” Schmidt
said in a telephone interview today. “They should start making
operational plans to launch the drug and grow up as a company.
That’s what they ought to do.”  Krystexxa, the first disease-modifying therapy for gout, a
type of arthritis, could be priced between $25,000 and $49,000 a
year per patient, said  Gene Mack , an analyst at Soleil
Securities, who owns shares of Savient in a personal account.
The therapy may bring in peak sales of $900 million worldwide
within five years of going on the market, Mack said.  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for Novartis in Basel,
Switzerland, and Jennifer Fron Mauer, a spokewoman for New York-
based Bristol-Myers, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 