-- Scrap Copper Discount in China Widens on Slowdown in Demand, Recyclers Say
-- B y   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-10-25T15:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/scrap-copper-discount-in-china-widens-on-slowdown-in-demand-recyclers-say.html
Scrap copper in China is selling for
30 cents a pound less than New York futures, about twice the
discount three months ago, because of weakening demand there,
according to Robert Stein, president of the non-ferrous division
of the  Bureau of International Recycling .  Demand in China, the world’s largest copper buyer, has
slowed because of monetary tightening and high prices, Stein
said in an interview in Brussels today. Copper futures in New
York have climbed about 20 percent in the past three months,
partly because the dollar declined in value against other
currencies, spurring investor demand.  Higher prices and higher interest rates mean “it takes
more money to play,” Stein said. Stein is also the vice
president of St. Louis-based recycler Alter Trading Corp.  Copper for delivery in December was at $3.874 a pound by
10:17 a.m. on the Comex in New York. The discount in China three
months ago was about 15 cents, Stein said.  Less demand from China meant some U.S. scrap copper was
redirected to Europe, Stein said. Demand from the automotive
industry globally has been “really good,” he said.  If the price in Shanghai rose in relation to London, demand
in China would probably pick up, according to David Klein, a
trader at Alter Trading. Copper in London has climbed 15 percent
this year, while the Shanghai price is up 7.6 percent.  Speculation that the Chinese government may revalue the
yuan has also curbed demand, said David Chiao, vice president at
Uni-All Group Ltd., a recycling company based in Atlanta. “When
the currency exchange rate has been settled, probably the
situation will become more stable and people will start
buying,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 