-- Serbia Takes Step on Path Toward EU Entrance, Faces War-Crimes Hurdles
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-10-25T13:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/serbia-takes-step-on-path-toward-eu-entrance-faces-war-crimes-hurdles.html
Serbia took a step toward joining
the  European Union , while it was warned that further progress
depends on arresting the remaining war-crimes suspects from the
1990s demise of Yugoslavia.  EU foreign ministers ordered a formal assessment of
Serbia’s eligibility, a process that may lead to the start of
entry talks by 2012. The Dutch government ruled out further
moves until Serbia captures former Bosnian Serb commander  Ratko Mladic , the accused mastermind of the 1995 Srebrenica massacre.  “We have to respond to some extent positively but we must
stress the fact that this doesn’t in any way alter the
international community’s, and particularly the European
Union’s, expectations calling for full cooperation with the
tribunal” hunting for war-crimes suspects, Belgian Foreign
Minister  Steven Vanackere , the chairman of today’s EU meeting,
told reporters in Luxembourg.  Serbia, with 7.5 million people, is both the largest ex-
Yugoslav republic and the slowest to embrace the EU. Today’s
decision rewards it for a thaw in relations with leaders of
Kosovo, the mostly ethnic Albanian province that declared
independence from Serbia in 2008. Serbia still refuses to
recognize the breakaway state.  ‘Unstoppable’  “Serbia’s path to Europe is unstoppable,” Defense
Minister  Dragan Sutanovac  told reporters in Belgrade today.  The Netherlands has taken the EU’s hardest line on Serbia,
stung by the failure of Dutch peacekeepers to prevent Mladic’s
forces from slaughtering 8,000 Bosnian Muslims at Srebrenica,
Europe’s worst atrocity since World War II.  The Dutch gave in today after the EU threatened to ram the
decision through by majority vote. The eligibility assessment
will be performed by the  European Commission , the bloc’s
Brussels-based executive agency. EU law guarantees the
Netherlands a veto over further enlargement steps.  At “each stage” in the entry process, Serbia will need to
win a unanimous endorsement by the EU’s 27 governments of its
“full cooperation” with  United Nations  war-crimes prosecutors,
the EU said in a  statement  today.  Mladic and  Goran Hadzic , who headed a breakaway Serb
faction in Croatia, are the two last fugitives sought by
Yugoslav war-crimes prosecutors in The Hague.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  