-- Shoprite Is Not for Sale, Chairman Says, Closing South African Entry Route
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-10-25T14:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/shoprite-isn-t-for-sale-says-loss-of-family-involvement-would-be-risky-.html
Shoprite Holdings Ltd.  Chairman
 Christo Wiese  said South Africa’s largest retailer by market
value isn’t for sale, shutting an avenue for retailers wanting
to follow Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s lead in entering the country.  “We have had approaches from people in the past, but we
are not sellers of our business,” Wiese said in an interview in
Cape Town today. “It’s a business that has a culture of family
involvement and I think it would be risky to disturb that.”  On Sept. 27,  Wal-Mart  offered to buy  Massmart Holdings
Ltd. , South Africa’s biggest food and general goods wholesaler,
in a transaction valued at 32 billion rand ($4.6 billion). The
bid sparked speculation that other South African store operators
may be acquired. Shoprite and Pick n Pay Stores Ltd., the
country’s second-largest grocery chain, could be targeted by
 Carrefour  SA or Tesco Plc,  Stephen Carrott , a Johannesburg-based
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a Sept. 29 report.  Shoprite stock fell 1.46 rand, or 1.4 percent, to 100.40
rand at 3:57 p.m. in Johannesburg trading.  Wiese and his family control about 18 percent of Cape Town-
based Shoprite’s stock and together with Chief Executive Officer
 Whitey Basson ’s family exercise voting control over the company.  “I’ve always had the view that if somebody offers me 100
cents in the rand, I’m not a seller,” Wiese said. “If he
offers me 200 or 300 cents in the rand, I start listening, but
how often does that happen? This is a huge business, employing
nearly 90,000 people. Why should we want to sell?”  Pick n Pay  Cape Town-based  Pick n Pay  is controlled by the Ackerman
family through their majority stake in holding company Pick n
Pay Holdings Ltd. Pick n Pay founder  Raymond Ackerman  said in
April 2007 he had rejected three buyout offers from private-
equity firms because he wanted to retain family control. On June
18, Chairman  Gareth Ackerman  told the company’s annual general
meeting that the family’s position remained unchanged.  “It’s pretty unlikely” that there will be another
international entrant into the South African retail market any
time soon, said  Warren Buys , a fund manager at Cape Town-based
Cadiz Holdings Ltd.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, intends using its
purchase of Johannesburg-based Massmart to enter other African
countries and offset a slowdown in growth in the U.S., where
same-store sales have fallen for five consecutive quarters.  Wal-Mart Competition  “Wal-Mart is a big gorilla and other multinationals will
certainly take note of the fact that they are fairly
conservative people and they are beginning to recognize the
potential in South Africa and Africa,” Wiese said. “I believe
that the growth in this market, southern Africa and Africa, in
the next decade will mean there will be plenty of room for
everybody. We certainly don’t feel threatened.”  Shoprite has yet to determine whether it will have to
change its strategy or lower prices to fend off competition from
Wal-Mart, CEO Basson said in a separate interview today.  “We would determine what happens to the world when Wal-
Mart enters,” he said. “They are a major player. They are very
good buyers of merchandise and they have all the capital in the
world. Prime locations in South Africa are taken up so I’m not
sure there will be millions of opportunities for big stores.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 