-- Singapore Takeover of ASX May Threaten Australian Interests, Hockey Says
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-10-25T23:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/singapore-s-asx-bid-poses-national-interest-test-opposition-s-hockey-says.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s  A$8.4
billion ($8.3 billion) bid for Australian rival  ASX Ltd.  raises
national interest concerns, opposition treasury spokesman Joe
 Hockey  said, becoming the second Australian lawmaker to question
the deal.  “It is of great concern, unless it can be proven otherwise,
that our major regional competitor is buying out our own stock
exchange,” Hockey told  Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio 
today. Asked whether there are national interest questions to be
answered, Hockey said: “Of course there are.”  Yesterday’s agreed takeover requires approval from
Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan . Independent member of
parliament  Bob Katter  yesterday called the proposed sale of the
country’s main stock exchange “lunacy on a grand scale.”  “The stock exchange itself would be acting in the best
interests of its shareholders, and I can understand that, but
it’s up to the treasurer of Australia to act in the best
interests of our nation,” Hockey said on ABC radio.  Magnus Bocker , chief executive officer of the Singapore
Exchange, and ASX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Elstone  said
yesterday in Sydney that they’re confident the deal will win
regulatory approval. The combination is in the national interest
of both countries, Elstone said during a media briefing.  If approved by regulatory authorities in Singapore and
Australia, the deal will create the world’s fifth-largest
exchange company by market value and will be the first Asian
cross-border merger of an exchange operator.  ASX  shares  today fell 3.4 percent to A$40.32 at 10:14 a.m.
in Sydney trading. The stock surged 19 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  