-- Singapore, China Lead Increase in Global Home Prices, Knight Frank Says
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-10-25T18:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/singapore-china-lead-increase-in-global-home-prices-knight-frank-says.html
Singapore  and  China  led the world in
home-price appreciation in the second quarter amid accelerating
economic growth in both countries, according to real estate
consultant Knight Frank LLP.  Home prices in Singapore gained 37 percent from a year
earlier, according to a statement today by London-based company.
In mainland China, based on the cities of Beijing and Shanghai,
prices rose 36.8 percent, Knight Frank said.  “Each quarter we are presented with further evidence that
the impact of the global recession on the world’s housing
markets is diminishing,”  Liam Bailey , head of residential
research at Knight Frank, said in the statement. “There is a
sense that the headline-grabbing, double-digit price changes
that almost became the norm in 2008 and 2009 are lessening in
scale and number.”  The government of Singapore in August restricted financing
and raised duties on some home sales to cool the market, and the
Chinese government is trying to damp prices by boosting interest
rates. The International Monetary Fund  estimates  that
Singapore’s economy may swell 15 percent this year. China’s
gross domestic product grew 10.3 percent in the second quarter.  Prices rose in 69 percent of the markets tracked by Knight
Frank this year through June, up from 19 percent a year earlier.
Home prices in the Asia-Pacific region increased 14 percent, the
most of any area, the company said.  Hong Kong prices rose 24.9 percent in the second quarter,
the third-biggest advance in the Knight Frank Global House Price
Index. Latvia was fourth with an 18.5 percent gain, and
Australia was fifth with an 18.4 percent increase.  U.S., Canada  Prices in the U.S. gained 4.2 percent and Canada home
prices rose 13.5 percent, according to Knight Frank.  The worst-performing country was Estonia, where prices
plunged 31.5 percent. Ireland had the second-biggest drop, at 17
percent.  “House prices in Ireland now stand at the same point they
did at the end of 2002 due principally to a significant overhang
of supply and lending constraints,” Bailey said. The rate of
decline in Ireland “appears to be slowing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 