-- Singapore's ASX Takeover Igniting Speculation in Malaysia
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 2010-10-26T06:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/singapore-asx-purchase-ignites-exchange-speculation-in-hong-kong-malaysia.html
The takeover of  ASX Ltd.  by
Singapore Exchange Ltd. has ignited merger-and-acquisition
speculation in other Asian markets.  Investors punished Singapore Exchange Ltd., driving its
stock down by the most in two years yesterday, for agreeing to
pay A$8.4 billion ($8.35 billion) for Australia’s main bourse.
 Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. , which manages Asia’s No. 3
stock market, yesterday climbed to the highest level since
January 2008 and Bursa Malaysia Bhd. jumped the most since March.
All three exchanges fell at least 1.3 percent today.  Rising competition from electronic venues and investor
demands to cut trading costs have driven at least $68 billion in
acquisitions among global exchanges since January 2007,
including NYSE Group Inc.’s purchase of Euronext NV and Nasdaq
Stock Market Inc.’s takeover of OMX AB, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Hong Kong and Malaysian bourses said
yesterday they would consider alliances.  “The proposed consolidation between ASX and SGX may draw
greater investor attention to Asia, and we would leverage on
this opportunity to promote our strengths,” Bursa Malaysia
Chief Executive Officer  Yusli Mohamed Yusoff  wrote in an e-mail.
“Any regional efforts by other players that will increase
interest of investors to the Asian markets will be looked upon
as an opportunity for other exchanges.”  Hong Kong  Hong Kong Exchanges, whose companies have a total market
value of $2.6 trillion and range from HSBC Holdings Plc to China
Mobile Ltd., jumped 4.9 percent to HK$181.90 on Oct. 25. Shares
of the bourse slipped 1.3 percent to HK$179.50 as of today’s
12:30 p.m. trading break in Hong Kong.  Hong Kong Exchanges signed information-sharing agreements
with the Hanoi Stock Exchange and the Korea Exchange this year.
The bourse has a market value of $25.3 billion and trades at 37
times estimated profit, the most expensive level since at least
September 2009.  “Although Hong Kong Exchanges has not identified any
significant synergistic opportunities, it is open to possible
cooperation,” spokesman  Henry Law  wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  Bursa Malaysia , which runs the second-largest stock market
in Southeast Asia after its neighbor Singapore, jumped 4.6
percent to 8.62 ringgit yesterday. The shares pared gains today,
losing 1.5 percent to 8.49 ringgit. The company has a market
value of $1.48 billion, or 33 times projected profit. It
oversees a $371.4 billion stock market that is home to Genting
Bhd., Asia’s third-biggest listed casino operator.  The Taiwan Stock Exchange will “cooperate with other
bourses in specific areas such as technical expertise,”  Michael Lin , a senior vice president, said by phone from Taipei
yesterday. The bourse is unlikely to seek overseas mergers in
the “near term,” he said.  Asia in Demand  “A further wave of M&A will happen over time, but it will
be a much slower pace,” said  Christopher Allen , a New York-
based analyst with Ticonderoga Securities LLC. “You look at all
the U.S.-based exchanges, they all want exposure to Asia. It’s a
fast-growing marketplace.”  Acquisitions often fail to boost value for owners. Shares
of 53 companies that made the biggest purchases in the last
mergers-and-acquisitions boom from 2005 to 2008 lagged behind
industry peers two years later, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg’s ranking group. NYSE shares have tumbled 62 percent
since March 2006 as it snapped up companies from Euronext to
American Stock Exchange and Archipelago Holdings Inc.  ‘Regulatory Hurdles’  Singapore Exchange offered cash and stock for ASX to create
a company that will fend off rising competition. The bid values
ASX at A$46.18 per share or A$8.09 billion, based on Singapore
Exchange’s closing stock price yesterday. That represents a
premium of 32 percent more than the last traded price of ASX on
Oct. 22. Both companies are confident they will win regulators’
approval, ASX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Elstone  said
yesterday.  Shares of ASX  surged  19 percent to A$41.75, closing below
the projected offer price, on Oct. 25. The stock tumbled today,
losing 7.4 percent to A$38.67 for the biggest slump since
February 2009. A possible hurdle could be a 15 percent ownership
limit of Australian companies by foreign governments, given that
Singapore owns a 23.5 percent, non-voting stake in its exchange,
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts wrote in a report dated Oct. 26.  “The issue for additional mergers in Asia is the
regulatory hurdles,”  Paul Zubulake , senior analyst at Boston-
based research firm Aite Group LLC, wrote in an e-mail. “Will
the countries internal regulators approve foreign ownership?”  Singapore Government Stake  The Singapore government’s stake may be reduced below the
15 percent limit under the terms of Singapore Exchange’s
existing offer, the analysts wrote.  The proposed takeover has triggered a backlash from
Australian lawmakers, throwing into doubt whether the deal will
win parliamentary approval. The Greens, whose votes Prime
Minister Julia Gillard needs to pass legislation, “will not be
facilitating or supporting this takeover,” leader Bob Brown
told reporters today in Canberra. Opposition treasury spokesman
Joe Hockey said the offer is “of great concern” and
independent lawmaker Bob Katter called the proposal “lunacy.”  Singapore Exchange  shares fell 6.2 percent, the most since
Oct. 24, 2008, to S$8.95 yesterday even as it predicted $30
million a year in savings from the deal. The stock lost 3.2
percent to S$8.66 today. The company’s spokeswoman Magdalyn Liew
didn’t return calls seeking comment on the stock’s decline.  ‘Richly Priced’  “We see SGX’s acquisition of ASX as being richly priced,”
 Srikanth Vadlamani , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in
a note dated Oct. 25. “The extent of cost savings implies to us
that the success of the deal hinges upon the combined entity
being able to realize material revenue synergies. However, we do
not see obvious revenue synergies.”  Singapore Exchange’s offer represents a 42 percent premium
for ASX, according to data compiled by Bloomberg tracking 20-day
average stock prices, more than twice the 21 percent average for
takeovers of publicly traded financial companies around the
world in the past year. It’s the third-highest premium among the
15 buyouts in the industry exceeding $1 billion.  The  Hong Kong Exchange  is the biggest in the world,
according to data on the 18 members of the FTSE/Mondo Visione
Exchanges Index compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s products
and China’s economy make the exchange an attractive business
partner, said  Thomas Caldwell , who invests in exchanges
worldwide as chairman of Toronto-based Caldwell Financial Ltd.  ‘Dream Exchange’  “Hong Kong is the dream exchange, because it’s got options,
it’s got cash markets -- it’s got what everybody wants to
participate in,” said Caldwell, who said he has a “minor”
holding of the company. The Singapore acquisition “has jogged
everybody that maybe the exchange consolidation phase may have a
bit more steam to it, and that could mean some action here.”  Speculation of more tie-ups in the region is rising as the
threat of competition increases. Chi-X Global Inc., an
electronic trading platform, plans to open in Australia in March.
The Singapore Mercantile Exchange, backed by the operator of the
largest commodity exchange in India, started business in the
city-state in August.  If Asian exchanges “can find opportunities to add value
for shareholders, then they have to consider these sorts of
things,” said  Gavin Parry , managing director of Parry
International Trading Ltd. in Hong Kong. “It’s going to be
about how exchanges reinvigorate themselves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Lynn Thomasson  in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  