-- SKS Microfinance Shares Drop to Their Lowest on Scrutiny of Lending Norms
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-10-25T15:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/sks-microfinance-drops-by-a-record-in-on-greater-scrutiny-on-lending-norms.html
SKS Microfinance Ltd. , India’s
biggest provider of small loans, fell to its lowest on investor
concern greater scrutiny of lending practices in its largest
market may curb earnings growth.  The  shares  dropped as much as 16 percent intraday, slipping
below the 985 rupee price at which the company sold stock in its
initial public offering. They fell 4.4 percent to 1,010.30
rupees, their lowest since listing on August 16, at the 3:30 p.m.
close of trading in Mumbai.  The High Court of Andhra Pradesh state, which accounts for
about 27 percent of SKS’s loans, said on Oct. 22 SKS must comply
with new government rules that say lenders can’t charge interest
exceeding the principal on loans and mustn’t coerce borrowers to
repay debt. SKS, based in the state’s capital of Hyderabad, said
in an Oct. 23 statement its loan charges and lending practices
already meet the state’s guidelines.  “Microfinance companies in India didn’t have these levels
of regulation earlier,”  D.K. Aggarwal , managing director and
chairman of SMC Wealth Management Services Ltd. in New Delhi,
said by telephone today. “The tussle in court could have a
significant impact on the working of microfinance companies.”  SKS charges a flat rate of 12.5 percent, and 26.7 percent
on a declining balance, the lender said in the statement to the
Mumbai stock exchanges.  ‘No Adverse Impact’  “Hence, the provision will not have any adverse impact on
our interest rate structure,” SKS said. The company has never
adopted policies such as penalizing field officers for a
shortfall in loan recoveries or deploying collection agents, or
any other practice that the state is seeking to curb, it said.  SE Investments Ltd., a microfinance lender based in New
Delhi, declined 5 percent today, compared with a 0.4 percent
rise in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s Bankex Index.  SE Investments has no operations in Andhra Pradesh. “The
stock is down because of the negative market perception towards
microfinance companies,” said Managing Director  Sunil Agarwal .  The Andhra Pradesh high court has deferred potential
arrests of field staff and managerial personnel at microfinance
lenders until the next hearing, according to the statement,
which didn’t provide a date for the hearing.  Atul Takle , an SKS spokesman in Hyderabad, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  