-- South Korea Economic Growth Slowed to 0.7% as Won Jumped
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-10-27T06:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/south-korea-s-economic-growth-likely-slowed-as-won-surge-endangers-exports.html
South Korea’s economy slowed in the
third quarter as export gains and global growth cooled,
signaling more room to pause interest-rate increases and paring
a recent surge in the nation’s currency.  Gross domestic product advanced 0.7 percent from the
previous three months, when it gained 1.4 percent, the central
bank said in Seoul today. That was less than the 0.8 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 10 economists.
From a year earlier, GDP rose 4.5 percent.  The won’s 7.2 percent third-quarter climb against the
dollar was Asia’s highest, adding to threats to exports from
elevated U.S. unemployment and European austerity. The currency
fell as much as 1.5 percent after today’s data, curbing an
advance that may damp accelerating inflation and give the Bank
of Korea more scope to slow increases in borrowing costs.  “The central bank faces a bigger dilemma between lower
growth and higher inflation,” said Oh Suk Tae, an economist at
SC First Bank Korea Ltd. in Seoul. “The economy could grow less
than 4 percent next year if it keeps slowing at the current
pace.” Policy makers are likely to keep the benchmark rate
unchanged next month, Oh said.  The won closed 1 percent lower at 1,128.24 per dollar as
of the 3 p.m. close in Seoul. The benchmark  Kospi  stock index
fell 0.5 percent to 1,909.54.  Capital Controls  Countries from Brazil to China and Japan have moved to limit
currency gains this year to protect their economies. South
Korea’s government is discussing several steps to control
capital flows, Vice Finance Minister  Yim Jong Yong  said this
month. It has already begun an audit of banks handling foreign-
currency derivatives to tackle speculation.  Measures to mitigate capital flows can be useful, and large
inflows pose risks such as excessive exchange-rate moves and
asset price bubbles, Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said
after today’s release.  Bond prices fell following the comments, with the yield on
the 3.75 percent bond due June 2013 rising three basis points to
3.31 percent and heading for its highest close since Oct. 6,
according to Korea Stock Exchange.  The won had climbed earlier in the week on speculation that
Group of 20 economies will adhere to their Oct. 23 pledge to
avoid “competitive devaluation” to boost trade gains. G-20
finance chiefs said markets should increasingly determine
exchange rates after meeting in South Korea last week and
seeking to calm fears of a trade war.  U.S. Easing  The won has appreciated because of expectations of a
second round of monetary easing by the U.S., central bank
governor  Kim Choong Soo  said on Oct. 18. South Korea needs to
wait to see the outcome of talks at the G-20 summit of leaders
next month before making a decision on capital controls, Kim
said today.  The U.S. and Europe have been pressuring emerging-market
nations to let their exchange rates appreciate to help rebalance
demand in the global economy.  South Korea’s goods export growth slowed to 1.9 percent
last quarter from 7 percent in the previous three months,
today’s data showed. Private consumption expanded by 1.3 percent,
the fastest pace in a year. Construction investment rose 1.5
percent, driven by infrastructure projects, after a 3.6 percent
decline in the second quarter, according to the report.  The economy will likely expand around 6 percent in 2010 and
domestic demand is increasingly boosting growth, Bank of Korea
Director General Kim Myung Kee told reporters after the release.
“As long as rival currencies gain along with the won, our
exports will not likely see big damage,” Kim said.  Contraction Unlikely  The economy is unlikely to contract in the fourth quarter,
the official said. The central bank’s previous 2010 growth
forecast from July was 5.9 percent.  Governor Kim and the policy board this month refrained from
adding to July’s quarter-point rate increase from a record-low 2
percent, the only advance this year. They joined counterparts
from Australia to Thailand in pausing interest-rate gains, even
as  consumer price  inflation accelerated to 3.6 percent in
September, nearing the central bank’s 4 percent ceiling.  “The central bank would want to raise rates to curb price
pressures, while the government wants to keep them on hold to
promote growth,” SC First Bank’s Oh said.  Exports account for about the half the economy and grew at
the slowest pace in 11 months in September. Waning growth in
shipments may hurt earnings and hiring at companies such as
 Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors,
flat screens and mobile phones. The unemployment rate reached
3.7 percent last month, climbing from a three-month low.  World Recovery  Governor Kim has said it will take some time to normalize
borrowing costs as the bank must be sure of the world recovery.
The economy will continue expanding on exports, though slowdowns
overseas pose risks, the central bank said after October’s rate
decision.  Today’s data come after an Oct. 14 report showed
Singapore’s economy contracted last quarter as the city-state’s
manufacturing eased. China’s economy grew 9.6 percent in the
third quarter, the least in a year, while U.S. unemployment has
been in its worst slump since the end of World War II.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  