-- Southridge Capital Sued by Connecticut Over $26 Million in Investor Fees
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-10-25T21:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/southridge-capital-sued-by-connecticut-over-26-million-in-investor-fees.html
Southridge Capital Management LLC
was sued by Connecticut over $26 million in fees charged
investors based on what state Attorney General  Richard Blumenthal  called false statements about the value of assets.  The  investment firm , based in Ridgefield, Connecticut, also
was sued today by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
and accused of defrauding investors in hedge funds.  Southridge overvalued assets of funds it managed through
false financial statements to increase its fees illegally,
Blumenthal said in a statement. The firm acted as general
partner of the funds, providing advice and strategy, Blumenthal
said today in a lawsuit in state court in Hartford filed on
behalf of Connecticut Banking Commissioner  Howard F. Pitkin .  “Through false financial statements and other violations
of the funds’ private placement memoranda, SCM charged excessive
fees to the funds’ investors,” according to the state’s
complaint, “based on misleading and fraudulent valuations of
the assets SCM managed on behalf of the funds and their
investors.”  The state Banking Department subpoenaed Southridge Capital
in 2007 to investigate its operation of five funds that it
advises and manages, according to the complaint.  The funds named in the suit are Sovereign Partners LP,
Southridge Partners LP, Dominion Capital Fund Ltd., Dominion
Investment Fund  Ltd. and Southshore Capital Fund Ltd.   Southridge and Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hicks , who
also was sued, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  Illiquid Investments  Beginning in late 2003,  Hicks  sought investors by telling
them that most of their money would be placed in liquid
investments, the SEC said in its lawsuit. By 2007, many
investors in these funds were having difficulty redeeming their
money because it was invested in illiquid securities, according
to the SEC’s suit.  Hicks, Southridge and Southridge Advisors LLC
“significantly overvalued” the hedge funds’ largest single
investment, accruing more than $1.8 million in undeserved
management fees, the SEC said in its complaint.  The Southridge firms and Hicks caused two hedge funds to
pay about $5 million of legal and administrative expenses
incurred by three other hedge funds, according to the SEC.  The agency is seeking disgorgement of illegal gains and
unspecified fines.  The state seeks penalties and restitution, as well as a
court order requiring the firm to honor redemption requests by
investors and prohibiting Hicks from engaging in investment-
related activities for 10 years.  The Connecticut case is Pitkin v. Southridge Capital
Management, Connecticut Superior Court (Hartford). The federal
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Southridge Capital
Management, U.S. District Court, 3:10-cv-01685, District of
Connecticut (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 