-- Spansion, Zynga, De Beers: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-10-25T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/spansion-zynga-stonehenge-de-beers-mcmannis-intellectual-property.html
Spansion Inc.  lost a patent-
infringement ruling in its efforts to block imports of devices
that contain  Samsung Electronics Co.  flash-memory chips.  Samsung didn’t violate Spansion patent rights, U.S.
International Trade Commission Judge Charles Bullock found,
according to an agency website  posting  Oct. 22. The decision is
subject to review by the full six-member commission.  A ruling in Spansion’s favor may have led to an order
banning products with Samsung chips, including Research In
Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry devices and Lenovo Group Ltd.
computers. Spansion claimed that Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung infringed its patent on flash memory, used to store
images and music on portable electronics, to “unjustly enrich
Samsung by many hundreds of millions of dollars.”  “We are disappointed in the judge’s ruling,” Michele
Landry, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based Spansion,
said in an e-mailed statement. “However, this is only a first
step in the decision process.”  “We will continue to fight any violations of our
technology patents,” she said. The company said it has four
other patent-infringement lawsuits filed against Samsung in
August at the ITC in Washington.  Samsung had no comment on the ruling, according to a
spokeswoman, Chris Goodhart.  Samsung, Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors, had agreed
in 2009 to pay Spansion $70 million to end the dispute. That
agreement was rejected by a U.S. judge who was presiding over
Spansion’s bankruptcy. Spansion, a former unit of Advanced Micro
Devices Inc., filed for Chapter 11 protection from creditors in
March 2009, and emerged from bankruptcy in May 2010.  Samsung has patent-infringement claims against Spansion at
the ITC, and a trial is scheduled to be held in December,
according to information on the ITC’s website.  The current case is In the Matter of Certain Flash Memory
Chips and Products Containing the Same, 337-664, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  Zynga Seeks U.S. Patent For Virtual Currency for Online Game  Zynga Game Network Inc., the company that created the
“Farmville” game for Facebook Inc.’s social network, is
seeking a patent on virtual currency to be used in a multiplayer
online game.  Application  20100227675 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Sept. 9, covers a method of
receiving, at a server, a purchase order for virtual currency
from a player, and crediting the player’s account with the
virtual currency.  According to the application, the virtual currency can only
be used within the context of the game. The virtual currency can
buy virtual objects within the game. This technology also covers
virtual chips to be used in an online gambling game.  San Francisco-based Zynga filed the application in March
with the assistance of  Baker Botts LLP  of Dallas.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Photographer’s Suit Against Harcourt, Donnelley Moved to Chicago  A copyright infringement lawsuit filed against  Vivendi ’s
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Co. and  R.R. Donnelley &
Sons Co.  by a Chicago-based travel photographer was transferred
to a federal court in Chicago.  Robert Frerck claims Houghton Mifflin infringed copyrights
to photos he licensed to the book publisher by exceeding the
terms of the license. He said he wasn’t compensated for the
unauthorized use of these photos. Co-defendant Donnelley is
accused of infringing because it printed the Houghton Mifflin
books, according to the complaint.  The complaint was initially filed in federal court in
Pennsylvania and was transferred on Oct. 22, according to court
records.  The defendants argued in an Aug. 24 filing seeking
dismissal of the complaint that Frerck didn’t state a case. They
said he failed to assert that the copyright was registered for
some of the photos he said were infringed.  The court hasn’t yet ruled on the dismissal request, or on
Frerck’s Sept. 22 filing asking that Houghton and Donnelley be
barred from publishing books containing the disputed photos.  The case is Frerck v. Houghton Miffling Harcourt Publishing
Co., 1:10-cv-06897, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  Stonehenge Guardian Says It Must be Paid for Commercial Photos  The Historic Building and Monuments Commission for England,
which operates as  English Heritage , issued a  statement  Oct. 22
after it was hit with a storm of protest from amateur
photographers following a warning it gave the PhotoLibra open-
access photo stock agency.  English Heritage, which has the responsibility for more
than 400 British sites of historical and archeological interest,
sent  PhotoLibra  an e-mail saying that no images of Stonehenge
could be used for commercial interest without permission.
 Stonehenge  is a 5,000-year-old ring of standing stones in
Wiltshire, in the U.K.  PhotoLibra, which is based in Wales, responded in a  blog
posting , listing four stock agencies that sell more than 500
images apiece of Stonehenge on a royalty-free, unrestricted use
basis. “If anyone buys a royalty free image from one of these
suppliers, then he’ll be using as, where and when he likes,
without asking English Heritage’s permission. How will they stop
that?”  PhotoLibra also listed for five other stock agencies that
sell rights-managed images for a specific time-limited usage.
Each of the listed agencies -- including Hellman & Friedman’s
Getty Images and Corbis Corp. -- had inventories of more than
100 Stonehenge images apiece.  “Has every picture library with images of Stonehenge
received this e-mail?” PhotoLibra asked in the blog posting.
“If we really are breaking the law by selling images of
Stonehenge to be used for any commercial interest, then of
course we will cease and desist immediately.”  In its Oct. 22 statement, English Heritage said that while
it has “no problem with photographers sharing images of
Stonehenge on Flickr and similar not-for-profit image
websites,” it has a different stance with commercial
photographers.  “If a commercial photographer enters the land without our
care with the intention of taking a photograph of the monument
for financial gain, we ask that they pay a fee and abide by
certain conditions,” English Heritage said in the statement.  “We regret the confusion caused by a recent e-mail sent to
a picture library,” the organization said in the statement.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Fakes Seized, Sellers Charged at North Carolina State Fair  More than $80,000 worth of fake merchandise for sale at the
North Carolina State Fair was discovered and seized by law
enforcement officials, the Triangle Business Journal  reported .  Items seized included plaques and other items featuring
Disney characters and professional sports team logos, the
business journal reported.  At a second sales booth at the fair, fake designer handbags
were found and seized, according to the business journal.  Residents of Jensen Beach, Florida, and Gladstone,
Missouri, were charged with criminal trademark violations in
collection with the sale of the fake merchandise, the business
journal reported.  DeBeers ‘Forevermark’ Diamond Brand to be Extended to Jewelers  DeBeers  registered  the term “Forevermark Jewellers” as a
U.S. trademark, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and
trademark Office.  The mark, which was registered Oct. 12, is for jewelry and
also for retail stores, wholesale stores and wholesale
distributorships for jewelry.  The company already has several U.S. trademark
registrations for the term “Forevermark,” and also
“Forevermark Dimantaire.” The term “Diamantaire” means
“diamond cutter,” according to Patent Office documents.  De Beers began selling Forevermark-branded diamonds in Hong
Kong, China and Macau in 2008, the company  said .  According to a De Beers  statement , its Forevermark diamonds
are “natural, untreated and only come from sources that are
committed to the highest business, social and environmental
standards.” By the end of 2010, Forevermark diamonds will be
sold in Asia, Mexico and the Caribbean, the company said.  Forevermark is a separately managed unit, according to the
company statement, with the responsibility for “driving diamond
demand in key markets and maintaining consumer confidence in
diamonds.” Forevermark diamonds are inscribed with a unique
identification number, invisible to the naked eye, the company
said.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-DuPont Employee Gets 14-Month Sentence for Trade Secret Theft  A former  DuPont  chemist was sentenced to 14 months in
prison for trade secret thefts, the U.S. Department of Justice
said in a statement.  Hong Meng, 44, received the sentence from U.S. District
Judge Sue L. Robinson in connection with the misappropriation of
DuPont trade secrets related to organic light-emitting diodes.  According to the government statement, Meng took trade
secret information and chemical compounds whose structures had
not been publicly disclosed by DuPont. He transferred these to
China, and solicited Chinese government funding to commercialize
research he was allegedly conducting at Peking University that
was based on the stolen trade secrets.  The government said Meng also gave false information to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation when he was interviewed about
the removal of the chemical compound samples.  The case is U.S. A. v. Meng, 1:10-cr-00056-SLR, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware.  Winston-Salem Says Baseball Team’s Financial Data Stays Secret  Winston-Salem, North Carolina, city officials say they are
barred by trade secrets law from revealing financial figures for
the performance of the  Dash  minor league baseball team at BB&T
Ballpark, the Winston-Salem Journal  reported .  The team has claimed detailed financial information should
be protected under trade secret law, City Manager Lee Garrity
told the newspaper.  Mayor Allen Jones told the Journal he will talk to team
owners and hopes to find some information that can be released
“that won’t be damaging to the team.”  Members of the city’s Citizens Baseball Stadium Review
Committee were required to sign an agreement not to disclose
financial information designated as trade secrets, the newspaper
reported.  Drill Companies Identify Fracking Fluids to Wyoming Regulators  Oil drilling companies operating in Wyoming are, for the
most part, cooperating with new state regulations requiring them
to list, with their drilling applications, the chemical
ingredients of the drilling fluids they use, New West  reported .  The only potential problem is that some of the drilling
companies’ suppliers of fluid want to keep the ingredients a
trade secret, Tom Doll of the Wyoming Oil and Gas Conservation
Commission told New West.  The two major blenders of drilling fluids -- also known as
“fracking fluids” -- are applying for trade secret status,
Doll told New West. If granted, the status would require the
commission to be given the ingredients list, and hold it
confidentially.  The State Department of Environmental Quality will be given
the list of ingredients if it asks, New West reported.  IP Move  McMannis Faulkner Hires Retired Judge for IP Practice Group  McMannis Faulkner  hired Gregory Ward for its IP practice,
the San Jose, California-based firm said in a  statement .  Ward, who previously served as a judge in the Santa Clara
County Superior Court, is also a former federal prosecutor.
Before his appointment to the state court bench in 1990, he was
the attorney-in-charge of the San Jose branch of the U.S.
Attorney’s Office. There his focus was on high-tech intellectual
property and business disputes.  He has an undergraduate degree from the University of
California at Santa Cruz, and a law degree from Harvard
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 