-- Sprint Undercuts Apple IPad, Verizon With Samsung Tab
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-10-25T20:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/sprint-to-offer-samsung-s-tablet-for-a-third-less-than-verizon-wireless.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. , trying to
undercut rivals in the tablet market, will sell the  Samsung
Electronics Co.  Galaxy Tab for $200 less than it costs on
Verizon Wireless’s network and $229 less than the iPad.  Sprint will offer the Galaxy Tab starting Nov. 14 for
$399.99 with a two-year wireless-data contract.  Verizon Wireless 
is offering the Tab for $599.99, and Apple Inc. sells its
lowest-priced iPad that can connect to a mobile-phone network
for $629, though in both cases customers are not required to
sign up for data contracts.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, aims to
capitalize on the surging tablet market and gain an edge on
Verizon and  AT&T Inc.  The  Galaxy Tab  is one of the first tablet
devices to challenge Apple, which sold 4.19 million iPads last
quarter. AT&T is the exclusive carrier for the iPad -- as well
as Apple’s iPhone -- though Verizon plans to sell a version that
relies on a Wi-Fi connection to access the Net.  “This is designed to move market share in Sprint’s favor
and is a very compelling offer,”  William Vogel , an analyst with
Merlin Securities LLC in New York, said in an interview. He has
a “buy” rating on Sprint shares.  Sprint is offering the device, which uses  Google Inc. ’s
Android operating system, with data plans of $29.99 per month
for 2 gigabytes of data or $59.99 for 5 gigabytes of data,
according to a statement today. Verizon has a $20 plan for 1
gigabyte of data monthly and AT&T offers 2 gigabytes monthly for
$25 on the iPad.  Smaller Screen  The Tab features a 7-inch screen, compared with the iPad’s
9.7-inch display. It also has cameras on each side for video
calling and can work like a mobile phone.  Dell Inc. , Research In Motion Ltd. and Motorola Inc. have
all announced plans to release tablets, which are generally
lighter than laptops and rely on touch screens.  AT&T also has said it will sell Samsung’s Galaxy Tab,
though pricing details aren’t yet available, said  Mark Siegel , a
spokesman for the Dallas-based company. Reid Walker, a spokesman
for  Deutsche Telekom AG ’s T-Mobile USA, also declined to say how
much the company would charge for the device. T-Mobile USA is
the fourth-largest U.S. carrier.  Sprint, based in Overland Park, Kansas, slid 10 cents, or
2.1 percent, to $4.75 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading . The shares have added 30 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  