-- States Face Budget Holes If U.S. Capital-Gains Tax Doesn't Rise
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-10-25T14:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/states-face-budget-holes-if-u-s-capital-gains-tax-doesn-t-rise.html
California  and  New York , after
closing budget deficits of more than $27 billion this year, may
face $1.3 billion in combined new gaps if the federal capital-
gains tax rate doesn’t rise as scheduled, state documents show.  Both count on increased revenue --  $1.1 billion  in
California and as much as $225 million in New York -- as
investors rush to sell assets before the federal capital-gains
tax rate goes up to 20 percent, set for Jan. 1. Currently it’s
15 percent.  Nationwide, realized capital gains may jump $122 billion,
or 29 percent, to $540 billion this year,  according  to the
Congressional Budget Office. In 2003, Congress temporarily cut
the federal tax on profits from assets held at least a year.
Last month, lawmakers put off action on whether to extend the
expiring lower rate beyond December until after the Nov. 2
elections.  Surging asset sales ahead of the pending increase “could
fuel an inflow at the state level,” said  Scott Pattison ,
executive director of the  National Association of State Budget
Officers.  If the rate doesn’t change, then states may not see a
jump in related revenue, he said.  Enough Democrats joined Republicans in opposing increases
in capital gains and other federal taxes, as favored by
President Barack Obama, that in September the House of
Representatives delayed a vote until next month at the earliest.  Extension Likely  “I expect the Bush tax cuts will be extended,” said  Mark Bloomfield , president of the Washington-based  American Council
for Capital Formation , a group that advocates for lower capital
gains taxes. He said the economy would be hurt by an increase
and the public favors lower taxes.  It isn’t clear whether an extension would be permanent or
temporary, Bloomfield said. Either way, an additional 3.8
percent capital-gains tax is scheduled in 2013, under the
health-care law passed by Congress and signed by Obama earlier
this year, he said.  Seven states, including  Florida  and  Texas , don’t have an
income or capital-gains tax, while others, such as New York and
California, treat the profits as ordinary income.  In California, lawmakers closed a deficit of $19.1 billion
earlier this month with a budget that projects an extra $1.1
billion in revenue as investors accelerate their capital gains
and dividends. Revenue in 2011 is estimated to decline by the
same $1.1 billion, according to state budget  documents .  ‘Educated Guess’  “It’s obviously an educated guess,” because of pending
congressional action, said Phil Spilberg, the chief of financial
research in California’s Finance Department.  California, the state with the  biggest economy , projects
taxpayers’ capital gains will grow 40 percent this year.  New
York , the third-most-populous state,  forecasts  a 59 percent
increase.  Because of weak prices for equities and homes in the past
few years, U.S. income from capital gains in 2010 is projected
to be 42 percent less than the $924 billion peak of 2007.
Stocks, measured by the Russell 3000, are 5.3 percent higher
than the  average  of the past 10 years. Home prices are 5.8
percent lower than the 10-year  average .  New York expects $200 million to $225 million in additional
revenue from investors accelerating their sales to take
advantage of this year’s federal capital-gains rate, according
to Erik Kriss, a state Budget Division spokesman. The Division
of Budget projects a surge in realized capital gains, to  $57.7
billion  in 2010 from $36.4 billion in 2009.  Ready to Adjust  “It’s happened before when there was a tax-rate change,”
Kriss said. “If circumstances change, we would adjust our
forecast,” he said.  While state tax collections are rising in the U.S.,
according to the  Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government 
in Albany, revenue growth in California and New York might not
match projections, regardless of levies on capital gains.  New York’s tax revenue for the past six months trailed
forecasts by $529 million, according to an Oct. 19 report by
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli .  California may face a mid-year deficit of at least $5
billion, according to Moody’s Investors Service. The state may
not receive all the $5.4 billion of additional federal aid it
included in its budget, and its revenue assumptions, apart from
capital gains, may be too optimistic,  Emily Raimes , a Moody’s
analyst in New York, said in an Oct. 18 report.  California and New York both expect that 2010’s accelerated
capital gains will come at the expense of future years.  Longer-Term Gains  New York projects a $27 billion decline in 2011 from
investor profits, assuming the U.S. levy rises. “If federal
action results in complete or partial continuation of lower
rates for all or a portion of taxpayers, these gains will be
realized over the long run, not in 2010-11,” according to the
state’s spending  plan .  “A problem arises when legislators use the additional
funds to support spending and ignore the fact that it’s an
increase that won’t necessarily last,” said E.J. McMahon,
executive director of the  Empire Center for New York State
Policy . The Albany group advocates for lower state spending.  At least 31 states and Puerto Rico project fiscal 2012
deficits totaling $73.5 billion, according to an  April report  by
the Denver-based  National Conference of State Legislatures .  “States are looking at big budget problems all the way
into 2012 and probably 2013 as well,” said  Nick Johnson ,
director of the State Fiscal Project at the  Center on Budget &
Policy Priorities , a research and advocacy group in Washington.
As for revenue surges from taxpayers trying to avoid a higher
federal-tax rate in January, “any gain they get in fiscal year
2011 will be offset by a loss of revenue in the following
year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  