-- Voters May Boot Ohio Governor Trying to Fix Economy
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-10-25T19:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/suffering-voters-may-boot-democrat-ohio-governor-trying-to-retool-economy.html
Governor  Ted Strickland  sees the
future of  Ohio  reflected in 159,000 gleaming solar panels
nestled between fields and factories outside Upper Sandusky.  The 84-acre  solar farm  is the product of months of
negotiations between developers, utilities and state agencies.
The panels were made by  First Solar Inc.  in its Perrysburg plant
60 miles away, and 80 people spent seven months building the
facility. Now, it’s producing power for some 9,000 homes --and
employing three full-time maintenance people.  Democrat Strickland has sought to retool Ohio’s economy by
focusing on renewable energy, biotechnology and aerospace. That
future-oriented plan is colliding with the reality of this
election season: a 10 percent state  jobless rate  that tops the
national average. As a result, he’s struggling to fend off a
challenge by Republican  John Kasich  to win a second term.  “The solar plant isn’t putting food on the table for the
people that need it,” said Upper Sandusky Mayor  Scott Washburn ,
who has watched a dozen companies including auto-parts makers
dismiss almost 1,400 workers over the last six years in his town
of about 6,700 people in north-central Ohio. “We’re still left
with all these people without jobs.”  In surrounding  Wyandot County , the number of those on food
stamps grew by a third in 2009, according to Ohio’s Department
of Job and Family Services. Washburn, 37, an independent, said
his town collects about $1 million less in income taxes than
five years ago.  ‘Have Needs Now’  “A job 10 years down the line doesn’t mean anything,”
said Thomas Bennett, director of the county’s Department of Job
and Family Services. “We have needs now.”  Economists say there’s little that Strickland, Kasich or
other policy makers can do in the short term to stop the
bleeding. What will help Ohio, they say, are investments in
education to develop technology and attract scientific and
business talent.  “Politicians arrive on the scene and say they’ve got the
fix,” said  Guhan Venkatu , an economist at the  Federal Reserve
Bank of Cleveland . “The problem is you have these longer-term
trends that are overwhelming what policy makers can do.”  Manufacturing jobs in the state have declined every year
since 2000, with 400,000 lost, according to data  compiled by
Bloomberg . Overall employment  has fallen  each year since 2005.
New building permits  fell  more than 45 percent from January 2007
to August of this year. And the extra cost Ohio pays over top-
rated debt on general obligation bonds has almost doubled since
the beginning of 2010, according to the  data .  Paying the Price  While there are signs of recovery -- the unemployment rate
has dropped for six straight months -- Strickland, 69, may pay
the price for the economy’s weakness. Public opinion polls have
consistently shown  Kasich leading , though a poll commissioned by
the Ohio Newspaper Organization shows his lead at just 2
percentage points, 49 percent to 47 percent. The poll, conducted
Oct. 14-18, has a margin of error of 3.3 points.  “I didn’t cause the recession,” Strickland, who became
the first Democrat elected governor of Ohio since 1986, told a
crowd on Oct. 14 at a parts-manufacturing plant in Springfield.
“The recession was caused by mismanagement in Washington and
shenanigans on Wall Street.”  Strickland argues that he helped stem the bleeding by
reducing business taxes, erasing many state regulations, and
encouraging universities to develop new technologies in areas
like alternative energy and biotechnology.  Referendum on Obama  The race has become as much a referendum on his four years
in office as on  Barack Obama ’s presidency. On Oct. 17, Obama
made his 11th trip to Ohio as president to campaign for
Strickland in this battleground state, which has voted for  every
winning  presidential candidate since 1964.  “We have gone through the worst economic crisis since the
Great Depression, so when times are that difficult, elections
are going to be difficult,” Obama told donors in Cleveland.  The president will return to Cleveland on Oct. 31 to
campaign with Democrats in the state. Former president  Bill Clinton  will campaign with Strickland on Oct. 30.  Strickland, the son of a steelworker who grew up in such
hardship that he once said his family had to briefly stay in a
chicken coop after a fire damaged their house, says his
administration is laying the foundation for a new economy. He
points to projects like the 500 wind turbines approved in the
state and  legislation  that mandates 25 percent of energy sold in
Ohio by 2025 be from alternative sources.  “There will come a day when Ohio will be the undisputed
home of advanced energy,” the governor, who has served as a
Methodist minister and a prison psychologist, said in his state-
of-the-state  address  in January.  ‘Heartbeat of Ohio’  Kasich, 58, is promising a return to past prosperity,
pledging to restore the economy through industries such as coal
and to put the state on a more fiscally sustainable path.  “Small-town Ohio, rural Ohio is the heartbeat of Ohio,”
Kasich told an audience on Oct. 16 gathered in a barn in
Gallipolis, a town of 4,000.  Kasich blames Strickland for the loss of 400,000 jobs since
the start of his administration. He said his own plan to phase
out Ohio’s  income tax , which last year accounted for about 34
percent of state revenue, will attract companies and spur
growth.  The former nine-term congressman says he would cut spending
and replace the economic-promotion functions of the  Ohio
Department of Development  with a not-for-profit corporation
governed by business executives. As House Budget Committee
chairman in 1997, Kasich helped shape the  first balanced federal
budget  since, as he put it, “Man walked on the moon” in 1969.  Lehman Brothers Tie  He left the House, then became a Fox News commentator and
managing director at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., whose 2008
collapse triggered the financial crisis.  Kasich, the son of a mailman, takes a more critical view of
renewable energy, raising concerns that it will increase costs
for manufacturers and farmers.  “Alternative energy is important, but it’s a small
industry right now,” he said in an interview. “We need to
concentrate on the things we know how to do.”  Supporters of renewable energy projects like the one near
Upper Sandusky built by Tempe, Arizona-based  First Solar , the
world’s biggest solar-power company, say that while few jobs are
being created now, employment will eventually be generated up
and down the supply chain.  Big Tax Bill  Curt Judy, who manages the site for a subsidiary of  Public
Service Enterprise Group Inc. , a New Jersey company that owns
the site, said the farm also helps draw attention to the area
that may prompt other companies to invest.  That can’t come soon enough for some people in  Wyandot
County , where the jobless rate was 11 percent in August, state
figures show. The national average is 9.6 percent.  Bryan Pino, 28, opened Shotzy’s Bar and Grill in Upper
Sandusky last year using space that once housed a restaurant and
paint store. When he started, he employed 53 people. Now, he’s
down to about 20, which he blames on the roughly $28,000 he paid
in taxes in the last quarter and on a struggling customer base.  “There’s no way that you can get something out of
nothing,” he said.  In the nine years that Bennett of the Department of Job and
Family Services has lived in the town, he’s seen two carpet
stores, an appliance shop, a shoe store, a lumber company, a
restaurant and a grocery shut down.  In nearby Marion Centre shopping mall, half the 35 stores
are shuttered, filled with empty display cases and dust-bunnies.  “These places go,” he said, “and nothing replaces
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  