-- Sugar Surplus Probably Will Be Below Estimate on Damage, Kingsman Predicts
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-10-25T07:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/sugar-surplus-probably-will-be-below-estimate-on-damage-kingsman-predicts.html
The sugar market’s surplus probably
will be smaller than estimated because of the likelihood of crop
damage in producing countries, according to Kingsman SA.  The global surplus will likely be below the 3.52 million
metric tons predicted last month for the 2010-2011 crop year,
 Jonathan Kingsman , managing director of the Lausanne,
Switzerland-based broker and researcher, said Oct. 12 in a phone
interview. The latest estimate is a further reduction of his
June projection of 5.2 million tons.  “The world has failed to live up to its expectations for
increased production,” Kingsman said. “The world is very short
of stock, having had two years of deficit. There’s not much room
to maneuver. The market is pricing in the risk of poor weather
in a number of countries.”  Forecasts have been cut on concerns that drought and floods
damaged crops in producing countries such as Brazil, Russia,
Pakistan and Australia.  “The risk of an early end to the Brazilian crop appears to
be becoming reality,” Kingsman said. “There’s still a risk we
will have dry weather in January, February and March, which
could still negatively impact the crop.”  Raw sugar traded in New York has doubled since the end of
May, and white, or refined, sweetener has added 51 percent in
London. Both are about 7 percent below their 2010 peaks. Raw
sugar in February reached the highest price since Jan. 15, 1981,
and white sugar touched a two-decade high in January.  Indian Output  Raw sugar may “retest” 30 cents a pound if India, the
world’s second-largest producer, fails to meet expectations,
according to Kingsman. “Everyone is expecting a big increase in
production to 25 to 27 million tons this crop year, but whether
that’s going to be realized or not, it’s too early tell,” he
said.  Demand will remain “resilient” even as prices rebound to
near 2010 peaks, Kingsman predicted.  “It depends more on GDP growth than actual sugar prices,”
he said. “We are seeing very strong growth in India and
Southeast Asia, and as incomes rise we expect consumption to
grow. But obviously if the sugar’s not there, then people can’t
consume it, so that could be a constraint.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at   ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  