-- Citigroup Sees Rebound for Gulf Sukuk Sales Within a Year: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2010-10-25T12:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/sukuk-sales-in-gulf-will-recover-to-pre-crisis-levels-islamic-finance.html
Demand for Islamic bonds from the
Middle East will return to “pre-crisis” levels by the end of
the third quarter as companies restructure debt and higher
yields lure investors, according to  Citigroup Inc .  “The yields offered here are high, and investors globally
are willing to take the risk of investing here to get that
spread and return,”  Samad Sirohey , Dubai-based chief executive
officer of Citi Islamic Investment Bank E.C., said in a
telephone interview Oct. 20. “We should see pre-crisis levels
of regional and international interest in Islamic debt from the
Middle East by the third-quarter of 2011.”  The average yield on sukuk sold by Gulf Cooperation Council
issuers rose 20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, last week
to 5.8 percent, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar
Sukuk Index . Global sales of sukuk have declined 24 percent this
year to $12 billion after reaching a record $31 billion in 2007
before the collapse of credit markets drove investors away from
all but the safest government securities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shariah-compliant bond sales from the Persian Gulf are
rising after Dubai World, the state-owned holding company,
reached an agreement with 99 percent of its creditors in
September to change terms on $24.9 billion of debt. Economic
growth in the Middle East and North Africa will accelerate to 5
percent in 2011 from 3.8 percent this year and 1.1 percent in
2009, the International Monetary Fund said yesterday.  Bank Funds  Islamic notes sold by Persian Gulf issuers have returned
12.6 percent this year, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC
US Dollar Sukuk Index . Emerging-market sukuk returned 11.9
percent, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk
Index . Debt in developing markets gained 15.9 percent, JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  Companies in the Gulf have sold $1.25 billion of sukuk
since Dubai World’s announcement, bringing this year’s total to
$3.7 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Islamic
Development Bank, a Jeddah-based lender, sold $500 million of
five-year sukuk on Oct. 20 to yield 40 basis points more than
the benchmark midswap rate.  Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ , the nation’s
biggest Shariah-compliant lender, sold $750 million of similar-
maturity debt on Sept. 30, and received $6 billion of orders.  The Dubai Department of Finance is proposing launching a
multicurrency sukuk program, Malaysia’s Prime Minister  Najib Razak  said today in Kuala Lumpur, without providing details.  “We see a trend that supports the fact that liquidity in
the bank market, particularly the Islamic bank market, should
return,” said Sirohey, who has led the Manama, Bahrain-based
Islamic unit of Citigroup, since 2008. “The conclusion of the
Dubai World restructuring certainly helps investor sentiment.”  Preferring BRICs  Citigroup ranked 13th among 31 Islamic bond underwriters
this year, arranging $209 million of the notes, or 1.7 percent
of the total $12 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bank had a market share of 3.1 percent last year.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC , the United Arab Emirates’
second-biggest Shariah-compliant lender, started meeting
investors last week to sell bonds that comply with religious
principles. ADIB has a $5 billion sukuk trust certificate
program, according to a July 8 prospectus posted on the London
Stock Exchange’s website.  Global investors are buying debt sold by Brazil, Russia,
India and China rather than the Middle East, according to Royal
Capital PJSC, which is 44 percent owned by  United Gulf Bank BSC ,
an investment bank in Bahrain.  ‘Biggest Proof’  Defaults by companies in the Gulf have increased concern
about risks associated with Islamic bonds.  International
Investment Group KSCC , an Islamic financial company based in
Safat, Kuwait, said July 26 it was unable to pay $152.5 million
to bondholders who demanded immediate repayment after it
defaulted on a $200 million sukuk.  Dubai International Capital LLC, an investment company
owned by Dubai’s ruler, plans to restructure its business by the
end of the year, Chief Investment Officer  David Smoot  said Oct.
18.  “The resolution of the Dubai debt restructuring, the
potential consolidation of banks or stock exchanges in the
region, and the enforcement of stricter corporate governance can
help in encouraging these investors to invest locally,”  Ahmed Talhaoui , the head of portfolio management at Royal Capital,
said in an e-mailed response on Oct. 23.  Spreads Widen  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s dollar
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s widened 14.6 basis points this
month to 387. The yield on Dubai’s 6.396 percent sukuk maturing
in November 2014 fell 2 basis points to 6.36 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The difference between average yields for Gulf sukuk over
the London interbank offered rate narrowed 17 basis points to
464 on Oct. 22, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar
Sukuk Index , which tracks 19 corporate and sovereign bonds. The
spread on bonds in developing economies over U.S. Treasuries
narrowed nine basis points to 257 last week, according to the
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ Index.   “People are willing to buy more risky assets relative to,
let’s say, the Treasury bills in the U.S., which are yielding
practically nothing at the moment,”  Rami Sidani , the Dubai-
based head of Middle East and North Africa investment at
Schroder Investment Management Ltd., which oversees about $230
billion worldwide, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“The surge in regional bond issuances and the magnitude of the
oversubscription of the debt sales are the biggest proof of the
strong demand for such investment instruments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  