-- Swedish Immigrants Fear Gunman as Shootings Unresolved
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2010-10-25T13:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/sweden-shootings-leave-17-immigrants-injured-as-yearlong-spree-fans-fear.html
At least 17 immigrants have been
victims in the Swedish city of Malmoe in a yearlong shooting
spree that has revived memories of similar attacks two decades
ago and fanned fears of spiraling anti-immigrant sentiment.  Two women, aged 26 and 34, were shot at through the kitchen
window of a ground floor apartment in the neighborhood of
Kroksbaeck on Oct. 21, police spokesman Lars-Haakan Lindholm
said. A 28-year-old man was shot at a bus stop on Eriksfaelt’s
street on Oct. 19, following the  shooting  of a 47-year-old man
at another bus stop on Oct. 10. This weekend, shots were fired
at a tailor’s shop and through an apartment window.  “The people who are immigrants care a lot about what is
happening and are worried,” said Filiz, a hairdresser in Malmoe
who didn’t want her full name to be published. “They double-
check that they have locked their doors at night and make sure
all curtains have been drawn. It is frightening.”  Between 40 and 50 police are investigating the unexplained
shootings in the south-Swedish port city, which has a population
of about 300,000. Some of the incidents are connected, Lindholm
said and all appear to have targeted non-Swedes. A shooting in
October last year, in which a 20-year-old woman was killed and a
21-year-old man was injured in a car near Vaestra Skraevlinge
church, may also be related.  The shootings have brought back memories of the
“Laserman,” who killed one person and shot at 10 others in
Stockholm during six months in 1991 and 1992. All of the victims
had dark hair or skin color. John Ausonius, known as the
“Laserman” because he used a gun with a laser sight, was
sentenced to life in prison in 1994 after the biggest police
hunt since the 1986 murder of Prime Minister  Olof Palme .  No Reasonable Motives  “This spring we discovered that there were about 15
incidents where there were no reasonable motives, and the two
men that were shot at the bus stops strengthened that theory,”
Boerje Sjoeholm of the police in Malmoe said at a press
conference today. “There are strong indications that this is
the same culprit, but we still cannot just focus on that, but
the same weapon has been used at a number of these shootings.”  The police in Malmoe are investigating the shootings and
tips from the public and have also increased the number of
police officers patrolling the streets to try to instill a sense
of security and prevent more shootings from taking place.  Racism Fears  The incidents in Malmoe since last year have rekindled
fears about racism in a country where an anti-immigration party
won seats in parliament in last month’s election. There are
parallels between the “Laserman” and the Malmoe shootings,
said Jerzy Sarnecki, a professor in criminology at Stockholm
University.  “There are obvious similarities -- as this time it is also
someone shooting at people with an immigrant background,” said
Sarnecki. “If it’s the way it seems, that this person is
targeting people of an immigrant background, there are also
parallels to craziness that may have been triggered by the
current political climate, just like with the Laserman.”  During the banking crisis that started in 1990, which
lifted unemployment to levels close to 13 percent, the anti-
immigration New Democracy party became kingmakers in parliament.  Deep Recession  The Sweden Democrats won 5.7 percent of the vote in the
general election on Sept. 19 this year, throwing the government
of Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  into a minority. That
followed Sweden’s deepest recession since World War II last
year.  Malmoe police are investigating right-wing groups as one of
the possible leads in the attacks and have warned people who
don’t look like ethnic Swedes about being out at night. About 40
percent of the city’s population are immigrants, or have two
parents born outside of Sweden, Malmoe City estimates.  “There are a lot of people here who are very worried and
there is a lot of talk about what is happening,” Shahn, who
works at a video store in Malmoe and didn’t want her surname to
be published, said by telephone. “This could be some sick
youths that are doing the same thing that has happened before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  