-- U.K., Swiss to Discuss Tax on Offshore Bank Accounts
-- B y   W a r r e n   G i l e s
-- 2010-10-25T15:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/u-k-switzerland-will-discuss-withholding-tax-on-offshore-bank-accounts.html
The U.K. and Germany plan to
negotiate withholding taxes with Switzerland that will raise
revenue from offshore Swiss bank accounts while keeping client
identities secret.  The talks, starting early next year, will cover improved
access for Swiss financial products to the U.K. market and the
“regularization” of undeclared assets held by British citizens
in Swiss banks, according to the Swiss Finance Ministry in Bern.  Swiss banks proposed a withholding tax on the interest,
dividends, capital gains and investment income earned by foreign
citizens with offshore accounts to deflect attacks on the
country’s secrecy laws. While that would generate revenue for
treasuries in the U.K. and Germany, the tax may persuade some
cross-border European clients to repatriate their money.  “Everyone wants revenue and Germany has been taking the
lead in trying to stitch up a deal while the U.K. is just
desperate for money,” said  Peter Thorne , a banking analyst at
Helvea SA in London. “But over the next few years it’s probably
going to get harder for the Swiss to attract new assets from
Europeans as people compare the costs of banking locally.”  Swiss Finance Minister  Hans-Rudolf Merz  signed a commitment
to negotiate a tax deal after meeting U.K. Chancellor  George Osborne  in London. A similar agreement will be signed on Oct. 28
with Germany, the Swiss said.  ‘Breakthrough’  “This is a breakthrough, reason has prevailed,” said
 Franco Taisch , a professor of business law at the University of
Lucerne. “Switzerland and its counterparts have struck a
balance between taxpayers’ right to privacy and states’ right to
tax their citizens.”  Under the outline for negotiations, the two governments
agreed to find a solution for existing untaxed assets in Swiss
accounts, and improve market access in the U.K. with “measures
to decriminalize banks and their staff.” The withholding tax on
future investment income will be set “as close as possible to
local tax rates,” Merz told reporters in London.  To prevent clients avoiding the withholding tax,
Switzerland will offer U.K. authorities assistance in tracing
tax evaders based on the name of a client, “but not necessarily
the name of the bank,” the finance ministry said. The number of
requests will be “limited and must be well founded,” it said.  ‘Important Step’  U.K. nationals held 59.6 billion Swiss francs ($61.5
billion) in undeclared assets in Swiss banks, Thorne estimated
last year, with another 24.5 billion francs in declared assets.
Germans are the biggest cross-border customers of Swiss banks
with about 280.6 billion francs of assets, of which an estimated
69 percent is undeclared, according to Helvea.  “The fact that we’re announcing that two major countries
are ready to enter formal negotiations is an important step
toward a final solution,”  Patrick Odier , chairman of the Swiss
Bankers Association, which represents more than 300 banks
including UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, said in an
interview. “I wouldn’t be astonished if others were
interested.”  Only 16 percent of the 863 billion francs held in Swiss
banks by European nationals were declared, according to Helvea.  The U.K.’s HM Revenue and Customs said last December that
withholding taxes don’t meet Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development standards for transparency because
client identities remain secret.  Undeclared Assets  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in August
that a withholding tax would be part of an agreement with
Switzerland that would also cover tracking down tax evaders.  The Swiss wealth management industry was shaken on March
13, 2009, when the government agreed to work with countries
investigating tax evasion to avoid being blacklisted as a tax
haven by the OECD.  Switzerland has initialed or signed almost 30 tax treaties
over the past 19 months, including one with the U.K., to
implement international standards and help track down tax
evaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Warren Giles  in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  