-- U.K. Economy Likely Weakened as BOE Keeps `Fingers Crossed'
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-26T07:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/u-k-growth-probably-weakened-last-quarter-as-boe-keeps-fingers-crossed-.html
Britain’s economic growth probably
slowed in the three months through September to a third of the
pace of the previous quarter, keeping pressure on policy makers
to consider adding stimulus.  Gross domestic product rose 0.4 percent in the period,
compared with a 1.2 percent increase in the second quarter,
according to the median forecast in a  Bloomberg News survey  of
35 economists. The Office for National Statistics will publish
the data at 9:30 a.m. today in London.  The release is the first for the quarter from a Group of
Seven nation and comes less than a week after finance minister
 George Osborne  revealed the scope of spending cuts that will
lead to the loss of half a million jobs. Bank of England Deputy
Governor  Paul Tucker  said yesterday that the economy faces
“reasonably strong” headwinds and an “uneven” recovery.  “The economic outlook is looking very subdued,”  Simon Hayes , an economist at Barclays Capital in London and a former
Bank of England official, said in an interview. He predicts “we
will muddle through without having to extend quantitative easing
and I think a lot of Monetary Policy Committee members will have
their fingers crossed and hope that’s the case.”  Hayes, who forecasts the data will show growth of 0.4
percent, cited surveys of purchasing managers as evidence of
slowing expansion. Manufacturing growth weakened to a 10-month
low in September, according to a survey by Markit Economics and
the Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply. While service
industries growth unexpectedly accelerated, there were “wide
variations” in sentiment, the groups said.  Budget ‘Clarity’  The pound rose 0.3 percent against the dollar today and
traded at $1.5765 as of 8:50 a.m. in London. It has risen around
10 percent since falling to a 14-month low in May.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc Chairman  Stuart Rose  said
yesterday that Osborne’s announcement on Oct. 20 to pare back
spending by an average of 19 percent across government
departments has offered “clarity” to consumers. A double-dip
recession is unlikely, he said in an interview in Berlin.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said yesterday that
house prices have erased about two-thirds of their losses caused
by the financial crisis. Still, the budget plans may have
knocked confidence in the property market. A survey by Rightmove
Plc published Oct. 25 showed the number of Britons who expect a
house-price drop outnumbered those predicting an increase for
the first time since 2009.  Stimulus Debate  Former policy maker  Charles Goodhart  said Oct. 18 that
today’s GDP report will matter “quite a lot” as the Bank of
England decides whether to add stimulus. Minutes of the Oct. 7
decision, published last week, showed policy makers are starting
to lean toward further emergency bond purchases.  “Some of the members felt the likelihood that further
monetary stimulus would become necessary in order to meet the
inflation target in the medium term had increased in recent
months,” the minutes said.  Adam Posen  voted for more bond
purchases to aid the economy, while  Andrew Sentance  favored an
interest-rate increase to tame consumer prices. Inflation stayed
at 3.1 percent in September, exceeding the government’s 3
percent limit for a seventh month.  The bank left its benchmark interest  rate  on hold at a
record low of 0.5 percent this month and kept its asset-purchase
program at 200 billion pounds ($314 billion). Policy makers will
consider whether to buy more bonds at their decision on Nov. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  