-- U.S. Existing Home Sales Rose 10% to 4.53 Million Rate
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-25T20:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/u-s-existing-home-sales-exceed-estimates-rise-10-to-4-53-million-rate.html
Sales  of U.S. existing homes rose in
September by the most on record, a sign cheaper borrowing costs
are helping stabilize an industry that’s battling the headwinds
of foreclosures and joblessness.  Purchases increased 10 percent to a 4.53 million annual
rate from 4.12 million in August, the National Association of
Realtors said today in Washington. Economists forecast sales
would rise to a 4.3 million pace, according to the median
projection in a Bloomberg News survey. The median  price  fell 2.4
percent from a year earlier.  The lowest mortgage rates on record and cheaper homes are
enticing some buyers and providing a backstop for the industry
that precipitated the worst recession since the 1930s. At the
same time, the housing recovery will be slowed by unemployment
forecast to exceed 9 percent through 2011 and foreclosures that
add to the inventory of unsold homes.  “Even with this improvement, you’re still at a remarkably
depressed level,” said  Tom Porcelli , senior economist at RBC
Capital Markets Corp. in New York. “We’re going to continue to
muddle along here, given the supply-demand imbalance.”  Estimates of the 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from 4 million to 4.8 million. In July, sales ran at a 3.84
million annual rate, the weakest in a decade’s worth of record-
keeping by the Realtors group.  Stocks Higher  Stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a
fourth straight gain, as investors bet the Federal Reserve will
announce further action to stimulate the economy after it meets
next week. The S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent to 1,185.62 at the 4
p.m. close in New York. Treasury securities were little changed.  Compared with a year earlier, existing home sales were down
19 percent before adjusting for seasonal patterns.  Sales last month rose in all four regions, today’s report
showed, led by a 14.5 percent jump in the Midwest.  The  median price  decreased 2.4 percent to $171,700 last
month from September 2009.  Purchases of single-family homes rose 10 percent to a 3.97
million annual rate in September from a month earlier, the group
said.  The number of previously owned homes on the market fell 1.9
percent to 4.04 million. At the current sales pace, it would
take 10.7 months to sell those houses, compared with 12 months
in August.  Less Supply  Month’s supply would need to drop to eight to nine months
in order to stabilize home prices, according to the NAR.  Distressed sales, which include foreclosures and short-
sales in which the bank agrees to take less than the full amount
of the mortgage, accounted for 35 percent of total sales.  A government tax credit of as much as $8,000 gave housing a
temporary lift late last year and into 2010. Purchases plunged
in July, the month after buyers were originally required to
close deals in order to get the incentive. Sales of existing
houses are lower than the 4.83 million average pace set during
recession that ended in June 2009, and are well off the record
7.25 million peak reached in September 2005.  Foreclosure moratoria at  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and other
banks, along with government investigations into faulty
paperwork, threaten to further delay a recovery as houses slated
for repossession take longer to come to market.  Foreclosures are mounting as out-of-work Americans can’t
meet monthly payments while growing numbers of homeowners,
seeing their home prices slide to less than their mortgage
values, also default.  Examining Foreclosures  The U.S. central bank and other regulators are
“intensively” examining financial firms’ home-foreclosure
practices and expect preliminary findings next month, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today at a housing conference in
Arlington, Virginia.  “More than 20 percent of borrowers owe more than their
home is worth, and an additional 33 percent have equity cushions
of 10 percent or less, putting them at risk should house prices
decline much further,” Bernanke said. “With housing markets
still weak, high levels of mortgage distress may well persist
for some time to come.”  Unemployment forecast to exceed 9 percent through 2011 is
another reason why any recovery in housing may take years to
evolve, even with  30-year mortgage  rates near record lows.  Monetary Policy  Fed officials have signaled they may start another round of
unconventional monetary easing at their next meeting Nov. 3.
Most economists, including Nobel laureate  Joseph Stiglitz  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc .’s chief U.S. economist  Jan Hatzius , see
the measures having little effect on economic growth.  Housing markets were “weak,” with “sluggish or
declining” sales in many regions, the Fed said last week in its
survey of regional districts for September and early October.
“Respondents’ outlooks suggested sales and construction would
remain subdued through year-end,” restrained in part by lending
standards and “general economic uncertainty,” the Fed said.  Housing starts in September were 73 percent below the
three-decade peak of 2.27 million reached in January 2006.  “The homebuilding market remains quite challenging, but
there are a number of signs that we’re bouncing along the
bottom,”  Larry Sorsby , chief financial officer at Hovnanian
Enterprises Inc., the largest homebuilder in New Jersey, said
during an Oct. 7 conference call. “The first sign of recovery
is we’ve got to reach bottom, and it certainly appears that we
have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  