-- U.S. Approves California Solar-Thermal Plant, World's Largest
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-10-25T20:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/u-s-to-approve-california-solar-thermal-plant-world-s-largest.html
The world’s largest power plant
using heat from the sun to generate electricity, a planned $6
billion project in California, won approval from U.S. Interior
Secretary  Ken Salazar .  Solar Millennium LLC  of Oakland, California, agreed to fund
conservation measures protecting the desert tortoise and Mojave
fringe-toed lizard in return for permission to build the Blythe
Solar Power Project on public land, the Interior Department said
today. Blythe will use mirrors to concentrate the sun’s energy
rather than solar panels that convert light directly into
electricity.  “It’s one of those marquee projects that I’m very proud
of,” Salazar said in an interview before announcing the sixth
and largest solar project for U.S. land this month. “We’ll
demonstrate to the world that we can have large-scale solar
projects here in the United States and that they are very much a
real part of the energy portfolio for the country.”  The Natural Resources Defense Council supports the project,
most of which is near industrial and agricultural lands
appropriate for solar development, the New York-based group said
in a statement. NRDC has called on Salazar to develop national
guidelines for renewable-energy development on public lands.  “The Blythe project and others approved by Interior
demonstrate the need for the agency to improve the permitting
process,” Johanna Wald, NRDC’s senior attorney, said in a
statement. “By making future renewable-energy projects smart
from the start, we can better ensure their biggest impact is on
our energy supply, not other natural resources.”  ‘Open For Business’  Salazar approved on Oct. 5 projects in California proposed
by  Chevron Corp.  and  Tessera Solar , a unit of the closely held,
Dublin-based utility NTR Plc. Before today’s announcement, four
solar facilities on public lands in California and a project in
Nevada with capacity to generate a total of 1,800 megawatts of
electricity won approval this month. A megawatt is enough to
power about 800 average U.S. homes, according to the Energy
Department.  Blythe Solar will cover 7,025 acres on a site 216 miles
(348 kilometers) east of Los Angeles, producing as many as 1,000
megawatts, the Interior Department said. The facility will use
rows of parabolic mirrors to focus the sun’s energy onto tubes
that carry heated oil to a boiler, which sends steam to a
turbine.  “We’re open for business with respect to renewable energy
on public lands,” Salazar said in the Oct. 22 interview.  Under the 2009 economic stimulus package passed by
Congress, developers of renewable-energy projects can seek
grants for 30 percent of their costs in lieu of an investment
tax credit if construction begins by the end of this year.  November Construction  Construction may begin in November, meeting a deadline for
government grants, said Bill Keegan, a spokesman for the
project, who said it will be valued at $6 billion. Backers have
applied for loan guarantees from the Energy Department.  To mitigate potential environmental impacts, Solar
Millennium must provide funding for more than 8,000 acres of
habitat supporting the  desert tortoise , western burrowing owl,
 bighorn sheep  and  fringe-toed lizard . The California Energy
Commission, which regulates solar-thermal projects that generate
at least 50 megawatts, approved Blythe on Sept. 15.  “There has been extensive environmental review and
analysis of this project,” Salazar said today on a conference
call with reporters. “Indeed that’s why organizations such as
NRDC and a whole host of others are endorsing this project.”  Desert Tortoises  Four desert tortoises were found on the project site, Bob
Abbey, director of the Bureau of Land Management, the Interior
unit that manages public lands, said on today’s call. The
tortoises will be removed to help reduce environmental impacts.  Solar Millennium LLC is a unit of Solar Trust of America, a
venture of Erlangen, Germany-based  Solar Millennium AG,  a maker
of parabolic solar-power equipment, and Ferrostaal AG, an Essen,
Germany-based engineering company.  Southern California Edison Co., the utility owned by  Edison
International , has a 20-year agreement to buy all output from
the project, and will build a 230-kilovolt transmission line to
connect Blythe to a substation at the Colorado River, which
separates California and Arizona.  Blythe will create 1,066 jobs at the peak of construction
and 295 permanent jobs, the Interior Department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 