-- Potter to Retire as U.S. Postmaster General, Succeeded by Deputy
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/u-s-postmaster-general-john-potter-to-retire-deputy-donahoe-to-take-helm.html
U.S. Postmaster General  John Potter ,
who rose from mail clerk in the Bronx, New York, to lead the
Postal Service, said he will retire in December after 32 years
at the agency.  Potter, 55, who is seeking to raise mail rates and
eliminate Saturday delivery to return the agency to
profitability, announced his retirement yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Patrick R. Donahoe , the deputy postmaster general and
chief operating officer, will succeed Potter, the Washington-
based agency said in the statement.  The Postal Service had a $6 billion loss in the year that
ended Sept. 30 and projected a deficit of $238 billion through
2020 as fewer items are mailed. Potter has fought to retain as
much mail volume as possible after the recession led more people
to pay bills, order products and communicate with businesses
using the Internet.  Potter, who took over the agency in 2001 four months before
anthrax-laced letters sent through the mail killed two postal
workers, praised his employees.  “I fully appreciate their support in maintaining the
tradition of trust that dates back to Benjamin Franklin and the
founding of our nation,” Potter said in the statement. “It is
our people that define our organization and it is their
dedication and sense of purpose that drives our business.”  The Postal Service last week appealed to a federal court a
decision by the Postal Regulatory Commission denying a rate
increase that exceeds inflation.  During Potter’s tenure, Postal Service employment fell 26
percent to about 584,000, chiefly through attrition.  Donahoe, who started in 1975 as a clerk in Pittsburgh, has
been Potter’s deputy since 2005. As chief operations officer, he
is responsible for the agency’s 33,000 facilities and 219,000
vehicles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 