-- Treasury Shielding Citigroup With FOIA Deletions
-- B y   B o b   I v r y
-- 2010-10-25T22:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/u-s-treasury-shielding-of-citigroup-with-deletions-make-foia-meaningless.html
The late Bloomberg News reporter
Mark Pittman asked the  U.S. Treasury  in January 2009 to identify
$301 billion of securities owned by  Citigroup Inc.  that the
government had agreed to  guarantee . He made the request on the
grounds that taxpayers ought to know how their money was being
used.  More than 20 months later, after saying at least five times
that a response was imminent, Treasury officials responded with
560 pages of printed-out e-mails -- none of which Pittman
requested. They were so heavily redacted that most of what’s
left are everyday messages such as “Did you just try to call
me?” and “Monday will be a busy day!”  None of the documents answers Pittman’s request for
“records sufficient to show the names of the relevant
securities” or the dates and terms of the guarantees. Even so,
the U.S. government considers the collection of e-mails a
partial response to an official request under the federal
 Freedom of Information Act , or FOIA. The  Justice Department  in
July  cited  an increase in such responses as evidence that “more
information is being released” under the law.  President  Barack Obama  vowed to usher in a new era of open
government. On Jan. 21, 2009, the day after his inauguration and
a week before Pittman submitted his FOIA request, Obama  directed 
agencies to “adopt a presumption in favor of disclosure, in
order to renew their commitment to the principles embodied in
FOIA.”  Limits of Transparency  The saga of Pittman’s request shows that the promise of
transparency has its limits when it comes to the government’s
intervention in the financial industry, which at its peak
reached $12.8 trillion in commitments. From the 2008 Bear
Stearns Cos. rescue to the  Federal Reserve ’s policy of
quantitative easing in 2010, the Obama administration has
delayed disclosures and defended its right to secrecy in court,
said Tom Fitton, president of  Judicial Watch Inc. , which
describes itself as a conservative foundation.  “This is an unprecedented crisis for open government,”
said Fitton, whose Washington-based organization says it sued
the  Bush administration  48 times over disclosure issues. “When
it comes to the bank bailout, the Obama administration has made
a decision to err on the side of secrecy.”  The Justice Department, which oversees disclosure for the
executive branch, is “working specifically to encourage
agencies to be as transparent as possible and release as much as
possible,” said Melanie Ann Pustay, director of the
department’s Office of Information Policy. “We view our efforts
as an ongoing process.”  Openness Aids Recovery  More openness concerning the causes of the crisis and the
government’s response would help the economy recover, said  Joseph Mason , a finance professor at the Ourso College of
Business at  Louisiana State University  in  Baton Rouge .  “Investors who don’t have information are investors who
refuse to place funds in markets,” Mason said. “If we want
investment and economic growth to resume, we want to be
forthright about what happened. The longer we keep investors in
the dark, the longer that low economic growth will persist.”  The public has a particular interest in transparency
regarding the government’s unprecedented intervention in capital
markets because of its sheer size, said U.S. Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , the ranking Republican on the
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. He called the
Obama administration “woefully inadequate” at fulfilling its
promise of transparency.  Right to Know  “At a time when the role of government and more
specifically the Treasury Department, through bailouts and
stimulus, is responsible for administering trillions of dollars,
there couldn’t be a more important time to uphold the American
people’s right to know,” Issa said in an e-mail.  On Jan. 28, 2009, Pittman asked Treasury officials for
details related to guarantees the agency had provided on
securities held by Citigroup,  American International Group Inc .
and  Bank of America Corp . Among other things, he asked for any
contracts with outside firms hired to calculate the assets’
values.  In its response, Treasury said AIG didn’t participate in
its Asset Guarantee Program. Likewise, despite some
negotiations, the government and  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America “never entered into a definitive agreement,”
the response said.  Citigroup’s Largest Shareholder  That left Citigroup, in which the U.S. government was the
largest shareholder as of Oct. 1, according to regulatory
filings. Taxpayers’ stake, 12.4 percent, was three times the
second-largest investor’s.  In the 560 pages of e-mails exchanged in the last two
months of 2008 and January 2009, Treasury employees and their
colleagues at the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  discuss with
attorneys the department’s $20 billion investment in  New York- 
based Citigroup and the $301 billion in guarantees. Both
followed an initial $25 billion investment in Citigroup through
the Troubled Asset Relief Program in October 2008.  The Treasury Department also released 169 pages that
included a “Securities Purchase Agreement” between the bank,
the agency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. The document
had previously been disclosed in a Jan. 16, 2009, Citigroup
regulatory filing -- almost two weeks before Pittman sent his
request.  Exemptions Cited  The department held back 866 more pages, saying each was
exempt from disclosure on one of four grounds:  trade secrets ,
personnel rules and practices,  memos  subject to attorney-client
privilege and violations of personal privacy.  Treasury also cited the trade-secrets exemption in
responding to a separate, similar FOIA request by Bloomberg News
for details about Citigroup’s segregated bad assets. In that
response, 73 of 104 pages were completely blacked out except for
headings. Only six pages -- the cover, contents, a boilerplate
list of legal disclosures and a paragraph titled “FOIA Request
for Confidential Treatment” -- were free of redactions.  The department’s reply to Pittman’s request will count
statistically as a “partial response,” in government reports,
said Hugh Gilmore, Treasury’s FOIA public liaison. The response
“adhered to the rules, regulations, U.S. attorney general
 guidance  and relevant case law that govern FOIA,”  Steven Adamske , a Treasury spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Right of Appeal  People who aren’t satisfied with federal agencies’
responses under FOIA can appeal to them first, and then file
civil lawsuits in U.S. District Court to try to force more
disclosure.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, sued
the Fed over another Pittman FOIA request that sought the names
of banks that took emergency loans from the central bank. The
company has prevailed in U.S. District Court and on appeal. The
Fed, which has not released the information, has until tomorrow
to decide whether to ask the U.S. Supreme Court to consider the
case.  Like the Treasury Department, the central bank cited the
exemption for trade secrets, known as exemption 4, in
withholding details about borrowers. Its lawyers argued that
disclosing the banks’ identities would put the institutions at a
competitive disadvantage and make them less likely to seek
emergency loans in the future.  In an Aug. 24, 2009, ruling, Chief U.S. District Judge
Loretta A. Preska in  Manhattan  disagreed.  ‘An Inherent Risk’  “The risk of looking weak to competitors and shareholders
is an inherent risk of market participation; information tending
to increase that risk does not make the information privileged
or confidential,” Preska wrote. The Fed “would seemingly sweep
within the scope of Exemption 4 all information about borrowers
that anyone throughout the entire marketplace might consider to
be negative. The exemption cannot withstand such inflation.”  Pittman’s request for the Treasury Department records spent
months in limbo, according to discussions with the agency’s
employees. He had waited about 10 months for a response when he
died on Nov. 25, 2009. Shortly afterward, Michael Galleher, an
attorney working on contract for the Treasury Department, called
Bloomberg News, asking where he could send the responsive
documents. Attempts to return Galleher’s call failed; he
couldn’t be found at the agency.  A December call to Gilmore, the FOIA liaison, was returned
by Daneisha White, a FOIA officer, who suggested calling Michael
C. Bell, the FOIA manager in the  Office of Financial Stability .
Bell referred questions back to Gilmore.  Meanwhile, that month, Citigroup repaid $20 billion of its
bailout money and terminated the asset guarantees.  Searching for Records  Gilmore called back in January, saying Galleher had left
the agency at the end of 2009. He and his colleagues would
search for Pittman’s FOIA documents, he said, because they
weren’t sure where they were.  In April came a call from Galleher. He said that he had
returned to work at Treasury’s FOIA office, that he had the
relevant documents for Pittman’s request and that he would send
them that week.  “I need to clear the old requests,” he said.  The office where Gilmore works, which has the equivalent of
26 fulltime employees, handled 890 FOIA requests in fiscal 2009,
according to Treasury’s  annual FOIA report  to the attorney
general. It had 1,766 requests pending at year’s end.  Government bureaucracies often aren’t staffed enough to
respond adequately to requests for public records, said Lucy Dalglish, executive director of the Reporters Committee for
Freedom of the Press in Arlington, Virginia. In addition, she
said, they’re simply not motivated to disclose.  ‘Disappointed? Yeah’  “Agencies get in far more trouble for releasing
information than they do for not,” she said. “Am I
disappointed in the Obama administration? Yeah.”  In May, Galleher reported that he would have something to
send soon. He said the same thing in June, and then in July.
Part of the holdup was caused by the governmentwide practice of
giving private companies a chance to object to the disclosure of
requested documents, he said. Doing so ensures that companies
continue to cooperate with the executive branch by providing
records without fear they’ll be made public without review, said
Pustay of the Justice Department.  Neither Citigroup nor the Treasury Department would discuss
which redactions, if any, the bank sought on Pittman’s request.  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for the bank, declined to comment.  “We have no obligation to explain how much of Citi’s
recommendations we accepted and in what ways we decided to
differ,” Adamske, the Treasury spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Second-guessing the government’s response to the financial
crisis is not useful, said Wilbur Ross, the New York billionaire
who runs the private-equity firm WL Ross & Co.  “As far as I can tell, there is no evidence of any impure
motivation in connection with any of the big decisions,” Ross
said in an e-mail. “To me that is the issue, not whether you or
I would have come to the same conclusion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Ivry in New York at 
 bivry@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 