-- U.S. Winter-Wheat in Worse Shape Than Year Ago on Dry Weather, USDA Says
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-10-25T20:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/u-s-winter-wheat-in-worse-shape-than-year-ago-on-dry-weather-usda-says.html
The U.S. winter-wheat crop is in
worse condition than last year at this time as dry weather slows
plant development. The country’s corn and soybean harvests are
nearing completion.  About 47 percent of the  winter wheat  was rated good or
excellent as of yesterday, down from 62 percent a year ago, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture said today in its first report on
crop conditions. About 88 percent of the crop was planted in 18
states, mostly in the Midwest and Great Plains, compared with 80
percent a week earlier and 77 percent a year earlier.  A government  vegetative health index  shows increasing
stress on crops from Colorado to Ohio, said  Joel Widenor , the
director of agricultural services at the Commodity Weather Group
LLC. About a quarter of the area planted with hard-red winter-
wheat and possibly half of the soft-red wheat area in the
Midwest has been too dry for seed germination and crop
development, Widenor said.  “The biggest concern is the failure of the seeds to have
enough moisture” for plants to emerge from the soil, Widenor
said in by telephone from Bethesda, Maryland. “There is a drier
bias for most of the wheat belt” through May, he said.  An estimated 64 percent of the wheat had emerged as of
yesterday, compared with from 51 percent a week earlier and 64
percent, on average, the previous five years, the USDA said. The
crop will soon go dormant for the winter and be harvested
starting in May. The department will release its estimates of
winter-wheat planted acreage in January.  Warm, dry weather last week accelerated collection of corn
and soybeans, the two biggest U.S. crops.  About 83 percent of the  corn crop  was harvested as of
yesterday, up from 68 percent a week earlier and the previous
five-year average of 49 percent, the agency said. About 91
percent of the  soybeans  were collected, up from 83 percent a
week earlier and the average for the prior five years of 72
percent.  Corn production will total 12.664 billion bushels, the USDA
said on Oct. 8, down 3.8 percent from a September estimate and
less than last year’s record 13.11 billion. The soybean crop was
projected at a record 3.408 billion bushels, compared with 3.483
billion forecast in September and 3.359 billion gathered last
year.  The  cotton  harvest was 53 percent completed, up from 41
percent a week earlier and the previous five-year average of 36
percent, the USDA said. Yields in the U.S., the world’s biggest
exporter, will average 841 pounds per acre, up 8.2 percent from
2009, the USDA said earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth in Chicago at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 