-- U.S. Banks Face Pressure to Fix Mortgage-Foreclosure Practices: Timeline
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-10-25T14:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/u-s-banks-facing-pressure-to-fix-foreclosure-processing-claims-timeline.html
U.S. banks including  Bank of
America Corp.  and  Ally Financial Inc.  are facing pressure to
address home-foreclosure practices as Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank and other regulators are
“intensively” examining financial companies’ procedures.  “We are looking intensively at the firms’ policies,
procedures, and internal controls related to foreclosures and
seeking to determine whether systematic weaknesses are leading
to improper foreclosures,” Bernanke said today at a housing
conference in Arlington, Virginia.  Attorneys general in all 50 states are jointly
investigating foreclosure methods, including the use of so-
called robo-signers who didn’t check material they were signing.  The following is a timeline of key events in the turmoil
over foreclosures.  Sept. 17: Ally Financial’s GMAC Mortgage unit tells brokers and
agents to halt evictions tied to foreclosures on homeowners in
23 states, according to a document.  Sept. 24: GMAC Mortgage tells  Freddie Mac , the government-
supported mortgage-financing firm, that foreclosures by the auto
and home lender might have been faulty weeks before halting its
own evictions, according to two people briefed on the matter.  Sept. 29:  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the third-largest U.S. mortgage
servicer, says it asked judges to postpone rulings in pending
foreclosure cases while the bank reviews and possibly resubmits
statements.  Oct. 1: Bank of America becomes the latest firm to delay
foreclosures. The banks says it will investigate all affidavits
in cases that haven’t yet gone to judgment in the 23 states
where courts have jurisdiction over home seizures.  Oct. 4:  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. , the Pittsburgh-based
bank, halts sales of foreclosed homes to review documents in its
mortgage servicing procedures, according to a memo the bank sent
to lawyers handling the lender’s foreclosures.  Oct. 5:  Wells Fargo & Co. , the biggest U.S. home lender, says it
will opt against joining other banks in delaying foreclosures as
it stands by statements made to courts.  Oct. 6: Ohio sues Ally Financial, claiming it used fraudulent
practices in foreclosing on home mortgages. The state says it
will seek penalties of as much as $25,000 for each violation.  Oct. 8: Litton Loan Servicing LP, a mortgage-servicing business
owned  by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , says it’s halting some
foreclosures to review how they’re handled.  Oct. 8: Bank of America extends a foreclosure freeze to all 50
states.  Oct. 12: Ally Financial hires legal and accounting firms to do
independent reviews of foreclosures across the entire U.S. As
many as 9 million U.S. mortgages in the foreclosure pipeline or
through the process may face challenges, Morgan Stanley says.  Oct. 12: President  Barack Obama  throws his support behind the
state attorneys general looking into home foreclosures while
rejecting a nationwide freeze on such seizures because of
potential “unintended consequences,” says a White House
spokesman.  Oct. 13: Attorneys general of all 50 states open a joint
investigation into home foreclosures.  Oct. 13: JPMorgan probably will pay an “incremental” sum to
settle foreclosure investigations and there’s almost “no
chance” the bank made mistakes in seizing homes, Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  tells reporters on a conference
call after posting quarterly results.  Oct. 15: “You could potentially be talking about hundreds of
billions of dollars in losses,”  James Ellman , president of San
Francisco-based hedge fund Seacliff Capital, says about the
principal reduction that may result from improper foreclosures.  Oct. 15:  MetLife Inc. , the insurer with more than 200 home-loan
offices in the U.S., affirms the validity of documents the
company used to seize homes after Moody’s Investors Service says
the insurer will temporarily postpone foreclosure sales and that
the firm’s foreclosure process had “irregularities.”  Oct. 15: Added costs caused by delays in foreclosures were
“grossly distorted,” says  Barbara Desoer , head of home lending
at Bank of America.  Oct. 15: Bank shares fall for the third day amid speculation
faulty mortgage documents may mean lenders will have to buy back
millions of dollars in loans from mortgage-bond investors who
successfully challenge the paperwork.  Oct. 18: Bank of America says it will resubmit foreclosure
affidavits in 102,000 cases in which judgment is pending.  Oct. 19:  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s Litton Loan Servicing LP
unit believes its foreclosure decisions were “warranted,”
Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar  says.  Oct. 20: Fannie Mae says it halted referrals to a Florida
foreclosure-processing law firm whose court filings to support
home seizures are being investigated by the state’s attorney
general. Citigroup Inc. said that it also had suspended
referrals to the Law Offices of David J. Stern PA.  Oct. 20: Housing and Urban Development Secretary  Shaun Donovan 
says federal regulators haven’t found evidence of “systemic
issues” in legal documents at the center of turmoil over home
foreclosure processing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 