-- U.S. Mortgage Modifications Slow as Fewer Borrowers Qualify, Treasury Says
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-10-25T21:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/u-s-mortgage-modifications-slow-as-fewer-borrowers-qualify-treasury-says.html
Permanent loan modifications through
a U.S. program to cut  foreclosures  rose at the slowest pace in a
year as fewer homeowners qualified and half of trial mortgage
plans were canceled, the Treasury Department said today.  An additional 27,840 delinquent borrowers qualified for
permanent alterations through the Treasury’s Home Affordable
Modification Program, bringing the total to 495,898. The 5.9
percent increase from August was the smallest gain since at
least September 2009. Of the 1.37 million trials started under
the program, 53 percent have been canceled, the department  said .  HAMP, a $50 billion program authorized by Congress in 2009,
was targeted to reach more than 3 million homeowners by paying
mortgage servicers a $1,000 fee to rewrite loan terms to reduce
monthly payments and $1,000 annually for as much as three years
as long as the borrower participates.  “With many unavoidable foreclosures still in the pipeline,
it’s clear that we have a hard road ahead,”  Raphael Bostic ,
assistant Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, said in a statement.  Lenders seized a record 102,134 properties in September,
RealtyTrac Inc., a real estate information service in Irvine,
California, reported Oct. 14. About 2.5 million homes have been
taken back since 2005, while 6.5 million more homes may soon
face repossession, Morgan Stanley said Oct. 12.  Failed to Qualify  The number of HAMP trial loan modifications seems to have
passed its peak and the pace of delinquent borrowers filing
applications probably will slow,  Diane Pendley , managing
director at Fitch Ratings in New York, said in a telephone
interview. That’s because many borrowers have already failed to
qualify and new applicants must document their qualifications
before starting a trial period, she said.  “The huge numbers of potentially qualifying borrowers the
program was designed to assist have, for the most part, been
worked through,” Pendley said.  Many homeowners who don’t qualify for HAMP modifications
turn to private programs for assistance, Pendley said.  Bank of
America Corp.,  the largest U.S. loan servicer, completed 16,500
loan modifications in September, 77 percent of which were
through proprietary programs outside HAMP, the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank said in a statement today.  “Unfortunately, with the slow economic recovery and
continued high rates of unemployment and underemployment, some
customers are having difficulty sustaining even reduced
payments,” Rebecca Mairone, default servicing executive for
Bank of America Home Loans, said in the statement.  Wells Fargo  At Wells Fargo & Co, 89 percent of 556,868 trial and
permanent loan modifications were non-HAMP, the San Francisco-
based lender said today.  Permanent loan modifications under HAMP reduced monthly
housing payments by a median $520.68, the Treasury Department
report said. Homeowners in the program spent 63 percent of their
monthly gross income on debt payments after the modifications,
down from 80 percent before the reductions.  Through August, 5.3 percent of homeowners who weren’t
accepted for HAMP trial modifications were in the process of a
short sale, in which lenders allow a home to be sold for less
than is owed, or a deed in lieu of foreclosure, sometimes called
“cash for keys,” in which a borrower surrenders title without
a fight. Seventeen percent started or completed foreclosure,
according to the report.  Foreclosure Suspensions  The September data precedes the impact, if any, of
foreclosure suspensions by loan servicers such as Bank of
America, Ally Financial Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  after
allegations they used “robo-signers” to push through
repossessions without verifying documentation.  The irregularities prompted the Federal Reserve to examine
“foreclosure practices at a number of large financial
institutions,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today at a housing
conference in Arlington, Virginia. “We take violations of
proper procedures seriously.”  Bank of America and Ally were scheduled to resume
foreclosure processing today in several states, including
Florida. That state’s attorney general,  Bill McCollum , has
launched investigations of loan servicers and law firms amid
concerns that “people might be put out of their houses unfairly
and unjustly,” he has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 