-- U.S. 30-Year Bonds Lead Rally in Treasuries Before GDP Report, Fed Meeting
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-10-25T16:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/u-s-30-year-bonds-lead-treasury-rally-before-auctions-report-on-economy.html
     Oct. 25 (Bloomberg) --Treasury 30-year bonds rose for a
second day, leading a rally in Treasuries, amid speculation on
how much debt the Federal Reserve may buy to spur the economy
and before data that may show economic growth was below average.  Ten-year note  yields fell for the first time in four days,
shrinking the difference between 2- and 10-year yields before
the Fed meets next week. Treasuries gained even as data showed
sales of existing homes rose. The U.S. is scheduled to sell $10
billion of five-year inflation-linked securities today, the
first of four note auctions this week totaling $109 billion.  “Whenever we see a bit of a selloff in the Treasury market
it is getting met, and will continue to get met, by renewed
buying until we get clarification with regards to the size and
frequency of the Fed’s asset purchases,” said  Christian Cooper ,
senior rates trader in New York at Jefferies & Co., one of the
18 primary dealers that trade with the central bank.  Thirty-year bond  yields dropped five basis points to 3.88
percent at 12:17 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market
Data. The 3.875 percent security due in August 2040 climbed 7/8,
or $8.75 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 27/32. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Yields  on 10-year notes fell five basis points to 2.51
percent. Two-year notes yielded 0.35 percent, near the record
low of 0.327 percent set on Oct. 12.  The spread between yields on 2- and 10-year notes narrowed
to 2.15 percentage points. It reached 2.204 percent last week,
the widest since the five days ended Sept. 17.  G-20 Pledge  The dollar dropped to a 15-year low versus the yen after a
pledge by the Group of 20 nations Oct. 23 to avoid “competitive
devaluation” failed to dispel speculation the Fed will debase
the greenback by announcing more bond purchases in a strategy
called quantitative easing.  Treasuries earlier extended gains as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank and other regulators are
“intensively” examining financial firms’ home-foreclosure
practices and expect preliminary findings next month. The
central bank is “concerned about reported irregularities,” he
said today at a housing conference in Arlington, Virginia.  Sales of U.S. existing homes rose 10 percent last month,
more than forecast, the National Association of Realtors said
today in Washington. Purchases increased to a 4.53 million
annual rate from 4.12 million in August, the data showed.
Economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast sales would rise
to a 4.3 million pace.  GDP Report  Third-quarter gross domestic product was up 2 percent on an
annual basis, according to a Bloomberg News survey before the
Commerce Department reports the data Oct. 29. GDP rose 1.7
percent in the second quarter and 3.7 percent in the first.
Another report this week will show  new-home  purchases were close
to the record low, according to a separate survey.  The Fed may begin its bond purchases with $500 billion over
six months, according to a report from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
economists led by  Jan Hatzius  in New York. The company, a
primary dealer, said policy makers will announce the plan at
their next meeting Nov. 2-3.  “It’s worth being neutral on Treasuries into next week’s
close,”  William O’Donnell , managing director at primary dealer
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Stamford, Connecticut, and
the analyst  John Briggs  wrote in a research note to clients.
“It’s simply too hard to say how investor sentiment and
positioning will influence the reaction in bond prices to the
big news items next week.”  TIPS Auction  Five-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities due in
April 2015 yielded negative 0.58 percent before today’s sale of
the maturity. They yielded 0.55 percent at the last auction on
April 26. Investors  bid  for 3.15 times the amount at that sale,
versus an average of 2.38 for the past 10 auctions. TIPS pay
interest on a principal amount that moves with consumer prices.  Indirect  bidders , the category that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 23.1 percent of the notes, versus the
10-sale average of 32.6 percent.  The U.S. also will auction $35 billion in  two-year notes ,
an equal amount of  five-year securities  and $29 billion in
 seven-year debt  this week in sales that begin tomorrow.  The bond market is showing the Fed will succeed in sparking
inflation. Expectations for rising consumer prices have
increased faster in the U.S. than any other bond market this
month as central bankers made the case for monetary easing
through additional asset purchases.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and TIPS, a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life
of the securities, widened to 2.13 percentage points today from
this year’s low of 1.47 percentage points in August. The five-
year average is 2.1 percentage points.  Widest Since May  Treasury 30-year yields rose as much as half a percentage
point since September to 2.61 percentage points more than
similar-maturity inflation-indexed debt, the widest gap since
May and an indication of anticipated gains in consumer prices.  “I actually see the prospects of inflation returning to
about 2 percent over the course of the next year, gradually
rising,” Fed Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser 
said in Philadelphia on Oct. 22.  Rising sales at companies from  Boeing Co. , the world’s
largest aerospace company, to chipmaker  Intel Corp.  and railroad
 CSX Corp.  show businesses are growing even before the Fed acts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  