-- U.S. Stocks Climb as G-20 Meeting Fuels Fed Easing Speculation
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-25T20:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/u-s-stock-index-futures-climb-on-fed-outlook-citigroup-gains-in-germany.html
U.S.  stocks  rose, sending the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  to a fourth straight gain, after the
Group of 20 nations pledged to avoid “competitive devaluation”
of currencies and investors bet the Federal Reserve will
announce further bond purchases next week.  DuPont Co. , Kraft Foods Inc. and  Walt Disney Co.  climbed
more than 1.4 percent to lead gains in the largest U.S.
companies.  Citigroup Inc.  rallied 2.4 percent as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. added the shares to its “ conviction buy ” list.
 CommScope Inc.  surged 30 percent as a private equity firm
considers a takeover.  Office Depot Inc.  gained 3.5 percent after
saying earnings will beat estimates.  The S&P 500 advanced 0.2 percent to 1,185.62 at 4 p.m. in
New York, adding to three weeks of gains and climbing above its
highest close since May 3. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose
31.49 points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,164.05.  “Global central banks have set a floor under the market
and the risk of a double-dip recession is almost non-existent at
this point,” said  Oliver Pursche , co-manager of the GMG
Defensive Beta Fund and president of Suffern, New York-based
Gary Goldberg Financial Services, which manages $500 million.
“Traders are not going to fight the Fed after it has come out
and said it will support the market, they’re going to buy.”  Earnings Watch  Earnings-per share have topped analysts’ estimates at more
than 86 percent of S&P 500 companies that have posted third-
quarter results since Oct. 7, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. U.S. companies are poised to report their fourth
straight quarterly earnings increase as speculation that the Fed
will inject more money into the economy boosted investor
confidence and offset uncertainty about global currency markets.  The Dollar Index , which measures the currency against a
basket of six major peers, has slumped 7.3 percent since the end
of August while the S&P 500 has rallied 13 percent. The Fed said
on Oct. 20 that U.S. economic growth showed little sign of
accelerating last month, bolstering speculation that the central
bank will act to stimulate growth.  The dollar slid to a 15-year low of 80.41 yen today as G-20
finance chiefs meeting in South Korea vowed to avoid weakening
currencies to lift exports, damping speculation that governments
will buy the U.S. currency to deflate their own.  The G-20 meeting “has reaffirmed the status quo and going
forward we are likely to see the Federal Reserve, the Bank of
England and the Bank of Japan go on with quantitative easing,”
said  Kelvin Tay , the chief investment strategist for UBS AG
Wealth Management in Singapore. Recent stock gains have “been
largely driven by the fact that the U.S. dollar has actually
weakened quite substantially against all major currencies since
 Ben Bernanke ’s Jackson Hole speech.” Bernanke said on Aug. 27
in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, that he has the tools to prevent
another recession.  Housing Market  Stocks extended gains after  sales  of U.S. existing homes
jumped a record 10 percent in September, gaining for a second
month as the industry that precipitated the worst recession
since the 1930s overcomes mounting foreclosures, the National
Association of Realtors said in Washington.  DuPont, the third-largest U.S. chemical maker, rose the
most in the Dow, climbing 1.9 percent to $47.70 as materials
producers gained the most among 10 industries in the S&P 500.  Kraft rallied 1.8 percent to $32.47.  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  opted against writing down its holdings
in the world’s second-largest food company because of the
prospects its shares will recover, the billionaire’s company
told regulators.  Disney, Citigroup  Disney, the world’s biggest media company, added 1.4
percent to $35.46, leading consumer discretionary stocks to a
0.6 percent increase, the second-most out of 10 industry groups
in the S&P 500.  Citigroup gained 2.4 percent to $4.21. Goldman Sachs has a
price estimate of $5.50 on the shares, which is 34 percent
higher than their last closing price of $4.11 apiece.  CommScope  surged 30 percent to $30.16 after saying Carlyle
Group has held talks about acquiring all of the communications
equipment maker’s stock for $31.50 a share, or $3 billion.  Office Depot advanced 3.5 percent to $4.79. The second-
largest U.S. office-supply chain said preliminary earnings for
the quarter ended Sept. 25 were about 18 cents a share,
including a 15-cents-a-share tax benefit. The average estimate
of analysts was for a loss of 1 cent a share. Office Depot also
said  Steve Odland , chairman and chief executive officer since
2005, has resigned effective Nov. 1.  Neil R. Austrian  will serve
as interim chairman and CEO.  Banks Drop  Banks and diversified financial companies posted the
biggest  declines  among 24 groups in the S&P 500. Bernanke said
the central bank and other regulators are “intensively”
examining financial firms’ home-foreclosure practices and expect
preliminary findings next month.  “We have been concerned about reported irregularities in
foreclosure practices at a number of large financial
institutions,” the Fed chairman said today at a housing
conference in Arlington, Virginia.  RadioShack Corp.  fell the most in the S&P 500, slumping 9
percent to $20.74. The consumer-electronics retailer reported
third-quarter gross margin fell to 45.4 percent from a year
earlier, which Janney Montgomery Scott LLC analyst  David Strasser  said was disappointing.  Eastman Chemical Co.  had the second-biggest gain in the S&P
500, adding 5.1 percent to $82.59. The largest U.S. maker of
plastics for water bottles agreed to sell the PET business and
related assets and technology of its Performance Polymers
segment to DAK Americas LLC for $600 million.  “There’s a bias to the positive in the market,” said
 Richard Sichel , who oversees $1.4 billion as chief investment
officer at Philadelphia Trust Co. “The tone of the news, from
earnings to the feeling that we will see improvement in economic
numbers and that the Fed will do all it can. Add all of that
together and it makes investors feel more confident right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 