-- U.S., Japan Sign `Open Skies' Agreement to Liberalize Air Travel
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2010-10-25T10:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/u-s-japan-sign-open-skies-agreement-to-liberalize-air-travel.html
Japan and the U.S. signed an Open
Skies treaty erasing limits on flights and setting the stage
for greater collaboration between the nations’ airlines.  “I am optimistic that we will see an increase in the
numbers of passengers traveling between our countries,” U.S.
Ambassador  John Roos , after signing the treaty in Tokyo.  Japan Airlines Corp.  and  American Airlines  as well as
 All Nippon Airways Co.  and the airline units of  United
Continental Holdings Inc.  plan to collaborate on scheduling
and sales following the treaty that cuts restrictions on
routes flown by about 10 million travelers in the year ended
March 2009. Japan is liberalizing air travel to boost tourism
and as its busiest airports add landing slots.  “It opens up great opportunities for airlines on both
sides of the Pacific,”  Geoff Tudor , principal analyst for
Japan Aviation Management Research, said by phone today. “It
enhances each carrier’s network and in turn, that helps
customers who can make journeys through one carrier that
perhaps they couldn’t have made before.”  U.S. and Japanese carriers will offer scheduled flights
from Tokyo’s downtown Haneda airport to U.S. cities after the
opening of a new runway this month. Narita airport, which
also serves Tokyo, boosted slots by 10 percent to 220,000
earlier this year. The hub plans to increase capacity to
300,000 by the fiscal year starting April 2014.  Antitrust Immunity  Japan granted antitrust immunity for the JAL-American
and ANA-United Airlines-Continental Airlines tie-ups last
week. The U.S. earlier this month granted preliminary
immunity, which is subject to final approval after a 21-day
comment period. Immunity would allow airlines to jointly set
schedules and fares without being prosecuted for anti-
competitive practices.  Delta Air Lines Inc., which already has a hub in Tokyo,
missed out on signing up a Japanese partner after JAL
rejected its overtures earlier this year to instead stay in
American’s Oneworld alliance.  The planned tie-up will boost JAL’s sales by $100
million a year, American, a unit of Fort Worth, Texas-based
AMR predicts. All Nippon declined to forecast the revenue
boost from its tie-up with United.  The agreement is the first major overhaul of a 1952
aviation treaty between the U.S. and Japan since 1998.  The two countries signed a draft Open Skies treaty in
December.  Sumio Mabuchi , Japan’s transport minister, signed
the agreement today.  Restrictions wiped away under the accord include one
that lets only three U.S. carriers, Delta, United and  FedEx
Corp. , serve all Japanese markets with unlimited flights.  Hawaiian Holdings Inc. ,  United Parcel Service Inc.  and
 US Airways Group Inc.  are among other U.S. carriers that no
longer face flight limits under the Open Skies pact.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at
   ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kiyotaka Matsuda  in Tokyo at
   kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  