-- UBS Nears Wealth Management Turnaround as Outflows Taper Off
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2010-10-25T07:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/ubs-nearing-wealth-management-turnaround-as-client-redemptions-taper-off.html
UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
will probably report a fourth straight quarterly profit tomorrow
and the lowest wealth management redemptions since 2008.  The bank may post net income of 1.16 billion Swiss francs
($1.2 billion) for the third quarter, compared with a loss of
564 million francs a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Net
withdrawals by wealthy clients may have slowed to 2.6 billion
francs from 26.6 billion francs, the survey found.  Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel , who joined Zurich-
based UBS in February 2009 and returned the bank to  profit  in
less than a year, set a goal of stopping asset outflows this
year. Clients defected as UBS piled up record losses amid the
financial crisis and U.S. authorities accused it of helping
Americans evade taxes. Three of 10 analysts surveyed said UBS
may have already halted redemptions.  “This may be the quarter that it turns around, that’s the
feeling I get,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based
analyst at Mediobanca SpA who is forecasting 4.5 billion francs
of net new assets in the third quarter. “There’s been a massive
change in wealth management over the last 12 months. A whole
array of people has been put in place.”  A turnaround at the division may give UBS shares an
additional boost, analysts said. UBS gained 9.4 percent this
year in Swiss trading, compared with a 20 percent drop in Credit
Suisse Group AG, Switzerland’s No. 2 bank, and a 2.3 percent
decline in Bloomberg’s European  banking index .  Lower Outflows  A year ago, 31 percent of analysts following UBS advised
investors to buy the stock. That rose to 57 percent of  analysts 
in the past three months.  UBS clients have pulled a net 251.6 billion francs from the
company’s main wealth management  divisions  since March 2008,
leaving 1.61 trillion of assets under management at the end of
June, company reports show. It ranks second among wealth
managers behind Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America
Corp. , according to a July study by Scorpio Partnership of
London.  While UBS started attracting new funds in the first half of
this year, that wasn’t enough to counter money leaving as a
result of departing client advisers and pressure on banking
secrecy,  Juerg Zeltner , who heads wealth management outside the
Americas, said in July.  Outflows slowed to 8.1 billion francs in the second quarter
from 15.4 billion francs in the first three months of the year,
with positive contributions from Asia and the business with
ultra-high-net-worth individuals, who typically have at least
$50 million in invested assets.  ‘Extremely Positive’  “The trend in the previous quarters has been extremely
positive, so it’s just a question of time when flows turn
around,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets who is forecasting 3.3 billion francs of
inflows. “The difference won’t be that big in numbers, but it’s
huge psychologically.”  Gruebel, 66, in April hired  Lukas Gaehwiler , 45, from
Credit Suisse as CEO for Switzerland and co-head of the wealth
management and Swiss bank unit with Zeltner, 43. A year ago,
 Robert J. McCann , 52, a former Merrill Lynch & Co. executive,
joined UBS to run wealth management Americas.  In August, the bank hired  Jakob Stott , 55, previously with
JPMorgan Chase & Co., to run the wealth management business with
European clients that hold their assets where they reside.
 Christian Wiesendanger  was hired from Credit Suisse to head
wealth management in Switzerland and  Paul Raphael , who has
worked for Salomon Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse,
was named to run the business in emerging markets. All three
were hired to start at UBS on Oct. 1.  New Hires  The bank is hiring 30 to 40 private bankers a month,
Zeltner said in July, adding that he’s prepared to pay what it
takes to get “industry experts” and start seeing an increase
in the total number of advisers in the second half of this year.
The number of client advisers fell to 4,112 at the end of June
from more than 5,600 at the beginning of 2008.  In the Americas, McCann brought in at least five former
colleagues from Merrill Lynch to help him lead the unit. The
bank said in August it plans to start offering loans and banking
products to affluent clients.  “Wealth management adviser headcount should have bottomed
out,”  Matthew Clark  and  David Hyman , analysts at Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods, said in a note, citing it as one of the
reasons for their forecast for an end to net outflows. The
“U.S. tax dispute appears resolved” and “peers indicate solid
flow environment.”  Tax Row  Credit Suisse  last week reported net new money of 12.4
billion francs at its wealth management business. Chief
Executive  Brady Dougan , 51, said the bank saw inflows in all
regions.  UBS can also now put its dispute with the U.S. over tax
evasion by some of its clients in the past. The U.S. Justice
Department last week dismissed the case against the bank after
the expiration of the 18-month deferred prosecution agreement
UBS signed to avoid criminal charges. The Swiss parliament in
August approved the deal to pass on information on as many as
4,450 UBS accounts to the Internal Revenue Service.  UBS accumulated more than $57 billion of writedowns and
credit losses during the financial crisis after amassing
holdings in U.S. subprime mortgage-related debt that collapsed
in value, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Switzerland rescued
UBS in 2008, investing 6 billion francs to help the bank spin
off $39 billion of toxic assets into a Swiss central bank fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  