-- Porsche, UBS, Lloyds, RBS, PWS, Cuban in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-25T10:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/ubs-lloyds-rbs-pws-sands-china-greenberg-cuban-delphi-in-court-news.html
Porsche SE  was sued by Viking Global
Investors over claims the automaker’s attempted takeover of
Volkswagen AG was an illegal stock fraud scheme that cost the
hedge fund at least $390 million.  The complaint against  Porsche , filed Oct. 22 in federal
court in Manhattan, follows a similar lawsuit by U.S.-based
short sellers of VW stock who claim the sports-car maker
secretly cornered the market in VW shares in 2008 and later cost
them more than $1 billion in losses.  Viking took short positions on  VW shares  believing the
stock was overpriced, and relying on Porsche’s public assurances
in 2008 that it didn’t own or intend to acquire a controlling
interest in VW, according to the suit.  “Unbeknownst to Viking or the market, at least as early as
March 2008, Porsche was taking steps to corner the market in VW
shares as part of an effort to secretly take control of VW,”
the New York-based fund claims in the suit. “Through careful
market manipulation and false statements, Porsche convinced
investors to believe that the VW shares were overvalued,
inducing them to enter into short sales of VW shares.”  Because of Porsche’s “stranglehold” on the VW shares,
short sellers lost about $38.1 billion in less than one week and
Viking lost at least $390 million in two days, according to the
complaint.  Heiner von der Laden, a  Porsche  spokesman, wasn’t available
for comment after business hours Oct. 22.  Volkswagen , based in Wolfsburg, Germany, and Europe’s
largest carmaker, agreed to join with Porsche in August 2009
after the 911 sports-car maker’s debt tripled to more than 10
billion euros ($14 billion) following its failed bid to buy VW
by securing stock through options trading. VW has since bought
 49.9 percent  of Porsche’s operating unit for 3.9 billion euros,
setting the stage for a merger in 2011.  The case is Viking Global Equities LP v. Porsche Automobil
Holdings SE, 10-08073, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  N.Y. Attorney General Sues FedEx on Driver Status  New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo sued  FedEx Corp.  in
state court Oct. 22 saying the delivery company improperly
classifies ground delivery drivers as independent contractors
rather than employees.  In the lawsuit, filed in New York’s Supreme Court, Cuomo
said the company’s FedEx Home Delivery service classifying its
drivers as contractors rather than employees fails “to provide
its drivers the rights” afforded other employees and doesn’t
comply with the state’s labor laws.  The contractor model gives FedEx’s Ground unit a cost
advantage of as much as 30 percent over rival United Parcel
Service Inc., University of Pittsburgh business professor Marick
Masters has estimated.  “FedEx has the power to control, and does in fact control,
almost all aspects of its drivers’ work,” including “hours,
job duties, routes, and even clothing,” Cuomo said in the
filing. “The drivers are clearly perceived by the public to be
employees.”  Some FedEx drivers have filed private litigation. FedEx in
June won partial dismissal of a class-action lawsuit brought by
contract drivers who contend they are entitled to full benefits
because the company treats them as employees.  The company’s Home Delivery service has 701 contractors
that, combined, employ 2,500 workers, said Maury Lane, a FedEx
spokesman. The average contractor had revenue of $190,000, said
Lane, with the 10 largest billing an average of $2.6 million in
2009.  “It is disappointing that in the midst of his campaign for
governor, Attorney General Cuomo would choose to destroy that
many jobs in New York,” Lane said, commenting after reviewing a
copy of the filing.  “Any suggestion that the Attorney General’s office
handling of this case is improper is absurd,” John Milgrim, a
spokesman for Cuomo, said in an e-mailed statement. “This
office and a group of other states had been negotiating with
FedEx for months. The case was filed, as was a similar case by
Kentucky, when those discussions broke down,” Milgrim said.  The Indiana case is In re FedEx Ground Package System Inc.
Employment Practices Litigation, 3:05-md-00527, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Indiana (South Bend).  The New York case is New York State vs. FedEx Ground
Package System, Inc., Supreme Court of New York, County of New
York.  Sands Sued by Former China Chief for Contract Breach  Steven Jacobs, the former chief executive of  Sands China
Ltd. , sued Las Vegas Sands Corp. and its Hong Kong-listed casino
operator, claiming they breached his employment contract.  Jacobs, fired by Sands China’s board on July 23 for reasons
it didn’t disclose, filed his complaint in a court in Clark
County, Nevada, according to the court’s  website . The complaint
wasn’t available.  “We deny the allegations,” Jacqueline Wu, a spokeswoman
for Sands China, said Oct. 22.  Billionaire Sheldon Adelson is the chairman and chief
executive officer of Las Vegas Sands, the world’s largest casino
by market capitalization. Company spokesman Ron Reese said in
July that the dismissal “is not about any dispute between Mr.
Adelson and Mr. Jacobs.”  Jacobs was hired in 2009 as president of Las Vegas Sands’
Macau operations and was named chief executive in August 2009.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Adelphia Trust Reaches $175 Million Deal With Banks  Citigroup Inc. ,  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
and other banks agreed to pay $175 million to settle a lawsuit
with a legal trust pursuing claims on behalf of bankrupt
 Adelphia Communications Corp.   The accord, filed Oct. 18 in federal court in Manhattan,
resolves claims by the  Adelphia  trust that the banks aided and
abetted a breach of fiduciary duty by the family of the cable
television company’s founder, John Rigas, and aided and abetted
a fraud by Rigas and his son.  John Rigas, 85, is serving 12 years in prison, and his son
Timothy is serving 15 years after being convicted in 2004 of
looting Adelphia and lying about its finances. The company, once
the fifth-largest U.S. cable-TV provider, collapsed in 2002 and
its assets were sold to  Time Warner Inc.  and  Comcast Corp.   The deal “represents a fair and reasonable settlement”
and is “the product of substantial arm’s-length negotiation”
between the trust and the banks, according to a filing by
attorneys for the trust.  U.S. District Judge Lawrence McKenna has scheduled a Nov.
18 hearing in Manhattan to review the settlement. The agreement,
negotiated with the help of a mediator, averts a trial set for
Oct. 25.  The settlement won’t end litigation by the Adelphia trust
against Goldman Sachs & Co. and HSBC Bank USA.  The case is Adelphia Recovery Trust v. Bank of America NA,
05-cv-9050, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  UBS Tax-Fraud Charge Is Dropped by U.S. Prosecutors  The U.S. Justice Department dismissed Oct. 22 a landmark
criminal case against  UBS AG  that prompted the bank to admit it
helped Americans evade taxes.  Prosecutors said Zurich-based UBS, the largest Swiss bank,
complied with an 18-month agreement signed in February 2009 to
defer prosecution for conspiring to defraud the U.S. by helping
17,000 Americans hide accounts from the Internal Revenue
Service.  As part of the agreement, UBS paid $780 million, admitted
fostering tax evasion from 2000 to 2007, and handed over account
data on more than 250 U.S. clients, piercing the veil of Swiss
bank secrecy. UBS later turned over data on 4,450 more accounts.
Prosecutors said UBS also honored its pledge to end its cross-
border business and cooperate with the U.S.  “The United States agreed that if UBS AG fully complied
with all of its obligations,” the case would be dismissed,
Justice Department lawyers said in a motion in federal court in
Fort Lauderdale, Florida. “The United State believes that
dismissal is appropriate.”  The case is U.S. v. UBS AG, 09-cr-60033, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  Lloyds, RBS Win Appeal Over European Directories Plan  Lloyds Banking Group Plc , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
and Barclays Bank Plc won an appeal over part of the 2 billion-
euro ($2.78 billion) loan restructuring plan for  Macquarie Group
Ltd. ’s European Directories SA.  The Court of Appeal in London overturned Oct. 22 a lower-
court decision blocking the senior lenders, who hold 1.5 billion
euros of debt, from wiping out second-lien ranking creditors in
a bid to sell the directories company without any liabilities.
European Directories also supported the appeal.  The company, the banks and other senior lenders including
 Allied Irish Banks Plc  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. ’s
Alcentra, created the plan after London-based European
Directories, owned by the Australian financial-services firm
 Macquarie Group , missed loan payments earlier this year. The
turnaround involves placing the directories company in
bankruptcy and selling it to the lender group.  Junior investors AMP Capital Investors Ltd. and Hastings
Fund Management Ltd., both Australian money managers holding
17.7 million euros of second-lien debt, argued that the
mechanism used to implement the senior lenders’ plan would
breach loan agreements.  The three-judge panel declined to give the second-lien
creditors permission to appeal to the Supreme Court.  “We are obviously extremely disappointed at the Court of
Appeal’s judgment,” said Richard East, a lawyer at Quinn
Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP in London, who represents the
junior lenders. “The second-lien lenders continue to think that
the lower-court’s decision is correct, and will seek permission
for further appeal to the Supreme Court,”  Del Jones, a London-based spokesman for European
Directories, declined to comment.  The case is HHY Luxembourg SARL v. Barclays Bank, High
Court of Justice Chancery Division, HC10C02857.  For more, click here.  Ex-PWS Chief Pleads Guilty to Charges Over Costa Rican Bribes  Julian Messent, the former chief executive officer of PWS
International Ltd, pleaded guilty to paying more than $2 million
in bribes to win contracts in Costa Rica.  Messent admitted to two counts of corruption for funneling
money to at least three Costa Rican officials to retain
reinsurance contracts from a state-owned telecommunications and
electricity company.  “These were very large government contracts with high
premiums and large amounts of money being funneled back,” Hodge
Malek, a lawyer for the Serious Fraud Office, which prosecuted
the case, told a London court Oct. 22.  PWS, a London-based reinsurance company founded by Lord
Malcolm Pearson, was bought by THB Group in 2008. Pearson, a
member of the House of Lords and the former head of the U.K.
Independence Party, founded PWS in 1964.  Costa Rican prosecutors are investigating 10 people for
accepting bribes in the case, SFO spokeswoman Katie Winstanley
said.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Greenberg Loses Bid to Toss Cuomo Case on AIG Fraud  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the former chief executive
officer of  American International Group Inc. , lost a bid to
throw out a lawsuit by New York state accusing him of
structuring insurance transactions that misled investors.  State Supreme Court Justice Charles Ramos in Manhattan
denied Greenberg’s summary-judgment motion seeking to dismiss
Attorney General Andrew Cuomo’s lawsuit, according to an order
dated Oct. 21. The judge also denied a summary-judgment motion
by Howard Smith, AIG’s former chief financial officer.  Cuomo accused Greenberg and Smith of negotiating and
structuring two “sham” reinsurance deals that forced New York-
based AIG to restate its financial  statements  for the years 2001
through 2004 and resulted in the criminal indictments of a
former AIG executive and four former General Reinsurance Corp.
executives, according to the judge’s ruling.  In his order, Ramos granted Cuomo’s motion for summary
judgment on the issue of liability for one of the transactions.
The judge wrote that the amount of damages due would be resolved
at a separate hearing.  Lee Wolosky, an attorney for Greenberg, didn’t return a
message seeking comment.  The case is State of New York v. Greenberg, 401720-2010,
New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Cuban Offers to Hire Lawyers to Review SEC Documents  Mark Cuban, the billionaire owner of the Dallas Mavericks
who is accused by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission of
insider trading, offered to pay lawyers to help the agency speed
its review of documents in his case.  An attorney for Cuban, Stephen Best, told U.S. District
Judge Reggie Walton in Washington that he was seeking a creative
solution to moving the case along, noting the federal government
often hired contractors.  “I have never heard about the government becoming
indignant about accepting” assistance, Best told Walton at a
hearing Oct. 22.  Walton asked SEC attorneys to review whether bringing in
contract attorneys for the task would violate federal hiring
procedures or whether contractors would be allowed to review the
documents, some of which may be classified.  The judge last month said the SEC improperly withheld
documents that Cuban requested through the Freedom of
Information Act, and said the defendant should be granted
access. His lawyers complain that current schedules call for the
documents to be delivered in March 2012.  Melinda Hardy, an SEC attorney, said in court that Cuban’s
offer was unprecedented. She said the agency is concerned that
people with “deep pockets would come in and go to the front of
the line.”  The Cuban file is so voluminous that an attorney assigned
to review it would have to spend more than eight months,
assuming a pace of four pages a minute and eight-hour days
without breaks, the SEC lawyers said.  The SEC alleges that Cuban traded on confidential
information when he sold his stake in Mamma.com Inc., a Canadian
Internet search company, just before it announced a private
placement of shares.  The case is Cuban v. SEC, 09-cv-996, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington). The insider-trading case is
SEC v. Cuban, 09-10996, 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans) and SEC v. Cuban, 08-cv-2050,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Ex-Delphi Chief Battenberg Misled Investors, Jury Told  Former  Delphi Corp.  Chief Executive Officer J.T. Battenberg
III misled investors about the company’s financial condition, a
lawyer for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission told a
jury at the start of a trial.  The SEC sued Battenberg and three other ex-Delphi
executives in the trial in 2006, alleging they engaged in
“fraudulent accounting or disclosure schemes” before the auto-
parts supplier entered bankruptcy protection in 2005. The trial
began Oct. 22 before U.S. District Judge Avern Cohn in Detroit.  The defendants “had a responsibility to fairly and
accurately report the financial performance of the Delphi
Corp.,” said Jan Folena, a lawyer for the SEC. “While the
employees at Delphi were engineering auto parts, their
executives were engineering numbers.”  Delphi, once the largest U.S. auto-parts supplier, filed
for bankruptcy after failing to win wage cuts and financial aid
from its former parent, General Motors Co. It emerged from
bankruptcy last year.  The jury began hearing the SEC’s claims against Battenberg;
Paul Free, a former Delphi controller and chief accounting
officer; Milan Belans, a former director of capital planning and
pension analysis; and Catherine Rozanski, a former accounting
director.  The agency earlier settled cases against the company and
John Blahnik, a former treasurer.  The SEC claims Delphi artificially inflated  share prices  by
issuing misleading statements in the years before the
bankruptcy. Battenberg, Free and Belans were responsible for
false statements or omissions of material fact in Delphi’s 10-K
for 2000, its filing for the third quarter of 2000 and an 8-K on
May 31, 2001, the government says.  Lawyers for the defendants said Oct. 22 that there was no
attempt to mislead investors and their clients didn’t commit
fraud.  The case is SEC v. Battenberg, 2:06-cv-14891, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  For more, click here.  Ex-Deutsche Telekom Chief Says He Didn’t Order Spying  Former Deutsche Telekom AG chief executive officer Kai-Uwe
Ricke told a court that he didn’t know people at the company
used illegal methods when trying to identify a press-informant
in 2005.  Ricke was testifying at the Bonn trial of a former security
manager, Klaus Trzeschan, who is accused of taking part in
illegal corporate spying at the company. While Ricke asked the
company’s security unit to find out the perpetrator, the former
CEO said he didn’t know that phone records would later be
examined.  “I can rule out 100 percent that we discussed any illegal
methods,” Ricke told the court. “Had I learned about it, I
would have stepped in. I spent my whole career in
telecommunications and knew what that would have meant.”  The case centers on allegations that managers at Europe’s
largest phone company obtained phone records for journalists and
supervisory  board members  to search for the sources of news
leaks. Prosecutors searched offices of Deutsche Telekom and its
T-Mobile unit in May 2008 after the company filed a criminal
complaint over the issue.  Authorities also searched the homes of former Chairman
Klaus Zumwinkel and Ricke 10 months later. Bonn prosecutors in
June dropped their investigation of Ricke and Zumwinkel saying
they didn’t have evidence to prove the two knew about the phone-
record reviews at the time they took place. Ricke and Zumwinkel
have denied any wrongdoing.  After confidential information about Deutsche Telekom
appeared in the press in January 2005, Ricke asked the security
department to find out who had leaked it.  Ricke said Oct. 22 he hadn’t had a private conversation
about the press leaks with Trzeschan at the time and said he
first met him only a month later. In subsequent discussions over
the course of 2005, Trzeschan never mentioned illegal phone-
record reviews, said Ricke.  “I never thought about how security would do its work, I
wasn’t an expert,” said Ricke. “This was their core
competence.”  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Court Filings  RBS’s Suit over Liverpool Soccer Club Most Popular Docket  The  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  lawsuit that
successfully prevented the owners of the Liverpool soccer club
from proceeding with a Texas lawsuit that was blocking the
forced sale of the English soccer club was the most-read
litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system last week.  On Oct. 14, Justice Christopher Floyd ruled to prevent
Liverpool owners Tom Hicks and George Gillett from interfering
with the 300 million pound ($475 million) sale to the operators
of the Boston Red Sox baseball team.  The case is Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v. Hicks,
HC10C03206, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division.  For more, click here.  On the Docket  Terra Firma Will Call Citigroup Banker as Hostile Witness  The Citigroup Inc. banker accused of misleading Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd. founder Guy Hands about the 2007 auction
of  EMI Group Ltd.  will tell his story to a Manhattan federal
jury as early as today.  David Boies, the lead lawyer for Hands and London-based
Terra Firma, told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff Oct. 22 that he
will call the banker, David Wormsley, as a hostile witness in
the trial.  Hands claimed, in testimony over three days, that Wormsley
misled him about the 2007 auction of London-based  EMI Group
Ltd. , leading Terra Firma to overpay for the 113-year-old music
company. Wormsley’s lawyers have contradicted Hands’s account of
three crucial phone calls between them in May 2007, according to
court papers.  The calls, which took place the weekend before the auction,
are at the center of Terra Firma’s suit. Hands claims Wormsley,
his former friend and business associate, told him that Cerberus
Capital Management LP planned to submit a competing bid for EMI.
In fact, New York-based Cerberus had withdrawn from the bidding,
leaving Terra Firma without competition, according to court
filings.  “If it wasn’t for those phone calls, they wouldn’t have
been scrambling and they wouldn’t have put the bid in at that
price at that time,” said Werner Kranenburg, a London-based
lawyer observing the trial, summarizing Hands’s testimony.  Wormsley will have to persuade jurors “that he wasn’t
trying to convince his friend into rash actions over that
weekend,” Kranenburg said.  Ted Wells, Citigroup’s lawyer, tried to show that Terra
Firma’s 2.65-pound-a-share bid was based on due diligence the
firm conducted before the auction, as well as conversations with
EMI’s chief executive officer and Terra Firma’s estimate of the
company’s worth, and not on any information passed along by
Wormsley.  In pretrial rulings, Rakoff said that Terra Firma must
prove that Wormsley lied to Hands or was reckless about whether
his statements were true.  The case is Terra Firma v. Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 