-- Lukoil Junk Threat Eases Before First Eurobond Sale in Year: Russia Credit
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-10-25T21:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/lukoil-junk-threat-eases-before-eurobond-sale-russia-credit.html
Investors are growing more confident
that  OAO Lukoil  will avoid having its credit ratings cut to junk
as the oil producer’s debt yields approach those of higher-
graded OAO Gazprom.  Lukoil’s $500 million of bonds due in 2022 yield 23 basis
points more than state-controlled Gazprom’s $1.3 billion of
notes due the same year, the smallest spread in a month, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Lukoil yields are falling as
Russia’s largest non-state oil company meets bondholders in
Asia, Europe and the U.S. this week to garner support for a
dollar debt sale, said two people with knowledge of the offer.  While  Standard & Poor’s  said Oct. 22 it may cut Moscow-
based Lukoil’s ratings to below investment grade, the bonds are
outperforming debt from  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-
run oil producer, and Russian competitor TNK-BP. Chief Executive
Officer  Vagit Alekperov  agreed to buy $1.4 billion of Lukoil’s
shares with a group of investors and pledged $4.47 billion of
his stock as collateral to back loans, according to regulatory
 filings  this month, easing concern that the company would
increase debt to buy back its own equity from ConocoPhillips.  “Lukoil is looking quite sound in terms of its credit
quality” because the buyback was “funded by management, not
the company’s balance sheet,” said  Andrey Basatskiy , a Moscow-
based fixed-income money manager at Third Rome, which oversees
about $200 million of assets.  Bond Meetings  Lukoil hired Barclays Capital, ING Groep NV and Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc to manage its sale of bonds, according to
the two people with knowledge of the sale, who declined to be
identified because the deal hasn’t been announced. The maturity
hadn’t been decided, they said on Oct. 21. Lukoil’s press
service declined to comment on the bond offering.  The company probably will raise between $750 million and
$1.2 billion, said  Sergey Dergachev , who helps manage $6 billion
of emerging-market debt at Union Investments in Frankfurt. The
yield for 10-year bonds probably would be about 6 percent, he
said.  Lukoil last sold international debt in October 2009,
offering $900 million of five-year bonds and $600 million of 10-
year dollar securities, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
yield on Lukoil’s 7.25 percent bonds due in November 2019 fell 7
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, yesterday to 5.64
percent, down from the peak of 8.13 percent on May 25.  Yields Fall  The yield on Lukoil’s bonds due in 2022 fell 5 basis points
to 5.92 percent yesterday, down from 6.23 percent on Oct. 1,
Bloomberg prices show. The spread over Gazprom has narrowed from
54 basis points at the start of this month.  Lukoil’s dollar bonds due November 2014 yield 99 basis
points more than Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras’s September 2014
dollar notes, compared with a spread of 160 in August and 271 on
May 25.  “Lukoil compares very well against similar companies like
Petrobras,” Dergachev said in a phone interview. “The
ConocoPhillips buyback was not hugely detrimental to the
company’s standing.”  Lukoil’s bonds also outperformed those of TNK-BP, the oil
producer that is owned by London-based BP Plc and a group of
Russian billionaires. TNK-BP’s bonds due in 2020 are yielding 15
basis points more than Lukoil’s 2019 notes, a reversal from
August when the notes sold by TNK-BP were yielding as much as 51
basis points more.  All three oil companies are rated BBB- by Standard &
Poor’s. Gazprom, based in Moscow, is graded a level higher at
BBB.  Extra Yield  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 was little
changed at 4.34 percent yesterday. The country’s ruble notes due
November 2014 were unchanged, yielding 7.14 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 2 basis points to 209,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 139 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 181 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 45 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Ruble Gains  The ruble gained for a third day against the dollar,
strengthening 0.4 percent to 30.2475 per dollar in Moscow
trading yesterday. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest rate differentials and allow companies to hedge against
currency movements, showed the ruble at 30.5138 in three months.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell 1 basis point to 142,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost 6
basis points more than similar contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  Moody’s rates Lukoil  Baa2 , its second-lowest investment-
grade ranking, with a “stable” outlook.  Gazprom  Returns on Lukoil bonds had been underperforming Gazprom
after S&P placed the oil company’s debt on “watch negative” on
July 29 because of concern the company would increase debt to
buy back shares. Lukoil agreed to buy 7.6 percent of its own
shares for $3.44 billion on July 28 as Houston-based
ConocoPhillips sold its stake to repay debts.  Alekperov, Russia’s sixth-richest man with a fortune of
$10.6 billion according to Forbes magazine, was among a group of
investors that helped buy an additional 5 percent stake with
UniCredit Bank AG from ConocoPhilips for $2.4 billion under an
option that expired Sept. 26, according to a regulatory filing
on Sept. 27.  As part of the deal, Redruth Investments, a company linked
to Alekperov, gained 2.9 percent of Lukoil for $1.4 billion on
Sept. 28 and raised an undisclosed amount of money from a group
of banks led by UBS AG after pledging 77 million shares as
collateral a week earlier, valued at $4.5 billion based on the
share price at the time. Lukoil paid $980 million for the other
2.1 percent, according to a regulatory filing.  “We view Lukoil’s liquidity management as less robust,
historically, than that of its investment-grade peers,” S&P
analysts including  Andrey Nikolaev  said in the Oct. 22 report.
“We understand from management that it may take several actions
in the coming weeks to strengthen its debt-maturity profile.”  Lukoil expects to have $5 billion in free cash flow by the
end of this year and isn’t in danger of a rating cut because of
the share buyback, Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Leonid Fedun 
told reporters in Moscow on Oct. 6.  “Lukoil is a name we like, they’re much more
conservative” in terms of debt compared with competitors, said
 Jerome Benathan , who manages the equivalent of about $1.5
billion of debt at Swisscanto Asset Management in Zurich. “They
are moving from a shareholder-friendly attitude to a more
opportunistic bondholder-friendly one before the new issuance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Bierman  in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  