-- Hungary's `Risky' Budget Measures Fail to Convince IMF on Deficit Cuts
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-10-25T23:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/hungary-budget-plan-not-quite-enough-to-meet-2011-deficit-goal-imf-says.html
Hungary failed to convince the
International Monetary Fund that plans to levy new taxes, cut
spending and shift pension payments to the budget will be enough
to meet  deficit  targets after this year.  The plan may lead to slower  growth  and a “significantly”
wider shortfall than the government forecasts beginning in 2011,
said  Christoph Rosenberg , head of an IMF delegation that
conducted an annual review of the economy. Hungary must do more
to reduce spending to achieve a sustainable budget, he said.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , elected in April on a pledge
to end five years of austerity, has imposed three-year taxes on
the banking, telecommunication, energy and retail industries to
help reduce the deficit and finance a cut in the personal income
tax. That followed a four-month standoff with the IMF and
European Union as he sought to relax fiscal targets.  “The government’s plans are bold but also risky,”
Rosenberg told reporters yesterday in Budapest. “They do
address one long-standing issue, namely the tax wedge, and they
do that while attempting to stick to fiscal targets agreed with
the EU. They’re also risky because they do raise questions on
medium-term fiscal sustainability.”  The forint traded at 273.31 per euro at 8:13 p.m. in
Budapest yesterday from 275.14 late on Oct. 22. The benchmark
BUX stock index rose 0.8 percent to 23,418.03. The yield on the
benchmark five-year bond fell to 6.669 percent from 6.779
percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Orban last month promised to meet EU and IMF demands to cut
the deficit to 3.8 percent of gross domestic product this year
and less than 3 percent next year. Talks with the EU and IMF,
which saved Hungary from default with a 20 billion-euro ($28
billion) bailout in 2008, stalled in July over the same targets.  ‘Highly Uncertain’  The effect of cuts in personal and corporate income taxes
on the economy is “highly uncertain,” Rosenberg said. The
Washington-based IMF estimates growth of 2.5 percent next year,
compared with the government’s 3 percent projection.  “His comments suggest, given the usual IMF diplomatic
language, that there is some real concern around the
government’s measures and the increased risks to fiscal
sustainability post-2013 when many of the measures roll off,”
said  Peter Attard Montalto , an economist at Nomura International
in London, in a note to clients yesterday.  While the taxes announced so far, estimated to raise 343
billion forint ($1.8 billion) annually, will help Hungary meet
its deficit target for this year, they are insufficient to meet
the 2011 goal, Rosenberg said.  Reduced ‘Transparency’  Shifting social security payments from private pension
funds to the budget will improve the budget balance while
increasing the risk the money will be used for budget
expenditures, Rosenberg said.  The move will “reduce fiscal transparency while increasing
fiscal risks,” the IMF said yesterday in a statement.  The 2011 budget now in the planning process accounts for
discrepancies between the IMF’s and Hungary’s forecasts, said
 Andras Karman , a state secretary in the Economy Ministry.  The government expects increased tax revenue from higher
growth and “structural” spending cuts to help meet its budget
deficit targets, he said at the same press conference.  The shortfall may widen “significantly” in 2012 because
of the tax reductions and temporary nature of some budget
revenue, central bank Vice President  Ferenc Karvalits  said at
the press conference. Hungary needs spending cuts to ensure the
sustainability of the budget, he said, adding that the country
is likely to meet its targets this year and next.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
 Edith Balazs  at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  