-- Hungary May Leave Rates at Record Low for Sixth Month to Protect Forint
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-25T08:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/hungary-may-leave-rates-at-record-low-for-sixth-month-to-protect-forint.html
Hungary’s central bank will probably
keep its  main interest rate  unchanged for a sixth month to
protect the forint as the country’s risk premium has been rising
since the government announced budget plans.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  will leave the benchmark two-week
deposit rate at a record-low 5.25 percent today, according to 17
of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. One forecast an increase
to 5.5 percent. A decision will be announced at 2 p.m. in
Budapest.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  seeks to balance personal and
corporate income tax cuts next year with temporary levies on the
banking, energy, telecommunications and retail industries and by
redirecting private pension fund contributions to the budget.
The independent  Fiscal Council  said the measures won’t be enough
to offset the cuts and are causing investor “uncertainty.”  “Until all fiscal uncertainties are cleared up and the
budget process is out of the way, the central bank will most
likely stay put,” Intesa Sanpaolo SpA economist  Gyorgy Barta  in
Budapest said in a research note.  Hungary’s credit-default swap, measuring the cost of
ensuring government debt against default, rose 23.41 basis
points to 285.684 as of 10:04 a.m., eight days after Orban
announced the industry taxes. The forint weakened 0.5 percent in
the same period and traded at 273.55 per euro at 10:00 a.m.  ‘Endanger Fiscal Stability’  The Hungarian central bank has no room to “meaningfully”
reduce interest rates as a cut may weaken the forint, increasing
the burden of households with foreign-currency loans, central
bank Vice President  Ferenc Karvalits  said on Oct. 2.  “The currency would presumably weaken as a result and the
rise in foreign-currency repayments would curb the economic
recovery and endanger fiscal stability,” he said at a
conference in Szeged, Hungary.  Orban plans a flat 16 percent personal income tax next year
after cutting the corporate tax to 10 percent for smaller
companies to create jobs and boost growth after the worst
recession in 18 years.  In the next two years, the cabinet wants to cover the
revenue shortfall from tax cuts with the special levies and cuts
in state bureaucracy spending. In the longer term, it is
counting on economic growth rates of 4 percent to 6 percent
annually to generate extra revenue, Orban said.  ‘Erase This Gap’  The tax cuts will increase the budget gap by 200 billion
forint ($1 billion) in 2012 and as much as 700 billion forint
from 2013, Fiscal Council Chairman  Gyorgy Kopits  said in a
speech to lawmakers on Oct. 19.  “We can’t count on economic growth or changes in the
attitude of taxpayers to erase this gap,” Kopits said,
according to a transcript e-mailed to Bloomberg News. “Until
plans emerge that deal with this, markets will stay uncertain,
which was evidenced in recent months by the rise in the risk
premium of government bonds of medium- to long-term maturity.”  Inflation  accelerating in September may also add to
arguments against a rate cut. The rate rose to 3.8 percent from
3.7 percent in August, which matched the lowest rate since June
2009. Central bankers target a 3 percent rate. The bank raised
its inflation forecast for the next two years in August, citing
a weaker currency and rising energy costs.  “We are facing the same conflict,” central bank Vice
President  Julia Kiraly  said on Oct. 12. “There is a sort of
inflationary pressure from the exchange-rate depreciation and
the global increase of raw material prices. These inflationary
pressures are balanced by the weakness of domestic demand.
Undoubtedly, the next decision will also be a difficult
decision. There is no quick, simple solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  