-- Hungary Central Bank Leaves Main Rate Unchanged for Sixth Month on Forint
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-10-25T14:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/hungary-central-bank-leaves-main-rate-unchanged-for-sixth-month-on-forint.html
Hungary’s central bank kept its  main
interest rate  unchanged for a sixth month to protect the forint
as the country’s risk premium rose since the government
announced its budget plans.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  left the benchmark two-week deposit
rate at a record-low 5.25 percent today, matching the forecasts
of 17 of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The decision had a
“large majority” after policy makers also discussed a cut to 5
percent and an increase to 5.5 percent, central bank President
 Andras Simor  said in Budapest.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  seeks to balance personal and
corporate income tax cuts next year with temporary levies on the
banking, energy, telecommunications and retail industries and by
redirecting private pension fund contributions to the budget.
The independent  Fiscal Council  said the measures won’t be enough
to offset the cuts and are causing investor “uncertainty.”  “This meeting turned out to be a ‘wait-and-see’ operation,”
 Pasquale Diana , an economist at Morgan Stanley in London, wrote
in a note to clients. “Unless risk rallies convincingly from
here, we remain closer to a rate hike than a rate cut.”  Hungary’s credit-default swap, measuring the cost of
ensuring government debt against default, rose 23.41 basis
points to 285.684 at 10:04 a.m. today, 12 days after since Orban
announced the industry taxes. The forint weakened 0.5 percent in
the period and traded at 273.88 per euro at 4:20 p.m. today.  Potential Rate Increase  Monetary-policy makers may need to raise the country’s
benchmark interest rate if the  inflation  outlook worsens or if a
deterioration in the country’s risk assessment becomes
sustained, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank said.  Rate setters today left borrowing costs unchanged because
of “uncertainties” about inflation and as  economic output  is
expected to lag behind its potential level, the central bank
said in a statement today. The central bank will release its
updated economic forecasts next month, which will make the next
central bank rate meeting “more eventful,” Diana said.  Orban plans a flat 16 percent personal income tax next year
after cutting the corporate tax to 10 percent for smaller
companies to create jobs and boost growth after the worst
recession in 18 years.  In the next two years, the cabinet wants to cover the
revenue shortfall from tax cuts with the special levies and cuts
in state bureaucracy spending. In the longer term, it is
counting on economic-growth rates of 4 percent to 6 percent
annually to generate extra revenue, Orban said.  ‘Erase This Gap’  The tax cuts will increase the budget gap by 200 billion
forint ($1 billion) in 2012 and as much as 700 billion forint
from 2013, Fiscal Council Chairman  Gyorgy Kopits  said in a
speech to lawmakers on Oct. 19.  “We can’t count on economic growth or changes in the
attitude of taxpayers to erase this gap,” Kopits said,
according to a transcript e-mailed to Bloomberg News. “Until
plans emerge that deal with this, markets will stay uncertain,
which was evidenced in recent months by the rise in the risk
premium of government bonds of medium- to long-term maturity.”  Inflation  accelerating in September may also have added to
arguments against a rate cut. The rate rose to 3.8 percent from
3.7 percent in August, which matched the lowest rate since June
2009. Central bankers target a 3 percent rate. The bank raised
its inflation forecast for the next two years in August, citing
a weaker currency and rising energy costs.  Tax Effects  The tax changes may temporarily boost inflation and curb
investment, potentially slowing economic growth, Simor told
reporters in Budapest today.  The measures ensure Hungary will meet its budget-deficit
targets this year and next, which helped the country’s risk
assessment, he said. In the longer term, the taxes deteriorate
the structural position of the budget, because they don’t
contain an offset of a reduction in the personal income tax and
spending-side measures aren’t visible, Simor said.  The government shouldn’t use pension savings to fix current
budget financing problems even temporarily, the central bank
said in a separate statement on its website today.  Endangering the predictable operation of the private
pension-fund system reduces confidence in long-term savings, the
predictability of individual life strategies and strengthens
society’s dependence on government redistribution, the Magyar
Nemzeti Bank said.  Spending pension savings on financing the budget deficit
increases risks to fiscal sustainability and deteriorates the
growth outlook of the economy, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  