-- Underwriters May Be Banned From Advising on Municipal Bonds, MSRB Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-10-25T21:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/muni-bond-underwriters-may-be-banned-from-advising-on-issuance-msrb-says.html
Banks may be banned from advising
public officials on U.S. state and local bond deals they
underwrite to prevent the firms from exploiting the dual role at
taxpayers’ expense.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which crafts
regulations for the $2.8 trillion municipal bond market, said
 today  it is moving to prevent companies from holding both roles.
Last week, the board also agreed that advisers should be covered
by rules barring securities dealers from deceptive, dishonest or
unfair practices.  State and local government officials hire advisers to help
them borrow funds most cheaply. Regulations now allow companies
to advise on deals they underwrite, a situation U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said should stop.  “The change will eliminate what could be perceived as
conflict of interest for dealers, and I stress the words ‘could
be perceived,’”  Michael Bartolotta , MRSB chairman and vice
chairman of First Southwest Co. in Dallas, an underwriting and
advisory company, told reporters today in a conference call.  In Whose Interest?  The changes would apply to bond issues sold at competitive
auctions among banks as well as in so-called negotiated sales.
In those deals, an underwriter is selected to set interest rates
and line up buyers for the securities in return for an agreed-
upon fee. Unlike advisers, underwriters have no requirement to
act in their clients’ best interests, and they can set bond
interest rates higher to make them easier to resell to
investors.  Typically, financial advisers monitor an underwriter’s work
in negotiated sales or oversee the auction of the securities.
Under current rules, an adviser can persuade a borrower to hire
it to underwrite the securities, tailor an auction so that it
would be the winning bidder, or add derivatives that would
provide higher fees but might not be in the borrower’s best
interest.  The MSRB’s current regulation, known as G-23, has allowed a
bank to be an adviser and underwriter on the same transaction,
provided it resigns as adviser before the securities are
offered, and that it discloses the conflict of interest to its
client.  Board Remade  The decision to ask the SEC for approval to stop that
practice, which the MSRB previously said it was considering, was
made last week, when the board held its first meeting since the
Dodd-Frank financial overhaul took effect. That law required the
MSRB to  recast its board  so that a majority isn’t composed of
representatives of businesses that it regulates, and empowered
the board to write rules for advisers, which haven’t been
subject to regulation.  The proposed ban would affect companies including Piper
Jaffray Cos. and First Southwest that arrange securities sales
and offer financial advice.  First Southwest has been both financial adviser and
underwriter on only a small share of transactions, typically on
behalf of its smaller clients,  Hill Feinberg , chief executive
officer, said in a telephone interview. The company has
underwritten negotiated deals on which it advised fewer than two
dozen times out of nearly 2,000 transactions, he said. The
average size of the issues was about $5.5 million, Feinberg
said.  Impact on Borrowers  The change would have little monetary impact on First
Southwest’s business, though he said it could make it most
costly for small borrowers by placing limits on underwriting
firms.  “We don’t think it will hurt us,” he said in a telephone
interview. “What we are concerned about is some of the smaller
issuers out there.”  Jennifer Olson-Goude , a spokeswoman for Piper, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  The Bond Dealers Association, which represents local
underwriting firms, unsuccessfully pressed the MSRB to allow
advisers to underwrite bonds sold at competitive auction, saying
small borrowers could be hit with higher financing costs if they
can’t find enough firms willing to bid.  Also last week, the board moved to apply to advisory firms
its rule G-17, which enjoins securities dealers from
“deceptive, dishonest, or unfair practice,” according to the
MSRB website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 