-- Munich Re Expects `Stable' Reinsurance Prices After January Renewals Round
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-10-25T09:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/munich-re-expects-stable-reinsurance-prices-after-january-renewals-round.html
Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, expects prices for property and casualty coverage to
remain unchanged in the January round of renewals.  “We are expecting our portfolio prices, terms and
conditions to remain stable,”  Ludger Arnoldussen , the
management board member responsible for Germany, Asia-Pacific
and Africa at  Munich Re , said today at a press conference in
 Baden-Baden , Germany. “We will withdraw from business where we
cannot realize risk-adequate prices.”  Reinsurers, which help primary insurers such as  Allianz SE 
and  Axa SA  shoulder risks for clients, are gathering this week
for their annual meeting with customers in the southern German
spa town of Baden-Baden to renegotiate terms and conditions of
contracts due for renewal in January. This follows earlier
meetings with clients in Monte Carlo in September.  Reinsurance companies such as Munich Re and Hannover Re
typically renew about two-thirds of their property and casualty
contracts with customers on Jan. 1. The industry’s profitability
is being hurt by low interest rates, which weigh on the
investment income reinsurers and insurers get on premiums
collected from customers.  “Very low interest rates make price increases necessary,
especially in business involving long-term risks,” Arnoldussen
said. “There is a growing need for action not only for
reinsurers but also for primary insurers.”  Premium Income  Munich Re  said  the industry’s premium income from German
renewable-energy facilities such as wind energy, photovoltaic
and biomass may grow to about 440 million euros ($619 million)
in 2020 from about 186 million euros in 2009.  “We are market leading in the reinsurance field for
renewable energies,” Arnoldussen said at today’s press
conference, adding that Munich Re’s premium income in the area
currently totals about 20 million euros.  The reinsurer received “a lot of interest” from brokers,
peers as well as oil and gas companies on its proposal for the
industry to provide as much as $20 billion of individual
liability coverage to oil drilling operators in the Gulf of
Mexico following the Deepwater Horizon spill, according to
Arnoldussen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  