-- Wal-Mart `Optimistic' India to Allow Foreign Retail Investment
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2010-10-26T10:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/wal-mart-s-duke-optimistic-india-will-allow-retail-investment.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Duke  said he is “optimistic” that overseas
companies will be allowed to invest in India’s retail industry.  Wal-Mart , the world’s largest retailer, and rivals
including  Carrefour SA  and  Tesco Plc  are pushing India’s
government to allow foreign investment after the trade ministry
invited views from the industry on removing the restriction. The
government’s discussion paper said in July that allowing foreign
investment in retail will lower prices and benefit farmers.  “The opening of dialogue the ministry has initiated is
very productive, and I view that as progress,” Duke said at a
press conference in New Delhi yesterday. Easing the rules on
foreign investment in retail will help curb inflation and may
lead to the creation of 3 million jobs in  India , he said today.  India is the third most attractive retail market for global
retailers among the thirty largest emerging markets, U.S.
consulting group AT Kearney said in a June  report . The growing
middle class, expanding economy and increasingly brand-conscious
consumers will help push retail sales up by 35 percent over the
next three years, the consultant said.  Duke is in India, the world’s second-most populous nation,
to meet with government officials and visit wholesale stores
that  Wal-Mart  operates with New Delhi-based Bharti Enterprises
Pvt. Indian laws, aimed at protecting the interests of small
store owners, limit overseas investment to single-brand retail
or wholesale operations.  ‘Enormous’ Opportunities  Wal-Mart would invest more capital and build more stores if
foreign investment is allowed in multi-brand retail in India,
Duke said, without providing more details.  “The opportunities for foreign firms are enormous,” said
Narayanan Ramaswamy, executive director at KPMG in India. “The
retail demand in India is huge and next only to China, so there
is considerable growth potential for these companies over the
coming years.”  The Congress Party-led government has previously been
rebuffed in its attempts to obtain political backing from its
former Communist allies for plans to allow foreign retailers to
invest in India.  “The fear in the big urban towns is that relaxing the laws
will drive the mom-and-pop retailers out of business or at least
curtail their margins severely,” said  Apurva Shah , head of
research at Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in Mumbai. “That is going
to be the principal roadblock for the government to do
anything.”  Bharti Partnership  Barred from opening retail stores in India on its own,  Wal-
Mart  partnered with Bharti in August 2007. The two companies are
jointly opening wholesale stores and building a supply-chain
network.  Organized retail may create as many as 3 million jobs in
the next five years in India, Duke said. Bharti Wal-Mart, the
joint venture, aims to buy produce from 35,000 farmers by the
end of 2015, and help increase their income by as much as 20
percent by purchasing directly and improving their efficiency.  In April, Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart  and Bharti
opened a second wholesale store in the northern state of Punjab.
Bharti-Walmart, an equal joint venture, plans to have as many as
15 such stores by the end of 2011.  “India is very important to Wal-Mart and that’s why we
keep coming back and why we pay a great deal of attention to
India,” Duke said yesterday.  Obama Visit  Wal-Mart declined 0.2 percent to $53.95 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday. The world’s largest listed
company has gained 0.9 percent this year, compared with a 6.3
percent climb for the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index.  Duke’s trip to India comes ahead of President  Barack Obama ’s first state visit to the country. The U.S. president
will address a conference sponsored by the U.S.-India Business
Council Nov. 6 in Mumbai, India’s financial capital.  Obama is expected to bring the largest U.S. business
delegation to India and the Obama administration will probably
push for greater access for foreign retailers, KPMG’s Ramaswamy
said.  “I would definitely think that the Obama delegation will
be pushing for greater access, it is a very important part of
the retailers’ expansion plans,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Malavika Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  