-- Walgreen Said to Seek Sale of Pharmacy-Benefits Manager
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2010-10-25T20:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/walgreen-said-to-seek-sale-of-pharmacy-benefits-management-unit.html
Walgreen Co. , the largest U.S. drug-
store chain, is looking to sell its pharmacy-benefits management
business and has hired an adviser to run an auction, said three
people with knowledge of the matter.  The sale of the PBM unit, which Walgreen started in 1995,
may fetch $500 million to $1 billion depending on what  assets 
are included in the deal, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. Walgreen, based in
Deerfield, Illinois, is being advised by Bank of America Corp.,
the people said.  Walgreen received first-round bids for the business last
week, said two of the people. Medco Health Solutions Inc.,
Express Scripts Inc. and  CVS Caremark Corp. , the three largest
PBMs in the U.S., are among the companies that have expressed
interest, the people said. Walgreen is expanding its retail and
worksite medical clinics as well as its specialty pharmacy, home
health care, infusion and respiratory therapy businesses.  “Strategically, their business model never relied on a
PBM,” said  Andrew Wolf , a Richmond, Virginia-based analyst with
BB&T Capital Markets, which recommends investors buy the stock.
“They’ve always approached the market differently. They have
looked to increase their breadth of services so that they are in
direct conversation with payers,” Wolf said in an interview.  Michael Polzin , a spokesman for Walgreen, and  Lowell Weiner , a spokesman for Franklin Lakes, New Jersey-based Medco
Health, declined to comment. Julie Adelsberger, a spokeswoman
for St. Louis-based Express Scripts, and  Carolyn Castel , a
spokeswoman for Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based CVS, also
declined to comment. A spokesman for Bank of America didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  Negotiating Savings  PBMs make money by negotiating prices with retail
pharmacies and drugmakers and processing a large number of
claims. They pass most of those savings on to corporate,
government and insurance customers.  Medco Health, Express Scripts and CVS account for about 60
percent of the PBM market, according to  Adam Fein , president of
Pembroke Consulting Inc., a pharmacy-industry consultant in
Philadelphia. Walgreens Health Initiatives is the ninth-largest
PBM in the country, with about 2.6 percent of the market, Fein
said. It will process about 108 million prescriptions in 2010,
he said.  Walgreen rose 37 cents to $34.44 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 6.2
percent this year.  Walgreen has more than 8,000 locations through retail
stores, hospitals and corporate health centers. Walgreen has
said its strategy is to provide health-care services to patients
rather than process claims.  ‘Strategically Sound’  “We view a divestiture of the PBM as strategically sound
for Walgreen, which does not have the needed scale to be a major
player in the industry,” said  Joel Levington , managing director
of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in
New York. “From a credit standpoint, a sale would be a modest
negative, as we suspect the company would use the proceeds to
repurchase shares,” Levington said in an e-mail.  Pharmacy-benefits managers compete on price to win
contracts and gain market share often at the expense of margins,
Wolf said. Purchasing a PBM is a way to gain market share
without hurting margins, he said.  Express Scripts bought Next RX, the PBM subsidiary of
WellPoint Inc., last year for $4.68 billion. Aetna Inc.
considered selling its 9.7 million-member PBM last year and
opted instead to turn the administration of the business over to
CVS Caremark.  CVS Caremark will handle $9.5 billion in annual drug
spending and manage purchasing, inventory and prescription
fulfillment for Aetna’s mail-order and specialty pharmacy
business as part of a 12-year contract. Bank of America ran the
sale process for Hartford, Connecticut-based Aetna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Carol Wolf  in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 