-- Wall Street's Hellhound Exposes Citigroup's Greedy Past: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-10-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/wall-street-s-hellhound-exposes-citigroup-s-greedy-past-in-taut-history.html
If you search  Citigroup Inc.’s 
website, a former chairman named Charles E. Mitchell pops up
under the heading “ Our Legacy .”  What the page doesn’t mention is Mitchell’s reputation for
greed, stock manipulation, tax avoidance and abusing customers
and shareholders at what was then called  National City Bank .  During Mitchell’s heyday in the 1920s, City Bank and its
securities-trading arm luxuriated in unsavory dealings, as
 Michael Perino  writes in his page-turning history, “The
Hellhound of Wall Street.” The attack dog was  Ferdinand Pecora ,
a former New York prosecutor who shamed Mitchell in 10 days of
Senate hearings in 1933.  In singling out City, the largest bank in the land, Pecora
sought to illustrate how widespread such practices were -- and
why the government, which had assumed a laissez-faire attitude
to Wall Street, needed to police it.  The hearings took place against a backdrop of Hoovervilles
and  unemployment  stuck at 25 percent. Banks were closing and
other businesses, with their accounts frozen, shut down, too. As
cash drained from the economy, bartering became common: One man
in Salt Lake City paid his trolley fare with a pair of trousers.  Pecora’s investigation, and the outrage it stoked, spurred
Congress and President  Franklin Delano Roosevelt  to introduce
the first federal securities laws, federal deposit insurance and
the Securities and Exchange Commission. It was the moment when
“the federal government crossed its regulatory Rubicon,”
writes Perino, a professor at St. John’s University School of
Law and a past Wall Street litigator.  ‘Sunshine Charlie’  Like a filmmaker, Perino cuts between squatter camps and
the hearings, held around a baize-topped mahogany table under a
barrel-vaulted ceiling in the  Senate Office Building . The book
hints at what might have happened, for better or worse, if  Hank Paulson  and  Ben Bernanke  had let more banks implode.  “Sunshine Charlie” was as prominent then as  Jamie Dimon 
is today. An upbeat banker with an “indomitable jaw,” he ran a
vast financial supermarket that prided itself in selling
securities, like so much coffee, to the middle class. He owned
mansions and advised U.S. presidents including  Herbert Hoover .  Pecora, a cigar-smoking Sicilian immigrant, was little
known outside New York. He had a reputation for legal rectitude
and extramarital affairs. He was hired as chief counsel for the
investigation only after the  Senate Banking and Currency
Committee  ran out of candidates in the last weeks of a
congressional term. The senators paid him $255 a month.  Morality Play  With the clock ticking loudly, Pecora had only three days
to pore over the minute books of board meetings at City Bank and
its affiliate. Although his grasp of markets was often sketchy,
he knew a good morality play when he saw one.  The drama began on Day One, when Pecora quizzed Mitchell
about the bank’s bonus plan and his own earnings. Mitchell, it
turned out, received a shocking amount: more than $3.5 million
from 1927 through 1929. A factory worker, if he had a job in
1933, got about $17 a week, Perino says.  Yet the day’s real bombshell came when Pecora pinned down
why Mitchell sold 18,300 City Bank shares in late 1929, only to
buy them back at the same price in early 1930. The trade, with
his wife, was done for one reason only.  “I sold this stock, frankly, for tax purposes,” he said.  His reported loss came to $2.8 million, meaning he didn’t
pay a penny of tax on his $1.1 million income in 1929. The word
“bankster” soon ricocheted across the nation.  In the following days, Pecora explored how executives had
manipulated  stock prices , concealed losses on investments in
Cuban sugar, and taken interest-free loans, most never repaid.  Customers Left Destitute  Worse still was how the bank exploited customers such as
Edgar D. Brown, an almost deaf former theater owner with
tuberculosis. He was left destitute after entrusting his
portfolio of $100,000 in cash and mostly U.S. government bonds
to the bank’s trading arm.  Pecora, once a media star, was largely forgotten until our
own market meltdown. So was the role that City Bank’s behavior
played in convincing the government to separate commercial and
investment banking under the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933. The
merger that created Citigroup in 1998 prompted the repeal of
that provision, freeing banks to gamble with the taxpayer’s
money.  Cries for a new Glass-Steagall went out after the collapse
of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . The financial-overhaul bill
that lawmakers patched together falls short of that, and this
book indirectly suggests why.  It’s not just that we had no Pecora. It’s also because
Bernanke and Paulson, by saving the system from the abyss,
sapped the public fury that might have fueled deeper change.  As for Sunshine Charlie, he resigned and then did what
disgraced bankers often do. After a jury pronounced him not
guilty of tax evasion, he went back to work on Wall Street. By
his death in 1955, Perino says, he was again an affluent and
esteemed banker.  “The Hellhound of Wall Street: How Ferdinand Pecora’s
Investigation of the Great Crash Forever Changed American
Finance” is from  Penguin Press  (341 pages, $27.95). To buy this
book in North America, click  here .  ( James Pressley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 James Pressley  in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 