-- Weber Says He Won't Change His Stripes to Become ECB President
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-10-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/weber-refuses-to-change-style-as-bond-view-hurts-trichet-succession-chance.html
Axel Weber  is refusing to change his
style even as speculation mounts that a lack of diplomacy is
damaging his chances of becoming the next European Central Bank
president.  “I always follow my own path and that has always served me
well,” Weber, Germany’s Bundesbank president, said in a panel
discussion in Stuttgart late yesterday when asked if he wants to
head the ECB. “It’s better to do a good job for eight years
than always look to the next one.”  Weber has broken ranks with his ECB colleagues by
campaigning against the bank’s bond-purchase program, raising
doubts about whether he will be chosen to succeed  Jean-Claude Trichet , whose non-renewable term ends in a year’s time. Critics
say Weber lacks the ability to forge consensus on the ECB’s
Governing Council at a time when Europe’s monetary union is
facing its sternest test.  “It may make it difficult politically for Weber to be
appointed,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
Barclays Capital in London, who has covered the ECB since its
inception in 1998. Political leaders may now look for a
compromise candidate who is more apt at representing the views
of the entire ECB council, Callow said.  Weber’s role as head of Europe’s largest national central
bank, and the fact that Germany hasn’t held a top European post
since the 1960s, made him the front runner to succeed Trichet in
a Bloomberg survey of economists in February.  Political Jockeying  The political jockeying that will determine who gets
Europe’s top economics job is only beginning and may culminate
at a leaders’ summit next June.  While neither French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  nor German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  have publicly backed any candidate,
France’s La Tribune newspaper reported on Oct. 22 that Sarkozy
opposes Weber because of his forceful style and policy
positions. He backs Italian central bank head  Mario Draghi , the
newspaper said.  Weber has isolated himself on the ECB’s 22-member Governing
Council with calls for the bank to stop the bond purchases that
are a key plank in Europe’s  battle  against its sovereign debt
crisis.  Weber openly opposed the decision when it was first
announced on May 10, and reiterated his concerns in a speech in
New York on Oct. 13, saying there was “no evidence” the
purchases were reducing bond yields.  ‘Spat With Trichet’  Trichet, who regularly insists he is the sole spokesman for
the ECB’s 22-member council, dismissed Weber’s views five days
later, saying they don’t reflect the consensus.  “I am a stability-oriented policy maker and that won’t
change,” Weber said in Stuttgart yesterday.  Bond-market tensions have eased since the ECB started
buying, though yields remain near euro-era highs in Ireland and
Portugal. The ECB, which has bought 63.5 billion euros ($89.1
billion) of bonds so far, refrained from any purchases in the
past two weeks.  “His latest spat with Trichet has just confirmed that he’s
not suitable for the position of ECB president,” said  Werner Langen , a member of the European Parliament and of Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Party. “Draghi is far more qualified for
an EU position of that stature” and “there is already talk of
other compromise candidates,” he said.  Candidates  Those names include Finnish central bank governor  Erkki Liikanen  and Germany’s  Klaus Regling , said Langen.  Yves Mersch 
from Luxembourg and  Nout Wellink  of the Netherlands are other
potential candidates. Still, the tendency to distribute top EU
jobs on the basis of nationality may work against them.  “The EU appointment process is mostly a lottery, with
tickets allocated on the basis of nationality and good
connections to the top leaders,” said  Daniel Gros , director of
the Centre for European Policy Studies in Brussels.  While Liikanen’s nine-year spell at the European Commission
between 1995 and 2004 means he knows how to navigate the
political landscape in Brussels, Finland already has someone in
a top EU post with  Olli Rehn  serving as the region’s Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner.  Likewise Mersch, who lost out on the ECB vice presidency
earlier this year, may find his chances reduced by the fact that
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  chairs the group
of euro-region finance ministers. Wellink shares the same
nationality as  Wim Duisenberg , the ECB’s first president.  International Profile  Regling, who currently runs the 750 billion-euro bailout
fund set up to fight the debt crisis, has the advantage that he
is German, says  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group.
Still, he has never sat on the ECB’s Governing Council.  “Weber has stepped on people’s toes and Regling is the
only other German with a high enough international profile,
which is why his name comes up,” said Brzeski, who used to work
at the European Commission. “While for me there is no real
alternative to Weber or Draghi, it’s the politicians who will
decide at the end of the day.”  Draghi’s candidacy is also complicated by the fact that he
used to work for Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which arranged
currency swaps that helped Greece hide the extent of its budget
deficit. Draghi had no role in those arrangements, a spokeswoman
for the Italian central bank said yesterday.  Key to the decision is agreement between Germany and
France, the euro region’s largest and second-largest economies.
Germany bowed to French pressure last week in agreeing to water
down proposed sanctions on deficit violators. That compromise
will be discussed by EU leaders at an Oct. 28-29 summit in
Brussels.  Weber’s Credentials  On paper, Weber has the credentials for the job.  Like Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , he is a
former academic. He joined the Bundesbank as president from the
University of Cologne in 2004 and carved out a reputation as an
advocate of the inflation-fighting policies that made the
deutsche mark Europe’s benchmark currency until the introduction
of the euro in 1999.  “We need someone like Weber to stamp Germany’s stability
culture on the currency,” said  Frank Schaeffler , a financial
spokesman for the Free Democrats, Merkel’s junior coalition
partner. “The question of who succeeds Trichet is terrifically
important.”  Weber is likely to be more conciliatory in his approach
once he becomes ECB President, said  Christoph Kind , who helps
invest about $20 billion at Frankfurt Trust in Frankfurt.  “He’s still head of the Bundesbank and as such he’s right
to push German interests,” Kind said. “When he started, people
were saying he had no experience and he was too dogmatic, but he
has shown how pragmatic he can be. He’ll grow into the role.”  No Diplomat  Weber signaled in August that he wasn’t prepared to bite
his tongue to land the ECB job.  “It’s important to be a diplomat for the diplomatic corps,
it’s not so important for a central bank,” Weber said in a
Bloomberg interview.  At the same time, one shouldn’t underestimate the ability
of politicians to make surprise decisions, said former European
Commissioner for Internal Markets  Charlie McCreevy , citing the
appointment last year of  Herman Van Rompuy  as the EU’s first
president.  “I was living in Brussels for five and a half years and to
be brutally honest, I had never heard of him,” said McCreevy,
who predicts “much horse-trading” in “backrooms” before the
question of who will succeed Trichet is resolved. “You never
know what might happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  