-- West Virginia Sues Monsanto in Roundup Soybean Probe
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-25T16:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/west-virginia-ag-sues-monsanto-over-soybeans.html
Monsanto Co. , the world’s largest
seed company, was sued by West Virginia for allegedly refusing
to cooperate with the state attorney general’s investigation of
the sale of soybeans that can withstand Roundup weed killer.  West Virginia is looking into whether claims Monsanto makes
about its Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans are supported by test
results. Second-generation Roundup Ready 2 Yield plants are
priced significantly higher than the first-generation seeds,
Attorney General  Darrell McGraw  said today in a  statement .  In its civil enforcement action, the state is seeking an
order barring Monsanto from selling products in West Virginia
until it complies with its subpoena.  “I want to ensure there is a fair marketplace for West
Virginia farmers,” McGraw said. “They need to know if it is
worth extra money to buy new products that may not live up to
the hype.”  St. Louis-based Monsanto said the attorney general’s office
won’t agree to a protective order related to the confidential
intellectual property information. The information sought is
similar to other legal claims that are covered by a protective
order, the company said.  “Agriculture is our only business at Monsanto, and we are
committed to the success of farmers,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement. “That’s why we introduce new products only
after we have thoroughly tested them and have the full
confidence -- backed by data -- that they will deliver on
farm.”  18,000 Acres  West Virginia grew about 18,000 acres of the nation’s 77.5
million acres of soybeans last year, making it the smallest
soybean-growing state tracked by the U.S. Agriculture
Department.  Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybean seed will cost about $5 an
acre more than the first-generation herbicide-resistant product
introduced in 1996, the company said in August. That’s a 75
percent reduction versus a premium of at least $20 that Monsanto
charged this year. About $10 of the reduction comes from making
seed treatments optional.  Monsanto today said its Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans are
yielding 3 bushels an acre more than the original soybean
engineered to withstand applications of Roundup herbicide.
Roundup Ready 2 soybeans struggled to meet a forecasted yield
advantage of 7 percent to 11 percent last year when the seeds
first became available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 