-- Wheat Futures Advance on Dollar's Slump, Dry Weather in U.S. Great Plains
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-25T19:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/wheat-futures-advance-on-dollar-s-slump-dry-weather-in-u-s-great-plains.html
Wheat futures rose for the second
straight session as the dollar dropped and dry weather in the
U.S. Great Plains threatened early development of winter crops.  The  dollar  fell as much as 1 percent against a basket of
currencies, enhancing the appeal of U.S. exports. Rain last week
in the southern Plains mostly missed major growing areas in the
western part of Kansas, the biggest winter-wheat producing
state, Colorado and Nebraska, World Weather Inc. said.  “The lower dollar is the most supportive factor today, and
also dryness in the Plains,” said  Jamey Kohake , a branch
manager at Paragon Investments in Silver Lake, Kansas. “Wheat
areas missed out on most of the rain last week, and the 10-day
forecast looks dry.”  Wheat futures for December delivery climbed 3.25 cents, or
0.5 percent, to settle at $6.74 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. The price climbed 0.3 percent on Oct.
22. The grain has rallied 40 percent since the end of June after
drought in Russia and Eastern Europe hurt crops.  Most of the Plains got less than half of the normal amount
of  rain  this month. The U.S. is the world’s largest wheat
exporter.  Russia Grain Outlook  Prices also rose on forecasts for little improvement in
Russian grain production next year after drought earlier this
year forced the government to ban cereal exports until at least
July 1, said  Tim Hannagan , a grain-market analyst for PFG Best
Inc. in Chicago.  Russia , once the third-largest wheat exporter, may reap
less than 70 million metric tons of grain next year if winter is
severe and farmers face more hurdles in obtaining seeds and
funding for spring sowing, the Institute for Agricultural Market
Studies said. This year’s crop dropped 38 percent to 60 million
tons after Russia’s worst drought in at least half a century.  “Worries about dry weather threatening Russian crop
development” are supporting speculation U.S. export sales will
improve, Hannagan said.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  