-- Woodside Will Need a `Diplomat' CEO After Don Voelte Departs, Goldman Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-25T05:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/woodside-will-need-a-diplomat-ceo-after-voelte-goldman-says.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  may need a
“diplomat rather than an explorer” to overcome obstacles to
developing natural gas projects after Chief Executive Officer
 Don Voelte  retires, Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty said.  Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer will
require a “talented negotiator” to work with the East Timor
government, landowners in the Kimberley wilderness region, gas
suppliers and its largest shareholder,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,
Sydney-based Goldman analysts  Aiden Bradley  and  Mark Wiseman 
wrote in a report.  “The key to delivering value from Woodside’s resource base
will likely lie in its ability to strike deals with a wide
variety of stakeholders,” the analysts wrote in the Oct. 22
report. “The ability to cement these deals has been Woodside’s
major weakness in recent years and the reason why the share
price is currently trading closer to A$40 than A$60.”  Voelte, CEO since April 2004, plans to retire in the second
half of next year after the A$13 billion ($12.9 billion) Pluto
liquefied natural gas project begins production, Woodside said
Oct. 13.  The  Perth-based  company increased 1 percent to A$43.94 by
the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney, compared with a 1.3 percent gain
for the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index .  “At times, it has seemed to us that Woodside has preferred
to create a competitive rather than a collaborative environment
when dealing with some of the largest oil and gas companies in
the world,” such as Chevron Corp., the analysts said.  Roger Martin, a Woodside spokesman, declined to comment.  ‘Tortoise and Hare’  Chevron’s  gas exploration campaign has been more successful
than Woodside’s, Goldman Sachs said. Chevron, the operator of
the A$43 billion Gorgon LNG venture off northwest Australia,
appears to have enough gas to expand the project to five
processing units from three, the analysts wrote. Chevron also
may have enough gas to expand its proposed Wheatstone LNG
development to four units from two, according to the report.  “The tortoise, at this stage in the race, looks to have
overtaken the hare,” the analysts wrote.  Pluto is set to become the fastest LNG venture developed,
with the initial discovery of the field in 2005, Woodside says
on its website. The company delayed a decision to expand the
project until 2011 after its exploration campaign progressed
slower than expected, Voelte, 57, said in August.  Exploration to support an expansion will continue next
year, and Woodside remains in talks with other gas resource
owners in the Carnarvon Basin to feed the venture, it said Oct.
22.  East Timor Clash  Woodside has clashed with East Timor over how to develop
the Sunrise LNG project. Woodside and its partners in the $30
billion Browse LNG project early this year chose a site in the
Kimberley area to process the gas. The Western Australia state
government moved to take over the site for the venture following
the failure of local indigenous groups with claims to the land
to reach agreement, Premier  Colin Barnett  said in September.  Woodside’s relationship with 34 percent-shareholder Shell
is expected to be another priority for a new CEO, the Goldman
analysts wrote.  Shell  is a partner with Chevron in the Gorgon project, and
if The Hague-based company opts to participate in Wheatstone,
that “would potentially place it in direct competition with
Woodside’s plans to expand Pluto,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 