-- Japan's Igarashi Says Yen Sales Most Effective When 'Surprise'
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2010-10-26T00:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/yen-sales-most-effective-when-a-surprise-japan-vice-finance-chief-says.html
Currency-market intervention is most
effective when it’s a “surprise,” a senior Japanese Finance
Ministry official said, sending a warning to traders that Japan
is prepared to act again to stem the yen’s advance.  “A surprise move would probably be effective to some
extent,” Japanese Vice Finance Minister  Fumihiko Igarashi  said
in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “We can’t make an
announcement in advance that we will act, but, on the other hand,
we can’t say that we won’t act either.”  Group of 20 finance authorities said last weekend that
while countries should refrain from “competitive devaluations”
of exchange rates, advanced economies should also be vigilant
about excessive currency moves. Taking that as a cue, Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  repeated after the G-20 meeting that
Japan remains ready to sell yen.  Japan’s currency has appreciated more than 5 percent since
authorities intervened in currency markets for the first time in
six years on Sept. 15. It strengthened to 80.41 to the dollar
yesterday, a 15-year high, and traded at 80.83 at 9:02 a.m. in
Tokyo today. “The recent strengthening in the yen has been
abrupt,” Igarashi said.  ‘Gravitational Pull’  “The gravitational pull of 80.0” yen to the dollar “now
looks unavoidable,”  Adrian Schmidt , foreign exchange strategist
at Lloyds TSB Bank PLC, wrote in a note yesterday. That means
that Japan “could be persuaded to intervene if a global plan to
tackle imbalances and more concrete details to combat excessive
market volatility in exchange rates come to nothing” at the G-
20 summit in Seoul on Nov. 11-12.  Igarashi said that he didn’t know how “accepting” U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and other policy makers
would be of further foreign-exchange intervention, and that
“there needs to be a sense of trust among authorities as well
as among governments.”  The Japanese currency has gained more than 15 percent
against the dollar this year, threatening to erode exporters’
repatriated earnings from abroad.  “Yen intervention risks remain high,”  Mansoor Mohi-uddin ,
foreign-exchange strategy chief at UBS AG, wrote in a note
yesterday. “Japan can point to the reference about being
vigilant against ‘the risk of disorderly movements in exchange
rates’ if it wants to intervene again,” he wrote, referring to
the G-20’s Oct. 23 statement.  Watching Markets  Cabinet ministers have signaled that intervention remains
an option. Noda said today that yen movements have been “one-
sided” and he will continue to watch currency markets with
great interest. Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said in an Oct. 22
interview that intervention is permissible when currencies are
volatile and that overseas opposition shouldn’t deter policy
makers from combating abrupt yen moves.  “Of course, the basic rule is that manipulative forces
should be stripped from markets,” Igarashi said. “But when
price moves are extreme and based on speculation, that can
disrupt the economy” and authorities must take a “bold
stance,” he said.  Igarashi, who was appointed to his post last month, is a
ruling Democratic Party of Japan politician who once cited
traders as saying Japan’s intervention efforts were “foolish.”
The 61-year-old lawmaker early in his career served as a
political reporter at news agency Jiji Press.  Restraining Movements  Igarashi said on Oct. 7 that Japan wouldn’t weaken the yen
to enhance its export competitiveness and that any intervention
is aimed at restraining excessive movements.  Group of 20 finance chiefs vowed to avoid weakening
currencies to lift exports to calm fears of a trade war stemming
from using cheaper currencies to spur growth. They called for
reduced trade imbalances while stopping short of a U.S. proposal
for targets that was aimed at making a yuan advance more
palatable to China. Leaders may take up the debate at the
November Seoul summit.  Among major economies, conducting intervention has “not
been popular because of doubts about its potential for success,
and the reluctance of governments to be seen to be opposing
market forces, and in particular to be defeated by them,” wrote
Lloyds TSB’s Schmidt. “This looks to be less a problem for
Japan than most other countries, as they have a history of being
more prepared to intervene.”  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has pledged more than 5
trillion yen ($62 billion) in stimulus packages and the Bank of
Japan unexpectedly cut its benchmark interest rate near zero
this month while also creating an asset-purchase fund to buy
government and corporate debt as well as exchange-traded funds.  Japan’s  exports  grew at the slowest pace this year in
September, increasing 14.4 percent from a year earlier, a sign
the country is losing its chief engine for growth as its
currency rises just as overseas demand cools.  Reports this week are projected to show that  industrial
production  slid and deflation persisted, adding to concern that
the expansion is losing momentum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyoko Shimodoi  in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net ;
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  