-- Lynas Says Rare Earths Demand to Grow at 9% a Year
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2010-10-25T21:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/lynas-corp-says-global-demand-for-rare-earths-to-expand-at-9-annually.html
Global supplies of rare-earth
elements will fall short of demand, which will grow by an
average of 9 percent annually to the year 2014,  Lynas Corp. 
said yesterday.  Total demand for the group of elements, used in products
such as industrial magnets, flat-screen TVs, and military
weapons systems, is likely to grow to 190,100 metric tons in
2014, from an expected 136,100 tons this year, Lynas, a Sydney-
based, rare-earths developer, said in a presentation.  Global supply will grow only to 170,000 tons by 2014,
according to  Lynas’s  estimates. The projected supply shortfall
may lead to higher prices because users need the elements, which
can’t be easily replaced, Eric Noyrez, chief operating officer
of Lynas said in an interview at the Critical and Rare Metals
Summit III in Washington yesterday.  “You’re not going to stop using rare-earth materials
because the price is going up,” he said.  Prices for the metals have increased since China, producer
of more than 90 percent of the world’s rare earths, reduced its
second-half export quota for the minerals by 72 percent in July.
It is now further restricting exports, according to industry
participants.  The price of lanthanum oxide, used in hybrid-car batteries
among other applications, has risen to $50 a kilogram, an almost
sevenfold increase compared with the second quarter this year,
according to Lynas’s website.  U.S. Defense Needs  The U.S. Government Accountability Office, the
investigative arm of Congress, warned in April of
“vulnerabilities” for the military because of the lack of
domestic suppliers of rare-earth materials used in weapons
systems, such as missiles and radar. The Pentagon is studying
how to secure future supplies of materials, and its report is
due to Congress this month.  Noyrez said Lynas’s A$550 million ($545 million) Mount Weld
rare-earths project in Australia, due to go into operation next
year, will be able to fully meet the U.S. Defense Department’s
needs.  “The quantities are extremely small,” he said of the
Pentagon’s requirements.  Lynas estimates the military would need about 10 tons to 20
tons of rare-earth materials for its weapons systems, Noyrez
said.“Fixing that for them would not take too much time,” he
said.  While the elements aren’t as rare in nature as the name
implies, they are difficult to find in profitable
concentrations, expensive for Western producers to extract and
often laced with radioactive elements. China has come to
dominate the market because it has been able to produce the
elements more cheaply and with fewer environmental restrictions
than its competitors.  China’s recent toughening of environmental standards has
led to a closure of many producers, leading to a tightening of
supply as well as higher production costs, Lynas said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net 
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  