-- Yuan Forwards Gain on Optimism China to Heed Appreciation Call
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-25T10:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/yuan-forwards-gain-on-optimism-china-to-heed-calls-to-let-yuan-appreciate.html
Yuan forwards recovered from their
steepest slide in 22 months on optimism policy makers will heed
a call by the U.S. urging China to allow a stronger currency.
Government bonds were little changed.  Chinese officials understand it is in the interests both of
domestic growth and global economic stability to let the yuan
strengthen, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in an
interview Oct. 23, a day before he visited China to meet with
Vice Premier Wang Qishan. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards
fell 0.8 percent on Oct. 22, the most since December 2008.  “The market is probably expecting some positive reaction
from China as a result of this meeting,” said Nizam Idris, a
currency strategist with UBS AG in Singapore. “It’s probably
also a technical rebound from the NDF’s slide on Friday.”  The contracts climbed 0.5 percent to 6.4410 per dollar as
of 5:32 p.m. in Hong Kong, reflecting bets the currency will
strengthen 3.4 percent from the spot rate of 6.6581, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank set the reference rate at 6.6729 per
dollar, little changed from 6.6759 on Oct. 22.  Geithner made his comments a day before an unscheduled
visit to China for talks with Wang on ties between the two
nations. In April, Geithner made an unexpected trip to China to
meet Wang. About two months later, China scrapped the yuan’s peg
against the dollar after having kept the currency stable for
almost two years during the global financial crisis.  “We don’t know what they discussed during the meeting,”
said Idris. “But perhaps we can refer to what happened after
the last unscheduled visit.”  Bonds Stable  Government bonds were little changed as traders are waiting
for the central bank bill auction result tomorrow.  The People’s Bank of China will sell 40 billion yuan ($6
billion) of one-year bills tomorrow, according to a statement on
its website today. It raised the interest rate on three-month
bills by 20 basis points on Oct. 21, the first time since June
10.  “It’s hard to predict how much the PBOC will raise the
yields even though we are sure it will definitely go up,” said
Guo Caomin, a bond analyst at Industrial Bank Co. in Shanghai.
“No one dares to buy or sell at this time.”  The yield on the 3.28 percent note due August 2020 was
little changed at 3.60 percent, according to the China Interbank
Bond Market. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The central bank has kept the one-year bill yield unchanged
at 2.0929 percent since June 8.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  