-- ZTE to Buy $3 Billion in Components From Qualcomm, Other Vendors
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2010-10-25T21:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-25/zte-will-buy-3-billion-in-components-from-qualcomm-vendors-over-3-years.html
ZTE Corp ., China’s second-biggest
maker of telephone equipment, said it plans to buy $3 billion in
semiconductor parts from  Qualcomm Inc .,  Texas Instruments Inc .,
 Freescale Semiconductor Inc .,  Altera Corp . and  Broadcom Corp .  The purchases would happen over three years and are aimed
at helping ZTE improve sales to telecommunications customers in
the U.S., according to an e-mail today from the Shenzhen,
southern China-based company. The U.S. has become the focus of
ZTE’s efforts to boost business, including agreements to sell
two devices through Verizon Wireless.  “ZTE is committed to strengthening close ties with U.S.
chip vendors in order to develop highly competitive telecom
solutions for the U.S. market,” the company said.  The company is trying to gain acceptance as a vendor in the
U.S., where sales may have stalled because of concern that using
Chinese equipment in the U.S. communications infrastructure
jeopardizes national security. Four lawmakers including Senator
 Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican, asked the Federal Communications
Commission in an Oct. 19 letter to consider the risk of allowing
ZTE and Huawei Technologies Co. to sell networking equipment in
the U.S. The letter cited “potential for foreign espionage.”  ZTE responded then by saying it has long operated in the
U.S.  “ZTE buys over $2 billion in technology equipment annually
from U.S. chip manufacturers and suppliers,” Bruce Reisenauer,
president of ZTE Solutions, said Oct. 19.  The company has bought more than $4 billion worth of
intellectual property rights and products from U.S. vendors to
date, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Olga Kharif  in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 