-- Medvedev Tells Gazprom to Collect Ukraine's Gas Debt
-- Torrey Clark
-- 2008-11-20T16:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-11-20/medvedev-tells-gazprom-to-collect-ukraine-s-gas-debt-update1-.html

          
          
             Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
ordered OAO Gazprom to recover a $2.4 billion debt owed by
Ukraine for natural-gas deliveries, days after the world's
biggest gas producer hailed progress on a new supply accord.  
 ``This is a lot of money for any state and for any company,
including Gazprom,'' Medvedev told Gazprom Chief Executive
Officer  Alexei Miller  at a meeting in Moscow today, according to
state-run broadcaster Vesti-24.  
 Gazprom may raise the price it charges Ukraine for gas to
more than $400 per 1,000 cubic meters from Jan. 1, Miller told
Medvedev during the meeting, according to e-mailed comments from
Gazprom.  
 All the necessary documents for a long-term contract are
ready on the corporate side, while  Ukraine 's debt is yet to be
resolved, Miller said.  
 Ukraine should either pay the debt voluntarily or be forced
to clear it, Medvedev said. Gazprom, which has cut gas supplies
to Ukraine twice in pricing disputes since 2006, said Nov. 11
that ``significant progress'' had been made on a long-term
agreement for shipments to Ukraine and talks on pricing for next
year would be completed in the near future.  
 Gazprom's decision to reduce flows to Ukraine at the start
of 2006 and in March this year raised concerns in the European
Union that its energy imports from  Russia  weren't reliable.
Ukraine's state-run NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, which ships a quarter
of  Europe 's annual gas supplies, said in September it would
guarantee stability of gas flows to Europe across its territory
from Russia.  
 At the time, it still had no contract for shipments from
Gazprom for Ukraine's domestic use in 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Walters in Moscow 
 gwalters1@bloomberg.net ;
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Guy Collins at 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        