-- Shell, Turkish Companies to Examine Pipeline Projects
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2008-11-20T12:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-11-20/shell-turkish-companies-to-examine-pipeline-projects-update1-.html

          
          
             Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe's
largest  oil company , and Turkish state-owned oil and natural gas
companies agreed to examine possible gas exploration projects
and exports of the fuel from  Iraq .  
 Shell will work with Boru Hatlari ile Petrol Tasima AS, the
state-run pipeline company known as Botas, and Turkiye
Petrolleri AO, the state-run oil company, to develop projects,
the company said today.  
 ``These infrastructure projects may enable countries such
as Iraq to export its future surplus gas to Turkey and further
into Europe once Iraq's domestic demand has been satisfied,''
The Hague-based Shell said in a statement.  
 Shell in September signed a gas-capturing and marketing
agreement with Iraq, holder of the world's third-largest oil
reserves, to help to stop flaring of about 700 million standard
cubic feet of the fuel a day. Shell is operating in Iraq for the
first time since its share in the Basra Petroleum Co. was seized
by the government in 1973.  
 Shell's plans in Turkey will compete with projects led by
 BP Plc (BP/)  and StatoilHydro ASA, OAO Gazprom,  OMV AG (OMV)  and other
companies to deliver gas from Azerbaijan, Iran, Iraq and Egypt
to Europe.  
 ``Iraq, with its vast gas resources, has the potential to
become an important gas producing nation,'' Turkey's Energy
Minister Hilmi Guler said today in Shell's statement. ``We have
our own growing domestic gas needs and are looking at ways of
diversifying our energy supplies.''  
 Shell was the first and only private international company
to import gas and market it in Turkey, Charles Watson, Chief
Executive Officer of Shell Energy Europe, said in the statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Guy Collins at   guycollins@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        