-- Congress eyes bond insurers amid housing crisis
-- By  Kevin Drawbaugh
-- Thu Feb 14, 2008 5:18pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/14/businesspro-bondinsurers-congress-dc-idUSN1448757820080214

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The widening U.S. housing finance 
crisis prompted calls in Congress on Thursday for new scrutiny 
of bond insurers and credit raters, while Senate Democrats 
offered a rescue plan for troubled homeowners. 

  As the government scrambled to deal with a credit crunch 
now spreading beyond its origins in the mortgage market, New 
York Sen. Charles Schumer called for federal regulation of the 
$2.4-trillion bond insurance industry.  Major bond insurers such as MBIA Inc ( MBI.N ) and Ambac 
Financial Group Inc ABK.N are a source of growing concern on 
Wall Street as their credit ratings come under pressure due to 
their involvement with risky mortgage-backed securities.  "I am considering introducing legislation that would 
regulate them," Schumer said at a Senate Banking Committee 
hearing focused on the state of the economy and the markets.  In a separate hearing in the House of Representatives, New 
York Gov. Eliot Spitzer told lawmakers problems must be fixed 
to avoid a "financial tsunami." New York regulators are working 
on a plan to help bond insurers.  Also on Thursday, Moody's Investors Service cut its top 
"AAA" ratings on FGIC Corp's bond insurance arm, citing its 
weakened capital position. FGIC is owned by a group that 
includes mortgage insurer PMI Group Inc PMI.N and private 
equity.  Fears of wider economic damage resulting from problems in 
the little-known bond insurance business stem from its role in 
backing municipal bonds issued by local governments to finance 
essential public projects such as schools, roads and parks.  For many years, bond insurers specialized solely in 
standing behind municipal bonds, but they moved increasingly 
into the mortgage-backed debt business during the housing boom 
and now many of the securities they insured are in trouble.
  EXPOSURE SEEN  A senior SEC official told lawmakers that some large 
investment banks have "material" exposure to bond insurer risk, 
but the SEC considers their capital and liquidity sufficient.  The agency is looking closely at bond insurer risk at five 
large U.S. investment banks under its jurisdiction: Bear 
Stearns Co Inc BSC.N, Goldman Sachs Group Inc ( GS.N ), Lehman 
Brothers Holdings Inc LEH.N, Merrill Lynch & Co Inc MER.N 
and Morgan Stanley ( MS.N ).  Schumer said the legislation he may introduce would 
regulate bond insurers "when they do get involved in other 
types of activities -- at least have some kind of federal 
oversight greater than we have now."  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, testifying before 
the committee, responded cautiously to Schumer's proposal.  "I am not quite sure which additional powers you would have 
in mind," said the Fed chairman, pointing to a deeper problem 
of distressed assets underlying the securities that the bond 
insurers chose to stand behind.  "The best way to address this issue is strengthening the 
underlying economy," said Bernanke.  In an attempt to do just that, the Fed has slashed interest 
rates since late last year and Congress has passed an economic 
stimulus package, which was signed into law on Wednesday.  Senate Democrats offered another package on Thursday, this 
one more focused on the housing market's problems.
  HOUSING PROPOSAL  Under the bill, state and local housing finance agencies 
could use more money from revenue bonds to help mortgage 
borrowers; businesses would get a tax break involving past 
losses; consumer groups would get $200 million in fresh funds 
to counsel borrowers facing foreclosure; and local governments 
would get $4 billion in grants to ease foreclosure woes.  Although the housing plan is clearly a Democratic project, 
Stanford Group Co financial services policy analyst Jaret 
Seiberg said it is backed by several influential lawmakers and 
it will be difficult for Republicans not to support it.  "We believe it will be very difficult to stop this 
legislation," said Seiberg, adding that if the package gets 
through Congress, the issue will become whether President 
George W. Bush would veto a bill aimed at helping troubled 
homeowners.  As the bill was being offered, officials of the Securities 
and Exchange Commission told lawmakers in the hearings that the 
agency is considering requiring credit rating agencies to 
differentiate between corporate bonds and structured finance 
products, as well as make disclosures on past ratings.  A final report on credit raters is expected by early 
summer, said SEC Chairman Christopher Cox.  Cox said the SEC is reviewing the accounting treatment of 
securitized subprime loans, capital adequacy at big investment 
banks and the "quality of issuer disclosure" by companies 
involved in structured finance.  The SEC is also keeping a close eye on money market funds, 
which have been hit by a devaluation in their assets.  Cox said the SEC has more than 36 investigations underway 
in cases involving the mortgage markets.  Separately, the FBI said on Thursday it had recently opened 
two more investigations similar to the SEC's, making 16 
corporations now being probed as part of the FBI's inquiry into 
subprime mortgage industry fraud.  (Reporting by Kevin Drawbaugh, Patrick Rucker, Rachelle 
Younglai,  John Poirier ,  Karey Wutkowski ,  Donna Smith ; Editing 
by Tim Dobbyn)