-- SEC seeks more financial transparency
-- By  Rachelle Younglai
-- Thu Feb 14, 2008 11:44am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/14/businesspro-usa-subprime-sec-dc-idUSN1444433020080214

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The Securities and Exchange 
Commission aims to increase the transparency of Wall Street's 
disclosures and has more than 3 dozen investigations underway 
amid the fallout from the subprime mortgage crisis, Chairman 
Christopher Cox said on Thursday. 

  Investors have been "deeply affected" by market chaos 
unleashed by subprime lending and securitization practices, Cox 
told a Senate Banking Committee hearing on the state of U.S. 
financial markets.  "Because these law enforcement investigations are underway, 
specific details remain confidential. It has not yet been 
determined in any particular case whether or not securities 
laws were broken," Cox said.  Separately, the FBI said on Thursday it had recently opened 
two more investigations for a total of 16 corporations now 
being probed as part of its crackdown on subprime mortgage 
industry fraud.  Cox said the SEC is reviewing the accounting treatment of 
securitized subprime loans, capital adequacy at big investment 
banks, the "quality of issuer disclosure" by companies involved 
in structured finance and the role of credit rating companies 
in subprime valuations.  Cox said the SEC is also keeping a close eye on money 
market funds, which have been hit by a devaluation in their 
assets.  "While we have seen some instances of funds requiring 
infusions of capital from the corporate parents of fund 
advisers, we are not aware of any money market fund that is 
threatened with having to re-price below $1," Cox said.  Money market funds are normally considered very safe 
short-term investments but several of them have come under 
pressure over the past few months because of the credit crisis 
and their exposure to securities related to subprime mortgages.  The SEC has set up an agency-wide subprime task force and 
is reviewing the role of the credit rating agencies, which have 
been accused of assigning top ratings to structured finance 
products like mortgage-backed securities without conducting due 
diligence.  The SEC is trying to determine whether the credit raters' 
role in bringing residential mortgage-backed securities and 
collateralized debt obligations to market impaired their 
ability to be impartial in their ratings.  The SEC is considering requiring credit rating agencies to 
differentiate between corporate bonds and structured finance 
products as well as make disclosures on past ratings.  A final report on the credit rating firms is expected by 
early summer, said Cox. He testified along with Treasury 
Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben 
Bernanke on the state of the economy and financial markets.  The last time the chairmen of the three entities appeared 
together before the Senate Banking Committee was in the 
aftermath of the September 11, 2001 attacks that roiled global 
markets.  (Reporting by Rachelle Younglai; Editing by  Tim Dobbyn )