-- Saks Loss Narrows as Luxury-Goods Focus Boosts Sales
-- Cotten Timberlake
-- 2007-08-21T20:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-21/saks-loss-narrows-as-luxury-goods-focus-boosts-sales-update3-.html

          
          
             Saks Inc. (SKS)  posted a smaller loss than
analysts estimated as a focus on selling luxury goods and
shedding mid-price stores showed signs of paying off. The
company forecast sales gains for the rest of the year.  
 The  net loss  narrowed to $24.6 million, or 17 cents a
share, for the second quarter ended Aug. 4, the company said
today in a statement. A year earlier, Saks had a loss of $51.9
million, or 38 cents, on stock-option expenses and markdowns.  
 Saks had costs of $4.3 million related to consolidation and
the sale of mid-price department stores as it focused on stores
catering to wealthy customers. The strategy began paying off in
September 2006, when monthly sales gains tripled at stores open
at least a year. Saks said second-quarter revenue rose 15
percent, maintaining the trend.  
 ``They are doing more full-price selling,'' Patricia Edwards, a Seattle-based money manager at Wentworth, Hauser &
Violich, said in an interview. ``That is impressive and speaks
to the resilience of the high-end luxury customers.'' The firm
holds Saks  shares  among the $11.9 billion in assets it manages.  
 Saks, which sells $1,090 Missoni dresses and $5,900 Bottega
Veneta handbags, said revenue rose to $694.1 million as sales at
stores open at least a year jumped 13.2 percent.  
 ``They continue to build for the future and are making
progress down the path to improvement,'' Edwards said. ``The
one-time expenses were reasonable.''  
 Analysts' Estimates  
 Costs for employee retention, severance pay and writing
down some assets accounted for most one-time expenses, Saks
said, indicating a loss of 14 cents a share excluding those
items. Analysts estimated a loss of 16 cents a share before one-time costs and gains, the average of 12 surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The company forecast same-store sales gains in the high-single digits, on a percentage basis, for the remainder of the
year compared with an earlier projection of ``mid-to-high single
digits.'' Chief Executive Officer Stephen Sadove said on a
conference call he has seen no slowdown in luxury spending.  
 ``I feel very good about the luxury sector,'' Sadove said
on the call. ``Wall Street bonuses are going to be lower this
year and we are going to have to watch it very carefully and
react if there is a slowdown. We haven't seen it.''  
 Margin Gains  
 Gross margin, or the percentage of sales left after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, improved to 35.6 percent
from 32.9 percent. The company said that gross margin would be
little changed for the rest of the year.  
 Saks shares fell $1.11, or 6.2 percent, to $16.83 at 4 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Edwards attributed
the decline to the gross margin forecast. The stock has fallen
5.6 percent this year.  
 The retailer owns 54 Saks Fifth Avenue and 49 Saks Off
Fifth stores. It also has 87 Club Libby Lu shops that cater to
pre-teen girls, with 25 of them within department stores.  
 Sadove has focused on office wear and Saks brands for women
ages 35 to 55 to increase sales.  
 Under Sadove, 56, Saks offered more goods for traditional
``classic'' shoppers, who prefer a tailored look, after pursuing
younger shoppers with contemporary sportswear. New clothing
carrying its own brand was introduced last year.  
 Saks renovated its Beverly Hills,  California , store earlier
this year, remodeling and expanding handbag shops for several
existing vendors, including Gucci, Prada, Chanel, and Louis
Vuitton, and added a Fendi shop, spokeswoman Julia Bentley said.
Revenue for this store was up more than 20 percent in the second
quarter, she said.  
 Outpacing Rivals  
 Saks' same-store sales increase outpaced Nordstrom Inc.'s
growth of 5.9 percent and a 7 percent gain at Neiman Marcus
Group Inc. The figures include online and catalog shopping.  
 Former Saks Chairman Brad Martin in 2005 began selling off
the regional department stores to focus on the luxury division.  
 Saks completed the sale of five chains, including Carson
Pirie Scott, to Bon-Ton Stores Inc. in March 2006 for after-tax
proceeds of $1 billion.  
 Belk Inc. bought the company's Proffitt's and McRae's
stores for $622 million in July 2005 and its 38 Parisian stores
for $285 million in October 2006.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in New York at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at   mnol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        