-- China Life, Ping An Pay $1.4 Bln for Minsheng Stock
-- Luo Jun
-- 2007-03-19T04:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-19/china-life-ping-an-pay-1-4-bln-for-minsheng-stock-update3-.html

          
          
             China Life Insurance Co. (2628)  and  Ping
An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318) , the nation's two largest insurers,
paid a combined 10.8 billion  yuan  ($1.4 billion) for about 10
percent of China Minsheng Banking Corp., whose shares more than
tripled last year.  
 China Life and Ping An each paid 5.4 billion yuan for 600
million  shares , Minsheng Bank said in a statement today. The
Beijing-based lender raised 18.16 billion yuan selling 2
billion shares to seven corporate investors.  
 Chinese insurance companies are investing their 599
billion yuan of cash to help bolster profits as demand for
policies cools. China Life today said insurance premium growth
sputtered in the first two months of this year.  
 ``China's insurance companies have too much money and they
have a relatively long investment horizon, so the banking
sector presents the best opportunity,'' said Olive Xia, a
Shanghai-based analyst at Core Pacific-Yamaichi International.
Buying into Minsheng Bank also enables  China  Life and Ping An
to expand their distribution networks, she said.  
 Cao Qingyang, a spokesman for China Life, said Minsheng is
already helping the insurer sell policies, adding that volumes
so far have been ``relatively small.'' Ping An spokesman Sheng Ruisheng called the Minsheng stake a ``pure financial
investment'' and said the companies currently have no plans for
further cooperation.  
 Minsheng Shares Jump  
 Minsheng Bank, which has about 260 outlets, said yesterday
2006  profit  rose 43 percent as the fastest economic growth in
11 years fueled demand for loans. It forecast a 38 percent gain
in profit this year, to 5.3 billion yuan.  
 Shares in Minsheng jumped 9.6 percent today at the 11:30
lunch break in Shanghai, advancing along with other banks after
the central bank yesterday raised  interest rates . The stock is
up 19 percent this year after surging 252 percent in 2006.  
 Minsheng, founded 11 years ago by 59 investors including
pig-feed tycoon Liu Yonghao, averaged 40 percent annual gains
in profit in the past five years. It has carved out a niche
among medium-sized companies such as China Small and Medium
Enterprise Investment Co. and East Hope Group.  
 China's insurers are allowed to hold stakes of 5 percent
or more in a maximum of two banks. China Life's and Ping An's
4.99 percent holdings in Minsheng Bank fall just below that
threshold.  
 Finance Empire  
 Shenzhen-based Ping An is seeking to build a financial
services group that will get two-thirds of its revenue from
banking, securities and asset management. For the six months
ended June 30, those businesses accounted for about 8 percent
of Ping An's  net income .  
 The government in 2005 allowed insurers to buy stakes in
commercial banks, prompting Ping An and China life to embark on
purchasing sprees.  
 On March 15, Ping An said 2006 profit probably jumped more
than 50 percent, driven by investment returns from the
strongest stock market rally in at least a decade. China's
benchmark stock index soared 121 percent last year.  
 The company last year bought 89 percent of Shenzhen
Commercial Bank and raised its stake in  Shanghai  Pudong
Development Bank Co. to 4.94 percent from 1.8 percent. Last
month, HSBC Holdings Plc said Ping An was buying its 27 percent
stake in subsidiary Ping An Bank.  
 Investment Returns  
 China Life last year bought a 20 percent stake in
Guangdong Development Bank for 5.67 billion yuan, gaining
access to 500 banking outlets to sell its insurance and
investment products.  
 The nation's insurers had 2 trillion yuan of assets as of
Dec. 31, of which 1.18 trillion yuan was invested in stocks,
mutual funds and bonds, according to China Insurance Regulatory
Commission. They had 599 billion yuan of cash parked in banks.  
 Slowing premium growth is adding pressure on insurers to
use those funds to prop up returns. China Life today said
insurance premiums rose 13 percent in the first two months of
2007 from a year earlier. That's a third of the growth pace in
the year-ago period.  
 China's insurers returned 5.8 percent on their investments
last year, 2.2 percentage points more than in 2005, according
to the China Insurance Regulatory Commission. The companies
profited from a doubling in stock prices on the mainland.  
 Insurers own 30.5 percent of the yuan shares of Industrial
and Commercial  Bank of China  Ltd., the nation's biggest lender,
and 23.2 percent of Bank of China's, according to the regulator.  
 Other Buyers  
 China this year allowed banks to apply for permits to set
up insurance units, ending a 14-year-old ban. Bank of
Communications Ltd. and China Construction Bank Corp. are among
lenders which have applied with the government to set up
insurance ventures.  
 Shanghai Jiante Life Technology Co., New Hope Investment
Co., China Fanhai Holdings Co. and Everbright Securities Co.
also bought into Minsheng Bank's private placement, today's
statement said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at 
 jluo@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ping An Insurance headquarters stand in Beijing, Aug. 15, 2006.  Photographer: Lucas Schifres/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A cyclist passes the headquarters of China Minsheng Bank in Beijing, Aug. 8, 2006.  Photographer: Doug Kanter/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
