-- Japan land prices rise in 2007 but honeymoon over
-- By  Edwina Gibbs
-- Mon Mar 24, 2008 6:35am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/24/businesspro-japan-economy-land-dc-idUST35175620080324

 

 TOKYO  (Reuters) - Japanese land prices rose for a second 
straight year in 2007 on robust demand for prime commercial 
property, but analysts say the honeymoon is already over with 
the market hit hard by tighter credit conditions. 

  A major slowdown in the flow of money into Japan's real 
estate market began with stricter oversight from the nation's 
financial authorities late last year and has further dried up 
amid the global credit crisis.  "If you talk to companies and we've talked to about 15 in 
the last two to three weeks, they will either tell you that 
land prices are coming off or that the increases have stopped," 
said Andreas Schuster, property analyst at CLSA.  "The lack of financing has sharpened dramatically even in 
the past few weeks. Developers are holding back on land 
purchases and funds are finding it hard to get non-recourse 
loans."  Industry officials say investors are now looking to better 
opportunities in the United States and Europe to pick up 
distressed assets, while Japan's battered real estate 
investment trusts are seen ripe for a shake-out as they 
struggle to secure quality properties.  Japanese real estate stocks .IRLTY.T have slid over 40 
percent in value since mid-2007, also hurt by worries that new 
building codes will dampen construction, and that stagnant wage 
growth and a shaky economic outlook has hurt demand.  Apartment builders have suffered most, and sales of new 
apartments in Tokyo fell to a 15-year low for February.  In further signs of a darkening outlook for smaller 
companies and funds, property investor Reicof Co Ltd 8941.OJ 
last week became the first listed Japanese firm to collapse 
from tighter lending in the wake of the U.S. subprime crisis.  CLSA's Schuster said he expects a mild decrease in land 
prices for 2008 while Yuji Otani, an analyst at Credit Suisse, 
said the stock market is pricing in a 15-20 percent decline in 
apartment prices and that Japan's real estate market could be 
returning to 2005 levels.  The last two years of rises in Japan's land prices follow 
15 years of decline after Japan's asset bubble peaked in 1990.  The average nationwide commercial land price climbed 3.8 
percent last year, which follows a 2.3 percent increase in 
2006, according to an annual survey by the government's land 
ministry.  Last year also saw a number of high-profile property deals, 
including Morgan Stanley's ( MS.N ) $2.4 billion purchase of 13 
hotels from All Nippon Airways ( 9202.T ).  But prices of business-use properties nationwide are only 
around 30 percent of their peak in 199O.  Residential land prices rose 1.3 percent in 2007, after 
edging up 0.1 percent a year earlier, with prices in main urban 
areas making steady gains although the pace of growth in the 
most popular areas of Tokyo has fallen.  Major property developers like Mitsubishi Estate Co Ltd 
( 8802.T ) and Mitsui Fudosan Co Ltd ( 8801.T ), however, are 
expected by many analysts to weather this year's property storm 
well, bolstered by their strong leasing businesses.  Tight supply of premium office space in big cities like 
Tokyo has meant rock-bottom vacancy rates, allowing them to 
raise rents.  (Additional reporting by Noriyuki Hirata and Fumiya Mizuno; 
Editing by Chris Gallagher)