-- Hudong Heavy Cleared for Stock Sale to Buy Shipyard
-- Josephine Lau
-- 2007-06-21T14:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-06-21/hudong-heavy-cleared-for-stock-sale-to-buy-shipyard-update1-.html

          
          
             Hudong Heavy Machinery Co. (600150)  received
approval to sell 12 billion yuan ($1.6 billion) of stock to fund
the acquisition of  China 's biggest shipyard from its parent.  
 China's largest maker of diesel ship engines won approval
from the China Securities Regulatory Commission today, Shanghai-
based Hudong Heavy said in a statement filed to the  Shanghai Stock
Exchange . Its parent, China State Shipbuilding Corp., will buy 59
percent of the stock and a group of state-owned companies will buy
the rest, said a January 29 company statement.  
 The acquisition of  Shanghai  Waigaoqiao Shipbuilding Co. will
give Hudong Heavy one-fifth of China's shipbuilding capacity as
the country seeks to double output, overtaking  South Korea  as the
world's biggest builder of vessels by 2015. Orders for carriers
are surging on demand in China, the world's biggest importer of
aluminum, steel, copper and coal, all of which travel by ship.  
 ``The parent has made it very clear that it intends to make
Hudong Heavy the flagship of its shipbuilding assets,'' Stephen Zhou, an analyst in Shanghai for BNP Paribas Peregrine said on May
28. He rates Hudong Heavy's stock ``buy.''  
 Shares of Hudong Heavy have more than tripled since the
company announced the share sale on Jan. 29, compared with a 62.9
percent gain in China's benchmark CSI 300 Index in the same period.  
 Hudong Heavy will sell as many as 400 million yuan-
denominated A-shares at 30  yuan  apiece in exchange for 9 billion
yuan in yard assets and 3 billion yuan in cash. The cash will be
used to upgrade technology, boosting profit and competitiveness,
according to the company's 2006 annual report, published March 26.  
 The acquisitions will lead to a tripling of earnings per
share, BNP Paribas's Zhou said in a March 1 report. Per-share
earnings will double, according to Kate Zhu and Andy Meng,
analysts at Morgan Stanley who rate the shares ``overweight.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in Beijing at 
 lspears2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at   nicojohnson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        