-- Apple IPad Will Need Content as Cool as It Is: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- Rich Jaroslovsky
-- 2010-01-28T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-28/apple-ipad-will-need-content-as-cool-as-it-is-rich-jaroslovsky.html

          
          
             With all due respect to Steve Jobs,
he chose the wrong name for Apple Inc.’s new iPad.  
 A far better name would be iWonder. As in, it certainly is
a consumer-tech wonder. And also as in, I wonder if the content
providers who may determine its success are prepared to take
full advantage of it?  
 The half-hour or so I spent playing with the iPad at its
San Francisco unveiling yesterday was much too short a time to
evaluate it authoritatively. What I can say is that it’s fast,
beautiful and loaded with potential.  
 The half-inch-thin iPad looks something like an iPod Touch
on steroids. While it uses the iPhone/iPod Touch operating
system -- meaning it runs just about all the 140,000 or so
applications already written for those pocket-sized devices --
you can sense a little Mac DNA as well in the machined aluminum
back. It feels solid and substantial in your hand -- and also,
at about a pound and a half, is considerably heavier than a
typical e-book reader, one of its core functions.  
 Indeed, the iPad is about consumption of media in all its
forms, from storing and viewing your photos to watching high-
definition movies on the lovely 9.7-inch touch screen.  
 I was struck by its speed and responsiveness. In the photo
application, for instance, I could race through hundreds of
photos in a blur. Apps originally written for the iPhone, such
as Electronic Arts Inc.’s car-racing game Need for Speed Shift,
looked terrific when expanded to fit the iPad screen. They may
look better still once developers begin writing specifically to
the new dimensions and the capabilities of the custom Apple-
designed chip that powers the unit.  
 Turning the Page  
 Books in the new iBooks application look much more paper-
like than they do on devices such as Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle or
Barnes & Noble Inc.’s Nook. Turning a page is so smoothly
animated that if you stop in the middle of the process, you see
both the content of the page being turned and that of the new
page peeking out from underneath, just as if you were holding a
physical book.  
 While Apple is hardly known for the value pricing of its
products, the iPad may be the exception. It will be available in
six models, with the least expensive -- including 16 gigabytes
of flash-memory storage and Wi-Fi connectivity -- starting at
just $499. It and two other Wi-Fi models with more memory go on
sale in March.  
 3G Connectivity  
 A month later, three more iPads will go on sale, adding
connectivity over AT&T Inc.’s 3G wireless network in the U.S.
The top-of-the-line model, with both 3G and 64 GB storage, will
cost $829. AT&T will offer no-contract data plans costing $14.99
for up to 250 megabytes per month, or $29.99 for an all-you-can-
eat plan.  
 At those prices, and if the iPad also fulfills Jobs’s
battery-life promises -- 10 hours of heavy-duty use, and even
longer for lower-impact functions like listening to music --
Apple will have delivered a true achievement. Then the question
will be whether the publishing industry, which up to now hasn’t
been known for forward thinking, will do the same.  
 Will book publishers, for example, get to work producing
added-value interactive versions that include author interviews
and DVD-style extras to take advantage of the iPad’s multimedia
capabilities? Or will they be content to use Apple’s new iBooks
store to sell the same plain-vanilla e-books they currently
produce, in hopes of simply lessening their dependence on
Amazon.com?  
 Life Preserver  
 What about newspaper and magazine publishers? These, after
all, are the same geniuses who decided to give away their
product for free, then expressed shock when their audiences
ended up valuing it no more highly than they did. Will they now
recognize the life preserver Apple has thrown them and produce
versions optimized for the new platform, with features that will
excite their customers and re-engage their advertisers?  
 To a larger extent than with most of Apple’s other
products, the iPad’s fate is out of the company’s hands. Without
compelling new content, it risks having no reason to be.  
 If that’s the case, it may turn out that Apple’s decision
to bring iWork, its Mac productivity suite, to the iPad will be
crucial. The three iWork programs -- a word processor,
spreadsheet and presentation software -- will sell for $9.99
each. With them and a Bluetooth keyboard, or perhaps the new
combination keyboard-dock that Apple showed off this week, the
iPad becomes a sophisticated alternative to inexpensive netbook
computers running Microsoft Corp.’s Windows software.  
 While that might still sell a fair number of iPads, it
would signal failure in the ambitious goals Jobs has set out for
the device. To be truly “revolutionary,” which was the word he
used to describe it, the iPad needs content as cool as it is.  
 (Rich Jaroslovsky is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in New York at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Apple iPad tablet is pictured in this undated handout photograph provided to the media on Jan. 27, 2010. Source: Apple Inc./via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                         Jan. 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Rich Jaroslovsky talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about Apple Inc.'s iPad.
    Apple, seeking to revolutionize the publishing business in the same way the iPod transformed the music industry, unveiled yesterday a tablet computer starting at $499, a price that was 50 percent lower than some analysts predicted. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
