-- Obama, Alito Dis Each Other in Free Speech Brawl: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-01-29T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-28/obama-alito-dis-each-other-in-free-speech-brawl-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             Whether you think it outrageous or
terrific that the U.S. Supreme Court last week ruled corporate
funds can pay for political ads, or if you don’t much care,
there is humor to be mined in a flap the decision created this
week.  
 The case is about free speech in politics, right? But when
President Barack Obama slammed the decision during his State of
the Union speech, conservatives (who mostly like the ruling)
ripped him for speaking so freely.  
 Free speech has its limits, even in politics, it would
seem.  
 And yet, following a Republican tradition, ex-President
George W. Bush talked down the federal bench all the time. It
was a campaign theme for him to trash “activist judges.”  
 Apparently it’s fine for presidents or candidates to
excoriate rulings when the justices aren’t in the same room.  
 But it’s an appalling breach of decorum for the president
to do it right to the justices’ faces. Never before had a
president used this constitutionally mandated and, now,
nationally televised speech to do so. Why, it’s downright rude.  
 Six of the nine justices, all of them robed, occupied seats
roughly beneath Obama’s nose, in full view of the cameras. As is
their custom, they sat there stone-faced throughout the talk to
show that they are above the partisan fray.  
 When Obama delivered lines that brought Democrats or even
Republicans in the chamber to their feet in thunderous applause,
the justices hardly even blinked.  
 All the justices sat expressionless. All, save one.  
 Alito’s Creased Brow  
 When Obama predicted the ruling would “open the floodgates
for special interests,” Justice Samuel Alito pulled his chin
in, closed his eyes, shook his head “no” and creased his brow.  
 Then he mumbled something which, to untrained lip readers
such as myself, looked like “that’s not true.” Whatever he
said, his head shaking made clear he thought the president had
said something wrong.  
 However inaudible, it was the judicial equivalent of
Representative Joe Wilson shouting “You lie” when Obama
addressed Congress in September on health care.  
 So while the right slammed Obama for speaking his mind, the
left took out after Alito for mouthing his.  
 That was “a serious and substantive breach of protocol,”
Glenn Greenwald wrote for Salon. It “only further undermines
the credibility of the court” for a justice to show himself to
be so partisan.  
 Court Precedent  
 Isn’t it a tad late to worry about that?  
 We don’t know exactly which part of Obama’s remarks Alito
was reacting to. It could have been the claim that the ruling
eviscerated 100 years of law. Or it might have been the part
about floodgates opening for special interests.  
 In any case, the 5-4 ruling didn’t completely overturn a
century’s worth of restrictions. But it did throw out what had
been the practice for decades under federal law and court
precedent.  
 Whether last week’s ruling will open floodgates of
corporate spending is anyone’s guess. No question that companies
and, presumably, unions can now run pre-election ads. And they
no longer have to form political action committees and seek
contributions from individuals to do it.  
 They can pour corporate funds into political advertising if
they want, though they still can’t contribute directly to a
candidate’s campaign fund.  
 And this brings us to yet another twist. Conservatives
define a judicial activist as a judge who legislates from the
bench, who tosses out perfectly good laws simply because he
doesn’t like them.  
 Showing Disdain  
 That is exactly what the conservative wing of the court,
plus swing voter Anthony Kennedy, did when it ruled in the
election case last week.  
 The justices showed disdain, not the much-heralded
deference, to elected lawmakers who held hearings and found
facts and hammered away for years to fashion the law that five
justices so cavalierly set aside. And the court did it even
though no one asked it to.  
 Not content with the mundane task of answering a narrow
question, the justices stretched to reverse practices that
neither side had complained about.  
 And they threw out precedent, too, which they aren’t
supposed to do so casually.  
 How much more activist can you get? This is the opposite of
judicial restraint.  
 Change in Composition  
 As the court’s dissenters pointed out, the only thing that
had changed between the time of the court’s previous rulings on
the topic and the latest one was the composition of the court.
Let’s see. They must be talking about Bush’s two appointees,
which were his answer to judicial activism.  
 Ha!  
 But that’s not all, as the infomercials say. While on the
subject of campaign finance, let’s recall that candidate Obama
pledged to forgo private contributions in favor of public
funding for his campaign but changed his mind when he realized
he could get more money from donors.  
 Isn’t it funny that he now wants laws to restrict corporate
financing of elections?  
 So while I think Obama was confrontational during his
speech and Alito thin-skinned, the irony of it all makes the
whole thing amusing.  
 To top it off, one of Obama’s supposed goals in the speech
was to try to ease partisan sniping, to become a balm during
these contentious times.  
 What a hoot. But come to think of it, it isn’t especially
funny.  
 (Ann Woolner is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        