-- Sullen Republicans Sit Through Obama Stand-Up: Margaret Carlson
-- 
-- 2010-01-29T02:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-28/sullen-republicans-sit-through-obama-stand-up-margaret-carlson.html

          
          
             By the time President  Barack Obama 
delivered the State of the Union, much of the drama had been
leeched away. As with the  Super Bowl , the pre-game run-up dwarfs
the event itself.  
 The press tells the president what he “has to do” in
what’s always the “speech of his life.” The anchors, Diane,
Katie, and Brian, went for lunch and doled out morsels from
their doggie bag the rest of the afternoon.  
 Other authorized tidbits were dished to favored scribes.
Unauthorized ones were dished to lesser journalists by lesser
aides wanting to feel in the middle of things. A diligent
reporter could practically have written the 71-minute speech by
the time Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  had her moment of high honor and
distinct privilege.  
 The remaining drama is all in the demeanor of the president
and that of his audience. Obama was cool without being cold,
with touches of acute frustration that stopped short of sounding
malaise alarms. He shed his usual oratorical cadence to be
chatty and informal. There were moments of ironic detachment
when he acknowledged that the right side of the aisle -- which
actually was to his left -- just wasn’t buying a thing he said,
even when he was spooning ice cream.  
 As for the chamber, Republicans won the award for most
sullen party in a closer contest than you might have expected.
The only consistent thought rippling across the room was, “How
does this cut for my re-election?” After three kicks in the
shins in elections during the past three months, Democrats are
more uneasy than Republicans about the midterms.  
 Eye on Independents  
 Obama was careful not to speak down to Republicans, mindful
to speak up to independents, who thought he’d have this
partisanship thing worked out by now. And he was conscious of
not letting himself or his party off the hook.  
 He noted that he’d had political setbacks, “and some of
them were deserved.” He admonished congressional Democrats that
they enjoy the largest majority in decades. “People expect us
to solve some problems, not run for the hills.”  
 Although his spine was stiff and his brain fully engaged,
Obama clung throughout to his big-hearted delusion that we can
all get along. For most of the evening, Republicans did what
they could, at least in mime, to prove him wrong.  
 Unlike last time, Republicans realized they were sitting in
the U.S. Capitol, not in the boisterous bleachers at a ballgame.
The independents they’ve been attracting in recent elections
don’t like rowdiness. There were no homemade signs, no boos, no
obvious napping.  
 Alito’s Mouth  
 The closest thing to a “You lie” moment came from strange
quarters. The quiet and decorous Justice  Samuel Alito  shook his
head in disbelief, mouthing the words “not true,” when the
president dressed down the  Supreme Court  for overturning a
century of law to allow unlimited amounts of money from
corporations to flow into our politics.  
 While acting more mature, Republicans showed no shift from
being the Party of No, even when Obama reeled off programs they
like -- new nuclear  power plants , offshore oil drilling, tax
credits, an emphasis on jobs over health-care reform, and a
spending freeze.  
 When Obama said the freeze wouldn’t go into effect until
next year, Republicans rustled in their seats, particularly the
perpetually orange-tanned House minority leader, John Boehner ,
whose body language said, That’s just what we expect from you
undisciplined Democrats.  
 Noticing, Obama ad-libbed, “That’s how budgeting works.”  
 Not even his list of tax cuts moved the GOP. Obama’s
audience was as tough as the one  Jay Leno  will face when he
replaces the deposed Conan O’Brien. “I thought I’d get some
applause on that one” he lamented.  
 Sound of Silence  
 The Republicans’ reticence bordered on perilous when, by
their silence, they appeared not to agree with Obama’s bare-
knuckled statement that “we all hated the bank bailout.”  
 It was a good half hour before he brought up health care,
pledging to see it through but without offering a road map to a
conclusion. It was enough to hearten wavering Democrats.
Yesterday Pelosi said she had the votes in the House to pass the
Senate bill, if there were promises in blood that the bad parts
would be fixed.  
 The speech reminded us of the earnest, problem-solving
technocrat Obama is. It was easy to forget him while the
uninspiring Senator  Max Baucus  seemed to be running the country
as Obama’s designated health czar.  
 Inadvertently perhaps, Republicans reminded us why Obama,
with majorities in both houses, can’t get anything done.
Watching them sitting stone-faced in their seats, like the board
of a country club sizing up an aspiring member, it all became
perfectly clear.  
 (Margaret Carlson, author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Margaret Carlson  in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        