-- Doe Run Peru Workers to Hold Strike Vote April 23
-- Alex Emery
-- 2009-04-21T15:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-04-21/doe-run-peru-workers-to-hold-strike-vote-april-23-update1-.html

          
          
             Doe Run Peru ’s smelter workers
plan a strike vote on April 23 to pressure the company to
reopen zinc and lead operations shut for almost two months,
a union official said.  
 Government-brokered talks are scheduled to resume
today in a bid to supply Renco Group Inc.’s smelter with
zinc and lead concentrates after banks cut off financing,
union spokesman Roiberto Guzman said. The smelter continues
to produce refined copper brought from its  Cobriza  mine.  
 “Cabinet Chief Yehude Simon has asked us for 48 hours
to solve this impasse,” Guzman said today in a telephone
interview. “If no solution is forthcoming, we’re going to
paralyze the whole town.”  
 The collapse of metals prices during the global
financial crisis forced about 30 mining companies in the
Peruvian central highlands, the country’s biggest-producing
region of zinc, lead and silver, to seek other buyers after
banks froze Doe Run’s bank accounts on Feb. 24. Doe Run
 Peru ’s zinc and lead mines were shut in late March.  
 Doe Run spokesman Victor Belaunde didn’t immediately
return telephone calls and an e-mail seeking comment. The
cabinet chief’s spokesman Edwin Sarmiento said President
 Alan Garcia  plans to meet with his cabinet tomorrow to
discuss a solution for the smelter.  
 Doe Run workers threaten to block the Central Andean
Highway, which links the capital with Peru’s key mines and
farms.  
 Doe Run on April 2 said a group of mining companies
agreed in government-brokered talks to lend it $75 million
and provide $100 million of concentrates, which would
enable the company to resume operations.  
 Copper and silver prices have dropped at least 35
percent since July on declining demand.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        