-- Thailand Freezes Assets of Billionaire Ex-Premier
-- Beth Jinks
-- 2007-06-11T16:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-06-11/thailand-freezes-assets-of-billionaire-ex-premier-update3-.html

          
          
             Thailand 's billionaire former Prime
Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  and his family had some of their
assets frozen by the junta-installed Assets Examination
Committee today, pending conclusion of probes into dealings.  
 The 11-member committee agreed to freeze some assets
including  bank deposits  related to the Shinawatra family's sale
of its Shin Corp. stake in January 2006, the panel said in a
statement distributed to reporters in Bangkok today.  
 The panel, set up by the military junta that has ruled the
country since overthrowing Thaksin last September, has been
investigating the former premier, his family and members of his
ousted cabinet for violations in project approvals, share sales
and other transactions. Thaksin's wife and brother-in-law are
facing separate charges of  tax fraud  in the criminal court.  
 Thaksin, who has lived abroad in exile, mostly in  London ,
since the coup, was banned from politics for five years by a
Constitutional Tribunal May 30 for election misconduct. The
judges also disbanded his Thai Rak Thai party -- Thailand's
biggest -- and barred 111 of its executives from politics.  
 Thaksin is bidding to buy English Premier League soccer
club  Manchester City . He offered 100 million pounds ($197
million) for the club, the Nation newspaper reported last month.  
 City's board began talks with Thaksin's advisers about the
implications of today's developments on his takeover interest,
the club said in a Newstrack statement.  
 Land Purchase  
 Junta leaders established the committee to probe graft
allegations just five days after seizing power, and gave it
expanded authority to freeze the assets of politicians under
investigation and to probe all projects involving members of the
deposed government.  
 The Assets Examination Committee has so far focused on the
Shinawatras. On May 14, it charged Thaksin and his wife,
Pojamarn Shinawatra, for their involvement in the purchase of
land from the central bank.  
 Army chief Sondhi Boonyarataklin and Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont agreed with the proposal to freeze the Shinawatra's
assets, Krungthep Thurakij newspaper reported on its Web site
earlier today. Thaksin supporters protested in Bangkok June 9,
marching to the army headquarters.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in Bangkok at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        