-- FACTBOX: Lehman plans sale, spin-off of assets
-- 
-- Wed Sep 10, 2008 8:55am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/09/10/us-lehman-sale-idUSN1040161420080910

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc, the fourth-largest U.S. investment bank, announced on 
Wednesday plans to sell a majority stake in its investment 
management division and spin off real estate assets, as it 
posted a preliminary quarterly net loss of $3.9 billion. 

 These are the details of Lehman's plan: SPIN-OFF OF COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE ASSETS -- The bank plans to spin off to its shareholders $25 
billion to $30 billion of its commercial real estate 
portfolio. -- The assets will be separated in a publicly traded 
company in the first quarter of 2009. -- The new company will be called Real Estate Investments 
Global. -- Lehman said the spin-off would strengthen its balance 
sheet and preserve the value of the commercial real estate 
portfolio for shareholders. -- It said REI Global would be appropriately capitalized 
through the transfer of common equity and provision of debt 
financing. -- REI Global's primary focus will be to maximize 
shareholder returns by selling assets or holding them to 
maturity. -- REI Global will not make investments in new assets, and 
any excess cash flow is expected to be returned to 
shareholders. TO SELL INTEREST IN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT UNIT -- The bank plans to sell a 55 percent stake in a subset of 
its investment management division (IMD). -- The subset includes the asset management, private equity 
and wealth management businesses. -- The subset excludes Lehman's middle market institutional 
distribution business and the minority stakes in external hedge 
fund managers. -- Lehman said the sale will enhance its capital base. -- It said the goodwill related to the asset management 
unit Neuberger Berman will be eliminated. That is expected to 
improve Lehman's Tier 1 ratio and generate an increase of more 
than $3 billion in tangible book value. -- The IMD business would continue to operate under the 
Lehman and Neuberger Berman brands, and clients would continue 
to be able to access all of the capabilities of the bank. -- Lehman said it was in advanced discussions with a number 
of potential partners for the IMD business and expects to 
announce the details of a transaction "in due course."
 (Reporting by  Juan Lagorio ; editing by John Wallace)