-- Goldman Sachs Wimps Out in Buck-Breaking Brawl: David Reilly
-- David Reilly
-- 2010-02-03T02:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-02/goldman-sachs-wimps-out-in-buck-breaking-brawl-david-reilly.html

          
          
             Throughout the financial crisis,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  extolled the use of market prices to
value holdings, saying this instills needed discipline. The
firm’s hard-line stance turned to mush, though, when it came
time to end a market myth that fueled 2008’s meltdown.  
 Goldman, along with the mutual-fund industry, argues that
it is fine for money-market funds to use historical values,
rather than market prices, to value holdings. This helps money-
market funds maintain a stable price of $1 a share.  
 The problem: the $1 share price gives investors the false
impression that money-market funds are like bank accounts and so
can’t lose money. That myth was shattered in 2008, and the
resulting panic worsened the credit crunch, forcing the
government to backstop these funds.  
 In the face of opposition from the fund industry and from
firms such as Goldman, the  Securities and Exchange Commission  so
far has failed to force the $3.3 trillion money-market industry
to face reality by requiring the funds to show that their shares
rise and fall in value, even if by miniscule amounts. This
inaction creates the possibility of future market runs and the
need for more government bailouts.  
 At a meeting last week, the SEC endorsed beefed-up
disclosures for money-market funds, along with other technical
changes such as requiring funds to boost cash holdings. It
stopped short, though, of even proposing that funds be required
to post values that wouldn’t always neatly show up as $1 a
share.  
 More Action Needed  
 SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  did say the agency would
continue to evaluate money-market fund reforms, including one to
require floating values.  
 More forceful action is needed, though, especially given
that there have been calls for more than a year, most notably
from a  group  run by former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , to require that money-market funds either use floating
values -- and so prepare investors for the idea that these
instruments can lose money -- or be regulated as if they are
bank products.  
 Recall that the failure of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 
led to losses that caused the $62.5 billion  Reserve Primary
Fund , the oldest U.S. money-market fund, to “break the buck.”
This meant losses fell outside a preset range, so the value of
its shares suddenly fell below the fixed $1 price.  
 Panicky Investors  
 This led to panic as investors realized money-market funds
weren’t as safe as bank accounts and weren’t insured by the
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  The federal government had to
step in and insure money-market investments until September
2009. Fresh memories of the money-market panic even played a
role in the decision to bail out  American International Group
Inc.   
 Appearing before Congress last week,  Thomas Baxter , general
counsel of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, submitted
testimony  saying  that money-market funds couldn’t have weathered
an AIG failure. While those funds held $5 billion of commercial
paper issued by Lehman, they held about $20 billion in notes
issued by AIG, he said.  
 “Losses to these funds would have had potentially
devastating effects on confidence and would have accelerated the
run on financial institutions of all kinds,” according to
Baxter’s testimony.  
 Requiring money-market fund values to float would help head
off such problems. Investors would learn that these investments
are just like other mutual funds, and so can lose money.  
 ‘Wake-Up Call’  
 “Our experience with the Reserve Fund and other funds is a
wake-up call that stable net asset value money funds are
susceptible to runs, and we must more fundamentally rethink how
they are regulated,” SEC Commissioner  Kathleen Casey  said at
last week’s meeting.  
 Casey added that if the funds aren’t to face bank-like
regulation, they need to move to floating values.  
 The industry’s case against floating values is that
investors would pull cash out of money-market funds because they
want investments with a stable value. That, the argument goes,
would deprive American companies of a vital source of funding,
since money-market funds are big buyers of short-term commercial
paper issued by companies.  
 That is a well-worn ploy from the financial-services
industry to counter any change that cuts into business. Banks
used this tactic effectively in 2003 and 2004, for instance, to
pressure the  Financial Accounting Standards Board  to water down
rules that would have limited banks’ ability to use off-balance-
sheet vehicles.  
 Goldman’s Case  
 The result was out-of-control securitization and under-
capitalized banks, both of which played huge roles in crashing
the financial system.  
 Goldman  made the exact same “We can’t crimp companies’
funding” argument in a September comment letter to the SEC on
money-market reforms. Most egregious is that Goldman’s  letter 
argues in favor of using historical prices for money-market fund
values, even though the firm has championed the use of market
values for investments and financial holdings.  
 In an op-ed article last autumn, Goldman Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  wrote, “Markets, and ultimately
investors, are better served with information that more closely
reflects the judgment of the market rather than the historical
price.”  
 Now Blankfein’s boys are trying to play  Jack Nicholson  in
“A Few Good Men,” screaming at the SEC and investors: “You
can’t handle the truth!”  
 Guess what? It’s Goldman and money-market funds who can’t
handle the truth. Investors can, if it means they don’t have to
face more market crashes and government bailouts.  
 ( David Reilly  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Reilly at   dreilly14@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        