-- Abengoa Shuts Spanish Ethanol Plant on Costs, Demand
-- Bill Murray
-- 2007-09-24T16:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-24/abengoa-shuts-spanish-ethanol-plant-on-costs-demand-update2-.html

          
          
             Abengoa SA (ABG/P) ,  Europe 's largest producer
of ethanol, closed a plant in  Spain  because of the rising cost of
raw materials and weak demand.  
 Abengoa blamed the closure on higher grain costs and Spain's
failure to pass a law increasing the use of ethanol, the Madrid-based company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 Demand from the fuel, food and feed industries has added to a
supply shortage of grains and caused wheat costs to more than
double in a year. The shortage is also hurting plans by governments
to encourage the use of ethanol in automobiles to curb dependence
on oil imports and reduce carbon dioxide, one of the gases blamed
for global warming.  
 ``The sentiment is not good right now, and the problem is the
raw material,'' Manuel Coelho, an analyst at Banco BPI, said in a
telephone interview.  
 Abengoa rival Verbio Vereinigte BioEnergie AG recently halted
ethanol production at a plant in  Germany  while  Agrana Beteiligungs
AG (AGR)  said it would delay starting up a plant to make the fuel.  
 Abengoa's  plant  in Salamanca, western Spain, uses wheat and
barley and can produce 200 million liters (52.7 million gallons) of
ethanol a year. The lack of demand in Spain forced Abengoa to sell
ethanol abroad, which drove up costs. Ethanol is mixed with
gasoline at filling stations.  
 ``All cereals have increased in prices, whether it's wheat
rice or maize,'' said Robert Vierhout, secretary general of eBio,
the European Bioethanol Fuel Association that represents ethanol
producers in Brussels.  
 Brazil Acquisition  
 Seville-based Abengoa originally shut production at Salamanca
in March and restarted it in July. In August, the company spent
$297 million acquiring  Brazil 's Adriano Ometto Participacoes Ltda.
and assumed $387 million of debt.  
 The Spanish company wants to expand Adriano Ometto's two
Brazilian ethanol plants and build another to boost sales and
increase exports.  
 Brazil is the world's largest exporter of ethanol.  
 ``Ethanol for fuel is always linked to the Brazilian price of
ethanol,'' Vierhout said. ``Brazil is producing a lot and the sugar
price is relatively low.''  
 Global sugar prices have fallen 29 percent in the past year in
 London . The 27-nation European Union wants biofuels to make up an
average 5.75 percent of transport fuel by 2010 to cut dependence on
gasoline and diesel, and curb pollution. Ethanol can be made from
crops including wheat and sugar.  
 Spanish plans to add a fixed percent of ethanol into fuel for
cars are pending approval from the nation's energy regulator.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristian Rix in Madrid at 
 krix@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Murray  in London at 
 wmurray1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Voss in London at   sev@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        