-- Firms Face FSA Action Over Lehman-Backed Products
-- Caroline Binham
-- 2009-09-11T17:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-09-11/firms-face-fsa-action-over-lehman-backed-products-update1-.html

          
          
             Britain’s financial regulator will
take enforcement action, which can include fines, against some
financial-services firms that sold customers products backed by
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. guarantees.  
 The  Financial Services Authority  said today in a statement
that unidentified firms improperly sold the structured products
to customers. It’s also lifting a moratorium on the Financial
Ombudsman Service handling complaints from consumers put in
place when the regulator started reviewing the 34 billion-pound
($57 billion) U.K. structured-product market in May.  
 Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in history a year ago,
roiling financial markets and sparking lawsuits by former
clients whose assets were frozen in insolvency proceedings
around the world. Structured products have also come under
scrutiny in firm-specific investigations by the FSA, including
that of Keydata Investment Services Ltd., which administered 2.8
billion pounds of assets.  
 “We have found serious issues and will be taking action
against firms,” said  Dan Waters , the FSA’s retail policy
director, in a statement. “We have looked at promotional
literature, clarity of information, quality of advice, sales
systems and controls, involving plan managers, providers and
advisers.”  
 FSA enforcement actions include fines or ordering the
companies to offer compensation.  
 The FSA began a so-called wider implications study into the
market in May. The studies occur when the Ombudsman receives a
stream of complaints about the same product. The FSA will report
its findings in October, the London-based agency said today.  
 Protest Plan  
 Structured products were typically marketed as guaranteeing
the principal amount of money invested, even if no returns were
possible. When Lehman collapsed, the original investment wasn’t
paid back.  
 The FSA said in February that it and European regulators
were assessing how Lehman’s bankruptcy affected investors in
retail products.  
 Spirit, a group representing consumers who have lost money
through Lehman’s bankruptcy, will protest outside the FSA’s
London headquarters on Sept. 15, the anniversary of the New
York-based investment bank’s collapse, the FT Adviser  reported 
today, citing the group’s founder.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Binham in London at 
 cbinham@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        