-- Wolseley, U.K. Housing Stocks Gain on Freddie, Fannie
-- Tim Barwell
-- 2008-09-08T16:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-09-08/wolseley-u-k-housing-stocks-gain-on-freddie-fannie-update1-.html

          
          
             Wolseley Plc  led U.K. housing-
related stocks higher in London trading on speculation the U.S.
government takeover of lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will
shore up the mortgage market and increase the availability of
loans.  
 Wolseley, the world's biggest distributor of plumbing and
heating gear, rose 11 percent, while Barratt Developments Plc
and  Taylor Wimpey Plc  had the biggest gains among house
builders.  
 Britain's 19 billion-pound ($33.4 billion) homebuilding
industry is suffering as lenders rein in mortgage offers,
starving potential homebuyers of funds, after banks and
securities firms announced $500 billion of losses and writedowns
related to a collapse in the U.S. subprime mortgage market.
Yesterday's takeover of  Fannie  and  Freddie , which account for
almost half the U.S. home-loan market, makes it more likely
European banks will begin to increase lending to buyers, KBC
Peel Hunt analyst  Robin Hardy  said.  
 ``Confidence levels in the U.K. housing sector stocks are
likely to improve on this news,'' Hardy said today in a note.
Combined with signs the cost of mortgages was beginning to fall
over the past two weeks, ``the U.K. mortgage market is beginning
to look a little less sick,'' Hardy said. ``The level of
mortgage issuance in the U.K. could take a first faltering step
towards recovery.''  
 Stocks  gained in the U.S., Europe and Asia after U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  said yesterday the government
will provide short-term funding to the two biggest U.S. mortgage
finance companies and purchase debt backed by home loans. The
biggest surge in mortgage defaults in at least three decades had
threatened to bring both lenders down.  
 Estimates Raised  
 Wolseley  advanced 47 pence to close at 485 pence. Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts including London-based  John Messenger  raised their share price estimate on Wolseley to 298
pence from 263 pence in a note to clients today.  
 Taylor Wimpey , the U.K.'s biggest homebuilder, rose 11
percent, and Barratt, the No. 2, climbed 13 percent. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. analysts including Eshan Toorabally raised
their price estimates for European construction companies,
including U.K. homebuilders, in a note to clients today to
reflect the increased likelihood of mergers and acquisitions in
the industry.  
 Other housing-related stocks gained. Irish suppliers of
building materials CRH Plc rose 9.8 percent and Grafton Group
Plc 5.7 percent. CRH, the world's second-biggest maker and
distributor of construction materials, and Wolseley both get
about half of their sales from North America.  
 Commercial Property  
 U.K. commercial property stocks also rose, with the  FTSE
350 Real Estate Index  advancing 4.7 percent. Leading the gains
was Mapeley Ltd. and Quintain Estates & Development Plc. Among
other real estate stock gains, Land Securities Group Plc,
British Land Co. Plc and Liberty International Plc benefited.  
 U.K.  mortgage approvals  dropped to the lowest since at
least 1999 in July, the Bank of England said last week, while
house prices dropped 12.7 percent in August from a year earlier,
the most since at least 1983, HBOS Plc said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Barwell  in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Ross Larsen  at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        