-- ReneSola Posts Biggest Decline on Production Forecast
-- Trista Kelley
-- 2007-08-23T15:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-23/renesola-posts-biggest-decline-on-production-forecast-update3-.html

          
          
             ReneSola Ltd. , the world's largest
recycler of scrap wafers used in solar panels, posted its biggest
decline in London trading after the company said output in 2007
may be as much as 20 percent lower than forecast.  
 ReneSola shares fell 110 pence, or 30 percent, to 260 pence
in London, the biggest drop since the company first sold shares
in August 2006.  
 ReneSola plans to buy a stake in a factory which makes
polysilicon amid an industrywide shortage of the material. The
rising costs of polysilicon, which is used to make solar products
and computer chips, are eroding profit at companies such as
ReneSola. Rival LDK Solar Co. last month said it will also
manufacture polysilicon to secure its own supply.  
 ``We expect raw material costs to increase in the next
couple of quarters,'' Chief Financial Officer Charles Bai said
today in a conference call. ``We will continue to manage our
costs in a way that the impact on our margins can be mitigated.''  
 ReneSola reduced this year's output target to 120 to 125
megawatts from an earlier forecast of 150 megawatts after
component delivery delays hindered production, the company said
today in a statement.  
 Raw Materials  
 The company will have secured enough  raw materials  to boost
output to at least 180 megawatts for 2008, when polysilicon
prices are also expected to decline, Bai added.  
 ``Solar companies have to compete with chip manufacturers
for polysilicon,'' said John-Marc Bunce, an analyst at Ambrian
Partners Ltd. with a ``buy'' rating on ReneSola stock. ``There's
an undersupply issue, so the price has remained extremely high.''  
 ReneSola plans to nearly double overall wafer production
capacity by 2008 to meet demand for solar panels, which according
to the company is doubling every two years.  
 ``Based on the delays, it's now questionable whether the
2008 targets for capacity output are achievable,'' Bunce said.
``It's going to take a couple of quarters of solid results for
investors to regain that confidence.''  
 The gross operating margin for the three months ended June
30 dropped to 21 percent from 33 percent a year earlier, ReneSola
said.  
 The output delays will have an ``adverse impact on our
financial target for the year,'' according to today's statement.  
 ReneSola's net income for the quarter rose 7.5 percent to
$5.43 million from $5.05 million a year earlier. Sales almost
tripled to $45.6 million.  
 ReneSola shares have fallen 39 percent this year, valuing
the company at 260 million pounds ($521 million).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in  London  at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Fried at   mfried@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        