-- GE/Pearson consider Dow Jones bid
-- 
-- Mon Jun 18, 2007 6:49pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/18/businesspro-dowjones-ge-dc-idUSN1733885920070618

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Talks between General Electric Co. 
( GE.N ) and Pearson Plc ( PSON.L ) about challenging News Corp.'s 
$5 billion bid for Dow Jones & Co. DJ.N are ongoing, but it 
was unclear whether they would lead to an 

  offer, a source familiar with the situation said on Monday.  One possibility being considered could see the controlling 
Bancrofts keep an interest in Dow Jones, which owns the Wall 
Street Journal, that source said. That confirmed earlier 
reports by the Financial Times and the Wall Street Journal.  General Electric owns the CNBC business television channel, 
and faces competition from News Corp.NWSa.N, which is 
launching a business news channel of its own. Pearson owns the 
pink-paged business paper the Financial Times and competes with 
the Wall Street Journal.  Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. in May offered to buy Dow Jones 
& Co. for about $5 billion, or $60-a-share bid -- a 65 percent 
premium to the company's closing price the day before the bid.  The Bancrofts, who control 64 percent of Dow Jones's voting 
power, initially rebuffed the offer but later said they would 
consider such a sale and would also look at offers from other 
bidders. That led to a meeting between Murdoch and the 
Bancrofts which Murdoch described as "constructive."  Dow Jones' shares closed up 2 cents at $59.03 on Monday.  Since the Bancrofts effectively opened the bidding up, 
other potential interested parties have surfaced.  Earlier this month, Christopher Mackin, founder of 
consulting firm Ownership Associates Inc. and an adviser to the 
Dow Jones employee union, said that a "Wall Street group" and 
an Internet entrepreneur have expressed interest in mounting a 
counter bid, although he declined to give details about the 
parties.  Mackin also said that Yucaipa Cos., the investment firm run 
by Los Angeles billionaire investor Ron Burkle, was working 
with the union, but "has not committed funding or financing."  Fortune publication, however, said on Monday that Burkle 
was working with Dow Jones' union and could go public this week 
with a long shot offer for Dow Jones, citing "a source in the 
Burkle camp." Burkle's representative was not immediately 
available for comment.  GE Chief Executive Jeffrey Immelt, meanwhile, has taken a 
serious interest in the possibility, according to The New York 
Times. Executives from NBC and CNBC, who were set to attend a 
conference in London this week, stayed behind in part because 
of the talks with Pearson, the Times said.  Under a scenario that has been discussed, CNBC, the FT and 
Dow Jones would be combined in a privately held joint venture, 
the Journal reported. The venture would be owned in equal parts 
by GE and Pearson, with the Bancroft family holding a minority 
stake in the new company, the Journal said.  Such a structure could allow some of the family members to 
sell their stakes while letting others roll their Dow Jones 
stock into the new company.  The Journal reported that one family member said the 
Bancrofts had agreed they would give serious consideration to 
an offer that was lower than the $60 per share on offer from 
News Corp if they felt the buyer could better protect The Wall 
Street Journal's integrity.  A Bancroft family spokesman and a General Electric 
spokesman declined to comment. Pearson officials were not 
immediately available. Bancroft family members did not return 
telephone calls seeking comment or declined to comment.  Dow Jones also owns the Marketwatch.com business news Web 
site, the Factiva electronic news archive and Dow Jones 
Newswires, which compete with Reuters Group Plc in providing 
business news.  Pearson has also sounded out Barry Diller's 
IAC/InterActiveCorp ( IACI.O ) and privately held newspaper and 
magazine publisher Hearst Corp. as partners, the Financial 
Times reported. An IAC spokeswoman declined to comment.