-- AT&T files FCC access complaint against Cablevision
-- By  Peter Kaplan
-- Mon Jun 18, 2007 7:43pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/18/industry-att-cablevision-dc-idUSN1842717420070618

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - AT&T Corp. said on Monday it filed a 
U.S. regulatory complaint that Cablevision Systems Corp. was 
improperly withholding regional sports programming that AT&T 
must have to roll out video service in Connecticut. 

  AT&T said it had filed a complaint with the Federal 
Communications Commission against Cablevision and its Rainbow 
Media Holdings subsidiary, owners of the Fox Sports Network New 
York, Madison Square Garden Network and Fox Sports Network New 
England.  "Access to this popular programming is essential to AT&T's 
ability to present a fully competitive video service in 
Connecticut," AT&T said in its complaint.  The three sports networks carry games of the New York 
Knicks and Boston Celtics basketball teams, as well as the New 
York Rangers, New York Islanders and New Jersey Devils hockey 
teams, AT&T said.  Cablevision is a major cable operator in Connecticut and 
the leading cable company in the broader New York metropolitan 
area, AT&T said.  "Cablevision has an obvious incentive to deny its 
competitor, AT&T, access to this critical programming in 
Connecticut," AT&T said in its complaint. "Cablevision is 
acting on that incentive by unlawfully refusing to license the 
three (sports networks) to AT&T."  A spokesman for Rainbow said the company had programming 
agreements with a number of companies. But he said it had not 
come to an agreement with AT&T in Connecticut because of 
"outstanding questions regarding AT&T's violation of prior 
distribution agreements and about certain aspects of AT&T's 
technology and the protection of our programming."  At the center of the dispute is a new, Internet protocol 
television (IPTV) service called U-Verse that AT&T is rolling 
out in Connecticut and elsewhere in an effort to compete 
against cable providers' all-in-one packages of video, Internet 
and phone services.  AT&T said late last month that it was installing the 
U-Verse service to about 500 homes per day, and that it had 
more than 30,000 users. In April, it had reported an 
installation rate of 2,000 per week.  The company said in May that it plans to spend $6 billion 
to $6.5 billion through end-2008 to build the U-Verse network, 
and make the service available to 18 million homes in its 
traditional 13-state territory by end-2008.  Verizon Communications has also launched an advanced video 
service, called FiOS.  AT&T said Cablevision and Rainbow, had cited "pretextual 
reasons" for refusing to license the sports programming, 
including the fact that AT&T does not hold a cable franchise in 
Connecticut.  AT&T said that reason was bogus because Connecticut 
regulators had determined that its video service was not 
subject to the state's cable franchising requirement.