-- Jefferies 2nd-Quarter Net Rises 49% on Advisory Fees
-- Yalman Onaran
-- 2007-07-17T21:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-17/jefferies-2nd-quarter-net-rises-49-on-advisory-fees-update2-.html

          
          
             Jefferies Group Inc., the New York-
based brokerage that specializes in mid-sized company stocks,
said second-quarter profit rose 49 percent to a record on surging
revenue from  investment banking .  
 Net income climbed to $67.8 million, or 45 cents a share,
from $45.6 million, or 32 cents, a year earlier, Jefferies said
today in a statement. Earnings per share exceeded the 39-cent
average estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Richard Handler  built Jefferies in
the shadow of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley by
trading shares of companies they ignored. The firm now offers the
same customers takeover and restructuring advice and earns fees
by underwriting their bonds. Handler has bought smaller rivals in
the U.S. and  Europe  to speed the expansion.  
 ``Jefferies is continuing its change from solely an equity-
trading platform into a full-service, middle-markets investment
bank,'' Wachovia Corp. analyst  Douglas Sipkin  said in a July 9
report. He has a ``market perform'' rating on the stock.  
 Shares of Jefferies rose 3.6 percent to $29.75 in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. They've gained 11 percent this
year, the fifth-best performer on the 12-member Amex Securities
Broker/Dealer Index.  
 Revenue rose 42 percent in the second quarter to a record
$465 million. Trading revenue rose 27 percent to $219 million,
while investment-banking fees jumped 81 percent to $223 million.  
 Geographic Reach  
 Jefferies advised on $4.9 billion of mergers and
acquisitions in the quarter, 17 percent more than in the same
period last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Handler, 46, said he may pursue more acquisitions to expand
the company's geographic reach. Last month, Jefferies agreed to
buy Putnam Lovell's team of investment bankers in London,  San
Francisco  and New York. In May, it bought London-based advisory
firm LongAcre Partners.  
 ``We're always open to new partners,'' Handler said in an
interview. ``We're determined to grow globally.''  
 Jefferies reaps about 15 percent of its revenue outside the
U.S., he said.  
 Revenue from asset management fell 41 percent to $13.4
million.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Erik Schatzker  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        