-- Nobel Is Like Oscar for Not Finished Movie: Alexandre Marinis
-- Alexandre Marinis
-- 2009-10-12T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-10-11/nobel-is-like-oscar-for-not-finished-movie-alexandre-marinis.html

          
          
             It’s ludicrous that President  Barack Obama  won the Nobel Peace Prize, for which he was nominated less
than two weeks after taking office.  
 You have to wonder if this nonsense inaugurates a new era
for the Nobel prizes, one in which words trump deeds and
intentions outrank actions. Giving the new U.S. president this
prestigious award is like handing the best picture Oscar to an
unfinished movie or presenting a gold medal to Jamaican sprinter
Usain Bolt after he’s taken only a couple of steps in a race.  
 We human beings must be filled with great despair. We are
so desperate for a new global order -- especially after Sept.
11, the Iraq War and the financial crisis -- that we cling to
hope and lavish praise on aspirations for peace.  
 Alfred Bernhard Nobel’s  wishes, outlined in his  will ,
couldn’t be clearer. He set aside funds to be “annually
distributed in the form of prizes to those who, during the
preceding year, shall have conferred the greatest benefit on
mankind.”  
 Obama was sworn in on Jan. 20. The Nobel nomination
deadline was a scant 12 days later, on Feb. 1. As far as I know,
Obama was still a presidential candidate during at least part of
“the preceding year.” Did his election campaign bestow that
much good upon humanity? Hardly. In fact, political campaigns
can get pretty ugly. Now we know the same can be said of the
Nobel Prizes.  
 Playing Politics  
 The peace award isn’t handled like the other Nobel prizes.
It is decided in Norway, whereas the awards for economics,
literature and so on are made in Sweden. And while the Royal
Swedish Academy of Sciences chooses the five-member committees
that select Nobel winners in physics, chemistry and economics,
the peace laureate is picked by a committee appointed by the
 Norwegian  parliament. That explains why the peace award has been
the most controversial of the Nobel prizes.  
 Choosing Obama had to be a purely political decision.
Otherwise, it makes no sense. Nobel’s will says the peace award
must be given “to the person who shall have done the most or
the best work for fraternity between nations, for the abolition
or reduction of standing armies and for the holding and
promotion of peace congresses.”  
 Clearly, Obama doesn’t meet the requirements. With fewer
than nine months in office, he hasn’t done nearly enough to say
he’s done more and better work to promote peace than anyone
else.  
 Unfulfilled Promises  
 Obama has yet to fulfill his promises relating to global
peace such as closing Guantanamo Bay, withdrawing U.S. troops
from Iraq, improving conditions in Afghanistan or prosecuting
those who tortured enemy combatants. He’s already increased U.S.
troop strength in Afghanistan, and he may increase the military
headcount there by tens of thousands.  
 It’s hard to believe all of the other 204 people nominated
for the prize accomplished less for world peace than Obama did.
If so, the world is in much worse shape than I thought.  
 Consider Zimbabwe’s prime minister,  Morgan Tsvangirai , for
example, who struggled for years to end president  Robert Mugabe’s  menacing dictatorship. Or look at Colombian Senator
 Piedad Cordoba , who has dedicated herself to finding a peaceful
solution to the almost five-decade-long conflict between the
country’s government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces, known
as FARC.  
 Obama could have followed the example of North Vietnam’s Le
Duc Tho. After being informed that he’d won the 1973 Peace Prize
jointly with then-Secretary of State  Henry Kissinger , for
bringing about a cease-fire in the Vietnam War and a withdrawal
of U.S. forces, Tho refused to accept the honor. His rationale
was simple: there was still no peace agreement.  
 Obama, on the other hand, had no such qualms and gratefully
accepted his $1.4 million prize, which a spokesman said will be
given to charity.  
 ‘Deeply Humbled’  
 Acknowledging his shortcomings, though, Obama declared he
was “surprised and deeply humbled” by the decision. “I do not
view it as a recognition of my own accomplishments but rather as
an affirmation of American leadership on behalf of aspirations
held by people in all nations,” he said.  
 And that’s the only reasonable explanation for the choice.
It was a clever solution envisioned by the Nobel committee to
constrain the world’s most powerful leader to act in a certain
way, putting world peace first. Historically, peace has rarely
been the main foreign policy goal of the U.S.  
 In 1904, President  Theodore Roosevelt  amended the  Monroe
Doctrine  to assert the right of the U.S. to intervene militarily
in Latin America to stop the spread of European influence in the
region. Two years later, Roosevelt was awarded the Nobel Peace
Prize. In the next 10 years Roosevelt’s Corollary, as it became
known, was used to justify U.S. intervention in Cuba, Nicaragua,
Haiti and Dominican Republic.  
 Let’s hope Obama won’t dishonor his prize.  
 ( Alexandre Marinis , political economist and founding
partner of Mosaico Economia Politica, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Alexandre Marinis in Sao Paulo at 
 amarinis1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        