-- China says taxes alone won't cut trade surplus
-- 
-- Sun May 27, 2007 6:56am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/27/businesspro-china-trade-dc-idUSPEK34069520070527

 

 BEIJING  (Reuters) - New export taxes on polluting and 
energy intensive industries will help reshape how China's 
economy grows, but alone are not enough to resolve its trade 
imbalances with the United States, a top Commerce official said 
on Sunday. 

  Beijing said last week it would impose or increase taxes on 
a range of metal exports in an effort to control shipments of 
high-energy products and ease its huge trade surplus.  "You cannot expect to resolve the trade balance by simply 
curbing export patterns," Vice Commerce Minister Gao Hucheng 
told Reuters on the sidelines of a conference when asked about 
the changes.  "These products make up a relatively small portion of 
exports. But the point is that this reflects changes in trade 
and economic growth, which will have advantages in the short 
term and even greater significance in the long term."  The announcement of the tax changes came ahead of a 
"strategic economic dialogue" in Washington between high-level 
U.S. and Chinese officials at which China's huge trade surplus 
was a major bone of contention.  But the high-level economic talks failed to ease trade 
rifts between the two economic giants, risking rising tensions 
ahead of the race for the U.S. presidency.  Chinese Vice Premier Wu Yi and a delegation of ministers 
left the U.S. capital on Friday, after days of talks that made 
modest advances but were overshadowed by a lack of concrete 
progress on the key issue of China's currency.  From June 1, China will impose a tax of between 5 and 10 
percent on exports of over 80 types of steel products, a bone 
of contention with both the United States and Europe.  Exports would not slow down much this year since most 
contracts had been signed already, but next year could see a 
big fall-off, said Li Xinchuang, vice-president of the China 
Metallurgical Industry and Research Institute.