-- OPEC divided on need for deeper output curbs
-- By Summer Said and Talal Malik
-- Sat Dec 2, 2006 3:58pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/03/businesspro-oil-opec-dc-idUSL0252912920061203

 

 CAIRO  (Reuters) - OPEC ministers were divided on Saturday 
on the need for deeper oil-supply cuts, with some concerned 
about high fuel stockpiles and others reluctant because crude 
prices are holding firm above $60. 

  Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said the market was 
"significantly" out of balance because of swelling global 
inventories and that 100 million barrels should be removed.  But Libya's top energy official said markets seemed to be 
nearing a balance and he did not feel there was a need for OPEC 
to add to the 1.2 million barrel-per-day cuts agreed in 
October.  "There are some people who are worried about oversupply in 
the first quarter and therefore believe there is a need for 
more cuts in production. These people, who include Saudi 
Arabia, will look at the stock level in the market as a 
guideline and not the oil price...," a senior OPEC delegate 
told Reuters.  "However, there are some countries within OPEC who are 
looking at oil prices only and not the fundamentals of the 
market. These countries might disagree with the idea of further 
production cuts," the delegate said, adding that a final 
decision would be taken when OPEC meets December 14 in Nigeria.  OPEC, which pumps more than a third of the world's oil, 
wants to clear any supply overhang by the second quarter of 
2007, when winter ends and demand falls for its oil.  Qatari Energy Minister Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah agreed 
with the Saudi assessment that inventories were "very high," 
but also did not say whether deeper cuts were needed in 
December.  OPEC President Edmund Daukoru has said the group would 
probably trim again, but the size of the reduction would depend 
on prices and inventory levels. Venezuela's oil minister has 
said Caracas could propose a further cut of 500,000 bpd.
  WATCHING PRICES  Iran's oil minister said OPEC may cut output again if 
prices fell. "There is such a possibility if the prices fall," 
Kazem Vaziri-Hamaneh said. "This cannot be predicted right 
now."  Since hitting a 17-month low of $54.86 on November 17, U.S. 
crude prices have rallied to above $63 on Friday.  Kuwait's oil minister has said OPEC should not make 
additional output cuts with U.S. crude above $60 a barrel.  And Libya's Shokri Ghanem said he did not believe the 
excess in stocks would have a big impact on oil markets "within 
the framework of current prices," which he said were 
acceptable.  "For me, it doesn't look at this moment that a cut is 
necessary, but we have to see," he told reporters in Cairo.  The prospect of another supply cut by OPEC has raised 
alarms in the United States, the world's leading consumer.  Energy Secretary Sam Bodman on Friday advised against a cut 
and the Energy Information Administration said OPEC would not 
have complete data about U.S. inventories by its December 
meeting, making any further decisions on cuts risky.  The United Arab Emirates' oil minister said OPEC needed to 
assess the impact of its last cuts before taking a decision.  A Reuters survey showed the 10 OPEC members with output 
curbs had enforced two thirds of the pledged cuts in November. 
Led by Saudi Arabia, they cut output by 785,000 bpd, but were 
still pumping nearly 600,000 bpd over a 26.3 million bpd 
target.  (Additional reporting by Alireza Ronaghi in Tehran)