-- Jobs and data set stocks' year-end course
-- By  Ellis Mnyandu
-- Sun Dec 3, 2006 11:42am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/03/businesspro-column-stocks-outlook-dc-idUSN0137493520061203

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Wall Street is still on course to end 
2006 in the plus column, but it is too early to pop the 
champagne corks. 

  Stock investors will comb through this week's jobs report 
for November and other data to see if the U.S. economy and 
corporate profits will be able to withstand the fallout from a 
slowdown in housing and the dollar's slide.  Last week, unexpected declines in a key gauge of Midwestern 
business activity and a closely watched index of U.S. 
manufacturing bolstered hopes that the Federal Reserve may want 
to forestall an acute economic slowdown by cutting interest 
rates sometime soon.  Just how soon is the question. Investors hope that the 
answer might lie in this week's stream of numbers.  "I expect trading (this week) to be subdued, with generally 
a cautious tone," said Frederic Dickson, senior vice president 
and market strategist at D.A. Davidson & Co., in Lake Oswego, 
Oregon. "Investors are going to be on alert, waiting for 
Friday's jobs report."  Economists polled by Reuters expect U.S. nonfarm payrolls 
to add 110,000 jobs in November, after October's gain of 
92,000. They are forecasting an increase in the U.S. 
unemployment rate to 4.5 percent in November from 4.4 percent 
in October.  But if November payroll growth falls below 100,000, 
investors could become more concerned about the economy's 
health, analysts said.  That anxiety, though, is not likely to derail the stock 
market's momentum toward a higher finish for the year.  "The jobs report will be key because people will be looking 
for further evidence the economy is weakening and that would 
add more fuel to the fire that a rate cut is something that 
would happen sooner rather than later," said Sam Rahman, 
portfolio manager at Baring Asset Management Inc. in Boston.
  ICY JOLT FROM ISM  U.S. interest-rate futures on Friday indicated that markets 
were pricing in a 64 percent chance of a rate cut in the first 
quarter of 2007.  Those odds were up from 52 percent factored in before the 
Institute for Supply Management reported that its index of 
national factory activity fell below 50 in November for the 
first time in 3-1/2 years, undercutting forecasts for a tiny 
gain.  As the week begins, "a number of traders will have fresh 
memories of the latest ISM index," Dickson of D.A. Davidson & 
Co. said.  But "its effect seems to be offset by the fact that there 
are still very strong year-end contributions as hedge fund 
managers look to catch up with their performance benchmarks 
before year-end," he explained.  Still, the drop in the ISM's manufacturing gauge proved 
stunning enough to send major U.S. stock indexes into the red 
on Friday, the first trading day of December. Comments from a 
Federal Reserve official saying more interest-rate increases 
may be required to curb menacing inflation added to the 
downside bias.  For the past week, the Dow Jones industrial average  .DJI  
ended down 0.70 percent, while the Nasdaq  .IXIC  dropped 1.91 
percent. The S&P 500  .SPX  finished off 0.30 percent.
  VISIONS OF A SANTA CLAUS RALLY  But with only four weeks to go in the year, the Dow is up 
13.78 percent, while the S&P 500 is up 11.89 percent and the 
Nasdaq is up 9.43 percent.  Although the barrage of economic data could cause some 
apprehension, analysts say it is likely that the stock market 
will add to its gains in December as investors begin 
positioning themselves for the new year and a possible cut in 
interest rates.  "The main thing that Wall Street is looking for from the 
economic numbers is what the impact on earnings is going to be 
and what the impact on demand is going to be," said Christopher 
Zook, chairman and chief investment officer at CAZ Investments 
in Houston, Texas.  "The Santa Claus rally could come around the last week of 
Christmas. It's much more liquidity driven, with the amount of 
money coming in at the end of the year."
  LISTENING TO TOLL BROTHERS  In the coming week, Monday's release of October pending 
home sales figures will merit attention. Economists polled by 
Reuters forecast that the National Association of Realtors 
pending home sales index will drop to 108.6 in October from 
109.1 in September.  Among notable companies with earnings to report is luxury 
home builder Toll Brothers Inc. ( TOL.N ). It is scheduled to 
report on Tuesday. Wall Street will zero in on what the company 
says about its outlook.  Investors also will focus on the revision of third-quarter 
productivity and unit labor costs on Tuesday, along with the 
release of October factory orders.  Besides the jobs report on Friday, the University of 
Michigan will release its preliminary reading of December 
consumer sentiment. The Reuters forecast: 92.0, compared with 
November's final index at 92.1.  Crude oil prices could prove to be another wild card for 
the stock market after ending November back above $60 a barrel 
with their first monthly gain since July and their biggest 
monthly advance since April.  Investors also will keep an eye on the dollar after the 
greenback slumped on Friday to a 14-year low against the 
British pound and a 20-month low against the euro following the 
surprisingly weak ISM manufacturing data.  A more precipitous slide in the dollar, analysts say, could 
fuel inflationary pressures by causing the prices of imported 
goods to surge. But that scenario would benefit the earnings of 
multinationals such as Caterpillar Inc. ( CAT.N ) and Coca-Cola 
Co. ( KO.N ).  (Additional reporting by Jennifer Coogan)  (Wall St Week Ahead runs weekly. Questions or comments on 
this column can be e-mailed to ellis.mnyandu(at)reuters.com)