-- Mack-Cali pulls out of Icahn's Reckson bid
-- By  Ilaina Jonas
-- Sat Dec 2, 2006 7:39pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/03/businesspro-reckson-icahn-dc-idUSN0241394720061203

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Mack-Cali Realty Corp.( CLI.N ) has 
pulled out of its partnership with Carl Icahn and Harry 
Macklowe in their bid to buy office building owner Reckson 
Associates Realty Corp.RA.N, exercising its option not to 
contribute $400 million to the deal, Reckson said on Saturday. 

  It wasn't clear why Mack-Cali pulled out of the deal two 
days after it announced that it would join Rome Acquisition 
L.P., the entity billionaire Icahn and New York real estate 
magnate Macklowe formed to takeover Reckson, a real estate 
investment trust (REIT) that owns office buildings in New York 
City and its suburbs.  A Mack-Cali spokeswoman did not immediately return phone 
calls.  In a non-binding offer, the partnership has said it would 
pay $49 per share, or about $4.6 billion in cash, for Reckson, 
which owns 101 properties in New York City, its suburbs and in 
New Jersey. Mack-Cali owns property primarily in New Jersey and 
New York state's Westchester County.  Reckson's board has already approved a stock-and-cash 
takeover offer from New York office owner SL Green Realty 
Corp.( SLG.N ) worth roughly $45.70 per share, or $3.99 billion 
based on SL Green's closing share price Friday of $134.95. 
Reckson's shareholders are scheduled to vote on SL Green's 
offer on December 6.  The $400 million from Mack-Cali would have pushed up Rome's 
equity contribution -- the amount the partnership itself puts 
into the deal -- to $1.6 billion from the $1.2 billion Icahn 
and Macklowe said they together would fund. The remainder could 
be borrowed or come from another source.  However, in a press release Saturday, Reckson also said 
that despite repeated requests, Rome still had not shown it any 
documentation with respect to its debt financing arrangements 
and had not responded to Reckson's requests for information 
regarding a number of outstanding financial, legal and 
structural issues pertaining to Rome's proposal.  Reckson also added that to date, Rome had not made a firm 
proposal to acquire Reckson. Rome previously said it would 
deliver a definitive offer by Monday. Reckson said Saturday 
that it continued to remain subject to a binding merger 
agreement with SL Green.