-- L.A. School Bond Yields Fall Below Build Americas in Biggest Weekly Sale
-- Allison Bennett
-- 2010-04-23T20:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/l-a-school-bond-yields-fall-below-build-americas-in-biggest-weekly-sale.html

          
          
             The Los Angeles Unified School
District, which is facing a bigger deficit than the city of Los
Angeles, led issuers selling $445 million of Qualified School
Construction Bonds this week, the most since the program began
last year.  
 Investor bids exceeded the amount the district offered and
was about three times oversubscribed, according to Jean Buckley,
president of Tamalpais Advisors Inc. in Sausalito, California,
the financial adviser for the deal. The district is the second-
largest U.S. school system behind New York City.  
 The dedicated property tax “pledged to the bonds from a
large diversified tax base” is one reason investors might have
found the bond deal attractive, said David Blair, a municipal
debt analyst for Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport
Beach, California, in an e-mail. Pimco’s Total Return Fund, with
$219.7 billion in assets, is the world’s largest bond fund.  
 Los Angeles Unified faces a $640 million funding gap for
the 2010-2011 school year, according to its Web site. It
initially sent out 5,700 dismissal notices, said Moody’s
Investors Service. Superintendent Ramon Cortines decided instead
to shorten the academic year by five days to save $52 million
and rescind 2,000 job cuts. The city’s deficit, which led to a
downgrade by Fitch Ratings this month, is $485 million.  
 The $290.2 million taxable offering in 17-year securities,
rated Aa2 by Moody’s, was broken into two parts, including
$190.2 million with a 5.98 percent coupon. The remaining $100
million was bought by one investor at 5.72 percent, according to
Buckley. The yield on the first portion fell 4 basis points to
5.94 percent today. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Build America  
 The average Build America Bond yielded about 6.1 percent
April 22, according to the Wells Fargo Build America Index,
which tracks the taxable securities. A comparably rated taxable
bond yields about 5.74 percent, according to Bloomberg fair
value data. The deal was marketed by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 The bonds are secured by a voter-approved stream of
dedicated property taxes, according to the preliminary offering
document.  
 “We saw this with BABs, which had a very wide spread last
April, and as time went by buyers became more comfortable with
the concept and there was a dramatic narrowing,” said Alan
Schankel, a managing director at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. “A year from now the spread differential between
the QSCBs and BABs will be nearly non-existent.”  
 About $3.3 billion in QSCBs have been sold nationwide,
compared with about $97 billion in Build America Bonds,
according to Bloomberg data. The federal government subsidizes
as much as 100 percent of the interest costs on the school debt
and a fixed 35 percent on Build Americas.  
 California Tax-Exempt  
 The yield at sale was 96 basis points higher than similar-
maturity California tax-exempt general obligations sold in 2007,
now rated A1 by Moody’s, which traded at 5.02 percent yesterday,
according to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.  
 “I anticipated 6.5 to 6.75 percent for this type of
issue,” said Bud Byrnes, chief executive officer of Encino,
California-based RH Investment Corp., which specializes in the
state’s bonds. “Typically, late April is a terrible time in our
market because of taxes, some people have gotten very aggressive
here and I’m surprised.”  
 The school bond subsidy is paid directly to the borrower, a
change that came last month when Congress passed the Hiring
Incentives to Restore Employment Act. The program previously
offered investors a tax credit on interest paid.  
 Osceola’s County School District in Florida sold $40.5
million in 17-year QSCBs, rated A and A2, in the second-largest
school bond offering this week behind Los Angeles Unified. The
securities were priced to yield 6.66 percent and traded at 6.4
percent today.  
 “We had been working on the deal for months and would have
issued tax-credit QSCBs if the law had not changed,” said Bill
Collins, chief financial officer of the district. “But net cost
to us is less under the interest subsidy program.”  
 Next week issuers plan to sell a total of $87.2 million in
school notes.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        