-- Ahmadinejad's Zimbabwe Visit Described as a `Colossal Scandal' by the MDC
-- Brian Latham
-- 2010-04-23T08:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/ahmadinejad-s-zimbabwe-visit-described-as-a-colossal-scandal-by-the-mdc.html

          
          
             Zimbabwe’s Movement for Democratic
Change said a visit by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to
the country is a “colossal scandal.”  
 Ahmadinejad was invited to open Zimbabwe’s annual trade
fair in the second-largest city, Bulawayo. The MDC, which shares
power with President Robert Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National
Union-Patriotic Front, “was not consulted about Ahmadinejad’s
visit,” party spokesman Nelson Chamisa said.  
 “Inviting Ahmadinejad to an investment forum in Zimbabwe
is like inviting a mosquito to cure malaria,” Chamisa said in a
telephone interview today from the capital, Harare. “It’s an
insult to peace-loving people in both Iran and Zimbabwe.”  
 The Iranian leader arrived in Harare yesterday for
political and investment talks with Mugabe, the state-controlled
Herald reported today. The two leaders opened a tractor assembly
plant in Harare’s Willowvale Industrial Area yesterday. The
factory is a joint venture between Zimbabwe’s state-owned
Industrial Development Corp. and the Iranian Tractor
Manufacturing Co., the newspaper said.  
 Ahmadinejad said “satanic Western forces” had implemented
sanctions against Iran and Zimbabwe, according to the Herald.
Mugabe assured Ahmadinejad of his country’s support for Iran’s
nuclear program, the newspaper said.  
 Iran is under three sets of United Nations sanctions for
refusing to scale back the nuclear program, which the U.S. and
several of its allies say may be aimed at building a weapon.  
 Most Western governments have imposed sanctions against
Mugabe and senior Zanu-PF officials who have been accused of
human-rights abuses in the past decade.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        