-- Thai Stocks, Baht Slump Most in Asia After Deadly Bangkok Grenade Attacks
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-04-23T10:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/thai-stocks-currency-slump-most-in-asia-after-grenade-blasts-kill-three.html

          
          
             Thailand’s benchmark stock index
posted the second-biggest loss in Asia after grenade attacks
killed one person in Bangkok, triggering the largest selloff by
foreign investors in five months.  
 The SET Index fell 0.9 percent to close at 754.58, the
second-worst performer among Asian benchmark indexes, ahead of
Hong Kong. The baht was little changed at 32.21 per dollar after
slumping by as much as 0.4 percent to 32.35 earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The grenade blasts yesterday injured at least 78 more
people in a Bangkok financial district near an anti-government
protest. At least five grenades exploded on Silom Road,
including one in a crowd near a hotel and another at Bangkok
Bank Pcl’s headquarters, government spokesman Panitan
Wattanayagorn said yesterday.  
 “The incident was as bad as the deadly clash on April
10,” said Win Udomrachtavanich, chief investment officer at
Asset Plus Fund Management Co., which manages about 24 billion
baht ($745 million) of assets. “It further worsens the
country’s political crisis because it’s among the worst attacks
against innocent people in Bangkok we can remember.”  
 Overseas investors sold a net 2.33 million baht of Thai
equities today, the most since Nov. 23, according to the stock
exchange’s data on its Web site.  
 The SET slid as much as 5.9 percent on April 12, after
clashes between soldiers and demonstrators killed 25 people, the
deadliest protest crackdown in 18 years.  
 ‘Worsening Situation’  
 “There is real uncertainty over when and how the protests
will end, boosting concern about the impact on the economy and
putting downward pressure on the baht,” said Minori Uchida, a
senior analyst at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a unit of
Japan’s biggest bank. “The worsening situation has also led to
concern foreigners will pull money out from the country.”  
 Erawan Group Pcl, the operator of Grand Hyatt Erawan and
Marriott hotels in Bangkok, slumped 3.6 percent to 2.16 baht,
its lowest close since Aug. 19. The Grand Hyatt has been shut as
the protesters block roads around the hotel.  
 The SET Index has lost 7.1 percent since Prime Minister
Abhisit Vejjajiva declared a state of emergency in Bangkok on
April 7 as anti-government demonstrations escalated.  
 The army yesterday warned anti-government protesters camped
in central Bangkok that their time “is running out” and
soldiers plan to disperse them.  
 Political Risk  
 “The political risk in Thailand is so high that it’s
better to stay away from the market at the moment,” Win said.
“There is a lot of uncertainty as the resolution of the current
crisis isn’t expected any time soon.”  
 About 14,000 people rallied in the demonstration site,
where they set up showers next to the Four Seasons Hotel and
slept under billboards for Prada and Louis Vuitton. The
protesters, who are demanding new elections, have cordoned off
an area roughly the size of New York’s Central Park with bamboo
barricades.  
 Abhisit’s supporters had gathered in the area of the blasts
for the past three nights, sparking clashes with his mostly
working-class opponents. Both sides hurled bottles, marbles,
rocks and small bits of metal at each other using slingshots.  
 Abhisit has rejected demands from the protesters to call an
immediate election and pledged to enforce the law. The
demonstrators, who largely support fugitive ex-leader Thaksin
Shinawatra, have defied the emergency rule since April 7 and
have ignored previous government warnings to avoid certain areas.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        