-- Air France Black-Box Hunters May Seek More Funds to Extend Atlantic Search
-- Laurence Frost
-- 2010-04-23T12:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/air-france-black-box-hunters-may-seek-more-funds-to-extend-atlantic-search.html

          
          
             Investigators probing the crash of
Air France Flight 447 said they may need to ask for more funds
after a first sweep of the search area in the Atlantic Ocean
failed to recover the missing flight recorders.  
 France’s BEA air-accident investigation bureau plans to
return its two sonar vessels to the Brazilian port of Recife
next week before deciding whether and where to conduct further
searches, spokeswoman Martine Del Bono said by telephone today.  
 Additional searches would take the cost of the operation
beyond the original 10 million euros ($13.3 million) provided by
Air France and airplane manufacturer Airbus SAS, Del Bono said.  
 “The funding question will be raised after we’ve looked at
the technical case” for a return to the crash area, she said.  
 The Airbus A330 jet crashed into the Atlantic on June 1 en
route from Rio de Janeiro to Paris, killing all 228 people on
board. In a third undersea search for the cockpit data and voice
recorders, the BEA began scouring the mountainous seabed three
weeks ago after reducing the previous search area about tenfold
with the help of new satellite data on ocean currents.  
 Spokespeople for Airbus and Air France, which each paid 5
million euros to fund the latest black-box search, had no
immediate comment on further financing.  
 The BEA’s two search vessels, equipped with sonar and robot
subs, will leave the area by Monday after completing an initial
sweep of the ocean floor and return to port for refueling and
personnel changeovers, Del Bono said. They could return to the
estimated crash zone within 10 days if further searches are
ordered.  
 BEA head Jean-Paul Troadec said in February that the
investigation may be exhausted if the cockpit voice and data
recorders are not recovered. Since the crash, salvage teams have
pulled about 1,000 pieces of debris and 50 bodies of victims
from the ocean.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        