-- Malaysia Consumer Prices Rise, Boosting Chance of Interest Rate Increase
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-04-23T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/malaysian-consumer-prices-rise-boosting-chance-of-interest-rate-increase.html

          
          
             Malaysia’s consumer prices climbed
for a fourth month in March, adding to evidence that the economy
is strengthening and giving the central bank room to raise
interest rates for a second time this year.  
 Consumer prices climbed 1.3 percent from a year earlier
after gaining 1.2 percent in February, the Putrajaya, Malaysia-
based statistics department said in a statement today. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists was
for a 1.5 percent increase.  
 Asian central banks are starting to remove the emergency
monetary stimulus implemented to counter the global recession
last year as inflation returns with an economic recovery. India
has raised interest rates twice since Malaysia increased
borrowing costs on March 4, and Singapore said this month it
will allow its currency to strengthen.  
 “Policy makers are confident the recovery is on solid
footing and clearly want to move rates toward normal levels
before prices begin spiraling,” Matthew Circosta, an economist
at Moody’s Economy.com in Sydney, said before the report.
“Malaysia’s inflation rate remains subdued, but the central
bank is expected to continue normalizing the policy rate.”  
 Bank Negara Malaysia raised interest rates for the first
time in almost four years last month, saying the country’s
recovery was “firmly established.” Southeast Asia’s third-
largest economy may expand 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent this year,
the central bank said in March. That’s more than the
government’s October for growth of as much as 3 percent.  
 Policy Meeting  
 The central bank next meets on May 13 to decide on monetary
policy. Economists at Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley and ING
Groep NV are among those predicting Malaysia will raise rates
from the current 2.25 percent.  
 Malaysia may increase interest rates further to avert asset
bubbles and discourage risky investments, even as inflation will
likely remain “modest” this year, central bank Governor Zeti
Akhtar Aziz said in a March 12 Bloomberg Television interview.  
 Food prices, which account for about 31 percent of
Malaysia’s inflation index, rose 1.7 percent in March, according
to today’s report. The cost of housing, utilities and fuels
gained 1 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        