-- Aletti Gestielle Plans to Buy Greek Bonds, Says Market in `Wrong Place'
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-04-23T13:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/aletti-gestielle-plans-to-buy-greek-bonds-says-market-in-wrong-place-.html

          
          
             Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA, a Milan-
based investment company with about $10 billion in assets, plans
to buy Greek bonds next month, betting on a rally after the
country asked for aid from the European Union.  
 Aletti, which is due to receive 100 million euros in Greek
bond redemptions in May, will reinvest the cash in the country’s
securities, said Fabrizio Fiorini, the company’s head of fixed
income. The money manager has already been adding to its
holdings of the bonds for the past two months, he said. Greece
today called for activation of the financial lifeline of as much
as 45 billion euros ($60 billion) as its borrowing costs surged
to the highest since at least 1998.  
 “The market is in a wrong place and I’m not going to
follow the herd,” Fiorini said in an interview. “Greek bonds
have already lost massively and will rebound. We don’t believe
that Greece will default.”  
 The request by Greece came one day after the yield on the
country’s benchmark two-year note topped 11 percent, nearing
that of Pakistan, and Moody’s Investors Service lowered Greece’s
creditworthiness one notch to A3. The Greek 10-year bond yield
dropped 17 basis points to 8.80 percent, as of 3:08 p.m. in
London.  
 The aid will also allow Greece to “successfully” enter
the dollar bond market, Fiorini said.  
 Petros Christodoulou, director general of Greece’s Public
Debt Management Agency, said March 31 the nation plans to sell a
global bond in dollars by the end of May.  
 “They will go ahead with it in May, once the details of the
package becomes clearer and after they repay investors on bond
redemptions,” Fiorini said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        