-- Manchester City Lines Up $77 Million Bid for Liverpool's Torres: Roundup
-- Christopher Elser
-- 2010-04-23T10:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/manchester-city-lines-up-77-million-bid-for-liverpool-s-torres-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  
 City Bidding  
 Manchester City will offer 50 million pounds ($77 million)
to Liverpool for Fernando Torres and 200,000 pounds-a-week to
the striker, the Guardian said.  
 City coach Roberto Mancini expressed interest in the
Spaniard yesterday and wants to revamp his team’s attack, the
newspaper said.  
 The Sun said Liverpool coach Rafael Benitez plans to leave
the club and take Torres with him to Juventus.  
 Arsenal Swap  
 Juventus is planning to offer goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon
and Felipe Melo to Arsenal in exchange for striker Robin van
Persie, the Mirror said.  
 The Italian club will also move for Torres and Wolfsburg’s
Edin Dzeko, the newspaper said.  
 The Daily Mail said Juventus will sign Arsenal defender
Bacary Sagna if the London club hires Ajax’s Gregory van der
Wiel as a replacement.  
 Newcastle Plans  
 Newcastle manager Chris Hughton said his club will have
“difficult times” signing new players after being promoted to
the Premier League, the Mirror said.  
 The team, which rebounded to the top league after being
relegated last season, won’t have much cash to spend, he said.  
 King’s Cup  
 England manager Fabio Capello wants to take Tottenham’s
Ledley King to the World Cup despite the player’s struggle to
play two matches a week because of injuries, the Mirror said.  
 Capello wants the player because of concerns about central
defenders John Terry and Rio Ferdinand, the newspaper said.  
 Leaky Hull  
 Hull City failed to put clauses into the contracts of its
five highest-paid players including Jimmy Bullard that would
reduce their income if the club gets relegated, the Daily Mail
said.  
 Bullard’s 45,000 pound-a-week pay could bring the team more
financial problems if it is demoted, the newspaper said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        