-- Angel Investors Close to Removing Curbs From Overhaul
-- Tim Mullaney
-- 2010-04-23T13:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/angel-investors-close-to-deal-removing-curbs-from-finance-reform-bill.html

          
          
             Lobbyists for startup investors say
they are nearing a deal with Senate staff and state regulators
to remove curbs on angel investing from the Senate’s financial
reform bill.  
 The possible compromise would require angel investors, who
buy stakes in startups in private offerings, to have a net worth
of $1 million, instead of $2.3 million as proposed by the Senate
bill, said Marianne Hudson, executive director of the Angel
Capital Association in Overland Park, Kansas. It would also
scale back plans to let states regulate angel deals, she said.  
 “We’re close to amendments that are good for
entrepreneurs,” said Hudson.  
 Three-quarters of angel investors may stop backing young
companies if the proposed rules aren’t changed, said Liddy
Karter, managing director of Karter Capital Advisors in Old
Lyme, Connecticut. U.S.-based angel investors backed 35,000
businesses with $19 billion in 2008, according to the Center for
Venture Research at the University of New Hampshire in Durham.
The bill, without changes, would make it more difficult for
startups to grow, Karter said.  
 “That’s a really bad idea when you’re trying to create new
jobs,” said Karter. “Without capital, these companies don’t
exist, and they certainly don’t grow.”  
 The possible changes were discussed in conference calls and
in person, as recently as April 16, between Banking Committee
staffers, lobbyists and the North American Securities
Administrators Association, which represents state regulators,
Hudson said.  
 $25,000 Stakes  
 “We’re still negotiating the bill,” said Kirstin Brost, a
spokeswoman for the committee, declining to discuss the talks
further.  
 State regulators agreed not to pursue the broad authority
the Banking Committee’s bill would give them to review angel-
investment deals and delay them for as long as 120 days, said
Denise Voigt Crawford, president of the administrators’
association and commissioner of the Texas State Securities Board
in Austin.  
 Angel investors often back companies that aren’t yet ready
to raise venture capital, said Mark Heesen, president of the
National Venture Capital Association in Arlington, Virginia. A
typical deal may raise as much as $2 million, with each investor
contributing as little as $25,000, said Nicholas Baily, co-
founder of New York-based Belgrave Trust, a startup that sells
carbon-offset securities to consumers and raised capital from
angel investors.  
 Under federal law, such private placements are only lightly
regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and
companies raising money don’t have to disclose detailed
financial information publicly. In exchange, the rules limit
participation in such deals to investors whose financial
profiles indicate they are sophisticated enough to manage the
risk of investing in private companies.  
 ‘Perfect’ Compromise  
 While the new terms may keep the minimum net worth for
angel investors at $1 million, as it is under current law, the
language being discussed would exclude the angel investor’s home
equity from his or her net worth, Hudson and Karter said.  
 “The compromise is perfect,” said Jeffrey Sohl, director of
University of New Hampshire’s venture-research center. “Funds
for angel investing shouldn’t come out of your home anyway.”  
 Regulators had wanted to raise the thresholds to account
for inflation, Heesen said. The initial proposal would have
eliminated a generation of experienced Internet executives from
backing emerging companies with the payoffs from selling their
own companies, Baily said.  
 “If someone has an Internet startup and sells it, the
founder’s payout can be $3 million to $5 million before taxes,
and after they buy somewhere to live they end up between $1
million and $2.3 million,” Baily said. “Someone who did that
wouldn’t be able to able to invest $25,000 in an industry they
are a world-class expert in. It’s crazy.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Mullaney in New York at 
 tmullaney1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bob Rice, managing partner at Tangent Capital, talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about a provision in U.S. Senator Christopher Dodd's financial overhaul legislation that Rice says will severely restrict investing in start-up companies. 
     Rice says Dodd's bill would cut so-called angel investors by 75 percent. Rice is a member of the venture capital consortium the New York Angels. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
