-- Apple Took 72% of Japan Smartphone Market in 2009
-- Yoshinori Eki
-- 2010-04-23T06:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/apple-ships-1-69-million-iphones-in-japan-gets-72-of-market-group-says.html

          
          
             Apple Inc.’s iPhone shipments to
Japan more than doubled in the past year, capturing 72 percent
of the country’s smartphone market, a research firm said.  
 Shipments of the iPhone, which began selling in Japan in
July 2008, climbed to 1.69 million units in the year ended March
31, Tokyo-based MM Research Institute Ltd. said in a report
yesterday. That raised the total to 2.3 million, Hideaki Yokota,
an analyst at the research firm, said by telephone today.  
 The iPhone helped smartphone sales more than double last
fiscal year in Japan as shipments of regular mobile phones
shrank, according to the report. Smartphone shipments will
probably exceed 3 million units in the 12 months started April 1,
even as the overall market is forecast to contract for a third
year, it said.  
 “Last year was just the beginning of the smartphone
competition, which is why Apple did so well,” said Calvin Huang,
who rates iPhone assembler Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.
“buy” at Daiwa Securities Group Inc. in Taipei. “This year
will be much more competitive.”  
 Taiwan’s HTC Corp. was the second-largest seller of
smartphones in Japan with 11 percent of the market, followed by
Toshiba Corp.’s 6.8 percent, it said.  
 Android Phones  
 The MM estimates indicate Japan accounted for about 5.6
percent of iPhones sold worldwide last fiscal year. While the
Cupertino, California-based electronics maker doesn’t break down
the number iPhones sold by country, Japan’s portion of total
revenue climbed to 6.6 percent in the latest quarter, the
highest since 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Softbank Corp., the exclusive iPhone carrier in Japan, and
bigger rivals NTT DoCoMo Inc. and KDDI Corp. are expanding their
smartphone lineups with handsets running Google Inc.’s Android
software to bolster revenue from data services. DoCoMo, Japan’s
largest mobile-phone operator, began selling its second Android
model earlier this month and KDDI, the country’s second-biggest,
will introduce a Sharp Corp.-made phone in June.
    Android, a newcomer to the smartphone operating-system
market, will see its global handset base jump to 68 million
units by 2013, from 690,000 in 2008, researcher IDC Corp. said
in January. Google software will outpace Apple’s and Microsoft
Corp.’s operating systems to be second only to Symbian, used by
Nokia Oyj.
    Softbank rose 0.4 percent to close at 2,104 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange, compared with a 0.3 percent decline by the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average. DoCoMo dropped 1.5 percent,
while KDDI retreated 0.1 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshinori Eki in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Steve Jobs, chief executive officer of Apple Inc.  
                       
                         
                           Ryan Anson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Steve Jobs, chief executive officer of Apple Inc., speaks during a presentation at the company's headquarters in Cupertino, California. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Steve Jobs, chief executive officer of Apple Inc., speaks during a presentation at the company's headquarters in Cupertino, California. Photographer: Ryan Anson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
