-- Arris, Roche, Park West Galleris, Five Spice Sushi: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-04-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/arris-roche-park-west-galleris-five-spice-sushi-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Arris Group Inc., a maker of video-
on-demand equipment for cable companies, filed a patent-
infringement lawsuit against smaller rival Harmonic Inc. over
servers that store or distribute movies.  
 Harmonic’s StreamLiner 3000 server is infringing four
patents, Arris said in the complaint filed April 19 in federal
court in Atlanta. The StreamLiner competes with the n5 series by
Arris that’s part of its new ConvergeMedia system.  
 The companies compete for business from cable-TV companies
including Comcast Corp. and Time Warner Cable Inc., which are
ramping up pay-per-view movie and video-on-demand selections to
keep their subscribers from straying to rental services such as
Netflix Inc. Hollywood studios and the largest U.S. cable
systems are spending $30 million to market on-demand movie
rentals as DVD sales decline, according to industry figures.  
 “Arris has spent considerable time, effort and resources
developing and promoting its products and services” that use
the inventions, the Suwanee, Georgia-based company said in the
complaint. Arris said Harmonic has known at least since Dec. 15
of the patents and infringement.  
 “We’ve been in communication” with Harmonic, Alex Swan, a
spokesman for Arris, said. He declined to comment on the nature
of the discussions.  
 Arris, which reported $1.1 billion in revenue for 2009,
seeks cash compensation for the unauthorized use of its
inventions, plus a court order to halt further infringement. The
patents, issued from 1995 through 2000 to Oracle Corp. and now
owned by Arris, relate to ways to process and transmit digital
video.  
 Harmonic doesn’t comment on legal matters, Sarah Lum, a
spokeswoman for the Sunnyvale, California-based company, said in
an e-mail. The company reported revenue of about $319 million
for last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The case is Arris Group Inc. v. Harmonic Inc., 10cv1149,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  
 MIT to Ask Court to Review Roche Patent Dispute with Stanford  
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology said it will file a
friend-of-the-court brief, urging the U.S. Supreme Court to
review an appeals court patent-case ruling adverse to Stanford
University.  
 MIT said it will ask the high court on April 26 to
reconsider a ruling the Washington-based Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit made in a dispute between Stanford and Roche
Holding AG, the world’s biggest maker of tumor drugs.  
 In September, the appeals court ruled that Roche has
ownership rights to polymerase chain reaction assays that test
blood for levels of HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. The appeals
court ordered a trial judge to dismiss Stanford’s patent-
infringement claims.  
 MIT will argue that the present ruling “could jeopardize
the important relationship between the federal government and
research universities,” according to the school’s statement.  
 Lita Nelsen, who heads MIT’s technology-transfer office,
said in the statement that it’s “fitting that the Institute add
its voice to this important case.”  
 The court filing will address the 1980 Bayh-Dole Act, which
gave universities title to inventions flowing from federally
funded research. This bill is largely responsible for the growth
of university technology transfer since its passage.  
 The underlying case was filed in federal court in 2005.  
 The lower court case is Board of Trustees of the Leland
Stanford Junior University v. Roche Molecular Systems Inc.,
05cv4158, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  
 The appeal is Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford
Junior University v. Roche Molecular Systems Inc., 2008- 1509
and 2008-1510, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  
 Trademark  
 Park West Galleries Loses Trademark-Infringement Verdict  
 A defamation lawsuit a Michigan art dealer filed against an
Arizona art registry turned into a trademark-infringement
verdict against the Michigan company on April 21.  
 Park West Galleries Inc. of Southfield, Michigan, sued
Phoenix-based Global Fine Art Registry LLC in May 2008, alleging
the Arizona company made “false and defamatory statements” and
destroyed its goodwill and reputation. The lawsuit was
originally filed in Michigan state court and transferred to
federal court in Detroit.  
 Park West took exception to articles published on the Fine
Arts Registry Web site criticizing art auctions the company held
aboard cruise ships and calling into question the authenticity
of works attributed to Salvador Dali that it sold.  
 Park West asked the court for an order barring allegedly
defamatory statements, and sought an award for money damages of
$46 million.  
 The jury found no defamation and instead awarded Fine Arts
Registry $500,000 on its counterclaim for trademark
infringement. The verdict related to Park West’s use of a Fine
Arts Registry trademark in sponsored search engine links.  
 Park West is the defendant in a civil fraud class action
brought in federal court in Seattle. The suit alleges the
company sold “low value, worthless or fake artwork” in
shipboard auctions, while representing the art as “valuable”
and a “‘good investment.” Miami-based Royal Caribbean Cruises
Ltd. is codefendant with Park West in that case.  
 The registry was represented by Donald L. Payton, Lawrence
Atorthy and Ralph Chapa Jr. of Kaufman, Payton & Chapa of
Farmington Hills, Massachusetts.  
 The case is Park West Galleries Inc., v. Hochman, 2:08-cv-
12247-LPZ-VMM, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Michigan.  
 The fraud case is Alleman v. Park West Galleries Inc.,
2:09-cv-01716-RSL, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Washington (Seattle).  
 Oregon Sushi Bar Changes Name to Avoid Trademark Litigation  
 A sushi bar in Bend, Oregon, changed its name in settlement
of a trademark dispute with a Chinese restaurant in Lake Oswego,
Oregon, the BendBulletin.com reported.  
 The name was changed from “5 Spice Fusion & Sushi Bar” to
“5 Fusion & Sushi Bar,” the news Web site reported.  
 Five Spice Seafood + Wine Bar of Lake Oswego had objected
to the Bend restaurant name, saying multiple customers were
confused, as were some vendors, according to BendBulletin.com.  
 Although the two restaurants are 150 miles (241 kilometers)
apart, the Bend establishment’s owner was sufficiently concerned
about potential litigation costs that she decided “the best
option for us would be to modify our name slightly,” according
to the Web site.  
 Georgia Plans Legislation to Protect National Cheese Pastry  
 A law drafted by Georgia’s National Intellectual Property
Center is intended to provide trademark protection for
khachapuri, a cheese-filled pastry that is a national specialty,
the Eurasiannet.org news Web site reported.  
 Under the proposed law, producers from outside Georgia
would be permitted to make similar pastries and call them
khachapuri only if they use ingredients and cooking methods
specified by the IP center, according to the Web site.  
 IP protection will also be sought for a cheese that is the
key ingredient in khachapuri, and a plum sauce that is served
with beef, according to Eurasianet.org.  
 The new law would adopt the European Union’s Traditional
Specialty Guaranteed trademark protection for Georgia’s national
dishes, according to the Web site.  
 Copyright  
 Montreal Museum Halts Dzama Showing After Plagiarism Claims  
 The Montreal Museum of Contemporary Art stopped showing of
a film by Winnipeg native Marcel Dzama following allegations
that it contains plagiarized material from another director’s
film, the Toronto Globe and Mail reported.  
 The museum received a letter making the allegations with
reference to Dzama’s “The Lotus Eaters,’ a 19-minute black-and-
white film, according to the Globe and Mail.  
 The film was sent back to the David Zwirmer Gallery in New
York, which handles the artist’s work, the newspaper reported.  
 Dzama, whose work was shown in the 2006 biennial at the
Whitney Museum, showed the film initially at New York’s Museum
of Modern Art in 2006, according to the Globe & Mail.  
 University Technology Transfer  
 University of Illinois Licenses Less Costly Nanotechnology  
 The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign has licensed
university-developed nanotechnology to Hoowaki LLC, a Pendleton,
South Carolina-based startup, according to a university
statement.  
 Hoowaki, which specialized in surface-transformation
technology, is taking a license to inventions from the
laboratory of Professor William P. King of the university’s
school of Mechanical Science and Technology.  
 King’s research focuses on less-expensive materials and
processes for nanotechnology using industrial materials such as
glass, plastic, rubber, ceramic and metal. He is a named
inventor on a series of U.S. patents in the nanotechnology area
and is one of Hoowaki’s three founders, according to the company
Web site.  
 Terms of the licensing agreement weren’t disclosed.
According to the statement, one application of the technology is
the creation of super-hydrophobic materials that are self-
cleaning, reduce ice and mud buildup and can be used to increase
performance.  
 South Africa to Get Transfer Law to Commercialize Research  
 South Africa is enacting a new measure aimed at the
regulation of intellectual property resulting from publicly
funded research, the Digital Journal Web site reported.  
 The proposed regulations are to be posted on the Web site
of South Africa’s department of Science and Technology,
according to Digital Journal.  
 Among the issues the bill is intended to clarify is the
sale of university-developed IP to overseas companies “with no
benefit occurring to the university, the government or the South
African people,” Digital Journal reported.  
 If the university where the technology is developed isn’t
willing to patent and license it, under the new law the National
Intellectual Property Management Office can protect and
commercialize it on behalf of the nation, according to Digital
Journal.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        