-- Asian Stocks Decline on Greek Deficit, China Property Concerns; CSL Slumps
-- Kana Nishizawa
-- 2010-04-23T09:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/asian-stocks-fall-on-greek-deficit-concern-csl-slumps-honda-motor-rises.html

          
          
             Asian stocks fell, dragging the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index to its first weekly decline in four,
amid mounting concerns that Greece’s budget deficit and curbs on
China’s real-estate market will hurt global growth.  
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia lost 1.4 percent in Sydney,
leading finance companies lower. Greece is prepared to ask euro-
region governments for a bridge loan, a government official said.
China Resources Land Ltd. sank 3 percent in Hong Kong after the
Shanghai Securities News reported China may tax third homes
owned by individuals. CSL Ltd., the world’s No. 2 maker of
blood-plasma products, dropped 7.3 percent in Sydney after a U.S.
rival cut its profit forecast.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.4 percent to 125.78 as
of 6:39 p.m. in Tokyo. The gauge lost 1.9 percent this week
after the U.S. filed a lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and China stepped up measures to curb property prices.
Speculation mounted today that Group of 20 leaders meeting in
Washington will express concern Greece’s debt crisis will hurt
growth.
    “Government deficit concerns are weighing down the
market,” said Naoteru Teraoka, general manager at the
investment-management division of Tokyo-based Chuo Mitsui Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $23 billion. “The global
economy has recovered so much after the financial crisis, but it
still needs some fiscal support. Yet if they spend too much they
face sovereign risk. It’s a tough balance to hold.”  
 LG Display, Honda  
 Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index sank 1 percent, while the
Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.5 percent. Japan’s Nikkei 225
Stock Average lost 0.3 percent and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
declined 0.5 percent. Thailand’s SET Index fell 1.2 percent
after grenade blasts killed three people and injured at least 75
others at anti-government protests in Bangkok.  
 Among stocks that gained in Asia today, LG Display Co.
climbed 3.4 percent in Seoul after the company reported a fourth
straight quarterly profit. Honda Motor Co. gained 1.1 percent
after Nikkei English News said the company’s operating profit
probably jumped 90 percent.  
 Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.4
percent. The gauge gained 0.2 percent yesterday on speculation
Goldman Sachs will prevail after being sued by the government
and concern about financial regulation eased.  
 Financial companies were the biggest drag on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index amid sovereign debt concerns. Fitch Ratings said
yesterday Japan’s swelling debt burden may put pressure on the
nation’s AA rating.  
 Commonwealth Bank declined 1.4 percent to A$58.20.
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. dropped 1.4 percent to 501
yen in Tokyo., while Woori Finance Holdings Co. lost 0.8 percent
to 17,850 won in Seoul.  
 Bailout Package  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slumped to a 14-month low on
Feb. 8 as concern mounted that Greece’s debt problems will
derail the global recovery. The gauge has rallied 10 percent
since then amid speculation Greece will obtain an aid package.
Shares on the MSCI measure trade at an average of 1.63 times
book value, compared with about 1.5 times at the February low,
Bloomberg data show.  
 The European Union said yesterday Greece’s budget deficit
last year was worse than previously forecast and Moody’s
Investors Service cut the country’s creditworthiness.  
 Greece is prepared to ask euro-region governments for a
bridge loan as $11.3 billion in bonds come due next month,
according to a Greek government official who declined to be
identified because of official policy. G-20 finance chiefs
including European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
begin a day of talks at 9:30 a.m. in Washington.  
 Health-Care Stocks  
 “Chances are G-20 officials will discuss Greece because it
could lead to a global financial issue,” said Takashi Kudo,
general manager of market information at NTT SmartTrade Inc., a
unit of Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp., in Tokyo. “Markets
seem to be mounting pressure on Greece to get a bailout.”  
 A gauge of health-care stocks in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index slumped 1.8 percent, the most of 10 industry groups, after
Baxter International Inc., a U.S. maker of blood products and
vaccines, lowered its 2010 earnings forecast.  
 CSL slumped 7.3 percent to A$33.94 in Sydney, the biggest
decline on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Sysmex Corp., which
makes clinical-test equipment, lost 1.7 percent to 5,680 yen and
Daiichi Sankyo Co., a drugmaker, declined 2.2 percent to 1,631
yen in Tokyo.  
 In Hong Kong, property companies with ties to China fell
after the Shanghai Securities News reported the country may tax
third homes and additional properties owned by individuals. The
Hang Seng Index has lost 2.8 percent this week as China stepped
up measures to curb gains in property prices.  
 LG Display, Honda  
 China Resources Land slid 3 percent to HK$14.18. China
Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., controlled by the nation’s
construction ministry, declined 2.8 percent to HK$14.70.  
 “There clearly are concerns, notably in China, where
property has gotten frothy in some areas,” Timothy Moe, a
strategist at Goldman Sachs, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “The government is right to step in.”  
 Thailand’s SET Index posted the biggest drop among Asia’s
key stock gauges after the grenade blasts. Airports of Thailand
Pcl, the nation’s biggest airfield operator, fell 0.7 percent to
34 baht in Bangkok. Central Pattana Pcl, Thailand’s biggest
shopping mall operator, dropped 1.1 percent to 18.60 baht.  
 In Seoul, LG Display, the world’s second-largest maker of
liquid-crystal displays, advanced 3.4 percent to 45,450 won
after reporting its fourth-straight quarterly profit on rising
demand for flat-panel televisions and computer monitors.  
 Honda jumped 1.1 percent to 3,215 yen after Nikkei English
News said the automaker’s operating profit probably jumped 90
percent to 360 billion yen ($3.9 billion) for fiscal 2009. The
company said it’s not the source of the report.  
 “Expectations for good earnings are growing and people
appear to have a strong appetite for bargain hunting,” said
Juichi Wako, a senior strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings
Inc.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        