-- Asian Stocks Decline on Greek Deficit, China Property Concerns; CSL Slumps
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-04-23T22:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/asian-stocks-decline-on-greek-deficit-china-property-concerns-csl-slumps.html

          
          
             Asian stocks fell for the first
week in four as China boosted steps to cool property prices,
Greek debt worries resurfaced, and a U.S. suit against Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. raised concern bank regulation will increase.  
 China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest publicly traded
developer, sank 12 percent in Shenzhen. HSBC Holdings Plc,
Europe’s biggest bank, lost 4.1 percent in Hong Kong as U.K.
Prime Minister Gordon Brown called for an inquiry into Goldman
Sachs. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company,
declined 3.6 percent in Sydney as oil and metal prices slumped.
CSL Ltd., the world’s No. 2 maker of blood-plasma products,
plunged 8.4 percent after a rival cut its earnings forecast.  
 “The policy tightening in China will continue amid growing
concerns about asset bubbles,” said Daphne Roth, Singapore-
based head of Asian equity research at ABN Amro Private Banking,
which oversees about $21 billion in the region. “While economic
recovery is gaining momentum and earnings have been surprising
on the upside, regulatory headwinds are increasing.”  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 2.3 percent to 125.31 this
week as the European Union said Greece’s budget deficit last
year was worse than forecast. The gauge climbed in each of the
previous three weeks as better-than-estimated earnings and
economic data fueled confidence in the global recovery.  
 Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 1.7 percent this
week, while Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slipped 2.1 percent.
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index sank 2.8 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index retreated 5 percent.  
 China Vanke tumbled 12 percent to 7.93 yuan in Shenzhen.
Poly Real Estate Group Co. slumped 9.6 percent to 16.86 yuan in
Shanghai, while Agile Property Holdings Ltd., a Chinese
condominium developer, slid 12 percent to HK$8.46 in Hong Kong.  
 China Property  
 Property-related equities fell after China’s State Council
said banks should stop loans for third-home purchases in cities
with excessive property price gains, as well as suspend lending
to buyers unable to provide tax returns or proof of social-
security contributions in those areas.  
 “The market is worried about the impact of government
measures to tame property price increases,” Xu Lirong, who
oversees the equivalent of about $2.6 billion at Franklin
Templeton Sealand Fund Management Co. in Shanghai. “I think
more measures will be introduced.”  
 Goldman Probe  
 HSBC, which made 20 percent of its 2009 revenue in North
America, sank 4.1 percent to HK$81.10 in Hong Kong. In Sydney,
Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s second-biggest lender, lost
3.1 percent to A$27.30. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,
Japan’s largest bank by market value, declined 2.5 percent to
501 yen in Tokyo.  
 Goldman Sachs, the most-profitable Wall Street firm in
history, was facing a regulatory probe in Britain and scrutiny
from the German government after the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission sued the company for alleged fraud tied to
collateralized debt obligations.  
 “The Goldman inquiries have triggered a fresh wave of
anxiety for investors,” said Nader Naeimi, a strategist at AMP
Capital Investors Ltd. who helps oversee $90 billion for the
Sydney-based mutual-funds manager. “Not only is the market
worried who might be next, it’s anticipating tighter regulation
of the banking sector.”  
 Naeimi said widening probes of Goldman may trigger as much
as a 10 percent “correction” in global stock markets.  
 Credit Crisis  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index tumbled 39 percent from Sept.
15, 2008 to March 9, 2009, as the credit crisis caused the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and dragged the global
economy into its worst slowdown since World War II.  
 The gauge has since surged 77 percent. Companies on the
index are priced at an average of about 1.6 times book value,
down from April 15’s 1.7 times, which was the highest level
since August 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Asian stocks also fell this week as the euro area’s
widening deficit raised concern the global economic recovery
will falter. The European Union said April 22 that Greece’s
budget deficit last year was worse than previously forecast, and
Moody’s Investors Service cut the country’s creditworthiness.  
 “Investors are jittery about huge budget shortfalls, which
are deterring governments from offering further stimulus,” said
Juichi Wako, a strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 Healthcare-related companies and materials posted the
biggest declines on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index this week.  
 BHP, Australia’s biggest oil company, declined 3.6 percent
to A$41.97 in Sydney as a measure of metals traded in London
dropped 0.9 percent in the week.  
 Mitsubishi Corp., a Japanese commodities trading company,
dropped 5.5 percent to 2,297 yen in Tokyo. Cnooc Ltd., China’s
largest offshore energy explorer, retreated 3 percent to
HK$13.58 in Hong Kong.  
 In Sydney, CSL slumped 8.4 percent to A$33.94 after rival
Baxter International Inc. lowered its 2010 earnings forecast on
costs from the U.S. health-care overhaul. CSL gets 39 percent of
its revenue in the U.S., according to Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        