-- Asian Currencies Decline This Week on Greece Woes, Intervention Concerns
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-04-23T09:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/asian-currencies-decline-this-week-on-greece-woes-intervention-concerns.html

          
          
             India’s rupee and Taiwan’s dollar
posted the biggest losses among Asian currencies this week on
concern about Greece’s ability to tackle its deficit and
measures by central banks to curb appreciation.  
 Weakness in regional currencies was tempered after the
International Monetary Fund reiterated that Asia will lead the
global recovery this year, and said some countries should
embrace stronger exchange rates. Demand for the relative safety
of the dollar increased after the European Union revised its
estimate for Greece’s budget deficit higher and Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded the country’s credit ratings.  
 “The key issue is concern that the Greece developments
could trigger another round of global deleveraging, although it
is very remote at this stage,” said Enrico Tanuwidjaja, a
regional economist at OSK-DMG Group in Singapore. “But Asian
sentiment is positive.”  
 India’s rupee fell 0.3 percent this week to 44.46 per
dollar as of 5:27 p.m. in Singapore, the biggest five-day loss
since Feb. 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Taiwan dollar declined 0.2 percent to NT$31.46, retreating from
a 20-month high, on suspected intervention from the central bank
in late trading today.  
 The rupee slipped for a second week on speculation the
Reserve Bank of India will limit interest-rate increases to
temper strength in the currency, which is Asia’s second-best
performer this year. The central bank raised its benchmark
policy rates by a quarter-percentage point on April 20, a
smaller margin than some economists had forecast.  
 Carry Trade  
 “A sharp increase in rates would have encouraged the carry
trade,” said Roy Paul, a Mumbai-based deputy general manager at
Federal Bank Ltd. “This is an indication the central bank is
keeping the rupee’s strength in mind while formulating its
policies.”  
 Carry trades involve borrowing in lower-yielding currencies
to invest in assets that promise a higher return.  
 The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against
currencies of six major trading partners, rose 0.8 percent for
the week, the biggest gain this month. The euro dropped to its
lowest level in a year against its U.S. counterpart.  
 Greece began talks this week on activating an emergency-aid
package, and the IMF called the country’s fiscal crisis a
“wake-up call” on sovereign-debt risks. The Mediterranean
nation’s deficit was 13.6 percent of gross domestic product last
year, higher than the government’s April 7 forecast of 12.9
percent, the EU’s statistics office said.  
 Bond Inflows  
 Asian currencies have gained this year on prospects China
will resume appreciation in its currency and as the region leads
the global recovery, helping draw investors to higher-yielding
debt.  
 Emerging-market bond funds took in $1.28 billion in the
third week of April, a tally second only to the previous week’s
record $1.8 billion of inflows, EPFR Global said.  
 “Few other world currencies have matched up to Asia,”
said Rajeev de Mello, the Singapore-based head of Asian
investment at Western Asset Management Co., which oversees some
$482 billion. “That attracts a lot of investment in itself.”  
 Asia’s strengthening expansion, fueled by consumer spending
and investment in China and India, mean policy makers in several
countries should embrace stronger exchange rates, the IMF said
on April 21.  
 Yuan, G-20  
 Yuan forwards climbed this week on speculation officials
from the Group of 20 nations gathering in Washington today will
press China to resume appreciation in the currency.  
 “The market is expecting G-20 nations will add more
pressure on China to allow the yuan to rise,” said Liu
Dongliang, a Shenzhen-based analyst at China Merchants Bank Co.,
the country’s fifth-largest lender by market value.  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards were at 6.6108
per dollar, up 0.1 percent from last week. The contracts reflect
bets the currency will strengthen 3.3 percent from the spot rate
of 6.8275.  
 Taiwan’s dollar posting its first weekly loss in a month on
speculation the central bank intervened in the final minutes of
trading to counter appreciation that may hurt exporters.  
 The island’s currency rallied earlier in the day as
overseas investors pumped $127 million into local stocks. The
government today reported a seventh straight monthly increase in
industrial output and Vice Economic Minister Lin Sheng-Chung
said this year’s economic growth forecast may be raised.  
 “The central bank bought dollars,” said Joanna Tan, a
regional economist at Forecast Singapore Pte. “Today, they have
been slightly more aggressive. They don’t want the Taiwan dollar
to appreciate too fast. There are still foreign inflows.”  
 Elsewhere in Asia this week, Indonesia’s rupiah slipped 0.1
percent against the dollar to 9,013. The Philippine peso gained
0.2 percent to 44.325. The Singapore dollar and Malaysia’s
ringgit were both little changed at S$1.3722 and 3.1930,
respectively. Vietnam’s dong climbed 0.4 percent to 18,975.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Lui at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        