-- Massey Has Mines With More Citations Than Blast Site
-- Mario Parker
-- 2010-04-23T18:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/massey-has-three-mines-with-more-safety-citations-than-site-of-fatal-blast.html

          
          
             Massey Energy Co. has three mines
with more citations classified as “significant and
substantial” than its Upper Big Branch operation, where 29
people were killed in an explosion this month.  
 Three Massey mines are among the top 20 in the U.S. ranked
by the number of “significant and substantial” violations
accrued since January 2009, according to the U.S. Labor
Department’s Mine Safety and Health Administration. Consol
Energy Corp., based in Pittsburgh, had three of the four mines
with the most S&S violations and seven of the top 20.  
 Significant and substantial, or “S&S,” violations are
those that are “reasonably likely to result in a reasonably
serious injury or illness under the unique circumstance
contributed to by the violations,” according to MSHA.  
 “That means the operator is taking a higher risk than he
should be,” said Robert Ferriter, a 27-year veteran of MSHA now
with the mine safety program at the Colorado School of Mines in
Golden, Colorado. “You’re putting your miners in more dangerous
conditions.”  
 Massey’s Upper Big Branch mine in Montcoal, West Virginia,
the site of the worst U.S. coal mining disaster in 40 years, had
238 S&S violations, two fewer than the 20th-ranked mine.  
 The explosion has brought calls to tighten mine safety,
with President Barack Obama last week ordering a crackdown on
violations. Last weekend MSHA began an “inspection blitz” on
57 coal mines that have had significant or repeat violations.  
 Joe Main, the top U.S. mine-safety regulator, will testify
April 27 at the first congressional hearing on industry
oversight since the blast.  
 ‘Sooner or Later’  
 “If you continue to run red lights sooner or later someone
is going to hit you or you’re going to hit something else or
you’re going to mess up,” Ferriter said. “Sooner or later
you’re going to pay the price.”  
 Massey’s Mine No. 1 in Pike County, Kentucky, has 318 S&S
violations. Its Ruby Energy operation in Mingo County, West
Virginia, has 288 and Tiller No. 1 in Tazewell County, Virginia,
has 276.  
 The Richmond, Virginia-based company on April 21 said it
expects a second-quarter charge of as much as $212 million for
the accident, more than twice its 2009 earnings. Several
telephone messages and e-mails to Jeff Gillenwater, a Massey
spokesman, weren’t returned.  
 “Investors in this industry recognize that this is a very
regulated industry,” said Michael Dudas, an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in New York. “Generally there will be more
scrutiny based upon underground coal mining than there was
before.”  
 Consol Mine Tops List  
 Consol’s McElroy mine in Marshall County, West Virginia,
has the most S&S violations with 577, followed by Peabody Energy
Corp.’s Air Quality No. 1 coal mine in Knox County, Indiana,
with 497.  
 Consol’s Buchanan mine in Buchanan County, Virginia, and
its Loveridge No. 22 operation in Marion County, West Virginia,
are third and fourth in S&S citations, with 450 and 365,
according to MSHA data.  
 “Safety and compliance are paramount at Consol,” said
Joseph Cerenzia, a company spokesman. “Citations are not
indicative of the safety of a mine.”  
 Consol corrects all violations, including those it appeals
to MSHA, Cerenzia said.  
 Peabody Changes  
 Peabody, based in St. Louis, instituted changes at Air
Quality No. 1 that led to an 84 percent reduction in S&S
citations and received a letter from MSHA noting its progress,
said Beth Sutton, a Peabody spokeswoman. She said the mine
“achieved a 65 percent improvement in the number of citations
overall on an annualized basis.”  
 Peabody’s Willow Lake Portal mine in Saline County,
Illinois, is fifth with 326. Sutton said changes at that mine
have resulted in a 38 percent improvement in the number of S&S
violations on an annualized basis.  
 Patriot Coal Corp., the fourth-largest eastern U.S. coal
company, has two operations among the top 20 by S&S citations.  
 The St. Louis-based company’s Highland 9 mine in Union
County, Kentucky, has 315 S&S violations and its American Eagle
operation in Kanawha County, West Virginia, has 243. Janine Orf,
a spokeswoman for Patriot, didn’t return several telephone
messages seeking comment.  
 Alliance Mine  
 Alliance Resource Partners LP’s Dotiki mine in Nebo,
Kentucky, has accumulated 321 S&S violations to rank seventh.
The Tulsa, Oklahoma-based mining company has operations in five
U.S. states.  
 “It is critical that people understand that we immediately
address hazardous references in any MSHA citation without
fail,” said Brian Cantrell, a spokesman for Alliance.  
 Alpha Natural Resources Inc., the third-biggest U.S. coal
producer, had one operation among the top 20, the Camp Creek
mine in Wayne County, West Virginia. The Abingdon, Virginia-
based company collected 260 to rank 18th.  
 Producers can expect costs to rise amid increased scrutiny,
Ferriter said.  
 “That will definitely slow down productivity,” he said.
“You’re going to take the time to do it right, knowing that
someone’s looking over your shoulder.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        