-- Astellas Extends Takeover Offer Deadline for OSI Pharmaceuticals to May 17
-- Go Onomitsu
-- 2010-04-23T08:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/astellas-extends-takeover-offer-deadline-for-osi-pharmaceuticals-to-may-17.html

          
          
             Astellas Pharma Inc. extended its
$3.5 billion unsolicited offer for OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. a
second time as less than 1 percent of shares were tendered.  
 The offer will close May 17 instead of today, Tokyo-based
Astellas said in a statement.  
 Astellas’s offer, maintained at $52 a share, remains below
OSI’s current share price, after the stock surged 58 percent
since the Japanese drugmaker announced the takeover bid on March
1. The acquisition would give Astellas its first marketed cancer
drug, Tarceva, which Melville, New York-based OSI projects will
have revenue of $7 billion through 2020.  
 The Japanese drugmaker’s shares fell 1.3 percent to close
at 3,320 yen in Tokyo before its announcement. OSI dropped 1.3
percent to $58.66 in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading
yesterday.  
 Astellas said it received acceptances for 42,283 OSI shares,
or a 0.07 percent stake, as of 4 p.m. New York time April 22.
Investors had agreed to tender 0.06 percent of OSI shares at the
original deadline of March 31, prompting Astellas to extend the
offer by three weeks at that time.  
 Astellas has said it won’t buy shares of the U.S. company
until May 15, as part of an agreement announced on March 29 that
OSI would share financial information with the Japanese
drugmaker along with other parties.  
 Cancer Drug Revenue  
 Tarceva, a treatment for advanced non-small-cell lung
cancer and pancreatic tumors, generated $1.6 billion in revenue
for OSI and its Basel, Switzerland-based partner Roche Holding
AG in 2009. OSI’s sales relating to Tarceva totaled $359 million,
accounting for about 84 percent of revenue.  
 U.S. regulators approved the drug on April 16 for use as an
initial maintenance treatment for non-small-cell lung cancer,
the most common form of the malignancy, spurring analyst
expectations that Astellas would increase its offer. A drug is
usually given as maintenance therapy to control symptoms or
progression of cancer after initial treatment.  
 The Japanese drugmaker will likely acquire OSI at or near
$60 a share, Bret Holley, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co.,
wrote in an April 19 report. Astellas said that day it had
factored in the wider use of Tarceva for its $52-a-share offer.  
 Astellas has committed to spending more than $1 billion
since October last year to gain rights to experimental cancer
treatments. The company identified cancer as a focus to
replenish sales lost since patent protection expired in August
for its biggest drug, Prograf. The medicine, for organ-
transplant patients, generated $2 billion last fiscal year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 Kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Go Onomitsu in Tokyo at 
 gonomitsu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        