-- Australian Dollar Weakens as RBA's Stevens Says Rates Are Close to Average
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-04-23T14:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/australian-dollar-weakens-as-rba-s-stevens-says-rates-are-close-to-average.html

          
          
             The Australian dollar fell the most
in a week against the U.S. currency after central bank Governor
Glenn Stevens said interest rates are “close to average,”
damping speculation he will raise borrowing costs.  
 Australia’s currency weakened versus most of its 16 major
counterparts after Stevens said policy makers are focused on
ensuring the economic rebound is durable. New Zealand’s dollar
gained as Greece called for activation of a financial lifeline
of as much as 45 billion euros ($60 billion), easing concern the
nation will struggle to repay short-term debt.  
 “There was one line” in Stevens’s statement “that says
interest rates are now pretty close to average, and that has
seen the Australian dollar come off,” said Robert Rennie, head
of currency research in Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp., the
nation’s second-largest lender. “What is important to the
market in the short term is what’s the outlook for interest
rates.”  
 Australia’s currency fell 0.6 percent, the most since April
16, to 92.17 U.S. cents at 10:50 a.m. in New York, from 92.75
cents yesterday. The currency was little changed at 86.77 yen.
For the week, it dropped 0.3 percent against the greenback and
appreciated 1.9 percent versus the yen.  
 New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to 71.33 U.S. cents,
from 71.09 cents, after earlier falling 0.3 percent. It climbed
1.1 percent to 67.18 yen, from 66.46 yen. For the week, the kiwi
rose 0.7 percent against the greenback and gained 2.9 percent
versus the yen. It advanced 1 percent today to NZ$1.2917 per
Australian dollar.  
 ‘Close to Trend’  
 If Australia’s economy “is growing close to trend, and
inflation is close to target, one would expect interest rates to
be pretty close to average,” Stevens said in an address to the
Regional Business Leaders Forum at the University of Southern
Queensland. “Those interest rates are now pretty close to that
average.”  
 Australian consumer prices rose 0.8 percent in the first
quarter, after gaining 0.5 percent in the previous three months,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before the government
reports the figure on April 28.  
 Benchmark interest rates are 4.25 percent in Australia and
2.5 percent in New Zealand, compared with 0.1 percent in Japan
and as low as zero in the U.S., attracting investors to the
South Pacific nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such
trades is that currency market moves will erase profits.  
 Greece’s appeal for help from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund followed a surge in borrowing costs
to what Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou called
unsustainable levels that undermined efforts to cut a budget
deficit of more than four times the EU limit. Greek bonds and
stocks rallied after the announcement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        