-- Australia's Stevens Signals Inflation Figures Key to Interest-Rate Moves
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-04-23T05:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/australia-s-stevens-signals-inflation-figures-key-to-interest-rate-moves.html

          
          
             Australia’s central bank,
responsible for the world’s most aggressive round of interest-
rate increases, is balancing the risk of faster inflation
against keeping borrowing costs close “to normal” and renewed
concern about Greek sovereign debt, Governor Glenn Stevens said.  
 “Our task is now to manage a new economic upswing,”
Stevens said in an address today to the Regional Business
Leaders Forum at the University of Southern Queensland in
Toowoomba, Australia. “This will be just as challenging, in its
own way, as managing the downturn.”  
 Investors pared bets on the prospect of an increase in
borrowing costs at the central bank’s next meeting in early May
after Stevens said lending rates are already ”pretty close” to
average. Stevens also suggested a report to be published next
week on first-quarter inflation will be a key factor in helping
policy makers decide on their next move.  
 “After five hikes in the last seven months, the Reserve
Bank appears more comfortable with the level of cash and
mortgage rates,” said Su-Lin Ong, an economist at RBC Capital
Markets in Sydney. Stevens’ speech “hints at a bank that may
want to assess the impact of its policy decisions to date,”
particularly on consumer spending, which has cooled in recent
months, Ong said.  
 “This could change, however, if the first-quarter consumer
price index surprises to the upside” next week, Ong added.  
 Yields Fall  
 The Australian dollar traded at 92.18 U.S. cents at 2:41
p.m. in Sydney from 92.56 cents just before the speech was
published. The two-year government bond yield fell 4 basis
points to 5 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Traders bet there is a 24 percent chance of a quarter-point
rate increase when the central bank next meets on May 4,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures
on the Sydney Futures Exchange at 2:33 p.m. That compares with
28 percent before the governor’s speech.  
 Stevens has led Group of 20 policy makers in raising
borrowing costs, increasing the Reserve Bank’s benchmark rate by
125 basis points to 4.25 percent between early October and this
month amid evidence economic growth is rebounding to what the
governor calls its “trend rate.”  
 The central bank will issue revised forecasts for economic
growth and consumer-price gains a week after the bureau of
statistics releases first-quarter inflation figures on April 28.  
 Stevens said consumer-price growth has fallen from its peak
of 5 percent in 2008 to about 2 percent last year, a “figure
that flatters us a bit as it was partly a result of some
temporary factors.”  
 Inflation Forecasts  
 Underlying inflation was about 2.75 percent, annualized, in
the second half of 2009, according to the central bank.  
 “Our forecast a few months ago for 2010 was that inflation,
measured either in headline or underlying terms, would be in
line with our 2 percent to 3 percent target,” Stevens said.
“Next week’s figure will provide an insight into how things are
tracking relative to that forecast.”  
 The consumer price index rose 0.8 percent in the three
months through March from a year earlier, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News today.  
 The governor also said it “doesn’t seem very likely”
inflation will slip below the bank’s target range of 2 percent
to 3 percent, as forecast a year ago, because of rising raw-
material costs, employment and fears about skills shortages.  
 ‘Close to Average’  
 “If the economy is growing close to trend, and inflation
is close to target, one would expect interest rates to be pretty
close to average,” Stevens said. “The Reserve Bank has moved
early to raise the cash rate to levels that deliver interest
rates for borrowers and depositors more like those that have
been the average experience over the past 10 to 12 years. Those
interest rates are now pretty close to that average.”  
 Currency and interest-rate futures markets took those
remarks “as a dovish signal,” said Annette Beacher, a senior
economist at TD Securities Ltd. in Singapore. Still, we “don’t
think the RBA has finished adjusting the cash rate” toward a
“mildly restrictive” level ahead of a return to full
employment, she said.  
 Stevens also defended the pace of his interest-rate
increases since early October, when the benchmark rate was at a
half-century low of 3 percent.  
 “These increases have been fairly close together, but then
so were the preceding reductions,” the governor said.  
 ‘Timely Movement’  
 Policy makers slashed the benchmark rate following the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 by
375 basis points within five months.  
 By contrast, the bank has boosted the cash rate by 125
basis points over seven months, “which is still only about a
third of the pace of the earlier declines,” Stevens said.  
 “The aggressive reduction in interest rates needed to be
complemented by the timely movement in the other direction, once
the emergency had passed,” he said. That was to “establish a
general level of interest rates more in keeping with the better
economic outlook.”  
 Stevens also said the focus on sovereign risk “will be a
feature for some time yet.” In the bank’s April 6 statement,
after it raised borrowing costs, Stevens said those concerns
“appear to have been contained at this stage.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Toowoomba at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Glenn Stevens, governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia, speaks at the Economic Conditions Forum in Toowoomba, Australia, on April 23, 2010. Photographer: Eric Taylor/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
