-- Axel Springer Plans to Sell Shares to Make the Company More `Attractive'
-- Claudia Rach
-- 2010-04-23T14:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/axel-springer-plans-to-sell-shares-to-make-the-company-more-attractive-.html

          
          
             Axel Springer AG plans to sell
shares it holds to increase its free float and make Europe’s
biggest newspaper publisher more attractive for investors.  
 The company plans to place as many as 2.93 million shares,
representing about 8.9 percent of the share capital, to
institutional investors, Berlin-based Axel Springer said today
in a statement. Investor Deutsche Bank AG will also
simultaneously sell about 2.75 million shares in Axel Springer.  
 The sale may increase the free float of the stock to beyond
40 percent from 23 percent and “make our company more
attractive,” Chief Executive Officer Mathias Doepfner said
today at the annual shareholder meeting in Berlin. He said the
move would help the stock market reflect the “real value” of
the company.  
 “This is very good news,” DZ Bank analyst Harald Heider,
who recommends buying Axel Springer shares, said in a note
today, adding that the step will allow the company to join the
MDAX Index soon. “Large index oriented funds will have to track
the share and it is investable by institutional investors.”  
 The sale will also generate additional cash, allowing the
company to eliminate net debt and give it “headroom for further
attractive investments in the digital and international
marketplaces,” Heider said.  
 The share placement may take place in May, Chief Financial
Officer Lothar Lanz said at the shareholder meeting, adding that
the current market allows an “attractive price.” The sale may
raise the trading volume, “clearly” increasing the company’s
chances to have its shares listed on the MDAX Index in
September, Lanz said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Rach in Berlin at 
 crach1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        