-- Baghdad Bombings Target Shiite Districts; 54 Killed
-- Caroline Alexander
-- 2010-04-23T15:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/baghdad-bombings-leave-45-people-dead-90-injured-al-arabiya-reports.html

          
          
             Bombings across Baghdad targeted
Shiite Muslims, killing at least 54 people and wounding 180,
days after U.S. and Iraqi officials said they had killed al-
Qaeda’s two most senior leaders in the country.  
 Among the locations hit was an office of the Sadr Trend,
the political group of anti-U.S. Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr,
in the eastern district of Sadr City, state-owned al-Iraqiya
television said. The attacks, which included car bombs and
improvised explosive devices, also took place in four other
areas in the south, north and center of the capital.  
 U.S. and Iraqi forces said they killed al-Qaeda’s Abu Omar
al-Baghdadi and Abu Ayoub al-Masri in a joint raid on their
desert hideout on April 18. Vice President Joe Biden said the
operation was a milestone that “demonstrates the improved
security, strength and capacity of Iraqi security forces” as
the U.S. prepares to withdraw combat units by the end of August.  
 Iraqi military spokesman Major General Qassim Atta
yesterday disclosed the arrest in the capital six weeks ago of
al-Qaeda’s Baghdad chief, Manaf Abdul Raheem al-Rawi. He said
the detention had led to the capture and killing of scores of
the group’s leaders and fighters, including al-Baghdadi and al-
Masri. He warned the group would probably seek reprisals.  
 Interior Minister Jawad Bolani late yesterday called on all
remaining al-Qaeda fighters to hand themselves in, promising
them humane treatment and a fair trial, according to al-Iraqiya.  
 Political Vacuum  
 Iraq’s biggest political parties continue to vie for the
right to form the next government and name a new prime minister,
after parliamentary elections on March 7 delivered no clear
winner. Iraqi National Security Adviser Mowaffaq al-Rubaie has
said insurgents are trying to exploit the political vacuum.  
 One of the bombs today went off in al-Amin, in the south of
the capital, at a building used for prayer. The southern
district of Dura, the northern area of al-Hurriya and al-
Rahmaniya, in the center, also were hit, al-Iraqiya said. The
broadcaster aired video of burned cars and buses, and crowds
gathering around victims lying in pools of blood.  
 Al-Qaeda has targeted Shiites areas and places of prayer
before in a bid to enflame sectarian tensions between Iraq’s
Shiite and Sunni Muslims. The violence today bears the group’s
signature, Terry Pattar, coordinator of the Iraq Focus Group at
IHS Consulting in London, said in an interview.  
 ‘Less Centralized’  
 The recent killings and arrests of senior al-Qaeda leaders
suggest “the group is more dispersed and less centralized” than
thought and don’t seem to have disrupted “its operational
capability,” Pattar said. “Its agendas and goals are clear, so
it’s easy for someone to step into those leadership roles.”  
 A wave of attacks earlier this month left about 100 people
dead. They included an April 3 assault on embassies in Baghdad
that killed 30. The violence hasn’t reached the levels of 2006,
when the country tipped toward civil war.  
 In commenting on the deaths of the al-Qaeda members, Biden
said that to consolidate security gains the next step for Iraqi
leaders is to form “an inclusive and representative
government.”  
 No group won a majority of the 325 seats at stake in
elections. Former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi’s secular and
Sunni-backed Iraqiya bloc won 91 seats, two more than Prime
Minister Nouri al-Maliki’s Shiite State of Law group.  
 Iraq has the world’s third-largest oil reserves. Crude oil
for June delivery rose 46 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $84.16 a
barrel at 10:49 a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The
June contract is down 0.6 percent this week. Brent crude oil for
June settlement increased 70 cents to $86.37 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Iraqis look at a vehicules destroyed when a car bomb exploded in the  Baghdad district of Sadr City on April 23, 2010. Photographer: Ahmad Al-Rubaye/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
