-- Swiss Stocks Advance, Led by Gains by Richemont, ABB, Swatch and Lonza
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-04-23T10:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/baloise-credit-suisse-kuoni-reisen-novartis-zfs-swiss-stock-preview.html

          
          
             Swiss stocks rose, rebounding from
two days of losses, as luxury-goods companies and ABB Ltd.
gained and a report showed business confidence in Germany at a
two-year high.  
 Cie. Financiere Richemont SA rose 3 percent and Swatch
Group AG increased 2.5 percent after Kepler Capital Markets
lifted its price estimates for both shares. ABB pared
yesterday’s 8 percent loss as BofA-Merrill Lynch Global Research
expects the company “to show superior growth to other capital
goods groups over the medium term.” Lonza Group AG rose 1.8
percent after Helvea SA suggested investors buy the shares.  
 The Swiss Market Index, a gauge of the biggest and most
actively traded Swiss companies, gained 33.90, or 0.5 percent,
to 6,753.99 as of 11:55 a.m. in Zurich. The measure has lost 2
percent this week as the euro area’s budget deficit widened to
more than double the European Union’s 3 percent limit in 2009,
led by Greece and Ireland. The broader Swiss Performance Index
also rose 0.6 percent today.  
 “Yesterday’s steep decline was not justified on
fundamentals,” said Giorgio Mascherone, chief investment
officer at Deutsche Bank AG in Milan. “Still, we have to get
used to sudden movements stemming from news flow on budget
deficits. Today’s Ifo confirms the economy is recovering, above
all with regard to export-driven countries.”  
 German Confidence  
 The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 101.6
from 98.2 in March. Economists expected a gain to 98.7,
according to the median of 37 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey.  
 Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou plans to ask the
European Union for a rescue package today, said a Greek
government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  
 Richemont gained 3 percent to 41.17 francs. Kepler lifted
its price estimate on the luxury-goods company to 52 francs from
42 francs and kept a “buy” rating because of “the rebound in
retail sales in key markets” and “strong watch export data.”  
 Swatch increased 2.5 percent to 333.60 francs. The world’s
biggest watchmaker had its price projection lifted to 365 francs
from 350 francs at Kepler, which reiterated a “buy”
recommendation.  
 ABB advanced 2.7 percent to 22.44 Swiss francs. While
first-quarter results were “weak,” base orders “improved 15
percent sequentially and March showed more positive trends in
all divisions,” BofA-Merrill Lynch wrote in a note today. The
brokerage also said the world’s largest builder of electricity
networks offers “one of the better long-term growth profiles in
the industry.”  
 Lonza, Straumann  
 Lonza rose 1.8 percent to 83.05 francs as Helvea upgraded
the world’s largest maker of drug ingredients to “buy” from
“accumulate,” citing “encouraging signs.”  
 Straumann Holding AG advanced 1.1 percent to 267 francs.
Piper Jaffray upgraded the maker of dental implants to
“neutral” from “underweight.” The brokerage cited
“improving trends in the dental implant market” along with
“signs of stabilization in the U.S.”  
 Meyer Burger Technology AG advanced 3 percent to 27.6
francs. The maker of industrial cutting equipment completed the
acquisition of the remaining 34 percent stake in Germany’s
Hennecke Systems GmbH. The plan to purchase the stake was
announced on March 19. Helvea reiterated an “accumulate”
rating, saying that “the company is making swift progress
towards becoming a top-tier solar-equipment manufacturer.”  
 Gottex Fund Management Holdings Ltd. retreated 3 percent to
8.10 francs. The Anglo-Swiss money manager said total fee-
earning assets slipped to $7.9 billion at the end of March, from
$8.1 billion three months earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        