-- Community Bankers Fight to Keep Fed Oversight
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-04-23T20:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/banker-to-bikers-fights-wildly-risky-dodd-plan-to-pare-fed-supervision.html

          
          
             The Federal Reserve’s independence
may rest in the hands of people like Ralph Larry Lyons, chief
executive officer of Central Virginia Bankshares Inc., with
assets of $473 million.  
 Lyons is among the hundreds of community bankers lobbying
Congress to keep the Fed as their regulator. A bill sponsored by
Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd of
Connecticut would limit the Fed’s authority to 36 of the
country’s largest banks, those with assets of at least $50
billion, tying the Fed nameplate to firms such as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 “It would be a shame for the Federal Reserve to lose the
community-bank perspective,” says Lyons, 61, whose bank is in
Powhatan County, about 30 miles from Richmond. The county is
home to 28,000 people, 27 Baptist churches and the Sons of the
South motorcycle club -- whose president, Joe Svedics, is a
customer of the bank.  
 Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, 56, has said the Dodd bill
would turn the Fed into “the too-big-to-fail regulator” and
limit the flow of information from small lenders that the Fed
uses to keep its finger on the pulse of the economy. Narrowing
the central bank’s purview to the largest firms would also
weaken it politically, making it harder to deflect efforts in
Congress to limit its power or interfere in interest-rate
decisions, says Fed historian Allan Meltzer.  
 “They need constituents, they need people to support
them,” says Meltzer, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University
in Pittsburgh. “They have bankers in every district. That has
been very important in guarding them against Congress.”  
 ‘Wildly Risky’  
 Binding the Fed closer to Wall Street institutions at a
time of public outrage over the cost of taxpayer bailouts would
be “wildly risky,” St. Louis Fed President James Bullard, 49,
said in an interview. He called the proposal a “step in the
wrong direction.”  
 A Bloomberg News poll last month found that 57 percent of
Americans have a mostly unfavorable or very unfavorable view of
Wall Street. The poll of 1,002 adults was conducted March 19-22
by Selzer & Co. of Des Moines, Iowa and has a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  
 The Fed is counting on support from 844 state-member banks
and a handful of mostly Republican senators. The American
Bankers Association and the Independent Community Bankers of
America are contacting legislators to argue in favor of
preserving a role for the Fed.  
 Procedural Vote  
 The Dodd bill is scheduled for a procedural vote on April
26. Republican Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas and
Richard Shelby of Alabama, the Senate Banking Committee’s
ranking Republican, both say they oppose stripping the Fed of
state-member bank supervision.  
 “If it isn’t in the final bill, I will certainly have an
amendment that assures that state banks and community banks will
be able to have access to be members of the Federal Reserve,”
Hutchison told reporters April 21.  
 Dodd’s bill was approved by the Senate Banking Committee
without a single Republican vote. It would set up a new consumer
financial protection unit within the Fed, strengthen oversight
of derivatives and hedge funds and create a mechanism to
dismantle systemically important financial firms when they fail.  
 Dodd could attract more support for his bill by yielding on
the issue of small-bank supervision, Senator Bob Corker, a
Tennessee Republican and member of the banking committee, told
reporters this week.  
 If Dodd has “the Fed getting back all the small banks, he
picks up a lot of people” to support the bill, he said.  
 Dodd has criticized the Fed’s record on banking supervision
and consumer protection, calling at “an abysmal failure.”  
 Core Functions  
 “The Fed needs to get back to its core functions --
monetary policy, the payments system,” Dodd told Bloomberg
Television April 21. Giving the Fed small-bank supervision “is
a 19th century idea.”  
 Senator Mark Warner said it is very likely lawmakers will
reach a bipartisan compromise on a financial-overhaul bill.
    “It’s awful hard, 18 months after the meltdown, not to be
in favor of financial reform,” Warner, a Virginia Democrat,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with Al Hunt” being broadcast this weekend.  
 Lyons and almost 1,000 other bankers converged on Capitol
Hill on March 17 armed with talking points. Their message: The
Fed should keep its power to regulate smaller state-chartered
banks to avoid developing a bias toward Wall Street firms.  
 Primary Regulator  
 “Your primary regulator knows your bank, knows your risk
profile, knows how you operate because they’ve examined you for
years,” said Bruce Whitehurst, president of the Virginia
Bankers Association. “You go to a new regulator, it’s almost
like having a new bank.”  
 Small banks are lobbying for the Fed because they don’t
want one of the nation’s top financial rule-makers to lose sight
of the impact of their decisions on community lenders. Laurence
Meyer, a former Fed governor who is now vice chairman at St.
Louis-based Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, says the Fed is “very
sensitive” to how its rulemaking might disadvantage this “very
important constituency.”  
 Bernanke told House legislators last month that the Fed
wants “a connection to Main Street, as well as to Wall
Street.” Small and medium-sized banks “provide irreplaceable
information, both in terms of making monetary policy, in terms
of us understanding the economy,” he said.  
 Vincent Reinhart, former director of the Federal Reserve
Board’s Division of Monetary Affairs, doesn’t buy that argument.  
 Sharing Information  
 The Fed would have no problem conducting its economic
analysis if there were statutes requiring other supervisory
agencies to share information with the central bank, he says.
What’s more, the failure of Fed-supervised banks would threaten
to tarnish its “reputational glow.”  
 Fed officials say they have used data from small banks to
track risks throughout the economy.  
 Officials are culling information on loan portfolios across
the country to analyze the dangers of souring commercial real
estate loans.  
 To determine whether Wall Street firms were chasing yet
another asset-price bubble during a surge in commodities prices
late last year, the Fed tapped its network of examiners from the
12 regional Fed banks. Banks specializing in agricultural
lending were asked to assess whether crop outlooks fit the price
performance of futures contracts.  
 District Economies  
 “Our country is so incredibly large and diverse
economically,” Jeffrey Lacker, 54, president of the
Richmond Fed, said in an interview. “Community banks have been
really crucial to the way reserve banks have historically been
connected to their district economies.”  
 The Fed’s supervisory scrutiny hasn’t overlooked Central
Virginia Bankshares, even though Lyons, its chief executive,
worked at the Richmond Fed as a bank examiner in the 1970s.  
 The bank disclosed in a regulatory filing that it expects
to enter into a “written agreement” with the Fed to strengthen
the management of its commercial real-estate portfolio and come
up with “a written plan to maintain sufficient capital.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photo of Joe Svedics, president of Sons of the South motorcycle club, with his prize-winning 1951 Harley Davidson panhead chopper in Powhatan, Virginia. Svedics is a local business owner and account holder at Central Virginia Bankshares. Photographer: Diana Svedics via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Members of the Sons of the South motorcycle club display their patches in Powhatan, Virginia on April 2, 2010. Photographer: Diana Svedics via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
