-- Bank of England Bond-Buying Plan Risks Inflation Credibility, Besley Says
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-04-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/bank-of-england-s-bond-plan-risks-inflation-credibility-besley-says.html

          
          
             The Bank of England’s bond-purchase
program may jeopardize its inflation-targeting credibility
because it blurs the divide between fiscal and monetary policy,
former central bank policy maker Timothy Besley said.  
 The 200 billion-pound ($307 billion) program has made the
bank a creditor of the government and allowed the Treasury an
element of oversight over its decisions, diminishing its
independence, Besley and co-author economist Kevin Sheedy wrote
in a paper published today. The focus of the plan on gilt
purchases also has given the bank a goal of supporting the
government bond market.  
 Multiple policy commitments may undermine the public’s
perception that the bank is committed to holding annual gains in
consumer prices at 2 percent, the authors said. The bank’s
inflation-targeting framework may come under pressure as the
economy struggles to emerge from the recession, they said.  
 “In a volatile environment, with this mixture of monetary,
fiscal and financial policy, is it so clear that the BOE will
continue to focus exclusively on 2 percent CPI inflation?”
Sheedy said at an event yesterday at the National Institute for
Economic and Social Research in London. “Inflation targeting
depends not so much on that separation being achieved but the
public believing that it’s going to be achieved going forward,
and that’s where the greatest risk lies.”  
 In their paper, Besley and Sheedy said that the past three
years “have thrown up challenges that have yet to be
resolved.”  
 “It may be that we can hang on and hope that the tide will
recede so that the lines in the sand can be redrawn,” they
said, referring to the separation of monetary policy from fiscal
policy and financial regulation. “But more likely the waters
will remain turbulent, creating a need for a more fundamental
rethink of some aspects of policy.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        