-- Eni, BG Oil Venture Said to Face $2.5 Billion of Kazakh Government Claims
-- Nariman Gizitdinov
-- 2010-04-23T13:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/bg-eni-oil-venture-said-to-face-2-5-billion-of-kazakh-government-claims.html

          
          
             The Kazakh government is demanding
at least $2.5 billion from an oil venture led by BG Group Plc
and Eni SpA after talks stalled on the state’s entry into the
project, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  
 The Central Asian state slapped the venture, Karachaganak
Petroleum Operating BV, with tax and environmental claims last
year, and sued for “illegal earnings” this year, after the
producer demanded $1.4 billion in tax rebates, said the people,
who declined to be identified before a settlement.  
 Kazakhstan is aiming to gain more revenue from resource
projects developed under production-sharing agreements, which
allow investors to recoup costs before the government profits.
Karachaganak is the only major Kazakh oil development without
state participation.  
 The dispute mirrors changes at the Kashagan project, the
country’s biggest oil development. In 2008, partners led by Eni
agreed to pay higher royalties and cede shares to state-run
KazMunaiGaz National Co. after the government condemned cost
overruns and delays. The phase that runs from 2002 to 2014 may
cost more than $38 billion.  
 “Investors are getting more and more concerned,” said Ana
Jelenkovic, a London-based analyst at Eurasia Group, a political
risk consulting company. “There’s going to be increasing noise
from international companies but ultimately it’s not that
shocking anymore what the government is doing.”  
 Amicable Resolution  
 The Karachaganak partners want to understand the basis of
the Kazakh claims and resolve the dispute amicably, said a
person familiar with their plans, who declined to be identified
before the issues are settled.  
 Kazakhstan expects the venture to decide on the third-phase
expansion at a cost of $14.5 billion, KazMunaiGaz said in
February. In 2007, BG estimated the expansion would cost $8
billion by 2012.  
 Francesca Ciardiello, a spokeswoman for Karachaganak
Petroleum in Aksai, Kazakhstan, declined to comment on the
figures in an e-mailed response to questions, saying “there are
various issues that are currently under negotiation or
investigation.” BG spokesman Neil Burrows referred questions to
the venture. Eni spokesman Filippo Cotalini declined to
immediately comment.  
 The government aims to eliminate many of the benefits
provided by PSAs, which were signed before KazMunaiGaz was
created, Jelenkovic said in a telephone interview. “There
aren’t a lot of ways to influence the international consortium
except by legislative and regulatory tools.”  
 Before the 2008 Kashagan agreement, Kazakh regulators filed
environmental complaints against the project, while legislators
passed amendments to the subsoil law allowing the state to annul
contracts unilaterally.  
 ‘Illegal Earnings’  
 Last year, the government prepared $1.8 billion of
arbitration claims based on environmental damages, back taxes
and fines against Karachaganak Petroleum, the two people said.  
 Investigators are also probing “illegal earnings” of 104
billion tenge ($709 million) for 2008 oil output that hadn’t
been approved by the state, Kazakhstan’s economic crimes agency
said last month.  
 The total claims exceed the amount the government faced
paying Karachaganak in tax rebates and a possible $1 billion for
a 10 percent stake in the project, the two people said. The
venture suspended its tax case in December in favor of
negotiations, they said.  
 Neither Karachaganak nor its shareholders are in talks with
the government about altering the percentage ownership in the
venture, Ciardiello said.  
 Stake or Taxes  
 BG Group, based in Reading, England, and Italy’s Eni are
the largest shareholders in Karachaganak Petroleum, each with a
32.5 percent stake, while Chevron Corp. has a 20 percent
interest and OAO Lukoil, Russia’s biggest non-state oil
producer, holds 15 percent.  
 “You can think of it as the government paying a billion
back for taxes and getting the stake essentially for free,”
Jelenkovic said. The government may also forego a stake and be
satisfied with changing the tax regime, she said.  
 The government is in discussions with Karachaganak about
having the venture pay taxes under current legislation, rather
than its PSA, which sets fixed rates, Novosti-Kazakhstan said
April 21, citing Oil and Gas Minister Sauat Mynbayev.  
 Karachaganak has paid the government more than 8 billion
tenge in “damages” for the period of 1999 to 2005, while two
employees were under investigation for tax evasion, the Kazakh
economic crimes and corruption agency said on April 12. The two
women were convicted earlier this month, given suspended
sentences of three years each and fined.  
 Expel Foreigners  
 Kazakhstan has also threatened to expel foreigners working
at the venture. Prosecutors have taken seven people to court for
receiving work permits and visas through the venture rather than
their employers who are Karachaganak shareholders, and has
“questions on about 270” more, Alexander Ogay, an official at
the Prosecutors General’s Office in Astana, said.  
 The setbacks faced by Karachaganak, and Kashagan before
that, echo Russia’s moves to claw back control over resources
being developed by international producers under agreements
signed in the 1990s.  
 “The situation with Karachaganak is very similar to the
Russian government’s dispute over Sakhalin-2,” Tatyana
Kalachova, an analyst at Renaissance Capital’s Kazakh unit, said
by e-mail.  
 State-run OAO Gazprom gained control of the Sakhalin-2 oil
and gas project from Royal Dutch Shell Plc under a December 2006
agreement, following months of threats from environmental
regulators to halt the development.  
 While Kazakhstan may be using a “bully and buy-out”
tactic, it isn’t seeking control, Jelenkovic said.  
 “It’s more economic than ideologically-driven,” she said.
“It’s not an issue of national pride as in Russia. Kazakhstan
is very dependent on the technology of the international oil
companies.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photo from Eni SpA shows their operation in the Karachaganak gas condensate field in northwest of Kazakhstan. Source: Eni SpA via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
