-- Blazing Oil Rig Spilled 200 Barrels, Well Stops Leaking
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-04-23T15:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/blazing-oil-rig-spilled-200-barrels-well-stops-leaking.html

          
          
             A Transocean Ltd. drilling rig that
caught fire and sank in the Gulf of Mexico has leaked about 200
barrels of petroleum and there’s no oil escaping from the well
it had tapped, the U.S. Coast Guard said.  
 An oil sheen estimated earlier today at 100 square miles
(259 square kilometers) is now 16 square miles after airplanes
sprayed it with chemical dispersant and six vessels skimmed off
181 barrels of oil mixed with water, Ashley Butler, spokeswoman
for the guard, said in a telephone interview.  
 Cameras and sonar aboard remote-operated vehicles have
detected no oil escaping from the well the Deepwater Horizon rig
was preparing to seal and abandon when the explosion occurred
about 10 p.m. local time on April 20, Butler said. Oil from the
rig, about 42 miles south of Louisiana’s coast, is nine days
from shore based on its forecast rate of drift, she said.  
 “We are definitely going to stop it before that happens,”
Butler said. Forecasters expect 40 percent of the oil to
evaporate, she said.  
 The Coast Guard has not “100 percent confirmed” the leak
from the well has stopped, she said. It is continuing its search
for 11 workers missing from the rig, which was leased to BP Plc.  
 A leak in the well had “the potential to be a major
spill,” David Rainey, London-based BP’s vice president for Gulf
of Mexico production, said yesterday at a press conference in
New Orleans.  
 BP hired a rig capable of drilling down to plug the well if
necessary, he said. Before doing that, staff intended to try to
close well valves on the sea floor with remote-operated
vehicles.  
 Rig Blowout  
 The rig burned for more than 24 hours after the explosion
that Geneva-based Transocean said may have been caused by a so-
called blowout, an unexpected surge in pressure that ejected
petroleum at the top of the well. The rig sank yesterday.  
 Of 126 workers aboard, 115 were rescued. If the missing
workers died, it would be the deadliest U.S. offshore rig
explosion since 1968, when 11 died and 20 were injured at a
platform owned by Gulf Oil Corp., according to data from the
Minerals Management Service. A 1987 helicopter crash aboard a
Forest Oil Corp. platform killed 14 people.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s NaKika offshore oil platform and a
pipeline in the Gulf of Mexico a mile away were shut in
yesterday and remain closed as a precaution against the rig
drifting into it and causing another spill, said Jill Davis, a
company spokeswoman.  
 No other gulf production has been stopped by the spill,
Butler said.  
 Transocean fell $2.30, or 2.6 percent, to $87.99 at 11:21
a.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. BP
rose 3.3 pence to 639.7 in London.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        