-- BMW, Mercedes See Extra Legroom Supporting Higher Sales Forecast for China
-- Chris Reiter
-- 2010-04-23T16:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/bmw-increases-china-sales-target-for-this-year-by-20-to-120-000-vehicles.html

          
          
             Bayerische Motoren Werke AG raised
a sales forecast for China and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz said
it’s targeting 43 percent growth, as the world’s two biggest
luxury carmakers roll out sedans developed exclusively for
Chinese buyers.  
 BMW intends to deliver 120,000 BMW, Mini, and Rolls-Royce
vehicles in China in 2010, 20 percent more than a previous
projection, Chief Executive Officer Norbert Reithofer said at
the Beijing auto show today. Mercedes-Benz plans to sell at
least 100,000 vehicles, Daimler CEO Dieter Zetsche said.  
 The two luxury carmakers introduced extended versions of
their full-sized 5-Series and E-Class sedans at the show. The
new cars, which offer more legroom, are targeted at Chinese
luxury-car buyers, who are typically chauffeured. Daimler also
premiered an upgraded version of its Maybach ultra-luxury
nameplate and showed the “Shooting Break” Mercedes concept
car, which combines elements of a wagon and coupe.  
 “I have absolutely no doubt that the market here will keep
growing at double-digit rates for years to come,” Thomas Weber,
development chief of Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler, said in
an interview at the show.  
 It’s “not impossible” that Mercedes will pass BMW in
China this year and become the number-two upscale carmaker in
the country, after Volkswagen AG’s Audi, Zetsche said.  
 Audi Forecasts  
 Audi, which forecasts 26 percent growth to 200,000 cars and
sport-utility vehicles in China this year, premiered an updated
long version of the top-of-the-line A8 in Beijing. The
introductions underscore the country’s importance for high-end
automakers as European and U.S. markets struggle to recover from
the global financial crisis.  
 The Mercedes model introductions are “an acknowledgement
of the Chinese market, which continues to emerge as a driving
force for our entire sector,” Zetsche said. Mercedes may expand
its offering in China with an extended version of the entry-
level C-Class sedan, he said.  
 BMW’s new China sales target would mean a 33 percent
increase from the 90,500 cars and SUVs sold in China last year.  
 The carmaker sees potential to produce as many as 300,000
vehicles a year in China over the long term, said Reithofer,
Capacity expansion “will always” lag sales growth, he said.  
 Still, a surge in auto factory investments may lead to
overcapacity in China in five years, with local plants producing
at 66 percent of capacity by 2015, below the 80 percent level
traditionally required to cover fixed costs, according to J.D.
Power & Associates.  
 Brilliance China  
 BMW, with partner Brilliance China Automotive Holdings
Ltd., is expanding its Shenyang factory and building a second
facility for 560 million euros ($744 million). The Munich-based
automaker, which began producing 3- and 5-Series models in China
in 2003, will more than double capacity to 100,000 vehicles by
2012 from 41,000 in late 2009.  
 The company may add production of the X1 compact SUV in
China when the second factory opens in 2012. “We are currently
exploring this possibility together with the authorities here in
China,” Reithofer said.  
 The Munich-based manufacturer also plans to build a so-
called New Energy Vehicle for China, together with Brilliance.  
 BMW’s Rolls-Royce brand reported today that first-quarter
sales in China more than tripled, helping boost global
deliveries by 60 percent.  
 Springboard  
 Daimler could use China as a springboard for growth in
other markets, Weber said in the interview. The company may
export an electric vehicle it’s developing with BYD Co. for
China to other markets following its 2013 launch, he said.  
 Daimler’s cooperation with BYD, the Shenzhen-based
automaker backed by billionaire Warren Buffett, has “huge
prospects,” with sales of the battery-powered vehicles likely
to exceed 10,000 units, development chief Weber said.  
 “If it turns out to be successful, then one has to see”
about exports, Weber said. “We’d be ill-advised to rule this
out.”  
 Audi’s parent, Volkswagen, which plans to start producing
battery-powered cars in China as soon as 2013, sees the country
as the cornerstone of its ambitions to be the global electric-
car leader by 2018.  
 “China is the most important market worldwide for
Volkswagen, and the success of e-mobility is decisive,” Chief
Executive Officer Martin Winterkorn said today in a statement.  
 Volkswagen presented the E-Lavida, the first electric
vehicle developed in China, at the show. A battery-powered
version of the Golf and the Lavida will be tested in China as
preparation for a broader market launch. The E-Up! city car is
due to go on sale in China in 2013, Volkswagen said today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Beijing via   acremer@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Norbert Reithofer, chief executive officer of Bayerischen Motoren Werke (BMW) AG, speaks at an event prior to the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
