-- BP's Gulf of Mexico Production Plans Unlikely to Be Set Back by Rig Blast
-- Stanley Reed
-- 2010-04-23T14:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/bp-s-gulf-of-mexico-production-plans-unlikely-to-be-set-back-by-rig-blast.html

          
          
             BP Plc, the biggest oil producer in
the Gulf of Mexico, is unlikely to see output suffer after the
Deepwater Horizon rig it leased exploded and sank, because the
deposit it was drilling was relatively small.  
 The reservoir probably contains less than 100 million
barrels and was of commercial interest mainly because of its
proximity to existing pipelines, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified because
the information wasn’t public. BP’s output in the area is
450,000 barrels a day.  
 “It’s not Thunder Horse, it’s not going to set them back
three years,” said Iain Armstrong, an analyst at Brewin Dolphin
in London. Thunder Horse, BP’s flagship deepwater Gulf project,
was plagued by delays before starting production in 2008.  
 BP Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward has spent his first
three years in charge restoring the company’s reputation for
safety following a deadly blast at the Texas City refinery in
2005. BP and rig owner Transocean Ltd. are still working to
contain an oil spill, and 11 workers remain missing.  
 BP planned to tie the well drilled by Deepwater Horizon to
the company’s Pompano platform, the person said.  
 Even though there is no indication that BP was at fault in
the accident, the explosion and subsequent oil spill could be
damaging to BP’s reputation. Political fallout could also set
back the cause of deepwater drilling, where BP is an industry
leader.  
 ‘Probably Nobody’s Fault’  
 “It’s probably nobody’s fault, but in the perception of
the media, BP is going to be under pressure,” said Christine
Tiscareno, an analyst at Standard & Poor’s in London. “Even
though operationally and ethically the company has turned
around, this may pull it back.”  
 The Coast Guard said the oil slick from the platform is 10
miles wide and 10 miles long. Remote-operated vehicles found no
new leakages from the well yesterday.  
 “We are determined to do everything in our power to
contain this oil spill and resolve the situation as rapidly,
safely and effectively as possible,” BP’s Hayward said in a
statement today. “We have assembled and are now deploying
world-class facilities, resources and expertise, and can call on
more if needed.”  
 If the 11 workers still missing were killed, it would be
the deadliest U.S. offshore rig explosion since 1968, when 11
died and 20 were injured at a platform owned by Gulf Oil Corp.,
according to data from the Minerals Management Service.  
 Texas City  
 The March 2005 explosion of BP’s Texas City refinery, which
killed 15 and injured hundreds, occurred when gasoline spilled
into an antiquated vent system and ignited in a vapor-cloud
explosion. The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health
Administration in October 2005 found more than 300 safety
violations and fined London-based BP, Europe’s biggest oil
company, $21 million following an investigation.  
 BP’s safety record had been improving since the Texas City
blast. The recordable injury frequency, a gauge of accidents for
each 200,000 hours worked, fell to 0.34 last year from 0.43 in
2008. The figure was 0.53 in 2005, according to BP.  
 BP shares were little changed today after a 1.8 percent
drop yesterday. They traded up 0.3 percent at 638 pence as of
2:17 p.m. in London.  
 Growing oil production from the Gulf of Mexico has
contributed to BP’s turnaround under Hayward, who became CEO in
2007. BP decided to continue investing in the Gulf in the 1990s
when drilling failures led the region to be dubbed the “Dead
Sea.” The decision paid off.  
 About 450,000 barrels per day, or about 12 percent of BP’s
production, comes from the Gulf including deepwater fields such
as Thunder Horse and Atlantis.  
 Seismic Supercomputers  
 Using supercomputers to analyze seismic images from under
the region’s characteristic salt deposits, BP continues to make
new giant discoveries including last year’s Tiber find, which
may have 3 billion barrels of oil.  
 Tiber was discovered by the Deepwater Horizon, the rig
destroyed in the accident. The company plans to continue to
focus on the Gulf of Mexico. At a strategy presentation March 2,
Andy Inglis, BP’s head of exploration and production, listed six
Gulf of Mexico projects for which final go-aheads are expected
in 2010.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Stanley Reed in London at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        