-- Brazil's Credit Growth Is `Not Sustainable,' HSBC Latin America Head Says
-- Andres R. Martinez
-- 2010-04-23T19:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/brazilian-credit-growth-is-not-sustainable-hsbc-latin-america-head-says.html

          
          
             Brazilian credit is growing at an
unsustainable rate and will slow when the central bank begins to
raise rates at next week’s meeting, said Emilson Alonso, chief
of Latin America for HSBC Holdings Plc.  
 HSBC expects the central bank to raise the benchmark
lending rate by 3.5 percentage points this year to 12.25
percent, Alonso said. Brazil’s credit as a percentage of the
economy rose to 41 percent last year from 23 percent in 2004, he
said.  
 “Brazil is booming and it’s not sustainable,” Alonso said
in an interview in Acapulco during a bankers convention today.
“Inflation is showing signs of some increase.”  
 Brazil’s banking assets had been growing at 20 percent to
25 percent a year and may decelerate to 10 percent to 12 percent
growth, Alonso said. HSBC has about 5 percent of Brazil’s
banking market share and doesn’t see that changing.  
 “I think the government is going to start to curb a little
bit this fever that is in Brazil,” he said.  
 Mexico is the market now with the best growth potential,
Alonso said. Credit as a percentage of the economy may double
over the next five years to 40 percent as the economy returns to
growth.  
 “We have capital and liquidity. We are willing to lend,”
Alonso said of the Mexican banking industry. “You get the real
economy growing and then the banks will follow.”  
 Gaining Market Share  
 HSBC expects to gain market share in Mexico on its credit
assets, perhaps rising to 15 percent from 10 percent now, he
said. The Mexican economy last year fell 6.5 percent and may
increase 3.8 percent, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  
 The bank plans to increase correspondent banks in Mexico,
which are small businesses that agree to offer banking services,
to about 5,000 or 6,000 over the next two years from about 1,500
to tap into credit demand.  
 HSBC will likely focus more on growing its existing banking
business in Latin America because prices for acquisitions are
too high, Alonso said. Banks in Latin America can cost in the
range of 2.3 to 2.6 times market capitalization without counting
a premium for control, which makes it difficult to reach HSBC’s
goal of 15 percent to 19 percent return on capital, he said.  
 “We’ve been tracking this everywhere, but so far the price
of assets are high,” Alonso said. “Unless we have a good fit
at the right price and a good opportunity, I think we’ll
continue pushing organic growth.”  
 Panama is another market where HSBC will concentrate
growth. The country’s financial system is a hub from which to
service economies in Central America, he said.  
 “It’s a tremendous center for logistics. They are trying
to attract financial companies there,” he said. “There’s an
opportunity to grab this growth there.”  
 HSBC may seek a banking license for Guatemala, he said. The
bank serves the Central American country with a representative
office.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Black in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        