-- Brazil's Bovespa Stock Index Falls on Concern Interest Rates to Increase
-- Alexander Ragir
-- 2010-04-23T16:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/brazil-bovespa-stock-futures-advance-on-greece-bailout-german-confidence.html

          
          
             Brazil’s Bovespa stock index
dropped the most in a week as quickening inflation raised
speculation the central bank will increase interest rates next
week.  
 Homebuilder PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes
dropped the most on the Bovespa stock index as traders boosted
bets for higher borrowing costs. Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo
SA declined 1.6 percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its
rating on the stock to “underweight”, citing “unattractive”
valuations.  
 “There’s various sources of market stress,” said
Guilherme Reboucas, who helps oversee the equivalent of $10.5
billion in stocks at Sao Paulo-based Itau Unibanco Holding SA.
“Homebuilders are getting hurt by the prospects of higher
rates.”  
 The Bovespa stock index fell 0.4 percent to 69,119.09 at
12:06 p.m. New York time after dropping 0.8 percent earlier
today. At least two stocks fell on the index for every one that
rose. The real was little changed at 1.7636 per dollar.  
 Consumer prices climbed 0.76 percent in the month through
April 22, according to a report released today by the Getulio
Vargas Foundation in Rio de Janeiro. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey with 10 economists was for an increase of 0.7
percent.  
 The yield on the contract due January 2011 jumped two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 10.71 percent. The yield on
the contract gained 0.31 percentage point this month as
inflation expectations accelerated.  
 Higher Rates  
 The central bank will lift its benchmark Selic rate for the
first time in 19 months on April 28 from a record low of 8.75
percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  
 PDG fell 1.8 percent to 15.60 reais. Redecard SA, Brazil’s
biggest credit-card processor by market value, fell 1.1 percent
to 28.91 reais.  
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA fell as much as 0.4 percent after
Chief Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli told O Estado de
S. Paulo in an interview that the company may have to find
another way to raise capital if a plan isn’t approved by
Brazil’s congress by June.  
 The capitalization plan is likely to be voted on and sent
to the lower house at the end of May and the process should be
completed by June, the newspaper said, citing Gabrielli. The CEO
said he won’t look at alternatives until congress makes a
decision, Estado said.  
 Petrobras Sale  
 Petrobras, as the company is known, is seeking to sell
shares to help finance as much as $220 billion of investment
through 2014. As part of the plan, Rio de Janeiro-based
Petrobras will swap some shares for the rights to 5 billion
barrels of government-owned reserves.  
 Investors are concerned there will be enough demand for
Brazilian shares after such a large offering, Reboucas said.  
 Telesp, as the telephone company is known, fell 1.6 percent
to 34.33 reais. JPMorgan cut the stock from “neutral,” saying
that earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and
amortization will likely decline the next three years as the
company loses revenue.  
 The Bovespa rose for a second session yesterday, erasing a
decline of as much as 1.8 percent, as stocks in the U.S., the
nation’s second-biggest trade partner, recovered from earlier
losses.  
 Bovespa’s Value  
 The Bovespa index trades for 13.3 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 13 times for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index of 22 developing nations’ stocks and 16.2 times
for Mexico’s Bolsa index, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 17.3 times the reported profits
of its companies after fetching 25.5 times in November, the most
in almost six years, weekly data show.  
 The Bovespa has gained 1 percent in 2010, boosted by higher
commodity prices and expectations gross domestic product will
grow more than 5 percent this year, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Signs that the
global recovery is strengthening helped the measure erase a drop
of 11 percent from a 19-month high in January.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        