-- British Soccer Leagues Claim Victory Over Yahoo on Schedule Copyright
-- James Lumley
-- 2010-04-23T13:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/british-soccer-leagues-claim-victory-over-yahoo-on-schedule-copyright.html

          
          
             U.K. soccer leagues claimed victory
against Yahoo! Inc.’s U.K. unit in a court ruling that said
their match schedules can be protected by copyright law.  
 Justice Christopher Floyd at the High Court in London ruled
today that the schedules of the English and Scottish leagues are
subject to “database copyright” law.  
 Media companies and betting firms must now pay to use the
information, said DLA Piper LLP, the law firm representing the
leagues and Football DataCo Ltd, the group that markets and
licenses the data. They had brought the case against internet
company Yahoo! U.K. and a number of betting firms.  
 “Today’s ruling has confirmed that there are indeed
enforceable IP rights in these lists,” Simon Levine, the lawyer
for the leagues and DataCo said in an e-mailed statement. “It
also clarifies any existing confusion as to whether the use and
publication of the fixture lists have a commercial value.”  
 The lists encompass the schedules of teams from Manchester
United, rated the most valuable club in the world by Forbes
magazine, and Scotland’s Glasgow Rangers to lower-tier fixtures
of semi-professional outfits. As well as claiming copyright for
the lists as a database, the claimants sought a ruling that the
information was covered by general copyright, according to the
judgment.  
 “It seems to me that the only way the fixtures lists could
conceivably attract copyright is by virtue of the collection and
arrangement of the data contained in them, that is to say as a
database,” Floyd said in his ruling.  
 Olswang LLP, the law firm for the defendants, didn’t
immediately respond to a message seeking comment.  
 “It is reassuring to note that U.K. law has recognized the
intellectual efforts of the professional football
administrators, police, supporters associations and others who
expend a great deal of time and effort in compiling and checking
the fixtures,” David Folker, DataCo’s general manager said in
an e-mailed statement.  
 The case is TLC 705/09 Football Data Co Ltd v Stan James
(Abingdon) Ltd & ors.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
James Lumley in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        