-- British Economy Grows Half as Much as Forecast
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-04-23T14:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/british-economy-grows-half-as-much-as-forecast-as-election-date-approaches.html

          
          
             The U.K. economy grew half as much
as forecast in the first quarter, underscoring the fragility of
the recovery as Prime Minister Gordon Brown struggles to
convince voters that his party deserves a fourth term.  
 Gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent from the final
three months of 2009, when a 0.4 percent expansion ended the
recession, the Office for National Statistics said today in
London. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 32
economists was for a 0.4 percent increase.  
 Brown told reporters today that the economy still needs
stimulus to avoid a “double-dip recession” and that
Conservative leader David Cameron’s plans to cut spending this
year are a “risk” to growth. The winner of the May 6 election
will need to tackle a budget shortfall that swelled to the worst
since World War II in the fiscal year through March.  
 “This is disappointing,” Stewart Robertson, an economist
at Aviva Investors in London, which manages about $383 billion
in assets, said in a telephone interview. “On the face of it,
it’s a weak economy that got weaker in the first quarter. This
number will without doubt be revised up but it won’t happen in
time to help Brown.”  
 The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.5318 as of 3:11 p.m. in
London. It was at $1.5397 shortly before the data were
published. The benchmark two-year gilt fell for a fifth day,
pushing the yield up 6 basis points to 1.259 percent.  
 ‘Three Cuts’  
 From a year earlier, the economy contracted 0.3 percent in
the quarter. Economists forecast a 0.1 percent decline, based on
the median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Today’s report is the first of three estimates for the
quarter. It uses data for the first two months of the period
from about 40 percent of companies assessed, or about 40,000
businesses, and three-month figures for a further 20,000 firms.  
 The U.K. is the first of the Group of Seven nations to
report GDP for the quarter. The economy faced headwinds from
coldest winter since 1979 that snarled traffic, slowed
construction and kept shoppers home, and a sales-tax increase.  
 The cold snap restrained manufacturing and retail sales,
the statistics office said. Industrial production, which
accounts for 17 percent of the economy, rose 0.7 percent on the
quarter, while services, which make up 76 percent of GDP,
increased 0.2 percent. Construction slumped 0.7 percent.  
 SIG Plc, a U.K. maker of insulation, said last month that
first-half pretax profit will be “well below” year-earlier
levels as the weather resulted in a “slow start” to 2010.  
 ‘Limping Along’  
 “To the extent the economy is in recovery, it’s really
limping along,” Danny Gabay, director of Fathom Financial
Consulting in London and a former Bank of England official, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview.  
 Brown, Cameron and Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg
clashed in their second televised debate last night, where they
grappled with questions on foreign affairs and plans to support
the economy as it recovers from the worst recession on record.  
 The GDP report is a “blow for Gordon Brown’s re-election
campaign,” Azad Zangana, an economist at Schroders Investment
Management Ltd. in London, said in an e-mailed note. It
“reminds us of the impact the poor U.S. GDP number had on” the
1992 presidential campaign, when Bill Clinton defeated incumbent
George Bush in a campaign known for the phrase “It’s the
economy, stupid.”  
 Brown said today at a press conference in London that the
economy “will be decisive” in the election.  
 ‘Not Working’  
 Some opinion polls suggest the May 6 election may result in
a hung parliament, where voters fail to deliver a parliamentary
majority.  
 A YouGov Plc daily poll before last night’s debate put the
Conservatives at 34 percent and Labour at 29 percent, with the
Liberal Democrats at 28 percent. That would leave Labour with
278 seats to 251 for the Conservatives and 88 for the Liberal
Democrats, according to the standard calculations used by
academics and pollsters.  
 Cameron has said the deficit will be his top priority if
elected. The shortfall was 152.8 billion pounds ($234 billion)
in the fiscal year through March, the highest in the Group of
Seven nations. Based on a European Union measure, Britain’s
deficit amounted to 11.5 percent of GDP in 2009, almost three
times the bloc’s upper limit.  
 “Whoever is in power faces a major economic problem, which
is the challenge of getting the government overdraft, budget
deficit and debt under control,” Neil Mackinnon, an economist
at VTB Capital Plc and a former U.K. Treasury economist, told
Bloomberg Television today.  
 ‘Fragile’  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling said that the
recovery is “fragile” and that his forecast for growth of
between 1 percent and 1.5 percent this year is “entirely
dependent” on maintaining stimulus.  
 “To cut away support just now as the Conservatives are
saying would be to take a risk with the economy -- a risk I’m
not prepared to take,” he said on BBC radio.  
 Vince Cable, who speaks for the Liberal Democrats on
financial matters, said an increase in unemployment to a 16-year
high in the three months through February “exposes the folly of
Tory plans to pull the rug from under the recovery.”  
 The International Monetary Fund this week cut its 2011 U.K.
GDP forecast to 2.5 percent from 2.7 percent and held its
prediction for expansion this year at 1.3 percent as domestic
demand “remains subdued.”  
 The economy may benefit from the pound’s decline, which is
boosting export competitiveness. The Confederation of British
Industry, the nation’s biggest business lobby, said yesterday a
measure of export optimism rose to a 15-year high. Sterling has
fallen about 25 percent against a trade-weighted basket of
currencies since the start of 2007.  
 “It’s a disappointing number but it’s still got a plus
sign in front of it,” Bill Dinning, head of strategy at Aegon
Asset Management in Edinburgh, said in a telephone interview
after today’s report. “The general tone is that the economy is
a little stronger than it was.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Gas storage tanks sit behind a cemetery in London, on Jan. 11, 2010. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Danny Gabay, managing director of Fathom Financial Consulting, talks about first-quarter U.K. economic growth and its effect on the outcome of the country's general election next month.
     The economy grew 0.2 percent in the first quarter from the final months of 2009, half as much as economists forecast, according to data released today by the Office for National Statistics. He speaks with Bloomberg's Andrea Catherwood. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
