-- British Bankers Shunned by Mortgage Lenders Turn to Private Banks Instead
-- Simon Packard
-- 2010-04-23T08:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/british-bankers-shunned-by-mortgage-lenders-turn-to-private-banks-instead.html

          
          
             Employees in London’s financial
services industry are turning to private banks for luxury home
loans as the biggest mortgage lenders are deterred by limits on
cash bonuses.  
 Lending by private banks climbed by as much as 40 percent
in the past year, according to Private Finance, a London-based
broker that arranges mortgages worth an average 700,000 pounds
($1 million). Bonus-earners accounted for about half the rise,
the broker said.  
 Dealmakers, once courted by lenders, are finding it harder
to get mortgages from Main Street lenders as employers pay
bonuses in stock over years and introduce clauses allowing them
to claw back payments in the event of future losses. That’s made
it harder for bonus-earners, who fueled the boom in London’s
property market, to get a mortgage at a time when lending has
dropped to almost half the average of the past 15 years.  
 “Mainstream lenders are shying away from anything that
needs bespoke underwriting,” Katie Tucker, Private Finance’s
chief operating officer, said in an interview. “The business
has moved to the private banks because they can be flexible.”  
 Cash bonuses paid to the 300,000 Londoners employed in
finance and related services fell 60 percent to 4 billion pounds
in 2009, according to the Centre for Economic & Business
Research. This year’s payout, normally made in the first quarter
for the previous year’s performance, probably rose to about 6
billion pounds, the London-based research firm said.  
 London Property  
 Most of that money will go to the government after taxes
rose, according to the CEBR. The threat of more regulation and
government measures makes it harder to estimate future bonuses,
increasing demand for mortgages, Tucker said.  
 “A lot of people want a facility, so if they get unstuck
later in the year, they can draw it down,” she said, adding
that an interview has become standard practice to obtain a loan
from a private bank.  
 Record bank profits and bonuses powered demand for
property, lifting luxury home values in central London by 29
percent in 2006 and in 2007. Buyers in finance or business
services account for half the purchases of luxury homes in
central London and property is one of the favored investments
for bonuses, said Lucian Cook, a research director at real
estate broker Savills Plc.  
 The capital’s property brokers report no surge in bonus-
related purchases this year even as recruiters report a recovery
in finance-related job vacancies and investment banks distribute
larger payouts as their profits swell.  
 ‘Oiling the Wheels’  
 “Finance is the big, big hurdle that’s holding back a lot
of buyers,” said Lindsay Cuthill, head of Savills’s sales
offices in southwest London, where bonus earners account for as
much as 80 percent of buyers of prime residences.  
 As the number of transactions has slumped on a scarcity of
mortgage finance and properties for sale, “the private banks
are very important in oiling the wheels of the market at the
moment,” said Ed Mead, a director at the Chelsea office of real
estate agent Douglas & Gordon Ltd.  
 Unlike mainstream lenders, which have standardized mortgage
products, private banks are prepared to look beyond irregular
monthly incomes and include bonuses, stock options, investments,
art or collectibles of value when they decide to lend.  
 “The key is servicing,” said Wayne Preston, head of the
specialist banking arm at Investec Private Bank in London. “It
doesn’t have to be month on month. We have to be creative, as we
aren’t ticking boxes and there’s no credit scoring. We look at
what customers do and make an informed call.”  
 Price Competition  
 Simon Gammon, managing partner of Knight Frank Finance LLP,
said the top 10 lenders to clients seeking loans of 1 million
pounds or more were private banks at the end of last year,
whereas in 2006 and 2007 they couldn’t compete on price.  
 Barclays’s wealth management unit will today charge 2.49
percent for loans of more than 1 million pounds and require only
a 15 percent down payment, Gammon said. That is 2 percentage
points less than what is available from mainstream lenders, he
said.  
 After the credit crisis, the U.K.’s biggest mortgage-
lenders grew reluctant to grant large loans to customers without
regular monthly salaries to match, Gammon said. Most haven’t
passed on record-low interest rates, opting to keep lending
margins high to repair their balance sheets, according to
personal finance Web site Moneyfacts.com.  
 That’s allowing private banks to attract customers with a
mortgage and then require them to use their wealth management
services, Gammon said.  
 “There’s a real appetite for private banks to do what they
have never done in previous years and build a relationship
through credit,” he said. “In the past, you would make an
investment and that’s how it would start.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Swiss Re Insurance building, also known as "the Gherkin", center, and the headquarters of Aviva Plc, St. Helen's house, right, stand in the financial district of London, on April 12, 2010. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
