-- Brown Says `Fragile' Growth Shows Risks of Cuts; Cameron Fears Paralysis
-- Thomas Penny
-- 2010-04-23T15:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/brown-says-fragile-economic-growth-shows-risks-osborne-sees-paralysis.html

          
          
             Prime Minister Gordon Brown said
“fragile” U.K. growth figures underscored the risk of cutting
spending before the recovery takes hold, as the opposition
Conservatives warned that the greater danger to the economy was
a hung Parliament.  
 “We are not out of the woods,” Brown said in a speech in
Coventry, central England today as he campaigned for his Labour
Party before the May 6 election. “What I am seeking to do is
avoid a Tory double-dip recession and achieve a triple boost
through growth, rising employment and keeping interest rates
low.”  
 Gross-domestic-product growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the
first quarter from the final three months of 2009, when a 0.4
percent expansion ended the recession, the Office for National
Statistics said today in London. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 32 economists was for a 0.4 percent
increase.  
 Conservative leader David Cameron said Britain is “hardly
racing out of recession” and the country faces “indecision and
paralysis” over the record budget deficit if the election
produces an indecisive result.  
 “International investors would wonder, ‘Is Britain really
up to dealing with its debts?,’” Cameron said in a speech in
London. “Any business will flounder without leadership and
direction, the same is absolutely true for our economy.”  
 Liberal Democrat Surge  
 Brown’s argument may have more resonance with voters, with
opinion polls currently indicating Britain is on course for a
Parliament in which no party has a majority, analysts said. The
third party, the Liberal Democrats, has surged in the polls over
the past week, and Labour may yet emerge with most seats in the
election, even with a smaller share of the vote than the other
two main parties  
 “I don’t think the economic hole the country is in is
reflected in any sense by the electorate that they want to exact
revenge” on Brown, Andrew Hawkins, chairman of pollsters ComRes
Ltd, said in a telephone interview. “The low numbers help feed
his slogan of don’t let the Tories risk the recovery.”  
 Brown argued at a news conference in London this morning
that he has the “experience and judgment” to oversee a return
to growth.  
 The U.K.’s political parties have put the economy at the
center of strategies for winning power at the general election
on May 6. Brown said only Labour can be trusted to steer the
nation to recovery by not withdrawing support too soon, while
the Conservatives promise to act more quickly to reduce spending
and pay off the deficit.  
 ‘Plus Sign’  
 “Obviously it’s a disappointing number but it’s still got
a plus sign in front of it,” Bill Dinning, head of strategy at
Aegon Asset Management in Edinburgh, said of the GDP report.
“The general tone is that the economy is a little stronger than
it was.”  
 “I’ve always said the economy will be decisive. I believe
there is one leader in this campaign with the experience, the
judgment, the record and the team to be trusted with the
recovery at this uncertain and fragile time,” Brown said at his
news conference. “That is why I will fight as though my life
depended upon it to win the argument and to win the support
needed to get a majority Labour government.”  
 Today’s report is the first of three estimates for the
quarter. It uses data for the first two months of the period
from about 40 percent of companies assessed, or about 40,000
businesses, and three-month figures for a further 20,000 firms.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Bristol, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        