-- BSkyB Bids to Stall Resale Price Cuts for Premier League Soccer Programs
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-04-23T14:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/bskyb-bids-to-stall-resale-price-cuts-for-premier-league-soccer-programs.html

          
          
             British Sky Broadcasting Plc, the
U.K.’s biggest pay-television provider, asked a court to suspend
a regulator’s demand for it to sell coverage of FA Premier
League soccer to competitors at lower prices.  
 BSkyB told the Competition Appeal Tribunal in London today
that the decision should be halted until a full appeal can be
heard. Broadcasting regulator Ofcom in March ordered BSkyB to
charge set wholesale prices for its sports shows.  
 “The effect is to strike at the heart of Sky’s ability to
dispose of its assets, its intellectual property, in ways that
it sees fit,” BSkyB’s lawyer James Flynn said. “Ofcom seems to
have no recognition of the seriousness of the step.”  
 BSkyB, controlled by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp., agreed to
pay 1.62 billion pounds ($2.48 billion) last year to show the
majority of live Premier League soccer matches between 2010 and
2013. Ofcom wants the company to lower the prices it charges
other broadcasters such as Virgin Media Inc. and BT Group Plc to
carry its programs. The Premier League, which includes
Manchester United, is the richest domestic soccer competition.  
 BSkyB’s request should be denied because the company
rejected an expedited process and the appeal will take at least
15 months to be resolved, Ofcom’s lawyer, Dinah Rose, said at
the hearing.  
 “The development of competition in this market is being
distorted by Sky,” Rose said. “The elephant in the room is the
public interest.”  
 The regulator argues that BSkyB is using its “market
power” in the wholesale supply of channels to limit
distribution to rivals and restrict consumer choice. Ofcom
ordered BSkyB to publish terms and conditions for selling
programming by May 14.  
 Cable-TV provider Virgin Media and BT Group, the
biggest U.K. phone company, filed a complaint in January 2007,
saying BSkyB’s control of film and TV rights creates a “vicious
circle” that hurts competition and keeps prices high.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        