-- Buffett Has `Great Confidence' in Goldman Sachs
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-04-23T05:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/buffett-has-great-confidence-in-goldman-sachs-berkshire-s-murphy-says.html

          
          
             Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s Warren
Buffett, who injected $5 billion into Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in 2008, remains comfortable with his investment after
regulators sued the bank for fraud, said Berkshire Director
Thomas Murphy.  
 “He’s not concerned with the investment at all,” Murphy,
84, said in a Bloomberg Television interview, citing a telephone
conversation with Buffett, Berkshire’s chief executive officer.
“He has to see what’s going to happen on it, but I think he has
great confidence in Goldman,” Murphy said. The two men spoke
after the Securities and Exchange Commission announced its
lawsuit on April 16, Murphy said.  
 Buffett, a longstanding Wall Street critic, has supported a
firm that’s become a lightning rod for politicians and people
who feel cheated by the recession. Public regard for Goldman
Sachs, the most profitable firm in Wall Street history, has
plummeted in the year and a half since Buffett, 79, provided the
company with capital in the depths of the financial crisis.  
 “I think he’s awfully secure” in Berkshire’s Goldman
Sachs holdings, said Glenn Tongue, a partner at T2 Partners LLC,
which invests in Buffett’s firm. “He assessed the culture of
Goldman Sachs when he made the investment. He had known the
company for decades.”  
 The SEC accused Goldman Sachs and an employee of misleading
clients on the sale of mortgage-related investments. The case
focuses on a collateralized debt obligation that yielded a $1
billion payout for hedge fund Paulson & Co. when the CDO lost
value. Investor IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG lost money.  
 ‘Very Sophisticated’  
 A Goldman Sachs director tipped off Galleon Group founder
Raj Rajaratnam about Buffett’s investment before it became
public knowledge, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing a
person it didn’t identify. Connie Ling, a spokeswoman for
Goldman Sachs in Hong Kong, declined to comment.  
 Goldman Sachs, led by Chief Executive Officer Lloyd
Blankfein, has called the claims in the lawsuit unfounded.
Investors who took the opposite position to Paulson were aware
of the risk, Goldman Sachs has said.  
 “The people on the other side, I am told, and I am not a
pro on this at all, are very sophisticated buyers or sellers,”
Murphy said. “They knew exactly what they were doing.”
Murphy’s son, also named Thomas, is a former partner at Goldman
Sachs.  
 “I also have great respect for Goldman,” Murphy said.  
 Buffett may be called on to address criticism of Goldman
Sachs on May 1 when tens of thousands of investors gather in
Omaha, Nebraska, for Berkshire’s annual meeting. At last year’s
meeting, he countered public anger over the taxpayer-funded bank
bailouts by touting Wells Fargo & Co., one of Berkshire’s top
holdings and the recipient of $25 billion in aid.  
 Goldman Sachs Integrity  
 Buffett’s prestige as the world’s preeminent stock picker
and his reputation for ethics boosted Berkshire to first place
this month in Harris Interactive’s annual survey of corporate
reputations. The financial crisis dragged the nation’s biggest
banks toward the bottom of the list with Goldman Sachs coming in
56th out of 60. Berkshire gets 10 percent annual interest on the
Goldman Sachs preferred shares that Buffett bought in 2008.  
 Buffett’s investment was partly a bet on the “integrity”
of Goldman Sachs, Berkshire director Ronald Olson said last week
before the lawsuit.  
 “When Warren and Berkshire stepped up to make this
investment, it was a very strong statement of its belief, his
belief, in not just the strength of Goldman but its integrity,”
Olson said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  
 Murphy, a Berkshire director since 2003, is a former
chairman and CEO of Capital Cities/ABC, one of Buffett’s most
successful investments in the 1990s.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Warren Buffett, chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway, pauses during a television interview at Smith & Wollensky in New York, on Feb. 22, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Director Thomas Murphy talks with Bloomberg's Betty Liu about Berkshire Chief Executive Officer Warren Buffett's investment in Goldman Sachs Group Inc. after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued the bank for fraud.
     Buffett injected $5 billion into Goldman Sachs in 2008, and remains comfortable with his investment, Murphy said, citing a telephone conversation with Buffett. The SEC has accused Goldman Sachs and an employee of misleading clients on the sale of mortgage-related investments. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Warren Buffett, CEO of Berkshire Hathaway  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Warren Buffett, chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway, pauses during a television interview in New York, on Feb. 22, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Warren Buffett, chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway, pauses during a television interview in New York, on Feb. 22, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
