-- Cameron's Failure to Top Clegg in Debate Polls Signals Minority Government
-- Kitty Donaldson
-- 2010-04-23T10:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/cameron-s-failure-to-top-clegg-in-debate-polls-signals-minority-government.html

          
          
             Conservative David Cameron failed
to derail Nick Clegg in the U.K. campaign’s second debate, four
instant polls showed, pointing to a hung parliament with Prime
Minister Gordon Brown’s Labour Party as the largest bloc.  
 In a 90-minute televised debate, Brown, 59, compared his
43-year-old opponents to children “squabbling at bathtime.”
Cameron, who led polls until Clegg’s surge after last week’s
debate, said a government without a majority would prevent
“decisive action” to narrow a record budget deficit. Clegg
dismissed such warnings as “ludicrous scare stories.”  
 Of four surveys released immediately after the event, two
showed Clegg won and a pair favored Cameron. That suggests the
debate will produce little change in polls on the overall race
in coming days. Most since last week show Labour winning a
plurality of seats in the May 6 election.  
 “It would have been a game-changer if Clegg had crashed
and burned,” said Justin Fisher, professor of politics at
Brunel University in London. “Clegg held up better than I
thought he would. He won’t fall back to his pre-debate levels”
-- about 10 points below where he is now.  
 A YouGov Plc daily poll before last night’s debate put the
Conservatives at 34 percent and Labour at 29 percent, with the
Liberal Democrats at 28 percent. That would leave Labour with
278 seats to 251 for the Conservatives and 88 for the Liberal
Democrats, according to the standard calculations used by
academics and pollsters. YouGov questioned 1,576 people April 21
and yesterday. No margin of error was given.  
 Pound Weakens  
 Such a result may roil markets because a divided government
would be too weak to fix Britain’s finances, some economists
say. The pound slumped 1 percent in the two days after the
debate last week. The currency was little changed today,
slipping 0.1 percent to $1.5366 at 10:45 a.m. in London. It has
lost 4.9 percent against the dollar this year.  
 The U.K. economy grew half as much as economists forecast
in the first quarter, the Office of National Statistics reported
today. Gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent from the final
three months of 2009, when a 0.4 percent expansion ended the
recession, the agency said.  
 Brown said the slower growth rate shows the risk to the 
economy of the Conservatives’ proposed spending cuts this year. 
The opposition’s Treasury spokesman, George Osborne, said 
Brown’s policies aren’t working and have resulted in a “jobless
recovery.”  
 ‘Like Me or Not’  
 In last night’s debate, Brown, whose party has controlled
the government since 1997, addressed his own unpopularity.  
 “Like me or not, I can deliver,” he said. He later told
his opponents: “David, you’re a risk to the economy, Nick is a
risk to our security.”  
 Brown told Clegg to “get real” and stop opposing nuclear
weapons. He criticized Cameron over his European policy and
economic policies.  
 “Iran, you’re saying, might be able to have a nuclear
weapon and you wouldn’t take action against them, but you’re
also saying give up our Trident submarines,” Brown told Clegg
on the stage of an arts center in Bristol. “Get real about the
danger we face if we have North Korea, Iran and other countries
with nuclear weapons and we give up our own.”  
 Clegg opposes updating Britain’s submarine-based Trident
missile system. Brown said Cameron’s “anti-Europeanism becomes
more and more obvious as this debate goes on.”  
 ‘In Europe’  
 Cameron said he wanted to be “in Europe but not run by
Europe.”  
 Cameron made some direct attacks on Clegg, at one point
taking on the Liberal Democrat leader’s claim that his party had
escaped censure following disclosures that scores of lawmakers
were reimbursed with taxpayer money for personal expenses.  
 “Frankly, Nick, we all had problems with this,” the
Conservative said. “Don’t let’s anyone put themselves on a
pedestal.”  
 Clegg criticized Cameron over his decision to end the
Conservatives’ alliance in the European Parliament with the
parties of German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy.  
 The Conservatives joined with eastern European parties that
include Latvia’s For Fatherland and Freedom, which has come
under fire from academics for its links to Latvians who fought
with the Nazi SS in World War II.  
 ‘Bunch of Nutters’  
 Clegg described the Conservatives’ allies as “a bunch of
nutters, anti-Semites, people who deny climate change exists,
homophobes.”  
 All three changed their debating tactics, switching away
from last week’s emphasis on anecdotes about voters they’d met
in the campaign. Brown and Cameron both copied Clegg’s technique
from the previous debate of addressing the camera directly,
rather than the studio audience.  
 “David Cameron made a really concerted attempt to
highlight the differences between the three parties, and how
hard it would be to reach agreement in a hung Parliament,” said
Jane Green, a lecturer in politics at Manchester University.
“But I was surprised he didn’t make more of the message that a
vote for Clegg is a vote for Brown.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in Bristol at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     David Cameron, leader of the U.K. Conservative Party, center, gestures during an election rally at Varndean College, Brighton, on April 19, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Parsons via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Daniel Lester reports from a waffle party in London held to coincide with the second televised leaders' debate.
     Conservative David Cameron failed to derail Nick Clegg in the U.K. campaign’s second debate, four instant polls showed, pointing to a hung parliament with Prime Minister Gordon Brown’s Labour Party as the largest bloc. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
