-- Canada's Inflation Rate Unexpectedly Slowed in March to 1.4% on Shelter
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-04-23T20:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/canada-s-inflation-rate-unexpectedly-slowed-in-march-to-1-4-on-shelter.html

          
          
             Canada’s annual inflation rate
unexpectedly slowed in March to 1.4 percent from 1.6 percent the
previous month, as clothing and mortgage interest expenses
declined while gasoline costs rose.  
 The consumer price index excluding eight volatile items
also slowed to 1.7 percent from 2.1 percent, Statistics Canada
said today in Ottawa. Economists predicted the overall inflation
rate would stay at 1.6 percent and the core rate would be 2
percent, according to the median of 23 estimates gathered by
Bloomberg News.  
 The Bank of Canada will start raising its key policy rate
because of faster-than-expected inflation and economic growth,
Governor Mark Carney said yesterday, after dropping a
“conditional commitment” on April 20 to keep it unchanged at a
record low. Inflation will be “slightly higher” than the
bank’s 2 percent target over the next year, the central bank’s
quarterly forecast report said yesterday.  
 “It will likely hold the Bank of Canada to a very gradual
course of tightening,” said Sal Guatieri, a senior economist at
BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “It probably means the Bank of
Canada will move in June, but by 25 basis points.”  
 The Canadian dollar strengthened 0.1 percent to 99.92
Canadian cents per U.S. dollar at 4 p.m. in Toronto from
C$1.0004 yesterday.  
 Gradual Tightening  
 Statistics Canada also said today that retail sales rose
0.5 percent in February, the third straight gain, led by new
automobile purchases. Total receipts were estimated to grow 1
percent, according to the median response of 21 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 “I still don’t think the consumer is actually shopping for
the more high-esteem products,” Russell Breweries Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Brian Harris said in a telephone interview
from Vancouver. “The jury is still kind of out” on the
durability of the economic recovery, he said.  
 In the inflation report, six of the eight main categories
tracked by Statistics Canada increased in March from a year
earlier. Clothing and footwear prices fell 2.2 percent, led by
women’s apparel. Statistics Canada’s index of shelter costs
declined 0.7 percent as mortgage interest costs fell 6 percent
in March and natural gas dropped 22 percent.  
 Transportation prices increased 6 percent, led by a 17
percent increase for gasoline. Food prices increased 1.3 percent
and automobile insurance premiums increased 5.5 percent.  
 The yield on June bankers’ acceptances futures contracts
fell 2 basis points to 0.95 percent, suggesting investors are
paring bets for a central bank move that month. The yield on
September and December contracts also declined, dropping
respectively by 3 points to 1.44 percent and 4 points to 1.94
percent.  
 ‘Pressure Off’  
 The inflation report “takes some pressure off the Bank of
Canada to hike at the June 1 meeting,” said David Love, a
trader of interest-rate derivatives in Montreal at brokerage Le
Groupe Jitney Inc.  
 Overall inflation was unchanged on a monthly basis after
gaining 0.4 percent in February. Core consumer prices fell 0.2
percent on the month after February’s 0.7 percent increase,
which was the fastest since November 2008.  
 Economists predicted the monthly rate would increase 0.2
percent for total inflation and 0.1 percent for the core rate.  
 The Bank of Canada said this week that the faster-than-
expected rise in inflation for January and February was due in
part to transitory effects such as rising hotel costs during the
Vancouver Winter Olympics. Traveler accommodation costs on a
monthly basis fell 14 percent in March, bringing them back
toward where they were in January, Statistics Canada said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        