-- Canadian Dollar Falls for Third Day as Annual Inflation Unexpectedly Slows
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-04-23T16:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/canadian-dollar-falls-for-third-day-as-annual-inflation-unexpectedly-slows.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar declined for a
third day after a government report showed annual inflation
unexpectedly slowed last month, which may discourage the central
bank from raising borrowing costs as early as June.  
 “The number was softer than expected,” said Camilla
Sutton, director of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia in
Toronto. “The Canadian dollar has weakened.”  
 The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.3 percent to
C$1.0033 per U.S. dollar at 12:06 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0004
yesterday. It headed for a weekly gain of 0.9 percent. The
currency reached parity with the U.S. dollar on April 6 for the
first time since July 2008. Government bonds rose.  
 The loonie pared losses as crude oil, Canada’s biggest
export, gained after sales of new U.S. homes surged in March by
27 percent, the most since 1963, bolstering optimism American
economic growth will accelerate. Crude for June delivery
increased 1 percent to $84.50 a barrel in New York.  
 The annual inflation rate unexpectedly slowed to 1.4
percent in March from 1.6 percent in the previous month as
clothing and mortgage interest expenses fell while gasoline
costs rose, Statistics Canada data showed. A separate government
report showed retail sales in February rose less than some
economists forecast.  
 The Bank of Canada signaled on April 20 it may be the first
among the Group of Seven nations to increase borrowing costs as
economic growth accelerates and stokes inflation.  
 ‘Turning Point’  
 In its decision to leave the target overnight lending rate
at a record low 0.25 percent, policy makers dropped a phrase
about a “conditional commitment” to keep the benchmark
unchanged until July unless the inflation outlook shifted.  
 This year will mark the “turning point” for the nation’s
economic rebound from one driven by stimulus measures to a
slower expansion led by business investment and trade, the Bank
of Canada said yesterday in its monetary policy report.  
 It also said the strength of the Canadian currency could be
a “drag on growth.” The loonie has gained 22 percent against
its U.S. counterpart in the past 12 months in the fourth-best
performance among the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  
 Today’s inflation number “just goes to show that the
stronger Canadian dollar is putting downward pressure on some of
the sectors,” said Scotia’s Sutton. There is one more inflation
report before the June 1 meeting, which Sutton said traders will
be “watching closely.”  
 Policy makers’ next two rate decisions are scheduled for
June 1 and July 20.  
 Clothing, Shelter  
 Clothing and footwear prices fell 2.2 percent, led by
women’s apparel. Statistics Canada’s index of shelter costs
declined 0.7 percent as mortgage interest costs fell 6 percent
in March and natural gas dropped 22 percent.
    February retail sales rose a less-than-forecast 0.5 percent
to C$36 billion ($35.9 billion), the third straight monthly
advance, led by new automobile purchases, a Statistics Canada
report showed. Total receipts were forecast to grow 1 percent,
according to the median response of 21 economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  
 The yield on June 2010 bankers’ acceptances futures
contracts fell three basis points to 0.94 percent, suggesting
investors are paring bets for a central bank rate increase that
month. The yield on September 2010 and December 2010 contracts
also fell, dropping four basis points to 1.45 percent and four
points to 1.94 percent, respectively. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 ‘Some Pressure Off’  
 “This takes some pressure off of the Bank of Canada to
hike at the June 1 meeting,” said David Love, a trader of
interest-rate derivatives in Montreal at brokerage Le Groupe
Jitney Inc. “Bax contracts have rallied somewhat, but there are
a bunch of speculative longs in here which is damping the move
higher.” A long position is a wager a security will increase.  
 The Canadian government two-year note’s yield fell three
basis points to 1.98 percent. The price of the 1.5 percent
security maturing in March 2012 rose 6 cents to C$99.13.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        