-- Canada Sovereign Bonds Lagging Behind Only Greece, Portugal: Canada Credit
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-04-23T12:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/canada-sovereign-debt-lagging-only-behind-greece-portugal-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Canadian bonds, the worst
performing sovereign-debt market the past three months after
Greece and Portugal, may fall further as investors speculate
policy makers will raise interest rates as early as June.  
 Canada’s bonds maturing in a year or more fell 0.9 percent
during the last month as investors bet the central bank may
begin raising its overnight target rate from a record-low 0.25
percent at its next meeting on June 1.  
 “The market isn’t sure if the bank will raise by quarter
points or half points,” said Sebastien Lavoie, an economist at
Laurentian Bank of Canada who expects the rate to rise to 2
percent by year-end. “There is an argument to be made for half-
point increases and when the market becomes convinced of that,
it will be reflected” in the two-year bond yield.  
 Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney this week boosted his
forecast for first-quarter growth and dropped a pledge to leave
rates unchanged until July unless the inflation outlook changed.
Investors are now considering if the central bank may raise its
rate faster than a quarter-point at each of its five meetings
until the end of the year.  
 “Short rates reflect an expectation that the bank will
start tightening in June and increase in quarter point
increments -- attention will now shift to looking for clues the
bank might tighten more aggressively” said Mohammed Ahmed, a
rates strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
Toronto. “You can expect to see a period of extreme data
sensitivity for short-term bonds -- if you have much better-
than-expected economic releases, and in particular consumer
prices, the market will respond by pushing rates higher.”  
 Ten-Year Auction  
 Statistics Canada said today that inflation slowed to 1.4
percent in March, from 1.6 percent the previous month, and the
core inflation also decelerated to 1.7 percent from February’s
2.1 percent. Economists expect the overall index to gain 1.6
percent from a year ago and the core measure to advance 2
percent. Core inflation is closely watched by the central bank
because it excludes volatile items like gasoline and gives a
better sense of trends.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the Canadian government said
yesterday it will sell C$3 billion ($3 billion) of 10-year bonds
on April 28. The 3.5 percent securities mature in June 2020, the
Bank of Canada said in a statement.  
 New Brunswick sold C$300 million of 4.8 percent bonds
maturing in June 2041, doubling its March 29 offering. The sale,
which was led by the Royal Bank of Canada, was priced to yield
89 basis points more than the comparable Canadian government
bond.  
 Yield Spread  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Canada’s provincial
bonds instead of government debt widened to 54 basis points
yesterday, from 48 basis points on April 12, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data.  
 Canada’s 1.5 percent bond due March 2012 fell 0.7 percent
over the last month to C$99.07, pushing its yield up 41 basis
points to 2.02 percent.  
 “Canada is distinguishing itself from the U.S., Europe and
the U.K. and a host of others in that it is more readily willing
to raise rates,” said Eric Lascelles, chief rates strategist
and economist at Toronto Dominion Bank. “The market is in
extreme data-dependency mode right now -- there’s an awakening
that the bank’s decisions are not pre-ordained and these figures
will have some bearings.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexandre Deslongchamps at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        