-- Canada Retail Sales Rose a Third Straight Month in February as Autos Gain
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-04-23T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/canada-retail-sales-rose-a-third-straight-month-in-february-as-autos-gain.html

          
          
             Canadian retail sales rose for a
third straight month in February, led by new automobile
purchases.  
 Sales increased 0.5 percent to C$36 billion ($35.9
billion), Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. Total receipts
were estimated to grow 1 percent, according to the median
response of 21 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Consumer spending helped pull the country out of a
recession last year and the Bank of Canada said this week
consumers will remain one of the biggest sources of economic
growth through 2012. Governor Mark Carney said yesterday he
plans to raise interest rates from a record low because the need
for emergency levels of stimulus is passing.  
 Receipts at motor vehicle and parts dealers increased for
the first time since October, gaining 2.9 percent to C$7.73
billion. New car dealer sales rose 3.8 percent, Statistics
Canada said.  
 Clothing sales rose 4.3 percent, and food and beverage
sales increased 0.5 percent on a 3.7 percent gain in alcoholic
drinks during the Vancouver Winter Olympics, the report said.  
 Sales at building material and home furnishing stores fell
in February after the federal government’s home renovation tax
credit expired. Still, sales in both categories remained higher
than they were in December, Statistics Canada said.  
 Excluding car and parts dealers, retail sales fell 0.1
percent in February, Statistics Canada said. Economists had
predicted a 0.5 percent increase, based on the median of 20
estimates.  
 Sales excluding the automotive sector, which strips out
vehicles, parts and sales at gasoline stations, fell 0.2 percent
in February.  
 The agency began using a new sample of retailers in today’s
report and made other historical revisions to its data. Using
that new system, the agency said January sales rose 0.9 percent.
Last month, under the old series, it had said retail sales rose
0.7 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        