-- Cane Farmers in India to Get More Money as Government Aims to Lift Output
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-04-23T08:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/cane-farmers-in-india-to-get-more-money-as-government-aims-to-lift-output.html

          
          
             India, the biggest sugar buyer,
raised the minimum price that millers must pay growers by 7
percent as it seeks to boost production and pare imports.  
 Cane farmers will receive 139.12 rupees ($3.10) for 100
kilograms for the 2010-2011 season starting Oct. 1, compared
with 129.84 rupees this year, the government said today.  
 India, the largest user of sugar, imported record amounts
last year after a drought parched cane fields, sending futures
in New York to a 29-year high in February. A slump in global
prices since the peak won’t deter millers in the Asian nation
from paying growers more than the floor price, as they vie to
secure raw-material supplies, according to Pranshu Mittal, an
analyst at Mumbai-based Centrum Broking Pvt.  
 “India may still import next season to build inventory”
even as output rises, he said. “Mills will be paying more.”  
 Output in Uttar Pradesh, the nation’s biggest grower may
surge 35 percent to 7 million tons next year, Shyam Lal Gupta,
secretary-general of the Uttar Pradesh Sugar Mills Association,
said in an interview yesterday.  
 India has taken steps to increase supplies by extending the
window for duty-free imports of raw and refined sugar until Dec.
31, ordering bulk consumers to hold inventories for no more than
10 days from 15 days previously and getting mills to sell on a
fortnightly basis.  
 The measures have led to prices at Vashi in Mumbai, India’s
biggest wholesale market for sugar, to decline by about a third
from a record 4,050 rupees per 100 kilograms on Jan. 8. The cost
fell to 2,740 rupees yesterday, the lowest since Aug. 6.  
 Losses  
 “Some mills may report losses in the coming quarters as
prices have fallen sharply,” Centrum’s Mittal said.  
 The stock brokerage last month recommended selling shares
of Bajaj Hindusthan Ltd., India’s biggest producer, and Shree
Renuka Sugars Ltd., the top refiner, and lowered Balrampur Chini
Mills Ltd. and Triveni Engineering & Industries Ltd. to “hold”
from “buy,” amid the slump in prices.  
 India’s production in the year ending September may total
18.5 million tons and rise to 23 million tons in the 2010-2011
season, Vinay Kumar, managing director of the National
Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd., said this week.  
 The country may have a deficit of 1.8 million tons even as
the world supplies exceed demand by 6 million tons, Centrum said
in March report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        