-- CenturyTel CEO's $10 Billion Qwest Purchase Raises Concern for Share Price
-- Amy Thomson
-- 2010-04-23T20:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/centurytel-ceo-post-contends-with-downgrades-after-10-billion-qwest-deal.html

          
          
             CenturyTel Inc.’s Glen Post built
his Louisiana phone carrier with a dozen purchases in a decade.
His latest prize is raising concern on Wall Street.  
 The 57-year-old announced a plan to buy Qwest
Communications International Inc. for about $10 billion
yesterday, a deal that would make CenturyTel the third-largest
local-phone carrier in the U.S. At least three analysts cut
their ratings on CenturyTel stock over concerns Post may
struggle to integrate his second large acquisition in a year.  
 “You’ve got to get all of your systems working together.
Screw that up, you’re going to upset customers and really damage
your business,” said Rick Franklin, an analyst at Edward Jones
in St. Louis who lowered his rating to “hold” from “buy”
after the deal was announced. “It’s a lot of growth very
quickly. Growth is hard. Acquisitions are hard.”  
 The Qwest deal comes just 10 months after CenturyTel closed
its acquisition of Embarq Corp., the company’s largest purchase
up to that point. With Denver-based Qwest, CenturyTel would grow
to about 17 million local phone lines, more than eight times the
number it had at the end of 2008.  
 CenturyTel is inheriting a troubled company in Qwest, with
three years of declining sales as home-phone users move to
mobile and digital voice service. Neither company has a
substantial wireless business. Credit-rating company Standard &
Poor’s issued a warning that it expects to rank the combined
company’s debt below investment grade.  
 “It surprised us, particularly from a timing standpoint,”
said Chris King, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore. “While we believe that CenturyTel has one of the
best management teams in the business, they certainly have their
hands full.”  
 Regulatory Scrutiny  
 Post must also contend with tougher regulatory scrutiny
that could delay the deal and shareholders’ payoff, Frank
Louthan, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc., said in
a note as he downgraded the shares to “perform” from
“outperform.”  
 CenturyTel fell 3.3 percent in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday. The shares dropped 68 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $34.33 at 4 p.m. today.  
 CenturyTel touted the deal’s potential benefits. The
acquisition will double revenue to about $20 billion and expand
its operations to 37 states. The combined company will also save
$625 million annually within three to five years by trimming
capital investments and other expenses, the companies said
yesterday.  
 ‘Great Companies’  
 “This transaction makes a lot of sense,” Post said in an
interview. “The financial characteristics of the combined
companies are very strong. The cash flows are strong. These are
two great companies.”  
 CenturyTel has a long history of successfully integrating
acquisitions, he said. The strategy in this case is to squeeze
out cost savings and boost broadband revenue by using Qwest’s
fiber-optic lines to deliver the service to more customers, he
said.  
 Qwest fell 9 cents to $5.28 in New York trading.
CenturyTel’s offer values Qwest at $5.71 a share as of today’s
closing price.  
 Harvey Perry, former general counsel at CenturyTel and now
a director, said the board had no qualms about giving Post the
go-ahead for the Qwest deal.  
 “We’re very enthused,” said Perry in an interview.  
 CenturyTel’s Start  
 The deal is expected to close in the first half of 2011,
the companies said. The purchase will face scrutiny from the
U.S. Justice Department, the Federal Communications Commission
and some state regulators, the companies said.  
 CenturyTel got its start in telecommunications
consolidation in 1930, when William Clarke and Marie Williams
bought the Oak Ridge Telephone Co. for $500, according to the
company’s Web site.  
 The company bought the La Crosse Telephone Corp. in 1972
and debuted on the New York Stock Exchange in 1978. The company
expanded with acquisitions of small carriers and pockets of
phone lines from Verizon Communications Inc. and GTE Corp. in
the 1990s and 2000s under Post, who became CEO in 1992.  
 “I’ve always felt like scale was important and that the
real growth opportunities in the industry were going to come
through acquisitions,” Post said.  
 The nature of CenturyTel’s business is changing with the
most recent acquisitions. Before the Embarq deal, CenturyTel
provided phone service mainly in rural areas of states including
Missouri, Alabama and Arkansas. Embarq brought cities such as
Las Vegas and Orlando, Florida, into the fold, and Qwest will
add Denver, Seattle and Phoenix. Qwest offers voice and Internet
services in 14 states, including Arizona, Idaho, Nebraska,
Wyoming and Montana.  
 Company Man  
 Post has spent his entire career at CenturyTel, joining the
company more than 30 years ago after getting his MBA from
Louisiana Tech University in 1976.  
 Post, when named to the university’s distinguished alumni
list, told the school the one thing he’d rather do instead of
work on Monday morning is hunt ducks, according to the Web site.
His first job was as a carpenter’s helper during the summers
while he was in school.  
 He’s still involved in the university, even allowing an
executive MBA class to meet on CenturyTel’s campus in Monroe,
James Lumpkin, the business school’s dean, said in an interview.  
 During duck-hunting season, Post often spends time in the
fields of northern Louisiana before heading into the company’s
headquarters in Monroe, say former colleagues.  
 “Glen is very much a sportsman,” said John Cassidy, the
chief executive officer at Cincinnati Bell Inc. who has known
Post for about 10 years and has hunted with him. “Whether it’s
in his business or his personal life.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
                       
                         
                           Tim Boyle/Bloomberg News 
                         
                         Jamie Dimon, chairman and chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co., leaves the Fairmont Chicago hotel after a luncheon speech in Chicago, Illinois, on April 22, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jamie Dimon, chairman and chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co., leaves the Fairmont Chicago hotel after a luncheon speech in Chicago, Illinois, on April 22, 2010.  Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 22 (Bloomberg) -- Christopher King, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about CenturyTel Inc.'s plan to acquire Qwest Communications International Inc. for about $10.5 billion.
     The deal would be the biggest between two U.S-based phone companies since the $28 billion purchase of Alltel Corp. by Verizon Wireless in 2008. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
