-- CF Industries, ATP Oil Sell Debt as Junk Bond Sales Increase 58 Percent
-- Tim Catts
-- 2010-04-23T22:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/cf-industries-atp-oil-sell-debt-as-junk-bond-sales-increase-58-percent.html

          
          
             CF Industries Holdings Inc., the
fertilizer maker acquiring Terra Industries Inc., and Houston-
based ATP Oil & Gas Corp. issued debt this week as sales of
high-yield, high-risk corporate bonds rose 58 percent.  
 ATP Oil & Gas sold $1.5 billion of five-year notes and CF
Industries issued $1.6 billion of debt in a two-part offering as
the companies tapped the U.S. corporate bond market for the
first time, according to according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. They led $10.6 billion of high-yield issuance this
week, the seventh straight week above the 2010 average.  
 Companies sold $24.5 billion of debt, compared with $24
billion last week, as the economic recovery helps profits
outpace analysts’ estimates and junk-bond yields touched the
lowest since July 2007. Issuers are taking advantage of
improving earnings and investor demand to sell high-yield debt,
said Richard B. Handler, chief executive officer of Jefferies
Group Inc.  
 “There’s a degree of confidence slowly seeping back to
CEOs and senior leaders of companies across the United States
and perhaps across the globe,” Handler said in an April 20
conference call with investors. “It’s still on a historical
basis a relatively good financing environment.” New York-based
Jefferies has helped sell $3.2 billion of high-yield debt this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Spreads Tighten  
 The extra yield investors demand to own speculative-grade
debt instead of Treasuries fell 13 basis points this week to 544
basis points, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
High-Yield Master II Index. Absolute yields fell to 8.27 percent
from 8.29 percent.  
 High-yield debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 This week’s corporate bond sales compare with a 2010
average of $24.2 billion through April 16, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 ATP Oil & Gas and CF Industries led high-yield bond sales
to the highest since the week ending March 26, when companies
sold $12.4 billion, Bloomberg data show. Issuance this week
compares with a weekly average of $5.54 billion in 2010.
Allbritton Communications Co., Agile Property Holdings Ltd. and
Dtek Finance BV were also among the 24 high-yield issuers this
week.  
 Apple Inc., the maker of iPods and Macintosh computers,
Wells Fargo & Co., the biggest U.S. home lender, and Johnson &
Johnson, the world’s largest health-products company, were among
companies reporting quarterly earnings that exceeded analysts’
estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 First-Quarter Earnings  
 Through yesterday, 116 of the 136 S&P 500 companies that
have announced last quarter’s results surpassed analysts’
expectations, Bloomberg data show.  
 The International Monetary Fund raised its forecast for
global growth, predicting the world economy will expand 4.2
percent in 2010, the fastest pace in three years. The IMF had
projected 3.9 percent growth in January. The Conference Board’s
index of U.S. leading economic indicators rose in March by the
most in 10 months.  
 Spreads on investment-grade debt contracted 2 basis points
to 151 basis points, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Corporate Master II Index. Relative yields on
industrial-company bonds narrowed to 129 basis points, the
tightest since before credit markets seized up in August 2007,
index data show.  
 Greece, Goldman Sachs  
 Greece’s struggle to manage its budget deficit, and the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s lawsuit against
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for allegedly misleading collateralized
debt obligation investors may overshadow companies’ better-than-
expected earnings, said Tim Norman, director of fixed-income
trading at Thrivent Financial in Minneapolis.  
 “There’s a lot of other noise out there besides earnings,
like what’s going on in Europe and financial regulation hanging
over our heads,” said Norman, who helps manage $64.7 billion.
“I question how much of the earnings we’re seeing were already
priced in, so maybe people weren’t all that surprised.”  
 Moody’s cut its rating on Greece’s debt one step to A3
yesterday, citing the EU’s “fractious mobilization” of
emergency aid.  
 Spreads may widen as the prospect of stricter financial
regulation looms and Greece’s budget difficulties continue, said
Arthur Tetyevsky, chief fixed-income strategist at Broadpoint
Gleacher Securities Inc. in New York.  
 “In the next couple weeks, spreads will potentially drift
wider with issues such as Goldman and Greece still weighing on
the market,” he said.  
 Investment-Grade  
 Dexia Credit Local, a unit of Brussels-based Dexia SA, sold
$4.5 billion of notes in a two-part offering and Standard
Chartered Plc, the London-based bank that makes most of its
profit in emerging markets, sold $2 billion of debt to lead
investment-grade issuance of $14 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 2010 weekly average
of $18.7 billion, Bloomberg data show.  
 Levi Strauss & Co., the maker of the namesake jeans and
Dockers pants and Cooper-Standard Automotive Inc., the maker of
vehicular fluid-handling systems, are among companies marketing
at least $8 billion of U.S. corporate bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        