-- Chile Plans First Overseas Peso Bond in Raising $1.5 Billion for Repairs
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-04-23T20:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/chile-to-sell-1-5-billion-of-bonds-abroad-in-dollars-pesos-larrain-says.html

          
          
             Chile plans its first global bond
sale in pesos as part of an effort to raise $1.5 billion through
10-year international notes and help finance repairs after the
February earthquake, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said.  
 The government plans to sell $1 billion of dollar-
denominated bonds, its first offering in overseas markets in six
years, and a debut peso bond to raise $500 million, Larrain told
reporters in New York. He said the country will “certainly”
issue the debt this year.  
 “This will be the first issuance of a peso global bond in
Chile’s history, and it is part of an agenda towards the
internationalization of the Chilean peso,” Larrain said.  
 Chile’s peso has climbed 12.3 percent against the dollar in
the past year, the third-best performing major Latin American
currency after the Brazilian real and Colombian peso. President
Sebastian Pinera also plans to increase corporate taxes and
mining royalties to fund the government’s $8.4 billion repair
bill following Chile’s fifth-largest earthquake in a century
pummeled. The temblor killed more than 400 people and caused as
much a $30 billion of damage.  
 “This is not just a one-time issue,” Larrain said. “It
is part of a medium-term strategy to feed relevant points in the
yield curve. We will be coming to the markets. We make no
commitment we will come every year, but we will come to the
markets to provide liquidity.”  
 Ratings  
 Chile, the world’s largest copper producer, is the region’s
highest-rated borrower after it became a net creditor in 2007
for the first time by paying down debt and hoarding savings in
an offshore wealth fund.  
 Moody’s Investors Service lifted the country’s credit-
rating last year to A1, the fifth-highest rating, citing the
copper savings. Standard & Poor’s grades Chile’s debt A+, in
line with Moody’s. Fitch Ratings ranks it one level lower at A.  
 Chilean five-year credit-default swaps rose to 83 basis
points yesterday from 74 basis points on Feb. 26, the day before
the earthquake, according to CMA Datavision, Inc. A basis point
on a swap insuring $10 million of debt for five years is
equivalent to $1,000 a year. The peso rose 0.07 percent to
521.05 per dollar today and was the second-best performer this
week among 26 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after Mexico’s peso with a gain of 0.5 percent.  
 Selling bonds in dollars will allow the government to leave
money in its $11.2 billion copper savings fund, said Aldo Lema,
chief economist at Banco Security in Santiago.  
 “Debt issuance allows the government to keep those
resources available in the future should capital flows and
issuance opportunities dry up,” Lema said. “The question is
how much does that insurance cost.”  
 South America’s fifth-biggest economy was recovering from
its deepest recession in a decade when it was struck by an 8.8-
magnitude temblor that may have caused damage equivalent to 17
percent of gross domestic product, according to Pinera.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        