-- China Industry Outpacing Trend Most Since 1998 Deepens Overheating Concern
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-23T10:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/china-industrial-output-gains-exceed-trend-by-most-since-1998-pboc-says.html

          
          
             China’s industrial production is
outpacing the trend rate by the most since 1998, the central
bank said, adding to concern the world’s third-largest economy
may be overheating.  
 The industrial output gap, which gauges actual production
against so-called potential, widened to 3.06 percent in March,
the People’s Bank of China said in a report on its Web site
today. Gross domestic product rose 12.2 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months at a seasonally adjusted
annualized rate, the bank also said.  
 “The widening output gap shows that the economy is
overheating and the central bank should tighten monetary
policies more aggressively,” said Peng Wensheng, head of China
research at Barclays Capital in Hong Kong. Peng expects
increases in benchmark interest rates by the end of June.  
 Today’s report reinforces evidence that the economy is
still accelerating in the aftermath of a record 9.59 trillion
yuan ($1.4 trillion) credit expansion and 4 trillion-yuan fiscal
stimulus even as officials attempt to rein in liquidity. The
PBOC has twice ordered banks to hold more reserves against
deposits, and regulators have tightened rules on property
purchases.  
 Government figures previously showed China’s GDP rose 11.9
percent in January to March from the same period a year earlier.
The National Bureau of Statistics has yet to officially publish
the quarter-on-quarter annualized rate.  
 Complex Situation  
 China’s cabinet said this month that the country faces
“extremely complex” economic situations as year-on-year growth
accelerated in the first quarter to the fastest pace in almost
three years. The PBOC reiterated today it will step up liquidity
controls and ensure moderate loan growth to keep “overall
prices stable.”  
 The government this month raised mortgage rates and down-
payment requirements on second and third homes. It also
toughened regulations on sales of uncompleted home to crack down
on house speculation and curtail price gains that are pushing up
inflation expectations.  
 The measures to rein in property bubbles will curb house
prices while avoiding a crash, central bank adviser Li Daokui
said in a telephone interview today. The government aims only to
“curtail excessive price gains in some areas” and cities such as
Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen may experience “some
correction” of not more than 10 percent, he said.  
 Overheating Signs  
 Li said at a conference today China’s economy has shown
signs of overheating in the first quarter and that raw-material
and labor costs are adding to inflationary pressure, according
to a transcript posted on Sohu.com. The country’s monetary
authorities should raise benchmark rates if the real interest
rate is negative for a notable period of time, Li was cited as
saying in the transcript.  
 China’s foreign trade will continue to improve this quarter
and the trade surplus, which narrowed 34 percent in 2009 from
the previous year, will decline again, partly due to the fragile
global recovery and increased protectionism, the central bank
said today.  
 Exports will likely expand by more than 20 percent and
import growth will remain at a high level due to strong domestic
demand and elevated commodity prices, the central bank said.
China last month posted its first trade deficit in six years as
inbound shipment growth outpaced exports by 42 percentage
points, partly due to surging overseas commodity costs.  
 Pressure on Yuan  
 China’s industrial investment rose 22.7 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier and power usage by industries
jumped 27.6 percent, the Ministry of Industry and Information
Technology said on its Web site today.  
 The country’s expansion has been led by domestic demand,
and the International Monetary Fund this week urged the nation’s
policy makers to head off any overheating. In its semiannual
World Economic Outlook, the Washington-based fund said it was
“essential” for China to rein in credit growth and let the yuan
rise to cool “excess demand pressures.”  
 Premier Wen Jiabao’s government has held the yuan at about
6.83 per dollar since July 2008 to shield the country’s
exporters from the global recession after allowing a 21 percent
advance the three prior years.  
 Finance chiefs from the Group of 20 nations may discuss the
exchange rate in talks today in Washington after India and
Brazil’s central bank chiefs joined the U.S. in calling for a
stronger yuan.  
 For Related News and Information:
Most-read stories on China: MNI CHINA 1W <GO>
Most-read China economy stories: TNI CHECO MOSTREAD BN <GO>
For top economic news: TOP ECO <GO>
For top China news: TOP CHINA <GO>
Credit crunch page: WCC <GO>
Government relief programs: GGRP <GO>  
          
          


  


        