-- Insider-Trading Trial of China's Former Richest Man Ends; No Judgment Yet
-- Debra Mao
-- 2010-04-23T09:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/china-billionaire-huang-s-graft-trial-ends-after-one-day-no-judgment-yet.html

          
          
             Huang Guangyu’s Beijing trial ended
after a one-day hearing for the insider-trading and bribery
charges against the founder of Hong Kong-listed Gome Electrical
Appliances Holdings Ltd.  
 “The trial concluded yesterday,” a female court clerk
surnamed He at the Beijing No. 2 Intermediate People’s Court
said today. The clerk said she didn’t know when the judgment
would be announced.  
 Prosecutors said Huang, once China’s richest person,
traded shares of Shenzhen-listed Beijing Centergate Technologies
(Holding) Co. Ltd. worth more than 1.4 billion yuan ($205
million) with inside information and bought $106 million of Hong
Kong currency illegally, according to the official Xinhua News
Agency.  
 Xinhua said Huang’s wife, Du Juan, and Xu Zhongmin, a
business partner of Huang’s, were also charged with insider
trading.  
 “I think the judgment will be announced within a week,”
said Zhao Guohua, a lawyer for Xu. Zhao said yesterday’s trial
lasted about 12 hours and declined to say how the defendants
pleaded.  
 Huang, who had been held by police for 15 months, was also
charged with bribing five government officials with 4.5 million
yuan in cash and property between 2006 and 2008, the Xinhua
report said.  
 China Subsidiary  
 Gome’s mainland China subsidiary, Gome Appliances Co., was
also indicted for corporate bribery. The company intends to
fight the charges, it said in a March 1 exchange filing.  
 Gome’s shares fell 2.2 percent to close at HK$2.23 in Hong
Kong. The stock has dropped 6.7 percent this year compared with
a 2.9 percent decline for the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  
 “A verdict would put a full stop to the whole legal affair
for Huang and Gome,” Kenny Tang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Redford Assets Management Ltd., said in a phone interview today.
“Huang is the largest shareholder, but the market would be
watching more closely what he will be doing with his holding in
Gome moving forward.”  
 Karin Wong of Brunswick Group LLC, hired by Gome to handle
public relations, declined to comment in a phone interview today.  
 Huang, 40, resigned as chairman of China’s second-biggest
electronics retailer by market value in mid-January 2009 and is
still Gome’s largest shareholder according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Rival Suning Appliance Co. is China’s biggest
electronics retailer by market value.  
 Bag of Radios  
 The son of a peasant, Huang dropped out of school at 16 and
traveled to Beijing from Guangdong Province with his brother,
Huang Junqin. They carried a bag of radios, batteries and other
electronics devices from factories to sell in the nation’s
capital.  
 Huang, also known as Wong Kwong Yu, topped the Hurun
Report’s China Rich List in 2008 with an estimated net worth of
$6.3 billion. Forbes ranked him 130 among the 400 richest
Chinese in 2009, with a net worth of $725 million.  
 Huang’s 28.2 percent stake in Gome is worth HK$11.2 billion,
based on the electronics retailer’s most recent share price.  
 Domestic and foreign reporters at the court yesterday
weren’t given access to the hearing. Xinhua said its reporter
wasn’t allowed to bring a pen and notebook into the courtroom.  
 Hong Kong’s High Court last year froze about HK$1.66
billion of Hong Kong assets held by Huang, his wife, and his
companies Shinning Crown Holdings Inc. and Shine Group Ltd.  
 The city’s Securities and Futures Commission in August
accused Gome and Du Juan of stock market fraud. The agency’s
investigation of Huang, which is separate to the Chinese probe,
is ongoing, SFC spokesman Jonathan Li said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        