-- China to Keep Yuan Stable Until Second Half, Invesco's Greenwood Predicts
-- Andrea Catherwood
-- 2010-04-23T10:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/china-to-keep-yuan-stable-until-second-half-invesco-s-greenwood-predicts.html

          
          
             China will keep the yuan unchanged
against the dollar until after June as exports have not returned
to pre-financial crisis levels, according to John Greenwood,
chief economist at Invesco Asset Management in London.  
 Greenwood, who was the architect of Hong Kong’s fixed
exchange rate system, also said the city’s currency will remain
pegged to the greenback when China allows the yuan to move. He
said he expects China won’t do a one-step appreciation of the
yuan, which will appreciate an average of 4 percent to 5 percent
per year against the U.S. currency.  
 “They would like to see exports return to the sort of
level they achieved before the crisis and we haven’t achieved
that yet,” Greenwood said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today. “The renewed appreciation will probably start sometime
in the second half of this year, sometime in the summer.”  
 Speculation the Group of 20 nations will press China for a
revaluation lifted yuan forwards to their strongest in three
months yesterday. Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards
traded little changed at 6.612 per dollar today, 3.3 percent
stronger than the spot rate of 6.8275.  
 After scrapping a peg to the dollar in July 2005, the
Chinese government allowed the yuan to gain 21 percent before
holding it at about 6.83 to the dollar since July 2008. While
that aids its exporters, it has incurred criticism abroad for
hurting foreign companies and fanning Chinese inflation.  
 G-20 finance chiefs begin a day of talks at 9:30 a.m. in
Washington, with a statement and press conferences scheduled for
about 5 p.m.  
 Hong Kong Dollar  
 Speculation that policy makers would be forced to abandon
the peg increased last year as funds poured into Hong Kong and
the central bank sold more than HK$480 billion ($62 billion) to
prevent currency appreciation. Pressure for gains has eased this
year as the U.S. dollar rallied, allowing the Hong Kong dollar
to strengthen against the euro and the yen.  
 The currency has been pegged to its U.S. counterpart since
October 1983 and in May 2005 policy makers introduced a trading
band, pledging to buy or sell should it rise or fall more than 5
Hong Kong cents either side of HK$7.80 per dollar.  
 “For the time being, the Hong Kong dollar will not move,”
he said. “There’s no plan to move it, there’s no intention, and
the mechanism is such that there’s no need for it to move even
if the Chinese currency starts to appreciate.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Chen in Hong Kong at 
 bchen45@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        