-- Citic Pacific Seeks Review of Documents Seized in Probe of Currency Loss
-- Debra Mao
-- 2010-04-23T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/citic-pacific-seeks-review-of-documents-seized-in-foreign-exchange-probe.html

          
          
             Citic Pacific Ltd. said it wants an
independent counsel appointed to assess whether Hong Kong police,
probing the biggest currency derivatives loss by a Chinese
company, had the right to seize certain materials.  
 “Citic Pacific believes its legal advice is privileged and
should be returned,” it said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“Material that is irrelevant to search warrants, and thus
should not have been taken, should also be returned.”  
 Police raided the head office of the Hong Kong-listed
company on April 3, 2009, investigating whether the steelmaker
and property developer had made false statements or conspired to
defraud. Citic Pacific was forced to seek aid from parent Citic
Group, which is backed by China’s cabinet, and Larry Yung
resigned as chairman.  
 Richard Turnbull, a prosecutor with the Department of
Justice, said yesterday Hong Kong investigators are still
conducting their own determination of which seized materials
might be protected by legal privilege.  
 Citic Pacific said in its statement yesterday that the
principle of privilege, the right to confidential legal advice,
is protected by Hong Kong’s Basic Law, or mini constitution.
It has asked the High Court for directions on how to proceed.  
 Citic Pacific’s board learned of the company’s bets the
Australian dollar would gain against the U.S. dollar on Sept. 7,
2008. On Sept. 12, 2008, it said “directors are not aware of
any material adverse change in the financial or trading position
of the group since 31 December 2007,” when announcing another
transaction.  
 ‘Misleading Information’  
 Three shareholders at the Small Claims Tribunal last year
called that statement “false and misleading information” and
said they lost money when they sold shares after Citic Pacific
disclosed its currency trades.  
 Citic Pacific shares slumped 55 percent on Oct. 21, 2008
after HK$14.7 billion ($1.9 billion) of potential losses from
the foreign exchange trades were disclosed.  
 Yung, the son of late Chinese Vice President Rong Yiren,
said in his filing to the tribunal that he signed the statement
on Sept. 5, before he was aware of the potential losses.  
 “It was the decision of the board with the benefit of
legal advice that Citic shouldn’t make an announcement
immediately,” Yung said.  
 Yung resigned as Citic Pacific’s chairman after the April
2009 police raid, leaving the company he had led since founding
it in 1990. His father set up Citic Group in 1979 as China’s
first state-owned investment corporation.  
 The company may be trying to avoid a court battle over what
materials were protected, said Malcolm Kemp, Head of Litigation
at Stephenson Harwood in Hong Kong.  
 “They may be trying to do this as cheaply and efficiently
as possible,” Kemp said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        