-- Coca-Cola to Expand Honest Tea Distribution Throughout U.S. to Lift Sales
-- Duane D. Stanford
-- 2010-04-23T20:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/coca-cola-to-expand-honest-tea-distribution-throughout-u-s-to-lift-sales.html

          
          
             Honest Tea, partly owned by Coca-
Cola Co., may increase sales by at least 70 percent within a
year as it becomes available throughout the U.S., said Seth
Goldman, the tea maker’s co-founder and president.  
 Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., the soda maker’s largest
bottler, and the majority of franchise distributors have
committed to the expansion, which includes some Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. locations, Goldman said today in an interview in Atlanta.  
 “You’ve got a ship leaving the port, now you’ve got a
turbo-charged engine,” Goldman said of the national
distribution. Honest Tea sold about 5 million cases last year,
for revenue of $47 million, he said.  
 Coca-Cola bought a 40 percent stake in Bethesda, Maryland-
based Honest Tea in 2008 to tap into demand for healthier
beverages amid soft-drink volume sales declines. The company has
also invested in Innocent Drinks, a maker of fruit smoothies,
and coconut-water maker Zico Beverages LLC.  
 Honest Tea, which produces U.S. Department of Agriculture-
certified organic teas, lemonades and children’s drinks, sold
the stake to get capital and access to the world’s largest
beverage distribution system.  
 Coca-Cola bottlers distribute Honest Tea in the western and
northeastern U.S., and CVS Caremark Corp. recently agreed to
sell four flavors in its stores nationally, Goldman said. The
national expansion by Coca-Cola this year won’t include New York
and some Mid-Atlantic markets, where Honest Tea will keep its
existing independent distributors, he said.  
 Scott Williamson, a spokesman for Atlanta-based Coca-Cola,
said the company looks forward to supporting Goldman’s “work in
building the Honest Tea brand,” declining to elaborate.
Officials at Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart couldn’t
immediately comment.  
 Coca-Cola helped finance a $1 million tea brewer at one of
its bottling plants to process Honest Tea, which steeps tea
leaves in hot water rather than mixing a manufactured powder,
Goldman said.  
 Coca-Cola fell 43 cents to $53.88 at 4:07 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has dropped 5.5
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        