-- Container Lines Will Achieve Rates Target on Asia-U.S. Routes, Cosco Says
-- Wendy Leung
-- 2010-04-23T11:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/container-lines-will-achieve-rates-target-on-asia-u-s-routes-cosco-says.html

          
          
             China Cosco Holdings Co., Asia’s
biggest shipping company by market value, said container lines
will win a targeted increase in Asia-U.S. rates this year
because of rebounding trade.  
 “We strongly believe that this year’s TSA rates goal can
be achieved,” Executive Vice President Sun Jiakang told
reporters in Hong Kong today. The Transpacific Stabilization
Agreement, a group of 15 shipping lines, is seeking an $800 per
40-foot box rates increase on Asia-U.S. west coast routes in
annual contracts starting around next month.  
 China Shipping Container Lines Co. said yesterday that
customers were accepting the increase after lines ended price
wars that contributed to industrywide losses last year. Trade
volumes have also jumped this year as U.S. consumers resume 
purchases of Asian-made toys, furniture and electronics amid 
the economic rebound.  
 “China Cosco and other shipping lines may have broken even
in the first quarter given how strongly the container-shipping
market has recovered,” said Jay Ryu, an analyst at Mirae Asset
Securities Co. in Hong Kong. “The concern is what will happen
after the summer peak season because there is still a lot of new
capacity entering the market.”  
 Asia-Europe Rates  
 China Cosco successfully raised rates on transpacific
routes in the first quarter, as well on Asia-Europe lanes and on
some Asia-Pacific routes, Chief Financial Officer He Jiale said.
Shipping lines were also able to add peak surcharges, he said.  
 “I’m full of confidence about this year’s outlook,” said
Chairman Wei Jiafu. “The demand for sea shipments is rapidly
increasing.”  
 China Cosco, also the operator of the world’s largest dry-
bulk fleet, fell 2.3 percent to HK$10.02 in Hong Kong trading
today. The shipping line reported an annual loss of 7.47 billion
yuan ($1.1 billion) late yesterday.  
 The company has no plans to cancel ship orders or to scrap
other investments this year, He said. Last year, it canceled
eight dry-bulk vessels as global overcapacity damped rates.
Capital expenditure will drop 12 percent to 10.2 billion yuan
this year, He said.  
 The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity-shipping costs,
will likely average around 3,000 this year, Wei reiterated.
That’s about 15 percent higher than in 2009.  
 The company has said its container fleet, China’s largest,
will likely boost volumes 8 percent this year to 5.67 million
20-foot boxes. Last year, volumes dropped 9.6 percent as the
recession sapped world trade.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Wendy Leung in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        