-- Cornell Hires Virginia Tech's Courtney as Coach of Men's Basketball Team
-- Curtis Eichelberger
-- 2010-04-23T20:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/cornell-hires-virginia-tech-s-courtney-as-coach-of-men-s-basketball-team.html

          
          
             Cornell University hired Virginia
Tech assistant Bill Courtney as basketball coach to replace
Steve Donahue, who left for Boston College two weeks ago.  
 Courtney, 39, inherits a team that won three consecutive
Ivy League titles, but that loses four of its starting five
players, including career scoring leader and Ivy League Player
of the Year Ryan Wittman and 7-foot center Jeff Foote.  
 Details of Courtney’s contract weren’t released during a
press conference at Cornell’s Ithaca, New York, campus.  
 “Bill Courtney brings an array of qualities to Cornell
basketball that I am confident will lead the Big Red to
continued success within the Ivy league and beyond,” Athletic
Director Andy Noel said in a statement. “His energy and
enthusiasm are infectious, but his attention to the details of
coaching and recruiting are what makes me confident that we have
hired a winner.”  
 The Big Red, 29-4, became the first Ivy League school since
1979 to reach the National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament regional semifinals, winning twice before losing to
the top-seeded University of Kentucky in the East Region on
March 25.  
 Cornell finished the season ranked No. 17 in the ESPN/USA
Today coaches’ poll, its first national ranking in 59 years.  
 Sophomore guard Chris Wroblewski was the lone underclassman
in Cornell’s starting lineup, averaging 29.6 minutes and 8.9
points per game. The only non-seniors who averaged more than 10
minutes a game were junior forwards Adam Wire (11.7 minutes, 1.9
points) and Mark Coury (11.1, 2.4).  
 Courtney was an assistant coach for one season at Virginia
Tech and spent eight years as an assistant at George Mason
University, where he was credited with recruiting the core group
of players that took the Patriots to the semifinals of the 2006
NCAA tournament. He also worked at the University of Virginia,
Virginia Commonwealth, Providence, Bowling Green and American.  
 Courtney was a two-time All-Patriot League choice at
Bucknell University, where he set the then-season scoring record
of 619 points as a junior and graduated with 1,499 points. He
also owns Bucknell records for career free throws made (400) and
most 20-point games in a season (16 in 1990-91).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        