-- Corn Slides on Planting Progress, Heading for First Weekly Drop in Three
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-04-23T12:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/corn-drops-on-planting-headed-for-first-weekly-loss-in-three-wheat-falls.html

          
          
             Corn fell in Chicago, heading for
the first weekly drop in three, on speculation that favorable
weather will speed up U.S. crop planting and the dollar’s
strength may erode demand for supplies from the country.  
 Corn for July delivery slipped 0.5 percent to $3.6975 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:14 p.m. Paris time.
The grain has dropped 1.1 percent this week.  
 About 19 percent of the U.S. corn crop, the world’s
biggest, was planted as of April 18, compared with 3 percent a
week earlier and 5 percent at the same time last year, the
Department of Agriculture said April 19.  
 “U.S. corn planting is progressing further, with good crop
weather in the Midwest,” Shuji Sugata, research manager at
Mitsubishi Corp. Futures Ltd. in Tokyo, said today.  
 The stronger dollar also put pressure on grains, making
U.S. crops more expensive for importers holding other
currencies, Sugata said.  
 “Weather will play a key role in coming days, as there’s a
forecast for rain this weekend and next week, limiting further
selling,” said Han Sung Min, a broker at Korea Exchange Bank
Futures Co. in Seoul.  
 Soybeans for July delivery slipped 0.2 percent to $10.135 a
bushel after touching $10.1725, the highest intraday level since
Jan. 12. The oilseed has advanced 1.8 percent this week, gaining
for a third week on speculation that China will increase
purchases of U.S. supplies.  
 China Suspensions  
 China suspended soybean-oil imports from Argentina more
than a week ago. It will only resume purchases when producers
“increase the quality and safety of the product,” the official
Xinhua News Agency said yesterday, citing Jiang Yaoping, vice
minister of commerce. The Asian country’s soybean-meal demand
will rise as farmers expand swine herds, the China National
Grain & Oils Information Center said.  
 Rapeseed for May delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris
rose 1.5 percent to 324.50 euros ($431.36) a metric ton at 2:27
p.m. local time, climbing 5 percent this week.  
 “The oilseed market continues to be supported by a mix of
rising soybeans, rising dollar and tight balance,” Paris-based
farm adviser Agritel said in a report.  
 The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, rose as much as 0.6 percent, climbing for
a seventh day on concern about sovereign finances in Europe. The
European Union said Greece’s budget deficit last year was worse
than forecast.  
 Wheat for July delivery fell 0.2 percent to $5.10 a bushel.
The grain has advanced 1.5 percent this week.  
 Milling wheat for May delivery traded on Liffe in Paris
increased 0.4 percent to 132.75 euros a ton, up 2.3 percent this
week. The November contract rose 0.9 percent to 140.25 euros,
for a weekly gain of 2.8 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at   jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        