-- Corporate Bond Sales in Europe Stifled as Greece, Volcano Sideline Buyers
-- Caroline Hyde
-- 2010-04-23T11:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/corporate-bond-sales-in-europe-stifled-as-greece-volcano-unsettle-buyers.html

          
          
             Company bond sales in Europe fell
73 percent in the slowest week this year as Greece’s struggle to
avoid default, travel chaos caused by Iceland’s volcano and the
threat of stiffer bank regulations sidelined debt buyers.  
 Bond issuance dropped to 4.5 billion euros ($6 billion)
from 16.7 billion euros a week earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Electricite de France SA, Europe’s
biggest power producer, led sales with a 1.5 billion-euro issue
of 20-year debt. Brazilian materials producer Votorantim
Participacoes SA also tapped the market for 750 million euros of
seven-year notes.  
 The cloud of volcanic ash that closed airports also cast a
shadow over bond markets. Investors were concerned that it would
combine with Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, which forced Greece
to request aid from the European Union today, and President
Barack Obama’s pledge to get tough with the financial industry
to curb economic growth.  
 “Investors are sitting on the sidelines wanting to protect
their portfolio,” said Sanjay Joshi, who oversees about $300
million as a portfolio manager at London & Capital. “Clearly a
lot of people were also trapped overseas because of the volcanic
ash, which took some volume away from the primary market.”  
 Yields on investment-grade company debt relative to the
benchmark swap rate rose 1 basis point to 115, close to the
lowest levels since January 2008, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  
 Budget Gap  
 Greece called for the activation of a financial lifeline of
as much as 45 billion euros, as the nation tries to plug a
deficit that has climbed to 13.6 percent of gross domestic
product. The euro strengthened 0.3 percent versus the dollar
after dropping to near the lowest in a year and the nation’s
bonds rose on news of the aid request.  
 The cost of insuring bank debt from default rose to the
highest in more than two months yesterday on concern an overhaul
of financial regulation in the U.S. will hurt lenders’ profits.
The International Monetary Fund proposed on April 21 that
financial institutions put aside funds to help pay for future
bailouts.  
 Airlines began returning thousands of stranded travelers to
Europe yesterday as the cloud from Iceland’s Eyjafjallajökull
volcano dispersed, easing the threat to region’s economic
growth.  
 “The cancellation of flights this week delayed companies
meeting with investors, which slowed new issuance somewhat,”
Felix Freund, a Frankfurt-based portfolio manager at Union
Investment GmbH, which oversees 160 billion euros of assets.  
 EDF, Peugeot  
 EDF’s offering of 1.5 billion euros 20-year notes was its
first sale in the currency since September, and were priced to
yield 95 basis points over the benchmark swap rate, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 PSA Peugeot Citroen sold its fourth bond this year through
its financing unit Banque PSA Finance. Europe’s second-biggest
automaker, issued 500 million euros of four-year securities
priced at a spread of 165 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  
 Galeries Lafayette, France’s largest department-store
operator, raised 300 million euros from the sale of seven-year
bonds. The unrated notes were priced at a spread of 180 basis
points over swaps, Bloomberg data show. The debt traded 2 basis
points wider at 182 yesterday, according to ING Groep NV prices
on Bloomberg.  
 Votorantim’s its first sale in euros was priced to yield
250 basis points over swaps. New World Resources NV, the Czech
Republic’s largest producer of coal used to make steel, sold 475
million euros of eight-year bonds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Cheung in London 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Hyde in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        