-- CSL Drops Most in 16 Months as Baxter Cuts Profit Outlook on Health Reform
-- Simeon Bennett
-- 2010-04-23T07:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/csl-drops-most-in-16-months-as-baxter-cuts-profit-outlook-on-health-reform.html

          
          
             CSL Ltd., the world’s second-
biggest maker of treatments made from blood, fell the most in 21
months in Australian trading after its larger rival, Baxter
International Inc., cut its 2010 earnings forecast.  
 CSL dropped 7.3 percent to A$33.94, the sharpest decline
since July 22, 2008. The stock was the biggest loser on the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index. Baxter fell the most in seven years
in New York trading yesterday after saying the U.S. health-care
overhaul will trim full-year profit to between $3.92 and $4 a
share, from its previous projection of as much as $4.28.  
 Baxter said Medicaid rebates and a change in taxes for
retiree prescription drug benefits under the health-care law
enacted in March will reduce earnings. The Deerfield, Illinois-
based company also said plasma-product market growth in the U.S.
will be weaker than previously anticipated. Melbourne-based CSL
said it doesn’t plan to change its full-year earnings forecast.  
 “We think the market’s soft, but it’s not as soft as the
Baxter result suggests,” Andrew Goodsall, an analyst with UBS
AG in Sydney, said today. CSL, which gets almost 40 percent of
sales from the U.S., will see full-year profit reduced by about
1 percent because of the increased rebates, Goodsall said.  
 Baxter and CSL derive products from human blood plasma, the
watery liquid in which blood cells are suspended, to treat
immune deficiency disorders, hemophilia, wounds and burns.  
 Price Overreaction  
 CSL’s price drop is “an overreaction” to Baxter’s
results, said Don Williams, who helps manage about A$2 billion
($1.8 billion), including the Australian company’s shares, at
Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney. “In this particular
industry, our assessment so far is that CSL is going to be able
to perform a lot better than Baxter,” he said. Williams said
he’s buying CSL shares.  
 CSL also said it completed a A$1.78 billion buyback of its
stock that it undertook after U.S. regulators blocked its $3.1
billion bid for Talecris Biotherapeutics Holdings Corp. last
year. About 25 million shares were traded today, 10 times the
daily average for the past six months.  
 Separately, the company said it stopped distributing its
seasonal flu vaccine for children in its home country after side
effects were reported in some children in the state of Western
Australia. CSL is working with the nation’s drug regulator to
investigate the cases, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        