-- CSR Wins Federal Court Appeal on Sugar Spinoff Plan
-- Wendy Pugh
-- 2010-04-23T06:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/csr-wins-court-appeal-to-overturn-ruling-that-blocked-sugar-spin-off-plan.html

          
          
               CSR Ltd ., Australia’s second-
largest building products maker, won court approval to spin off
its sugar unit as it considers a A$1.75 billion ($1.6 billion)
offer from China’s Bright Food Group Co.  
 The appeal judges considered that an “error” was made in
the initial ruling that blocked the spinoff, according to a
decision handed down today by the Full Federal Court in Sydney.  
 The lower court ruled Feb. 3 that the spinoff and proposed
capital reduction would leave the company with less capital to
meet asbestos-related liabilities. CSR’s mills produce 45
percent of Australia’s raw sugar and account for about 4
percent of the international trade.  
 “The potential demerger or a trade sale are now options
again,” said Richard Morris, a portfolio manager, who manages
about A$750 million at Constellation Capital Management Ltd. in
Sydney. The holdings include CSR shares. “It is positive for
shareholders in that it opens up the company’s options as to
what they can do with the sugar business to realize value.”  
 CSR rallied 5.6 percent to A$1.785 on the Australian stock
exchange at the 4:10 p.m. Sydney time close, the largest
advance in three weeks. The shares touched A$2.13 on Jan. 12
after Bright Food made an initial approach.  
 “We welcome today’s judgment,” CSR spokesman Martin Cole
said outside the court. “We had appealed on the basis that the
first judgment contained errors in law and we welcome the
clarification in today’s judgment,” he said.  
 Bright Talks  
 CSR said April 1 it would enter talks with Shanghai-based
Bright Food on the offer, which was conditional on regulatory
approvals and closer examination of the sugar division.  
 “If they manage to extract a fantastic offer from Bright
Food, or somebody else, then that would be hard to ignore, but
that’s still subject to due diligence and a few other things,”
Morris said. An offer of A$1.75 billion would be “worth
serious consideration,” he said.  
 A meeting of CSR shareholders to consider the spinoff
could be convened at a date and time to be determined by a
single judge of the court, according to today’s ruling.  
 “The board is of the view that the strategy to separate
the two businesses has the potential to create value for
shareholders,” Cole said today. CSR would review today’s
judgment and advise the market when it had considered legal and
commercial issues, the company said in a statement.  
 Bright Food was also considering the judgment, Luis Garcia,
a Sydney-based spokesman at Cannings, the media advisers for
Bright, said.  
 CSR  was formed in 1855 and known as the Colonial Sugar
Refining company before changing its name in 1973 after an
expansion into building materials and resource projects.  
 The company’s asbestos liabilities are from personal
injury claims related to mining in Australia, and the
manufacture and sale of products containing the material. A
provision of A$446.8 million had been made as of Sept. 30 for
claims in  Australia  and the U.S., according to CSR’s half-year
report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        