-- Czech Koruna Has Biggest Weekly Slide in Four Months on Interest-Rate Bets
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-04-23T15:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/czech-koruna-has-biggest-weekly-slide-in-four-months-on-interst-rate-bets.html

          
          
             The Czech koruna posted its biggest
weekly drop in four months as speculation deepened the central
bank may cut interest rates to weaken the currency and support
economic growth as inflation remains in check.  
 The koruna retreat to 0.9 percent this week after advancing
0.1 percent to 25.386 per euro as of 5 p.m. in Prague. The
koruna has rallied as much as 5.5 percent this year to a 17-
month high on April 14 as the global economic revival spurred
demand for riskier, emerging-market assets.  
 Deputy Governor Mojmir Hampl said on April 19
that the rate-cutting cycle may not yet be over. The currency’s
rally may hurt an export-driven recovery, and “the question is
whether it isn’t appropriate to cut rates further,” said policy
maker Vladimir Tomsik, Reuters reported yesterday.  
 “Tomsik’s comment follows earlier dovish statements by
deputy governors and supports our view for another 25 basis-
point rate cut at the next policy meeting,” BNP Paribas AS
analysts wrote in a report today.  
 Czech inflation was 0.7 percent in March, up from 0.6
percent the previous month, the statistics office reported April
9. That’s still less than the central bank’s target range of 1
percent to 3 percent.  
 A stronger koruna, while helping keep prices on imports in
check, hurts income from exports, which account for about 70
percent of the country’s gross domestic product.  
 Inflation Tame  
 The Czech central bank has room to cut interest rates as
inflation remains tame, Deputy Governor Miroslav Singer said in
an interview published April 13. Policy makers voted to keep the
main two-week repurchase rate at a record low of 1 percent on
March 25, while Tomsik and Singer sought a quarter-point
reduction. The central bank last lowered its key rate a quarter
point on Dec. 16, the seventh decrease since August to spur
economic recovery. Policy makers next meet to discuss interest
rates on May 6.  
 The economy grew 0.7 percent in the final three months of
2009, the second consecutive increase after the worst economic
slump since the fall of communism two decades.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        