-- Australia's Bishop Says Young Children Shouldn't Receive Seasonal Flu Sho
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-04-23T07:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/doctors-tell-australians-to-stop-flu-shot-for-children-on-fever-concerns.html

          
          
             Australia’s government said
children aged five years and younger shouldn’t be given CSL
Ltd.’s seasonal flu vaccine after reports of a spike in fever
and convulsions among kids in Western Australia.  
 The Therapeutic Goods Administration, Australia’s medicines
regulator, is investigating and has asked CSL to provide samples
to be tested for abnormalities, the nation’s Chief Medical
Officer Jim Bishop said today. CSL is working with regulators on
the probe, said Jo Lynch, an external spokeswoman for the
Melbourne-based company.  
 “This is a precautionary measure while the matter is being
urgently investigated,” Bishop said in a statement. There don’t
appear to be similar implications for CSL’s swine flu vaccine,
which is safe, he said.  
 Twenty-two children became ill with seizures because of
high fever within 12 hours of having their seasonal flu shots
and were taken to Perth’s Princess Margaret Hospital, the West
Australian newspaper reported on its Web site. Bishop’s
statement didn’t provide more details about the children’s
conditions.  
 CSL said in a statement it has stopped the distribution of
seasonal flu vaccine for children in Australia.  
 The company is the Southern Hemisphere’s only flu vaccine
producer. Swine flu, or H1N1, is responsible for the first
influenza pandemic in 41 years and the World Health Organization
has recommended flu vaccine makers include H1N1 as one of three
strains in this year’s seasonal flu shot.  
 CSL, also the world’s second-biggest maker of blood plasma
products, fell 7.3 percent to close at A$33.94 in Sydney trading,
the biggest decline since July 22, 2008. The stock dropped after
CSL’s larger rival Baxter International Inc. cut its 2010
earnings forecast yesterday, citing costs from the U.S. health-
care reform.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Marion Rae in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        