-- Durbin Says Obama Administration Weighing Support for Illinois Candidate
-- John McCormick
-- 2010-04-23T21:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/durbin-says-obama-administration-weighing-support-for-illinois-candidate.html

          
          
             Senator Dick Durbin, the chamber’s
No. 2 Democrat, said his party’s nominee to fill the Senate seat
once held by President Barack Obama in Illinois still lacks a
tangible show of support from the White House.  
 “It’s way too early for these commitments to be made,”
Durbin said at a news conference in Chicago. “The honest answer
is we have races all across the country, House and Senate races,
and I’m sure the president is looking to those that he can make
a difference.”  
 Durbin said he recently met with White House Chief of Staff
Rahm Emanuel and Obama Senior Adviser David Axelrod in a session
that included a discussion about the Illinois race between
Democrat Alexi Giannoulias and Republican Mark Kirk.  
 “We talked about the current situation with Alexi
Giannoulias’s campaign,” Durbin said. “Naturally, I would like
to have their help in Illinois.”  
 Durbin, who is Giannoulias’s campaign chairman, said
Emanuel and Axelrod asked the “obvious and important
questions” about the race regarding fundraising and other
matters.  
 “The president intends to help Democratic candidates in
Illinois up and down the ballot,” Matt Lehrich, a White House
spokesman, later said in a statement.  
 White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs in March said
Giannoulias had “the support and the backing of the White
House.”  
 Obama Returns  
 Obama is traveling to Illinois next week. He isn’t
scheduled to appear with Giannoulias, whose family faces the
potential closure of the bank they have owned since 1979.  
 Broadway Bank in Chicago, whose wealth helped finance
Giannoulias’s successful 2006 bid for state treasurer, has been
operating since January under a consent agreement with the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. because of commercial real-
estate loan losses. The family must raise at least $75 million
by next week to meet regulatory demands.  
 Obama has campaigned for Democrats this year in California,
Massachusetts, Colorado and Nevada. He hasn’t been back to his
adopted home state of Illinois, where unemployment is 11.5
percent, since July.  
 Obama recognized Giannoulias, a basketball buddy, as a
“potential member of Congress” during a March 9 White House
event celebrating Greek independence.  
 Durbin scolded Chicago reporters at the news conference for
focusing too much attention on Broadway Bank.  
 “Doesn’t fairness suggest, at some point, that if there
has been any wrongdoing at the bank, it shouldn’t be heaped on
his shoulders just because he has the same last name as his
brothers who are running it?” Durbin said. “Is that going to
be the Senate campaign in Illinois? I don’t think it should be.
There are bigger and more important issues.”  
 Even if the bank is closed, Durbin said he remains
confident Giannoulias can win.  
 “It is early in the campaign,” he said. “Mark Kirk has
voted against the president on every proposal he’s brought to
Congress.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        