-- Eastman Chemical Rises as Profit, Second-Quarter Forecast Exceed Estimates
-- Jack Kaskey
-- 2010-04-23T16:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/eastman-chemical-rises-as-profit-second-quarter-forecast-exceed-estimates.html

          
          
             Eastman Chemical Co., the biggest
U.S. maker of plastics for water bottles, rose the most in nine
months in New York trading after the company’s first-quarter
earnings and second-quarter forecast topped analysts’ estimates.  
 First-quarter net income was $1.37 a share and second-
quarter earnings will be $1.50 to $1.60 a share, Kingsport,
Tennessee-based Eastman said yesterday in a statement. Profit
was projected to be $1.15 a share in the first quarter, the
average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, and
$1.19 in the second quarter, according to seven analysts.  
 Chief Executive Officer Jim Rogers said on a conference
call today he’s boosting output after first-quarter sales jumped
39 percent to $1.56 billion on higher demand and prices. Sales
volumes in specialty plastics jumped 50 percent as products such
as Tritan copolyester gained market share, Rogers said.  
 “Eastman’s first-quarter performance gives us confidence
that the company can continue to drive earnings significantly,”
Charles Neivert, a New York-based analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co.,
said today in a note. Neivert raised his rating on the shares to
“buy” from “hold” after Eastman’s “breakout” results.  
 Eastman climbed $3.33, or 5 percent, to $70.45 at 12:37
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
earlier increased as much as 7.2 percent, the biggest intraday
gain since July 24. Eastman gained 11 percent this year through
yesterday.  
 Possible Unit Sale  
 The performance-polymers unit, which makes polyethylene
terephthalate, or PET, for water bottles, reported a loss and
may be sold after a strategic review, Rogers said.  
 “It could very well lead to a divestiture,” Rogers said
on the call. “We would expect something to happen this year.”  
 Bank of America Merrill Lynch is serving as Eastman’s
financial adviser in the review of strategic options for the PET
business, the chemical maker said today in a statement.  
 The PET business comprises about 81 percent of the
performance-polymers unit’s sales, the company said in a
presentation. The unit had $719 million of sales last year,
according to Bloomberg data. Revenue has declined from $2.23
billion in 2004 as the company closed plants and sold assets
outside the U.S.  
 Net income in the first quarter surged to $101 million from
$2 million, or 3 cents a share, a year earlier.  
 Eastman said full-year earnings will be $5 to $5.25 a
share. That compares with the $4.51 average estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        