-- Tebow, Bradford Drafted in NFL First Round; Fellow QBs Clausen, McCoy Wait
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-04-23T13:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/tebow-bradford-drafted-in-nfl-first-round-fellow-qbs-clausen-mccoy-wait.html

          
          
             Tim Tebow convinced the Denver
Broncos he was worthy of a first-round draft pick. Fellow
quarterbacks Jimmy Clausen and Colt McCoy are still waiting to
see which National Football League team chooses them.  
 Tebow, 22, was the second quarterback taken in last night’s
NFL draft in New York, picked 25th, 2 1/2 hours after the St.
Louis Rams made University of Oklahoma quarterback Sam Bradford
the top pick.  
 While Tebow and Bradford each won a Heisman Trophy as
college football’s best player, Tebow’s arm strength and
throwing motion have been criticized by some scouts even though
he won two national championships at the University of Florida.  
 “I’ve just been working on drills constantly -- three
workouts a day trying to get better and get a team to believe in
me,” Tebow said in a televised interview. “Not everybody has
to like you. Just one team has to like you.”  
 Tebow, the 2007 Heisman Trophy winner, joins a Broncos team
that has missed the playoffs four straight seasons and has Kyle
Orton and Brady Quinn at quarterback.  
 Bradford, the 2008 Heisman Trophy winner, is the 10th
quarterback in 13 years to be taken with the top pick in the
draft. He joins a Rams franchise that’s coming off a 1-15 season
and is 6-42 the past three years.  
 “They’re ready to start winning football games,” Bradford
said in a media conference call. “They want to win, and
hopefully I can come in and help them do that.”  
 Heisman Winners  
 The selection of Bradford and Tebow marks the third time
two Heisman winners were selected in the same draft. The last
time was 2006, when Matt Leinart and Reggie Bush were first-
round picks from the University of Southern California.  
 Bradford and Tebow were the only quarterbacks taken in the
first round of the three-day draft. The University of Notre
Dame’s Clausen and University of Texas’s McCoy are both
available in today’s second round.  
 Nine defensive linemen were taken in the first round,
including tackles Ndamukong Suh of the University of Nebraska to
the Detroit Lions at No. 2 and Oklahoma’s Gerald McCoy to the
Tampa Bay Buccaneers at No. 3.  
 Three of the top four selections were from Oklahoma, with
offensive tackle Trent Williams going fourth to the Washington
Redskins as protection for new quarterback Donovan McNabb.
Williams was among six offensive linemen taken in Round 1.  
 New York’s Giants and Jets took defensive players,
eliciting cheers from the crowd at Radio City Music Hall.  
 Giants, Jets  
 The Giants selected University of South Florida defensive
end Jason Pierre-Paul at No. 15 as they seek to improve a
defense that allowed the third-most points in the NFL last
season. The Jets used the 29th pick to add Boise State
cornerback Kyle Wilson to a defense that allowed the fewest
points in the league in 2009.  
 Offensive lineman Anthony Davis became the highest draft
pick in Rutgers history, going 11th to the San Francisco 49ers.
College teammate Devin McCourty, a cornerback, was selected by
the New England Patriots with the 27th selection, marking the
first time two Rutgers players were taken in the first round.  
 The first running back chosen was Clemson University’s C.J.
Spiller, who was drafted ninth by the Buffalo Bills.  
 The San Diego Chargers moved up to take Fresno State
running back Ryan Mathews with the 12th pick, two months after
cutting LaDainian Tomlinson, the eighth-leading rusher in NFL
history. The Lions used their second pick, the 30th overall, on
University of California running back Jahvid Best.  
 Two picks before Tebow, the Broncos added wide receiver
Demaryius Thomas from Georgia Tech. Dez Bryant of Oklahoma State
was the only other receiver drafted in the opening round, going
24th to the Dallas Cowboys.  
 Bradford’s First  
 Bradford was the ninth Heisman winner to be drafted No. 1
and the first since quarterback Carson Palmer of the University
of Southern California in 2003. He’s the third Oklahoma player
taken as the top pick, and the first since running back Billy
Sims in 1980.  
 Tebow, who didn’t attend the draft, is the fourth Florida
quarterback taken in the first round, joining Rex Grossman, John
Reaves and Steve Spurrier. Broncos coach Josh McDaniels said he
has no doubt Tebow’s college success will carry over to the NFL.  
 “There are so many things that you can say about the
kid,” McDaniels said. “He’s very enthusiastic, wants to work
hard and is one of the smarter players I’ve ever been around
coming out of college.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Michele Steele reports on the first round of the National Football League draft. 
     Sam Bradford from the University of Oklahoma was selected by the St. Louis Rams with the No. 1 overall pick last night, while Tim Tebow was picked by the Denver Broncos with the 25th overall selection.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Cade Massey, a professor at the Yale University School of Management, talks with Bloomberg’s Betty Liu about the National Football League draft and pay for first-round picks.
     Massey, speaking from New Haven, Connecticut, also compares the draft to the selection process for corporate chief executives. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
