-- ECB to Demand Loan-Level Information on Asset-Backed Bonds for Collateral
-- Esteban Duarte
-- 2010-04-23T11:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/ecb-to-demand-loan-level-information-on-asset-backed-debt-for-collateral.html

          
          
             The European Central Bank said it
will demand sellers of asset-backed securities provide detailed
information on the loans underlying the debt they pledge as
collateral for financing.  
 The central bank is trying to control the quality of bonds
backed by other assets that it accepts as security for loans to
financial institutions. By requiring more information on the
notes, the Frankfurt-based ECB said it may boost confidence in
the debt blamed in part for worsening the credit crisis.  
 “In the U.S., there is a large database of loan-level
information in the public domain which helps investors find a
price, and this is a key point to improve the liquidity for
European assets,” said Alex Maddox, the London-based head of
securitization products at Citadel Investment Group.  
 Lenders deposited 468 billion euros of asset-backed
securities with the ECB last year, up from 441 billion euros in
2008. The central bank got stung for 10.3 billion euros in 2008
when five firms, including a unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., defaulted on loans where asset-backed securities were
pledged as collateral, the ECB said at the time.  
 The ECB decided to proceed with its plan for greater
disclosure after completing a public consultation, the
Frankfurt-based bank said in a statement today.  
 “It would increase transparency, contribute to more
informed risk assessments and help to restore confidence in ABS
markets,” the ECB said in today’s statement. “The preparatory
work will begin immediately and should be completed by September
2010.”  
 Banks in Europe will have a 12-month period to adapt the
information they provide to the new requirements, the ECB said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        