-- Medicare Advantage May Weather Cuts Under New Law
-- Alex Wayne
-- 2010-04-23T22:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/medicare-advantage-plans-may-survive-subsidy-cuts-under-obama-s-health-law.html

          
          
                  April 23 (Bloomberg Government) -- Medicare Advantage
plans, private insurance for the elderly, may survive losing
$136 billion in government subsidies under President  Barack
Obama ’s health-care law.  
 Stephen J. Hemsley (UNH) , chief executive officer of UnitedHealth
Group Inc., told analysts on an earnings call this week that
reduced payments won’t keep the company’s products from
competing with Medicare insurance offered directly from the
government.  Kathleen Sebelius , the Health and Human Services
secretary, told a House Appropriations subcommittee that she
expects “a robust array of choices for Medicare recipients.”  
 Hemsley was outlining a strategy to investors and analysts
while Sebelius was fending off Republican attacks on the
overhaul legislation and soothing the elderly. A survey this
month by the  Kaiser Family Foundation , a philanthropy that
studies health-care issues, found that 45 percent of people 65
and older are “angry” about the legislation.  
 “Sebelius is right” about Medicare Advantage, said
Elizabeth A. McGlynn, associate director of Rand Health at the
Rand Corp., a research institute in  Santa Monica , California.
“We’re going to see a variety of responses from plans. We may
see plans that choose to go out of the business, and I think
we’ll see plans that get very creative in how they choose to
position themselves.”  
 Pricing Power  
 Insurers offering the plans could pressure health providers
to lower their prices, McGlynn said. Also,  Senate Democrats  and
the White House “did some smart things” to mitigate the effect
of the Advantage cuts in the final version of the health law,
said Robert A. Berenson, a former Medicare official now at the
 Urban Institute , a research foundation in Washington.  
 The  law  lets Advantage plans operating in areas where
Medicare’s costs are lower than private insurers’ costs be paid
more than the government program, said Berenson, who served in
the Clinton administration. Plans where Medicare’s costs are
higher than private insurers’ costs would get less.  
 Beginning in 2014, Advantage plans can earn 5 percent bonus
payments if they implement programs to improve the health of
their customers or the efficiency of care, he said. Insurers
could qualify if they created programs to manage chronic
diseases, for example, or new payment systems for doctors.  
 “To the extent some plans can’t make it, they probably
don’t deserve to make it,” Berenson said. “This is
competition, I think. There should be plenty of room for good
plans.”  
 Lower Fees  
 About 11 million elderly, or 24 percent of all
beneficiaries, used Medicare Advantage plans, according to the
 Medicare Payment Advisory Commission  a panel that analyzes the
program for Congress and makes recommendations.  
 The two largest U.S. health insurance companies,
UnitedHealth, based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , and  WellPoint
Inc. (WLP) , based in Indianapolis, sell Advantage plans. Smaller
rivals offering the coverage include  Humana Inc. (HUM) , based in
Louisville,  Kentucky .  
 The health legislation would cut payments to the Advantage
plans by about $136 billion over the next 10 years, the
 Congressional Budget Office  says. The reduction is necessary to
help pay for the law’s expansion of health insurance coverage to
about 32 million people younger than 65 who would otherwise lack
it. The budget office says the law will cost about $940 billion
over the next decade.  
 Obama and congressional Democrats targeted the private
plans for reductions early in the health debate, arguing that
the programs received excessive payments. That sparked a fight
with insurers and gave Republicans a way to target elderly
voters. The present form of Advantage plans arose from 2003
legislation under President  George W. Bush .  
 ‘Disruption’ for Elderly  
 While the Advantage cuts in the final law aren’t as deep as
earlier proposals, the industry’s trade group says the
reductions will hurt.  
 “These very severe cuts will inevitably cause disruption
for seniors, and particularly for seniors who count on health
plans’ value-added services that emphasize prevention and
wellness, coordination of care, and better management of chronic
conditions,” said Mike Tuffin, a spokesman for  America’s Health
Insurance Plans , the trade association, in an e-mailed
statement.  
 The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, in a  March 19
analysis  of the health-care legislation, did estimate that
enrollment in the private plans would drop to about 9.1 million
by 2019, a 17 percent reduction from now. Medicare’s chief
actuary, Richard S. Foster, estimated a drop to 7.4 million.  
 Angry Elderly  
 “This bill takes health-care benefits away from seniors
who are on Medicare Advantage,” Senator  Jon Kyl , Republican of
 Arizona , said in a floor speech March 24. “That is the truth.”  
 The 45 percent of elderly in the Kaiser poll found to be
“angry” over the law compares with 26 percent of people
younger than 65. Less than a third, 32 percent, of the elderly
had a favorable opinion of the law, compared with 49 percent in
the younger group. The telephone survey was conducted April 9-
14. The data on the elderly were taken from a larger survey that
had a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  
 People enrolled in the private plans have their benefits
paid for by a private insurer, instead of by the government.
Many of the plans offer lower co-payments and greater benefits
than the government program,  according to Medicare’s
administrators . That may include gym memberships and discounts
on hearing aids and eyeglasses. Some are managed-care plans that
limit their customers’ selection of doctors and hospitals.  
 UnitedHealth Profits  
 The government pays the plans a fee for each customer. The
 Medicare Payment Advisory Commission  estimates that Medicare
Advantage plans will be  paid about 9 percent more  for each
beneficiary in 2010 than traditional Medicare’s costs.  
 Advantage plans contributed to a 21 percent increase in
first-quarter net income at UnitedHealth, the company reported
April 20. The number of Advantage policies the company wrote
rose 18 percent, offsetting a decline in commercial policies.  
 “We have said for some time now that our Medicare
Advantage business must ultimately be able to perform better
than fee-for-service Medicare on a comparable-benefits basis and
with care quality considered,” Hemsley said on a conference
call the day earnings were reported. “We believe we can achieve
and sustain that standard in the majority of our local
markets.”  
 The company also sees opportunities to sell products
through  AARP , the lobbying group for people 50 and older, he
said. The group receives royalties from UnitedHealth in exchange
for the company’s use of the AARP brand on Medicare Advantage
and Medicare supplemental plans.  
 AARP Alliance  
 The Obama administration also has an alliance with the
AARP, which endorsed the health-care revamp.  Congressional
Republicans , in a letter to Hemsley this week, asked for details
on the insurer’s relationship with AARP.  
 Sebelius’ department held an  online chat  this week with
government officials and AARP president Jennie Chin Hansen. One
person who submitted a question for the chat asked about a rumor
that Medicare Advantage would disappear by 2014.  
 “That is simply not true,” replied  Jonathan Blum ,
director of the Center for Medicare Management, a Medicare
agency.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Riley at   mriley17@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kathleen Sebelius, U.S. health and human services secretary, speaks at the
World Health Care Congress in Oxon Hill, Maryland, U.S., on Tuesday, April 13,
2010. The meeting of chief executive officers and senior executives from all
sectors of the health care industry runs until April 14. Photographer: Jay
Mallin/Bloomberg *** Local Caption  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
