-- Megacable Pulls Out of Mexico's Airwaves Auction, a Month Before the Start
-- Crayton Harrison
-- 2010-04-23T21:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/megacable-pulls-out-of-mexico-s-airwaves-auction-a-month-before-the-start.html

          
          
             Megacable Holdings SAB, Mexico’s
biggest cable-TV provider, pulled out of the government’s
planned auction of mobile-phone airwaves after determining that
offering its own wireless service wouldn’t make financial sense.  
 Megacable is examining whether to resell the service of a
wireless carrier, according to a company statement to the
Mexican stock exchange. Guadalajara, Mexico-based Megacable
decided to drop out after a “financial viability” analysis, it
said, without offering details.  
 The decision allows the company to pursue a reselling
agreement with Telefonica SA to offer Megacable’s customers
packages of TV and wireless plans. That would present a
challenge to America Movil SAB, Mexico’s largest wireless
carrier, which has no television partner.  
 Megacable would “most probably” choose Madrid-based
Telefonica for a reselling deal if it doesn’t bid for airwaves
in the auction, said Raymundo Fernandez, the cable company’s
chief operating officer, in a Feb. 26 conference call.  
 Grupo Televisa SA, which controls three cable operators in
Mexico, is participating in the auction in a partnership with
NII Holdings Inc., the smallest of Mexico’s four wireless
carriers. Axtel SAB, Mexico’s second-largest land-line phone
company, and VDT Comunicaciones SA, a land-line carrier in
Monterrey, also registered to enter the airwaves auction.  
 America Movil, Telefonica and mobile-phone company Grupo
Iusacell SA also have signed up for the auction, which begins
May 25.  
 Megacable fell 9 centavos to 29.82 pesos at 4 p.m. New York
time in Mexico City trading. The shares have risen 7.3 percent
this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        