-- Lehman, Simon Property, General Growth, Crescent, Drug Fair: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-04-23T12:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/lehman-simon-property-general-growth-crescent-drug-fair-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the
holding company for the liquidating broker, filed an operating
report showing that cash declined by $155 million in March. The
balance at the end of the month was $16.6 billion.  
 The Lehman holding company ended March with $2.3 billion in
cash. Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc. had $6.17 billion
in cash and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. held $2.72 billion in
cash.  
 Cash receipts in the month were $3.32 billion.  
 From the inception of the Chapter 11 cases in September
2008, professional fees totaled almost $732 million, with $262.2
million for services from Alvarez & Marsal LLC, the financial
advisers. Fees for Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, the chief
bankruptcy counsel, have totaled $164.8 million.  
 Attorneys for the official creditors’ committee from
Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP have been paid $47.7 million.
To read other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 Lehman filed a Chapter 11 plan which estimates that
holding-company creditors will recover 14.7 percent. The
estimates for units Lehman Commercial Paper and Lehman Brothers
Special Financing are 44.2 percent and 24.1 percent,
respectively.  
 For more on Lehman’s disclosure statement, click here for
the April 15 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For more about the
plan, click here for the March 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment-banking business to London-based Barclays
Plc one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Updates  
 Simon Attracts More Co-Investors for General Growth  
 Simon Property Group Inc. continues sweetening its offer to
be among the investors who help reorganize shopping-mall owner
General Growth Properties Inc.  
 Yesterday, Indianapolis-based Simon sent General Growth a
letter outlining the advantages to its offer. Simon also said
that five investors have joined its team by agreeing to provide
$2.1 billion of a $3.8 billion equity-rights offering at $10 a
share. Simon will backstop the remainder.  
 In addition to the $2.5 billion that Simon would invest in
place of Brookfield Asset Management Inc., Simon will backstop a
$1.5 billion credit agreement that must be in place for General
Growth to implement its contemplated reorganization plan. Simon
will require no fees for the backstop and no warrants for being
in the group that would provide the equity investment in the
reorganization.  
 Simon says that the forgone warrants are worth $895
million. To entice unsecured creditors, Simon said it would
allow not only post-bankruptcy interest, but also default-rate
interest where applicable.  
 Bruce Berkowitz from Fairholme Capital Management LLC sent
General Growth a letter yesterday saying it is “not willing to
invest in GGP if equity ownership is concentrated in the hands”
of Simon, “passive or not.”  
 The General Growth case is unusual in how ordinarily
behind-the-scenes negotiations are being conducted through press
releases and regulatory filings.  
 To read about the reorganization structure proposed by
General Growth in late March based on the $6.55 billion
investment from the three potential plan sponsors, click here to
see the April 1 Bloomberg daily bankruptcy report.  
 Simon reiterated the advantages to its offer in a court
filing yesterday in opposition to approval of bidding procedures
and the granting of warrants to the three investors. The
official committees representing unsecured creditors and
stockholders filed opposition papers, too, likewise opposing the
warrants. To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 General Growth has a hearing on April 29 to approve
warrants for the stalking-horse investors that Simon believes
are unnecessary. The judge at the same hearing is to decide on a
schedule for completing the reorganization. Initial bids were to
have been submitted by April 19, allowing General Growth’s board
time to decide which bid to support in advance of the hearing.  
 General Growth has tentative plans for a July 30 hearing
for approval of a disclosure statement and a confirmation
hearing for approval of a plan on Sept. 30.  
 In seven batches of confirmations since December, General
Growth formally reorganized and implemented Chapter 11 plans for
property-owning subsidiaries with $12 billion in debt. In
addition to the holding company, plans for subsidiaries with
$1.8 billion in debt remain to be formally reorganized.  
 General Growth began the largest real estate reorganization
in history by filing under Chapter 11 in April 2009. The books
of Chicago-based General Growth had assets of $29.6 billion and
total liabilities of $27.3 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008. The
company owns or manages more than 200 shopping-mall properties.  
 The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Five Mile, Secured Lender, Opposes Crescent Resources Plan  
 Five Mile Capital Partners LLC filed an emergency motion
asking for permission to send a letter urging secured lenders to
vote against the reorganization plan of real-estate developer
Crescent Resources LLC.  
 Five Mile, one of the original lenders and owner of $112.5
million in secured debt, says the plan is generally acceptable.
Five Mile now wants creditors to vote “no” because corporate
governance documents filed after approval of the disclosure
statement provide that the board of the reorganized company will
have “no fiduciary duty of care or fiduciary duty of loyalty”
to the company, the emergency motion says.  
 While acknowledging that the new board will be controlled
by three holders of secured debt, Five Mile is afraid that the
controlling creditors may authorize a sale to make a “quick
profit” because they bought their claims during the bankruptcy
case at “deeply distressed levels.”  
 Five Mile points out that the proposed corporate documents
would allow board members to compete with Crescent or “take
corporate opportunities for themselves.”  
 The deadline for voting is May 10. The hearing for
confirmation of the plan is set for May 20.  
 The court-approved disclosure statement tells holders of
$1.55 billion in pre-bankruptcy loans that they may recover 38
percent by receiving all the new stock and $265 million in two
tranches of second-lien notes.  
 General unsecured creditors with almost $305 million in
claims are to have the senior interest in a litigation trust.
The pre-bankruptcy lenders will have a subordinate interest in
the trust. The disclosure statement doesn’t have a percentage
recovery for unsecured creditors.  
 Secured lenders with mortgages against specific projects
are being paid in full, in some cases by receiving their
collateral.  
 Crescent, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, filed under
Chapter 11 in June with commercial, residential and multifamily
projects in 10 southeastern and southwestern states. It listed
assets of $2.2 billion against debt totaling $1.9 billion,
including almost $1.5 billion on pre-bankruptcy credit
agreements. Crescent is a joint venture between Duke Energy
Corp. and Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund.  
 The case is In re Crescent Resources LLC, 09-11507, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Western District of Texas (Austin).  
 Drug Fair Sets June 3 Confirmation for 0.5% Plan  
 Drug Fair Group Inc., a liquidated chain of 58 drug and
general merchandise stores, scheduled a June 3 hearing for
approval of a Chapter 11 plan when the bankruptcy judge in
Delaware approved the explanatory disclosure statement on April
21.  
 Drug Fair filed under Chapter 11 in March 2009 and rapidly
liquidated the stores. The disclosure statement says creditors
can expect a 0.5 percent recovery.  
 Through the liquidation sales, secured creditors already
were fully paid on their $64.5 million in claims. The company
now is holding some $2.5 million for distribution to unsecured
creditors resulting from a settlement in June with the lenders.  
 The general unsecured creditors have claims of about $55
million, according to the disclosure statement.  
 The Drug Fair stores were in central and northern New
Jersey. The company is indirectly owned by Sun Capital Partners
Inc., a private-equity firm based in Boca Raton, Florida.  
 Assets were listed for $90.7 million against debt of $120.3
million as of July 2008. Debt included $44.1 million owing on a
first-lien revolving credit. Second-lien lenders were owed $20.5
million on a term loan.  
 The case is In re Drug Fair Group Inc., 09-10897, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Boyd Gaming Opposes Station Casinos’ Auction Procedures  
 Boyd Gaming Corp. surfaced again publicly as a bidder
for Station Casinos Inc.  
 In filings on April 21 in bankruptcy court in Reno, Nevada,
Boyd reiterated its $2.45 billion offer from December to buy
Station with cash and assumed debt. Las Vegas-based Boyd said
that Station’s proposed auction procedures slant “the playing
field in favor of the insider” while inflicting “blatant harm
on the Opco estate.”  
 In addition to proposing changes that won’t “chill
competitive bidding,” Boyd is opposing Station’s request for an
extension until May 24 of the exclusive right to propose a
Chapter 11 plan. Hearings are scheduled for May 5 on the
exclusivity and auction-procedure motions. To read other
Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 Station announced an agreement this week where a group
including current owners Frank and Lorenzo Fertitta will make
the first bid of $772 million to take control of substantially
all of the businesses. The new proposal wraps in a plan filed in
March for some of the casinos. To read about the new plan, click
here. For details of the March plan, click here.  
 The creditors’ committee contends that the leveraged buyout
in November 2007 left the company with $1.7 billion in new debt,
a “crushing burden that offered virtually no value in return.”  
 The committee has been so far unable to win authority for
filing suit based on claims that the LBO resulted in fraudulent
transfers. The committee in addition would bring a second suit
where it aims to recharacterize leases as disguised financings.  
 Station filed under Chapter 11 in July. It has 13
properties in Las Vegas plus five joint ventures. The company
also operates casinos for American Indian tribes.  
 The case is In Re Station Casinos Inc., 09-52477, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  
 Accredited Homes Settlement With Insurers Approved  
 Accredited Home Lenders Holding Co., a home-mortgage
originator and securitizer before the Chapter 11 filing in May,
received approval from the bankruptcy judge for settlements with
two workers’ compensation insurance providers.  
 While Accredited Home was essentially self-insured, state
law required having insurance policies. Zurich American
Insurance Co. and Hartford Fire Insurance Co. provided coverage,
though both held cash or letters of credit to cover their
exposure should Accredited Home not make good on claims.  
 The settlement has Zurich receiving $307,000 while
returning $588,000 to Accredited Home. Hartford, which cashed a
$815,000 letter of credit and was holding another $41,000 cash
deposit, will return the excess after deducting $308,500 to
cover claims.  
 The secured lenders’ motion for conversion of the case to a
liquidation in Chapter 7 was adjourned to May 20. A motion by
the unsecured creditors’ committee to sue owner Lone Star Funds
was put back to the same date.  
 The company said in late March that discussions on a
Chapter 11 plan were at an “impasse.”  
 The indenture trustee for junior subordinated-note holders
already sued Lone Star, contending that fraudulent
representations were made in connection with the $300 million
acquisition in 2007.  
 Accredited sold the mortgage-servicing business in July
after the Chapter 11 filing in May. Most of the mortgage loans
were sold later. Lone Star also owns Bruno’s Supermarkets LLC
and Bi-Lo LLC, two grocery retailers in Chapter 11.  
 The Chapter 11 petition said assets are less than $50
million while debt exceeds $100 million.  
 The case is In re Accredited Home Lenders Holding Co., 09-
11516, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Briefly Noted  
 Extended Stay Bid Procedures Approved for May 27 Auction  
 After a long hearing yesterday, Extended Stay Inc., the
operator of more than 680 long-term lodging properties in 44
states, received approval of bidding procedures for an auction
on May 27 to determine who will provide financing for the
reorganization plan. To read Bloomberg coverage of the hearing,
click here. Bids are due initially by May 17, preceding the
auction. Taking the best bid from the auction, Extended Stay
will modify the Chapter 11 plan and hold a June 17 hearing for
approval of the revised disclosure statement explaining the
plan. Extended Stay intends to hold a confirmation hearing for
approval of the plan no later than July 22. Extended Stay’s
Chapter 11 petition in June listed assets of $7.1 billion
against debt totaling $7.6 billion, including $4.1 billion in
mortgage loans and $3.3 billion in 10 different mezzanine loans.
Based in Spartanburg, South Carolina, Extended Stay says it’s
the largest operator of mid-priced extended stay hotels in the
U.S. The properties are almost all managed by non-filed
affiliate HVM LLC. The case is In re Extended Stay Inc., 09-
13764, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 O’Hare Hotel Gets More Exclusivity, Has No Plan Yet  
 River Road Hotel Partners LLC, owner of the
InterContinental Chicago O’Hare hotel near Chicago’s largest
airport, received an extension of the exclusive right to propose
a reorganization plan until June 9. The judge previously said
that River Road couldn’t have another extension request without
giving secured lenders a “written, specific and detailed
restructuring proposal” by April 9. Although the proposal was
delivered on time, the lender said it was “wholly
unacceptable.” River Road filed under Chapter 11 in August in
Chicago along with affiliate RadLAX Gateway Hotel LLC, the owner
of the Radisson hotel at Los Angeles International Airport. Both
are ultimately controlled by Harp Group. The O’Hare property,
opened in September, has $155 million in debt while the Radisson
owes $120 million. The lender for both hotels is San Diego
National Bank. The case is In re River Road Hotel Partners LLC,
09-30029, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  
 Downgrade  
 Regal Entertainment, Chapter 11 Survivor, Lowered to B1  
 Regal Entertainment Group, the operator of almost 6,800
movie screens in 548 theaters in 39 states, received a downgrade
yesterday from Moody’s Investors Service that reduced the
corporate rating by one notch to B1.  
 Moody’s based its action on “gradually deteriorating
coverage measures” and “relatively nominal levels of free cash
flow.” On the plus side, Moody’s said cash flow is “recession-
resistant” and liquidity is “generally solid.”  
 Regal is a veteran of Chapter 11. Regal confirmed a
prepackaged Chapter 11 plan in December 2001, when it had about
3,800 screens in 328 theaters, listing assets of $1.9 billion
and debt totaling $2.3 billion.  
 Philip Anschutz and Oaktree Capital Management LLC took
control under the plan, which gave all of the reorganized
company’s stock plus cash to the holders of bank debt who were
paid in full. Subordinated-debt holders shared a pool of $181
million cash. Unsecured creditors were to be paid in full by
sharing a pot of $75 million cash.  
 Anschutz remains the largest shareholder, with 38 percent
of the stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Regal, based in Knoxville, Tennessee, reported net income
of $95.5 million last year on sales of $2.89 billion. Net income
in 2008 was $112.2 million on sales of $2.77 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        