-- Eleven Men Indicted on Piracy Charges in Navy Attacks Off African Coast
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-04-23T19:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/eleven-men-indicted-on-piracy-charges-in-navy-attacks-off-african-coast.html

          
          
             Eleven men were indicted by a
federal grand jury on piracy charges in connection with attacks
on U.S. Navy ships off the coast of Africa.  
 The men, captured within the last month after attacking or
exchanging fire with U.S. Navy vessels in African waters, face
charges of piracy, conspiracy and assault with a dangerous
weapon under indictments unsealed today in federal court in
Norfolk, Virginia. The U.S. warships were operating as part of
an international flotilla protecting shipping in the region.  
 The men “maliciously attacked and set upon” Navy ships
“with an intent to unlawfully plunder” them, according to the
indictment.  
 Navy personnel captured five of the alleged pirates
March 31 after they exchanged fire with the frigate USS Nicholas
off the Seychelles, according to court papers.  
 The other six were taken into custody after they allegedly
attacked the amphibious dock landing ship USS Ashland on April
10 off the coast of Djibouti.  
 The men, who the U.S. said are Somali, were arraigned in
federal court in Norfolk today before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Tommy E. Miller. The judge, who read the charges through an
interpreter, told the men that a piracy conviction carried a
maximum penalty of life in prison. Miller also said lawyers
would be appointed to defend them.  
 Wheelchair, Crutches  
 Nine of the defendants were outfitted in orange or green
prison jumpsuits. One was in a wheelchair and another defendant
entered court on crutches with bandages on his head and hands.
The two were injured in the attacks, prosecutors said.  
 The indictments were returned last week, prosecutors said
in a statement. The men were brought to Virginia by military
transport plane today and were turned over to the U.S. Marshals
Service, prosecutors said at a press conference. The men could
face trial as early as June.  
 “Since the earliest days of this country, piracy has been
a serious crime,” Neil MacBride, the U.S. attorney for the
eastern district of Virginia, said in the statement. “Piracy
threatens human lives and disrupts international commerce. When
pirates attack U.S. vessels by force, they must face severe
consequences.”  
 MacBride said the men are being tried in Norfolk because
they attacked ships that are based in Virginia.  
 Home Ports  
 The U.S.S. Nicholas is an Oliver Hazard Perry class frigate
home-ported in Norfolk. The U.S.S. Ashland is a Whidbey Island-
class dock landing ship home-ported in Little Creek, Virginia.  
 The U.S. and its allies agreed this year to consider
setting up a system under which suspected pirates could face
trials and prison terms outside their home countries. Some
countries have been reluctant to bring cases against piracy
suspects because of jurisdictional questions.  
 While prosecutors in Kenya have brought some piracy cases
to court, officials there say the trials are putting a strain on
the country’s justice system.  
 The case is U.S. v. Maxamad Cali Scaid, 2:10-cr-00057, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Norfolk, Virginia, at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        