-- Emerging-Market Equities Decline on Concerns Over Greece, China Property
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-04-23T06:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/emerging-market-equities-decline-on-concerns-over-greece-china-property.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks fell,
sending a benchmark index to its worst week in almost three
months, after Greece’s deficit and China’s property clampdown
raised concern the global economic recovery may falter.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 0.1 percent to
1,019.42 as of 1:25 p.m. in Singapore. The measure has slid 1.2
percent this week, on course for the worst week since Feb. 5, as
Greek bonds and stocks plunged and Chinese officials this week
told banks to stop loans for some third-home purchases.  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. led losses in
China on concern a crackdown on real-estate purchases will hurt
loans. Thailand’s stocks and currency declined the most in Asia
after grenade blasts killed three people and injured 75 others
in the capital Bangkok.  
 “There clearly are concerns, notably in China, where
property has gotten frothy in a number of different areas,”
Timothy Moe, chief Asian strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “It’s a bit more
challenging right now given the uncertainty about policy
tightening and a variety of global factors.”  
 The Group of 20 industrial and developing nations meets
today and is expected to discuss Greece amid concern the Euro
member will be forced to restructure its debt. Greek bonds and
stocks plunged yesterday as Moody’s Investors Service cut its
rating on Greek debt one notch to A3 and the EU revised the
country’s budget deficit higher.  
 State Council  
 China’s Shanghai Composite Index retreated 1 percent,
taking its declines this week to 5.2 percent, set for the
largest weekly drop since Nov. 27. The State Council told banks
to stop loans for third-home purchases in cities with excessive
property price gains and to suspend lending to non-residents
without tax returns or proof of social security contributions in
that city. Local governments may also limit the number of units
that can be bought, according to an April 17 statement.  
 ICBC, as the nation’s largest bank is also known, retreated
1.1 percent to 4.53 yuan in Shanghai. Bank of Communications Co.
declined 2.6 percent to 7.14 yuan.  
 Thailand’s SET Index fell 1.3 percent, the most among Asian
benchmark indexes, while the baht weakened 0.2 percent against
the dollar.  
 Financial District  
 At least five grenades exploded in a Bangkok financial
district near an anti-government protest, including one near a
hotel and another at Bangkok Bank Pcl’s headquarters, government
spokesman Panitan Wattanayagorn said yesterday. Airports of
Thailand Pcl, the nation’s biggest airfield operator, fell 1.5
percent to 33.75 baht, while Bangkok Bank lost 1.3 percent to
117.5 baht.  
 AU Optronics Corp., Taiwan’s second-largest maker of
liquid-crystal displays, climbed 3.6 percent to NT$37.65 after
posting first-quarter profit that beat estimates and forecasting
better than expected second-quarter sales.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        