-- Emerging Bond Funds Get $1.28 Billion, Extending Record Inflows, EPFR Says
-- Garfield Reynolds
-- 2010-04-23T12:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/emerging-bond-funds-get-1-28-billion-extending-record-inflows-epfr-says.html

          
          
             Emerging-market bond funds took in
$1.28 billion in the third week of April, a tally second only to
the previous week’s record $1.8 billion of inflows, ahead of
debt offerings from Egypt and Russia, EPFR Global said.  
 The funds have attracted $11.6 billion this year, more than
the record annual total of $9.7 billion set in 2005, the
Massachusetts-based research company said in an e-mail. The
extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market debt over
U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points to 2.42 percentage
points at 1:10 p.m. in London, down from 5.62 percentage points
a year ago, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  
 Funds investing in local-currency debt continued to account
for the biggest portion of inflows, EPFR said. Currency gains
are boosting returns on the securities for global investors,
prompting Western Asset Management Co. to raise holdings of debt
denominated in local currencies instead of dollar notes.
Emerging-market currencies strengthened today, led by a 0.4
percent gain in Mexico’s peso against the dollar.  
 Currency strength “attracts a lot of investment in
itself,” said Rajeev de Mello, the Singapore-based head of
Asian investment at Western Asset, which oversees about $482
billion.  
 Bond funds monitored by EPFR Global, which tracks $13
trillion in assets globally, received $5.94 billion in the past
week, bringing year-to-date investments to $83.5 billion. Those
investing worldwide attracted a record $2.64 billion and equity
funds altogether absorbed $3.6 billion, the research firm said.  
 Bond Returns  
 Emerging-market bonds handed investors a 5.6 percent return
this year, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Diversified
Index, the broadest gauge of markets in 39 countries. U.S.
Treasuries advanced 1.5 percent and European debt rose 1.6
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s indexes.  
 Russia yesterday sold $5.5 billion of bonds, the second-
biggest emerging-market dollar debt offering on record. Egypt
also returned to the dollar market for the first time in nine
years yesterday, raising $1.5 billion.  
 Emerging-market equity funds had inflows of $1.9 billion in
the past week. Latin American funds remained under pressure,
with investors pulling out $151 million, amid concern of
interest-rate increases in Brazil, according to EPFR.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of shares in 22 countries
climbed 0.2 percent today after Greece asked the European Union
to activate a rescue package and German business confidence beat
economist forecasts.  
 Europe equity funds had an 11th week of outflows on concern
about Greece’s ability to meet its borrowing requirements, EPFR
said. Moody’s Investors Service yesterday lowered its rating on
Greek debt by one notch to A3 and the European Union revised the
country’s budget deficit higher to 14 percent of gross domestic
product last year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        