-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance for Third Day; Russia Rallies on Inflows
-- Tal Barak Harif
-- 2010-04-23T22:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/emerging-market-stocks-advance-for-third-day-russia-rallies-on-inflows.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks rose for a
third time this week after Greece asked the European Union to
activate a rescue package and the biggest jump in U.S. new home
sales in almost five decades bolstered optimism the economy is
improving.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of shares in 22 countries
climbed 0.3 percent to 1,024.07 by 5 p.m. in New York. The
measure fell 0.8 percent this week. Russia’s Micex index rose
the most in seven days after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
there’s 28 percent “upside potential” in the equity market
this year and stock funds posted a 10th week of inflows.
Brazil’s Bovespa index gained for a third day. The Shanghai
Composite Index dropped 0.5 percent on concern government
measures to curb the property market will reduce spending.  
 “The risk reward is pretty good even though we may have to
endure a little bit more uncertainty in terms of the policy
tightening cycle,” Timothy Moe, Hong Kong-based chief Asian
strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said on Bloomberg
Television. A gain in the yuan means tightening is “closer to
the end rather than to the beginning” and is a “powerful
signal for people to become more constructive on equities on a
broader basis,” he said.  
 Purchases of new homes climbed to an annual pace of 411,000
that exceeded the highest forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, figures from the Commerce Department showed.
Greece called for activation of a financial lifeline of as much
as 45 billion euros ($60 billion) this year.  
 Fund Flows  
 The Group of 20 finance chiefs called for “credible”
plans to withdraw economic stimulus as the recovery gains
momentum and Greece’s fiscal turmoil highlights the risks posed
to it by mounting government debt.  
 Emerging-market bonds took in $1.28 billion in the third
week of April, a tally second only to the previous week’s record
$1.8 billion of inflows, ahead of debt offerings from Egypt and
Russia, EPFR Global said.  
 The funds have attracted $11.6 billion this year, more than
the record annual total of $9.7 billion set in 2005, the
Massachusetts-based research company said in an e-mail. The
extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market debt over
U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to 2.43 percentage points,
down from 5.62 percentage points a year ago, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  
 Russia yesterday sold $5.5 billion of bonds, the second-
biggest emerging-market dollar debt offering on record. Egypt
also returned to the dollar market for the first time in nine
years yesterday, raising $1.5 billion.  
 Emerging-market equity funds had inflows of $1.9 billion in
the past week. Latin American funds remained under pressure,
with investors pulling out $151 million, amid concern of
interest-rate increases in Brazil, according to EPFR.  
 Russia’s OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel and OAO Novolipetsk
Steel jumped more than 3.5 percent after Goldman Sachs upgraded
the stocks.  
 Gerdau SA, the steelmaker that gets about a third of its
revenue from North America, jumped 2.6 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        