-- Mercedes Mobile Nuclear Lab to Hunt for Terrorists
-- Jonathan Tirone
-- 2010-04-23T08:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/mercedes-mobile-nuclear-lab-to-hunt-for-terrorists-at-euro-soccer-in-2012.html

          
          
             United Nations atomic inspectors
are rolling out new radiation-detection tools to foil possible
terrorist attacks at the UEFA Euro soccer tournament to be
hosted by Poland and Ukraine in 2012.  
 International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors, asked on
April 13 by President Barack Obama to hunt down missing nuclear
material worldwide, yesterday certified a 550,000 euro
($728,000) mobile nuclear lab that will roam Ukraine’s roads
ahead of the 16-nation soccer tournament. The vehicle was made
by Daimler AG’s Mercedes unit, based on the Sprinter 515, and
designed by Finland’s closely held Environics Oy, the IAEA said.  
 “This van is to find radioactive material in places that
it should not be, for example in a major public-events venue,”
Anita Nilsson, the IAEA nuclear security chief, said in an
interview yesterday. “It can scan large areas for radioactive
substances and be used to identify any of the radioactive
signals coming into the van.”  
 Ukraine, which has pledged to eliminate its nuclear-bomb-
grade uranium by 2012, lacks some technologies to detect
radioactive signals that can tip-off authorities to possible
threats.  
 “We currently don’t have enough mobile measuring
laboratories at our disposal to effectively analyze radioactive
sources or materials,” Ukraine’s IAEA ambassador Volodymyr
Yelchenko said. “It is about the health and security of our
people and all the guests at our event.”  
 The IAEA, which coordinates nuclear security at the
Olympics and the soccer World Cup, participated in Obama’s
nuclear security summit earlier this month along with leaders
from 46 countries.  
 The U.S. Nuclear Posture Review, the government report on
atomic-weapon strategy released on April 6 in Washington, said
“today’s most immediate danger is nuclear terrorism.” The
report pledged more funding to help the IAEA ensure nuclear
material isn’t funneled to terrorists.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        