-- Ericsson Profit Misses Estimates on Carrier Spending
-- Diana ben-Aaron
-- 2010-04-23T07:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/ericsson-profit-declines-27-missing-estimates-on-lower-carrier-spending.html

          
          
             Ericsson AB, the world’s largest
maker of wireless networks, reported a 27 percent drop in first-
quarter profit, missing analysts’ estimates, as carriers in
emerging markets spent less.  
 Net income fell to 1.26 billion kronor ($174 million) from
1.72 billion kronor a year earlier, Stockholm-based Ericsson
said today in a statement. Analysts had predicted profit of 2.02
billion kronor, the average of 21 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue dropped 9 percent to 45.1 billion kronor
missing the 48.1 billion-kronor average estimate of 35 analysts.  
 Ericsson faces tougher price competition from rivals as
carriers cut budgets. Profit in the networks business fell by
half and sales declined in 8 of 10 regions, with the biggest
drops in Africa and India. North American revenues doubled with
the integration of assets from Nortel and accounted for more
than a fifth of Ericsson’s business in the period.  
 “Obviously demand has not returned in the first quarter
and sales had sharp year-on-year declines in many important
markets such as India,” said Haakan Wranne, an analyst at
Swedbank Markets in Stockholm. “What saves it is the U.S.
doubling and Europe declined less, so you get a nice mix effect
with more sales in high-margin markets.” He has a “reduce”
rating on the shares.  
 Ericsson shares fell as much as 3.3 percent to 77.15 kronor
in Stockholm and stood at 78.65 kronor as of 09:14 a.m.  
 Job Cuts  
 In January, Chief Executive Officer Hans Vestberg said a
job-cuts program would eliminate 6,500 positions, up from 5,000
originally forecast. The company booked 2.2 billion kronor in
restructuring costs in the quarter. Rival Nokia Siemens Networks
yesterday reported an operating loss of 226 million euros ($299
million) on a 9 percent sales decline, with the Middle East and
Africa falling the most.  
 “The market conditions we saw in the second half of 2009
prevailed also in this quarter with mixed operator investment
behavior across regions and markets,” Vestberg said in the
statement. “Operators in a number of developing markets were
still cautious with their investments.”  
 Vestberg has so far avoided making predictions about sales
this year except to say that the company aims to grow faster
than the market. He’s counting on demand for data, driven by
social networking and richer information via mobile devices, to
overshadow operators’ efforts to cut costs by sharing network
towers and other measures.  
 “While the global mobile infrastructure market declined by
more than 10 percent in 2009, we believe that the fundamentals
for longer-term positive development for the industry remain
solid,” the company said in the statement.  
 China Sales  
 Ericsson is building its presence in China as the country
leads the world out of the recession and the company competes
with Chinese rivals Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp. for
European orders. Sales in China and nearby countries in the
quarter declined 15 percent from a year earlier as last year’s
results were buoyed by big initial rollouts of faster networks
in the world’s biggest mobile-phone market by subscribers.  
 Joint ventures pared 372 million kronor from profits in the
quarter. Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB, the mobile-
phone venture with Sony Corp., posted its first profit in seven
quarters after cutting costs and shipping new touchscreens. ST-
Ericsson, the semiconductor business with STMicroelectronics NV,
reported a net loss of $154 million.  
 This week, Ericsson agreed to buy a controlling share of a
joint venture with Korea’s LG Electronics Inc. from Nortel
Networks Corp. The Swedish company reported contracts worth $3.1
billion in China and India in the quarter.  
 Phone companies such as AT&T Inc. are adding wireless
capacity to keep up with data demand from smartphone and netbook
customers. Ericsson fortified its U.S. market share when it
bought Nortel’s North American wireless unit last year as the
Canadian former rival started its breakup.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hans Vestberg, chief executive officer of Ericsson AB  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Hans Vestberg, chief executive officer of Ericsson AB, sends a text message on a Sony Ericsson Xperia X10 in New York, on March 26, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Hans Vestberg, chief executive officer of Ericsson AB, sends a text message on a Sony Ericsson Xperia X10 in New York, on March 26, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
