-- Merkel Says Aid for Greece Depends on `Credible' Savings Program With IMF
-- Patrick Donahue
-- 2010-04-23T15:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/merkel-s-government-ready-to-act-to-approve-greece-aid-spokesman-says.html

          
          
             German Chancellor Angela Merkel
said the Greek government must satisfy “very stringent
conditions” for aid, signaling that she won’t be rushed into
granting financial help for Greece.  
 The Greek government must negotiate a “credible savings
program” with the European Commission and the International
Monetary Fund, Merkel said. The IMF, the commission and the
European Central Bank have to determine “whether an aid program
for Greece is needed for the euro’s stability.”  
 “Only when those two conditions are met can we talk about
specific aid, including the kind of aid and the amount,” Merkel
told reporters in Berlin today.  
 Germany, as the European Union’s biggest net contributor,
would pay about 8.4 billion euros ($11.2 billion) of the EU aid
package after Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou called for
activation of EU and IMF help of as much as 45 billion euros.
The plea comes two weeks before a regional election in Germany’s
biggest state, as polls show voters unwilling to rescue Greece.  
 Merkel’s stance was backed by Norbert Barthle and Otto
Fricke, the ruling coalition’s two senior lawmakers on
parliament’s budget committee. Greece’s plea is a “first step”
toward possible aid and shouldn’t lead to a “hectic” response,
they said in an e-mailed statement. Lawmakers will debate any
proposed aid for Greece “with thoroughness,” they said.  
 “I can’t see doing this except as an emergency measure and
under massive conditions” for Greece, Georg Nuesslein, a
lawmaker for Bavaria’s Christian Social Union party, which is
part of Merkel’s coalition, said in a phone interview. “It has
to hurt.”  
 ‘Ready to Act’  
 The government is “ready to act” to clear the way in
parliament to aid Greece, Finance Ministry spokesman Michael
Offer, said earlier today.  
 “We in Germany are pledged to solidarity and we will show
it,” Offer told reporters. “We’re doing this to stabilize the
euro, which means it’s also in our own national interest.”  
 German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told reporters
he will meet with lawmakers on April 26 to discuss how the
legislation necessary to allow aid can be introduced. Germany
will look to agree aid along a similar timeframe to that of
France, he said.  
 Schaeuble said earlier this week that the legislation
necessary could go through parliament within about 10 days, Hans
Michelbach, a government lawmaker who attended the closed-door
briefing, told reporters.  
 Greek Financing Needs  
 Greece doesn’t have any “immediate financing needs,”
Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen told reporters in
Washington today, where he is attending the IMF’s spring meeting
while Schaeuble recovers from surgery. While it is up to
lawmakers to decide whether a supplementary budget will be
needed, the Finance Ministry won’t push for it, he said.  
 “First of all, we will wait for the review by the IMF and
ECB,” Michael Meister, deputy parliamentary head of Merkel’s
party, said in comments relayed through his spokesman. “Then
we’re ready to have a transparent and quick procedure” to get
the aid through parliament.  
 Schaeuble and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner urged
Greek Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou during a
conference call yesterday to agree “quickly” with the IMF on
austerity measures for 2012 and 2013 so “credibility can return
to the markets,” Offer said.  
 “It’s important to emphasize that the ball is still
squarely in the Greek government’s court,” Offer said.  
 The Finance Ministry has said that Germany would aid Greece
through loans from the state-owned KfW development bank backed
by government guarantees. In that case, German taxpayers
wouldn’t have to bail out Greece, Offer said.  
 A group of German academics preparing a legal challenge to
the bailout will lodge their complaint once the law passes
parliament, Joachim Starbatty, one of the four academics, said
in an interview today.  
 “We will try to file the complaint as soon as possible,”
Starbatty said. “We will file as soon as the law has been put
out.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        