-- Eskom Revives Wind Power, Rail Projects After Securing World Bank Funding
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-04-23T09:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/eskom-revives-wind-power-rail-projects-after-securing-world-bank-funding.html

          
          
             Eskom Holdings Ltd., South Africa’s
state power utility, resurrected plans for its Sere wind-farm
and a rail project at its Majuba power plant after securing a
$3.75 billion loan from the World Bank.  
 The loan will allow Eskom to build the 100-megawatt wind-
farm at Sere, in South Africa’s Western Cape province, the
utility said in an advertisement published in the Business Day
newspaper today. The plant had been scheduled for completion
this month at a cost of 1.17 billion rand ($157 million), before
a lack of funding resulted in the plans being shelved, according
to an Eskom report last June.  
 The wind-farm will have 50 turbines, each generating 2
megawatts, positioned over about 25 square kilometers (16 square
miles) north of the Olifants river mouth, near the town of
Koekenaap, according to Eskom’s Web site.  
 Eskom, based in Johannesburg, delayed projects last year
because of a lack of funding for its 460 billion rand, five-year
expansion program. The utility, which supplies 95 percent of
South Africa’s power, delayed its Kusile power plant by a year
and said it may scrap plans to build a third one. More than $3
billion of the World Bank loan will be used for Eskom’s Medupi
coal-fired plant.  
 The World Bank loan also allows Eskom to resurrect plans
for a 68-kilometer rail line between Ermelo, in South Africa’s
Mpumalanga province, and Eskom’s biggest power plant, the 4,110-
megawatt Majuba station, near Volksrust, on the border with
KwaZulu-Natal, Eskom said.  
 Generating Capacity  
 Majuba is the utility’s only power plant that isn’t linked
to a specific coal mine, and receives its fuel from a variety of
sources. The rail project is expected to cost about 4.98 billion
rand, according to Eskom’s June report.  
 Since Eskom’s expansion program started in 2005, an
additional 4,454 megawatts has been commissioned, according to
the company’s Web site. The plan is to deliver an additional
16,304 megawatts of generating capacity by 2017, it said.  
 Electricity shortages shut mines across South Africa, the
world’s biggest producer of platinum, for about five days in
January 2008.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        