-- Esprit Reports a Decline in Nine-Month Sales as Spending Drops in Europe
-- Wing-Gar Cheng
-- 2010-04-23T10:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/esprit-reports-a-decline-in-nine-month-sales-as-spending-drops-in-europe.html

          
          
             Esprit Holdings Ltd., the biggest
Hong Kong-listed clothier, said fiscal nine-month sales fell 1.8
percent as households in Europe, where it makes 84 percent of
revenue, curbed spending.  
 Revenue in the nine months ended March 31 fell to HK$26.7
billion ($3.4 billion), compared with HK$27.2 billion a year ago,
the company said in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange
today. Fiscal nine-month sales in Europe fell 3.2 percent to
HK$22.4 billion, it said.  
 Consumer confidence in Europe remained weak in the first
quarter. February retail sales in the 16-nation Euro region
declined 0.6 percent from January, when they decreased 0.2
percent, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said April 8.  
 “It just depends on how quickly things in Europe recover
for them,” said Gary Pinge, who rates Esprit shares
“outperform” at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Hong Kong. “At this
point in time it looks like Europe’s being pretty skittish.”  
 Esprit shares fell 1.9 percent to close at HK$59.90 in Hong
Kong. The stock has risen 15.8 percent this year compared with a
2.9 percent decline for the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  
 Sales in Asia rose 5.8 percent to HK$3.4 billion in the
fiscal nine-month period, and gained 8.4 percent to HK$817
million in North America, the statement said.  
 China Expansion  
 Esprit is pushing expansion in China where it says margins
are similar to those in Europe. The company has bought out
partner China Resources Enterprises Ltd.’s stake in their
Chinese textile venture.  
 “The hope for the stock is that the wholesale business
recovers in the fiscal half, July to December,” said Matthew
Marsden, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Samsung Securities Co.,
who recommends buying Esprit shares. “They also need to present
to the market an executable expansion plan for China.”  
 The company’s same-store sales, which exclude the impact of
newly opened outlets, fell 2 percent during the fiscal nine
months, the statement said.  
 European consumer confidence may be improving in the second
quarter as an export-led recovery may have started to feed into
household spending. An index of consumer sentiment in the region
rose to minus 15.2 in April from a revised minus 17.3 in March,
the Brussels-based European Commission said yesterday in an
initial estimate. That’s the highest since May 2008.  
 “It’s a recovery story. People think consumer sentiment
has bottomed out and things are going to start improving and the
economic cycle has bottomed out,” Pinge said in a phone
interview. “The real question is how long it’ll take for things
to improve.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Wing-Gar Cheng in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        