-- Dollar Advances to Two-Week High Versus Yen on Signs of Economic Recovery
-- Ben Levisohn
-- 2010-04-23T20:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/euro-rises-from-lowest-in-almost-year-as-greece-says-assistance-is-needed.html

          
          
             The dollar advanced to a two-week
high against the yen as government reports showed U.S. new-home
sales rose in March by the most in almost five decades and
orders for durable goods surged.  
 The euro rose from the lowest level in almost a year versus
the dollar as Greece asked the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund to activate a bailout of as much as
45 billion euros ($60 billion). The yen fell against most of its
major counterparts as evidence of a U.S. recovery before next
week’s Federal Reserve meeting buoyed riskier assets.  
 “The Fed is most likely to be the first Group of Three
central bank to raise rates,” said Samarjit Shankar, a managing
director for the foreign-exchange group in Boston at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp., which has more than $20 trillion in assets
under administration. “Euro selling is done for now, but the
crisis of confidence in Europe in not over.”  
 The dollar increased 0.5 percent to 93.97 yen at 4:22 p.m.
in New York, from 93.49 yen yesterday, after reaching 94.32 yen,
the highest level since April 6. The euro advanced 0.6 percent
to $1.3369, from $1.3295, after touching $1.3202, the lowest
level since April 30, 2009. The euro gained 1.1 percent to
125.63 yen, from 124.28 yen.  
 While China has been coming under pressure to revalue its
currency and fuel domestic consumption to help offset falling
demand in countries such as the U.S., Group of 20 finance chiefs
meeting in Washington were unlikely to make references to
currencies in their statement, a G-20 official said on condition
of anonymity.  
 Geithner’s View  
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said earlier this
month that the talks are an “avenue for advancing U.S.
interests” on the Chinese currency.  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards were at 6.6115
per dollar, compared with 6.6045, reflecting bets that the
currency will strengthen about 3 percent. They reached 6.5930
yesterday, the strongest level since January.  
 New Zealand’s dollar increased 1.2 percent to 67.26 yen and
Brazil’s real gained 0.8 percent to 53.40 yen on speculation
investors will increase carry trades, in which they buy higher-
yielding assets with amounts borrowed in nations with low
interest rates. Japan’s benchmark of 0.1 percent has made the
yen popular for funding such transactions.  
 U.S. new-home sales increased 27 percent in March, the most
since April 1963, after a 4.1 percent decrease in the previous
month, the Commerce Department reported. The median forecast of
77 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 5.5 percent gain.  
 Durable Goods  
 Bookings for U.S. durable goods excluding transportation
items advanced 2.8 percent last month after a 1.7 percent gain
in February, the Commerce Department also reported. The median
forecast of 75 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 0.7
percent advance.  
 Total orders unexpectedly dropped 1.3 percent, depressed by
a 67 percent plunge in demand for commercial aircraft, which is
often volatile.  
 The greenback recorded its first five-day rally in three
weeks versus the yen, appreciating 2 percent on signs of U.S.
economic strength and speculation the Fed will drain cash from
the economy by selling assets.  
 CNBC, citing Fed sources that it didn’t identify, reported
that a “growing bloc” of policy makers favor sales of assets.
The central bank is due to release its statement on April 28.  
 The dollar decreased 0.2 percent against the yen on March
16, when the Fed retained its pledge to keep the target lending
rate at virtually zero for an “extended period.”  
 ‘Extended Period’  
 “The market is still looking and waiting for the ‘extended
period’ language to disappear, but it seems early for that,”
said Alan Ruskin, head of foreign-exchange strategy at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Stamford, Connecticut. “The
market is not expecting that the language needs to be changed.
You’ll see a big-time pop in the dollar if it changes in a
meaningful way.”  
 Futures trading on the CME Group Inc. exchange showed a 57
percent chance that the Fed will raise its target rate for
overnight bank lending by at least a quarter-percentage point by
its November meeting, up from 43 percent odds a week ago. The
Fed has kept the benchmark rate in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  
 Greece called today for financial assistance in an
unprecedented test of the euro’s stability and European
political cohesion. The request needs approval from all 15 other
euro-area countries including Germany, where surveys have shown
public opposition to aiding Greece.  
 “The fragmented nature of the European bond market will
call into question the euro’s credibility as a reserve
currency,” said Adam Cole, head of global currency strategy at
Royal Bank of Canada in London. “That’s why the problems of the
periphery countries are important.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Levisohn in New York at 
 blevisohn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        