-- Euro, Asian Stocks Drop on Greek Debt Concern
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-04-23T07:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/euro-asian-finance-stocks-fall-on-greece-concerns-baht-drops-after-blast.html

          
          
             The euro fell to near the lowest in
a year against the dollar and Asian stocks declined as concern
about Greece’s deficit added to pressure on Group of 20 finance
ministers meeting in Washington to help stem the crisis.  
 The euro fell to as low as $1.3202 in Tokyo, the weakest
since April 30 last year, from $1.3295 in New York yesterday.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.5 percent to 125.67 at 4:17
p.m. in Tokyo. Thailand’s benchmark SET Index plunged 1.4
percent after five grenade blasts hurt 78 people and killed
one in Bangkok, according to the government, which revised an
earlier toll of three dead. The Stoxx Europe 600 was little
changed and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures fell 0.3 percent.  
 The Group of 20 industrial and developing nations meets
today and is expected to discuss Greece amid concern the Euro
member will be forced to restructure its debt. Greek bonds and
stocks plunged yesterday, dragging down European markets, as
Moody’s Investors Service cut its rating on Greek debt one notch
to A3 and the EU revised the country’s budget deficit higher.  
 “Chances are G-20 officials will discuss Greece because it
could lead to a global financial issue,” said Takashi Kudo,
general manager of market information at NTT SmartTrade Inc. in
Tokyo. “Markets seem to be mounting pressure on Greece to get a
bailout, with the euro weakening. Risk aversion is causing the
dollar and yen to be bought.”  
 The dollar rose against 14 of its 16 major peers before
reports forecast to show improving orders for long-lasting goods
and new home sales in the U.S.  
 Emerging Markets  
 The difference in yield to own bonds in developing nations
instead of Treasuries climbed 2 basis points to 2.45 percentage
points yesterday, according to the EMBI Plus Index compiled by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. It has widened from 2.31 basis points on
April 15, the lowest since Dec. 27, 2007.  
 Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index sank 0.6 percent. Japan’s
Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 0.3 percent.  
 Financial companies were the biggest drag on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index amid sovereign debt concerns. Fitch Ratings said
yesterday Japan’s swelling debt burden may put pressure on the
nation’s sovereign AA-rating.  
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s largest bank
by market value, dropped 1.4 percent to 501 yen. Commonwealth
Bank of Australia fell 1.4 percent to A$58.20, and Woori Finance
Holdings Co. lost 0.8 percent to 17,850 won in Seoul.  
 “Uncertainty surrounding sovereign credit risk is too high,
so people are avoiding risk,” said Tomomi Yamashita, a Tokyo-
based fund manager at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which
oversees the equivalent of $3.81 billion.  
 Gold Off  
 Gold, which typically trades inversely to the U.S. currency,
declined as the dollar gained on concern about Greece. The metal
for immediate delivery fell as much as 0.3 percent to $1,138.70
an ounce before trading at $1.139.75. Silver also dropped, while
crude oil traded below $84 a barrel in New York, paring gains
for the week, as the stronger dollar curbed demand for
commodities.  
 “The big picture has still got to be a concern of what’s
going on in Europe,” said Chad Walls, head of precious metals
trading at Fortis Bank in Hong Kong. The Dollar Index, a gauge
against six counterparts, gained as much as 0.5 percent.  
 The EU yesterday lifted its estimate for Greece’s deficit
to 13.6 percent of gross domestic product. Ireland overtook the
southern European nation as the EU member with the largest
deficit, at 14.3 percent.  
 “There are a number of countries who could easily go down
the same path, and the ability for Europe to bail out all of
those economies is, I would imagine, quite limited,” said Adam
Carr, a senior economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “A
resolution is needed quite quickly. Otherwise, the euro is going
to continue to weaken.”  
 Moody’s lowered Greece’s credit rating to A3 from A2, four
grades above junk, while credit-default swaps tied to the debt
climbed to a record 644 basis points, CMA DataVision prices
showed. Greece is prepared to ask euro-region governments for a
bridge loan, a Greek government official said, as debt worth
$11.3 billion comes due next month and borrowing costs surge to
the highest since 1998.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A euro note and a U.S. one dollar bill are arranged for a photograph in London, on Feb. 24, 2010. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Anoop Singh, Asia-Pacific department director of the International Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li and Paul Gordon about Asia's economic growth and the risks of asset bubbles developing in the region.
     Singh, speaking from Washington, also discusses the need for "a number" of Asian countries to appreciate their currencies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A euro note and a U.S. one dollar bill are arranged for a photograph in London, on Feb. 24, 2010. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
