-- European Industrial Orders Rise More Than Forecast on Intermediate Goods
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-04-23T09:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/european-industrial-orders-rise-more-than-forecast-on-intermediate-goods.html

          
          
             European industrial orders rose
more than economists forecast in February, led by demand for
intermediate goods such as car engines.  
 Orders to industrial companies in the 16-nation euro area
increased 1.5 percent from January, when they decreased 1.6
percent, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today. Economists forecast an increase of 1 percent,
according to the median of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. From a year earlier, February industrial orders jumped
12.2 percent.  
 Schneider Electric SA, the world’s largest maker of circuit
breakers, is among companies projecting a revival in orders this
year as businesses invest in new equipment. Europe’s
manufacturing and services industries expanded more than
economists forecast in April, while German business confidence
reached a two-year high. The International Monetary Fund this
week raised its 2010 forecast for worldwide growth.  
 “The euro-region recovery is continuing to gain
momentum,” said Howard Archer, chief European economist at IHS
Global Insight in London. “Even so, conditions are still pretty
challenging and renewed relapses in activity remain highly
possible.”  
 The euro was higher against the dollar after the data,
trading at $1.3337 at 10:06 a.m. in London, up 0.3 percent on
the day.  
 China’s GDP  
 Gross domestic product in the euro area may rise 1 percent
this year and 1.5 percent in 2011, the Washington-based IMF
forecast on April 21. The U.S. economy may expand 3.1 percent in
2010, while China’s GDP is seen rising 10 percent.  
 In Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, business confidence
improved this month to the highest since May 2008, the Ifo
institute in Munich said today, citing a survey of 7,000
executives. Sentiment was helped by the euro’s 7 percent drop
against the dollar this year, which is making European exports
more competitive abroad.  
 Daimler AG, the Stuttgart, Germany-based maker of Mercedes-
Benz cars, said this month it aims to increase deliveries twice
as fast as 2010’s worldwide auto-market growth rate on demand
for its new models. PSA Peugeot Citroen, Europe’s second-largest
automaker, this week forecast “significant” operating income
in the first half.  
 ‘Strong Recovery’  
 “We see a strong recovery of industrial activities after
the sharp adjustment last year,” Schneider Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire said on April 21. “New economies,
led by Asia and the Middle East, confirm their robust growth
momentum.”  
 Euro-area industrial orders for intermediate goods rose 2.6
percent in February from the previous month, when they increased
4.4 percent, today’s report showed. Orders for capital goods
advanced 2.3 percent and demand for durable consumer goods
increased 2.5 percent. Orders advanced 2.5 percent excluding
heavy transport equipment such as ships and trains.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Dublin at 
 smeier@bloombert.net   
          
          


  


        