-- EU Working on Terms of Greek Financial Aid Package as Germany Test Looms
-- Jeffrey Donovan
-- 2010-04-23T15:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/european-union-says-terms-for-greek-aid-package-may-be-agreed-within-days.html

          
          
             The European Union said the terms
of Greece’s aid package may be agreed in Athens “in a matter of
days” as the German government pledged that it’s ready to
trigger the legislative process needed to release the funds.  
 EU, International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank
officials are “working on the drafting of a text for the
financial support and the conditions attached,” EU spokesman
Amadeu Altafaj told reporters in Brussels today. “This kind of
exercise indicatively takes two or three weeks, but things are
accelerating now and so it could be a matter of days.”  
 Greece today called for activation of a financial lifeline
of as much as 45 billion euros ($60 billion) in an unprecedented
test of the euro’s stability and European political cohesion.
The appeal for help follows a surge in borrowing costs to what
Prime Minister George Papandreou called unsustainable levels
that undermine efforts to cut Greece’s budget deficit.  
 The aid facility for Greece offers as much as 30 billion
euros in three-year loans from euro-area nations this year at a
below-market interest rate of around 5 percent. Another 15
billion euros are available from the IMF at even lower rates, EU
officials have said.  
 Greece is likely to need more than 45 billion euros this
year, Steven Major, global head of fixed-income research at HSBC
Holdings Plc in London, said in a note to investors. The Athens
talks are also complicated “by the need to agree on sequencing
and seniority for the new creditors.”  
 Biggest Gap  
 Greek 10-year bonds snapped an eight-day decline today
after the government request for the loans. The yield premium
investors demand to buy Greek debt over comparable German bonds
fell to 558 basis points as of 2:40 p.m. from 590 basis points
yesterday, which was the biggest gap since at least March 1998,
when Bloomberg began compiling the generic prices.  
 Greece’s request hinges on its acceptance of IMF economic-
policy conditions as well as approval from all 15 other euro-
area countries including Germany, where surveys have shown
public opposition to aiding Greece. BlackRock Inc., the world’s
largest money manager, said there may be a “backlash” from
citizens in EU nations prepared to offer a lifeline.  
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government is “ready to
act” to clear the way in parliament to aid Greece, Finance
Ministry spokesman Michael Offer said today. Germany, as the
EU’s biggest net contributor, will contribute about 8.4 billion
euros of the EU package. Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble
said this week the legislation could pass within about 10 days,
Hans Michelbach, a government lawmaker who attended the closed-
door briefing, told reporters.  
 Legal Challenge  
 Still, a group of German academics preparing a legal
challenge to the bailout will lodge their complaint once the law
passes parliament, Joachim Starbatty, one of the four academics,
said in an interview today.  
 The Finance Ministry has said Germany will aid Greece
through loans from the state-owned KfW development bank backed
by government guarantees. Taxpayers wouldn’t have to bail out
Greece, Offer said. An EU official in Brussels said today that
European governments would lend to Greece with loans from the
market, not with reserves.  
 Luxembourg’s parliament today approved aid to Greece. In
France, Finance Minister Christine Lagarde this week submitted a
measure in parliament to enable the government to trigger a 6.3
billion-euro contribution, while officials in Spain and Austria
said today that their governments are also ready to help Greece.  
 ‘Bureaucratic Obstacles’  
 ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said the aid
should be implemented as soon as possible. “We should avoid
bureaucratic obstacles,” he told reporters today in Washington,
where finance ministers and central bankers are convening for
the IMF’s spring meeting. “It shouldn’t take too long.”  
 Greek Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou said on
April 20 that euro-region allies could move swiftly to backstop
Greece with a bridge loan before the aid package is ready. He
will meet with IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn in
Washington this week.  
 While Strauss-Kahn said today that the IMF will “move
expeditiously” on the aid request, Papandreou’s biggest hurdle
may be in Greece itself. His government has already faced four
nationwide strikes by civil servants this year protesting tax
increases and spending cuts aimed at reducing the biggest
deficit by four percentage points. The country’s main civil-
servant union vowed more “resistance” today.  
 Greek Expectations  
 Ninety-one percent of Greeks expect a wave of further belt-
tightening measures from the IMF, according to a survey of 540
people by Public Issue for Skai radio in Athens today, which
showed support for the government falling to 47 percent from 55
percent in February.  
 Possible IMF conditions attached to aid include more
austerity moves if Greece fails to fully meet its fiscal goals
as well as further measures in 2011 and 2012 and structural
reforms to restore competitiveness, according to Erik F.
Nielsen, chief European economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 “Markets will remain nervous and most likely require to
see several months of track record of successful adjustment
before becoming more confident that debt sustainability is
within reach and a restructuring can be avoided,” said Marco
Annunziata, chief economist for UniCredit Group in London.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Donovan in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     George Papandreou, Greece's prime minister, speaks during a press briefing at the European Union Parliament headquarters in Brussels, on March 18, 2010. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Stovin-Bradford of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about Greece's appeal to the European Union and the International Monetary Fund to activate a financial lifeline of as much as 45 billion euros ($60 billion). (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
