-- Euro Rises From One-Year Low Versus Dollar as Greece Says Aid Is Required
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-04-23T11:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/euro-erases-decline-against-u-s-dollar-pares-drop-versus-japanese-yen.html

          
          
             The euro rose from the lowest level
in almost a year against the dollar after Greece said it needs
to accept emergency funding, easing concern about the nation’s
ability to repay short-term debt.  
 Greece’s government needs to trigger a European Union and
International Monetary Fund-led rescue of as much as 45 billion
euros ($60 billion), Prime Minister George Papandreou said today
in pre-taped comments broadcast on NET TV. The single currency
snapped its six-day slide versus the dollar, which had deepened
this week as the EU raised its estimate for the country’s
deficit and Moody’s Investors Service cut its credit rating.  
 “We’ll get temporary relief and that’s why the euro is
higher,” Neil Jones, head of European hedge-fund sales at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London, said by telephone.
“Asking for International Monetary Fund aid will be bad for the
euro in the long run.”  
 The single currency rose to $1.3306 as of 6:42 a.m. in New
York from $1.3295 yesterday, after dropping as much as 0.7
percent to $1.3202, the lowest level since April 30, 2009. It
headed for a 1.5 percent weekly decline, the most since March
19. The euro was at 124.34 yen, from 124.28 yen yesterday, after
weakening to 123.42 yen. The dollar traded at 93.42 yen, from
93.49 yen, after reaching 93.63 yen, the highest since April 14.  
 Greek 10-year bonds climbed, sending the yield down 63
basis points to 8.35 percent, the first decline in yield in nine
days. The securities slumped yesterday after the EU lifted its
estimate for Greece’s deficit to 13.6 percent of gross domestic
product and Moody’s lowered Greece’s credit rating to A3 from
A2, four grades above junk.  
 Yields Exceed Philippines  
 With national debt of almost 300 billion euros and bond
yields exceeding junk-rated nations such as the Philippines,
Greece faces a fiscal mess that threatened to spread to Spain
and Portugal, forcing the EU to set up a standby aid facility.  
 Greece’s problems are testing the credibility of the euro
as a reserve currency, said Adam Cole, head of global currency
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in London.  
 “The risk of Greece drawing on a facility is increasing,”
he said today. “The fragmented nature of the European bond
market will call into question the euro’s credibility as a
reserve currency. That’s why the problems of the periphery
countries are important.”  
 German Confidence  
 The euro was also boosted today after German business
confidence rose more than economists forecast to a two-year high
in April. The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, jumped to 101.6
from 98.2 in March. That’s the highest reading since May 2008.
Economists expected a gain to 98.7, according to the median of
37 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The dollar traded close to a one-week high versus the yen
before U.S. reports that are forecast to show improving orders
for long-lasting goods and new home sales.  
 Durable goods orders probably rose for a fourth month in
March and new home sales broke a stretch of declines that
started in November, Bloomberg News surveys of economists showed
before the Commerce Department reports the data today.  
 “Renewed optimism about the strength of the U.S. economy
is adding to the dollar’s appeal,” said Mike Jones, a currency
strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. The “data
is all about quality, not quantity.”  
 Canadian, Australian Dollars  
 Canada’s dollar dropped for a third day as a government
report showed the annual inflation rate unexpectedly slowed to
1.4 percent from 1.6 percent in the previous month, which may
discourage the Bank of Canada from raising borrowing costs as
early as June.  
 “The number was softer than expected,’’ said Camilla
Sutton, director of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia in
Toronto.  
 The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, declined 0.3 percent to
C$1.0035 per U.S. dollar at 7:12 a.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0004
yesterday. It was at parity with the U.S. dollar on April 6 for
the first time since July 2008.  
 The Australian dollar fell as central bank Governor Glenn
Stevens today said interest rates are “pretty close to
average,” damping expectations he will extend the nation’s most
aggressive tightening cycle since 2000.  
 His comments “are putting pressure on the Aussie,” a team
of Commerzbank AG analysts led by Ulrich Leuchtmann in Frankfurt
wrote in an investor note today.  
 Australia’s currency fell 0.7 percent to 92.06 U.S. cents.
It dropped 0.8 percent to 86.03 yen. The so-called Aussie
dropped against all 16 major counterparts after Stevens said
policy makers are focused on ensuring the nation’s economic
rebound is durable.  
 Pound Falls  
 Britain’s pound fell against the euro after the U.K.
economy grew half the pace economists predicted in the first
three months of this year. The Office for National Statistics
said today gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent in the first
quarter, compared with the median estimate of 0.4 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of 32 economists.  
 “It’s difficult to bet for a rally in the pound when
there’s a lot of uncertainty in terms of growth and fiscal
outlook,” said Chiara Cremonesi, a currency and fixed-income
strategist at Unicredit SpA in London.  
 The pound weakened to 86.57 pence per euro from 86.45 pence
per euro yesterday.  
 G-20 finance chiefs including U.S. Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner and European Central Bank President Jean-
Claude Trichet meet in Washington today and may intensify
pressure on China to revalue the yuan at today’s talks, which
Geithner called an “avenue for advancing U.S. interests” on
the Chinese currency.  
 Yuan Forwards  
 Central bankers in India and Brazil this week backed a
stronger yuan as did the International Monetary Fund and EU
governments. Speculation the G-20 will urge China to revalue its
currency boosted yuan non-deliverable forwards to a three-month
high yesterday.  
 “Political pressure on China to resume yuan appreciation
will likely remain in place at the G-20 meeting,” said
Sebastien Barbe, head of emerging market research at Credit
Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “This should keep the dollar-yuan
NDF discount wide.”  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards were little changed
at 6.6121 yuan per dollar after reaching 6.5930 yesterday, the
highest level since Jan. 11, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The contracts reflect bets the currency will
strengthen 3.2 percent from the spot rate of 6.8274.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        