-- European Stocks Retreat for Second Week on Budget Deficit, Greek Concerns
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-04-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/european-stocks-retreat-for-second-week-on-budget-deficit-greek-concerns.html

          
          
             European stocks fell for a second
week as the euro area’s budget deficit widened to more than
double the European Union’s 3 percent limit in 2009, led by
Greece and Ireland, offsetting better-than-expected results from
companies including Ericsson AB and Volvo AB.  
 Greek banks sank as Moody’s Investors Service cut Greece’s
sovereign rating. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc rose 16
percent as BofA-Merrill Lynch Global Research added the stock to
its “most preferred” list and it may consider a share buyback.
Nokia Oyj sank 14 percent as it cut its margin forecast.  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.2 percent to 267.42
this week, a second weekly loss. The VStoxx Index, which gauges
the cost of using options to protect against declines in the Dow
Jones Euro Stoxx 50 Index, rose to 24.7953 on April 22, reaching
the highest level in almost two months.  
 “Equity markets were very volatile as concerns over Greece
swung sentiment and as, eventually, markets forced the Greek
government’s hand,” said Neil Dwane, who helps oversee about
$80 billion as chief investment officer at Allianz Global
Investors’ RCM unit in Frankfurt. “Elsewhere many corporate
results were strong. Valuations in Europe remain quite
attractive relative to global areas but the euro and Greece do
overlay sentiment.”  
 National benchmark indexes fell in 10 out of the 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX rose 1.3 percent and France’s
CAC 40 slid 0.9 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 retreated 0.4
percent. Greece’s ASE dropped 6.9 percent.  
 Budget deficit  
 The total budget gap for the 16-nation euro region widened
to 6.3 percent of gross domestic product last year, the biggest
since the introduction of the euro in 1999, from 2 percent in
2008, the European Union’s Luxembourg-based statistics office
said on April 22. At 14.3 percent of GDP, Ireland had the
largest shortfall, while Greece’s deficit was 13.6 percent,
higher than the government’s April 7 forecast of 12.9 percent.  
 The following day Greece called for activation of a
financial lifeline of as much as 45 billion euros ($60 billion)
this year in an unprecedented test of the euro’s stability and
European political cohesion. The appeal for help from the
European Union and International Monetary Fund follows a surge
in borrowing costs to what Greek Prime Minister George
Papandreou called unsustainable levels that undermine efforts to
cut a budget deficit of more than four times the EU limit.  
 Greek Banks  
 National Bank of Greece SA declined 13 percent to 11.52
euros. EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA lost 11 percent to 5.63 euros.
Moody’s lowered Greece’s rating to A3 from A2, four grades above
junk, and put a negative outlook on Greek debt. The ratings
company also placed the long-term deposit and debt ratings of
six Greek banks on review for possible downgrade.  
 Credit Suisse Group AG dropped 7 percent to 51.50 francs as
quarterly results at Switzerland’s second-biggest bank missed a
gain in debt trading that helped lift earnings at rivals.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland gained 16 percent to 55.80 pence
after being added to the “most preferred” stocks among
European banks at BofA-Merrill Lynch. Barclays Capital upgraded
the stock to “overweight” from “equal weight.”  
 Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, may use surplus
capital to buy back part of the taxpayer’s holding, said two
people with knowledge of the situation.  
 Deutsche Postbank AG climbed 7.1 percent to 26.40 euros on
speculation Deutsche Bank AG is preparing a full takeover for
the lender it partially owns. Natixis Securities said in a note
“the takeover of Deutsche Postbank is only a matter of time”
as the “strategic project makes sense and will create value.”  
 Raiffeisen International Bank  
 Raiffeisen International Bank Holding AG rose 6.6 percent
to 32.28 euros as the Austrian lender that operates in 17 former
communist countries said it doesn’t expect a capital increase
following a merger with majority shareholder Raiffeisen
Zentralbank Oesterreich AG.  
 Nokia Oyj dropped 14 percent to 9.49 euros after posting a
lower-than-estimated quarterly net income. The world’s biggest
maker of mobile phones also cut its adjusted margin target for
the handset unit to between 11 and 13 percent this year, from 12
to 14 percent earlier. The second-quarter margin could be as low
as 9 percent, it said.  
 Oriflame Cosmetics SA retreated 14 percent to 411 kronor.
The Luxembourg-based cosmetics maker said first-quarter pretax
profit increased to 43.7 million euros from 27.5 million euros,
falling short of the 44.1 million euros analysts had estimated.  
 Nexans SA sank 9.9 percent to 58.89 euros after reporting a
drop in first-quarter sales and predicting a decline in first-
half operating margin.  
 Ericsson, Volvo  
 Ericsson climbed 14 percent to 88 kronor after reporting
first-quarter North American revenue doubled. First-quarter net
income at the world’s largest maker of wireless networks slid to
1.26 billion kronor ($180 million) from 1.72 billion kronor a
year earlier, missing analyst estimates.  
 Volvo rose 11 percent to 90 kronor as first-quarter net
income beat expectations. Trucks and construction equipment, the
two largest divisions that accounted for 81 percent of Volvo’s
revenue, both returned to an operating profit.  
 Taylor Wimpey Plc, the homebuilder that gets 32 of revenue
from North America, soared 15 percent to 43.99 pence. Purchases
of new homes in the U.S. surged in March by the most in almost
five decades as buyers rushed to qualify for a government tax
credit and the weather turned milder.  
 Arkema SA jumped 13 percent to 32.925 euros. Citigroup Inc.
upgraded its recommendation for the French chemicals maker to
“hold.” The brokerage said it expects Arkema “to have had a
strong first quarter, given improved economic demand, boosted by
restocking.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        