-- Euro Falls Toward Lowest in Almost Year Versus Dollar on Greek Budget Gap
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-04-23T07:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/euro-falls-toward-lowest-in-almost-year-versus-dollar-on-greek-budget-gap.html

          
          
             The euro dropped to the lowest
level in almost a year against the dollar as escalating concern
about Greece’s finances added to pressure on Group of 20 leaders
to stem the crisis.  
 The euro slid versus 12 of its 16 major counterparts as
policy makers from G-20 nations meet in Washington today.
Europe’s currency headed for a third weekly drop against the yen
after the European Union raised its estimate for Greece’s
deficit and Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s debt
rating. The dollar traded close to a one-week high versus the
yen before U.S. reports forecast to show improving orders for
long-lasting goods and new home sales.  
 “Chances are G-20 officials will discuss Greece because it
could lead to a global financial issue,” said Takashi Kudo,
general manager of market information at NTT SmartTrade Inc., a
unit of Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp., in Tokyo. “Markets
seem to be mounting pressure on Greece to get a bailout, with
the euro weakening. Risk aversion is causing the dollar and yen
to be bought.”  
 The euro fell to $1.3260 at 8:42 a.m. in London from
$1.3295 in New York yesterday, and touched $1.3202, the lowest
level since April 30, 2009. The 16-nation currency declined to
123.88 yen from 124.28 yen, heading for a 0.6 percent drop this
week. The dollar traded at 93.41 yen from 93.49 yen, after
reaching 93.63 yen, the highest since April 14.  
 The yen typically strengthens in times of financial turmoil
as Japan’s trade surplus frees the nation from dependence on
overseas capital. The dollar benefits as the world’s main
reserve currency.  
 G-20 Meeting  
 The EU lifted its estimate for Greece’s deficit to 13.6
percent of gross domestic product, while Ireland overtook the
southern European nation as the EU member with the largest
deficit, at 14.3 percent.  
 “There are a number of countries who could easily go down
the same path, and the ability for Europe to bail out all of
those economies is, I would imagine, quite limited,” said Adam
Carr, a senior economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “A
resolution is needed quite quickly. Otherwise, the euro is going
to continue to weaken.”  
 Moody’s lowered Greece’s credit rating to A3 from A2, four
grades above junk, while credit-default swaps tied to the debt
climbed to a record 644 basis points. Greece is prepared to ask
euro-region governments for a bridge loan, a Greek government
official said, as debt worth $11.3 billion comes due next month
and borrowing costs surge to the highest since 1998.  
 G-20 finance chiefs including U.S. Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner and European Central Bank President Jean-
Claude Trichet may also intensify pressure on China to revalue
the yuan at today’s talks, which Geithner called an “avenue for
advancing U.S. interests” on the Chinese currency.  
 Central Bankers  
 Central bankers in India and Brazil this week backed a
stronger yuan as did the International Monetary Fund and EU
governments. Speculation the G-20 will urge China to revalue its
currency boosted yuan non-deliverable forwards to a three-month
high yesterday.  
 “Political pressure on China to resume yuan appreciation
will likely remain in place at the G-20 meeting,” said
Sebastien Barbe, head of emerging market research at Credit
Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “This should keep the dollar-yuan
NDF discount wide.”  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards were at 6.6132 yuan
per dollar after reaching 6.5930 yesterday, the strongest level
since Jan. 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
contracts reflect bets the currency will appreciate 3.1 percent
from the spot rate of 6.8276.  
 The dollar rose to a seven-week high versus the Swiss franc
on speculation signs of U.S. growth will increase.  
 ‘Renewed Optimism’  
 Durable goods orders rose for a fourth month in March and
new home sales broke a stretch of declines that started in
November, Bloomberg News surveys of economists showed before the
Commerce Department reports the data today.  
 “Renewed optimism about the strength of the U.S. economy
is adding to the dollar’s appeal,” said Mike Jones, a currency
strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington.
“Tonight’s data is all about quality, not quantity, with U.S.
durable goods orders due for release.”  
 The U.S. currency climbed to 1.0801 Swiss francs from
1.0781, after advancing to 1.0850 francs, the strongest since
March 2.  
 ‘Close to Average’  
 The Australian dollar fell as central bank Governor Glenn
Stevens today said interest rates are “pretty close to
average,” damping expectations he will extend the nation’s most
aggressive tightening cycle since 2000.  
 “There was one line in there that says interest rates are
now pretty close to average, and that has seen the Australian
dollar come off,” said Robert Rennie, head of currency research
in Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp. “What is important to the
market in the short term is what’s the outlook for interest
rates.”  
 The so-called Aussie dropped against all 16 major
counterparts after Stevens said policy makers are focused on
ensuring the nation’s economic rebound is durable.  
 Australia’s currency fell 0.8 percent to 92.02 U.S. cents.
It dropped 0.9 percent to 85.95 yen.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Euro notes and U.S. dollar bills are arranged for a photograph in London, on Feb. 24, 2010. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A file photo of euro notes and U.S. dollar bills arranged in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
