-- Europeans Press U.S., Japan to Voice Support for Greece at G-7, Kan Says
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-04-23T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/europeans-press-u-s-japan-to-voice-support-for-greece-at-g-7-kan-says.html

          
          
             Greece’s fiscal woes dominated a
Group of Seven meeting of finance chiefs, with Europe calling on
America and Japan to voice support for the nation, according to
Japanese Finance Minister Naoto Kan.  
 “Much of the time was devoted to discussing the situation
in Greece,” Kan told reporters late on April 22 after G-7
finance ministers and central bankers met in Washington.
“European policy makers indicated that U.S. and Japanese
support for Greece would be appreciated,” he said, adding that
they weren’t referring to financial support.  
 The Greek discussion outweighed China’s yuan, which didn’t
come up at the G-7 session, according to Kan. The talks may
indicate the level of concern among European officials about
Greece’s ability to avoid a collapse in investor confidence in
its creditworthiness after the nation’s bonds tumbled this week.  
 “It was all about Greece before and after I spoke,” said
Kan, who added that he outlined Japan’s fiscal policy to his
counterparts. Japan, the world’s biggest public debtor, aims to
publish a long-term fiscal strategy by June to help shore up
confidence in its own debt sustainability.  
 Greece is prepared to ask euro-region governments for a
bridge loan as $11.3 billion in bonds come due next month and
after borrowing costs surge to the highest level since 1998, a
Greek government official said.  
 Greek Bonds  
 Yields on Greek 10-year bonds jumped 81 basis points to
8.97 percent April 22 as investors waited for Greece to hammer
out terms of a 45 billion-euro ($60 billion) aid package with
the European Union and International Monetary Fund. With talks
potentially lasting three weeks, Greece faces a risk that the
rescue won’t be agreed upon by the May 19 redemption.  
 G-7 officials were meeting a day ahead of a gathering of
the Group of 20, which has displaced the G-7 as the main forum
for international economic talks among the world’s biggest
economies.  
 The G-7, which includes Japan, the U.S., U.K., France,
Italy, Germany and Canada, has also stopped issuing regular
communiqués. Some members of the group said the G-7 should voice
support for Greece, Kan told reporters.  
 U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, asked about
Greece at a March 25 congressional hearing, said at the time he
was “confident” that European leaders would find a way to help
Greece out of its “economic crisis.” Europe’s governments
“have the capacity to figure out a solution,” he said.  
 The G-20, which meets April 23, may be the main forum for
discussing China’s currency policy after Geithner this month
flagged the forum as an opportunity to address the matter.
China’s government has kept the yuan pegged to the dollar since
July 2008 to help its exporters, spurring protests by U.S.
lawmakers that it’s giving an unfair subsidy to its exporters.  
 Kan told reporters earlier that pressuring China on the
currency issue could spur a “backlash” from the nation, which
is why some G-20 countries may be hesitant to single out China
at formal meetings.  
 Japanese officials have warned that their nation cannot be
complacent about the Greek crisis, which has spurred declines in
the bonds of euro region members including Spain and Portugal,
while the contagion has yet to hit Japan’s government debt.  
 “Greece’s situation isn’t entirely unrelated to Japan’s,”
Yoshito Sengoku, Japan’s national strategy minister, said at an
April 2 news conference in Tokyo. “Japan’s situation right now
is not that good. There hasn’t been a sense of crisis about this,
including from ourselves.”  
 Bank of Japan board member Seiji Nakamura said in February
that Greece’s example shouldn’t be regarded as “a burning house
on the other side of the river.”  
 Greek Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou, who is
going to Washington for the spring meetings of the IMF and World
Bank, said April 20 that euro-region allies would be able to
move swiftly to backstop Greece with a bridge loan.
Papaconstantinou will meet with IMF Managing Director Dominique
Strauss-Kahn in Washington.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Naoto Kan, Japan's finance minister  
                       
                         
                           Melissa Golden/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Naoto Kan, Japan's finance minister, arrives at the Canadian embassy for a dinner with the finance ministers and central bankers of the Group of Seven countries in Washington, D.C., on April 22, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Naoto Kan, Japan's finance minister, arrives at the Canadian embassy for a dinner with the finance ministers and central bankers of the Group of Seven countries in Washington, D.C., on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Melissa Golden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
