-- UBS Tax Shelter Case Brings 10-Month Sentence for Ex-Watch Company Owner
-- Mort Lucoff
-- 2010-04-23T20:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/ex-watch-company-owner-barouh-is-sentenced-to-10-months-in-ubs-tax-case.html

          
          
             Jack Barouh, a former watchmaker
and ex-UBS AG client, was sentenced to 10 months in prison, the
longest term given any customer of the bank since the U.S. began
a crackdown on offshore tax evasion.  
 Barouh, 65, admitted in February that he skimmed money from
his company and didn’t report income on $10 million in assets,
including $6 million in offshore accounts at UBS. Barouh’s
lawyer asked for a sentence of a year’s home detention, saying
Barouh is the son of Holocaust survivors who taught him to
“hide and hoard” and compulsively “want to establish a secret
nest egg.” Prosecutors today asked for a 15-month prison term.  
 U.S. District Judge Adalberto Jordan granted leniency,
saying Barouh cooperated with prosecutors probing offshore tax
evasion and tried to voluntarily disclose his account to the
Internal Revenue Service. Still, the judge said, Barouh deserved
prison for his conduct.  
 “He did this for many years, hiding tens of millions of
dollars,” Jordan said in federal court in Miami.  
 Barouh is among 11 UBS clients who pleaded guilty to tax
crimes since the Zurich-based bank agreed in February 2009 to
pay $780 million to avoid prosecution for helping wealthy
Americans evade taxes. Since then, six other clients have been
sentenced. Four got probation or home detention, one got two
months in prison and another was sentenced to one month.  
 Barouh, of Golden Beach, Florida, is the former owner of
Tempus International Corp., a manufacturer and distributor of
luxury watches. He sold the company in 2004 to Fossil Inc. for
about $50 million.  
 ‘Ashamed and Embarassed’  
 “I am ashamed and embarrassed by my conduct,” Barouh told
the judge.  
 Barouh set up so-called nominee accounts through Hong Kong,
British Virgin Island and Panamanian companies, including one
named Domilou SA, according to court papers. He also had
accounts at banks other than UBS and began skimming money from
his watch businesses in 1976 and putting the proceeds in his
Domilou account, he admitted in pleading guilty.  
 Barouh turned over the names of two Swiss bank managers and
a Swiss lawyer as part of his cooperation with prosecutors,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Neiman said today.  
 Offshore Accounts  
 The two money managers helped Barouh manage the offshore
accounts, according to court papers. One, identified as Swiss
money manager No. 1, misappropriated more than $5 million from
the Domilou account, he admitted.  
 The Swiss lawyer, identified as Swiss attorney No. 1,
negotiated a settlement with the first money manager. The lawyer
used that settlement, as well as funds from Domilou, to set up a
British Virgin Island corporation called Similen Investments
Ltd. for Barouh, according to court papers.  
 The attorney and Swiss money manager No. 2 were directors
of the company, according to court papers.  
 Starting in 2007, Barouh considered repatriating his
accounts to the U.S., according to court papers. The
unidentified Swiss attorney instead persuaded him to transfer
his assets to a Hong Kong nominee company named Amery
Investments Ltd.  
 The case is U.S. v. Barouh, 10-cr-20034, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Mort Lucoff in Miami at  morsybil@bellsouth.net .  
          
          


  


        