-- FIFA's President Blatter Flies to Qatar to Meet With Asian Challenger
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-04-23T12:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/fifa-s-president-blatter-flies-to-qatar-to-meet-with-asian-challenger.html

          
          
             FIFA President Sepp Blatter is
flying to Qatar today to hold talks with Asian soccer’s top
official in an effort to quell a challenge to his post.  
 Blatter will meet with Asian Football Confederation
President Mohamed Bin Hammam to try to improve relations, Walter
Gagg, an official in the FIFA president’s executive office, said
in an interview.  
 “The president is a man who doesn’t like to have
problems,” Gagg said after Blatter spoke in his last pre-World
Cup 2010 press conference in Zurich. “I don’t think he’ll be
challenged in the election.”  
 Blatter had to scrap plans to meet with Bin Hammam last
week because of the disruption to air travel caused by ash from
a volcano in Iceland. He was named head of FIFA in 1998 and will
have served three terms by the time he’s up for re-election in
June 2011.  
 In February, the 74-year-old warned he would take on any
opponent after Bin Hammam said the time had come for someone
from Asia to hold soccer’s highest post for the first time.  
 “I have not now finished my vision,” Blatter, who was re-
elected unopposed in 2007, said on Feb. 19.  
 It’s unclear whether Bin Hammam, who was narrowly re-
elected to head the sport’s Asian region last year, would be
among the candidates vying to replace him. At a news conference
in Seoul on Feb. 16 he said there were two candidates from his
continent.  
 “I believe that the time has come for an Asian to come
forward for this position,” he said. “And there is more than
one potential candidate available from Asia to lead world
football. When we have that person, I hope the whole of Asia
will unite behind him.”  
 Blatter was boosted on March 19 when FIFA’s executive
committee rejected a proposal by Bin Hammam to cap presidential
terms to a maximum of two four-year cycles.  
 Any changes to the rules wouldn’t have been implemented
before 2011, meaning Blatter couldn’t be blocked from standing.  
 This summer’s World Cup in South Africa may yet determine
the president’s fate. Blatter fought against opponents within
his organization to take the world’s most-watched sports event
to Africa for the first time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at FIFA House in Zurich via the London newsroom
on   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        