-- Foursquare to Decide on Sale in Weeks, CEO Says
-- Tim Mullaney
-- 2010-04-23T20:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/foursquare-will-decide-between-sale-financing-in-weeks-ceo-crowley-says.html

          
          
             Foursquare Labs Inc., the location-
based Web service that reached 1 million users this week, will
decide whether to sell itself or raise more venture capital
within weeks, Chief Executive Officer Dennis Crowley said.  
 The New York-based startup is debating the right way to
finance its growth, Crowley, 33, said in an interview today. He
declined to identify any suitors or comment on how much the
company might be worth.  
 “We’ll do whatever is best for the product,” Crowley said.
“We’ll have it resolved in a couple of weeks. I want to end the
distractions and get back to work.”  
 Foursquare, which has grown from 170,000 users at the end
of last year, would help an acquirer expand in the wireless
local-advertising market. Services like Foursquare, which
deliver coupons and offers to users based on where their phones
say they are, may account for as much as $4.1 billion in yearly
advertising spending by 2015, said Kip Cassino, research
director at consulting firm Borrell Associates in Williamsburg,
Virginia.  
 Yahoo! Inc. was considering buying Foursquare for about
$100 million, Business Insider reported this month. The Silicon
Valley blog TechCrunch reported yesterday that Microsoft Corp.
and Facebook Inc. are or have been in talks with the company.  
 Foursquare has also held talks with several venture-capital
firms, TechCrunch reported March 25. Proposed valuations ranged
as high as $80 million, the blog reported.  
 Checking In  
 Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, and Jonathan Thaw,
a spokesman for Facebook, said their companies don’t comment on
rumor or speculation. Frank Shaw, a spokesman for Microsoft,
also declined to comment.  
 Crowley said many of the reports aren’t accurate, and that
Foursquare hadn’t been a source for them.  
 “People are just making stuff up at this point,” he said
today. “We’re just as surprised as anyone else.”  
 Foursquare, founded last year, lets users “check in” using
mobile phones when they visit a specific place or business,
earning rewards and letting advertisers target them for special
offers. Users can also see who else has checked in at locations
near them, review businesses and get suggestions on things to do
near where they are.  
 New Features  
 The 20-employee company offers free advertising, for now,
to small shops and restaurants, while generating revenue from
selling ads to chain businesses, Crowley said. Ultimately, it
plans to offer targeted advertising for local businesses, by
crunching data about where users check in to guess what kinds of
offers they want to see, he said.  
 The company is rolling out new features, including a self-
service platform to let small businesses create Foursquare ads,
and may begin services to introduce users to each other, Crowley
said. The number of users is growing 50 percent a month and is
on pace to reach 3 million by the end of the summer, he said.  
 “I’m like, ‘That’s impossible,’ and Harry’s like, ‘That’s
the curve, dude,’” Crowley said, referring to Foursquare lead
engineer Harry Heymann. “When you get to a million people you
can start introducing people to other people. You can do a lot
of interesting things.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Mullaney in New York at 
 tmullaney1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on breaking media news in today's edition of Media Monday. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
