-- G-20 Seeks Credible Plans to Cut Stimulus, Curb Debt
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-04-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/g-20-calls-for-credible-plans-to-exit-stimulus-as-recovery-strengthens.html

          
          
             Group of 20 finance chiefs called
for “credible” plans to withdraw economic stimulus as the
recovery strengthens and Greece’s attempt to avert default
highlights the risks posed by mounting government debt.  
 “The global recovery has progressed better than previously
anticipated,” the group’s finance ministers and central bankers
said in a statement after meeting in Washington yesterday. “We
should all elaborate credible exit strategies from extraordinary
macroeconomic and financial support measures.”  
 Underscoring the need to persuade investors that order will
be restored to public finances was Greece’s appeal yesterday for
emergency loans after a surge in its borrowing costs. The
International Monetary Fund this week called rising government
debt one of the biggest threats to the world economy.  
 “I don’t think there’s complacency among policy makers,
but the question is whether they’re preparing for the worst-case
scenario,” said Harvard Professor Kenneth Rogoff, a former IMF
chief economist and co-author of a recent study of financial
crises, in an interview. “They seem to be hoping for the
best.”  
 The G-20 asked the IMF to carry out more research on how
banks can cover the cost of future bailouts, papering over a
split over whether a tax on risk-taking should be imposed. It
reiterated a plan to develop rules by the end of this year to
raise the quantity and quality of bank capital with the
intention of implementing them before 2013.  
 Exchange Rates  
 While the statement made no specific comment on exchange
rates and officials said they weren’t discussed, U.S. Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner maintained pressure on China to
let its yuan appreciate.  
 “China will decide it’s in their interest,” he told
reporters. “It’s obviously important to the world.”  
 Greece’s request for as much as 45 billion euros ($60
billion) in international aid this year set the backdrop for the
G-20’s talks. It came as investors demand almost triple what
they charge Germany for the country’s 10-year bonds and a day
after the European Union estimated its budget deficit reached
13.6 percent of gross domestic product last year and Moody’s
Investors Service cut its credit rating.  
 “We did discuss the situation in Greece,” Canadian
Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said. “It is, of course, a source
of concern for us.”  
 Rising Debt  
 Greece’s fiscal turmoil may serve as a warning to many
governments that they will soon need to pare the budget deficits
swelled by lower tax revenue and spending during the crisis. The
IMF estimates the debt of advanced nations will reach 115
percent of GDP by 2014, up from 80 percent before the financial
crisis and close to the postwar record.  
 “We need to prevent sovereign risk from spreading to other
nations,” Hiroshi Ogushi, Japan’s parliamentary secretary for
finance, said in an interview in Washington.  
 The G-20 said some governments may have to maintain
spending measures until the “recovery is firmly driven by the
private sector and becomes more entrenched.” Nations that can
expand domestic demand should do so to help compensate for those
that need to boost savings, the statement said without naming
countries.  
 The officials met amid signs recoveries are picking up
speed. Data released yesterday showed sales of new U.S. homes
surged the most in 47 years in March and euro-area industrial
orders rose more than forecast in February.  
 Equities  
 Stocks from the U.S. to Japan to Germany are all up at
least 3.5 percent so far this year.  
 American Express Co., the biggest U.S. credit-card issuer
by purchases, reported first quarter profit doubled as consumers
boosted spending. German sporting-goods maker Adidas AG raised
its full-year earnings forecast. Xerox Corp., the largest maker
of high-speed color printers, said its second-quarter profit
forecast beat analysts’ estimates.  
 Paris-based L’Oreal SA, the world’s largest cosmetics
maker, this week said sales growth accelerated to the fastest
pace in almost three years as shoppers spent more on luxury
perfume and distributors stopped cutting inventories.  
 Still, the Greek crisis threatens to “delay confidence
coming back to the world economy” so the euro area must “get
on” with assisting the country, U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer Alistair Darling said in Washington.  
 Aid Package  
 EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said
a program could be agreed upon by early May. European Central
Bank Governing Council members Ewald Nowotny and Christian Noyer
rejected speculation that Greece’s troubles will spread to other
high-deficit countries such as Portugal and Spain.  
 Having united to inject $5 trillion in fiscal stimulus to
combat the slump, the G-20 is now struggling to find common
ground over how best to regulate banks. Divides opened before
the talks about whether to tax banks to pay for future rescues
and how to rewrite capital rules.  
 The IMF, which this week recommended taxing financial
institutions’ non-deposit liabilities and the sum of profit and
compensation, will now study how to account for differing
“circumstances.” While the proposal has won support from the
U.S. and Europe, some governments led by Canada questioned the
need for it given none of their banks collapsed and a levy may
sap them of resources.  
 “There were lots of viewpoints,” French Finance Minister
Christine Lagarde told Bloomberg Television. “We need to
continue the discussion.”  
 Industry’s Response  
 Bowing to criticism from bank groups concerned their
members are being punished, the G-20 acknowledged a need to
“take into account the cumulative impact of” regulatory
changes even as it promised “multi-faceted” reform.  
 Meeting the year-end deadline for outlining new rules
“would reduce the ability of the industry to provide capital to
business and consumers,” Tim Ryan, chief executive officer of
the Global Financial Markets Association, said in a statement.
“We are also concerned at proposals to levy punitive taxes.”  
 The G-20 also fleshed out how it will check whether members
are working to ensure the next expansion is more balanced and
less reliant on extremes such as U.S. consumer spending or
Chinese savings. Tasked with overseeing that process, the IMF
was told to prepare lists of policies authorities should be
pursuing and when to enact them.  
 China entered the meeting facing demands from the U.S.,
euro-area, Brazil and India to allow the yuan to gain after
keeping it about 6.83 to the dollar for almost two years to aid
exporters. The G-20 noted in its statement that sustainable
growth should be “determined primarily by competitive market
forces.”  
 The G-20 accounts for about 85 percent of global GDP. Its
members are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France,
Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Mexico,
Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Turkey, the U.S., U.K. and
EU. The group’s finance ministers next meet June 4-5 in Busan,
South Korea, before leaders convene later that month in Toronto.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        