-- G-20 Says `Unprecedented' Policy Effort Aiding Recovery: Text of Statement
-- Washington newsroom +1-202-624-1820. Editor: Brendan Murray
-- 2010-04-23T20:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/g-20-says-unprecedented-policy-effort-aiding-recovery-text-of-statement.html

          
          
             The following is a reformatted
version of a statement today from finance ministers and central
bankers from the Group of 20 industrial and developing nations,
after a meeting today in Washington.  
 1. We, the G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank
Governors, met in Washington D.C. to ensure the global economic
recovery and the transition to a strong, sustainable and
balanced growth as well as our agendas for the financial
regulatory reform and international financial institutions
remain on track.  
 2. The global recovery has progressed better than
previously anticipated largely due to the G20’s unprecedented
and concerted policy effort. However, it is proceeding at
different speeds within and across regions, and unemployment is
still high in many economies. We recognize that in such
circumstances different policy responses are required. In
economies where growth is still highly dependent on policy
support and consistent with sustainable public finances, it
should be maintained until the recovery is firmly driven by the
private sector and becomes more entrenched. Some countries are
already exiting. We should all elaborate credible exit
strategies from extraordinary macroeconomic and financial
support measures that are tailored to individual country
circumstances while taking into account any spillovers. We
emphasized the necessity to pursue well coordinated economic
policies that are consistent with sound public finances; price
stability; stable, efficient and resilient financial systems;
employment creation; and poverty reduction. Countries who have
the capacity should expand domestic sources of growth. This
would help cushion a decline in demand from countries that
should boost savings and reduce fiscal deficits.  
 3. Our Framework for Strong, Sustainable and Balanced
Growth for the global economy is a key mechanism through which
we will continue to work together to address the challenges
associated with achieving a durable recovery and our shared
objectives. In accordance with our timetable set out in St
Andrews, we have conducted, with support from the IMF and World
Bank, the initial phase of our cooperative and consultative
mutual assessment process for the Framework by sharing our
national and regional policy frameworks, programs and
projections, assessing their collective consistency with our
objectives, and producing a forward-looking assessment of global
economic prospects. We further provided guidance to the IMF, and
other international organizations, to assist us in assessing
collective implications of national policies that could improve
our global economic prospects and bring us closer to our shared
objectives. For this purpose, we have agreed on principles to
direct the development of alternative policy scenarios and have
further elaborated the objectives of strong, sustainable and
balanced growth as outlined in the Annex to this Communiqué.
Drawing on these inputs we will deliver an initial set of policy
options for consideration by our Leaders at the June 2010
Summit.  
 4. Recognizing the increasingly integrated nature of the
financial regulatory reform issues, we reaffirmed our strong
commitment to fully implement our reform agenda on the timelines
agreed by Leaders in London and Pittsburgh. Good progress is
being made and, to maintain the momentum, we:  
 ?     reaffirmed our reform is multi-faceted but at its core
must be stronger capital standards, complemented by clear
incentives to mitigate excessive risk-taking practices. We
recommitted to developing by end-2010 internationally agreed
rules to improve both the quantity and quality of bank capital
and to discourage excessive leverage. These rules will be phased
in as financial conditions improve and economic recovery is
assured, with the aim of implementation by end-2012.
Implementation of these new rules should be complemented by
strong supervision. We stressed the importance of the
quantitative and macroeconomic impact studies underway and look
forward to an update on their progress by the FSB for our June
meeting.  
 ?     agreed to closely review the progress of and provide
guidance and strong support for the work of the FSB, BCBS and
IMF. We support the work of the FSB to develop prudential
standards, market infrastructures to contain the propagation of
shocks and resolution tools and frameworks for systemically
important financial institutions and look forward to a progress
report for our meeting in June 2010. We look forward to
receiving the IMF’s final report on the range of options that
countries have adopted or are considering as to how the
financial sector could make a fair and substantial contribution
towards paying for any burdens associated with government
interventions to repair the banking system. We call on the IMF
for further work on options to ensure domestic financial
institutions bear the burden of any extraordinary government
interventions where they occur, address their excessive risk
taking and help promote a level playing field, taking into
consideration individual country’s circumstances. We welcomed
the FSB, IMF and BCBS’s joint report on the inter-linkages
between these issues and noted that, moving forward, we need to
take into account the cumulative impact of the reforms on the
financial system and the wider economy to move unequivocally in
the direction of sound and stronger capital and liquidity
framework ; and  
 ?     stressed the importance of achieving a single set of
high quality, global accounting standards; implementing
international standards with regard to compensation practices
and welcomed the FSB’s report; completing the development of
standards for central clearing and trading on exchanges or
electronic platforms of all standardized over-the-counter
derivative contracts, where appropriate, and reporting to trade
repositories of all over-the-counter derivative contracts; and
consistent and coordinated oversight of hedge funds and credit
rating agencies. We welcomed the progress by the Financial
Action Task Force in the fight against money laundering and
terrorist financing, particularly regarding the issue of a
public statement on jurisdictions with strategic deficiencies
last February. We also welcomed the report by the Global Forum
on Tax Transparency and Exchange of Information, the launch of
the peer review process, and the development of a multilateral
mechanism for information exchange which will be open to all
countries. We welcomed the launch of the evaluation process by
the FSB on the adherence to prudential information exchange and
cooperation standards in all jurisdictions.  
 5. We noted the draft report on the scope of energy
subsidies and suggestions for the implementation of the
Pittsburgh commitment from the IEA, OPEC, OECD and World Bank.
In accordance with country ownership and circumstances and
recognizing the importance of providing those in need with
essential energy services, we recommitted to prepare strategies
and timetables for our meeting in June to rationalize and phase
out, over the medium term, of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies
that encourage wasteful consumption.  
 6. We urged progress to deliver on the representation and
governance reforms of the International Financial Institutions
agreed in Pittsburgh. We urged the IMF to deliver the quota and
governance reforms by the November Seoul Summit. We look forward
to an agreement on a package of voice reforms and World Bank
financial resources, together with reforms to ensure
effectiveness, at the upcoming Development Committee meeting. We
will work towards ambitious IDA16 and African Development Fund
replenishments. We welcomed the agreement in principle to
increase the capital of the IaDB and EBRD and to adopt a robust
reform agenda and look forward to the conclusion of discussions
on general capital increase of the African Development Bank. We
agreed to support full relief of Haiti’s debt by all IFIs,
including through burden sharing, and welcomed the agreement at
the IaDB and World Bank to relieve its debt and the
establishment of the Haiti Reconstruction Fund.  
 7. We acknowledged the progress achieved by the Financial
Inclusion Experts Group and look forward to the successful
launch of the ‘SME Finance Challenge’. We welcomed the work of
the Financial Safety Nets Experts Group and agreed to look at
policy options to improve global financial safety nets, based on
sound incentives, to better assist countries to deal with
volatility in global capital flows. Inefficient markets and
excess volatility in commodity prices more generally negatively
affect both producers and consumers. We will finalize our work
to address excessive commodity price volatility by improving the
functioning and transparency of physical and financial markets
in both producing and consuming countries.  
 8. We agreed to meet again on June 4-5 2010 in Busan,
Republic of Korea, to prepare for the June Leaders’ Summit in
Toronto, Canada.  
  The G-20 Framework for Strong, Sustainable and Balanced Growth  
 The primary goal of the Framework is to encourage G20
countries to implement coherent medium-term policy frameworks to
attain a mutually beneficial growth path and avoid future
crises. While G20 countries should adopt policy frameworks that
are appropriate to their individual circumstances, there are
clear benefits to collective action to achieve this goal. Such
an approach would also raise living standards in emerging
markets and developing countries.  
 Given that it may take several years to realise the
benefits of many policy reforms, G20 countries should consider
initiating actions now to attain stronger, and more balanced and
sustainable growth over the medium term.  Policy frameworks
should be forward looking to guide expectations and to be
sufficiently flexible to manage potential risks and facilitate
adjustment to shocks so that  strong, sustainable and balanced
growth can be maintained.
The objectives of strong, sustainable and balanced growth are
closely related and need to be pursued in a way that is mutually
reinforcing.  
 Strong growth should:
a.     Close current output and employment gaps in G20 countries
as soon as possible,
b.     Converge to the growth rate of potential output over the
medium term, and
c.     Be enhanced over the long term by increasing potential
output growth, primarily by efficiently utilizing available
resources through the implementation of more effective
structural policies.
Sustainable growth should be:
a.     In line with underlying potential growth over the medium
term, thereby providing a firm basis for long term growth,
b.     Based on sustainable public finances and price and
financial stability,
c.     Resilient to economic and financial shocks,
d.     Determined primarily by competitive market forces, and
e.     Consistent with social and environmental policy goals.  
 Balanced growth should:
a.     Be broadly based across all G20 countries and regions of
the world,
b.     Not  generate persistent and destabilizing internal or
external imbalances, and
c.     Consistent with broad development goals, in particular,
convergence to high standards of living across countries in the
long run.  
 In providing this support to the G-20, the Fund should be
informed by the general principles to which G-20 Leaders agreed
last year in Pittsburgh
( http://www.pittsburghsummit.gov/mediacenter/129639.htm ).  In
addition to this context, the Fund should be guided by the
following principles in developing the alternative policy
scenarios:
1.     The Fund should present a limited number of alternative
policy scenarios to Deputies (i.e., no more than 3-4);
2.     All scenarios must include policies aimed at ensuring a
collective outcome that brings the G-20 closer to its shared
objectives as laid out above;
3.     All scenarios must demonstrate a shared contribution to
adjustment and reform across the G-20 and that the mutual
benefits of strong, sustainable and balanced growth should be
broadly shared, taking into account the different stages of
development for countries as well as the spillover effects
across G-20 and non G-20 countries;
4.     The Fund should consider the specific and feasible fiscal,
monetary, structural and financial sector policy actions
necessary to achieve our overarching objectives of strong,
sustainable and balanced growth over the medium term;
5.     The broad social, environmental and development impacts of
the proposed policy recommendations in the scenarios should be
considered;
6.     The policy scenarios should consider the choices between
the pace of implementing policy actions and their feasibility,
credibility and effectiveness. As well, consideration should be
given to the choices of raising global growth and of achieving
more sustainable and balanced growth;
7.     Given that it may take several years to realise the
benefits of many policy reforms, the scenarios should consider
the actions that can be taken now to attain stronger, and more
balanced and sustainable growth over the medium term;
8.     Policy actions for June should be expressed as actions for
groups of countries facing similar circumstances, and regional
economic institutions where appropriate, taking into account
different national and regional economic structures and policy
frameworks; and
9.     The Fund should closely consult with G-20 countries
throughout the process when assessing the sustainability and
stability of an individual country’s macroeconomic policy.
In adopting these principles, the Fund’s report on alternative
policy scenarios should clearly describe the global effects of
adjustment, as well as the implications for member countries
across a spectrum of indicators.  
 We will ask the World Bank to advise us on progress in
promoting development and poverty reduction as part of
rebalancing of global growth.  
 We also look forward to contributions from other
international organizations, including the FSB on financial
policies, the ILO on labor market policies, the WTO on trade
policies, and the OECD and UNCTAD where appropriate.
  
          
          


  


        