-- Gerald McCoy's Tears Mark Oklahoma Sooners' Success in NFL Draft Round One
-- Aaron Kuriloff
-- 2010-04-23T05:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/gerald-mccoy-s-tears-mark-sooners-success-at-nfl-s-draft.html

          
          
             Sam Bradford was the first player
selected in the National Football League’s 75th draft. His
college teammate, Gerald McCoy, the third pick, was the first to
cry.  
 Bradford, McCoy and Trent Williams, all from the University
of Oklahoma, were three of the top four picks -- a first for a
school in the draft. Nebraska’s Ndamukong Suh was chosen second,
by the Detroit Lions.  
 McCoy celebrated his selection by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers
by breaking down in front of the draft’s first prime-time
television audience, bear-hugging Roger Goodell and telling
reporters afterward that he’d asked the NFL commissioner if it
was OK to weep.  
 “I told myself ‘Yeah, I won’t cry.’ Yeah, right,” McCoy
said. “I was really trying to hold it in but I was overcome by
emotions.”  
 Bradford’s selection by the St. Louis Rams opened a draft
that competed for television viewers against network shows such
as NBC’s “30 Rock” and CBS’s “Survivor: Heroes vs.
Villains.” It began with a red carpet in front of the
Rockettes’ home theater and concluded three hours and 28 minutes
later with the announcement by Drew Brees, quarterback for the
Super Bowl champion New Orleans Saints, of the team’s choice of
Patrick Robinson, a defensive back from Florida State.  
 The evening included appearances by Hall of Fame members
including Joe Montana and Lawrence Taylor. Fans in a myriad of
team jerseys celebrated and lamented each pick, while crews from
both Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN and the league’s NFL Network
broadcast the proceedings live.  
 ‘Unexplainable’  
 “You grow up, you dream of playing in the NFL and you
dream of hearing your name called on draft day,” Bradford told
reporters. “But to have it actually happen, it’s a feeling
that’s really unexplainable.”  
 The new St. Louis quarterback emerged on stage from behind
a purple curtain, carrying a Rams’ No. 1 jersey to a mix of
applause and jeers. He grinned through photographs with his
family and left through the audience, slapping hands with the
crowd. Bradford, who became the ninth player to win college
football’s Heisman Trophy and get chosen first, said he knew in
advance that McCoy might get teary.  
 “He told us, ‘When I hear my name, I’m going to cry,’”
Bradford said. “We knew it was coming. That’s just who he is.
He’s one of the best personalities I’ve ever come across and I
can’t wait to watch him play in the NFL.”  
 ‘Killed’  
 McCoy said he won’t take it easy on his former teammate
when they meet in the pros.  
 “He’s gonna get killed,” he said.  
 McCoy said he also looks forward to playing against
Williams, a tackle who was picked fourth by the Washington
Redskins.  
 “Me and Trent are boys but we’ve always had great battles
in practice and it’s going to continue at the next level,” he
said.  
 McCoy said the tears were for his mother, who died almost
three years ago. He said they started when he stood up to go
onstage and saw his father.  
 “The fire and drive that I have came from my mother,” he
said. “When I tried to quit my freshman year at Oklahoma, she’s
the one I talked to. She told me, ‘We don’t quit in this family.
If you quit, I’ll kill you.’ And it worked. I’m here now.”  
 All three players stand to gain financially from their
early selection. NFL teams typically overpay for the top players
in the draft, “in a manner that is inconsistent with rational
expectations and efficient markets,” according to a study by
economists Cade Massey and Richard H. Thaler.  
 McCoy said he intends to prove he was worth the No. 3 pick.  
 “I’m real, real, real nice off the field, so a lot of
people think I’m kind of soft,” he said. “Once I step across
those white lines, I turn into an animal and I plan to bring
that to Tampa.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Michele Steele reports on the first round of the National Football League draft. 
     Sam Bradford from the University of Oklahoma was selected by the St. Louis Rams with the No. 1 overall pick last night, while Tim Tebow was picked by the Denver Broncos with the 25th overall selection.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
