-- German Business Confidence Surges More Than Forecast as Exports Flourish
-- Jana Randow
-- 2010-04-23T09:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/german-business-confidence-surges-more-than-forecast-as-exports-flourish.html

          
          
             German business confidence rose
more than economists forecast to a two-year high in April as the
global economic recovery boosted export demand and warmer
weather allowed workers back onto construction sites.  
 The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, jumped to 101.6
from 98.2 in March. That’s the highest reading since May 2008.
Economists expected a gain to 98.7, according to the median of
37 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The International Monetary Fund this week raised its
forecast for global growth in 2010 to 4.2 percent from 3.9
percent, saying the recovery has “evolved better than
expected.” That’s helping Germany shrug off a Greek budget
crisis that’s undermining confidence in the 16-nation euro area
and the impact of Iceland’s volcanic eruption, which brought
European air traffic to a standstill last week.  
 “German businesses seem to be untouched by these downbeat
scenarios,” said Carsten Brzeski, senior economist at ING Group
in Brussels. “If the real economy now follows up on confidence
indicators’ promise, the near future looks very bright.”  
 The euro rose after the Ifo report and traded at $1.3335 at
11 a.m. in Frankfurt, up from 1.3230 this morning.  
 Ifo’s gauge of the current situation increased to 99.3 from
94.5, while an index of executives’ expectations rose to 104
from 102.  
 Strong Tailwinds  
 The German economy, Europe’s largest, resumed expansion in
the second quarter after the coldest winter in 14 years probably
saw it contract in the first, the Bundesbank said on April 19.  
 The euro’s 12 percent decline in the past five months is
making exports more competitive outside the currency bloc.
German manufacturing is expanding at a record pace and the
arrival of spring is buoying building activity and consumer
spending.  
 The government forecasts growth of 1.4 percent this year
and 1.6 percent in 2011. The economy shrank 5 percent in 2009,
the most since World War II.  
 “At the moment, tailwinds for the German economy are very
strong,” said Alexander Koch, an economist at UniCredit MIB in
Munich. “After the recovery took a breather in the first
quarter, we’ll see a powerful rebound in spring.”  
 Volcanic Ash  
 The recovery could be interrupted by ash spewing across
Europe from Iceland’s Eyjafjallajökull volcano. The ash cloud
forced the cancellation of more than 95,000 flights between
April 15 and April 21, disrupting conferences, forcing carmakers
to cut production and curbing shipments of fresh foods.  
 “In the worst-case scenario, in which the volcanic risk
bubbles on, intermittently shutting down North European air
space through the rest of the year, there would almost certainly
be no economic recovery in Europe in 2010,” Vanessa Rossi and
Will Jackson, research fellows in the international economics
program at London-based Chatham House, wrote in a report
published yesterday. “Given already poor expectations for
European growth this year, a relapse into a prolonged recession
would not be ruled out.”  
 The recovery may also prove sluggish as companies struggle
to shake off the impact of last year’s recession. The IMF cut
its forecasts for German growth this year to 1.2 percent from
1.5 percent.  
 Not China  
 “Germany’s export engine is running again but it won’t be
as fast and profitable as in the past,” said Sylvain Broyer,
chief euro-region economist at Natixis in Frankfurt. “Germany
may do better than most of the euro-area countries in the next
two years. But Germany is still Germany. It doesn’t have China’s
growth perspectives.”  
 Still, Volkswagen AG, Europe’s largest automaker, said this
week that first-quarter profit almost doubled as sales in China
and at its Audi luxury brand jumped to records.  
 Daimler AG, the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury
cars, this week raised profit forecasts for its Mercedes-Benz
and truck units after reporting better-than-expected earnings
for the three months through March.  
 A measure of German manufacturing growth by Markit
Economics this month rose to the highest level since the index
was created in 1996. German investor confidence also surged in
April as falling unemployment and the weaker euro improved
economic prospects.  
 The single European currency’s decline is partly due to
Greece’s fiscal crisis, which has fueled speculation the country
could default on its debts or even leave the euro region. The
euro fell below $1.33 yesterday after Moody’s Investors Service
cut Greece’s credit rating.  
 “At least for exporters a weak euro is definitely good for
the moment,” said Kai Carstensen, an economist at Ifo in Munich.
“In East Asia we see a strong increase in export demand for
German goods and clearly it helps here a lot.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An employee cleans a Lamborghini Gallardo LP 570-4 Superleggera automobile at the Volkswagen AG (VW) annual shareholders' meeting in Hamburg, on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
