-- Giants, Jets Opt to Add Defensive Help With First-Round Picks in NFL Draft
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-04-23T05:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/giants-jets-opt-to-add-defensive-help-with-first-round-picks-in-nfl-draft.html

          
          
             New York’s Giants and Jets
both opted for defensive players with their first-round
picks in the National Football League draft.  
 The Giants, seeking to improve a defense that allowed
the third-most points in the NFL last season, used the 15th
overall pick last night on pass-rushing defensive end Jason
Pierre-Paul from the University of South Florida.  
 “He has some freakish athletic skills that we’re
excited about trying to hone,” Giants General Manager
Jerry Reese said during a media conference call.  
 The Jets, with the 29th selection, added Boise State
cornerback Kyle Wilson to a defense that allowed the fewest
points in the league in 2009. Wilson is a native of
Piscataway, New Jersey, about a 45-minute drive from the
Jets’ new stadium in East Rutherford.  
 “I couldn’t have dreamt it any better,” Wilson said.  
 Pierre-Paul and Wilson were among 18 defensive players
taken yesterday in the first round of the draft. There were
14 offensive players, including University of Oklahoma
quarterback Sam Bradford -- who went No. 1 overall to the
St. Louis Rams.  
 Giants’ Pass Rushers  
 The 6-foot-6, 265-pound Pierre-Paul joins a group of
Giants pass rushers that includes Osi Umenyiora, Justin
Tuck and Mathias Kiwanuka.  
 Reese said last night that Umenyiora won’t be traded.
Umenyiora last season was demoted to playing in pass-
rushing situations and said this offseason that he wants a
trade if his role doesn’t change.  
 “Osi and I have talked,” Reese said. “Osi knows
that he is going to be here. Osi knows we are not looking
to shop him. He knows he is going to be a Giant in the fall
and he’s looking forward to that.”  
 The Giants finished 8-8 last season after a 5-0 start
and allowed 40 points or more in five games. They gave up
427 points for the season, behind only a franchise-record
501 in 1966. The 26.7 points-per-game average was the third
highest in the NFL, leading to the firing of defensive
coordinator Bill Sheridan.  
 As a junior at South Florida last season, Pierre-Paul
made 16 1/2 of his 45 tackles behind the line of scrimmage,
including 6 1/2 sacks.  
 ‘Outstanding Upside’  
 “This is a very, very talented young man with
outstanding upside,” Giants coach Tom Coughlin said. “It
gives us tremendous flexibility in terms of the number of
people that we have in our pass-rush rotation.”  
 Wilson is the latest addition to a Jets defense that
spearheaded the team’s run to the American Football
Conference championship game last season.  
 In coach Rex Ryan’s first season, the Jets allowed
14.8 points and 252.3 yards a game, the fewest in the NFL.  
 The Jets last month added cornerback Antonio Cromartie
to a secondary that has All-Pro cornerback Darrelle Revis.  
 “I’m looking to learn as much as I can from them,”
Wilson said from his home in Piscataway. “I don’t think it
could be a better situation.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        