-- Global Bonds Give U.S. Investors Higher Yield Opportunity, BKD Wealth Says
-- Amy Feldman
-- 2010-04-23T18:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/global-bonds-give-u-s-investors-higher-yield-opportunity-bkd-wealth-says.html

          
          
             U.S. investors should add global
bonds to their fixed-income portfolios to take advantage of
higher yields, said Jeffrey Layman, chief investment officer of
BKD Wealth Advisors.  
 Layman began moving clients into international bond funds
in developed and emerging markets starting last year. Global
bonds should account for up to 20 percent of the fixed-income
portion of a portfolio, said Layman, whose clients have an
average of $1.3 million in assets.  
 “It’s another element of diversification, and a way to
pick up yield,” Layman said in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York yesterday. BKD is based in Springfield,
Missouri, and has $1.6 billion under management.  
 Layman uses Templeton Global Bond Fund and T. Rowe Price
Emerging Markets Bond Fund. Templeton Global, with $31.9 billion
in assets, is up 23.4 percent for the last 12 months, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. T. Rowe Price Emerging Markets
Bond Fund, with $2.1 billion in assets, rose 32.9 percent in the
same period.  
 “There are significant credit opportunities in emerging
markets bonds,” Layman said. “That’s an area that’s attracting
a lot of inflows.”  
 International bond funds gained 17.8 percent in the last 12
months, according to Morningstar, the Chicago-based fund
researcher. Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index rose 8 percent in
the same period.  
 Brian Baker, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s Pimco Asia Ltd., said on April 21 investors
should buy emerging-market debt rather than bonds of developed
countries because advanced economies are poised for a period of
slower growth.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Feldman in New York at 
 afeldman16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        