-- Goldman Director Gupta Said to Be Suspect in Buffett Leak
-- David Scheer
-- 2010-04-23T22:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/goldman-sachs-director-gupta-said-to-be-suspected-of-leaking-buffett-deal.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director
Rajat Gupta is suspected by U.S. investigators of tipping off a
hedge fund billionaire to a $5 billion investment in the bank by
Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., a person with direct
knowledge of the inquiry said.  
 Gupta, 61, who has said he won’t stand for re-election to
Goldman Sachs’s board, told Galleon Group founder Raj Rajaratnam
about Buffett’s plan before it was announced in September 2008,
the person said, declining to be identified because the inquiry
isn’t public.  
 Rajaratnam, who was arrested Oct. 16, is fighting criminal
charges and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission civil claims
that he used inside information to trade shares of companies
including Advanced Micro Devices Inc. In a March 22 letter to
Rajaratnam’s lawyers, made public April 9, prosecutors said they
had an interest in his trading in Goldman Sachs stock in 2008.
Three days before the letter was sent, Goldman Sachs announced
Gupta was leaving its board.  
 “Rajat has neither violated any law nor done anything else
improper,” his attorney, Gary Naftalis of Kramer, Levin,
Naftalis & Frankel LLP, said in a statement. “He has always
conducted himself with integrity in his business, philanthropic
and personal life.”  
 Goldman Sachs spokesman Samuel Robinson, SEC spokesman John
Nester and Janice Oh, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara in New York, declined to comment.  
 Gupta hasn’t been formally accused of any wrongdoing. The
Wall Street Journal reported the news earlier today.  
 Goldman Sachs, the most profitable firm in Wall Street
history, agreed to sell $5 billion in preferred shares that paid
10 percent interest to Buffett, after the Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. bankruptcy and Bank of America Corp.’s purchase of
Merrill Lynch & Co.  
 Gupta was McKinsey’s worldwide chief from 1994 to 2003, and
a senior worldwide partner until 2007. He withdrew from the
consulting firm and joined the boards of American Airlines
parent AMR Corp., Procter & Gamble Co., Harman International
Industries Inc. Genpact Ltd., the business outsourcing company,
and Russia’s OAO Sberbank.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        