-- Goldman Gambles as Lawyers Say Bank Should Settle With SEC
-- David Scheer
-- 2010-04-23T13:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/goldman-sachs-gambles-its-reputation-on-standoff-with-u-s-regulators.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. may be
better off cutting its losses instead of fighting what it terms
“unfounded” fraud claims, say professors of securities law who
have examined the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
lawsuit against the bank.  
 The most profitable firm in Wall Street history will
probably lose what is typically the first hurdle in court, a
motion to throw out the April 16 suit because it lacks legal
merit, the professors said in interviews this week. After that,
Goldman Sachs’s risks will mount and its negotiating position
will weaken, they said.  
 “There’s a very low probability that Goldman could get the
case dismissed,” said Thomas Hazen of the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, whose books include a two-volume
treatise on broker-dealer law. “Every pretrial motion the SEC
wins, Goldman gets one step closer to losing.”  
 Goldman Sachs is the first major Wall Street firm accused
by regulators of fraud connected to the collapse of the subprime
mortgage market. The SEC’s allegation that Goldman Sachs
defrauded investors sparked a 13 percent, one-day decline in its
shares. The New York-based firm, led by Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd Blankfein, 55, said it will vigorously contest the claims.
It must weigh the risks of a drawn-out legal battle against the
benefits of a more immediate resolution.  
 “We are disappointed that the SEC would bring this action
related to a single transaction in the face of an extensive
record which establishes that the accusations are unfounded in
law and fact,” the bank said after the complaint was filed.
Lucas van Praag, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to comment
yesterday on the likelihood of getting the case dismissed.  
 Senate Hearing  
 Blankfein and other executives at the bank are scheduled to
testify at a Senate hearing next week along with Fabrice Tourre,
the Goldman Sachs banker who was also sued by the SEC. The
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations will explore investment
banks’ role in the financial crisis at the April 27 hearing.  
 Blankfein yesterday attended a speech by President Barack
Obama in New York City pushing for financial regulatory reform, 
as Congress weighs legislation that could crimp profits for 
Goldman Sachs and the biggest U.S. banks. The legislation may 
come to the Senate floor as early as next week.  
 Even if top managers are certain they’re right on the
merits of the case, Goldman Sachs should probably settle, said
senior executives at three of the firm’s rivals. The executives,
speaking anonymously because they wouldn’t comment publicly on a
competitor, said Goldman Sachs would be better off by deciding
to settle the suit, cut its losses, and focus on repairing the
damage to the firm’s reputation.  
 Paulson’s Pick  
 Two of the executives said they also believe Goldman Sachs
may have to change senior management to give the appearance that
the firm is changing the way it does business.  
 The SEC’s case revolves around whether the firm should have
told investors that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the
underlying securities in a collateralized debt obligation -- and
then bet against it. Paulson wasn’t accused of wrongdoing.  
 That’s too nuanced a judgment to make on the limited
evidence available so far, making it unlikely the case will be
dismissed, said Peter Henning, a former SEC attorney who teaches
at Wayne State University Law School in Detroit. U.S. District
Judge Barbara Jones, who was assigned the case and also presided
over the case of former WorldCom Inc. CEO Bernard Ebbers, won’t
dismiss it because materiality is what’s at issue, said Columbia
University’s John Coffee.  
 Lawsuit Fodder?  
 If the SEC’s case survives a dismissal motion, the case
would probably proceed to discovery, when the agency may seek
additional testimony or information from the firm. That process
could provide fodder for private lawsuits, additional
allegations from regulators, or media attention that would
further tarnish the firm’s image, according to George Cohen, a
corporate law professor at the University of Virginia School of
Law, and Lisa Casey, who teaches securities law at the
University of Notre Dame in Indiana.  
 “The evidence and rumors would be difficult to contain,”
Casey said. “The market could react any time more information
leaks out to the press.”  
 Goldman Sachs’s shares have slipped 1 percent this week
after the April 16 tumble. The stock rose $1.31 to $160.35 as of
9:35 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Few professors were willing to predict which side would win
in a trial, saying the case will depend on evidence and
testimony that isn’t yet public. If weaknesses emerge in the
SEC’s case, Goldman Sachs may decide to press on.  
 Reputational Risks  
 The reputational stakes are so high that Goldman Sachs may
feel pressure to keep fighting, said Onnig Dombalagian, a former
attorney fellow at the SEC who teaches at Tulane University Law
School in New Orleans. “For Goldman not to stand behind its
deals would be problematic for the firm,” he said.  
 If Goldman Sachs settles or loses at trial, “people are
going to ask, ‘Am I one of the clients who Goldman does deals
for, or am I one of the clients Goldman does deals against?’”
Dombalagian said. “There’s the saying that if you don’t know
who the mark at the table is, you’re probably the mark.”  
 Tamar Frankel, a corporate governance professor at Boston
University, said a jury may be hostile to Goldman Sachs. “If
many of the jurors have lost chunks of their savings in the
crisis, the weight will be for the SEC,” Frankel said.  
 The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Goldman
Sachs, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Traders at the Goldman Sachs Group Inc. booth on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange watch a live broadcast of President Barack Obama speaking about financial regulatory reform in New York, on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 22 (Bloomberg) -- Jacob Frenkel, a former SEC lawyer now in private practice at Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker in Potomac, Maryland, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the Securities and Exchange Commission’s lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
     Fabrice Tourre, the Goldman Sachs banker at the center of fraud allegations against the firm, has agreed to testify and may defend his actions at a Senate hearing next week, said two people briefed on the plan. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Su Keenan reports on Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s plan to fight the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's fraud lawsuit against the company.
     Blankfein yesterday attended a speech by President Barack Obama in New York pushing for financial regulatory overhaul. He and other Goldman executives are scheduled to testify at a Senate hearing next week. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., chats with other attendees prior to a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama  about financial reform at Cooper Union in New York, on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
