-- GMO's Grantham: Bernanke Risks Fueling New Bubble
-- Charles Stein
-- 2010-04-23T20:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/grantham-of-gmo-says-bernanke-s-policies-risk-fueling-another-asset-bubble.html

          
          
             Jeremy Grantham, chief investment
strategist at Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co., said a longer
period of below-average economic growth carries the risk of
fueling a third stock-market bubble because Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben Bernanke would likely keep interest rates low.  
 “If we get lucky and have a strong, broad, and sustained
economic recovery, interest rates will probably rise before
we reach real bubble territory,” Grantham wrote in his
quarterly newsletter, posted on GMO’s Web site. “If, however,
the economy only limps along, which seems more likely to me,
then we run a very real danger of a third dangerous bubble in
stocks and in risk-taking in general.”  
 Grantham, who estimates the fair value of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 is 875, said the market’s 80 percent rally in one
year is “excessive” and was fueled more by the Fed’s monetary
policy than by the rebound in the economy, which is facing
“seven lean years.”  
 U.S. stocks advanced again today, extending the Dow Jones
Industrial Average’s longest weekly winning streak in six years,
as the biggest jump in new home sales in almost five decades
bolstered optimism the economy is improving.  
 “Speculators are not stupid. They see that after each
crash, a long, artificial period of low rates and easy financial
borrowing has been delivered,” Grantham wrote. “They see that
Bernanke is an unreconstructed Greenspanite in that he refuses
to address bubbles, but will leap to help ease the pain should a
bubble break. With asymmetry like that, why not speculate?”  
 Bearish Calls  
 The Dow climbed 69.99 points, or 0.6 percent, to 11,204.28
at the 4 p.m. close in New York, completing an eighth straight
weekly gain. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent to
a 19-month high of 1,217.28, capping its seventh weekly advance
in the past eight.  
 Grantham, 71, is best-known for his bearish calls on U.S.
stocks. In 2000 he accurately predicted that U.S. stocks would
lose money in the coming decade. The S&P 500 lost 1 percent a
year in the 10 years ended Dec. 31, 2009.  
 In March 2009, he recommended investors get back into
stocks, just as equity prices reached a 12-year low. By July
2009 he said stock prices had climbed too high. In a January
speech in Boston, he referred to that brief period “as my short
life as a bull.”  
 Grantham recommended investors buy high-quality U.S.
stocks, which he defines as stocks of large companies with a
high and stable return and low levels of debt. He mentioned
Atlanta-based Coca-Cola and Redmond-based Microsoft Corp.  
 In his current newsletter Grantham also criticized Bernanke
for helping bail out weaker companies, rather than let them be
acquired by stronger competitors. Last year, he compared giving
Bernanke a second term as Fed chairman to reappointing the
captain of the Titanic.  
 “We are helping to restore the financial health of the
banks and bankers, who under these conditions, could not fail to
make a fortune even if brain dead,” Grantham wrote in the
current newsletter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        