-- Greece Must Copy Baltic Debt Crisis Model to Survive, Finance Chiefs Say
-- Agnes Lovasz
-- 2010-04-23T10:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/greece-must-copy-baltic-debt-crisis-model-to-survive-finance-chiefs-say.html

          
          
             Greece must deploy budget cuts on
the same scale as the Baltics to survive its debt crisis and
sacrifice economic growth to restore fiscal health, Latvia’s
central bank governor and Lithuania’s finance minister said.  
 The Baltic nations, whose fixed exchange rates last year
forced them to execute the European Union’s toughest austerity
packages to protect their finances, suffered the 27-member
bloc’s deepest recessions. Latvia’s economic output slumped an
annual 19 percent in the third quarter, Lithuania’s contracted
19.5 percent the previous quarter, while Estonian output dropped
16.1 percent in the same period. All three had their ratings
outlooks raised last month at Moody’s Investors Service.  
 Greece today called for the activation of a 45 billion-euro
($60 billion) emergency loan from its EU partners and the
International Monetary Fund as the government struggles to meet
soaring debt costs. The yield on Greek two-year bonds yesterday
jumped above 10 percent, more than double the rate on Latvia’s
2014 note. Latvia cut public spending by 10 percent of gross
domestic product last year after receiving a 7.5 billion-euro EU
and IMF-led loan in 2008.  
 ‘No Other Choice’  
 “The Greek situation is similar to Latvia’s in that there
is no other choice but to downsize expenditures,” Latvian
central bank Governor Ilmars Rimsevics said in an interview last
week. “We are very pleased that Latvia is more and more
mentioned as a template because a year ago people were thinking
we are going to fail. Today, things are more or less out of the
woods.”  
 Greece is more likely to default than all the EU’s emerging
members, credit default swaps show. The cost of insuring against
Greek default jumped to an all-time high yesterday and Greek 10-
year yields rose to the highest since at least 1998.  
 After Greece’s announcement of the rescue request, the 2-
year yield declined 82 basis points to 9.481 percent. The yield
premium on 10-year Greek bonds over bunds narrowed to 500 basis
points from 590 basis points.  
 Credit-default swaps tied to Greece’s government bonds
climbed 158 basis points to a record 650 yesterday, according to
CMA DataVision prices, after the European Union’s Luxembourg-
based statistics office said its budget deficit may have
exceeded 14 percent of GDP last year. Greek CDS fell 54 basis
points to 591 today.  
 House in Order  
 Latvia’s 5-year credit default swaps were at 328 basis
points yesterday, compared with a high of about 1,200 basis
points in March 2009. Five-year Lithuanian CDS were at 219 basis
points.  
 Even after spending cuts, Latvia’s deficit widened to 9
percent of GDP last year, the EU said yesterday, as the economy
shrank 18 percent. The Riga-based government has pledged more
spending cuts in the next two years to comply with the euro-
adoption limit of 3 percent. Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis’s
government targets the currency switch for 2014.  
 Lithuanian Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius’s measures
helped cap the public deficit at 8.9 percent of GDP, without
having to resort to a bailout. Without wage cuts, tax increases
and other spending cuts, the deficit might have swelled to 17.5
percent, he said on April 15.  
 “If a country can’t raise money at favorable terms to
finance the deficit, the country must reduce the deficit; this
is something we know a lot about,” said Finance Minister
Ingrida Simonyte in an interview last week. “Baltic countries
had to clean up their houses very quickly in order to get back
on track,” while “Greece was able to raise money in
international markets last year at rates I would envy.”  
 No Delay  
 Even so, Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government,
faced with street protests and strikes against budget cuts, has
failed to convince investors Greece can shore up its debt. The
Greek government can’t afford to delay austerity measures,
Rimsevics said.  
 Swedish central bank Governor Stefan Ingves, who said last
week that Greece’s bailout may follow the path set out by
Latvia, added that while the EU and IMF would be involved in the
financing, “in the end the country itself will have to deal
with its fiscal problems.”  
 “It should be a Greek program, the Greeks should be
designing, constructing and communicating it,” said Rimsevics.
“The key question is the speed and the clarity of the measures
and that the market believes in these measures. The more dragged
out in time, the less effective they are.”  
 The Greek example also shows that the euro isn’t the safe
haven it was once perceived to be by the EU’s emerging members.  
 “The countries can learn that euro is not a solution, it’s
always the fiscal policy, the home policies that are the
solution,” Simonyte said. “You can’t spend a lot of money and
hope there will be somebody who will clean up your unsustainable
deficit.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        