-- Greece Asks EU to Trigger Bailout Agreement
-- Maria Petrakis
-- 2010-04-23T15:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/greece-asks-eu-imf-to-activate-bailout-deal-that-may-test-euro-stability.html

          
          
             Greece called for activation of a
financial lifeline of as much as 45 billion euros ($60 billion)
this year in an unprecedented test of the euro’s stability and
European political cohesion.  
 The appeal for help from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund follows a surge in borrowing costs
to what Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou called
unsustainable levels that undermine efforts to cut a budget
deficit that is more than four times the EU limit.  
 “There was no response from the markets, either because
they didn’t believe in the political will of the EU or because
they decided to go on with speculation,” Papandreou said today.
“The situation threatens to demolish not only the sacrifices of
the people but also the regular course of the economy.”  
 With national debt of almost 300 billion euros and
investors demanding almost triple what they charge Germany for
its 10-year bonds, Greece faces a fiscal mess that threatened to
spread to Spain and Portugal, forcing the EU to set up a standby
aid facility. At stake is the future of the euro 11 years after
its creators gave the European Central Bank responsibility for
interest rates while leaving budget policy in national capitals.  
 Rating Cut  
 The request came a day after the yield on the country’s
benchmark two-year note topped 11 percent, approaching that of
Pakistan, and Moody’s Investors Service lowered Greece’s
creditworthiness by one notch to A3, saying it was considering
further cuts. Greek securities initially rallied on the
announcement and then pared the gains.  
 “Clearly, the package will buy Greece time this year,”
said Colin Ellis, European economist at Daiwa Capital in London.
“But that’s all that it has done. Greece still faces a
herculean task to show that it can get its public finances in
order and reduce its deficit.”  
 The yield on the Greek 2-year bond rose 4 basis points to
10.672 percent, the highest since before the start of the euro
in 1999 and more than 10 times the German rate. The yield had
declined more than 200 basis points today.  
 Greece’s ASE stock index also reversed a gain of as much as
4.6 percent and declined 0.2 percent to 1857.96. The benchmark
has shed more than a third of its value in the past six months
as banks, the biggest holders of Greek bonds, slumped and
concerns the crisis will lead to a prolonged recession hurt the
market.  
 One Roof  
 The euro, which has dropped 7 percent this year as Greece
undermined confidence in the single currency, rose to $1,3363
today after slipping to a one-year low yesterday of $1.3261.  
 Economists including Harvard University Professor Martin
Feldstein have said the single currency would falter because
divergent economies couldn’t fit under one monetary roof.  
 The Greek request needs approval from all 15 other euro-
area countries including Germany, where surveys have shown
public opposition to aiding Greece. BlackRock Inc., the world’s
largest money manager, has expressed concerns about a
“backlash” from citizens in EU nations prepared to offer a
lifeline.  
 “We want to see the EU countries really get behind it and
see that they’ve gelled around the idea of providing this
support at the government level, at the senior policy maker
level,” Curtis Arledge, chief investment officer of fixed
income at BlackRock, said on April 13. “If you see the
backlash, they need to get their people on board.”  
 National Approval  
 Luxembourg’s parliament today approved its part of the
loans. France has already earmarked the funds, which still need
legislative approval. Germany, which will put up 8.4 billion
euros of the loans, is “ready to act” on parliamentary
approval, Finance Ministry spokesman Michael Offer said today.  
 The three-year aid facility for Greece offers as much as 30
billion euros in loans from euro-area nations this year at a
below-market interest rate of about 5 percent. As much as 15
billion euros are available in the first year from the IMF at
even lower rates, EU officials have said.  
 The Greek government started talks on April 21 in Athens
with EU and IMF officials to set conditions on the funds before
they are disbursed. Such deliberations, which usually take two
to three weeks, may be completed in “a matter of days,” said
EU spokesman Amadeu Altafaj.  
 Looming Redemptions  
 Facing 8.5 billion euros of bonds maturing May 19 and with
little chance of being able to tap the financial markets, Greece
won a promise by the IMF chief to act speedily over the call for
a financial lifeline.  
 “We are prepared to move expeditiously on this request,”
IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn said today.  
 Greek Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou said the
approval processes by the euro area and IMF “will all go in
parallel and quickly.” He said that triggering the aid facility
leaves “no doubt” about Greece’s ability to repay debt next
month and that the country will tap markets again “when the
conditions are appropriate.”  
 Under EU rules, governments must keep their budget deficits
below 3 percent of gross domestic product. While the EU can
penalize countries for breaching the limit, no nation has been
sanctioned since the euro was introduced in 1999. Of the 16 euro
region members, only Luxembourg and Finland had deficits within
the limit last year.  
 The government’s deficit-cutting goal became questionable
yesterday after Eurostat, the EU’s statistics agency, revised up
the 2009 shortfall to 13.6 percent of GDP, and said it was
considering a further revision to as much as 14.1 percent.  
 Deficit Pledges  
 The government in Athens had pledged to reduce the budget
deficit by at least 4 percentage points of GDP this year to 8.7
percent. When Greece first made that pledge, its starting point
was a 2009 deficit of 12.7 percent.  
 Unions have already put the government on notice that there
will be more strikes if Papandreou seeks to impose more
austerity measures beyond the tax increases and wage cuts
already implemented under the 2010 deficit goals. Civil servants
held their fourth one-day strike of the year this week and other
unions have regularly walked off the job since the original
measures were announced, threatening to deepen the recession.  
 Greece’s economy may contract 4 percent this year, twice as
much as in 2009 and double the government’s forecast, according
to Deutsche Bank AG. After a wave of domestic protests against
austerity measures, the government needs to raise almost 10
billion euros by the end of May to cover maturing bonds and
another 20 billion euros by the end of the year to pay debt
coupons and finance the deficit.  
 Late Entry  
 Greece failed to qualify for the euro area initially,
joining two years later and only after understating its budget
gap. With the euro, ECB interest rates that never exceeded 4.75
percent and EU funds to help build roads and airports, the
country had economic growth of about 4 percent on an annual
average basis -- one of the fastest in Europe -- until 2008 when
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse sparked a global
financial crisis.  
 German politicians have expressed reluctance to aid Greece,
citing the country’s manipulation of statistics to qualify for
euro entry and an EU treaty clause that prohibits bailouts.  
 Allies of Chancellor Angela Merkel, a Christian Democrat,
criticized her for signing up to an April 11 European deal
setting some of the terms of any aid for Greece, saying she
dropped an initial demand that subsidies be ruled out.  
 ‘Stringent Conditions’  
 “Germany buckled under the pressure -- we shouldn’t kid
ourselves that such loans are anything but subsidies,” Frank
Schaeffler, deputy finance spokesman for Merkel’s Free Democrat
junior coalition partners, said at the time.  
 Merkel today said the Greek government, which aims to
bring its deficit within the European limit in 2012, must
satisfy “very stringent conditions” for aid and negotiate a
“credible savings program” with the EU and IMF.  
 “Only when those two conditions are met can we talk about
specific aid, including the kind of aid and the amount,” she
said.  
 Papandreou had called the EU-IMF aid facility a “loaded
gun” that would lower borrowing costs in the market and make an
actual request for support unnecessary. Investors weren’t
intimidated and the rout in Greek bonds intensified after the
aid package was adopted on April 11. Greek 10-year bond yields
have soared more than 125 basis points since then and topped 10
percent yesterday, the highest since 1998.  
 The yield premium that investors demand to hold Greek 10-
year bonds instead of benchmark German debt widened to more than
500 basis points yesterday, the most since before the euro’s
1999 debut.  
 To contact the reporter on this story: Jonathan Stearns in
Athens at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net  Maria
Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     George Papandreou, Greece's prime minister, speaks at a press conference following the European Union Summit in Brussels, on March 26, 2010. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 22 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC, talks with Bloomberg’s Matt Miller and Carol Massar about Greece's debt crisis.
     The European Union said Greece’s budget deficit last year was worse than previously forecast and Moody’s Investors Service cut the country’s creditworthiness, sending Greek bond yields soaring. Bianco also discusses U.S. stocks, corporate earnings and financial regulation.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Simon Derrick, chief currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., talks about Greece's call to activate a financial lifeline from the European Union and International Monetary Fund.
     Derrrick speaks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton from London.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Greek euro coin sits on a stack of euro coins arranged for a photograph in Athens, on April 9, 2010. Photographer: Kostas Tsironis/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
