-- Greek Aid Plan May Not Satisfy Investors
-- Bryan Keogh
-- 2010-04-24T01:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/greek-financial-rescue-plan-may-offer-little-respite-as-debt-woes-to-mount.html

          
          
             Greece’s request for a $60 billion
bailout led by the European Union may fail to ease investor
concerns about the nation’s ability to end its fiscal crisis.  
 A rebound in Greek bonds after the government’s request for
a rescue yesterday, fizzled out as investors kept their focus on
a budget deficit that will still be around 10 percent of gross
domestic product this year even after austerity measures. The
yield on the Greek two-year note rose to 10.23 percent, after
falling to 9.63 percent.  
 “We are not buying Greek debt while so many problems
remain unsolved,” said Ralf Ahrens, who holds Greek bonds as
part of the about $20 billion he manages as head of fixed-income
at Frankfurt Trust. “Asking for the package will not calm down
the market.”  
 European policy makers have only spelled out the aid that
Greece would receive over the next year, sparking concerns about
how the country will finance itself beyond 2011. While Greece
has pledged to lower its budget deficit below the EU’s 3 percent
limit by 2012, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says the country’s
challenge is so great the nation may cut or delay payments to
bond investors.  
 The extra yield that investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
debt over German bunds has surged more than 200 basis points
since the start of last week.  
 Clarity  
 “We wouldn’t touch Greece at the moment,” said Rod
Davidson, head of fixed income at Alliance Trust Plc in Dundee,
Scotland. “The market needs some clarity on whether or not
there will be some kind of restructuring of Greek bonds. There’s
too much uncertainty and volatility.”  
 Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty called the Greek
turmoil a “source of concern” at a meeting of finance
ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20 in Washington
yesterday.  
 U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling said the
euro area “has to get on with” helping Greece because failure
to resolve the crisis would “simply delay confidence coming
back to the world economy.” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner Olli Rehn said work should be completed on a
program by early May.  
 European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald
Nowotny rejected as “totally unfounded” speculation that
Greece’s troubles will now spread to other high-deficit
countries such as Portugal and Spain.  
 Swaps Rise  
 His French colleague, Christian Noyer, agreed and said the
euro remains an “extremely strong” currency.  
 Credit-default swaps on Greek sovereign bonds fell 15 basis
points to 619, after falling to as low as 584, according to CMA
DataVision prices. Contracts were at 287 basis points on March
17. A basis point on a swap insuring $10 million of debt for
five years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  
 Greece’s national debt is almost 300 billion euros and
investors are demanding more than double what they charge
Germany for its 10-year bonds. The crisis is threatening to
spread to Spain and Portugal, forcing the EU to set up a standby
aid facility.  
 Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s appeal yesterday
came after he described the country’s borrowing costs as
unsustainable.  
 Turning over economic policy to EU and IMF oversight was
“a new Odyssey for Greece,” Papandreou said. “But we know the
road to Ithaca and have charted the waters,” referring to the
return of mythological hero Ulysses to his island home.  
 The EU has said it’s prepared to lend Greece three-year
funds in 2010 at about 5 percent and declined to say what will
be dispersed next year.  
 Officials from the EU and the IMF are meeting their Greek
counterparts in Athens to discuss terms of the loans as workers
strike in protest against further austerity measures.  
 Avoiding Greece  
 “There must be a better way to make money than investing
in Greek bonds at the moment,” said John Stopford, co-head of
fixed income at Investec Asset Management Ltd. in London, which
oversees about $65 billion in assets. “Despite the aid package,
we are not convinced by the risk and return of the bonds. We are
not comfortable with things that are driven by politics rather
than fundamentals.”  
 The premium that investors want to hold Greek two-year
notes over 10-year bonds widened to 164 basis points after
falling to as low as 121 basis points when Papandreou said he
would activate the aid package.  
 Short-term yields rising above longer term ones, creating a
so-called inverted yield curve, indicate that investors are
concerned they may be forced to accept delayed or reduced
payments.  
 The EU, which will finance the rescue with the IMF, said
the terms of the aid package may be agreed “in a matter of
days.”  
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who has stressed her
reluctance to put her taxpayers’ money at risk since the crisis
started, said that any Greek aid is contingent on its deficit-
cutting commitments.  
 Germany and France will contribute more than half of the
bailout funds, Germany putting in 8.4 billion euros and France
providing 6.3 billion euros, according to an EU document
obtained by Bloomberg News. They are followed by Italy and Spain.  
 “The request for the bailout has put a temporary respite
on spreads widening, but the market still wants to know the
specifics of how much will be given, at what cost and for how
long,” said Marc Ostwald, a fixed-income strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in London.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Bryan Keogh in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     George Papandreou, Greece's prime minister, speaks at a press conference following the European Union Summit in Brussels, on March 26, 2010. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Stovin-Bradford of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about Greece's appeal to the European Union and the International Monetary Fund to activate a financial lifeline of as much as 45 billion euros ($60 billion). (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Simon Derrick, chief currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., talks about Greece's call to activate a financial lifeline from the European Union and International Monetary Fund.
     Derrrick speaks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton from London.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Marco Annunziata, chief economist at UniCredit Group, talks with Bloomberg’s Margaret Brennan about market reaction to Greece's request for activation of a European Union-led $60 billion aid package. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
