-- Greece Leads Decline in Sovereign Default Risk on Request for Bailout Plan
-- Bryan Keogh
-- 2010-04-23T13:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/greece-leads-decline-in-sovereign-default-risk-on-request-for-bailout-plan.html

          
          
             Greece led a decrease in the cost
of insuring against default on European sovereign debt after the
country said it will request a financial lifeline.  
 Credit-default swaps on Greek government bonds fell 18
basis points to 611, after earlier dropping to 584, CMA
DataVision prices show. Swaps on Portugal declined 3 basis
points to 273, Spain dropped 4 to 168 and Ireland was little
changed at 174.  
 Greece called for activation of an aid package of as much
as 45 billion euros ($60 billion) in an unprecedented test of
the euro’s stability and European political cohesion. The appeal
to the European Union and International Monetary Fund follows a
surge in borrowing costs to what Prime Minister George
Papandreou described as unsustainable levels.  
 The request for aid should “greatly diminish” market
concerns that Greece will seek to restructure its debt, said
Luca Cazzulani, a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Milan. “What will be quite important now is to see how much
money they will get, how fast and from whom.”  
 The yield premium investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds climbed to 551 basis
points after earlier narrowing to 491. The spread widened to 590
basis points yesterday, the biggest gap since at least March
1998 when Bloomberg began compiling the generic prices.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a credit-default swap contract protecting against default on $10
million of debt for five years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in London at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net ;
Bryan Keogh in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        