-- Oil Spill From Rig Blast Is 10 Miles Wide
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-04-23T12:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/gulf-of-mexico-oil-spill-covers-100-square-miles-after-drilling-rig-blast.html

          
          
             An oil spill near the site where
Transocean Ltd.’s Deepwater Horizon rig caught fire April 20 and
sank yesterday has spread over an area of 100 square miles in
the Gulf of Mexico and is drifting northeast toward shore.  
 The spill measures 10 miles (16 kilometers) by 10 miles,
about four times the area of Manhattan, and is comprised of a
“light sheen with a few patches of thicker crude,” U.S. Coast
Guard Lieutenant Commander Cheri Ben-Iesau said today. The Coast
Guard’s search continues for 11 rig workers who are still
missing, she said in a telephone interview.  
 Aircraft hired by BP Plc, the oil producer that leased the
Deepwater Horizon from Transocean, sprayed the spill with a
chemical dispersant overnight, Ben-Iesau said. Eleven skimming
vessels were collecting oil from the water’s surface, she said.
The oil spill is about 43 miles south of Venice, Louisiana.  
 “This certainly has the potential to be a major spill,”
David Rainey, London-based BP’s vice president for Gulf of
Mexico production, said yesterday at a press conference in New
Orleans. An effort to close well valves on the sea floor using
remote-operated vehicles will continue. BP hired a rig capable
of drilling down to plug the well if necessary, he said.  
 Michael O’Berry, a senior chief petty officer with the
Coast Guard, said remote-operated vehicles found no new leakage
from the well yesterday.  
 Blowout  
 The rig had burned for more than 24 hours after an
explosion April 20 that Geneva-based Transocean said was caused
by a so-called blowout, an unexpected surge in pressure that
ejected petroleum at the top of the well.  
 Of 126 workers aboard, 115 were rescued. If the missing
workers died, it would be the deadliest U.S. offshore rig
explosion since 1968, when 11 died and 20 were injured at a
platform owned by Gulf Oil Corp., according to data from the
Minerals Management Service. A 1987 helicopter crash aboard a
Forest Oil Corp. platform killed 14 people.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc shut its Nakika offshore oil platform
and a pipeline in the Gulf of Mexico a mile away, as a
precaution against the sunken Deepwater Horizon drifting into it
and causing another spill, said Jill Davis, a company
spokeswoman. Another, unidentified pipeline was shut nearby, the
Coast Guard said.  
 The Coast Guard throttled back its search for survivors to
the cutter Coho overnight, Ben-Iesau said. Three aerial searches
are planned today. Hope was fading that the 11 missing crew
survived, Coast Guard Rear Admiral Mary Landry said at
yesterday’s press conference.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Fire boats battle the fire at the off shore oil rig Deepwater Horizonin the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Louisiana. Source: U.S. Coast Guard via Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
