-- Iceland Rating Outlook Raised at Moody's After IMF Resumed Bailout Program
-- Tasneem Brogger
-- 2010-04-23T11:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/iceland-rating-outlook-raised-at-moody-s-after-imf-resumed-bailout-program.html

          
          
             Iceland had its credit rating
outlook raised at Moody’s Investors Service after the
International Monetary Fund resumed its bailout program with the
island this month.  
 Moody’s raised the outlook on Iceland’s Baa3 rating to
stable from negative, it said in a statement today. The island
still carries Moody’s lowest investment grade rating.  
 The Washington-based Fund resumed its program with the
Atlantic island this month, triggering a $160 million tranche,
according to an April 16 statement. The approval also gave
Iceland access to an additional $673 million from the Nordic
countries and Poland to strengthen its foreign reserves as it
targets the removal of capital controls that have frozen about
$4.7 billion in krona assets.  
 “The successful passage of the IMF review and re-
instatement of the Nordic credit line ensures that Iceland’s
external liquidity is now secure,” Moody’s Senior Credit
Analyst Kenneth Orchard said in the statement. “The resumption
of official financial inflows into the country should also boost
confidence and support the ongoing economic recovery.”  
 The IMF and contributing countries opted to resume the
bailout even after Iceland was unable to settle a depositor
claims dispute with the U.K. and Netherlands. Iceland owes the
two countries about $5.3 billion stemming from losses in so-
called Icesave accounts following the failure of Landsbanki
Islands hf in October 2008.  
 Markets  
 The yield on Iceland’s 7.25 percent note due 2013 slipped 2
basis points to 5.96 percent, sending the bond to the highest in
at least a year. Credit default swaps on the island’s five-year
debt have almost halved since a February peak to 373.73 basis
points yesterday, according to CMA prices on Bloomberg.
Iceland’s CDS have been trading lower than contracts on Greek
debt since April 7, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The resumption of the IMF-led bailout supports Iceland’s
ability to service debt payments due at the end of next year.  
 Iceland will probably have access to an additional 1.56
billion euros ($2.08 billion) from the IMF and the Nordic
countries over the next 16 months, Moody’s said. The island’s
2011 and 2012 Eurobonds have a combined nominal value of 1.25
billion euros, the service said.  
 ‘Relatively Secure’  
 “Iceland’s ability to repay its Eurobonds is now
relatively secure,” Orchard said. “The renewed liquidity
facilities from the IMF and Nordic governments provide a
significant backstop if the government is unable to refinance
the bonds in the international capital markets.”  
 The krona, which is protected by capital restrictions, has
gained 5.1 percent against the euro this year, after falling 6
percent last year. The currency lost as much as 80 percent
offshore in 2008 after Iceland’s three biggest banks failed
within in weeks of each other because they were unable to
sustain a debt burden 10 times the size of the economy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tasneem Brogger in London at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        