-- Tiger Woods, LeBron James Tie in Poll for Title of World's Best Athlete
-- Nancy Kercheval
-- 2010-04-23T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/tiger-woods-lebron-james-tie-in-poll-for-tile-of-world-s-best-athlete.html

          
          
             Golfer Tiger Woods and LeBron
James of the National Basketball Association’s Cleveland
Cavaliers tied in a survey for the title of world’s
greatest athlete.  
 Woods and James each received 10 percent of the votes
from 855 respondents in a Seton Hall Sports Poll conducted
after Woods returned to competitive golf following his
admission of marital infidelity. Woods polled 38 percent in
a Gallup poll in June 2001.  
 Woods ended his five-month break from the U.S. PGA
Tour at this month’s Masters Tournament, where the four-
time winner finished five shots behind champion Phil
Mickelson. Woods’s image was improved by the appearance,
according to 24 percent of respondents, while 53 percent
said it had no effect and 13 percent said it hurt his
image.  
 “It was not quite the coming out party that Tiger
might have hoped for, but it was, at least, a step in the
right direction,” said Poll director Rick Gentile.  
 Separately, almost two-thirds of poll respondents said
Major League Baseball has doping issues. Players are still
using performance-enhancing drugs, according to 63 percent
of those polled, while 20 percent said teams are free of
drugs.  
 More than three-fourths of respondents said they
thought baseball teams failed to sign some free agents
because they are black.  
 “At the same time that MLB honors the legacy of
Jackie Robinson with all players wearing number 42 for a
day, this is a troubling perception for them,” Gentile
said in a statement. “Likewise, despite efforts to rid the
sport of drugs, there remains an overwhelming feeling that
(performance-enhancing drugs) are still very much in use.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        