-- Tiger Woods Faces Luck of Draw for Partners at Quail Hollow Pro-Am Golf
-- Michael Buteau
-- 2010-04-23T18:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/tiger-woods-faces-luck-of-draw-for-partners-in-first-pro-am-event-of-year.html

          
          
             When Tiger Woods plays in his first
pro-am event of the year at next week’s Quail Hollow
Championship, his amateur playing partners will be determined by
the luck of the draw.  
 Unlike past years at the Charlotte tournament, when
Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning and basketball
Hall of Fame player Michael Jordan had requested to play
alongside Woods, no such arrangements have been made this year.  
 “We’ve had no requests.” tournament Director Kym Hougham
said in a telephone interview.  
 Jordan, who last month became owner of the National
Basketball Association’s Charlotte Bobcats, hasn’t decided if he
will play in this year’s pro-am on April 28, Hougham said. The
Bobcats are facing the Orlando Magic in the first round of the
NBA playoffs. Orlando has won the first two games, with Games 3
and 4 of the seven-game series scheduled for tomorrow and April
26.  
 “If the Bobcats are still in the playoffs, Michael’s not
going to play,” Hougham said. “If they are eliminated, then he
may play. We won’t know until Tuesday morning.”  
 Participants in the pro-am event, which mixes a PGA Tour
player with two amateurs over 18 holes, are limited to companies
that purchase hospitality packages for the tournament, Hougham
said. Celebrities and other professional athletes often play in
the event. Former Miami Dolphins quarterback Dan Marino is among
those expected to compete, Hougham said.  
 Partner Draft  
 Pro-am partners will be determined on April 27 during an
evening “draw party,” in which amateurs are matched with
professionals based on a designated drafting order.  
 “Tiger is going to be in the regular draw this year,”
Hougham said.  
 Hougham said he has had no discussions with Woods’s agent,
Mark Steinberg, regarding playing partners for the world’s No. 1
golfer. Woods, who took almost five months off from golf and
underwent treatment in a rehabilitation facility after admitting
to marital infidelity, will be playing in his first event since
finishing fourth at the Masters Tournament earlier this month.
The Masters doesn’t have a pro-am event.  
 This year’s Quail Hollow Championship sponsors include
Wells Fargo & Co., the biggest U.S. home lender; Coca-Cola Co.,
the world’s largest soft-drink maker; Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz
unit and Continental Airlines Inc. Wells Fargo became the
tournament’s primary sponsor after buying former title sponsor
Wachovia Bank in 2008.  
 Lost Sponsors  
 Woods recently lost a sponsorship with Gatorade, a product
of Coke rival PepsiCo Inc.. In 2008, General Motors Corp.’s
Buick brand ended its automotive-endorsement agreement with
Woods, who also has an airline sponsorship with NetJets Inc, the
luxury aviation company that Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. acquired in 1998.  
 Other possible playing partners for Woods include
representatives from Conbraco Industries Inc.’s Apollo Valves,
an 82-year-old North Carolina company which makes ball valves,
or Lance Inc., the Charlotte-based manufacturer of Cape Cod
potato chips.  
 “We don’t request pro-am partners,” Steinberg said in an
e-mail. It is “always left to each event out of respect to
their sponsors and partners. There is nothing planned for
Tiger.”  
 In one of Woods’s most recent pro-am rounds, Motorola Inc.
co-Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Jha repeated comments Woods
made criticizing the design of Liberty National Golf Club, which
was hosting the Barclays tournament in August. After the remarks
were reported in the Record newspaper of Bergen County, New
Jersey, Woods didn’t speak with print media covering the
tournament until after the third round.  
 While additional security measures are being put in place
for Woods’s appearance at Quail Hollow, Hougham declined to
discuss details.  
 “We’ve spent a lot of time on it and feel really, really
comfortable with the plan we have in place,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tiger Woods, right, hits a shot while Mark O'Meara, center, and caddie Shane Joel look on during a practice round prior to the 2010 Masters Tournament at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia, on April 7, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Redington/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Tiger Woods, right, hits a shot while Mark O'Meara, center, and caddie Shane Joel look on during a practice round prior to the 2010 Masters Tournament at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia, on April 7, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Redington/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
