-- India Cotton Shipments Ban May Affect 2.5 Million Bales, Association Says
-- Madelene Pearson
-- 2010-04-23T11:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/india-cotton-shipments-ban-may-affect-2-5-million-bales-association-says.html

          
          
             A ban on cotton shipments from
India, the world’s second-largest grower and exporter, may
affect as many as 2.5 million bales of the commodity, an
industry group said.  
 The amount is for the commodity registered for export yet
unshipped when the restriction was announced April 19, the
Cotton Association of India said in an e-mailed statement,
adding that it was “shocked” by the prohibition. The group
wants registered contracts to be allowed and the ban lifted.  
 “It is quite likely that several of such contracts will
turn into international disputes,” the group said today. “Not
only will the exporters be subjected to huge losses but they
will also face claims and arbitrations with their buyers.”  
 India this week halted registration of export contracts
until “further orders” and said those registered before April
19 need to be revalidated as it seeks to cool domestic prices
and boost supplies. The ban pushed cotton prices in New York to
a two-year high on concern reduced exports from the nation may
worsen tight global supplies.  
 Cotton futures for July delivery rose 0.5 percent to 85.22
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in after-hours electronic
trading as of 3:19 p.m. in Mumbai. The commodity rallied the
maximum allowed on April 20 after India’s ban.  
 Reliable Supplier  
 “Any change in the policy of allowing free and unhindered
exports would prove detrimental to the reputation of the country
as a reliable and continuous supplier of cotton,” Cotton
Association of India said in the statement. The ban follows the
government’s decision to impose an export duty on cotton and may
discourage cotton plantings, it said.  
 India’s Textile Commissioner will revalidate export
contracts registered before April 19, allowing shipments of
unshipped quantities on a monthly pro-rata basis, the
commissioner said in a statement that day.  
 India’s cotton output will rise to a record 25 million
bales in the year starting Aug. 1 from an estimated 23.5 million
a year earlier, a U.S. Department of Agriculture unit said in a
report on April 15.  
 “Cotton acreage which has seen a rising trend recently
will receive a setback if farmers do not receive a fair price as
per international levels as a result of the duty on exports,”
the association said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        