-- Cow Dung Carbon Credits Sought For 500,000 Farmers by India's State Bank
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-04-23T08:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/india-s-largest-bank-seeks-25-million-credits-from-cow-dung-gas.html

          
          
             State Bank of India, the nation’s
largest, plans to help farmers buy fuel-saving equipment that
could generate as many as 25 million carbon credits, potentially
one of the country’s biggest offset projects to date.  
 State Bank has agreed to lend 170 million rupees ($3.8
million) to 20,000 farmers for plants that convert cow dung and
kitchen waste into cooking gas, reducing their need to burn
fossil fuels, said I.R. Reddy, deputy general manager.  
 “We aim to expand that to 500,000 farmers over the next
three years,” Reddy said in a phone interview.  
 Soot is believed to be the biggest contributor to global
warming after carbon dioxide, according to the Worldwatch
Institute, a Washington-based independent research organization.
About 60 percent of households in the South Asian nation burn
wood, manure and crop waste for cooking and heating, according
to the Environment Ministry.  
 The farmers will receive income from selling UN-certified
emission reduction credits generated by the project to pay back
their loans, said Vishwajit Dahanukar, managing director of
Mumbai-based Managing Emissions, which arranged the deal.  
 The project may earn as many as 2.5 million credits
annually for 10 years, said Dahanukar. That would place it among
India’s top five generators of Certified Emission Reduction
credits in the period to 2020, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 The United Nations awards credits for reducing heat-
trapping gases blamed by scientists for climate change that are
traded under the Clean Development Mechanism, the world’s
second-biggest greenhouse gas market. UN CER credits traded at
13 euros on the European Climate Exchange at 9:09 a.m. London
time.  
 The State Bank project is under validation by the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the last step
before approval, according to Managing Emissions, which filed
the application for credits.  
 Soot is the black carbon left when organic material from
wood to coal to oil burns.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        