-- Indian Rupee Leads Drop in Asian Currencies This Week on Greece Debt Woes
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-04-23T06:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/indian-rupee-leads-drop-in-asian-currencies-this-week-on-greece-debt-woes.html

          
          
             India’s rupee and Malaysia’s
ringgit led Asian currencies lower this week as lingering
concern about Greece’s ability to tackle its deficit crisis
curbed demand for emerging-market assets.  
 The Dollar Index traded on ICE Futures in New York headed
for the best week since January as investors sought the relative
safety of the greenback. Asian currency losses were tempered by
reports in Taiwan and Thailand showing a recovery in exports is
gaining traction, while the International Monetary Fund said the
region will lead global economic growth this year.  
 “The key issue is concern that the Greece developments
could trigger another round of global deleveraging, although it
is very remote at this stage,” said Enrico Tanuwidjaja, a
regional economist at OSK-DMG group in Singapore. “But Asian
sentiment is positive.”  
 India’s rupee fell 0.4 percent this week to 44.5263 per
dollar as of 2:27 p.m. in Singapore, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The ringgit declined 0.4 percent to 3.2055, while
Thailand’s baht dropped 0.1 percent to 32.28.  
 The ringgit headed for a second week of losses after
Greece’s credit-rating was downgraded. The euro dropped toward
its lowest level in a year against the dollar after the European
Union raised its estimate for the Greek deficit and Moody’s
Investors Service cut the rating.  
 Yuan Speculation  
 Greece began talks this week on activating an emergency-aid
package, and the IMF called the country’s fiscal crisis a
“wake-up call” on sovereign-debt risks. The Mediterranean
nation’s deficit was 13.6 percent of gross domestic product last
year, higher than the government’s April 7 forecast of 12.9
percent, the EU’s statistics office said. The EU forecast a
shortfall of 12.7 percent in November.  
 The ringgit’s decline may be limited as the Group of 20
nations, Gathering in Washington today, will step up pressure on
China to let the yuan appreciate, said Tan Voon Ching at OSK
Investment Bank Bhd.  
 “Greece is causing the market to buy back the dollar, and
that’s slowing the momentum in the ringgit appreciation,” said
Tan, a currency trader based in Kuala Lumpur. “Yuan revaluation
remains a possibility even though China may be worried if it is
forced to tighten policy too much or too early.”  
 Asian currencies have gained this year on prospects China
will resume appreciation in its currency and as the region leads
a global recovery, helping draw investors to debt.  
 Bond Inflows  
 Emerging-market bond funds took in $1.28 billion in the
third week of April, a tally second only to the previous week’s
record $1.8 billion of inflows, EPFR Global said.  
 The debt handed investors a 5.6 percent return this year,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Diversified Index, the
broadest gauge of markets in 39 countries. U.S. Treasuries
advanced 1.5 percent and European debt rose 1.6 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s indexes.  
 Asia’s strengthening expansion, fueled by consumer spending
and investment in China and India, mean policy makers in several
countries should embrace stronger exchange rates, the IMF said
on April 21. The G-20 should discuss coordinating policies to
bolster the recovery, the fund said, having raised its forecast
for global growth this year to 4.2 percent from a January
projection of 3.9 percent.  
 Yuan forwards climbed this week on speculation the Group of
20 nations will press China to resume appreciation in the
currency.  
 “The market is expecting G-20 nations will add more
pressure on China to allow the yuan to rise,” said Liu
Dongliang, a Shenzhen-based analyst at China Merchants Bank Co.,
the country’s fifth-largest lender by market value.  
 G-20 Meeting  
 G-20 finance chiefs including U.S. Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner and European Central Bank President Jean-
Claude Trichet begin a day of talks at 9:30 a.m., with a
statement and press conferences scheduled for about 5 p.m. It is
their first meeting since September’s decision by leaders to
make the G-20 the premier forum for setting international
economic policy.  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards were at 6.6018
per dollar, up 0.3 percent from last week. The contracts reflect
bets the currency will strengthen 3.4 percent from the spot rate
of 6.8273.  
 Thailand’s baht headed for its first weekly loss this month
after grenade blasts yesterday killed three people and injured
75 others near an anti-government protest site in Bangkok.  
 Overseas investors sold 138 million baht ($4.3 million)
more domestic shares than they bought yesterday, according to
stock-exchange data.  
 “There is real uncertainty over when and how the protests
will end, boosting concern about the impact on the economy and
putting downward pressure on the baht,” said Minori Uchida, a
senior analyst at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in Tokyo.
“The worsening situation has also led to concern foreigners
will pull money out from the country.”  
 Elsewhere in Asia this week, Indonesia’s rupiah and the
Philippine peso each slipped 0.1 percent against the dollar to
9,015 and 44.42, respectively. The Singapore dollar dropped 0.1
percent to S$1.3742. Vietnam’s dong rose 0.4 percent to 18,975.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Lui at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        