-- Interest-Rate Swap Spreads May Widen as Treasury Supply Is Cut, RBS Says
-- Liz Capo McCormick
-- 2010-04-23T18:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/interest-rate-swap-spreads-may-widen-as-treasury-supply-is-cut-rbs-says.html

          
          
             A probable reduction in the size of
U.S. government debt sales will likely reverse a collapse of
U.S. interest-rate swap spreads, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  
 Swap spreads, the difference between the rate to exchange
fixed- for floating- interest rates payments and yields on
comparable Treasury securities, have shrunk amid record U.S.
debt sales and concern that governments worldwide may be unable
to finance deficits. The 10-year swap spread turned negative in
March for the first time, touching a record negative 10.19 basis
points before reversing course. It was 0.03 basis point today.  
 Cuts in debt supply may begin as soon as next month when
the U.S. announces the details of its quarterly refunding,
according to RBS. The firm, one of 18 primary dealers that are
required to bid at Treasury auctions, lowered its estimate of
the U.S. budget deficit for fiscal 2010 to $1.3 trillion from
$1.5 trillion. The narrower shortfall may lead the government to
cut coupon issuance by about $90 billion between now and
September, it said.  
 “The impending reductions in Treasury coupon issuance
represent a major shift in the fundamentals driving quality
spreads” such as swap and agency-Treasury spreads, William
O’Donnell, head of U.S. government bond strategy at Royal Bank’s
RBS Securities in Stamford, Connecticut, wrote in a note April
20. “As the economy and tax receipts recover, and Treasury
supply begins to ebb, spreads should normalize as well.”  
 Credit Risk  
 Swap rates are typically higher than Treasury yields as the
floating payments are based on interest rates, such as the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, that contain credit
risk. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  
 The Treasury asked bond dealers today to suggest the best
way to shrink the size of its long-term debt auctions as the
economy recovers and the government no longer needs to expand
its borrowing.  
 “Debt managers are contemplating a reduction in coupon
sizes as the fiscal outlook improves,” the department asked in
a quarterly survey. “How should Treasury accomplish such a
reduction?”  
 The agenda for April 30 meetings with dealers shows the
department’s effort to watch for market disruptions and manage
record borrowing.  
 The U.S. will sell $44 billion in two-year notes, $42
billion in five-year securities, $32 billion in debt maturing in
seven years and $11 billion in five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities next week. The auctions will be held on
four consecutive days beginning April 26.  
 President Barack Obama has increased U.S. marketable debt
to an unprecedented $7.76 trillion to fund a budget deficit the
government predicts will swell to $1.6 trillion in the fiscal
year ending Sept. 30.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        