-- Lions Gate Amends Shareholder Rights Proposal to Let Icahn Vote
-- Ronald Grover
-- 2010-04-23T22:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/lions-gate-entertainment-amends-poison-pill-plan-to-let-carl-icahn-vote.html

          
          
             Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. said
its board amended a “poison pill” shareholder rights proposal,
and that proxy advisers Glass Lewis & Co. and Egan-Jones Proxy
Services recommended investors vote for the plan.  
 The change will let hostile suitor Carl Icahn, who holds
almost 19 percent of the stock, vote his shares at a May 4
shareholder meeting on the plan, Lions Gate said in a regulatory
filing today. The company said it made the change on the
recommendation of a special board committee and other advisers.  
 Icahn, who is offering $7 a share for Vancouver-based Lions
Gate, received support from proxy advisers Riskmetrics Group
Inc. and Proxy Governance Inc. Icahn urged investors to vote
against the independent film studio’s efforts to make a hostile
takeover more expensive.  
 The views of Riskmetrics and Proxy Governance are at odds
with those from Glass Lewis and Egan-Jones, which support Lions
Gate management and the takeover defense they put in place March
12. Icahn’s offer values the company at about $826 million.  
 The poison pill, designed to make a hostile takeover more
difficult, would bar investors from accepting certain partial
bids and grants the board too much discretion, Riskmetrics said,
according to statement issued by Icahn.  
 “The board’s action in implementing this reactionary
rights plan raises some troubling concerns about its motivations
and attention to shareholder rights,” Proxy Governance said.
“The board has not provided compelling evidence of a need for
this plan.”  
 Lions Gate, run from Santa Monica, California, rose 29
cents to $7.18 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have gained 24 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        