-- Mirae Picks India Private Banks to Lead Gain, Says `Easy Money' Days Ended
-- Rajhkumar K Shaaw
-- 2010-04-23T11:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/mirae-picks-india-private-banks-to-lead-gain-says-easy-money-days-ended.html

          
          
             India equity investors should buy
private banks and shift focus to individual stocks as “most of
the easy money has been made,” according to Mirae Asset Global
Investments (India) Pvt.  
 Financial services companies will lead gains, benefiting
from higher spending by companies and consumers, said Gopal
Agrawal, head of equities at the local office of Mirae Asset
Financial Group, which has $2.5 billion invested in India. He
declined to name any stocks, citing his company’s policy.  
 “Indian companies are likely to borrow more to increase
their capacities and meet working capital requirements as
commodities prices are rising,” said Agrawal, whose Mirae Asset
India Opportunities Fund beat 94 percent of 446 growth equity
funds focused on India over the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive Index,
which tracks the 30 largest companies in India, has gained 1.2
percent this year following 2009’s 81 percent rally, the biggest
in 18 years. ICICI Bank Ltd., Agrawal’s second-largest holding
according to Bloomberg data, has climbed 11 percent this year,
extending the 96 percent surge in 2009.  
 Central Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao this week estimated
India’s $1.2 trillion economy, Asia’s largest after Japan and
China, will expand 8 percent “with an upward bias” in the year
ending March 31.  
 “Consumer financing will increase as people may borrow
more to buy homes and cars as their income is rising,” Agrawal
said. Salary increases of Indian professionals will boost
consumption, he said.  
 ICICI Bank  
 ICICI Bank, the biggest non-state lender, was the top
gainer on the Sensex today, rising 3.6 percent to 977.7 rupees.
HDFC Bank Ltd., the second largest non-state lender by market
value, advanced 0.9 percent to 1,951.8 rupees.  
 Agrawal, 37, said India’s medium-sized companies are the
best bets for investors seeking to profit from an expanding
economy.  
 “This is not a year of index performance, this is a year
of stock performance,” he said. “Most of the easy money has
been made, and now one has to focus on stocks and sectors,” he
said. One has to be “at the right sector” and in “the right
stock” to make money, he said.  
 Companies with market values of between $112 million and
$2.5 billion have “some hidden gems” as “not much steam is
left” in the nation’s biggest stocks, he said.  
 Fluctuate  
 The Sensex may fluctuate between 15,000 and 20,000 as new
share sales raising as much as $35 billion and accelerating
inflation counter the outlook for earnings and improving
investor sentiment, Rashesh Shah, chairman and chief executive
officer of Edelweiss Capital Ltd., said April 14. The Sensex
today rose 0.7 percent to 17,694.2.  
 Mirae owns shares of Amara Raja Ltd., the Indian automotive
battery maker part-owned by Johnson Controls Inc., and Reliance
Industries Ltd., India’s most valuable company.  
 Amara Raja has a market capitalization of $338 million and
its shares have climbed more than threefold in the past year.
Reliance, with a market value of $80 billion, has gained 24
percent in the same period.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        