-- MIT Economist Duflo Wins John Bates Clark Medal for Development Economics
-- Rich Miller
-- 2010-04-23T18:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/mit-economist-duflo-wins-john-bates-clark-medal-for-development-economics.html

          
          
             Esther Duflo, a professor at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, won the John Bates Clark
medal for the economist under the age of 40 who contributed most
to the profession.  
 Duflo, 37, “distinguished herself through definitive
contributions to the field of development economics,” the
American Economic Association said today in a statement. A
French citizen, she has used experiments to address questions of
politics, gender and education in developing countries such as
India and South Africa.  
 “Her work is of scientific importance but also shows a
passion for caring about people,” said Kenneth Rogoff, former
chief economist at the International Monetary Fund in Washington
who is now a professor at Harvard University in Cambridge,
Massachusetts. “She is a profoundly influential figure for
young economists.”  
 In one series of papers, Duflo studied the impact of female
political leaders in villages in India, finding, among other
things, that they shifted spending away from education toward
drinking water, the association said.  
 In other research with Rohini Pande of Harvard that the
association said had “generated considerable popular
attention,” Duflo examined the effects of dam construction on
development in India. Their results suggested that the large
dams had “marginally positive returns to the entire economy”
while increasing poverty and income inequality, it said.  
 ‘Flexible Tool’  
 “What her work has done is to take the idea of field
experiments and turn it into an extremely flexible tool to study
a range of fundamental economic questions,” said Abhijit
Banerjee, a fellow professor at MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
who has done research with Duflo.  
 He said their work on microfinance had caused a stir after
they found that such lending “did not have the kind of
transformative impact that has been claimed for it” and that
its effects, while favorable, were limited.  
 Duflo completed her undergraduate studies at L’Ecole
Normale Supérieure in Paris in 1994, received a master’s degree
from DELTA in Paris in 1995, and completed a PhD in Economics at
MIT in 1999. She is founder and director of the Jameel Poverty
Action Lab, a research network specializing in evaluations of
social programs.  
 Past winners of the John Bates Clark award include the late
Milton Friedman; New York Times columnist and Princeton
University professor Paul Krugman; and Lawrence Summers, who is
director of President Barack Obama’s National Economic Council.
Data compiled by Bloomberg News show that recipients of the
medal have a 36 percent chance of eventually winning the Nobel
Prize in economics.  
 The John Bates Clark medal, started in 1947 as a biennial
award, is now being awarded annually. It is named after the U.S.
economist who died in 1938 after spending most of his career
teaching at Columbia University in New York.  
 Emmanuel Saez, a professor at the University of California
in Berkeley, who has done extensive work on income inequality,
won the award last year. In work he did with Duflo, they used
field experiments to study enrollment in U.S. pension plans.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        