-- Janus's Intech to Revise Stock-Picking After $6.7 Billion in Withdrawals
-- Miles Weiss
-- 2010-04-23T21:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/janus-s-intech-to-revise-stock-picking-after-6-7-billion-in-withdrawals.html

          
          
             Janus Capital Group Inc. plans to
tweak the stock-picking process at its Intech unit after a net
$6.7 billion in client withdrawals from the quantitative-fund
manager during the past six months.  
 Janus, based in Denver, disclosed in an April 21 regulatory
filing that four mutual funds overseen by Intech Investment
Management will “begin implementing adjustments to the
parameters utilized to select stocks” through mathematical
models. The move, effective July 1, will alter “portfolio
composition,” according to the filing.  
 The company reported yesterday that none of the Intech
funds beat their benchmark indexes during the past year. Clients
withdrew a net $4.3 billion from the Intech funds during the
first quarter after pulling out $2.4 billion at the end of 2009,
overshadowing improved performance and asset growth at Janus and
Perkins funds.  
 “From a marketing perspective, they need to differentiate
their process going forward in order to stem the tide of these
outflows,” said Andrew Lo, a finance professor at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Sloan School of
Management in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  
 “My guess is they are revising parameters to address the
kinds of spikes in volatility that investors are not really
signed up for,” said Lo, who also helps run a global macro
hedge fund as the chief investment strategist for AlphaSimplex
Group LLC in Cambridge.  
 Assets at Intech, formerly known as Enhanced Investment
Technologies LLC, fell to $45.9 billion as of March 31 from
$69.7 billion at the end of 2007. Intech’s math-driven
investment process is designed to capitalize on volatility in
stock prices.  
 New Parameters  
 The subsidiary will revise the selection parameters for its
group of risk-managed core, growth, international and value
funds, according to the documents filed with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  
 The changes may address relative volatility, risk control
and tracking error, according to James Aber, a Janus spokesman.  
 “This has nothing to do with returns or flows or anything
like that,” Aber said in an interview. Intech “has made
enhancements over the entire 20 years-plus of the firm.”  
 While the adjustments may result in additional risk, the
“mathematical process remains unchanged” and the funds will
still seek to beat benchmark indexes with equal or lesser risk,
the company said in its filing.  
 Intech Risk-Managed Growth, the largest of the four funds
with about $828 million in assets as of March 31, rose 34
percent in 2009, trailing 52 percent of its peers. The
international fund, which had about $8 million in assets,
trailed 79 percent of similar funds last year with a 26 percent
return.  
 ‘Chaotic’ Conditions  
 In a conference call held yesterday to discuss Janus’s
first-quarter results, Chief Executive Officer Richard Weil said
Intech and other mathematical managers faced “particularly
challenging, disrupted and chaotic market conditions,”
according to a transcript of his remarks. He said Janus would
explore ways to increase its focus on risk-adjusted returns.  
 Many quantitative funds underperformed during both the
stock-market crash of 2008 and the rebound that took hold in
March 2009, said A. Michael Lipper, the head of Lipper Advisory
Services Inc., a Summit, New Jersey, investment adviser. The
problem stemmed from their reliance on historical data to pick
stocks, he said.  
 “These models are based on market experience that was not
what the market was actually experiencing,” Lipper said. “The
decline that started in 2007 and bottomed in March of 2009 was
very different than anything people had ever seen.”  
 Intech, which has offices in Princeton, New Jersey, and
West Palm Beach, Florida, was acquired by Janus in 2002.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        