-- Japan Confirms First Foot-And-Mouth Outbreak in Decade; Cattle Slaughter
-- Jae Hur
-- 2010-04-23T07:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/japan-confirms-first-foot-and-mouth-outbreak-in-decade-cattle-slaughtered.html

          
          
             Japan confirmed an outbreak of
foot-and-mouth disease at a farm in the southern prefecture of
Miyazaki, the first outbreak since 2000 in the country that is
famous for premium beef.  
 A final test by the National Institute of Animal Health on
three cows suspected of contracting the disease at the farm
were positive, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries said in a statement today on its Web site. It has
imposed a ban on beef exports since April 20.  
 Since finding the first suspected case, Japan has reported
three more at nearby farms. The virus is one of the most
contagious animal diseases and can have high mortality rates in
young animals, according to the World Organization for Animal
Health, or OIE. Eating infected meat doesn’t harm humans.  
 “The outbreak may have little impact on the Japanese beef
market, including demand,” said Susumu Harada, senior director
at the U.S. Meat Export Federation in Tokyo. Still, “exporters
of meat and by-products may have difficulty as the country
banned exports.”  
 Japanese consumers are not that concerned about the
outbreak as the government has been reiterating that meat from
infected cows is safe, Harada said. The ministry has restricted
movement of animals and local authorities have been
slaughtering cattle at the farms and disinfecting the area, it
said.  
 Export Ban  
 Japan exported 594 metric tons of beef from April 2009 to
February 2010 and imported 432,613 tons. Export markets for
Japan’s premium beef include Vietnam, Hong Kong, the U.S. and
Singapore, according to ministry data.  
 So-called “wagyu” meat, also known as Kobe-style beef,
is known for its flavor and tenderness and is often priced at a
premium to other cuts.  
 “This won’t cause big damage to the livestock industry,”
said Hiroyuki Kikukawa, general manager of research at Tokyo-
based IDO Securities Co., highlighting the limited impact of
the last outbreak. Still, “we may see some impact on animal-
feed demand,” Kikukawa said.  
 Japan’s last outbreak of the disease was in 2000, when the
country slaughtered 740 cattle, according to Katsumi Yorita,
deputy director at the ministry’s livestock industry policy
planning division.  
 In April 2000, Souichi Kagawa, then executive director of
the Japan Livestock Industry Association, said Japan’s first
outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in 92 years had been
contained and caused little damage to the country’s 500 billion
yen ($4.8 billion) domestic beef industry.  
 In South Korea, the farm ministry said yesterday that two
cases were found at a pig farm in Chungju, south of Seoul,
indicating the virus has spread inland. A new outbreak was
discovered on April 9 on Ganghwa island, less than a month
after the nation declared itself free of the disease.  
 China in March reported an outbreak of the disease in pigs.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        