-- TMK to Increase Pipe Output 20% on Demand From U.S. Shale-Gas Producers
-- Ilya Khrennikov
-- 2010-04-23T07:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/tmk-to-increase-pipe-output-20-on-demand-from-u-s-shale-gas-producers.html

          
          
             OAO TMK, Russia’s largest pipe
maker, plans to increase output by at least 20 percent this year
on higher demand from U.S. shale-gas producers and is raising
Russian prices to compensate for higher raw-material costs.  
 “The growth at our U.S. unit will probably be higher due
to the shale gas boom,” Vladimir Shmatovich, TMK’s deputy chief
executive officer for strategy, said in an interview. “Shale-
gas developments are an exciting opportunity for us as they
demand more pipes of higher quality and price.”  
 Production is rebounding at the Moscow-based company’s TMK-
IPSCO operation in the U.S., which it acquired in 2008 for $1.7
billion. The utilization of capacity at the unit will rise to 70
to 80 percent in 2010 after falling to less than 50 percent in
the past year.  
 TMK said today its 2009 net loss was $324 million compared
with net income of $198.5 million a year earlier. It’s supplying
one-third of premium connections, the most expensive part of
pipes, needed by U.S. shale gas producers, Shmatovich said.  
 Gas locked in shale formations will account for 50 percent
of U.S. supply by 2035, up from 20 percent today, IHS Cambridge
Energy Research Associates said in a study in March. Shale gas
is produced by a technique known as hydraulic fracturing, in
which millions of gallons of chemically treated water are forced
into wells to break up rock and allow gas to flow.  
 Antidumping Duty?  
 “TMK-IPSCO may benefit if U.S. and Canada introduce an
antidumping duty on Chinese pipes, which may happen this
quarter,” he said.  
 TMK plans to increase large-diameter pipe output in Russia
by 70 to 80 percent this year, up from 309,000 metric tons
produced last year, Shmatovich said. That’s possible after TMK
started up a new mill in Volzhsky last year and Russian pipeline
monopolies OAO Gazprom and OAO Transneft increased demand for
pipes, he said.  
 TMK is increasing prices for Russian oil companies by 10 to
15 percent this month after earlier gains in the price of steel
scrap, a raw material used in pipe production, Shmatovich said.
TMK sells pipes in the U.S. on a spot basis and has announced a
number of price increases since December, he said.  
 “The major concern is TMK’s dependence on raw-material
prices,” said Olga Danilenko, an analyst at VTB Capital in
Moscow. “Prices for scrap used in seamless pipe production rose
by 60 percent since mid-2009, when TMK last revised its pipes
prices” in Russia.  
 TMK refinanced some of its $3.5 billion debt by selling
convertible bonds in February. The short-term portion of its
debt dropped to 19 percent, from 45 percent in June, by
extending a loan from Russia’s VTB Bank OJSC and the sale of
convertibles, Shmatovich said.  
 “The company may consider further refinancing in the
second half of 2010,” he said. TMK has 30 billion rubles ($1
billion) of exchange-traded bonds registered and ready for sale
when needed, he said. It may consider selling eurobonds,
Shmatovich said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        