-- Senate's Climate Compromise Dodges `Cap and Trade'
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-04-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/kerry-graham-lieberman-climate-compromise-emerges-after-year-of-bargaining.html

          
          
             Three senators trying to craft a
compromise to remake the U.S. energy economy thought they had a
way around the oil industry’s opposition to a “cap-and-trade”
system for greenhouse-gas emissions.  
 Their proposal for an oil fee linked to prices on a carbon
market was outlined by the senators on March 25. The idea had to
be scrapped after opposition by colleagues to anything
resembling a “gas tax” in an election year, according to
Senator Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat.  
 A new solution to the oil-fee quandary was being negotiated
yesterday by Senators John Kerry, Lindsey Graham and Joe
Lieberman as they try to revive stalled efforts to pass
legislation aimed at curbing global warming. The senators, who
said they will outline their proposal publicly on April 26, have
faced dozens of such challenges in the past year as they sought
to win over both businesses and environmental advocates.  
 “If you go too far in one direction it could jeopardize my
support, and I’m a strong proponent of this legislation,”
Senator Ben Cardin, a Maryland Democrat whose concerns include
the effects of offshore drilling on his coastal state, said in
an interview.  
 The measure by Democrat Kerry of Massachusetts, Republican
Graham of South Carolina and independent Joe Lieberman of
Connecticut will scale back legislation that passed the U.S.
House of Representatives last year. Instead of a cap-and-trade
program covering almost every part of the U.S. economy, as the
House proposed, only power plants would be covered initially.
Other industries such as manufacturers would be phased in later.  
 Among provisions being weighed for the Kerry-Lieberman-
Graham measure are the following, according to people familiar
with the plan who asked not to be identified in advance of the
announcement:  
 REDUCTION TARGETS: The bill will incorporate President
Barack Obama’s goal of cutting U.S. greenhouse gases 17 percent
by 2020 from 2005 levels, and 80 percent by 2050.  
 CAP-AND-TRADE: A cap-and-trade program would initially
apply only to electric-power utilities. The market would enable
companies to buy and sell rights to pollute and would be
expanded later to manufacturers.  
 The utility-only emissions trading won’t be called “cap
and trade” because that has “become a dirty word,” Joseph
Aldy, an energy and economic adviser to Obama, said at an energy
conference this month in Washington.  
 A price collar would be established to limit fluctuations
in the price of carbon dioxide. The goal would be to keep prices
at about $10 to $30 per ton. The bill also would call for
consumer rebates to help people offset higher electricity
prices.  
 How pollution permits would be allocated to polluters may
be deferred for later.  
 OIL INDUSTRY: The latest proposal being considered would
give the oil industry free pollution allowances that would
expire by a certain date, after which allowances would have to
be purchased. The Congressional Budget Office would be called
upon to certify the mechanism wasn’t a tax.  
 PREEMPTION: State and regional cap-and-trade programs, such
as one that operates in the U.S. Northeast, would be suspended
in favor of a federal emissions-trading system. Senators
including Susan Collins, a Maine Republican, and Mark Udall, a
Colorado Democrat, say they oppose such a state preemption.  
 The legislation also would bar the Environmental Protection
Agency from regulating carbon emissions. The agency last year
began the process of establishing regulations.  
 OFFSETS: The bill is likely to include carbon offsets.
These are emissions reductions from unregulated sources, such as
farms and rainforests, that polluters can purchase in lieu of
pollution permits in a cap-and-trade program.  
 Offsets are critical to securing business support because
the U.S. energy industry won’t be able to make big pollution
reductions until cleaner technologies are proven to be cost-
effective, James Rogers, the chief executive officer of Duke
Energy Corp. and a supporter of climate-change legislation, said
in an interview. Some lawmakers oppose offsets that would allow
money to be spent on pollution cuts outside the U.S., Senator
Bernie Sanders, a Vermont independent, said in an interview.  
 “It’s very hard to explain to an American citizen that
we’re giving some company an offset and it’s going to result in
an investment in another country,” he said.  
 TRADE: The bill would offer protections for energy-
intensive businesses against losing out to imports from
countries that don’t have equally stringent pollution
restrictions.  
 NUCLEAR: The legislation may add to federal loan guarantees
aimed at expanding the U.S. nuclear energy industry. Graham has
called the nuclear provisions the “crown jewel” of the bill.  
 DRILLING: Expansion of oil and gas drilling off parts of
Alaska and portions of the East Coast would be included, in
keeping with a proposal by Obama. The bill may call for states
to share in some of the state revenue generated from drilling,
an issue that divides lawmakers.  
 COAL: Federal money would be offered to help coal companies
develop clean technology, including “carbon capture and
sequestration.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     John Kerry, a Democrat from Massachusetts and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, listens during a hearing on global health in Washington, D.C., on March 10, 2010.  Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    


 
     
         
             Chart:  Cap-And-Trade Explained
         
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
