-- MTN May Raise Debt for Orascom Abroad as South Africa `Crowds Out' Sales
-- Janice Kew
-- 2010-04-23T13:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/mtn-may-raise-debt-for-orascom-abroad-as-south-africa-crowds-out-sales.html

          
          
             MTN Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest
mobile-phone company, may be forced to go abroad to raise $5
billion in debt for acquisitions as government borrowing
“crowds out” its ability to tap the local capital markets,
Investec Asset Management said.  
 “It’s almost impossible to raise that amount of money in
the domestic market given the wall of issuance coming from
state-owned entities,” said Marshall Brown, a credit analyst
who helps oversee about $65 billion at Investec Asset Management
in Cape Town. “My sense is that they’d look at a mixture of
share capital issuance and offshore debt” as borrowing from the
government and state-owned companies “crowds out” MTN from
raising debt locally, he said.  
 MTN has approached banks to fund purchases of units from
Egypt’s Orascom Telecom Holding SAE in a deal that may be worth
as much as $10 billion, people with knowledge of the plan said
yesterday. The company has started talks “that may lead to a
transaction,” MTN, which failed to conclude a $23 billion
merger with India’s Bharti Airtel Ltd. for a second time last
year, said today in a regulatory statement.  
 Excluding state-owned companies, South Africa’s government
is seeking to raise almost 160 billion rand ($21 billion) in
domestic debt in the current fiscal year to help finance a
budget deficit expected to reach 6.2 percent of gross domestic
product. State-owned utility Eskom, which supplies 95 percent of
South Africa’s power, is also in need of 45 billion rand to
remedy a shortfall in funding for a 460 billion rand expansion.  
 “It’s highly unlikely MTN would try and raise money
locally,” Rudi van der Merwe, the chief investment officer at
Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s private equity-advisory unit, said in
a telephone interview. “It’s quite a big bite for the domestic
market.”  
 Local Debt  
 MTN’s ability to raise finance in South Africa will also be
constrained by 5 billion rand of existing local-currency debt,
which matures on July 13. The 10.01 percent fixed-rate
securities are rated AA-(zaf) by Fitch Ratings.  
 “Their ability to fund in the local bond market is
probably zero given the 5 billion rand of refinancing of
domestic currency debt that’s due in July,” Brown said.
“That’s quite a chunky number,” he said.  
 The mobile operator, which earns almost two-thirds of its
revenue from abroad, is also likely to favor offshore debt
markets over those of South Africa in order to avoid being hurt
by swings in the rand, said van der Merwe. South Africa’s
currency rallied 28 percent last year, following a more than 27
percent slump in 2008.  
 “They have plenty of cash flow to pay back debt, but if
it’s dollar based I would think they would not want to raise it
locally,” said van der Merwe. “They’d rather repay dollar-
based debt in dollar earnings from a dollar-based market.”  
 MTN spokeswoman Nozipho January-Bardill said the company
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        