-- MTN Transaction With Orascom More `Palatable' Than Abandoned Bharti Merger
-- Janice Kew
-- 2010-04-23T15:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/mtn-says-it-has-started-talks-that-may-or-may-not-lead-to-a-transaction.html

          
          
             A simple acquisition by MTN Group
Ltd. of units owned by Egypt’s Orascom Telecom Holding SAE may
have a better chance of success than the complex Bharti Airtel
Ltd. merger the South African company abandoned last year, an
MTN investor said.  
 MTN approached banks for $5 billion to help fund the
acquisition of units from Orascom in a deal that may be worth as
much as $10 billion, people with knowledge of the plan said
yesterday. Johannesburg-based MTN said today that it has started
unspecified talks that may or may not lead to a transaction.
Separately, Orascom, the Middle East’s largest mobile-phone
company, today asked that its global depositary shares in London
be suspended pending an announcement.  
 “It seems more palatable than Bharti,” said Steve
Minnaar, a fund manager with Cape Town-based Abax Investments
Ltd., which manages the equivalent of $5.1 billion, including
MTN stock. “It looks like they could do a simpler, cleaner
deal. It was hard to see obvious value-creation in the Bharti
deal.”  
 MTN and India’s Bharti failed for the second time last year
to conclude a $23 billion merger that would have created the
world’s third-largest mobile phone company by subscribers. The
transaction would have been done in two steps, with Bharti
getting a 49 percent stake in MTN in a cash and stock offer and
MTN acquiring a 36 percent holding in the New Delhi operator.  
 “It all depends on price” as no details on a transaction
has been made public yet, Minnaar said. A tie-up with Orascom
will be “good for diversification for MTN” to reduce its
reliance on South Africa and Nigeria, he said.  
 Market Share  
 MTN wants to add new markets to its 21 businesses across
the Middle East and Africa while also consolidating its position
on the continent after Bharti on March 30 said it bid $9 billion
for 15 of Zain’s African assets.  
 “MTN has penetrated its markets so well already that it
now needs to steal market share from somewhere else,” said
Garth Mackenzie, a derivatives trader at Imara S.P. Reid in
Johannesburg. “This deal would not be as big a deal as Bharti
may have been and so may have a better chance of flying.”  
 MTN rose 2.3 percent to 110 rand in Johannesburg, paring
yesterday’s 2.6 percent drop. Markets in Egypt are closed today
for the weekend.  
 Orascom operates in North Korea, Bangladesh, Pakistan,
Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Central African Republic, Burundi
Namibia and Zimbabwe.  
 Orascom is reviewing all its options regarding its Algerian
business following a tax dispute with authorities in the
country, Morgan Stanley analysts, including Sean Gardiner and
Madhvendra Singh, said in a note yesterday. Orascom Chairman
Naguib Sawiris said on April 20 that the company has been
blocked from moving its Algerian division’s profit out of the
country.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net 
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        