-- N.Y. Subway Bomb-Plot Suspect Will Plead Guilty
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-04-23T15:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/new-york-subway-bomb-plot-suspect-ahmedzay-said-to-plan-guilty-plea-today.html

          
          
             Zarein Ahmedzay, accused of
conspiring with admitted terrorist Najibullah Zazi in an al-
Qaeda plot to detonate bombs on New York subways, will plead
guilty today in federal court.  
 U.S. prosecutors accused Ahmedzay and Adis Medunjanin, both
25, of helping plan an attack on Sept. 14, Sept. 15 or Sept. 16.
Ahmedzay will enter a guilty plea later today in U.S. District
Court in Brooklyn, New York, court records show.  
 Ahmedzay, of Queens, New York, was charged in February with
working with Zazi from September 2008 to last September. Zazi
admitted on Feb. 22 that he provided material support to al-
Qaeda and planned to use a weapon of mass destruction on the
subway system.  
 U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder called the plot one of
“the most serious terror threats to the U.S. since the Sept. 11
attacks” when he spoke at a news conference after Zazi’s guilty
plea.  
 Ahmedzay’s name appeared on a revised court schedule
released today for a “criminal cause for pleading”
before U.S. Magistrate Judge Steven Gold. Ahmedzay’s lawyer,
Michael Marinaccio, didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail
message left at his office seeking comment.  
 Al-Qaeda Training  
 Zazi, also 25, pleaded guilty Feb. 22 to supporting al-
Qaeda and conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction in a
plot which he called a “martyrdom operation.”  
 Zazi said during his guilty plea that the foiled plot
directed by al-Qaeda leadership, was to explode multiple bombs
in Manhattan.  
 “The plan was to conduct a martyrdom operation on the New
York subway lines,” Zazi told U.S. District Judge Raymond
Dearie in Brooklyn.  
 U.S. officials have refused to say if Zazi was cooperating
with authorities in their investigation. Days after Zazi pleaded
guilty, prosecutors in the office of Brooklyn U.S. Attorney
Benton Campbell filed new charges against Ahmedzay and
Medunjanin of plotting with Zazi in the foiled attack.  
 January Arrests  
 Zazi, who once lived in Queens and later moved to Denver
where he worked as an airport shuttle-van driver, was originally
arrested in September, charged with training at an al-Qaeda
terrorist camp and conspiring to detonate an improvised
explosive device in New York. He faces as long as life in prison
when sentenced on June 25.  
 Medunjanin and Ahmedzay have been in custody since their
arrests in January. Medunjanin was ordered held without bail
after authorities said he received military training from al-
Qaeda. Ahmedzay was charged at the time with making false
statements to federal agents for failing to disclose all the
locations he visited during a trip to Pakistan and Afghanistan.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Knox said in February at
the time of Zazi’s guilty plea additional “overseas”
defendants are “likely” to be charged and that the government
may also bring more charges against Ahmedzay and Medunjanin.  
 Knox also said the men planned “three coordinated suicide
bombings on Manhattan subways” that he said in “type of
explosion and manner of attack” were similar to al-Qaeda’s
London subway bombing in July 2005 that killed at least 50
people and injured 700.  
 Prosecutors say both men flew with Zazi to Qatar and
Pakistan in August 2008 and that all three men received
“military” training from al-Qaeda over the following three
months.  
 Queens Search  
 Authorities said they found bomb-making instructions on a
laptop in Zazi’s possession, including a recipe for an explosive
intended for use in the 2001 plot to blow up an airplane by
convicted “shoe bomber” Richard Reid. The FBI said previously
in court papers that Zazi conspired with at least three others.  
 Earlier this month, a person with knowledge of the case
said a fourth person was arrested in Pakistan in connection with
subway bombing plot. It was unclear when that individual would
be brought to New York for prosecution, the person said.  
 The case is U.S. v. Ahmedzay, 10-cr-019, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Brooklyn, New York,
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        