-- N.Y. Subway Bomb Plot Figure Ahmedzay Pleads Guilty, Faces Life Sentence
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-04-23T23:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/new-york-subway-plot-suspect-ahmedzay-pleads-guilty-to-aiding-terrorists.html

          
          
             A former New York City taxi driver
pleaded guilty to conspiring with admitted terrorist Najibullah
Zazi in an al-Qaeda plot to conduct suicide bombings in the
city’s subways last September.  
 Zarein Ahmedzay, 25, an immigrant from Afghanistan, faces
as long as life in prison after admitting in federal court to
charges of conspiracy and providing material support to a
foreign terrorist organization. The bombings were to occur last
year around the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks.  
 Ahmedzay gave new details of the foiled plot today, telling
a U.S. magistrate judge in Brooklyn, New York, that he consulted
with three al-Qaeda leaders in Pakistan in 2008 and that
terrorist leaders at first asked him to attack “critical, well-
known structures” in New York City. The plan was for an attack
during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, he said.  
 “I am thankful for myself that I did not do anything to
harm anyone,” Ahmedzay said. “I fear someone else might do the
same thing. I believe the real enemies of this country are the
ones who are destroying this country from within -- a special
group, the Zionist Jews I believe who want a permanent shadow
government within the government of the United States of
America.”  
 Pakistan, Qatar  
 Ahmedzay, a naturalized U.S. citizen, told U.S. Magistrate
Judge Steven Gold that he, Zazi and a third man traveled to
Qatar and Pakistan in August 2008 in an attempt to reach
Afghanistan. They intended to “conduct jihad against the
America occupier,” he said.  
 Zazi, also 25, pleaded guilty Feb. 22 to supporting al-
Qaeda and conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction in a
plot which he called a “martyrdom operation.”  
 Zazi said during his plea that the foiled plot was to
explode multiple bombs in Manhattan subways. Federal prosecutors
in Brooklyn in February indicted Ahmedzay and Adis Medunjanin,
also 25, of helping in the foiled attack which Zazi said was to
occur on Sept. 14, Sept. 15 or Sept. 16.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Knox told the judge during
today’s plea that Ahmedzay met with Saleh al Somali, who he said
was al-Qaeda’s chief of external operations, and Rashid Rauf,
who he said was a key operative of the group, in Pakistan in
2008. Somali was killed in a U.S. drone strike in 2009,
authorities said.  
 Alleged Mastermind  
 Rauf was described by authorities in 2008 as the alleged
mastermind of a 2006 tran-Atlantic airplane bombing plot. He was
killed in a U.S. missile strike in the North Waziristan region
of Pakistan in November 2008.  
 Ahmedzay said terrorist leaders seized upon his familiarity
with New York’s streets.  
 “I was a New York City taxi driver and I knew the city
very well. They said the most important point was to hit well-
known structures and maximize the number of casualties,” he
said.  
 Ahmedzay, who his lawyer, Michael Marinaccio, said is
married with two children in Afghanistan, told Magistrate Gold
that he his co-defendants received weapons training in the
Waziristan region of Pakistan.  
 Zazi returned to the terrorist camp alone to receive bomb-
making instruction from al-Qaeda leaders.  
 Ramadan Plot  
 Ahmedzay said he and his codefendants later decided to
change their plan and attack the subway system, based on the
amount of explosives Zazi decided they could produce by Ramadan.  
 “Because of the amount of explosives he believed he could
make, Zazi and I decided the three of us would conduct suicide
attacks on subway trains, rather than targeting large
structures, like a building,” Ahmedzay told the magistrate.
“All three of us agreed on this plan.”  
 Zazi, who lived in Queens, New York, before moving to
Denver, where he worked as an airport van driver, said during
his plea hearing that the aim was to explode multiple bombs in
Manhattan.  
 Ahmedzay could face life in prison when he is sentenced
July 30 by U.S. District Judge Raymond Dearie in Brooklyn.  
 During his guilty plea, Ahmedzay quoted a verse from the
Koran which cited “the price of paradise.”  
 “They fight in the way of Allah, they kill and get
killed,” he said. “It is a promise binding on him in truth.”  
 He said he and Zazi disposed of detonators and chemicals
for the bombs in Queens, after they became suspicious that law
enforcement authorities were aware of their actions.  
 Zazi faces as long as life in prison when sentenced on June
25.  
 Authorities said they found bomb-making instructions on a
laptop in Zazi’s possession, including a recipe for an explosive
intended for use in the 2001 plot to blow up an airplane by
convicted “shoe bomber” Richard Reid. The FBI said previously
in court papers that Zazi conspired with at least three others.  
 The case is U.S. v. Ahmedzay, 1:10-cr-00018, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        