-- New York Times Sticks to Ad Rates as News Corp.'s WSJ Starts N.Y. Edition
-- Greg Bensinger
-- 2010-04-23T21:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/new-york-times-sticks-to-ad-rates-as-news-corp-s-wsj-starts-n-y-edition.html

          
          
             New York Times Co. said its
namesake newspaper will stick to its advertising rates as the
Wall Street Journal starts a new section on April 26 that
focuses on New York City news.  
 The Journal, owned by News Corp.’s Dow Jones unit, has been
offering lower advertising prices to lure marketers in the New
York area, Times Co. President Scott Heekin-Canedy said in an
interview today.  
 “We won’t get into a pricing war,” Heekin-Canedy said.
“We’ll protect our turf, but we’re just not going there.” The
Journal is “giving away pages and they’re deeply discounting,”
he said, citing his newspaper’s advertisers.  
 Newspapers have been losing print circulation as they raise
prices and as more readers seek news on the Internet. The Times
plans to charge some readers for accessing its Web site as soon
as January, Heekin-Canedy said.  
 Times Co., based in New York, lost 68 cents, or 5.5
percent, to $11.61 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have declined 6.1 percent this
year. New York-based News Corp. gained 6 cents, less than 1
percent, to $16.12 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Its shares
have risen 18 percent this year.  
 The Times will begin airing television commercials next
week that highlight its hometown coverage with the tagline
“There’s only one paper that covers New York like the New York
Times, and that’s the New York Times,” Heekin-Canedy said.  
 Rate Cutting  
 “Competitors have been accusing each other of rate cutting
since the beginning of time,” Michael Rooney, chief revenue
officer of the Journal, said today in an e-mailed statement.
Emily Edmonds, a Dow Jones spokeswoman, declined to comment
further.  
 “Can they take readership from us and can they take
advertising from us?” Heekin-Canedy said. “The answer to both
questions is no.”  
 Average daily circulation for the New York Times slid 7.3
percent to 927,851 in the six months through September,
according to Audit Bureau of Circulations data. The Wall Street
Journal, which counts subscribers to its for-pay Web site, added
less than 1 percent to 2.02 million, while its print-only
circulation dropped 2.4 percent to 1.62 million, ABC said.  
 Later this year, Times Co. will introduce an app for Apple
Inc.’s iPhone that displays features and advice about New York
City nightlife and dining, Diane McNulty, a Times Co.
spokeswoman, said today. She said the app’s details are still
being worked out.  
 Swing to Profit  
 Times Co. yesterday said it swung to a first-quarter profit
from a year earlier on the strength of cost cuts and rising
digital advertising sales, while print advertising sales
declined 12 percent. The Journal boosted print ad sales 25
percent in its most recent quarter, Rooney said in the e-mail.  
 Standard & Poor’s analyst Joseph Agnese raised his rating
on Times Co. shares to “hold” from “sell,” citing an
improving economy and ad sales market.  
 “We’re very confident in our New York coverage,” Heekin-
Canedy said. “There’s reason to believe that Journal readers
might come over to the Times.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A copy of the New York Times sits on display at a news stand in New York, on Nov. 10, 2009.  Photographer: Gino Domenico/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
