-- NRL Champion Melbourne Storm Loses Major Sponsors for Salary Cap Breaches
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-04-23T06:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/nrl-champion-melbourne-storm-loses-major-sponsors-for-salary-cap-breaches.html

          
          
             The Melbourne Storm lost two of its
biggest sponsors a day after being stripped of two Australian
National Rugby League titles for systematically breaching the
competition’s salary cap.  
 Members Equity Bank Pty and pension fund Hostplus, who were
listed on the Storm’s Web site as “major partners,” terminated
their sponsorships after the club was found to have made player
payments outside the cap totaling A$1.7 million ($1.4 million)
over five years. Sportswear maker Skins International Trading AG,
a fourth-tier sponsor, also withdrew its support.  
 “ME Bank believes in the principles of strong governance,
transparency, integrity, and fairness and we seek to ensure that
all of our corporate and community partnerships uphold these
same values,” Chief Executive Officer Jamie McPhee said in a
statement. “The bank is extremely disappointed by the events.”  
 NRL Chief Executive David Gallop said yesterday that Storm
officials had gone to “extraordinary lengths” to cover up the
payments that had allowed the club to “recruit and retain some
of the best players in the game.”  
 As well as losing its 2007 and 2009 titles, the Storm was
docked all competition points earned this season and lost
the right to accumulate any in its 19 remaining matches, fined
A$500,000 and forced to hand back A$1.1 million in prize money
as the NRL handed down its unprecedented punishment.  
 League officials said investigations revealed the Storm,
which is owned by a unit of Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp.,
maintained a dual contract system. The club confirmed that
letters promising extra payments were stored in a secret file
and has accepted the penalties.  
 ‘Relationship Untenable’  
 Hostplus, which manages about A$7 billion in pension funds
in Australia, said the gravity of the Storm’s conduct had “made
the relationship untenable.”  
 “The revelations about the actions of some members of the
Melbourne Storm management contradict everything we believe
in,” Hostplus CEO David Elia said in the statement.  
 Skins CEO Jamie Fuller said the sportswear maker was
“appalled” by Melbourne’s actions. The company, which sponsors
more than 150 athletes and sports teams in Australia, uses the
slogan “cheat legal” in its latest advertising campaign.  
 “We understand that sometimes there is a need to give
second chances, but this level of systemic deceit is inexcusable
and therefore we will not be continuing with our partnership,”
Fuller said in a statement.  
 Japanese automaker Suzuki Motor Corp., sportswear company
Kooga and power tool maker Makita Corp. said they haven’t made
any decisions on their sponsorship of the team.  
 Expected Exodus  
 “Some sponsors will obviously want to move on,” Storm
Chairman Rob Moodie said in a televised news conference in
Melbourne. “We understand that.”  
 The NRL, which runs Australia’s professional rugby league
competition, introduced the salary cap in 1990 to prevent richer
clubs from hoarding the best players. This year’s cap is A$4.1
million for the 25 highest-paid players at each of the league’s
16 clubs.  
 Melbourne’s deception comes eight years after the
Canterbury Bulldogs, who led the league at the time, were docked
37 competition points over salary cap breaches totaling about
A$1 million over two seasons. The Sydney-based team was also
fined A$500,000.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        