-- Obama Urges Bank Reform, Swaps Opposition, Swiss Bank Splits: Compliance
-- Carla Main
-- 2010-04-23T12:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/obama-urges-bank-reform-swaps-opposition-swiss-bank-splits-compliance.html

          
          
             In a speech aimed equally at Wall
Street and Main Street, President Barack Obama urged the
financial industry to drop the “furious effort” to fight his
regulation plan, saying a failure to impose tougher rules on the
market will put the U.S. economic system at risk.  
 The U.S. was almost dragged into a second Great Depression
by “a failure of responsibility -- from Wall Street all the way
to Washington,” Obama said in a speech yesterday at Cooper
Union in New York. The audience included Lloyd Blankfein,
chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., other Wall Street executives, local officials, consumer
advocates, faculty and students.  
 “What happens on Wall Street “has real consequences
across our country, across our economy,” Obama said.  
 Obama repeated the arguments he has made for overhauling
financial industry regulations during the past two years. His
push to get the legislation through Congress got a boost when
Democrats and Republicans resumed negotiations after weeks of
trading accusations.  
 The effort has been helped by the administration’s ramped-
up lobbying campaign and last week’s announcement by the
Securities and Exchange Commission that it is suing Goldman
Sachs for alleged fraud linked to derivatives.  
 For more, click here.  
 Separately, industry leaders said legislation to regulate
the $605 trillion derivatives market is reaching beyond issues
that threatened the financial system two years ago and may
impede the market.  
 The Senate Agriculture Committee, chaired by Senator
Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, on April 21 approved
derivatives legislation that would require U.S. lenders such as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. to spin off their
swap-trading operations or lose access to the Federal Reserve’s
discount lending window and other government support. Under
Senate legislation, the most actively traded swaps would be
moved through clearinghouses designed as a safety net for the
financial system.  
 Conrad Voldstad, chief executive officer of the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association, said President
Barack Obama’s administration has taken a careless approach to
financial reform after its victory in passing health care
reform, and is now “beating up on the banks.”  
 For more, click here and click here.  
 In Europe, dealers in credit-default swaps are doing “a
lot of work” to ensure that contracts protecting against
government defaults are moved through clearinghouses, said
Athanassios Diplas, co-chairman of the credit-steering committee
for the ISDA.  
 Swaps on governments came under fire from European leaders
including German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French Finance
Minister Christine Lagarde amid accusations that trading in the
contracts was fueling speculation that can distort perceptions
of government creditworthiness.  
 Compliance Policy  
 Credit Suisse, UBS May Be Split in Swiss Emergencies  
 Switzerland needs bank insolvency laws to be able to break
up Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG in an emergency, because
the size of the banks is a threat to the rest of the economy, a
government panel said.  
 Laws to create “bridge banks” to run the elements of the
lenders most important to Switzerland’s financial system may be
published this summer, the group of experts said in an interim
report yesterday. The two Zurich-based banks’ combined balance
sheets are more than four times the size of the Swiss economy.  
 UBS spokesman Serge Steiner declined to comment because the
experts’ work isn’t final. Credit Suisse spokesman Alex Biscaro
wrote in an e-mail that the measures need to be coordinated
internationally.  
 For more, click here.  
 German Companies May Face Disclosure Rule, Handelsblatt Says  
 Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government may require German
companies to keep lists of data they compile on business
partners and disclose the information to them once a year,
Handelsblatt reported, citing lawmakers.  
 The proposal being discussed by the government might
include data such as a customer’s credit rating, the newspaper
said. Pro-business lawmakers in Merkel’s coalition criticize the
plan as costly for companies and bureaucratic, Handelsblatt
said.  
 Ukraine Central Bank Tightens Reserves Rules, Kommersant Says  
 Ukraine’s central bank, Natsionalnyi Bank Ukrainy, said
lenders should keep 100 percent of their reserves in a central
bank account to prevent fluctuation of the hryvnia, Kommersant-
Ukraine reported, citing an unidentified central bank official.  
 The new requirement takes effect May 1, according to
Kommersant. Banks currently must place 50 percent of their
reserves with the central bank, the newspaper reported.  
 The central bank is also allowing banks to form reserves
entirely with state bonds, issued to finance the Euro 2012
soccer tournament, the newspaper reported.  
 Ireland May Take Stake in Allied Irish Banks as Response to EU  
 The Irish government would probably take a stake in Allied
Irish Banks Plc as part of a payments-in-kind arrangement after
the European Commission halted coupon payments by the bank,
according to John Corrigan, head of Ireland’s NTMA.  
 U.S. Said To Weigh AIG Exit Through Two Years of Share Sales  
 The U.S. government, majority owner of American
International Group Inc. after rescuing the insurer in 2008, is
considering a two-year plan to dispose of its stake, said a
person with knowledge of the discussions.  
 The proposal involves converting preferred stock into
common shares for sale on the open market, said the person, who
declined to be identified because talks with AIG are private.  
 For more, click here.  
 Compliance Action  
 Moody’s, S&P Were Swayed by Wall Street, Senate Probe Finds  
 Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s were too
influenced by Wall Street, had insufficient resources and used
outdated models to grade mortgage securities that blew up when
the U.S. housing market collapsed in 2007, Senate investigators
said in a report.  
 The Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations
concluded after an 18-month probe that the credit-rating firms
had conflicts of interest and ignored signs that fraud and lax
lending had infected the housing market. The findings may
undermine lobbying efforts aimed at defeating legislation that
would make it easier for investors to sue the companies.  
 E-mails released by the committee, which is holding a
hearing on the companies today, show Moody’s and S&P deferring
to investment banks that were paying them to assign ratings to
securities composed of pooled mortgages.  
 It is a “timely coincidence” that the panel finished its
probe just when the Senate prepares to weigh the overhaul bill,
according to Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who led the panel
investigation.  
 For more, click here.  
 BHP Says Probe to Have ‘Modest’ Effect, Financial Times Says  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. said an investigation by U.S. regulators
into alleged corrupt practices will have a “modest” effect on
the company, the Financial Times reported, citing Chief
Executive Officer Marius Kloppers.  
 At least one person, whom he didn’t identify, is “under
scrutiny,” the newspaper said, citing Kloppers, who declined to
say where the alleged wrongdoing took place, adding that the
claims are a threat to BHP’s corporate governance record.  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is examining a
former BHP bauxite exploration project in Cambodia, the
newspaper said, citing a person close to the company.  
 Melbourne-based BHP spokeswoman Amanda Buckley declined to
comment.  
 Mexican Regulators Probe Possible Market Manipulation  
 Mexican regulators are investigating possible
“manipulation” of the government bond market during a 14-month
period, said Guillermo Babatz, the president of the National
Banking and Securities Commission.  
 The commission was alerted at the end of 2008 to the
actions that are now under investigation. The investigation
looks into a period of 14 months, Babatz said in an interview
yesterday in Acapulco, where he’s attending a banking
conference. He declined to provide more details.  
 The securities commission has been increasing
investigations into possible violations since the global
financial crisis began three years ago.  
 For more, click here.  
 Goldman Sachs Should Cut Losses in Standoff, Professors Say  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. may be better off cutting its
losses instead of fighting what it terms “unfounded” fraud
claims, say professors of securities law who have examined the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s lawsuit against the
bank.  
 Goldman Sachs is the first major Wall Street firm accused
by regulators of fraud connected to the collapse of the subprime
mortgage market. Goldman has said the claims are unfounded.  
 The most profitable firm in Wall Street history will
probably lose what is typically the first hurdle in court, a
motion to throw out the April 16 suit because it lacks legal
merit, the professors said in interviews this week. After that,
Goldman Sachs’s risks will mount and its negotiating position
will weaken, the professors said.  
 Even if top managers are certain they’re right on the
merits of the case, Goldman Sachs should probably settle, said
senior executives at three of the firm’s rivals. Goldman Sachs
may have to change senior management to give the appearance that
the firm is changing the way it does business, two of the rival
executives said.  
 Lucas van Praag, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment yesterday on the likelihood of getting the case
dismissed.  
 Separately, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director tipped off
a hedge fund billionaire about a $5 billion investment in the
bank by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. before it
became public knowledge, the Wall Street Journal reported,
citing a person familiar with the matter.  
 The investment came at the height of the 2008 financial
crisis and federal prosecutors say Goldman director Rajat Gupta
told Galleon Group founder Raj Rajaratnam about the Berkshire
investment; investigators wrote to Gupta, who said last month he
was stepping down as a Goldman director, to say they had found
out about the tip through an intercepted phone call between
Gupta and Rajaratnam, the newspaper said.  
 Gupta hasn’t been formally accused of any wrongdoing and
Goldman wouldn’t comment, the Journal said, adding that his
lawyer said he hadn’t violated any law.  
 Rajaratnam is being sued by the Securities and Exchange
Commission for criminal insider-trading, which he denies.  
 Goldman Executives to Join Tourre at Senate Hearing  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Lloyd
Blankfein and five past and present executives will testify with
Fabrice Tourre, the banker at the center of U.S. fraud
allegations, at a Senate hearing next week.  
 David Viniar, Craig Broderick, Daniel Sparks, Michael
Swenson and Joshua Birnbaum were listed as witnesses for the
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations hearing on April 27.  
 Senators will explore investment banks’ role in the
financial crisis, the panel said in an e-mail release.  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission sued Goldman Sachs
and Tourre, 31, last week, claiming they misled investors in a
collateralized debt obligation. The company has vowed to fight
the suit. Tourre and Blankfein agreed to speak publicly to show
Goldman Sachs has nothing to hide, people with knowledge of the
matter said yesterday.  
 For more, click here.  
 FSA Fines Winterflood, Two Traders 4.25 Million Pounds  
 The Financial Services Authority said it imposed fines of
4.25 million pounds ($6.5 million) on Winterflood Securities and
two of its traders after the regulator won a court of appeal
ruling in the case.  
 Deutsche Bank Fined by Hungarian Regulator for Trades  
 Deutsche Bank AG was fined 90 million forint ($457,922) by
Hungary’s financial regulator for a series of trades that caused
a “significant” weakening in the forint as the credit crisis
engulfed the country two years ago.  
 For more, click here.  
 Massachusetts Conducting Probe of Goldman, Boston Globe Says  
 Massachusetts Secretary of State William Galvin said he is
carrying out a separate probe of Goldman, Sachs & Co. for
potential conflicts of interest and a policy of favoring certain
clients, the Boston Globe reported.  
 Galvin said in an interview that his office is looking into
discussions by the bank’s traders and analysts over investment
and market trends and sharing information with hedge funds and
other large clients, the newspaper reported.  
 Courts  
 Ex-Societe Generale Trader Agrawal Is Denied Bail  
 Former Societe Generale trader Samarth Agrawal must remain
in jail following his arrest for stealing the company’s computer
code for high-frequency trading, a U.S. judge ruled.  
 Agrawal, 26, was arrested on April 19 and accused of making
copies of part of the code he had been given access to and
another part that he hadn’t. U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael
Dolinger in New York yesterday denied Agrawal’s request for bail
after prosecutors argued he was a risk to flee to his native
India.  
 Agrawal’s lawyer, Steven M. Statsinger, told the judge that
eight or nine friends who appeared in court yesterday would have
been willing to guarantee his bond, adding that Agrawal has
“has lived an exemplary life.”  
 Agrawal was hired by Societe Generale in New York in March
2007 as a quantitative analyst, according to the criminal
complaint.  
 Comings and Goings  
 Standard Chartered Ordered to Pay Banker It Fired on First Day  
 Standard Chartered Plc was ordered by Singapore’s High
Court to pay Fermin Aldabe for wrongful dismissal after the
lender’s global senior risk manager said he would resign on his
first day on the job.  
 The London-based bank must pay Aldabe at least S$40,333
($29,384) including one month’s salary of S$27,500 and his wage
from Nov. 17 to Nov. 30, 2008, Justice Steven Chong said in his
judgment April 21. Aldabe was fired after saying he’d resign
when told he wouldn’t be paid for a two-week period before the
start date stipulated in his offer letter.  
 Standard Chartered will also have to reimburse Aldabe his
relocation costs to Singapore from Argentina, where he had been
based. Chong rejected his claim for S$1.54 million including
losses for giving up another job opportunity.  
 Aldabe, 43, represented himself in the case. He is now a
senior research fellow at the National University of Singapore’s
Risk Management Institute.  
 Standard Chartered’s lawyer Herman Jeremiah said the
judgment was a “substantial victory” because a significant
portion of the claim was dismissed.  
 The case is Aldabe Fermin v. Standard Chartered Bank
174/2009/B in the Singapore High Court.  
 Williamson Says U.K. Banks ‘Cautious’ About New Hiring  
 Benjamin Williamson, an economist at the Centre for
Economics & Business Research Ltd., talked about the outlook for
employment in London’s financial services industry, and the
impact of proposed bank levies and the bonus tax. He spoke with
Bloomberg’s Maryam Nemazee.  
 For the video, click here.  
 Interviews  
 FCIC’s Angelides ‘Stunned’ by Ratings on Mortgage Bonds  
 Phil Angelides, chairman of the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission, talks with Bloomberg’s Carol Massar and Matt Miller
about credit-rating companies’ top rankings for mortgage bonds
that later soured.  
 Angelides also discusses the FCIC’s investigation of the
financial crisis and subpoena of Moody’s Corp.  
 For the video, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 Cmain2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        