-- Obama Friend Risks Backlash in Illinois by Calling Out `Corporate Rogues'
-- John McCormick
-- 2010-04-23T12:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/obama-friend-risks-backlash-in-illinois-by-calling-out-corporate-rogues-.html

          
          
             The Illinois Democrat seeking a
U.S. Senate seat once held by President Barack Obama is trying
to broaden to other companies the potential taint of political
contributions from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. employees.  
 Alexi Giannoulias, who counts Obama as a mentor and
basketball buddy, yesterday called on his Republican opponent to
return campaign contributions totaling more than $380,000 from
14 companies and their employees. Three of the companies --
Abbott Laboratories, Boeing Co. and Baxter International Inc. --
are Illinois based and collectively employ about 19,000 workers
in the state.  
 The strategy carries with it political risk in a state
where unemployment is 11.5 percent, said Jim Schmidt, executive
creative director at the advertising firm Downtown Partners
Chicago.  
 “You do risk offending them and their employees by
intimating that they did something wrong,” Schmidt said. “In
general, those companies are considered good corporate
citizens.”  
 Mark Kirk, a five-term congressman from Chicago’s northern
suburbs who is the Republican nominee competing against
Giannoulias, said earlier this week that he would return more
than $20,000 in contributions from Goldman Sachs employees amid
a fraud lawsuit filed April 16 against the bank by the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 Goldman Donors  
 Donations from the bank’s employees, including almost $1
million to Obama in 2007 and 2008, have become an issue for
political candidates from both parties as the president and
Democrats in Congress push the most sweeping changes to
financial regulation since the Great Depression.  
 Labeling them “corporate rogues,” Giannoulias’s campaign
called on Kirk to return $381,075 in contributions it said he
has taken while in Congress from “corporations that, like
Goldman, have been charged with, or found liable of, fraud.”  
 “Given his own proclaimed standard, it is reasonable to
expect Congressman Kirk also to return the almost $400,000 worth
of contributions from corporations that, like Goldman Sachs,
have defrauded taxpayers and, in some cases, brought on the
financial crisis,” said Matt McGrath, a Giannoulias spokesman.  
 The new line of attack comes as Giannoulias’s family faces
the potential closure of the bank they have owned since 1979.  
 Family Money  
 Broadway Bank in Chicago, whose wealth helped finance
Giannoulias’s successful 2006 bid for state treasurer, has been
operating since January under a consent agreement with the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. because of commercial real-
estate loan losses. The family must raise at least $75 million
by next week to meet regulatory demands.  
 “With his family bank moments from collapse and a huge tax
windfall awaiting him, Alexi Giannoulias would rather attack
Illinois employers and their workers than find solutions to
expand opportunities and create new jobs,” said Kirsten
Kukowski, a Kirk spokeswoman.  
 In an opinion piece posted yesterday evening on the Chicago
Tribune’s Web site, Demetris Giannoulias, Broadway Bank’s
president and chief executive officer, said the institution
“could be closed by regulators.”  
 Demetris Giannoulias, who is the candidate’s brother,
criticized the “outdated” practices of regulators and asked
for more patience from them.  
 Big-Banks Bailout  
 “Over the past few years, we made decisions that -- though
sound at the time -- resulted in a high level of nonperforming
assets,” he wrote. “Where big banks got a bailout, all we ask
is to be allowed to live, with the capital we have, until the
market turns around -- as it already has for the big banks.”  
 Giannoulias, who has pledged not to accept corporate
political action committee contributions, listed regulatory,
legal and other issues involving the 14 companies.  
 For Abbott Park, Illinois-based Abbott, Giannoulias
referred to an investigation by the U.S. Justice Department over
sales and marketing activities for Depakote, which is used to
treat bipolar mania and epilepsy.  
 Adelle Infante, an Abbott spokeswoman, did not respond to a
request for comment.  
 In the case of Deerfield, Illinois-based Baxter, the
Giannoulias campaign listed a $2 million settlement with
Kentucky over pricing for intravenous solutions from Baxter
Healthcare, a subsidiary. The company’s media department didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  
 John Dern, a spokesman for Chicago-based Boeing, said
Giannoulias’s allegation of “high profile fraud cases including
attempting to use insider trading to secure a lucrative no-bid
tanker contract” contains errors.  
 Past Scandals  
 The company has in the past dealt with defense-contract
scandals, including allegations of improperly acquiring
documents, which resulted in government fines and the
resignation of executives.  
 “I’m not eager to get into the middle of this other than
to say some spelling and fact-checking work needs to be done on
future releases” from the campaign, Dern said.  
 Criticism of the companies by Giannoulias is misguided,
said John Challenger, chief executive officer of Challenger Gray
& Christmas, a Chicago-based workplace consulting company.  
 “It’s wrongheaded trying to capitalize, in a risky way, on
the anti-corporate and business environment,” Challenger said.
“Many of these corporations have supported both parties, so I
don’t think you want to start demonizing, especially in this
state where we have lost corporate headquarters.  
 “You might be able to score some political points in the
short-term, but it’s not good for the state.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Alexi Giannoulias  
                       
                         
                           Tim Boyle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Alexi Giannoulias, speaks during an interview at his campaign headquarters in Chicago, Illinois, on Jan. 15, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Alexi Giannoulias, speaks during an interview at his campaign headquarters in Chicago, Illinois, on Jan. 15, 2010. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
