-- Obama Seeks Immigration Overhaul, Slams Arizona Law
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-04-23T20:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/obama-calls-for-immigration-law-overhaul-after-misguided-arizona-action.html

          
          
             President Barack Obama called anew
for overhauling the nation’s immigration laws, saying a failure
to do so will lead to “misguided” efforts such as legislation
passed in Arizona.  
 “Our failure to act responsibly at the federal level will
only open the door to irresponsibility by others,” Obama said
at a Rose Garden naturalization ceremony for 24 members of the
U.S. military. “That includes, for example, the recent efforts
in Arizona.”  
 The state legislature passed a bill that would make it a
state crime to be in the U.S. illegally and require local police
to determine the immigration status of anyone an officer
suspects of being in the country without proper documentation.  
 Arizona Governor Jan Brewer, who is running for a new term
this year, signed the bill into law at a ceremony attended by
several state officials hours after Obama’s comments. Brewer
said she expects the measure to face constitutional challenges.  
 The measure has sparked protests in the state, where Census
Bureau figures show about a quarter of the population is of
Hispanic descent. It also shares a border with Mexico and has an
estimated 460,000 residents living there illegally, the seventh
highest total in the country, according to the Department of
Homeland Security.  
 ‘Notions of Fairness’  
 The actions by the Arizona legislature threaten “to
undermine basic notions of fairness that we cherish as
Americans,” Obama said. It also may hamper trust between
residents and law enforcement authorities, he said.  
 He said he has instructed U.S. authorities to monitor the
state’s actions and to “examine the civil rights and other
implications” of the legislation.  
 The president’s comments came at a naturalization ceremony
for 24 U.S. soldiers from 16 countries who took the oath to
become citizens.  
 Democratic congressional leaders have said an overhaul of
U.S. immigration law could advance through Congress this year if
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid can pick up enough Republican
support to get it through the chamber.  
 The last try at revamping the law to create a guest worker
program and provide a path to citizenship for some of those
living in the U.S. illegally was in 2007. That was blocked amid
opposition from Republicans and some Democrats.  
 Call for Solution  
 “Surely we can all agree that when 11 million people in
our country are living here illegally, outside the system,
that’s unacceptable,” Obama said. “The American people demand
and deserve a solution.”  
 Obama lauded the work of Senators Charles Schumer, a New
York Democrat, and Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican,
to come up with a framework for legislation that can win
bipartisan support.  
 Graham has said he’ll introduce legislation only after it’s
finished and at least one other Republican signs on. He said
this week that any effort to move immigration this year will
fail badly because both parties need to “lay the groundwork”
politically with tough border-control approaches first.  
 The president has been making calls to members of Congress,
including Republicans, to win support for tackling an
immigration law overhaul, White House press secretary Robert
Gibbs said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. President Barack Obama  
                       
                         
                           Jin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. President Barack Obama speaks about financial reform at Cooper Union in New York, on April 22, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. President Barack Obama speaks about financial reform at Cooper Union in New York, on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
