-- Homebuilding Stocks Rally as March Sales Surge
-- John Gittelsohn
-- 2010-04-23T20:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/homebuilders-rally-as-u-s-sales-in-march-point-to-housing-market-rebound.html

          
          
             U.S. homebuilding stocks, led by
Lennar Corp. and Standard Pacific Corp., posted the biggest
weekly gain since July as two reports showed sales are
recovering from the depths of the housing-market collapse.  
 New home sales increased 27 percent in March from the
previous month to an annual pace of 411,000, the largest rise
since recordkeeping began in 1963, the Commerce Department said
today. Sales of existing homes jumped 6.7 percent to 5.35
million in March, the first increase in four months, the
National Association of Realtors reported yesterday.  
 Buyers are rushing to take advantage of tax credits of as
much as $8,000 by signing contracts before May 1 and completing
the deals by June 30. The sales recovery will extend past the
deadline, according to Michael Rehaut, an analyst with JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  
 “We expect the builders to continue to show positive order
growth during the spring selling season, as well as order growth
in the second half of the year,” Rehaut wrote in a note today
to investors.  
 Publicly traded homebuilders probably will benefit from the
sales surge more than their closely held competitors because
they have more capital to buy land, build homes before signing
up buyers and increase market share, said Bernard Markstein,
senior economist at the National Association of Home Builders in
Washington.  
 ‘Capital Is King’  
 “They have a competitive advantage because of their better
access to capital markets,” Markstein said in a telephone
interview. “And capital is king now.”  
 The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index gained 13 percent
this week, the most since a 14 percent rally by the 12-stock
group during the week of July 17. The index is up 29 percent
this year, compared with the 9.2 percent increase by the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Last year, the homebuilders group
rose 18 percent while the S&P 500 added 24 percent.  
 Lennar Corp. of Miami, the third-largest builder by
revenue, gained 20 percent this week to $20.53 as of 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Standard Pacific
Corp. of Irvine, California, climbed 19 percent to $6.58. Pulte
Group Inc. of Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, the largest U.S.
homebuilder, also rose 19 percent, to $13.19.  
 The unsold new home inventory fell to a 6.7-month supply,
the lowest level since December 2006, the Commerce Department
reported. That could drive up prices, Megan McGrath, a housing
industry analyst for Barclays Capital Inc., wrote in a note to
investors.  
 National median home prices gained 4.3 percent year-over-
year to $214,000, McGrath said.  
 ‘Makes Me Concerned’  
 The increase in sales may not last, said Vicki Bryan, a
senior yield analyst with New York-based Gimme Credit LLC, who
covers homebuilders. The percentage gain in new home sales last
month was off an annual pace of 324,000 in February, the lowest
since the Commerce Department began keeping records, Bryan said.  
 “It makes me concerned this is stimulus-driven and could
be pulling sales ahead,” Bryan said in a telephone interview.
“I don’t see sustainability.”  
 KB Home, a Los Angeles-based builder that specializes in
homes for first-time buyers, is keeping sales offices open until
midnight this weekend for a “Moonlight Madness” sale to help
customers take advantage of the tax credit, according to its Web
site.  
 At the Twin Lakes development in Cary, North Carolina,
where KB Home sells its line of Martha Stewart houses starting
at $230,000, buyers closed on four properties in the past 24
hours, said Kristen Kelly, a KB sales associate. New homes are
appealing in part because they’re a better value than existing
houses in the Raleigh-Durham area, which has avoided the worst
of the recession, she said.  
 “I’ve had people say I’m eligible for the tax credit, but
I’d rather get what I want,” Kelly said. “This is our busiest
time of year. This is our holiday season.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Dean Maki, chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman and Mark Crumpton about U.S. new-home sales.
     Sales of new homes surged 27 percent in March and orders for most durable goods climbed, indicating the U.S. economy sped up heading into the second quarter. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
