-- Hong Kong Stocks Fall for Second Week; Developers Decline on China Concern
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-04-23T08:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/hong-kong-stocks-fall-for-second-week-developers-decline-on-china-concern.html

          
          
             Hong Kong stocks fell, with the
benchmark index dropping for a second straight week, on
continued concern China is stepping up measures to curb its real
estate market.  
 China Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled developer,
slid 3 percent. China Cosco Holdings Co. declined 2.3 percent
after the world’s largest operator of dry-bulk ships slumped to
an annual loss. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the nation’s
largest aluminum producer, retreated 1.8 percent after metal
prices fell.  
 “There clearly are concerns, notably in China, where
property has gotten frothy in some areas,” Timothy Moe, a
strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “The government is right to step
in.”  
 The Hang Seng Index dropped 1 percent to close at 21,244.49,
extending its losses this week to 2.8 percent. The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index, which tracks the so-called H shares of
Hong Kong-listed Chinese companies, decreased 1.3 percent to
12,168.18.  
 Shares on the Hang Seng Index are priced at an average 14
times estimated earnings, down from 18 times on Nov. 16 when the
index closed at its highest level for 2009, according to
Bloomberg data. Concern that budget deficits in Europe may
derail the global recovery and speculation China’s government
will tighten money supply have contributed to a 7.4 percent drop
in the Hang Seng from its November high.  
 Property Tax  
 The Hang Seng Property Index’s 1.7 percent drop was the
biggest among the four industry groups tracked by the Hang Seng
Index. China Resources Land slid 3 percent to HK$14.18. China
Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., controlled by the nation’s
construction ministry, declined 2.8 percent to HK$14.70.  
 China may tax third homes and additional properties owned
by individuals, the Shanghai Securities News reported.
Separately, BNP Paribas SA forecast the nation’s home prices
will fall by as much as 20 percent in the second half as
government measures to curb credit, increase land supply and a
potential property holding tax cool speculation. China may also
abolish a waiver of a 1.2 percent property holding tax on
housing as early as May, BNP Paribas said.  
 China Cosco declined 2.3 percent to HK$10.02. The company
slumped to an annual loss after rates for hauling commodities
and containers tumbled on overcapacity and the global recession.
The 7.47 billion-yuan net loss ($1.09 billion) compared with a
restated profit of 11.6 billion yuan a year earlier, the
shipping line said. The loss was more than the 6 billion yuan
average of 11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Greek Debt  
 Shares also fell as Greece’s deficit raised concerns the
global economic recovery will falter. Foxconn International
Holdings Ltd., the world’s biggest contract maker of mobile-
phones, slid 3.9 percent to HK$7.17. Cosco Pacific Ltd., which
took over operations of Piraeus Port, Greece’s largest, declined
1.7 percent to HK$11.94.  
 The European Union said yesterday Greece’s budget deficit
last year was worse than previously forecast and Moody’s
Investors Service cut the country’s creditworthiness. The
country’s deficit of 13.6 percent of gross domestic product may
be revised to as high as 14.1 percent because of
“uncertainties” about the country’s economic data, said
Eurostat, the EU’s statistics office in Luxembourg.  
 Chalco, as Aluminum Corp. is known, retreated 1.8 percent
to HK$8. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the
metal, declined 2.3 percent to HK$17.20.  
 A gauge of six metals, including copper and aluminum, on
the London Metal Exchange fell 0.8 percent yesterday for a
second straight day.  
 Lumena Resources Corp., a producer of a chemical used in
detergents and medicine, plunged 7.8 percent to HK$2.49. A
Lumena share sale raised HK$367.5 million ($47.3 million),
according to a pricing sheet.  
 Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., operator of Asia’s
third-largest bourse, slid 1.1 percent to HK$131.60 after
executives said alternative trading platforms are the bourse’s
biggest challenge because they lack transparency.  
 Futures on the Hang Seng Index fell 1.1 percent to 21,249.
All but six stocks dropped among the 43 constituents of the
gauge.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Hanny Wan in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        