-- Onyx Rises After Nexavar Outperforms Pfizer's Sutent in Liver Cancer Trial
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-04-23T20:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/onyx-rises-after-nexavar-outperforms-pfizer-s-sutent-in-liver-cancer-trial.html

          
          
             Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. increased
the most in nine months after its Nexavar treatment for advanced
liver cancer outperformed a potential competitor from Pfizer
Inc. in trials.  
 Onyx rose $2.69, or 9.4 percent, to $31.18 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading for the
biggest single-day increase since July 22. The company gained 16
percent in the past 12 months.  
 Pfizer halted testing of anti-tumor drug Sutent as a liver
cancer therapy because patients taking it had more serious side
effects than those on Nexavar, the New York-based company said
yesterday in a statement. The results leave Nexavar as the only
approved medication for advanced liver cancer and will help the
drug achieve sales of $1 billion this year, Onyx Chief Executive
Officer Anthony Coles said today in a telephone interview.  
 The discontinuation of the Sutent study “is extremely
positive” for shares of Emeryville, California-based Onyx,
George Farmer, an analyst at Canaccord Adams Inc. in New York,
said today in a note to investors. “Nexavar will probably hold
a monopoly in this market for the foreseeable future.”  
 Nexavar, co-marketed by Onyx and Leverkusen, Germany-based
Bayer AG, had worldwide sales of $844 million in 2009, Coles
said. It is approved for use in patients with inoperable liver
cancer and kidney cancer and is being tested in breast cancer
and lung cancer, he said.  
 ‘Unique Compound’  
 The results released by Pfizer show that “Nexavar is a
unique compound with a unique mechanism of action,” Coles said.
Nexavar is the only approved drug that inhibits a particular
cancer-related protein known as B-Raf, he said.  
 Several drugs are in head-to-head testing with Nexavar to
gain approval for use in liver cancer, including ABT-869, being
co-developed by Abbott Laboratories of Abbott Park, Illinois,
and Basel, Switzerland-based Roche AG, and New York-based
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s Brivanib.  
 Sutent, which was in the third and final round of testing
required by U.S. regulators, failed to show improved survival
compared with Nexavar, Pfizer said. The drug is already approved
for kidney cancer and a digestive system malignancy.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Ellen Gibson in New York at 
 egibson9@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Waters in San Francisco at 
 Rwaters5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        