-- Moody's, S&P Ratings Were Swayed by Wall Street, Reports By Senate Panel
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-04-23T15:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/moody-s-s-p-influenced-by-wall-street-used-outdated-models-senate-finds.html

          
          
             Moody’s Investors Service and
Standard & Poor’s were too influenced by Wall Street, had
insufficient resources and used outdated models to grade
mortgage securities that blew up when the U.S. housing market
collapsed in 2007, Senate investigators said in a report.  
 The Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations
concluded after an 18-month probe that the credit-rating firms
had conflicts of interest and ignored signs that fraud and lax
lending had infected the housing market. The findings may
undermine lobbying efforts aimed at defeating legislation that
would make it easier for investors to sue the companies.  
 “Credit-rating agencies allowed Wall Street to impact
their analysis, their independence and their reputation for
reliability,” Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who
leads the investigative panel, said at a hearing in Washington
today. “They did it for the money.”  
 E-mails released by the committee show Moody’s and S&P
deferring to investment banks that were paying them to assign
ratings to securities composed of pooled mortgages.  
 S&P’s residential mortgage-backed securities group had
“become so beholden to their top issuers for revenue they have
all developed Stockholm syndrome which they mistakenly tag as
customer value creation,” an unidentified S&P employee wrote in
an August 2006 e-mail. Stockholm syndrome describes hostages
who’ve developed positive feelings for their captors.  
 ‘Continually Pitched’  
 Moody’s Chief Executive Officer Raymond McDaniel received
an e-mail from the company’s chief risk officer in October 2007
that said: “Analysts and managing directors are continually
pitched by bankers, issuers, investors -- all with reasonable
arguments -- whose views can color credit judgment, sometimes
improving it, other times degrading it.”  
 Two of the e-mails mention Abacus collateralized debt
obligations issued by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. One Abacus deal
prompted the Securities and Exchange Commission to sue Goldman
Sachs for fraud on April l6.  
 “It was a known flaw not only with that particular Abacus
trade, but in pretty much all Abacus trades,” said an internal
S&P e-mail written in May 2006.  
 An April 2006 Moody’s e-mail that doesn’t discuss Abacus
said the ratings company was “getting serious pushback from
Goldman on a deal that they want to go to the market with
today.”  
 The Abacus transaction that triggered the SEC lawsuit was
sold in 2007. Goldman Sachs spokesman Michael DuVally declined
to comment.  
 ‘Highest Quality’  
 “Moody’s is not satisfied with the unprecedented market
downturn of the past two years,” McDaniel said in testimony
prepared for the today’s hearing. “Neither we, nor most other
market participants, observers or regulators, fully anticipated
the severity or speed of deterioration that occurred in the U.S.
housing market.”  
 Peter D’Erchia, managing director of U.S. public finance at
S&P, said the company has “always been committed to doing the
best we can to develop and maintain appropriate ratings. I am
proud of the hard work that my team put in trying to understand
and respond to a historic market disruption to the best of our
abilities.”  
 Public pension funds and lawmakers say S&P and Moody’s
helped cause the global financial crisis by giving top rankings
to mortgage bonds that later soured.  
 Changes Made  
 S&P, owned by New York-based McGraw-Hill Cos., and Moody’s
have made changes in response to the criticism. S&P incorporated
so-called credit stability provisions to address the risk that
rankings will fall several levels during periods of financial
stress.  
 Moody’s has implemented oversight initiatives, including
meeting regularly with advisory boards made up of investors and
academics.  
 Levin’s report, prepared with Republican Senator Tom Coburn
of Oklahoma, questioned a “mass” downgrade in which the
companies started lowering ratings in July 2007 on a combined
1,011 securities that were originally valued at $12.5 billion.  
 “After these rating downgrades, the subprime-secondary
market collapsed and financial firms around the world were left
holding suddenly unmarketable” mortgage securities, the report
said.  
 Senate Debate  
 The Senate may begin debating legislation next week to
overhaul financial rules after the credit crunch cost financial
companies worldwide more than $1.78 trillion and spurred a U.S.
bailout of banks including Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America
Corp.  
 The measure would authorize the SEC to evaluate and set
standards for what models S&P and Moody’s can use to assess
credit risk. The bill would also restrict judges from dismissing
lawsuits against credit-rating companies if investors can show a
firm “knowingly or recklessly” failed to scrutinize the
underlying assets in a security. Investors now have to present
facts suggesting ratings firms knowingly misled them for suits
to proceed.  
 McGraw-Hill Vice President Cynthia Braddon wrote in a March
22 e-mail to Senate staffers that the company was urging
Republican lawmakers to remove the liability provision from the
legislation. Her e-mail was obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 Levin told reporters in Washington yesterday that it’s
“fortuitous” that his panel finished the probe of credit-
rating companies as the Senate prepares to weigh the overhaul
bill. It’s a “very timely coincidence,” he said.  
 Other e-mails released by the investigation subcommittee
show S&P and Moody’s lacked resources to monitor whether
mortgage securities the company had already rated were souring.  
 “We spend most of our time keeping each other and our
staff calm,” an S&P employee wrote in a May 2006 e-mail.
“Tensions are high. Just too much work, not enough people,
pressure from the company, quite a bit of turnover and no
coordination of the non-deal stuff they want us and our staff to
do.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        