-- Moody's Valued CDO Share More Than Law, Ex-Employee Says
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-04-23T22:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/moody-s-valued-market-share-more-than-law-ex-executive-kolchinsky-says.html

          
          
             Moody’s Investors Service cared
more about losing market share than potentially committing
“securities fraud,” even as the rating company realized it
needed to step up downgrades on subprime-mortgage bonds, the
former head of a structured-products group said.  
 In September 2007, a manager at the New York-based firm
resisted a plan to grade new collateralized debt obligations
filled with mortgage bonds by including an assumption that
Moody’s rankings on the underlying home-loan securities were no
longer accurate, Eric Kolchinsky told the Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations in prepared testimony.  
 A more senior manager eventually agreed to allow the new
policy, which Kolchinsky, who headed the company’s mortgage-bond
CDO group, thought was needed after a meeting earlier that month
where its home-loan securities analysts revealed that they
planned to downgrade a large number of subprime notes, he said
today. The change was announced Sept. 21, 2007, and followed a
similar shift at Standard & Poor’s announced in July.  
 “I believed that to assign new ratings based on
assumptions which I knew to be wrong would constitute securities
fraud,” said Kolchinsky, who said he was demoted as a result of
his actions then and later suspended after complaining about “a
nearly identical situation” in 2009.  
 ‘Keep the Game Going’  
 An employee at hedge-fund firm Paulson & Co. said it had a
chance to keep betting against subprime mortgages in January
2007 in part because companies including ratings firms had
“incentives to keep the game going,” the Securities and
Exchange Commission said April 16 in suing Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. over a CDO that the agency alleged Paulson helped create.  
 An 18-month inquiry by the congressional panel, led by
Senator Carl Levin, found that ratings companies “used outdated
models and inadequate data, were too influenced by investment
bankers, allowed chronic resource shortages to undermine
ratings, and delayed downgrading investments,” according to a
statement yesterday from the Michigan Democrat.  
 Earlier this month, former Washington Mutual Inc. risk
managers told the committee that their company ignored warnings
that its mortgage underwriting was shoddy, and a former
Citigroup Inc. official made similar comments about his bank at
a hearing by a panel appointed by Congress to investigate the
financial crisis.  
 Citigroup Issue  
 Today, Citigroup underwrote the sale of $222.4 million of
securities backed by new mortgages, the first deal of its type
in more than two years. Amid short-term interest rates held near
zero by the Federal Reserve to stoke the economy, investors were
told earlier this week the bonds might pay an initial coupon of
4 percent, people familiar with the offering said.  
 Demand drove the rate down to 3.75 percent, according to a
statement from Mill Valley, California-based Redwood Trust Inc.,
the jumbo-mortgage specialist that issued the debt through an
affiliate and will retain a lower-ranked interest in the pool of
$237.8 million of loans originated by Citigroup in the past 11
months.  
 In October 2007, after the market for mortgage bonds
without government-backed guarantees had mostly collapsed,
Kolchinsky’s boss responded to an internal e-mail showing that
the firm’s CDO market share had fallen to 94 percent during the
quarter in which its new policy was announced, from typically
more than 98 percent, by demanding “an accounting of the
missing deals,” Kolchinsky said.  
 ‘Disturbing E-Mail’  
 “Despite the massive manifest errors in the ratings
assigned to structured finance securities and the market
implosion we were witnessing, it appeared to me that my manager
was more concerned about losing a few points of market share
than about violating the law,” Kolchinsky said.  
 It was “the most disturbing e-mail I had ever received in
my professional career,” he said.  
 “Moody’s is certainly not satisfied with the performance
of our ratings during the unprecedented market downturn of the
past two years,” Chief Executive Officer Raymond McDaniel said
in testimony prepared for today’s hearing. “Neither we -- nor
most other market participants, observers or regulators -- fully
anticipated the severity or speed of deterioration that occurred
in the U.S. housing market.”  
 Michael Adler, a Moody’s spokesman, declined to comment on
Kolchinsky’s testimony.  
 Kolchinsky said he later complained about a situation that
was “nearly identical” to what he saw in 2007, involving a
transaction called Nine Grade Funding II Ltd. The deal involved
a repackaging of collateralized loan obligations, which are CDOs
filled with corporate debt, according to Moody’s reports.  
 ‘Unfounded’ Allegations  
 In May 2009, Moody’s said it was placing under review for
downgrade $86.5 million of the CLO’s notes that it initially
granted its second-lowest investment-grade rating of Baa2 six
months earlier.  
 Goldman Sachs has called “unfounded” the SEC’s
allegations that the New York-based company improperly failed to
disclose that Paulson helped construct a mortgage-bond CDO with
a plan to bet against its classes granted top ratings by Moody’s
and S&P. The agency hasn’t accused New York-based Paulson, which
made $1 billion on the trade and $15 billion in total on bets
against home-loan debt before record defaults, of wrongdoing.  
 Kolchinsky said at the hearing that he “did not know”
that Paulson was betting against the CDO, called Abacus 2007-
AC1. “I’m fairly sure my staff didn’t know either. I would have
wanted to know.”  
 AAA Ratings  
 Rating-firm analysts were expressing concern that CDO
models were flawed in late 2006, according to e-mails released
by the Senate panel. CDOs were among the largest sources of the
almost $1.78 trillion of writedowns and credit losses suffered
by the world’s largest financial companies since 2007, according
to Bloomberg data.  
 The securitization underwritten this week by New York-based
Citigroup will be granted AAA ratings from Moody’s and not be
graded by other firms, said the people familiar with the matter,
who declined to be identified because the sale is private. About
74 percent of the mortgages, which have an average value of
$932,699 and 46 percent of which are on California properties,
allow borrowers to pay only interest for the first 10 years.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Eric Kolchinsky, a former managing director in the structured derivative products group at Moody's Investors Service, testifies at a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing in Washington, D.C., on April 23, 2010. Photographer: Melissa Golden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
