-- Mountaintop Coal Rules May Send Miners Underground
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-04-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/mountaintop-coal-rules-may-put-more-u-s-miners-in-risky-underground-jobs.html

          
          
             A U.S. crackdown on mountaintop
mining in Appalachia may force coal producers to rely
increasingly on underground sites such as the Massey Energy Co.
mine where 29 workers were killed this month in West Virginia.  
 Four days before the April 5 accident, the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency issued water-pollution
guidelines making it difficult for operators to secure permits
for new above-ground mining in the region. Explosions used in
surface mining produce millions of tons of crushed shale and
sandstone that is dumped into nearby valleys and streams.  
 The government’s effort to protect water quality will curb
the growth of mountaintop mining, with the unintended
consequence that more workers will be sent into tunnels where
the risks of death and injury are greater, according to Bob
Ferriter, senior mine-safety professional at the Colorado School
of Mines in Golden.  
 “In my experience with EPA, they are so fixated on water
quality, air quality, that sort of thing, I don’t think they
look at worker safety at all,” Ferriter said in an interview.
“I doubt that’s even been a consideration.”  
 The EPA decision affects above-ground mining in West
Virginia, Kentucky and six other states in the eastern U.S. The
agency declined to comment specifically on a possible increase
in underground mining and the safety implications of its ruling.  
 “Decisions about future coal production and mining
practices are based on a variety of factors, including coal
prices, mining costs, the nature of reserves, and type of
coal,” Enesta Jones, an EPA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  
 Sierra Club’s Stance  
 The Sierra Club has campaigned to end mountaintop mining,
which the San Francisco-based environmental group calls the most
environmentally damaging way to extract the fuel. The EPA’s
water-pollution guidelines mean mountaintop removal is coming to
an end in Appalachia, said Sierra Club Executive Director
Michael Brune.  
 “Switching from one type of mining to the other isn’t
really the problem” that puts miners at risk, Brune said in an
April 15 interview. “The lack of effective oversight is the
problem.”  
 President Barack Obama, who plans to attend an April 25
memorial for the West Virginia victims, criticized Massey and
ordered a review of industry safety violations in the wake of
the explosion at the company’s Upper Big Branch mine near
Montcoal. It was the worst U.S. coal-mine disaster in 40 years.  
 Massey defended its safety standards in a statement on
April 15 that said Obama “has been misinformed” about the
company’s record and about the industry. Investigators from the
Mine Safety and Health Administration are still trying to
determine the cause of the blast.  
 Deaths More Likely  
 Deaths in coal mining occurred at almost six times the rate
for all private industry in 2007, the most recent year for which
complete information is available, according to the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.  
 Within the mining industry, deaths are more than twice as
likely when coal is produced by tunneling compared with surface
mining, in which mountaintops are often blasted away to expose
the fuel, according to the bureau. Of 28 fatalities at U.S. coal
mines in 2007, 20 were at underground sites.  
 “Underground is more dangerous for the workers,” Michael
Hendryx, an associate professor of community medicine at West
Virginia University in Morgantown who studies the health of
rural populations like mining communities, said in an interview.
“If there’s a bigger shift to underground, it’s going to become
more important to enforce worker-safety regulations.”  
 ‘Hyper-Regulatory Environment’  
 Donald Blankenship, chief executive officer of Richmond,
Virginia-based Massey, cited the prospect of government
restrictions on mountaintop removal when his company said in
March it would buy Cumberland Resources Corp. for $960 million
in cash and stock. The deal will increase Massey’s production
from underground mines, Blankenship said on a March 17
conference call with analysts.  
 “The acquisition will also reduce our exposure to surface
mining,” Blankenship, 60, said. “This focus on underground
production can be a key advantage in the current hyper-
regulatory environment.”  
 Before acquiring Cumberland, just over half of Massey’s
production came from surface mines, up from 34 percent in 2000,
according to company filings. Nationally, more than 800,000 tons
of coal was produced at surface mines in 2008, more than double
the total from tunneling, according to the Energy Department.  
 “There’s no question that the government’s policy against
surface mining, which is aimed at protecting aquatic life, is
going to force companies to mine coal underground, which is more
costly and more difficult,” said Jeremy Sussman, an analyst at
Brean Murray Carret & Co. in New York.  
 Patriot Coal’s Hedge  
 After Patriot Coal Corp. completed the purchase of closely
held Magnum Coal Co. in 2008 for about $559 million in stock,
Chief Executive Officer Richard Whiting said Magnum’s
underground reserves would help serve as a hedge “if we have
difficulty on the surface side.”  
 “To the extent that companies may be finding it harder to
get surface-mining permits in Appalachia, some are relying more
upon underground assets,” said Carol Raulston, a spokeswoman
for the Washington-based National Mining Association.
“Certainly the underground environment poses additional
challenges. There has to be extra attention paid to safety.”  
 Rainwater flowing through the debris from mountaintop
mining carries dissolved metals into waters below, a potentially
harmful mix for humans and wildlife, the EPA says. The agency’s
April 1 announcement aims to reduce debris that may pollute
mountain waters.  
 Arch Coal’s Permit  
 The month before the EPA’s ruling, the agency proposed to
veto Arch Coal Inc.’s permit to dump mining debris at a site in
Logan County, West Virginia. The operation, originally issued a
permit in 2007, would bury more than 7 miles of streams and
threaten 2,278 acres of forests, the EPA said.  
 The EPA recently approved permits for several surface-
mining projects in Appalachia and expects to continue to do so
where such projects are consistent with clean-water regulations,
Jones, the spokeswoman, said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A mountain is leveled at a mining site just outside Charleston, West Virginia, U.S. on March 20, 2009.  "Mountain top removal mining," as it is called, vastly alters the landscape by clear-cutting forests and blasting away rock in the process of extracting coal.  Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Blooomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Mountains shown in this aerial view south west of Charleston, West Virginia, U.S., on March 20, 2009, are mined for coal in this photo courtesy of SouthWings, Inc. "Mountain top removal mining," as it is called, vastly alters the landscape by clear-cutting forests and blasting away rock in the process of extracting coal. Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
