-- Papandreou Slammed by Greek Unions, Opposition for Requesting Rescue Funds
-- Maria Petrakis
-- 2010-04-23T17:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/papandreou-slammed-by-greek-unions-opposition-for-requesting-rescue-funds.html

          
          
             Greek unions and opposition
political parties slammed Prime Minister George Papandreou for
seeking a bailout from the European Union and International
Monetary Fund that will bring more austerity measures.  
 ADEDY, the Athens-based federation representing the more
than 500,000 Greek civil servants who have seen wages cut this
year, said the move signaled a new and “barbaric attack,” and
called a protest rally for April 27. Another demonstration has
been set by the opposition Syriza party for today in Athens.  
 “This is a premeditated crime against Greek society,”
Alexis Tsipras, the head of Syriza said in an e-mailed
statement. “The majority of the Greek people are being tossed
helplessly in the tempest of insecurity, unemployment and
poverty.” He called for a referendum on the decision to seek
IMF support.  
 Papandreou, who announced today he will trigger the rescue
is under fire from voters and unions for raising taxes and
cutting wages to reduce a budget deficit that is more than four
times bigger than European Union rules allow. Greeks fear the EU
and IMF package, crafted to stem the country’s soaring borrowing
costs, will mean lower pensions and benefits, more wage cuts and
produce a deeper recession.  
 Taxes, Wages  
 The premier won elections in October promising to raise
wages of public workers and step up stimulus spending. Within
weeks of coming to power, the new administration discovered they
faced a 2009 budget deficit of 12.7 percent of gross domestic
product, more than twice the shortfall the defeated New
Democracy government had revealed. EU officials revised the
deficit further to 13.6 percent of GDP yesterday.  
 The shortfall derailed Papandreou’s spending plans and
forced him to raise taxes and cut wages to try to make good on a
pledge to cut the shortfall to 8.7 percent this year. Investors
shunned Greek bonds leaving the government struggling to finance
its debt. Papandreou’s popularity has declined, particularly
among the public workers who suffered the pay cuts and are the
traditional base of his socialist party.  
 “Papandreou needs to persuade the population that Greece
must take ownership of the adjustment program,” said Marco
Annunziata, chief economist for UniCredit Group in London.
“They are not a punishment arbitrarily inflicted by the IMF or
by the markets.”  
 Hungary Precedent  
 In Hungary, the first European Union member to turn to the
IMF, voters this month ousted the ruling Socialist party two
years after they accepted an IMF bailout after the global credit
crisis choked investments. Fiscal conditions attached to the $27
billion loan exacerbated the country’s recession as unemployment
soared to a record, souring support for the government.  
 A full dispersal of funds may have to wait as German
Chancellor Angela Merkel tries to win a regional election in
North Rhine-Westphalia next month in the face of voter
opposition to any Greek bailout. Merkel said today that Greece
must satisfy “very stringent conditions” if it’s to get the
funds.  
 Activating the rescue mechanism and turning over economic
policy to EU and IMF oversight is “a new Odyssey for Greece,”
Papandreou said. “But we know the road to Ithaca and have
charted the waters,” he said, referring to the return of
mythological hero Ulysses to his island home after a decade.  
 Confidence in Papandreou’s handling of the economy dropped
this month on deepening fears of new austerity measures. The
share of people trusting his management of the crisis fell to 47
percent from 55 percent in February, according to a survey of
540 Greeks by Public Issue for Skai radio.  
 Greek Harm?  
 Ninety-one percent of those surveyed said they expect a
wave of new fiscal measures from the IMF, around the same
proportion as in an April 18 poll for Eleftheros Typos
newspaper. The poll showed 51 percent believe the IMF will harm
the country, compared with 27 percent who said it would be of
benefit.  
 ADEDY has held four 24-hour national walkouts so far this
year. GSEE, the umbrella group representing 2 million private-
sector workers will meet next week to decide “how and when” to
strike, spokesman Stathis Anestis said.  
 “Papandreou spoke of a new Odyssey: heaven only knows how
long that will be,” Antonis Samaras, the leader of the main
opposition party, the center-right New Democracy which was
defeated by Papandreou’s socialist Pasok party in October.  
 Samaras said that while he had taken responsibility for the
previous government’s failures in some policies “the borrowing
crisis is exclusively the achievement of Pasok.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       George Papandreou, Greece's prime minister  
                       
                         
                           Jock Fistick/Bloomberg 
                         
                         George Papandreou, Greece's prime minister, gestures during a press briefing at the European Union Parliament headquarters in Brussels, on March 18, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     George Papandreou, Greece's prime minister, gestures during a press briefing at the European Union Parliament headquarters in Brussels, on March 18, 2010. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
