-- PBOC Adviser Says Chinese Property Crackdown to Curb Prices, Avert Crash
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-23T06:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/pboc-adviser-says-chinese-property-crackdown-to-curb-prices-avert-crash.html

          
          
             China’s measures to rein in
property bubbles will curb house prices while avoiding a crash,
said central bank adviser Li Daokui.  
 The government aims only to “curtail excessive price gains
in some areas,” Li said in a phone interview today. “Cities
such as Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen may experience some
correction but price declines won’t be more than 10 percent.”  
 Li’s view puts him at odds with BNP Paribas SA and
Citigroup Inc., which forecast that home prices may tumble as
much as 20 percent as measures to curb credit cool speculation.
Efforts to tame spiraling property prices will “strike a deadly
blow” against speculators, a government researcher wrote in the
China Daily yesterday.  
 “We’re not going to see significant downward pressure on
property prices,” said Glenn Maguire, chief Asia-Pacific
economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong. “This is not the
kind of policy environment to trigger distressed sales.”  
 Property prices in 70 Chinese cities surged by a record
11.7 percent in March from a year earlier, prompting the
government to announce measures last week that increased the
size of down payments, raised interest rates on second dwellings
and barred banks from funding purchases of third homes.  
 China’s State Council has approved a trial property tax
program in four cities, the Economic Observer reported yesterday
on its Web site, citing an unidentified person.  
 The trial will start in Beijing, Chongqing, and Shenzhen
and then in Shanghai following the World Expo, the report said.  
 The recently announced policies “will reduce demand from
investors and speculators who may find it more difficult to
finance their purchases,” Michael Wu, a director at Fitch
Ratings in Hong Kong, said in a statement today.  
 Social Problems  
 Li said the government is “resolute” in curbing price
rises. The latest crackdown on prices won’t lead to a property
market slump because more measures will follow to increase the
supply of lower-priced homes and that will “help stabilize the
market and drive property investment going forward,” he said.  
 The property market will not see price falls of 20 to 30
percent because that could “could lead to new social
problems,” Li said.  
 The government’s measures mean a “turning point” in the
real-estate market is “unavoidable,” Citigroup analysts Oscar
Choi and Marco Sze said in an April 22 report.  
 Housing prices in so-called first-tier and second-tier
cities are “clearly in a bubble,” BNP economists Chen Xingdong
and Isaac Meng said. “First-quarter property sales and prices
could be at a significant cyclical peak.”  
 Bursting the Bubble  
 Soaring real estate prices have prompted analysts including
former Morgan Stanley economist Andy Xie to call the nation’s
asset markets a bubble that will burst once the Chinese
government curbs credit.  
 China is “on a treadmill to hell,” with growth driven by
the “heroin of property development,” hedge fund manager James
Chanos said this month.  
 China’s stocks fell today, pushing the benchmark index
toward its biggest weekly decline in three months, on concern
government measures to curb the property market will hurt
corporate earnings.  
 A gauge of property stocks in the Shanghai Composite Index
has retreated more than 18 percent this year. Shares of China
Vanke Co., the biggest developer, have slid more than 27 percent.  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Li Daokui, professor of economics at Tsinghua University  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Li Daokui, professor of economics at Tsinghua University, speaks at a panel session on day one of the 2010 World Economic Forum (WEF) annual meeting in Davos, on Jan. 27, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Li Daokui, professor of economics at Tsinghua University, speaks at a panel session on day one of the 2010 World Economic Forum (WEF) annual meeting in Davos, on Jan. 27, 2010. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
