-- Pfizer Wins Patent Trial Over Teva's Copy of Heartburn Treatment Protonix
-- Susan Decker
-- 2010-04-23T20:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/pfizer-wins-patent-trial-over-teva-s-copy-of-heartburn-treatment-protonix.html

          
          
             Pfizer Inc.’s Wyeth unit and Altana
AG won a jury verdict on the validity of their patent for the
heartburn drug Protonix.  
 A federal jury in Newark, New Jersey, today rejected
arguments by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. that the patent covered an
obvious variation of earlier patented compounds in the same
family as Protonix.  
 Teva and Sun conceded they infringed the patent, which left
the jury with only the question of whether the patent was issued
properly. Teva, in a statement, said it can make additional
invalidity arguments to U.S. District Judge Jose Linares and a
decision “independent of today’s jury verdict would be
sufficient to invalidate the patent.”  
 Pfizer can now ask Linares to order Teva and Sun to stop
selling the drug until the patent expires in January. A second
trial would be held to determine what New York-based Pfizer
should be paid for profit lost since Teva and Sun began selling
cheaper versions of the drug two years ago.  
 “If we are successful at the end of this process, we will
be seeking the full measure of our damages,” Chris Loder, a
spokesman for Pfizer, said in an interview.  
 Reflux Disease  
 Protonix, whose chemical name is pantoprazole sodium, is a
proton pump inhibitor that reduces the secretion of stomach
acids and is used to treat the effects of gastroesophageal
reflux disease, or GERD, which cases heartburn and chronic
ulcers in the esophagus.  
 Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, acquired Protonix
last year as part of its $68 billion purchase of Wyeth.  
 Protonix sales reached $1.9 billion in 2007, and then fell
58 percent to $806 million in 2008, after Teva, based in Petah
Tikva, Israel, began selling its generic version. Mumbai-based
Sun entered the market in January 2008, a month after Teva.  
 Not all of the generic sales went to those two companies.
Wyeth began selling Protonix under its chemical name as a so-
called authorized generic to challenge Teva and Sun sales.  
 The patent, licensed to Wyeth, is owned by Altana’s
pharmaceutical business, which was bought by closely held
Nycomed Danmark ApS. AstraZeneca Plc’s Prilosec was the first
proton pump inhibitor. Others include AstraZeneca’s Nexium,
Novartis AG’s Prevacid and Johnson & Johnson’s Aciphex.  
 Lawsuit Pending  
 The U.S. and 16 states have a pending lawsuit claiming
Wyeth manipulated prices of the heartburn pill to increase
market share and defraud Medicare, the U.S. government health-
insurance program for the elderly. A judge in February denied
Pfizer’s request to dismiss the suit.  
 Wholesale drug distributors also have sued Wyeth and
Altana, accusing them of misleading the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office to obtain the patent and protect their monopoly
on Protonix. That case was put on hold until the patent case was
completed.  
 The case is Altana Pharma AG v. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA
Inc., 04cv2355, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        