-- Pimco's Gross to Sell $1M in Stamps for Medical Charity
-- Philip Boroff
-- 2010-04-23T21:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/pimco-s-gross-to-sell-1-million-in-stamps-for-medical-charity.html

          
          
             Bill Gross, who manages the world’s
biggest bond fund, is selling one of his most prized asset
classes, rare European stamps.  
 Spink Shreves Galleries in New York, which specializes in
philately, will auction 159 lots from Gross’s stamp collection,
with an estimated value of more than $1 million, on May 19 in
New York. The proceeds will benefit Doctors Without Borders,
known internationally as Medecins Sans Frontieres, which
delivers emergency health care to people engulfed by war or
natural disaster.  
 The support of Gross and his wife, Sue, “means that our
teams are able to respond to emergencies around the world at a
moment’s notice,” Doctors Without Borders President Matthew
Spitzer said in a statement.  
 The auction will be the sixth time in three years that
Gross has auctioned stamps at Spink Shreves for charity. The
first, in June 2007, totaled $9.1 million, benefiting Doctors
Without Borders. The 66-year-old runs Pimco’s Total Return Fund,
with assets of $219.7 billion.  
 “There will be a lot of interest,” said Rick Penko,
manager of the sale at the 344-year-old auction house. “A lot
of the images are iconic. All stamp collectors know these
stamps. Famous collectors in the past have held them.”  
 Gross wasn’t available for comment, Mark Porterfield, a
Pimco spokesman, said by e-mail.  
 Among the top lots is an 1849 “Tete-Beche” pair, with two
faces, one inverted. It was valued at $235,000 by the Scott
catalog, an industry standard published in Sidney, Ohio,
according to Penko. The stamps will be displayed in London and
New York before the sale.  
 Gross is an avid collector. Last year, he donated $8
million to the National Postal Museum in Washington to create a
gallery in his name that will display rare stamps from his
collection and from the National Stamp Collection. The gallery
is scheduled to open in 2012.  
 To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        