-- Roman Polanski Loses Bid to Be Sentenced in Absentia
-- Edvard Pettersson
-- 2010-04-23T20:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/polanski-loses-appeal-bid-to-be-sentenced-in-absentia-for-1977-sex-crime.html

          
          
             Movie director Roman Polanski lost
his appeal of a California judge’s ruling that he must come to
the U.S. to be sentenced for the 1977 case in which he pleaded
guilty to having sex with a 13-year-old girl.  
 Polanski “failed to demonstrate that the trial court
lacked the discretion” to refuse to allow him to be sentenced
without being present, a state appeals court in Los Angeles said
in a decision posted yesterday on its Web site.  
 The ruling may clear the way for the Swiss government to
decide on a U.S. extradition request. In an April 6 filing with
the appeals court, Polanski’s lawyers said the Swiss were
waiting on a decision whether Polanski could be sentenced in
absentia before taking steps on the extradition request.  
 “The Court of Appeal decision yesterday did not decide the
question of extradition,” Polanski’s lawyer Douglas Dalton said
in a statement today. “The formal U.S. extradition request
unquestionably contains a false sworn statement by Los Angeles
prosecutors about Mr. Polanski’s punishment which we have asked
the United States Department of Justice and the Swiss
authorities to investigate.”  
 House Arrest  
 Polanski, 76, has been under house arrest since November at
his chalet at the Gstaad ski resort in Switzerland. The
director, whose movies include “The Pianist,” for which he
received an Oscar, was arrested at Zurich airport Sept. 26 as he
arrived to collect an award at the city’s film festival.  
 “We await official information from the American
authorities,” Folco Galli, the spokesman for Switzerland’s
Ministry of Justice, said by telephone today. Any information
needs to be considered and Polanski’s extradition case isn’t
ready to be decided “at the touch of a button,” he said.  
 California prosecutors said in a filing with the Swiss
government that Polanski faces as long as two years in prison.  
 Lawyers for Polanski argued last month that Los Angeles
Superior Court Judge Peter Espinoza committed a legal error by
denying his request to be sentenced in absentia to the 42 days
he previously served in a California prison. Espinoza said in
January that Polanski, as a fugitive, wasn’t entitled to be
sentenced without returning to the U.S.  
 Polanski previously failed to persuade Espinoza or the
appeals court to dismiss the 32-year-old case because of alleged
judicial and prosecutorial misconduct. In a December ruling, the
appellate panel suggested that if Polanski wanted a hearing on
the allegations, he could ask to be sentenced in absentia.  
 Sandi Gibbons, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles District
Attorney Steve Cooley, said yesterday that the appeals court
made the appropriate decision and had no further comment.  
 Fled U.S.  
 Polanski fled the U.S. in 1978 before he was to be
sentenced. His lawyers asked the Superior Court in December 2008
to throw out the case because, they said, a prosecutor in 1977
and 1978 inappropriately influenced the judge, now deceased, to
renege on a promise to sentence Polanski only to the 42 days he
spent in prison for a diagnostic study.  
 The appeals court yesterday also rejected a request by the
victim, Samantha Geimer, for the case to be dismissed.  
 Polanski was initially charged with six felony counts on
allegations he drugged and raped then 13-year-old Geimer during
a photo shoot at actor Jack Nicholson’s house. Polanski later
pleaded guilty to one count of unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor after the girl’s family asked prosecutors to avoid a jury
trial.  
 The director, a French and Polish citizen, has lived in
Paris since fleeing the U.S.  
 The case is Roman Polanski v. Superior Court of Los
Angeles, B223085, California Court of Appeals, Second District
(Los Angeles).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        