-- Polish Yields May Touch Four-Year Low on Chance of Rate Cuts, Pioneer Says
-- Pawel Kozlowski
-- 2010-04-23T08:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/polish-yields-may-hit-four-year-low-on-chance-of-rate-cuts-pioneer-says.html

          
          
             Polish bonds may extend gains,
pushing yields to the lowest level in four years, as the central
bank is more likely to cut than raise interest rates to slow the
zloty’s gain, according to Pioneer Pekao Investment Management
SA, the country’s biggest mutual fund manager.  
 The yield on the 10-year bonds may drop to 5 percent, the
lowest since April 2006, from 5.54 percent yesterday, as the
country’s “longer-dated” debt offers “the best value,”
Ryszard Trepczynski, chief investment officer at the company,
which manages the equivalent of $5.8 billion, said in an
interview in Warsaw.  
 Zloty bonds posted their biggest rally in more than a year
in the first quarter as inflation slowed and the only European
Union economy to avoid recession through the credit crisis lured
investors. Policy makers sought to weaken the  zloty by buying
foreign exchange on April 9 for the first time since 1998 after
the currency rallied 6.4 percent in the first quarter, its best
quarterly performance since 2004.  
 “There is still some room for bond yields to fall,”
Trepczynski said. “An interest-rate cut that would reduce the
incentive to buy the currency offers an alternative to currency
intervention. I think there is no risk of quick interest-rate
increases and expect a cut more than a hike.”  
 The central bank has kept its benchmark rate unchanged
since June at 3.5 percent. That compares with 1 percent at the
European Central Bank and a near-zero U.S. Federal Reserve rate.
Decreasing Polish interest rates would discourage so-called
carry trades, in which investors buy higher-yielding assets with
amounts borrowed in nations with low interest rates.  
 ‘Temporary Easing’  
 A decline in the main rate to 3 percent is “what I can
easily imagine,”  Trepczynski said.  
 Some Polish monetary policy makers argued in March for a
“temporary easing” in response to the zloty appreciation,
before the panel decided that a rate cut would require greater
tightening later, according to the minutes of the bank’s March
meeting published yesterday.  
 Inflation slowed to 2.6 percent last month, the least since
2007, from 2.9 percent in February.  
 Yields have dropped to the lowest levels in three years as
the country returned to the debt market in the past two weeks
following a plane crash April 10 that killed the country’s top
officials including President Lech Kaczynski and central bank
Governor Slawomir Skrzypek.  
 Biggest Demand  
 Investors bid this week for 6.62 billion zloty of bonds
maturing in April 2015, the biggest demand for similar-maturity
debt since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008 triggered the seizure of global credit markets.  
 International investors increased holdings of zloty-
denominated government securities to a record 95.1 billion zloty
through the end of February, Piotr Marczak, the head of the
Finance Ministry’s public debt department, said on March 31.
Poland met 39 percent of its 196.8 billion zloty of gross
borrowing needs for 2010 in the first quarter through the sale
of domestic debt and bonds in euros and Swiss francs, he said.  
 Poland’s economy will expand 3 percent this year,
accelerating from 1.8 percent growth in 2009, based on
government estimates. Euro-area expansion may increase to 1
percent in 2010, following a 3.9 percent contraction last year,
according to International Monetary Fund data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        