-- Pope Accepts Resignation of Belgian Bishop, Criticizes U.S. Abuse Lawsuit
-- Lorenzo Totaro
-- 2010-04-23T16:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/pope-accepts-resignation-of-belgian-bishop-criticizes-u-s-abuse-lawsuit.html

          
          
             Pope Benedict XVI accepted the
resignation of a Belgian bishop who admitted to molesting a
minor, as the Vatican reiterated that a U.S. lawsuit against the
Holy See for a separate abuse case is “without merit.”  
 Roger Vangheluwe, the bishop of Bruges, admitted in a
statement posted on the Vatican’s Web site today that he had
sexually abused a minor early in his career. “I have asked for
forgiveness, but this did not pacify him, as it did not pacify
me,” Belgium’s longest-serving bishop said.  
 Vangheluwe, 73, resigned “out of respect for the victim
and his family, and out of respect for the truth,” Archbishop
Andre-Mutien Leonard, the head of the Belgian Catholic Church,
said in the statement.  
 Benedict has struggled to respond to a wave of sexual-abuse
allegations against priests, and victims groups have accused him
of covering up cases during his previous stints as archbishop of
Munich and head of the Vatican’s doctrinal office. Benedict this
week vowed “action” against clerical sexual-abuse after he met
on April 18 with victims in Malta.  
 The Vatican, citing its U.S. attorney Jeffrey Lena, today
reiterated that it wasn’t notified about alleged sexual abuse of
children by a Wisconsin priest until 20 years after the acts
were said to have taken place, and said that a related lawsuit
against the Holy See, filed at a federal court in Milwaukee, is
“completely without merit.”  
 Milwaukee Case  
 Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi first commented on the
case in a March 25 response to a New York Times article that
said the future pope, as Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, had failed
to respond to two 1996 letters from Milwaukee’s archbishop
seeking action against the priest, Father Lawrence Murphy. At
the time, Ratzinger headed the Vatican congregation charged with
enforcing church doctrine.  
 “While legitimate lawsuits have been filed by abuse
victims, this is not one of them,” the Vatican press office
said today. “The lawsuit represents an attempt to use tragic
events as a platform for a broader attack.”  
 Benedict, 83, who marked the fifth anniversary of his
papacy this week, yesterday accepted the resignation of Irish
Bishop James Moriarty following a report into Catholic
officials’ handling of child sex-abuse allegations. Another
Irish bishop, John Magee, stepped down last month.  
 Augsburg Bishop Walter Mixa, a leader of Germany’s Catholic
Church, offered his resignation amid charges he beat children
and misappropriated funds. He said in a letter to the pontiff
that he no longer wanted to burden priests and the faithful in
his southern Bavarian diocese with the allegations, according to
an April 22 statement posted on the Augsburg diocese’s Web site.  
 Mixa, 68, has not been accused of any sexual misconduct.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Scandal in Belgium  
                       
                         
                           Benoit Doppagne/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Archbishop Andre-Joseph Leonard talks to the press after a press conference regarding the resignation of Brugge's bishop Roger Vangheluwe (not present), in Brussels, on April 23, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Archbishop Andre-Joseph Leonard talks to the press after a press conference regarding the resignation of Brugge's bishop Roger Vangheluwe (not present), in Brussels, on April 23, 2010.  Photographer: Benoit Doppagne/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
