-- British Pound Declines Against Euro as U.K. GDP Growth Misses Estimates
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-04-23T16:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/pound-rises-versus-euro-on-speculation-economy-expanded-in-first-quarter.html

          
          
             The pound weakened against the euro
after data showed the U.K. economy grew half the pace economists
predicted in the first three months of this year.  
 Sterling fell against all but three of its 16 most-traded
counterparts on speculation that the May 6 general election will
fail to produce a government with a parliamentary majority.
Gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent in the first quarter,
the Office for National Statistics said today, against the
median estimate of 0.4 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 32
economists.  
 “It’s difficult to bet on a rally in the pound when
there’s a lot of uncertainty in terms of growth and the fiscal
outlook,” said Chiara Cremonesi, a currency and fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit SpA in London. “The result of the
election next month is crucial for the pound. The market is very
nervous that it will result in a hung parliament.”  
 The pound weakened to 87.01 pence per euro as of 5:32 p.m.
in London, from 86.45 pence per euro yesterday, after trading at
86.08 pence earlier, the strongest since Jan. 28. It was little
changed at $1.5362.  
 Concern that Britain will elect a government too weak to
narrow a budget deficit that’s the biggest among the Group of
Seven nations has helped send the pound lower this year against
14 of 16 of its most-traded peers tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Hung Parliament  
 Conservative leader David Cameron failed to derail the
Liberal Democrats’ Nick Clegg in the U.K. campaign’s second
televised debate yesterday, four instant polls showed, pointing
to the likelihood of a so-called hung parliament with Prime
Minister Gordon Brown’s Labour Party as the largest bloc.  
 Gilts fell as stocks rose around Europe after Greek Prime
Minister George Papandreou said his government requested a
European Union-brokered loan to help the southern Mediterranean
country shore up its finances. The FTSE 100 Index climbed 1
percent.  
 “Gilts declined along with German bonds amid speculation
that Greece might seek a loan,” said Peter Chatwell, a fixed-
income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment
Bank in London. “If that happens, Greece would be able to avoid
default for now. This reduces demand for safe-haven AAA
assets.”  
 The yield on the 10-year gilt rose 6 basis points to 4.04
percent. The 3.75 percent security maturing 2019 declined 0.44,
or 4.4 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 97.74. The two-
year note yield rose to 1.30 percent, near the highest since
March 9.  
 Gilts underperformed U.S. Treasuries and top-rated European
bonds this year, handing investors a 0.9 percent return compared
with 3.23 percent from German debt and 1.31 percent from
Treasuries.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        