-- Prudential Plc Plans Secondary Listing in Singapore as It Expands in Asia
-- Kevin Crowley
-- 2010-04-23T07:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/prudential-plans-secondary-listing-in-singapore-to-boost-shareholder-base.html

          
          
             Prudential Plc, the U.K. insurer
buying American International Group Inc.’s main Asian unit,
applied for a secondary listing in Singapore as it seeks to
expand its shareholder base in the region.  
 The insurer has made an application to Singapore Exchange
Securities Trading Ltd. and expects the listing to be effective
on May 11, London-based Prudential said today in a statement.
Prudential also expects to list its shares on the Hong Kong
Stock Exchange on May 11, it said.  
 The listings will give Asian investors more opportunities
to buy Prudential stock before its $35.5 billion purchase of AIA
Group Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Tidjane Thiam needs 75
percent of investors to back a $20 billion rights offer to fund
the deal. British investors including Brown Shipley & Co. Ltd.
and Killik & Co. have questioned the price being paid for AIA.  
 “This is an effort to populate the register with Asian
shareholders who are more supportive of the deal,” said Eamonn
Flanagan, a Liverpool-based analyst at Shore Capital Group Ltd.
with a “buy” rating on Prudential. “It’s still uncertain
this deal is going to go ahead because 75 percent is a high
hurdle rate.”  
 The shares fell 0.5 percent to 543 pence at 8:25 a.m.
in London, valuing the insurer at 13.8 billion pounds ($21.2
billion). The stock, which declined 7.2 percent between April 21
and yesterday, closed at 602.5 pence on Feb. 26, the last
trading day before the acquisition was announced.  
 Short Positions  
 U.S. hedge funds Lansdowne Partners LP and Mason Capital
Management LLC yesterday disclosed short positions in
Prudential. In a short sale, a trader borrows stock and sells it
in the hope of buying it back more cheaply later.  
 The short sellers “are betting the rights issue price
is set so low it’s very, very dilutive for shareholders,”
Flanagan said.  
 Investors who have bought the stock in Hong Kong by May 24
will be able to take part in the rights offer, Prudential said
in the statement. Investors will be able to take up their rights
in the U.K. from May 28 through June 14, Prudential said. The
prospectus for the deal will be published on May 5 and the vote
to approve the share sale will be held on May 27.  
 “The two new listings will enable investors in Asia to
participate in the outstanding growth potential that Prudential
offers,” Thiam said in the statement.  
 Prudential is “committed” to its London listing, Thiam
said. London and Hong Kong will act as primary exchanges for the
company’s stock and Singapore will be a secondary listing,
Prudential said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        