-- PZU, Biggest European IPO Since 2007, Priced for 20% Gain, Pioneer Says
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-04-23T13:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/pzu-shares-may-gain-20-after-record-2-8-billion-polish-ipo-pioneer-says.html

          
          
             Poland’s PZU SA may rally 20
percent from the price set for Europe’s biggest initial public
offering since 2007, according to Pioneer Pekao Investment
Management SA, the country’s largest mutual fund manager.  
 The 8.1 billion-zloty ($2.8 billion) sale of shares began
this week with the government and Dutch investor Eureko BV
taking orders for 30 percent of the country’s largest insurer.
The shares are being offered to institutional investors for
283.5 zloty to 312.5 zloty each, according to a term sheet
obtained by Bloomberg. Bookbuilding ends April 29 and PZU will
start trading in Warsaw close to May 14, according to the sale
prospectus.  
 “With this price range the company is attractively valued
and we expect the final price to be set near the upper end of
the range,” Ryszard Trepczynski, chief investment officer at
Pioneer Pekao, which manages the equivalent of $5.8 billion,
said in an interview in Warsaw. “We see price upside potential
of 15 percent to 20 percent.”  
 PZU is Poland’s biggest offering since the Warsaw Stock
Exchange was created in 1991 and Europe’s largest since Spanish
wind-park operator Iberdrola Renovables SA raised about $6.55
billion in December 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The offering is part of the government’s plan to
raise a record $10 billion from asset sales this year to help
finance its widening budget deficit.  
 Low Valuation  
 The company will have a total market value of about $9.2
billion based on the maximum price and will trade at 10.3 times
its 2010 net income, according to estimates by Bank Zachodni WBK
SA’s brokerage. That’s less than the 12.6 times estimated
earnings for Vienna Insurance Group, now central Europe’s
largest publicly traded insurer with a market capitalization
equivalent to $6.5 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  
 PZU weighting in Poland’s benchmark WIG20 Index will
probably be 6 to 7 percent, making it the sixth-largest stock,
Trepczynski said. That weighting combined with the company’s
“solid” position on the local market and dividend payout
prospects make the shares attractive, he said.  
 The WIG20 earlier this month climbed to the highest level
since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
2008. It has soared 87 percent from a low in February 2009, as
growth in the only European Union economy to avert a recession
through the credit crisis accelerates. The economy will likely
expand 3 percent this year, from 1.8 percent growth in 2009.  
 Record Offerings  
 Equity offerings may increase to a record 40 billion zloty
this year as the government speeds up asset sales and private
businesses seek cash for expansion, according to Pioneer’s
estimates. Kulczyk Oil Ventures Inc., the oil and gas
exploration company owned by Polish billionaire Jan Kulczyk, is
starting an IPO next week to raise $265 million.  
 The government is pushing ahead with stock offerings even
after a plane crash on April 10 killed top Polish officials
including President Lech Kaczynski and the central bank
governor. Poland this year plans to sell shares in IPOs of
Tauron Polska Energia SA, the country’s second-largest utility,
and the Warsaw Stock Exchange.  
 Poland’s last major IPO has brought investors losses as
state-owned PGE SA, the biggest Polish power producer, fell 3.9
percent below its offer price. The 5.97 billion-zloty share sale
was the largest in Europe last year. The shares declined as the
government prepares to sell an additional stake this year, as
well as stock in rival Tauron.  
 PGE’s stock price was affected by other share sales in the
industry, said Trepczynski. “In the case of PZU, there’s only
one insurer up for sale and it’s the biggest on the market.”  
 Pioneer Pekao is 51 percent-owned by Pioneer Global Asset
Management SpA. The remaining stake belongs to Bank Pekao SA,
Poland’s biggest bank. Both Pioneer and Pekao are units of
Italy’s UniCredit SpA.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        