-- Treasuries Head for Weekly Decline on Recovery Signs, Record Debt Supply
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-04-23T04:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/treasuries-head-for-weekly-decline-on-recovery-signs-record-debt-supply.html

          
          
             Treasuries headed for a weekly loss,
snapping two weeks of gains, as signs the economy is improving
and the government’s plans to sell a record amount of debt
overshadowed concern Greece will default.  
 Two-year notes were poised for the biggest weekly decline
this month before government reports that economists said will
show bookings for durable goods rose for a fourth month and new
home sales ended four months of declines. The Treasury will sell
a record $129 billion in notes next week, with the auctions to
be held on four consecutive days beginning April 26.  
 “A slew of data continues to show an improvement in the
economy,” said Masahide Tanaka, a senior strategist in Tokyo at
Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest
banking group. “Investors are still inclined to spend more
money on riskier assets than fixed-income securities.”  
 The two-year note yielded 1.02 percent as of 1:35 p.m. in
Tokyo, having risen seven basis points this week, according to
BGCantor Market Data. The 1 percent security maturing in March
2012 traded at 99 30/32.  
 The benchmark 10-year yield was little changed this week at
3.76 percent.  
 Bookings for goods meant to last several years rose 0.2
percent in March, following a 0.9 percent increase the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg News survey before today’s
Commerce Department report. Purchases of new homes climbed 5.5
percent to an annual pace of 325,000, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey.  
 Fundamental View  
 “From an economic fundamental viewpoint, it would not be a
surprise if the 10-year yield traded above 4 percent,” said
Shinji Nomura, chief debt strategist in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial
Securities Inc., part of Japan’s third-largest banking group.  
 Initial claims for jobless benefits dropped by 24,000 to
456,000 last week, the Labor Department said yesterday. Producer
prices rose 0.7 percent in March, more than economists forecast,
the Labor Department said.  
 The 10-year yield dropped to a four-week low yesterday as
the European Union said Greece’s budget deficit was larger than
previously estimated and Moody’s Investors Service cut the
nation’s credit rating.  
 “Strenuous concerns over sovereign problems in Greece will
encourage money managers to shift asset allocation away from
euro-denominated debts and into Treasuries,” said Kazumasa
Yamaoka, a senior analyst in Tokyo at GCI Capital Co., which
advises on currencies, overseas investments and hedge funds.  
 ‘Persistently High’  
 Greece’s debt problems are worsening and affecting the rest
of Europe as long-term holders of the nation’s bonds sell the
securities because of “persistently high and volatile
spreads,” said Mohamed A. El-Erian, whose company runs the
world’s biggest mutual fund.  
 The volatility represents a “technical factor” that will
gain momentum unless there is massive official funding for the
nation or Greek spreads widen far enough to attract sufficient
buyers of distressed debt, said El-Erian, co-chief investment
officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.  
 The U.S. will sell $44 billion in two-year notes, $42
billion in five-year securities, $32 billion in debt maturing in
seven years and $11 billion in five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities next week, the Treasury said yesterday.  
 President Barack Obama has boosted marketable U.S. debt to
a record $7.76 trillion, Treasury figures show. Obama’s proposed
budget calls for a $1.6 trillion budget deficit in 2010,
compared with last year’s record $1.4 trillion shortfall.  
 ‘Shifted Toward Supply’  
 “The market has had so much to digest between Greece,
economic data and the impending supply,” said Tom Porcelli,
senior economist in New York at Royal Bank of Canada, one of the
18 primary dealers that trade directly with the Federal Reserve.
“The focus of the market has shifted toward supply, where we
are seeing cheapening to build in a concession.”  
 U.S. notes are becoming more attractive as investors
seeking safety because of Greece buy German debt and push bund
yields down, said Hiromasa Nakamura, a senior investor in Tokyo
at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which has the equivalent of
$20.3 billion in assets.  
 “Treasuries are now relatively cheap compared to bunds,”
Nakamura said.  
 U.S. 10-year notes yield 71 basis points more than similar-
maturity German securities. The spread was 90 basis points on
April 5, the most since 2006.  
 The spread will narrow to 60 basis points by mid-year as
U.S. yields fall faster than German ones, Nakamura said. A
rising risk of deflation will also support U.S. bonds, he said.  
 Treasuries have returned 1.5 percent this year, while
German bonds have handed dollar-based investors a loss of 4.3
percent, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Yasuhiko Seki in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        