-- Treasury Asks U.S. Primary Dealers How to Reduce Coupon Auction Sizes
-- Rebecca Christie
-- 2010-04-23T16:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/treasury-asks-u-s-primary-dealers-how-to-reduce-coupon-auction-sizes.html

          
          
             The U.S. Treasury Department asked
bond dealers about the best way to shrink the size of its long-
term debt auctions as economy recovers and the government no
longer needs to expand its borrowing calendar.  
 “Debt managers are contemplating a reduction in coupon
sizes as the fiscal outlook improves. How should Treasury
accomplish such a reduction?” the Treasury asked in a quarterly
survey.  
 The agenda for April 30 meetings shows the Treasury’s
effort to watch for market disruptions and manage record
borrowing. The U.S. is braced for a second consecutive year of
$1 trillion-plus budget deficits as the economy recovers from
the worst recession since the Great Depression.  
 The Treasury also is weighing how to expand sales of
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, and
considering the effect of new Securities and Exchange Commission
rules on money-market mutual fund holdings.  
 The department asked dealers for their views on adding TIPS
auctions, potentially through a second reopening of 10-year
inflation-linked notes.  
 “What considerations should Treasury keep in mind?” the
Treasury asked. “Going forward, what other changes regarding
TIPS issuance should Treasury be evaluating?”  
 Dealers were asked how the Treasury short-term debt market
may be influenced by SEC changes to its 2a-7 rule, which affects
the liquidity and weighted average maturity required for money
market mutual funds.  
 “Please discuss how these changes may impact the demand
for Treasury bills and any effects they may have on broader
Treasury repo and cash market functioning,” the department
said.  
 Issuance Projections  
 The Treasury also asked dealers for their projections of
Treasury’s bill and bond issuance.  
 “We expect the Treasury to start to reduce its note and
bond offering sizes gradually in order to bring its coupon
issuance into line with the underlying trend in its borrowing
needs,” said Louis Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP
in Jersey City, New Jersey.  
 Treasury officials will meet next week with nine of the 18
primary dealers in government securities. The department will
release its borrowing needs on May 3, with the announcement of
quarterly sales of long-term debt scheduled for May 5.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        