-- Redwood Trust, Citigroup End Two-Year Residential Mortgage-Bond Drought
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-04-23T22:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/redwood-citigroup-offering-ends-two-year-drought-in-mortgage-backed-bonds.html

          
          
             Redwood Trust Inc. and Citigroup
Inc. partnered to create the first new-mortgage securities
without government-backed guarantees in more than two years,
selling $222.4 million of the debt at lower yields than
initially offered.  
 The AAA rated securities pay an initial coupon of 3.75
percent, according to a statement from Mill Valley, California-
based Redwood, the jumbo-mortgage specialist that issued the
bonds through an affiliate and will retain a lower-ranking
interest in the underlying pool of $237.8 million of loans.  
 The offering ends a drought in the $1.5 trillion non-agency
mortgage-bond market, where more than $200 billion of jumbo-loan
securities were issued in each year from 2003 to 2006. The
underlying loans are safer than ones backing such bonds before
housing collapsed, said Thomas Atteberry of First Pacific
Advisors in Los Angeles, who bought some of the debt.  
 The higher quality of the loans, especially the fact that
the mortgages represent only 60 percent of the value of the
properties, makes “me feel comfortable I’m covered if something
goes awry,” said Atteberry, who shared Morningstar Inc.’s 2008
fixed-income manager of the year award with a colleague after
predicting non-agency mortgage securities would plunge.  
 Today, “the availability of mortgage product is next to
nothing,” and that stoked demand as investors looked for higher
yields, said Atteberry. The lower supply includes a dearth of
agency home-loan securities, which are backed by government-
supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or federal agency Ginnie
Mae.  
 Underlying Mortgages  
 Citigroup extended the 255 underlying mortgages, which have
an average size of $932,699, in the new bonds in the past 11
months, people familiar with the matter said April 21. The bank
underwrote the sale with JPMorgan Chase & Co. as co-manager.  
 Alex Samuelson, a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
and Mike McMahon, a spokesman for Redwood, declined to comment.  
 Jumbo mortgages are those larger than the limits for Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, currently $417,000 in most places and as
much as $729,750 in high-cost areas.  
 After tumbling to as low as 63 cents on the dollar in March
2009, typical prices climbed to 85 cents last week for
outstanding senior securities backed by fixed-rate prime-jumbo
loans from the few years just before the issuance halted,
according to Barclays Plc. Several types of senior mortgage
securities from 2004 or earlier fetch more than face value,
according to Guggenheim Securities LLC.  
 Jumbo-Loan Securities  
 The jumbo-loan securities being sold by Citigroup pay 3.75
percent for the first 52 months and then may carry floating
interest rates that equal the rates on the underlying mortgages
minus 0.76 percentage point, according to preliminary term sheet
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 The Fed has helped generate demand for riskier securities
by draining $1.25 trillion of debt from the market for agency
mortgage bonds, in a 15-month program that ended March 31.  
 The amount of outstanding fixed-rate securities in that
$5.4 trillion market, the most liquid type, will be unchanged
this year as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac buy a record amount of
delinquent debt out of their securities, and as home sales and
refinancing remain limited, according to JPMorgan analyst Matt
Jozoff.  
 Redwood, a real-estate investment trust, lost $1.6 billion
in 2007 and 2008, before earning $39 million last year. The REIT
shifted to buying older non-agency mortgage securities at
beaten-down prices after issuance halted.  
 Alternative Investment  
 The company would make about 10 percent annually on its
portion of the transaction if there are no defaults on the
loans, said Bose George, an equity analyst at Keefe Bruyette &
Woods in New York, who suggests that investors buy Redwood
shares.  
 “The deal wasn’t done because it was hugely accretive to
Redwood’s earnings, it was done to get the market moving,” he
said in a telephone interview. “It opens the door up to doing
more of these securitizations.”  
 A potential alternative investment to the senior classes
sold today would be Fannie Mae securities backed by older 15-
year mortgages, Atteberry said. Those bonds, he said, may yield
2.3 percent to 2.8 percent depending on their average lives,
which will vary depending on the extent of home sales and
refinancing and he estimated at 2.5 years to 3 years.  
 Moody’s Investors Service will be the only ratings firm to
grade the Redwood securities. On April 20, the company
downgraded $1 billion of securities issued by Redwood’s Sequoia
Mortgage Trust from 2005 through 2007, including from its last
transaction in August 2007. The originally AAA rated, $42
million most-senior class was lowered to B1, four steps below
investment grade.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        