-- Tremonti Says `Beautiful' Germany Ignores Greece Fiscal `Fire' at Own Risk
-- Flavia Krause-Jackson
-- 2010-04-23T19:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/tremonti-says-beautiful-germany-ignores-greece-fiscal-fire-at-own-risk.html

          
          
             Italy’s Finance Minister Giulio
Tremonti said Germany won’t be safe if the “fire” from
Greece’s fiscal woes spreads to the rest of the region and urged
Europe’s biggest economy to take part in an aid package.  
 “If your neighbor’s house catches fire, it’s not to your
advantage to sit back and do nothing,” Tremonti told reporters
in Washington today. If you don’t step in, “you cannot fool
yourself into thinking that just because your house is bigger
and more beautiful, that it won’t be at risk. In case you are
wondering, I am speaking about Germany.”  
 Greece today called for activation of an aid package of as
much as 45 billion euros ($60 billion) this year in an
unprecedented test of the euro’s stability and European
political cohesion. In a sign she will not be rushed, German
Chancellor Angela Merkel said today the Greek government must
first satisfy “very stringent conditions.”  
 Germany, as the European Union’s biggest net contributor,
would pay about 8.4 billion euros of the EU aid package. Italy,
Europe’s fourth-biggest economy, said its share would be capped
at 5.5 billion euros, according to an official who spoke today
on condition of anonymity.  
 Higher Borrowing Costs  
 Greece’s request comes two weeks before a regional election
in Germany’s biggest state, as polls show voters unwilling to
rescue Greece. It also follows a surge in borrowing costs to
what Prime Minister George Papandreou calls unsustainable
levels. He will meet on Sunday with IMF Managing Director
Dominique Strauss-Kahn.  
 Sixty-one percent of Germans are opposed to their
government providing financial aid to Greece, with just 20
percent supporting the proposal, the Financial Times reported
last month, citing an FT/Harris poll of 5,200 people conducted
between March 3 and March 10.  
 The Greek government must negotiate a “credible savings
program” with the European Commission and the International
Monetary Fund, Merkel told reporters today in Berlin. The IMF,
the commission and the European Central Bank have to determine
“whether an aid program for Greece is needed for the euro’s
stability.”  
 Other countries, such as France and Spain, have been more
forthcoming in their willingness to support Greece. French
Finance Minister Christine Lagarde said today “the process is
under way” and “everyone now has to do their homework.”
Speaking to reporters in Washington, she said she expected
French aid to be ready and cleared by parliament by May 6.  
 European policy makers have so far only spelled out the aid
that Greece would receive over the next year, sparking concerns
about how the country will finance itself beyond 2011. The extra
yield that investors demand to hold Greek 10-year debt over
bunds has surged more than 200 basis points since the start of
last week and rose as high as 590 basis points today.  
 -- With assistance from Tony Czuczka and Patrick Donahue in
Berlin. Editors: Paul Badertscher, Andrew Barden  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        