-- Canadian Stocks Advance as Caterpillar Beats Analyst Forecasts
-- Matt Walcoff
-- 2010-04-26T20:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/research-in-motion-west-fraser-timber-shares-canada-stock-market-preview.html

          
          
             Canadian stocks  rose for a sixth
day after Caterpillar Inc. reported profit that beat estimates
and BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd. gained after
announcing a new Web browser.  
 RIM climbed 3.2 percent as top executives spoke to analysts
at a conference in Orlando, Florida. Caterpillar equipment
dealer Finning International Inc. gained 3.8 percent after the
world’s largest maker of construction equipment posted its first
earnings increase in seven quarters. Greystar Resources Ltd.
plunged 45 percent after the Colombian government demanded it
make environmental changes.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  rose 41.33
points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,280.97. The index rallied  1.4
percent  last week as companies including EnCana Corp., Boeing
Co. and American Express Co. beat average analyst earnings
estimates and the U.S. reported higher home sales and durable-
goods orders than economists forecast.  
 “It’s a combination of the earnings that are coming in
better than expected and some incremental economic data that has
been more positive,” said  Caterina Prato , who co-manages more
than C$4 billion ($4 billion) in Canadian domestic mutual funds
at AGF Management Ltd. in Toronto. “Most investors, if they’re
looking at the long term, are wondering what the sustainability
for this data is.”  
 Since the current earnings-reporting season began April 12,
85 percent of S&P 500 companies and six of nine S&P/TSX
companies have surpassed their average analyst forecast.  
 Raises Forecast  
 Caterpillar  said it earned 50 cents a share in the first
quarter, topping the average estimate of 21 analysts by 28
percent, excluding certain items. The company, based in Peoria,
Illinois, said it may earn as much as $3.25 a share this year,
compared with a January forecast of about $2.50.  
 Finning , which operates in Canada, South America and the
U.K., gained 3.8 percent to an 18-month high of C$19.73.  
 Commodities producers  contributed the most to the S&P/TSX’s
increase. Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp., which produces heavy
crude oil in Colombia, rallied 3 percent to C$21.90 after
announcing exploration results.  
 Environmental Demands  
 Greystar Resources, owner of the Angostura gold and silver
project in Colombia, tumbled 45 percent, the most since 2000, to
C$3.60. Environmental officials have placed demands on the mine
that would require the project to be “completely redesigned,”
the company said in a press release.  
 Ventana Gold Corp., which also explores for gold in the
South American country, sank as much as 16 percent intraday
before announcing that the environmental law affecting Greystar
will have no impact on Ventana. The company ended the day down
3.2 percent to C$9.30.  
 Panelboard maker Norbord Inc. surged 8.8 percent to C$21.45
after Royal Bank analyst  Paul C. Quinn  raised his 12-month price
estimate on the company to C$29 from C$26. Quinn cited an
outlook for higher prices for oriented strand board, a product
Norbord makes. Norbord shares have soared 36 percent this month  
 RIM gained for the first time in seven days, rallying 3.2
percent to C$72.87. The company said a new Web browser, designed
for touchscreen and trackpad devices, will be released in the
next calendar quarter.  
 Royal Bank climbed 0.8 percent to C$62.20. Bank of Montreal
analyst  John Reucassel  raised his rating on Royal Bank to
“outperform” from “market perform,” writing that it “has
among the most attractive potential earnings growth rates”
among Canadian banks in part because of its large asset
management and insurance operations.  
 Two-Year High  
 Bank of Montreal, the fourth-biggest bank in the country,
rose 0.7 percent C$65.41  the highest price  since October 2007.  
 An index of consumer-discretionary stocks advanced to the
highest level in 19 months after analyst  Candice Williams  of
Genuity Capital Markets raised her rating on Rona Inc. to
“buy” from “hold,” citing “favorable housing market
conditions.”  
 Rona, which  competes  with Lowe’s Cos. in Canada, jumped 3.7
percent to C$16.95. Canadian Tire Corp., the country’s biggest
chain of hardware stores, increased 3.2 percent to C$58.18.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        