-- Bosch Wins Windshield-Wiper Patent Ruling Against Pylon From Delaware Jury
-- Phil Milford
-- 2010-04-23T22:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/robert-bosch-wins-wiper-patent-ruling-against-pylon-from-jury-in-delaware.html

          
          
             A U.S. unit of Robert Bosch GmbH,
the German auto-parts maker, won a ruling from a jury today that
rival Pylon Manufacturing Corp. infringed one of its valid
patents for high-performance windshield wipers.  
 The federal court jury in Wilmington, Delaware, deliberated
about five hours after a six-day trial before also deciding that
some claims of two other Bosch wiper patents are invalid because
the inventions obviously weren’t new.  
 Pylon copied Bosch’s wiper because it “wanted to
capitalize” on Bosch’s success, Bosch attorney Mark Hannemann
told the jury of seven women and three men during the trial.  
 Pylon lawyer Gregory Hillyer told the jury that the patents
were invalid because the inventions weren’t innovative and that
Pylon’s products didn’t have the same features as Bosch’s did.
“The patents should never have been issued,” he said.  
 Lawyers on both sides declined to comment after the
verdict. Bosch spokeswoman Cheryl Kilborn didn’t immediately
return phone messages seeking comment. Pylon officials  weren’t
immediately available to comment.  
 Bosch sued Pylon, a subsidiary of Deerfield Beach, Florida-
based Qualitor Inc., in 2008 for using protected inventions for
wipers that more efficiently clear curved windshields and resist
lifting at high speed due to the wind.  
 Bosch, based in Stuttgart, Germany, is a world leader in
auto parts. Pylon distributes its wipers under the Toyota and
Michelin brands to retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,
according to court documents.  
 The trial was supervised by U.S. District Judge Sue L.
Robinson, who will hear post-trial motions on the verdict later.
A trial on damages hasn’t yet been scheduled.  
 The case is Robert Bosch LLC v. Pylon Manufacturing Corp.,
08CV542, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To see the patents in the case: 6,944,905; 6,675,434; and
6,292,974.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        