-- Rockwell Collins's Jones No Longer Doubts Boeing, Airbus Production Goals
-- Susanna Ray
-- 2010-04-23T21:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/rockwell-collins-chief-jones-says-he-no-longer-doubts-boeing-airbus-goals.html

          
          
             Rockwell Collins Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Clay Jones says he no longer doubts that
Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS can deliver their promised airplane
production, even amid slumping demand.  
 “They brought me around,” the head of the Cedar Rapids,
Iowa-based maker of cockpit instruments and radios said in an
interview today. “Our estimation a year ago was based on
traditional cycles, and that always has shortcomings.”  
 Boeing and Airbus surprised suppliers, customers and
industry analysts by keeping output basically stable even as
carriers canceled and deferred hundreds of orders because of the
recession. Combined, the world’s two biggest planemakers
delivered 979 airliners last year, a record, and are now
planning to increase manufacturing next year.  
 At the Paris Air Show last June, Jones cited “raging
skepticism” among suppliers of Airbus’s and Boeing’s output
projections, saying there was no historical precedent for those
production rates during an aviation downturn. That prompted the
planemakers to focus on convincing their vendors to hold steady
and believe in their top customers’ forecasts rather than
scaling back on their own.  
 Now, after months more of talks with Boeing and Airbus
about the quality of their backlogs, Jones says he’s been
persuaded. One of the reasons is that the planemakers had
overbooked delivery slots, he said. With seven years’ worth of
orders on the books now after three years of record demand
through 2007, they’ve been able to better juggle their
schedules, pulling some stronger airlines forward while pushing
struggling carriers back, he said.  
 Oil Prices  
 Another reason is that because of high oil prices, carriers
have found the capital expense of new planes to still be more
economical than flying older, less fuel-efficient models.  
 “I’ve kind of come around to the inevitability of that
strength,” Jones told analysts on a conference call today.  
 Plans by Boeing and Airbus to boost production next year
won’t affect Rockwell Collins’ forecast for the 2010 fiscal
year, Jones said, sticking to his prediction for earnings of
$3.35 to $3.55 a share on sales of $4.6 billion to $4.8 billion.  
 Fiscal second-quarter net income dropped 9.8 percent to
$148 million, or 93 cents a share, in the three months through
March, from $164 million, or $1.03, a year earlier. Profit beat
the 87-cent average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Sales were little changed at $1.14 billion.  
 Rockwell Collins fell $1.94, or 2.9 percent, to $65.90 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading. The shares have
gained 80 percent in the past year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        