-- Rupee Posts Second Weekly Loss on Speculation Central Bank to Curb Gains
-- V. Ramakrishnan
-- 2010-04-23T12:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/rupee-set-for-second-weekly-loss-on-speculation-central-bank-to-curb-gains.html

          
          
             India’s rupee completed a second
week of losses on speculation the central bank will limit
interest-rate increases to curb appreciation in the currency.  
 The rupee, Asia’s second-best performer this year, also
dropped on demand for the dollar from oil importers before the
month-end, said Roy Paul, a Mumbai-based deputy general manager
at Federal Bank Ltd. The central bank raised its three policy
rates by a quarter point on April 20, smaller than some
economists forecast.  
 “A sharp increase in rates would have encouraged the carry
trade,” said Paul. “This is an indication the central bank is
keeping the rupee’s strength in mind while formulating its
policies.”  
 The rupee was at 44.4350 per dollar as of the 5:00 p.m.
close in Mumbai, compared with 44.33 at the end of last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has risen
4.7 percent so far this year, compared with a gain of 7.5
percent in Malaysia’s ringgit, the region’s best performance.  
 Carry trades involve borrowing in lower-yielding currencies
to invest in assets that promise a higher return.  
 Policy makers raised the reverse repurchase rate, or the
rate at which funds are drained from the financial system, by a
quarter-percentage point to 3.75 percent. Ten of 30 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey predicted a half-point increase. The
repurchase rate was lifted by the same margin to 5.25 percent,
with eight of the analysts forecasting a bigger move to 5.5
percent.  
 Offshore contracts indicate bets the rupee will trade at
44.50 to the dollar in a month, compared with 44.37 at the end
of last week. Forwards are agreements in which assets are bought
and sold at current prices for future delivery. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars rather than the local currency.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        