-- Russian Gas Deal May Close NATO Door for Ukraine, Open Access to Assets
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2010-04-23T13:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/russian-gas-deal-may-close-nato-door-for-ukraine-open-access-to-assets.html

          
          
             Russia’s $40 billion gas-subsidy
deal with Ukraine and a new 25-year lease for a Russian navy
base may put paid to Ukraine’s NATO ambitions and lay the
country open to Russian companies, analysts said.  
 Russia agreed to cut the gas prices it charges Ukraine by
30 percent, saving the former Soviet republic about $40 billion
over the next decade. At the same time, Ukraine extended
Russia’s lease on the Crimean port of Sevastopol, home to the
Black Sea Fleet, until 2042.  
 “Russia is giving Ukraine a 30 percent discount on gas
imports, but that’s a discount compared to what Kiev had been
paying, which is more than what others are paying,” said Sam
Greene, deputy director of the Carnegie Moscow Center. “In
return they’re getting a 30-year veto on Ukraine’s foreign
policy. That’s quite a deal,” he said in an e-mailed response
to questions today.  
 Russian President Dmitry Medvedev and his Ukrainian
counterpart, Viktor Yanukovych, reached the gas and fleet
agreements on April 21. Medvedev said Russia needed
“certainty” about the future of its Black Sea Fleet.  
 Gas Disruptions  
 Yanukovych took office in February pledging to improve
Ukraine’s relationship with Russia, which had soured under his
predecessor, Viktor Yushchenko, who sought to lead the country
into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and to reduce its
reliance on its eastern neighbor. OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas-
export monopoly, cut deliveries during annual price disputes,
twice disrupting supplies to European customers dependent on
Ukraine’s pipeline network.  
 Russia opposes further eastward expansion of NATO to
include the former Soviet republics of Ukraine and Georgia. The
alliance decided in 2008 that the two countries would eventually
become members, though it refused to fast-track their
applications.  
 The base agreement won’t alter NATO’s commitment to
Ukrainian membership, Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen
said yesterday.  
 Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said yesterday that
the decision to extend gas subsidies to Ukraine after years of
insisting on a move to market prices had been “difficult
because it’s expensive.” Russia may lose 100 billion rubles
($3.4 billion) in revenue from customs duties this year because
of the agreement, Interfax reported, citing Deputy Finance
Minister Tatyana Nesterenko.  
 ‘Long-Term Guarantee’  
 The gas and fleet agreements “ensure that deals will be
put in place in such a way that, even if there’s another
political change in Ukraine, Russia’s principal position will no
longer be put in jeopardy,” said Chris Weafer, chief strategist
with UralSib Financial Corp.  
 “That’s why it’s so expensive,” he said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “It’s the cost of a long-term guarantee.
Moscow clearly doesn’t want to risk a repeat of the conflicts
that not only caused problems with Ukraine, but also jeopardized
relations with the U.S. and European Union.”  
 The next few years should bring a “series” of public- and
private-sector deals between Russia and Ukraine, Weafer said.
“Gazprom will inevitably increase ownership of assets in
Ukraine,” he said, adding that Ukraine may also join a customs
union that currently links Russia and two other former Soviet
republics, Belarus and Kazakhstan.  
 ‘Major Conflicts’  
 The cost of the deal for Russia is mitigated by the
likelihood that Ukraine wouldn’t have been able to pay its gas
bills at current prices, Fyodor Lukyanov, editor of Russia in
Global Affairs magazine, said by telephone.  
 “Russia gave up money it would never get anyway,”
Lukyanov said. “And trying to collect would have provoked major
conflicts not so much with Ukraine as with Europe, where Ukraine
would have done everything possible to drum up support. In this
sense, it’s a good deal and the price isn’t as high as it might
seem.”  
 Russia’s State Duma, the lower house of parliament, will
consider ratification of the Black Sea Fleet lease agreement on
April 27, RIA Novosti reported. Ukraine’s parliament will vote
on the accord at the same time, the Russian state-run news
service reported.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        