-- Russia Should Forget Cold War Rhetoric, NATO Leader Says, Seeking Dialogue
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-04-23T11:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/russia-should-forget-cold-war-rhetoric-nato-leader-says-seeking-dialogue.html

          
          
             The North Atlantic Treaty
Organization should cooperate with Russia on missile defense and
Afghanistan even though differences remain between the alliance
and the Russian government, said NATO Secretary General Anders
Fogh Rasmussen.  
 A joint effort on missile defense would improve security
for all of Europe, Rasmussen said today. Establishing trust with
Russia will be easier if the country’s military leaders leave
behind their hostile Cold War stance toward the 28-nation
alliance, Rasmussen said.  
 “I do believe that we can improve the overall security
environment in Europe and the whole Europe-Atlantic area if we
cooperate with Russia,” Rasmussen said after a NATO meeting in
Tallinn, Estonia.  
 NATO foreign ministers met for two days to discuss
Afghanistan, the stationing of tactical nuclear weapons in
Europe, and the creation of a new strategic posture to face
future threats.  
 Rasmussen said ministers decided to initiate a dialogue
with Russia about missile defense and the prospect of greater
Russian involvement in Afghanistan.  
 “I think there’s potential for further Russian
engagement,” the Secretary General said, citing the fight
against terrorism, illegal drugs and piracy.  
 As NATO works on its “Strategic Concept” for future
challenges, Rasmussen chided Russia’s leaders for “old
fashioned” thinking.  
 Missile defense would protect European and Russian
populations “against a real missile threat,” he said.  
 “Russian military doctrine does not reflect the real
world,” Rasmussen said. “It states that NATO constitutes a
major danger, which is not the reality. I would urge the
Russians to forget this old fashioned Cold War rhetoric and
instead embark with NATO on shared areas.”  
 Rasmussen also said that NATO will continue to “insist on
full respect for Georgia’s sovereignty.” While keeping a “firm
stance on core principles,” he said NATO could still develop
practical cooperation with Russia in areas of common interest.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Tallinn at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        