-- SABMiller Says It's Planning to Construct a $34 Million Brewery in Namibia
-- Chamwe Kaira
-- 2010-04-23T12:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/sabmiller-says-it-s-planning-to-construct-a-34-million-brewery-in-namibia.html

          
          
             SABMiller Plc, the world’s second-
biggest brewer by volume, plans to build a new plant in Namibia
for $34 million to push its Castle and Castle Lite brands
further into the country.  
 SAB has been importing beer into Namibia for more than 20
years, the London-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement. The brewer will own 60 percent of the Namibian unit
with 40 percent to be awarded to local partners, including three
charitable trusts in a “black economic empowerment initiative,”
it said.  
 “Such a significant investment symbolizes our current
optimism in the country,” Cobus Bruwer, SAB’s representative in
Namibia, said in the statement.  
 SABMiller has about 22 percent of the Namibian beer market,
the company said. The new plant will have a capacity of 220,000
hectoliters annually. Construction is scheduled to start in the
second half of 2010 and be completed within 24 months, SAB said.  
 Black empowerment company Onyewu Investments will get a 20
percent stake in SABMiller Namibia, and 20 percent will go to
community-based empowerment groups representing communities from
underdeveloped regions of Namibia, Bruwer said in a telephone
interview from the capital, Windhoek.  
 The company plans to construct the brewery at Okahandja, 70
kilometers (44 miles) north of Windhoek. Last September
SABMiller said it had been granted a license by the Namibian
government to brew and bottle beer in the country, where it
competes with a joint venture of Diageo Plc and Heineken NV.  
 “The country is big enough for all of us,” Garth Saunders,
finance director at SAB Ltd., said in an interview. “We believe
that the market will grow with our presence. We will start
small, but we hope to expand with time.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Cleary in London at 
 acleary7@bloomberg.net ;
Chamwe Kaira in Windhoek via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        