-- New Home Sales Climb by Most in 47 Years
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-04-23T16:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/sales-of-new-homes-in-u-s-climbed-in-march-by-most-since-1963.html

          
          
             Sales of new homes surged 27
percent in March and orders for most durable goods climbed,
indicating the U.S. economy sped up heading into the second
quarter.  
 The gain in new-home sales was the biggest in 47 years as
buyers rushed to qualify for a government tax credit and the
weather improved, a Commerce Department report showed. Bookings
for goods meant to last at least three years, excluding cars and
aircraft, climbed 2.8 percent.  
 Treasuries slid and the dollar advanced against the yen as
the reports pointed to pickups in housing, business investment
and exports that may benefit companies from builders such as
Pulte Group Inc. to makers of capital goods including Eaton
Corp. The outlook for the rest of the year hinges on job gains
that will spur consumer spending, which makes up 70 percent of
the economy.  
 “The pieces are falling into place for a strong
recovery,” said Gus Faucher, director of macroeconomics at
Moody’s Economy.com in West Chester, Pennsylvania. “We’ve got
strong business investment and we’re going to have some
investment in residential” real estate.  
 The drop in Treasury securities brought the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 3.83 percent at 12:45 p.m. in New
York from 3.77 percent late yesterday. The dollar increased 0.7
percent to 94.18 yen.  
 Sales of new houses increased to an annual pace of 411,000,
exceeding the highest forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Last month’s purchase rate was the highest since
July and followed a record-low 324,000 in February that was
higher than previously estimated.  
 Exceeds Forecasts  
 Economists forecast purchases would rise to a 325,000
annual rate in March, according to the median estimate of 77
economists surveyed. Projections ranged from 300,000 to 362,000.  
 Demand may remain elevated through this month as Americans
take advantage of a tax credit worth as much as $8,000 before it
ends at the end of next week.  
 “We’ll probably see another jump in April and then we’ll
get some payback in May and June,” said Jim O’Sullivan, global
chief economist at MF Global Ltd. in New York. “Through the
volatility, the trend in home sales is probably more up than
down.”  
 Builder shares rallied, led by Pulte of Bloomfield Hills,
Michigan, Miami-based Lennar Corp. and Standard Pacific Corp.,
which is based in Irvine, California.  
 Broad-based Gain  
 Sales increased in all four U.S. regions last month, led by
a 44 percent jump in the South. The median price of a new home
increased 4.3 percent in March from a year earlier to $214,000.  
 The Obama administration extended an incentive for first-
time homebuyers in November and expanded it to include some
current owners. The deadline for signing contracts is the end of
this month, and the transactions must be completed by June 30.  
 Sales of previously owned homes, which account for about 90
percent of the housing market, are tabulated at contract
closings, meaning demand may remain elevated through June.
Purchases of new houses reflect contract signings, indicating
the credit’s maximum influence on that market will be seen
through April.  
 A report yesterday from the National Association of
Realtors showed sales of existing homes jumped to a 5.35 million
rate in March, the first increase in four months.  
 Durable Goods  
 The gain in orders for durable goods excluding
transportation equipment last month was the biggest since the
recession began in December 2007, another Commerce Department
today showed.  
 Total orders unexpectedly dropped 1.3 percent, depressed by
a 67 percent plunge in demand for commercial aircraft.  
 Eaton, the Cleveland-based maker of engine valves and
transmissions, is among companies profiting from growth in
demand for car and truck parts. This week it posted first-
quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates and raised its
2010 earnings forecast.  
 “The expanding world economy drove growth in most of our
markets,” Chief Executive Officer Sandy Cutler said in a
statement. “In general we are seeing the strongest growth in
Asia and Brazil, while many U.S. markets are starting to
accelerate and Europe is recovering more modestly.”  
 Business investment in equipment and software climbed at a
19 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, the biggest gain
in 11 years.  
 Global Recovery  
 Factories are ramping up output as improving economies from
Brazil to China and India boost overseas sales and rising U.S.
demand prompts companies to update equipment and replenish
stockpiles after last year’s record drawdown.  
 Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
a proxy for future business investment, increased 4 percent.
Shipments of those items, used in calculating gross domestic
product, increased 2.2 percent.  
 Economists at Morgan Stanley in New York raised their
forecast for economic growth in the first three months of the
year to a 3.4 percent annual pace after the reports on goods
orders from a prior estimate of three percent.  
 The U.S. economy, the world’s largest, expanded at a 5.6
percent pace in last three months of the year as companies
stepped up efforts to stabilize inventories. It was the
strongest rate of growth in six years.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Courtney Schlisserman in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Partially completed townhouses stand at the Lexington Park development in Des Plaines, Illinois, on March 16, 2010. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Dorothy Herman, chief executive officer of Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate, talks with Bloomberg's Margaret Brennan about the luxury housing market.
     Home sales in the Hamptons, the New York beach towns swarmed by Wall Street and Hollywood vacationers each summer, more than doubled in the first quarter as buyers seized luxury properties. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Jay Bryson, global economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about today's report showing sales of new U.S. homes surged 27 percent in March. 
     Bryson also discusses Greece's request for activation of a financial lifeline of as much as $60 billion from the European Union and International Monetary Fund. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Zandi, chief economist and co-founder of Moody's Economy.com, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about the outlook for the U.S. housing market.
     Sales of new homes surged 27 percent in March, the biggest gain in 47 years, as buyers rushed to qualify for a government tax credit and the weather improved. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Dean Maki, chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman and Mark Crumpton about U.S. new-home sales.
     Sales of new homes surged 27 percent in March and orders for most durable goods climbed, indicating the U.S. economy sped up heading into the second quarter. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- John Herrmann, a senior strategist at State Street Global Markets, talks with Bloomberg's Matt Miller and Carol Massar about U.S. new home sales in March and the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Sales of new homes surged 27 percent in March and orders for most durable goods climbed, indicating the U.S. economy sped up heading into the second quarter. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
