-- Saudi Arabia Rule Change to Permit Australian Wheat Imports For First Time
-- Wendy Pugh
-- 2010-04-23T06:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/saudi-arabia-rule-change-to-permit-australian-wheat-imports-for-first-time.html

          
          
             Saudi Arabia has changed its wheat
tender specifications to allow purchases from Australia, the
world’s fourth-largest shipper, Western Australian state
Agriculture and Food Minister Terry Redman said.  
 The country lowered its protein requirements and ended a
zero tolerance for the crop fungus Ergot, clearing the way for
Australia to participate in tenders, Redman said in a statement
e-mailed today.  
 Saudi Arabia plans to stop growing wheat domestically by
spring 2016, and import the grain instead, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture said in a report in February. The nation’s wheat-
buying agency has approved the U.S., Argentina, the European
Union and Australia as shippers, it said.  
 “They will be reliant on major reliable suppliers of wheat
in the global market and Australia will at some point be one of
those suppliers,” said Tom Puddy, wheat marketing manager for
CBH Group’s export division. CBH is Australia’s biggest exporter
of grains.  
 Wheat for July delivery declined 0.8 percent to $5.0675 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 4:47 p.m. Melbourne time.
The futures have dropped 6.4 percent this year.  
 Australian shippers competed in a Saudi Arabia tender this
month for 550,000 metric tons, with suppliers from Canada and
Germany winning the business, Puddy said. A global glut of wheat
this year has increased price competition.  
 World Production  
 “We may be able to get a couple of cargoes done by the end
of the year, but if not I would say next year,” Puddy said.
“As production changes around the world, we should see
ourselves starting to line up in there.”  
 The Middle Eastern country may import 2 million tons in
2010-11, according to a report last month by the USDA’s Foreign
Agricultural Service.  
 The latest Saudi tender had a minimum 11.1 percent protein
level compared with a minimum last year of 12.5 percent. The
tolerance level for Ergot was raised to 0.045 percent.  
 Saudi Arabia’s Grains Silos and Flour Mills Organisation
toured Western Australia’s grain production, research and
storage facilities last month, Redman’s statement said.  
 Australia already ships barley to Saudi Arabia, the world’s
largest importer of the grain.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Wendy Pugh in Tokyo at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        