-- Sears Holdings Agrees to Buy Sears Canada Stake from Pershing Square Fund
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-04-23T20:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/sears-to-buy-pershing-square-stake-in-sears-canada-unit-for-556-7-million.html

          
          
             Sears Holdings Corp., the biggest
U.S. department-store company, agreed to buy William Ackman’s
hedge fund’s stake in Sears Canada Inc., in a move that would
allow it to take the company private.  
 Sears Holdings will pay C$559.8 million ($556.7 million),
or C$30 a share for Pershing Square Capital Management LP’s 18.7
million shares, about 17 percent of Sears Canada, according to a
statement today. That will give Hoffman Estates, Illinois-based
Sears Holdings about 90.4 percent of the Canadian unit.  
 In passing the 90 percent ownership threshold, Sears
Holdings has the right to acquire the remaining 10 percent,
according to the Canada Business Corporations Act, said Richard
Powers, a lawyer and executive director of MBA programs at the
University of Toronto’s Joseph L. Rotman School of Management.  
 If Sears Holdings decides to buy the remaining shares, the
rule compels the minority owners to sell their stock to Sears
Holdings, which can take the corporation private. Because Sears
Holdings hasn’t initiated a formal takeover bid for Sears
Canada, it isn’t limited by a 120-day requirement to win the
support of 90 percent of shareholders, Powers said in a
telephone interview.  
 Bethany Norvell, a spokeswoman for New York-based Pershing,
said Ackman wasn’t available for comment. Kimberly Freely, a
spokeswoman for Sears Holdings, declined to comment beyond
today’s statement.  
 Sears Canada Declines  
 Sears Holdings rose $9.12, or 8.1 percent, to $122.01 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
have gained 46 percent this year. Sears Canada fell 52 cents, or
1.8 percent, to C$29 in Toronto trading. The stock has gained 20
percent this year.  
 Sears Holdings’ C$30 a share offer is 1.6 percent more than
the Canadian unit’s closing price yesterday. The deal is
scheduled to close April 27.  
 Pershing Square founder Ackman, the second-largest investor
in Sears Canada, is parting ways with the retailer for two-
thirds more than the price offered by Sears Holdings in a failed
takeover four years ago.  
 In 2006, Sears Canada rejected Sears Holdings’ offer to buy
the 46 percent of the company it didn’t already own. Sears
Holdings final bid of C$17.94 a share was too low, Ackman said
then. He was among investors who accused Sears Holdings of
bullying minority shareholders and asked regulators to block the
acquisition.  
 Sears Holdings Stake  
 In an early 2009 letter to clients, Ackman said he sold
most of his stock in Sears Holdings in 2008, at least 6.2
million shares. In a regulatory filing in February of this year,
Pershing didn’t disclose owning any Sears Holdings shares. The
filings don’t show non-U.S. securities.  
 Sears Holdings also said its net income for the quarter
ending May 1 will be as much as $35 million, or at most 31 cents
a share, compared with $26 million, or 21 cents, a year earlier.
The chain plans to report fiscal first-quarter results on or
before May 20.  
 Same-store sales at the company’s Kmart unit climbed 3.2
percent in the quarter through April 21 on purchases of
clothing, home goods and toys. Domestic sales at Sears’s
namesake locations rose 0.3 percent, the company said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Rabil in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Toronto at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        