-- SEC Should Force Dark Pools to Improve U.S. Market Prices, Niederauer Says
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-04-23T15:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/sec-should-force-dark-pools-to-improve-u-s-market-prices-niederauer-says.html

          
          
             Private venues called dark pools
and brokers filling orders away from the public markets should
face more restrictions on when they can trade, according to
Duncan Niederauer, chief executive officer of NYSE Euronext.  
 He said his company will recommend that the Securities and
Exchange Commission require dark pools and market makers that
want to trade stocks without quoting publicly beforehand to
improve the price the customer gets by a certain amount over
what is available in the marketplace.  
 Niederauer’s concern reflects a debate in the securities
industry about whether alternative venues are making markets
less transparent by not displaying prices publicly, sometimes
called making a quote. While SEC rules require that all stocks
trade at least at the best bid or ask in the market, NYSE says
the incentive of firms quoting on exchanges is reduced if
private venues can match buyers and sellers at the same level
and ignore the orders that established the best price.  
 “They should have a pre-trade transparency reporting
requirement,” Niederauer said April 21 during an interview at
Bloomberg’s office in Washington. “Let’s see how excited they
are about making a quote.”  
 NYSE has lost share to what’s called internalization, when
brokers, which may operate dark pools, execute orders on their
platforms at the best public price or better, Niederauer said. A
dark pool is a trading venue that doesn’t quote prices publicly.  
 Citadel, Knight  
 Market-maker groups at firms including Citadel Investment
Group LLC and Knight Capital Group Inc. can also fill orders
away from exchanges from individual investors sent to them by
discount brokers. These orders are required to transact at the
market’s best price or better.  
 An order sent to an exchange will “get filled at the
display price or better within microseconds,” Niederauer said.
A microsecond is a millionth of a second. “If it’s going to be
filled somewhere else, shouldn’t that person have a similar pre-
trade transparency requirement to the one we have? Isn’t that a
public good?”  
 About 30 percent of trading is executed by brokers off
exchanges, according to data from London-based Barclays Plc.
Dark pools, which are part of that volume, handled 10 percent of
U.S. equity trading in February, compared with 5.8 percent in
March 2008, according to Rosenblatt Securities in New York.  
 Trade-At Rule  
 The SEC broached the idea of limits on trading away from
public markets through what’s called a trade-at rule in a
January discussion paper. It considered and rejected the idea
that brokers must improve prices for customers if they’re not
already quoting at that level before adopting new rules in 2005.
The regulator asked in January whether such a requirement should
be conditioned on exchanges cutting or eliminating trading fees
for customers transacting against orders in their books.  
 Credit Suisse Securities in the U.S., a unit of Credit
Suisse Group AG in Zurich, told the SEC in an April 21 letter
that limiting transactions in alternative venues would reduce
competition among market centers and lead to higher trading fees
on exchanges.  
 The firm, whose Crossfinder is the largest dark pool in the
U.S., argued that the playing field is slanted toward exchanges,
which get hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue for market
data sold to vendors including Thomson Reuters Corp. and
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News. The broker
said dark pools should be allowed to share in that money.  
 $1.4 Trillion  
 Vanguard Group said a trade-at rule would provide an
incentive to display limit orders, which are requests to sell
stock at a price above the current offer or buy below the bid.
The Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based company, which manages
about $1.4 trillion, told the SEC in an April 21 letter that
such a rule could “strike an appropriate balance between the
goal of promoting public price transparency and a trading
center’s interest in not displaying certain orders.”  
 TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. advised the SEC to resist calls
for a trade-at rule. The rule would “drive retail commissions
higher” and benefit high-frequency trading firms instead of
individual investors, the Omaha, Nebraska-based firm said in a
letter to the SEC on April 21.  
 Ameritrade’s discount brokers have more than 5.4 million
client accounts with about $342 billion. Market makers filling
orders off exchanges currently “offer superior price
improvement” and more shares than are publicly displayed at the
best bid or offer, the firm said.  
 No Problem  
 Investment Technology Group Inc., based in New York, said
the trade-at rule is a “solution in search of a problem.” The
broker, whose Posit dark pool began trading in 1987, told the
SEC in a letter that the rule is “at odds with the concept of
multiple competing market centers that was mandated by
Congress” in changes to the securities laws in 1975.  
 Different regulatory requirements for exchanges and dark
pools give the latter a leg up in competition, Niederauer said.
If NYSE and a dark pool come up with a similar innovation, the
Big Board must file a rule that can be read on the SEC’s site
and wait for commission approval, he said. That process can take
weeks or months for some requests. Its rival could implement it
immediately.  
 “That doesn’t seem fair,” he said. “Either we should be
able to do it tomorrow or they should have to file a rule too.”  
 Rules enabling alternative venues to compete with bigger
markets such as NYSE and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s Nasdaq Stock
Market made sense when those venues had the majority of volume
in the stocks they listed, Niederauer said. Now that NYSE
accounts for less than a quarter of trading in its own stocks,
instead of 80 percent, the threat of a dominant player doesn’t
justify rules that benefit smaller rivals.  
 “We’re not asking to be re-anointed as a monopolist,”
Niederauer said. “We’re just saying if you’re going to have all
these pools compete with us, keep it balanced.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Duncan Niederauer, chief executive officer of NYSE Euronext, attends a panel discussion on day one of the 2010 World Economic Forum (WEF) annual meeting in Davos, on Jan. 27, 2010.  Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
