-- SEC Inspector General Asked to Examine Goldman Suit
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-04-23T23:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/sec-inspector-general-asked-to-examine-timing-of-agency-s-goldman-lawsuit.html

          
          
             U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro faces an investigation into
whether politics drove the agency’s decision to sue Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. for fraud.  
 Representative Darrell Issa, a California Republican, asked
SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz to determine whether the
agency’s April 16 lawsuit was timed to bolster the Obama
administration’s push to overhaul financial rules. Schapiro said
on April 21 that neither the White House nor Congress have any
influence on SEC enforcement actions.  
 “The circumstances of the filing and subsequent events
fueled suspicion that the commission, or one or more of its
officials or employees, may have engaged in unauthorized
disclosure of commission proceedings,” Issa said today in a
letter to Kotz seeking a probe. Kotz, in a Fox television
interview, said he would do an investigation at Issa’s request.  
 The investigation will bring additional scrutiny to a case
the SEC is relying on to restore its standing with investors and
lawmakers after the agency failed to detect frauds including
Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. Goldman Sachs, the most
profitable company in Wall Street history, said the SEC lawsuit
is “completely unfounded” and pledged to fight it.  
 CDO Disclosure  
 The SEC accused Goldman Sachs of creating and selling
collateralized debt obligations in 2007 based on subprime
mortgages without disclosing that Paulson & Co., the hedge fund
run by billionaire John Paulson, helped pick the underlying
securities. Goldman Sachs also didn’t disclose to investors that
Paulson was betting against the assets, the SEC said.  
 Schapiro, a political independent, joined the SEC’s two
Democratic commissioners in voting to approve the suit on April
14. The two Republican members voted against the action.  
 Issa and eight other Republican lawmakers sent Schapiro a
letter April 20 asking whether any SEC employee discussed the
suit with the White House before the case was announced. He also
requested all records and communications between the SEC and
congressional Democrats.  
 In her April 21 statement, Schapiro said she’s
“disappointed by the rhetoric.” The SEC is an “independent
enforcement agency” and will “neither bring cases, nor refrain
from bringing them because of political consequences.”  
 Looking Forward  
 SEC spokesman John Nester said the agency looks “forward
to cooperating with the inspector general’s investigation.”
Kotz didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  
 President Barack Obama, in an April 21 interview with CNBC,
denied there was communication between the SEC and the White
House about the case.  
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, in an April 22
interview on ABC’s “Good Morning America” program, said the
SEC gave him and his staff “no warnings” about the case.  
 Obama is encouraging lawmakers to approve tougher rules for
Wall Street in response to a credit crisis that triggered the
worst economic slump since the Great Depression.  
 The Senate will likely begin debate next week on the
measure, which would create a consumer regulator within the
Federal Reserve to protect borrowers against deception in
mortgage and credit-card lending. The bill would also create a
mechanism for unwinding failed financial companies and increase
transparency of derivatives markets.  
 Republican senators have argued that the measure would
increase the likelihood that banks will take excessive risks in
the future because it ensures government bailouts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        