-- Second-Quarter China Fuel Use May Increase 5%; Domestic Supplies to Climb
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-23T07:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/second-quarter-china-fuel-use-may-increase-5-domestic-supplies-to-climb.html

          
          
             China, the world’s second-biggest
energy user, may increase fuel consumption by 5 percent in the
second quarter and the higher demand may be met by domestic
supplies, the government said.  
 Apparent demand of refined products including gasoline and
diesel may rise to between 54.7 and 55.7 million metric tons
while supplies climb on new refining capacity, the National
Energy Administration, China’s top energy body, said in a
statement posted on its Web site today. China may cut imports of
coal starting April because of rising global prices, it said.  
 Gains in fuel consumption this year may lag behind the 31.5
million metric tons a year of refining capacity that’s expected
to be added this year, China National Petroleum Corp., China’s
biggest oil producer, said in February. PetroChina Co., the Hong
Kong-listed unit of China National, plans to start a 10 million
ton-a-year refinery in Qinzhou in southern China in June, the
company said in August last year.  
 “Oil-product supplies will be ample and inventories will
remain high in the second quarter,” according to today’s
statement. Refining capacity grew by 33 million tons last year,
the NEA said.  
 Higher fuel consumption in the second quarter will be
prompted by growth in car sales, new and expansion of domestic
airports and increased domestic travels amid the Shanghai World
Expo starting in May, the NEA said. Expansion in secondary
industries led demand growth in the first quarter, it said.  
 Economic Recovery  
 “A sustained recovery in domestic and external goods
demand will support energy use,” it said. “The foundation for
China’s economic recovery continues to firm.”  
 China’s industrial production expanded 18 percent in March
as the economy grew at the fastest pace in almost three years in
the first quarter.  
 The world’s biggest user and producer of coal may import
less of the fuel in the second quarter because of rising global
prices and costlier freight, the NEA said today.  
 Spot prices of thermal coal at Australia’s Newcastle port,
the world’s biggest export harbor for the fuel, have risen 46
percent since the beginning of September on the back of a global
economic recovery, according to an index by McCloskeys. Supplies
last traded at $97.50 per ton.  
 Growth in second-quarter coal production in China may be
lower than the preceding period because of safety checks caused
by mine accidents and the consolidation of small pits, the NEA
said. An ongoing drought may cut hydropower generation and cause
increased coal consumption in a seasonally low demand period for
electricity, the NEA said.  
 Coal Output  
 Coal demand in the second quarter tends to fall because of
lower use of air conditioning. Coal fuels about 80 percent of
the country’s power plants.  
 The nation turned a net importer of coal for the first time
last year after purchasing 125.8 million tons of the fuel helped
by cheap international prices. Imports also increased because of
lower domestic supplies after a nationwide crackdown on coal
mine safety in 2009 that shut 1,000 small pits.  
 Power supply and demand will be balanced in the second
quarter, it said. Growth in electricity consumption in the three
months through June may be lower than in the first quarter
because of a higher base of comparison last year, NEA said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        