-- Senator Durbin Says He Was Subpoenaed for Blagojevich's Corruption Trial
-- John McCormick
-- 2010-04-23T19:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/senator-durbin-says-he-was-subpoenaed-for-blagojevich-s-corruption-trial.html

          
          
             U.S. Senator Dick Durbin, the
chamber’s No. 2 Democrat, said he has been subpoenaed by the
defense to testify in the June 3 corruption trial of former
Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich.  
 “Whether I’m going to be called, I don’t know,” Durbin
said, later adding in a statement that he received the subpoena
on April 16. “But, you know, a subpoena is an order of the
court to appear. And if I’m called to appear, I will.”  
 Blagojevich’s lawyers also are asking the federal judge
overseeing his case to compel President Barack Obama to testify
in order to dispute allegations against the impeached governor.  
 U.S. District Judge James Zagel will consider that request
on April 30. White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs wouldn’t
comment on the possibility of the president being subpoenaed.  
 The senior Illinois senator, speaking at a news conference
in Chicago to argue for financial overhaul legislation, said he
was interviewed for about 30 minutes “several months” ago by
federal investigators in the Blagojevich case.  
 Blagojevich was arrested in December 2008 on allegations he
tried to trade Obama’s former U.S. Senate seat for campaign
contributions or personal favors.  
 “I only had one phone conversation with the former
governor about the Senate vacancy,” Durbin said. “It was after
several weeks of waiting to hear from him. We finally got on the
phone. It lasted no more than 10 or 15 minutes. I suggested,
somewhere, 10 to 20 different names that he might consider,
encouraged him to choose someone quickly.”  
 ‘Same Story’  
 Durbin made clear he would have nothing new to say in a
courtroom.  
 “If he, or the government, wants to call me in, I’ll tell
the same story I’ve told you in front of these cameras,” he
said.  
 Durbin said he hasn’t spoken to Blagojevich’s defense team
and declined to comment on whether he thought Obama should
testify.  
 “I’m not going to answer that,” he said. “That’s a
different question. He should answer that.”  
 Blagojevich, a two-term Democrat, was impeached by state
legislators and removed from office last year by the Illinois
Senate. He has said he is innocent.  
 The former governor faces as many as 20 years in prison if
convicted of racketeering, attempted extortion and wire fraud,
and 10 years for a charge of bribery.  
 The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Democratic U.S. Senator Dick Durbin  
                       
                         
                           Tim Boyle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Democratic U.S. Senator Dick Durbin speaks at a news conference to announce funding for a high-speed rail project, at Union Station in Chicago, Illinois, on Jan. 29, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Democratic U.S. Senator Dick Durbin speaks at a news conference to announce funding for a high-speed rail project, at Union Station in Chicago, Illinois, on Jan. 29, 2010. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
