-- Shell, Conoco Said to Join Exelon in Backing U.S. Climate Measure
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-04-23T22:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/shell-conoco-are-said-to-join-exelon-in-backing-climate-measure-in-senate.html

          
          
             Oil companies including Royal Dutch
Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips will back new climate-change
legislation in the U.S. Senate, according to people familiar
with their plans.  
 Exelon Corp., the biggest U.S. utility owner, also supports
the measure, and Chief Executive Officer John Rowe will be on hand
when the bill is presented at a news conference on April 26,
said Howard Riefs, a spokesman for the Chicago-based company.  
 Senators John Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, Lindsey
Graham, a South Carolina Republican, and Joseph Lieberman, a
Connecticut independent, have worked for months to get energy
companies such as Shell and ConocoPhillips behind compromise
legislation after a House-passed measure stalled.  
 General Electric Co. is among companies expressing interest
while withholding judgment until the measure is in final form.  
 “From the little we do know, we believe it will be a step
forward,” said Peter O’Toole, a spokesman for Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE, which produces equipment that generates
one-third of the world’s electricity. “As for GE endorsing or
having an opinion of any kind, we need to see the bill first.”  
 A representative of GE probably will attend the news
conference, O’Toole said.  
 Also expected are Marvin Odum, president of U.S. operations
for The Hague-based Shell, and Jim Rogers, CEO of Duke Energy
Corp., said the people, who asked not to be identified before
the announcement.  
 Conference Call  
 Kerry said on a conference call last night that at least
three of the five biggest oil companies will endorse the
legislation, according to people with knowledge of the call.
Kerry didn’t identify the companies, they said.  
 Kerry spokeswoman Whitney Smith declined to comment today
on the call or on provisions of the legislation.  
 The House version of the legislation would have established
a cap-and-trade program for almost every part of the U.S.
economy, with carbon emissions limited and pollution allowances
traded on a market. The Kerry-Graham-Lieberman compromise would
start by placing carbon limits solely on electric utilities,
with manufacturers covered later.  
 Oil companies would be given free pollution allowances that
would expire by a certain date, after which allowances would
have to be purchased, the people said.  
 The Edison Electric Institute, a Washington-based trade
group representing the electric-utility industry, is also likely
to back the measure, according to the people. Edison spokesman
Jim Owen said the group hasn’t seen the legislation yet and
“we’re not saying anything.”  
 Shell’s Comments  
 “Shell believes that comprehensive energy and climate
legislation is essential to meeting our growing demand for
energy and that a national framework will help keep down the
cost of doing business and provide the regulatory certainty that
companies need,” company spokesman Ted Rolfvondenbaumen, said
in an e-mailed statement.  
 Nancy Turner, a spokeswoman for Houston-based
ConocoPhillips, said, “We have not yet seen the bill so
therefore it is premature for us to comment.”  
 Tom Williams, a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Duke, declined to comment.  
 The legislation is drawing criticism from an environmental
organization, Greenpeace USA. The group opposes a provision that
would bar the Environmental Protection Agency from regulating
greenhouse gases and also suspend carbon-trading programs in the
states.  
 The issue is a “line in the sand for many in the
environmental movement,” Damon Moglen, director of the
Greenpeace USA Global Warming campaign, said in an interview.
Moglen was among participants on the conference call yesterday
with Kerry.  
 -- With assistance from Rachel Layne in Boston, Jessica Resnick-
Ault in New York, Edward Klump in Houston and Simon Lomax in
Washington. Editors: Larry Liebert, Joe Winski  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        