-- Singapore Inflation Quickens to 12-Month High, Requiring Stronger Currency
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-04-23T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/singapore-inflation-quickens-to-12-month-high-requiring-stronger-currency.html

          
          
             Singapore’s consumer prices rose
the most in 12 months in March amid an economic rebound that has
led policy makers to allow the island’s currency to strengthen.  
 The consumer price index climbed 1.6 percent from a year
earlier, the Department of Statistics said in a statement in
Singapore today. That was below the 1.8 percent median estimate
of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Prices rose 0.1
percent from February, without adjusting for seasonal factors.  
 Singapore’s central bank said this month it would undertake
a one-time revaluation of the currency and seek its gradual and
modest appreciation, joining other Asian nations in tightening
monetary policy. The government raised its 2010 growth forecast
for the $182 billion economy to as much as 9 percent as the
global recovery boosts demand for goods and services.  
 “March inflation is a precursor of things to come,”
Song Seng-Wun, an economist at CIMB-GK Research Pte in
Singapore, said before the report. “Stronger-than-expected
global demand may push commodity prices including energy much
higher than initially projected. The central bank took a view
that it should stay ahead of the curve.”  
 The Monetary Authority of Singapore uses the currency
instead of interest rates to conduct monetary policy. It said
April 14 it will “re-centre the exchange rate policy band at
the prevailing level” of the Singapore dollar, shifting to a
stronger range for the currency to trade in. The central bank
guides the Singapore dollar against a basket of currencies
within an undisclosed band.  
 The Singapore dollar is the best performing currency in
Asia this month, rising 1.9 percent against the U.S. dollar to
S$1.3739.  
 Inflation Forecast  
 Inflation will probably average between 2.5 percent and 3.5
percent this year, from a previous estimate of as much as 3
percent, the central bank said in an April 14 statement.  
 “Consumer price inflation has trended higher since the
third quarter of last year, largely due to the rise in global
commodity prices and private road transport costs,” it said.
“These two factors will continue to drive headline inflation
rates up for the rest of 2010. Other domestic sources of
inflationary pressures, though subdued presently, could be
expected to emerge in the coming quarters.”  
 The strengthening economy may spur wage growth and
commercial rentals are likely to rise, the central bank said.  
 Food prices rose 0.9 percent in March from a year earlier,
and transport costs increased 10.1 percent. Housing prices, the
biggest component of the consumer price index, slid 0.7 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        