-- South Africa Rand Snaps Two-Day Drop as Markets `Price Out' Rate Reduction
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-04-23T14:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/south-africa-rand-snaps-two-day-drop-as-markets-price-out-rate-reduction.html

          
          
             South Africa’s rand strengthened,
snapping a two-day decline, as investors unwound bets on
interest-rate declines after central bank Governor Gill Marcus
said the benchmark may stay unchanged for “some time to come.”  
 Scope for lowering the South African Reserve Bank’s
repurchase rate is limited, Marcus said in a speech in
Johannesburg yesterday. Policy makers unexpectedly cut the rate
for a seventh time on March 25, reducing the repurchase rate by
50 basis points to 6.5 percent, the lowest in at least 12 years.  
 “The market is pricing out the prospect of another rate
cut in the short term,” said Andre Roux, who helps oversee
about $65 billion as head of fixed income at Investec Asset
Management in Cape Town. “The governor has signaled that rates
are likely to stay on hold for longer.”  
 The rand gained as much as 0.6 percent to 7.4510 per dollar
and traded 0.5 percent stronger at 7.4564 by 4:39 p.m. in
Johannesburg, from a close of 7.4961 yesterday. The move pared
the rand’s loss this week to 0.9 percent.  
 The currency had been weakening after Marcus said April 20
that policy makers won’t pursue their 3 to 6 percent inflation
target “at any cost” and will take the country’s overall
growth and development needs into account when setting interest
rates. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan wrote a letter to Marcus
on Feb. 16 saying policy makers should consider economic growth
and employment when setting interest rates.  
 Money-market rates also showed investors trimmed bets that
interest rates will be lowered when the central bank holds its
next monetary policy committee meeting May 13. Forward-rate
agreements showed three-month contracts for cash due in three
months were at 6.53 percent, 17 basis points higher than the
level on April 21 when they dropped to the lowest since at least
1999, Bloomberg data show.  
 Not ‘Unconditional’  
 Marcus said her statement was not an “unconditional
commitment” and that further rate cuts would depend on
“markedly” lower-than-expected output or a “sustained”
appreciation of the rand. South Africa’s currency has gained
more than 27 percent since the start of last year.  
 “If the rand were to appreciate to below 7 to the dollar,
they could certainly consider another rate cut,” said Roux. “A
stronger rand signals a better inflation outcome down the
line.”  
 Inflation slowed to 5.7 percent in February, the first time
in three months that it fell within the central bank’s 3 to 6
percent target band.  
 The price of the 13.5 percent government bond due September
2015 rose nine cents to 124.79 rand, taking its retreat from a
seven-month high reached on April 21 to 28 cents. The yield on
the security fell 2 basis points from yesterday to 7.77 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        