-- Soybeans, Corn, Wheat Drop as Early Planting in U.S. May Boost Crop Yields
-- Jeff Wilson
-- 2010-04-23T20:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/soybeans-corn-wheat-drop-as-early-planting-in-u-s-may-boost-crop-yields.html

          
          
             Soybeans fell from a three-month
high, while corn and wheat dropped for the first time in four
days, as dry weather allows U.S. farmers to accelerate the pace
of planting, improving yield prospects for crops.  
 Rainfall from eastern North Dakota to North Carolina has
been less than 25 percent of normal during the past two weeks
and temperatures on average were as much as 10 degrees higher
than is typical for this time of year, data from the High Plains
Regional Climate Center in Lincoln, Nebraska, show. Rains in the
next three days will boost soil moisture before warmer weather
returns next week, according to T-Storm Weather in Chicago.  
 “The rush to plant this year is in direct response to so
many weather problems the past two years,” said Dale Durchholz,
the senior market analyst for AgriVisor LLC in Bloomington,
Illinois. “Early planting means that the risk of severe weather
problems the remainder of the growing season have been reduced,
and that means yield expectations have to be ramped higher.”  
 Soybean futures for July delivery fell 5 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $10.10 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, after
earlier touching $10.1725, the highest level for a most-active
contract since Jan. 11. The prices rose 1.5 percent this week,
the third straight weekly gain on speculation China will
increase purchases of U.S. supplies.  
 Grains Fall  
 Corn futures for July delivery declined 10.5 cents, or 2.8
percent, to $3.61 a bushel in Chicago, capping a 3.5 percent
weekly decline. Corn has dropped 13 percent this year on
forecasts for combined production to rise 13 percent in Brazil
and Argentina, the biggest exporters after the U.S.  
 Wheat futures for July delivery slipped 5.5 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $5.055 a bushel on the CBOT, after yesterday
touching $5.12, the highest price for a most-active contract
since March 4. Wheat has fallen 6.6 percent this year because of
reduced demand for U.S. grain and rising global stockpiles.  
 U.S. farmers accelerated planting of the corn crop last
week as warm, dry weather firmed Midwest fields for heavy
machinery, government data show. Winter-wheat conditions
improved.  
 About 19 percent of the corn crop was planted as April 18,
compared with 3 percent a week earlier and 5 percent at the same
time last year, the Department of Agriculture said this week.
The average over the previous five years is 9 percent.  
 By the end of this weekend, “corn planting may be 50
percent planted and the fastest pace ever, with many farmers
already done and starting to plant soybeans,” Durchholz said.
“With nearly ideal soil conditions for planting, farmers can
plant a lot more than used to be able to plant because they have
larger equipment.”  
 Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government figures
show. Wheat is fourth at $10.6 billion, after hay.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        