-- STMicroelectroncis Shares Decline After ST-Ericsson `Flat' Sales Forecast
-- Chiara Remondini
-- 2010-04-23T15:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/stmicroelectroncis-shares-decline-after-st-ericsson-flat-sales-forecast.html

          
          
             STMicroelectronics NV, Europe’s
largest chipmaker, fell the most in 10 months in Milan trading
after its ST-Ericsson joint venture reported a wider first-
quarter loss and forecast “approximately flat” sales.  
 ST-Ericsson, a 50-50 joint venture with Ericsson AB that
makes chips used in mobile phones, said yesterday its first-
quarter net loss widened to $154 million from $125 million in
the last quarter of 2009. Net sales declined to $606 million
from $740 million in the previous period.  
 STMicroelectronics shares dropped 40 cents, or 5.2 percent,
to 7.30 euros, the biggest decline since 15 June, 2009.  
 “Continued difficulties in the ST-Ericsson joint venture
give us cause for concern along with guidance that we will need
to wait until at least the second half of 2010 to see signs of
profitability even given substantial restructuring,” Gareth
Jenkins, an analyst at UBS AG in London, said in a note today.  
 ST-Ericsson predicted net sales will be “approximately
flat” from the first three months of 2010, “due to the
continued ongoing short-term impact of the portfolio
transition.” Its clients include Nokia Oyj and Samsung
Electronics Co., the world’s top two handset makers.  
 ‘Poor Quarter’  
 ST-Ericsson reported “a poor quarter and disappointing”
outlook, Sebastien Sztabowicz, an analyst at Kepler in Paris,
wrote in a report to clients.  
 “ST-Ericsson is in a transition mode,” STMicroelectronics
Chief Executive Officer Carlo Bozotti said in a call with
journalists today. He added he’s “confident” ST-Ericsson
results will improve.  
 STMicroelectronics’ second-quarter revenue will rise as
much as 31 percent from a year earlier as demand rebounds from a
recessionary lull, the Geneva-based company said in a statement
yesterday. Sales are projected to record “solid growth” in the
current period, it said. The forecast indicates revenue of as
much as $2.6 billion. Analysts had predicted sales of $2.55
billion, the average of 12 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Sales of chips, used in such products as set-top boxes,
washing machines and cars, are reviving after an economic slump
cut demand. Bozotti increased his forecast today for the market
served by STMicroelectronics, projecting an increase of 15
percent to 20 percent this year. He predicted in January a gain
of 10 percent to 12 percent in 2010. The CEO said
STMicroelectronics will outperform the market.  
 ‘Market Momentum’  
 “As the market momentum is stronger than expected, we are
committed to serving the robust demand of our customers,
boosting our revenues growth and continuing to improve our net
earnings through the next quarters,” the CEO said.  
 STMicroelectronics forecast that the second-quarter gross
margin, the percentage of revenue left after subtracting
manufacturing costs, will be about 38 percent, plus or minus 1
percentage point, from 37.7 percent in the first quarter. The
forecast is based on an exchange rate of $1.38 to the euro.  
 STMicroelectronics’ net income in the first quarter was $57
million, compared with a net loss of $541 million a year
earlier. That’s the company’s first quarterly profit since the
last three months of 2007, according to Bloomberg figures. Sales
advanced 40 percent to $2.33 billion. Net income had been
predicted at $13.3 million on sales of $2.43 billion, according
to the average estimates of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The Semiconductor Industry Association said April 5 it’s
“cautiously optimistic” for growth beyond a November forecast,
when it predicted a 10.2 percent gain in global chip sales this
year. Research firm Gartner Inc. predicted Feb. 24 that
worldwide semiconductor revenue will advance about 20 percent to
$276 billion in 2010.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        