-- Stocks Rise, Euro Reverses Decline on German Business Confidence, Earnings
-- Justin Carrigan
-- 2010-04-23T09:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/stocks-rise-euro-reverses-decline-on-german-business-confidence-earnings.html

          
          
             Stocks in Europe rose and the
euro snapped losses that drove it to a one-year low against
the dollar as German business confidence and earnings at
companies including Volvo AB beat forecasts.  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rallied 0.9 percent as of
10:38 a.m. in London and futures on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index climbed 0.3 percent. Russia’s Micex Index gained
1.1 percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said stocks may
advance 28 percent. The euro rose 0.3 percent versus the
dollar after six straight days of declines. Greek 10-year
bonds ended an eight-day losing streak, narrowing the yield
premium to benchmark German bunds by 35 basis points, as
the government sought a bridge loan.  
 About 85 percent of companies in the S&P 500 that have
reported first-quarter results beat the average analyst
earnings estimate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Germany’s Ifo Institute said today business confidence
jumped to a two-year high. A Greek government official said
the government was ready to request an interim loan to help
stave off a default.  
 “There cannot be any doubt that the momentum in the
German economy is still very strong,” Andreas Rees, an
economist at UniCredit SpA in Munich, wrote in a research
note. “Companies are benefitting enormously from the
global upswing.”  
 Volvo Surges  
 Volvo, the world’s second-largest truckmaker, surged
13.5 percent in Stockholm. Akzo Nobel NV, the biggest
coatings company, rallied 5.7 percent in Amsterdam after
saying earnings increased. Adidas AG, the world’s second-
largest sporting-goods maker, gained 3.1 percent in
Frankfurt after raising its profit forecast.  
 The gain in U.S. futures indicated the S&P 500 may
extend yesterday’s 0.2 percent advance. American Express
Co. rose 1.5 percent in Germany after posting higher
profit. Gains were limited as Microsoft Corp. lost 3.2
percent in early New York trading after reporting sales
that missed the most optimistic estimates. Schlumberger
Ltd., Honeywell International Inc. and Xerox Corp. are
among 11 companies in the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities
that are scheduled to report earnings today.  
 Orders for long-lasting goods probably climbed in
March for a fourth consecutive month, rising 0.2 percent
after a 0.9 percent gain in February, economists said
before a report from the Commerce Department due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. A separate report at 10 a.m. may show
new-home purchases advanced 5.5 percent to a 325,000 annual
rate from the prior month, according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 Shanghai Composite  
 China’s Shanghai Composite Index retreated 0.5 percent
after the State Council told banks to stop loans for third-
home purchases in cities with excessive property price
gains. Thailand’s SET Index fell 1.3 percent after at least
five grenades exploded in a Bangkok financial district near
an anti-government protest. Russian, Hungarian and Czech
index gains lifted the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  
 The euro rose to $1.3328, snapping a decline that
pushed it to $1.3202 earlier, the lowest level since April
30, 2009. The Australian dollar slid 0.5 percent versus the
U.S. currency after central bank Governor Glenn Stevens
said interest rates are “close to average,” damping
speculation policy makers will raise borrowing costs.  
 Pound Weakens  
 The pound weakened 0.4 percent against the euro,
erasing earlier gains, after the U.K. economy grew half as
much as economists forecast in the first three months of
this year. It lost 0.2 percent compared with the dollar.  
 Greece’s ASE Index of stocks jumped 3.8 percent while
the yield premium that investors demand to hold the
government’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds narrowed
to 540 basis points.  
 Greek bonds and stocks plunged yesterday, dragging
down European markets, as Moody’s Investors Service cut its
rating on Greek debt one step to A3 and the European Union
revised the country’s budget deficit higher. Credit-default
swaps on Greek government bonds fell 54 basis points to 591
today, after rising to a record 650 basis points yesterday,
according to CMA DataVision prices.  
 Nickel for delivery in three months fell 1 percent to
$26,825 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. Aluminum
and zinc also declined. Crude oil for June delivery was
little changed at $83.69 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Carrigan in London at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A euro note and a U.S. one dollar bill are arranged for a photograph in London, on Feb. 24, 2010. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Volvo FH16 truck is seen in this handout photograph provided to the media on Feb. 5, 2010. Source: Volvo via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
