-- Stocks, Euro Gain After Greece Asks for Aid
-- Michael P. Regan
-- 2010-04-23T20:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/stocks-euro-gain-after-greece-asks-for-eu-imf-bailout-greek-bonds-rise.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks and commodities gained,
while Treasuries and the dollar fell, as the biggest jump in new
U.S. home sales since 1963 fueled optimism the economic recovery
is strengthening.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent to
1,217.28 at 4 p.m. in New York, wiping out losses triggered by
the government’s April 16 lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. An S&P gauge of 12 U.S. homebuilders extended this week’s
rally to 13 percent, the biggest since July. Oil climbed 1.7
percent to $85.12 a barrel, while the dollar fell for the first
time in seven days against the euro. Ten-year Treasury yields
lost 0.04 percentage point to 3.81 percent.  
 The 27 percent growth in new home sales coupled with an
increase in orders for most durable goods added to evidence the
economy is strengthening as S&P 500 companies top analysts’
earnings estimates at a record pace. In Europe, equities pared a
weekly decline after Adidas AG raised its earnings forecast and
Germany’s Ifo Institute said business confidence jumped to a
two-year high.  
 “The recovery is sustainable,” said Jack Ablin, chief
investment officer at Chicago-based Harris Private Bank, who
oversees $55 billion. “Things are starting to fall into place
in different areas of the economy. It’s telling us a pretty good
story.”  
 47 Years  
 The S&P 500 climbed 2.1 percent during the past five days,
its seventh weekly rally in the past eight weeks. Pulte Group
Inc. and D.R. Horton Inc. paced a rally in all 12 shares in a
gauge of homebuilders. The gain in new-home sales was the
biggest in 47 years as buyers rushed to qualify for a government
tax credit and the weather improved, a Commerce Department
report showed. Bookings for goods meant to last at least three
years, excluding cars and aircraft, climbed 2.8 percent.  
 American Express Co. advanced 2.7 percent today on earnings
that beat analysts’ estimates, and Merck & Co. surged 5 percent
as the drugmaker said the U.S. health-care overhaul won’t hurt
long-term growth. Energy companies rallied on the jump in oil.  
 More than 80 percent of S&P 500 companies that have
reported first-quarter results beat the average analyst earnings
estimate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That would be
the highest full-quarter proportion in data going back to 1993.  
 The improving economic data spurred speculation the
recovery is gaining enough momentum for the Federal Reserve to
begin considering plans to boost interest rates. Trading in Fed
funds futures showed a 25 percent chance the central bank will
lift rates by its August meeting, compared with 16 percent odds
a week ago. Futures trading still prices in no chance of a boost
at the policy meeting next week.  
 Europe’s Weekly Drop  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.8 percent. The benchmark
gauge for European shares declined 0.2 percent since April 16,
its second straight weekly loss.  
 Adidas, the world’s second-biggest sporting-goods maker,
advanced 3.9 percent in Frankfurt and Volvo AB, the second-
largest truckmaker, soared 10 percent in Stockholm, the most in
14 months. Akzo Nobel NV rallied 4.6 percent after posting
increased earnings and receiving expressions of interest for its
food additives unit. Taylor Wimpey Plc, the homebuilder that
gets 32 percent of revenue from North America, soared the most
in almost a year as U.S. home sales jumped.  
 Greek two-year notes fell, capping the biggest weekly
increase in yields on record, after a government request for aid
failed to assuage concern that bondholders will be asked to
accept delayed or reduced payments.  
 Yields Jump  
 The declines pushed up the yield to near yesterday’s 11-
year high. The notes rose earlier, driving the yield down as
much as 1 percentage point before the announcement. Prime
Minister George Papandreou said he gave the Finance Ministry a
mandate to ask the European Union today to release the aid. The
Greek request needs approval from all 15 other euro-area
countries including Germany, where surveys have shown public
opposition to aiding Greece.  
 Greece’s ASE equities index slipped 0.2 percent, erasing a
rally of 4.6 percent from earlier in the day.  
 The premium investors demand to hold bonds of developing
nations instead of Treasuries fell by five basis points to 240
basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data. Emerging
market bond funds took in $1.28 billion in the third week of
April, a tally second only to the previous week’s record $1.8
billion of inflows, ahead of debt offerings from Egypt and
Russia, EPFR Global said.  
 Emerging-market stocks rose for a third time this week. The
MSCI Emerging Markets Index of shares in 22 countries climbed
0.3 percent. Russia’s Micex index rose 1.7 percent after Goldman
Sachs said there’s 28 percent “upside potential” in the equity
market this year and stock funds posted a 10th week of inflows.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.5 percent on concern
government measures to curb the property market will reduce
spending. Brazil’s Bovespa index fluctuated.  
 Copper futures for July delivery rose 0.7 percent to
$3.5305 a pound in New York. Gold futures rose 0.9 percent to
$1,153.70 an ounce.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 Mregan12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A euro note and a U.S. one dollar bill are arranged for a photograph in London, on Feb. 24, 2010. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Kai Carstensen, an economist at the Ifo Economic Institute, talks with Bloomberg's Andrea Catherwood about the institute's April survey of German business confidence.
     The Ifo institute said today that its business climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, jumped to 101 from 98.2 in March. That’s the highest reading since May 2008. Carstensen speaks from Munich. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks advanced, extending the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s longest weekly winning streak in six years, as the biggest jump in new home sales in almost five decades bolstered optimism the economy is improving. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Volvo FH16 truck is seen in this handout photograph provided to the media on Feb. 5, 2010. Source: Volvo via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
