-- Stocks, Euro Gain After Greece Asks for Aid
-- Justin Carrigan
-- 2010-04-23T10:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/stocks-euro-gain-after-greece-asks-for-aid.html

          
          
             Stocks in Europe rose and the euro
strengthened from a one-year low against the dollar after Greece
said it will ask the European Union for a rescue package and
German business confidence and earnings at companies including
Volvo AB beat forecasts. Greek stocks and bonds rallied.  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.7 percent as of 6:15
a.m. in New York and futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
added 0.2 percent. Russia’s Micex Index gained 1.1 percent
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said stocks may advance 28
percent. The euro rose 0.3 percent versus the dollar after six
days of declines. Greek 10-year bonds ended an eight-day losing
streak, narrowing the yield premium to benchmark German bunds by
63 basis points.  
 Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou said today he has
given the Finance Ministry a mandate to ask the EU to release an
aid package designed to help the government stave off a default.
About 85 percent of companies in the S&P 500 that have reported
first-quarter results beat the average analyst earnings
estimate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Germany’s Ifo
Institute said today business confidence jumped to a two-year
high.  
 “The market was testing Greece’s resolve as the May
redemption approached, and that should calm them down for a few
months,” said Charles Diebel, the senior fixed-income
strategist at Nomura International Plc in London. “They had to
do something, because it was just getting out of control.”  
 Volvo Surges  
 Greece’s ASE Index of stocks jumped 3.4 percent while the
yield premium that investors demand to hold the government’s 10-
year bonds instead of German bunds narrowed below 500 basis
points.  
 Greek bonds and stocks plunged yesterday, dragging down
European markets, as Moody’s Investors Service cut its rating on
Greek debt one step to A3 and the European Union revised the
country’s budget deficit higher. Credit-default swaps on Greek
government bonds fell 54 basis points to 591 today, after rising
to a record 650 basis points yesterday, according to CMA
DataVision prices.  
 Volvo, the world’s second-largest truckmaker, surged 13
percent in Stockholm. Akzo Nobel NV, the biggest coatings
company, rallied 5.7 percent in Amsterdam after saying earnings
increased. Adidas AG, the world’s second-largest sporting-goods
maker, gained 3.5 percent in Frankfurt after raising its profit
forecast.  
 U.S. Futures  
 The gain in U.S. futures indicated the S&P 500 may extend
yesterday’s 0.2 percent advance. American Express Co. rose 2.1
percent in Germany after posting higher profit. Gains were
limited as Microsoft Corp. lost 3.2 percent in early New York
trading after reporting sales that missed the most optimistic
estimates. Honeywell International Inc. and Xerox Corp. are
among 11 companies in the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities that
are scheduled to report earnings today.  
 Orders for long-lasting goods probably climbed in March for
a fourth consecutive month, rising 0.2 percent after a 0.9
percent gain in February, economists said before a report from
the Commerce Department due at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. A
separate report at 10 a.m. may show new-home purchases advanced
5.5 percent to a 325,000 annual rate from the prior month,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 China’s Shanghai Composite Index retreated 0.5 percent
after the State Council told banks to stop loans for third-home
purchases in cities with excessive property price gains.
Thailand’s SET Index fell 1.3 percent after at least five
grenades exploded in a Bangkok financial district near an anti-
government protest. Russian, Hungarian and Czech index gains
lifted the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  
 Aussie Slides  
 The euro rose to $1.3309, snapping a decline that pushed it
to $1.3202 earlier, the lowest level since April 30, 2009. The
Australian dollar slid 0.7 percent versus the U.S. currency
after central bank Governor Glenn Stevens said interest rates
are “close to average,” damping speculation policy makers will
raise borrowing costs.  
 The pound weakened 0.3 percent against the euro, erasing
earlier gains, after the U.K. economy grew half as much as
economists forecast in the first three months of this year. It
lost 0.1 percent compared with the dollar.  
 Nickel for delivery in three months fell 1 percent to
$26,825 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. Aluminum and
zinc also declined. Crude oil for June delivery was little
changed at $83.69 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Carrigan in London at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A euro note and a U.S. one dollar bill are arranged for a photograph in London, on Feb. 24, 2010. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Simon Derrick, chief currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., talks about Greece's call to activate a financial lifeline from the European Union and International Monetary Fund.
     Derrrick speaks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton from London.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Volvo FH16 truck is seen in this handout photograph provided to the media on Feb. 5, 2010. Source: Volvo via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
