-- Sugar, Rice Output to Gain in India as Weather Bureau Predicts Normal Rain
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-04-23T14:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/sugar-rice-output-to-gain-in-india-as-weather-bureau-predicts-normal-rain.html

          
          
             Rice, sugar cane and oilseeds
output in India may increase this year as monsoon rainfall
returns to normal after an unexpected drought last year led to
record imports of food staples.  
 Rains in the June-September rainy season may be 98 percent
of the 50-year average, the India Meteorological Department, a
state forecaster, said in a statement today. Falls can be five
percent more or less than forecast, the agency said.  
 India overtook China as the world’s biggest palm oil buyer
and became the largest sugar importer after the weakest monsoon
in more than three decades last year created shortages. Adequate
rains may help Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s efforts to tame
food inflation that rose near an 11-year high this year.  
 “It’s very critical that we have a normal monsoon this
year to prevent inflation from going through the roof,” said
Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist at Crisil Ltd., the Indian
unit of Standard & Poor’s. “It’s also important for keeping
economic growth at around 8 percent level.”  
 Today’s forecast matches prediction for a normal monsoon by
two government officials on April 21.  
 Dry weather caused by the El Nino weather event has raised
concerns this year that production of rice in the Philippines
and Thailand, palm oil in Malaysia and Indonesia, and coffee in
Vietnam may be reduced, spurring food inflation.  
 Interest Rates  
 A weak monsoon may force the Reserve Bank of India to step
up efforts to curb inflation, Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said in
an interview to Bloomberg-UTV April 21. The central bank raised
its three policy rates by a quarter point each on April 20 after
increasing rates by a similar step last month.  
 India’s $1.2 trillion economy, Asia’s largest after Japan
and China, will grow 8 percent “with an upward bias” in the
year ending March 31, according to the central bank.  
 El Nino is “on the decline” and will likely stay near-
neutral in the rainy season, Ajit Tyagi, director general of the
IMD, told reporters. A “weak” La Nina cycle that brings more
rain may develop by July and August, he said.  
 “This would have a positive impact on water-prone crops
like sugar cane and rice,” Mehul Agrawal, an analyst at Mumbai-
based Sharekhan Ltd., said in an e-mailed note today. “Farmers’
preference toward these crops would weigh on the higher side
given the remunerative prices.”  
 The government today raised the minimum price that cane-
farmers will get by 7 percent to 139.12 rupees ($3.10) for 100
kilograms in the season starting Oct. 1. In October last year,
the price of rice was raised by 50 rupees for 100 kilograms.  
 Sugar Imports  
 Sugar output may be 23 million tons in 2010-2011, compared
with 18.5 million tons forecast this year, Vinay Kumar, managing
director of National Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories
Ltd., said April 20. That may help the country pare imports that
reached 3.4 million tons since Oct. 1, 2009, Kumar said.  
 Raw-sugar has slumped 47 percent from near a three-decade
high in February. The price touched 16.05 cents a pound today in
New York, the lowest since April 8. A rebound will be capped by
the prediction of a good monsoon in India, said Michael Ferrari,
vice president at the Weather Trends International Inc.  
 The 135-year-old IMD has miscalculated the monsoon rain in
recent years. Last April, rains were forecast to be 96 percent
of the long-range average, and there was a drought. In 2007,
showers exceeded forecast. The “normal” prediction in 2002
preceded the nation’s worst drought since 1987.  
 The bureau’s estimate is widely watched as more than three-
quarters of the country’s rain is monsoonal.  
 “While the first estimate is encouraging, as seen last
year, what is equally important is the timeliness and
distribution of rainfall,” Citigroup Inc. economists Rohini
Malkani and Anushka Shah wrote in a note today.  
 Citigroup maintained its economic growth estimate of 8.4
percent for the year to March 31, 2011.  
 The weather office will update today’s estimate in June.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        