-- Swiss Re, Lloyd's See Boost for Insurers in Dodd Bill
-- Jamie McGee
-- 2010-04-23T14:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/swiss-re-lloyd-s-of-london-see-boost-for-insurers-in-dodd-financial-bill.html

          
          
             Tucked into Senator Christopher
Dodd’s 1,408-page proposal to overhaul U.S. financial
regulations is a measure drawing cheers from overseas insurers
including Swiss Reinsurance Co., Ace Ltd. and Lloyd’s of London.  
 The provision would help the companies preempt state rules
that govern reinsurers by creating a U.S. Treasury Department
office to negotiate international regulations. Non-U.S.
reinsurers say they’re hobbled in the $63 billion U.S. market
because they’re required to post higher collateral than their
domestic competitors.  
 “This is an additional layer of money that is basically an
issue of trust,” Don Preston, senior regulatory officer for
Zurich-based Swiss Re, said in an interview. “Does the U.S.
trust that a foreign-owned company like Swiss Re is going to pay
its obligations to U.S. clients?”  
 Opponents of the provision say the Treasury’s new power
would be used on behalf of companies rather than consumers.  
 “It’s absolutely a giveaway to the insurance industry,”
said Representative Jackie Speier, a California Democrat.
“Consumer protections will be wiped out.” Speier got the
measure weakened in related legislation that passed the House of
Representatives.  
 The Dodd measure would let the office override state rules
that discriminate against foreign insurers or don’t match deals
the Treasury negotiates. The American Insurance Association,
which represents insurers including Chubb Corp., is also
fighting for the provision, saying it would help open markets in
Europe or Asia.  
 ‘We Lack a Negotiator’  
 The Treasury office could help tie U.S. regulations to new
rules, called Solvency II, that are set to take effect in the
European Union in 2012 and would allow U.S. companies to compete
on an equal footing in that market, said David Snyder, general
counsel of the insurance association.  
 Without the office “we lack a negotiator to participate in
negotiations on behalf of the U.S. industry,” Snyder said in an
interview.  
 The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which
represents state regulators, wrote to Dodd, the Connecticut
Democrat who heads the Senate Banking Committee, expressing its
preference for the tighter restrictions on preemption in the
House bill.  
 State Regulators  
 “Our concern is that you would continue to take parts of
our regulatory authority from us and put it at the federal
level,” Jane Cline, the West Virginia insurance commissioner
and president of the national association, said in an interview.
The companies “prefer a federal charter,” she said. “In my
mind it’s about seeking less regulatory oversight.”  
 U.S. property and casualty reinsurance, which provides
backup protection to insurance companies, is a $63 billion
industry, based on gross written premiums in 2009, according to
Aon Corp., the world’s largest insurance broker.  
 Companies are spending in support of the provision. Lloyd’s
of London, the world’s oldest insurance market, spent $380,000
on lobbying in the first three months of 2010 on this and other
measures. Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer after
Munich Re, spent $40,000 in that period. Zurich-based Ace spent
$1.17 million on lobbying in the quarter.  
 “These issues are inherently global and transnational,”
Charles Landgraf, a partner at Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP in Washington
who is lobbying for Lloyd’s of London in support of the Dodd
measure, said in an interview. “They are mixing and matching
risks in different markets.”  
 Andrew Williams, a spokesman for the Treasury Department,
had no immediate comment. Mark Greenberg, a spokesman for Chubb,
declined to comment.  
 ‘Financial Strength’  
 “We believe that collateral should be based on the
financial strength of a reinsurer, not its place of domicile,”
Ace Chief Executive Officer Evan Greenberg said in an e-mailed
statement. Ace’s long-term credit rating at Standard & Poor’s is
A-, the seventh best of 10 investment-grade levels. S&P raised
the outlook to positive in December 2008, citing “very strong
operating performance.” Swiss Re is rated A+, the fifth best.  
 The Dodd measure isn’t the first time insurance companies
have made the case for greater federal control over the
industry, which is governed by individual regulations in each of
the 50 states.  
 Passage of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 that removed
sections of the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act separating banks,
insurance companies and securities firms, included some
preemption of state insurance regulation, according to the NAIC.  
 Paulson, Geithner  
 Then-Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson proposed creating an
optional federal charter for insurance companies in 2008.
Lawmakers were set to vote on a stand-alone measure similar to
the one in the Dodd bill in September 2008. That vote was
delayed after financial markets collapsed.  
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner picked up the idea
in a proposal last June, saying it would “promote national
coordination in the insurance sector.”  
 The Senate is scheduled to take up Dodd’s bill next week.
The legislation would create a consumer protection bureau at the
Federal Reserve and a council of regulators to monitor the
financial system for systemic risk. It also would strengthen
oversight of derivatives and hedge funds.  
 Public Citizen, a Washington-based consumer group founded
by Ralph Nader, says the insurance provision in the bill may be
shortsighted.  
 “It is incomprehensible that, in the context of pledges
worldwide to reregulate financial services, any measure which
promotes further deregulation and threatens state consumer
protections would be considered by Congress,” Public Citizen
said in talking points it’s using against the provision.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net 
Jamie McGee in New York at 
 jmcgee8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Christopher "Chris" Dodd, a Democrat from Connecticut and chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, speaks during a news conference in Washington, on March 15, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Levene, chairman of Lloyd's of London, talks with Bloomberg's Carol Massar and Matt Miller about U.S. Senator Christopher Dodd's proposal to overhaul U.S. financial regulation. 
     A provision in the bill would help overseas insurers, including Lloyd's, preempt state rules that govern reinsurers by creating a U.S. Treasury Department office to negotiate international regulations. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
