-- U.K. Offshore Wind Power Reaches 1 Gigawatt as E.ON, Dong Farms Start Up
-- Alex Morales
-- 2010-04-23T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/u-k-offshore-wind-power-reaches-1-gigawatt-as-e-on-dong-farms-start-up.html

          
          
             U.K. offshore wind power now has 1
gigawatt of generating capacity after projects by E.ON AG and
Dong Energy A/S began producing electricity, the industry group
RenewableUK said.  
 The “landmark” figure -- enough to power 653,000 homes --
was reached this week when E.ON’s Robin Rigg and Dong’s Gunfleet
Sands wind parks started operating, the group said today in an
e-mailed statement.  
 “In the first quarter of this year alone, $500 million
pounds ($768 million) of private investment has been invested
directly into offshore wind in the U.K.,” RenewableUK Chief
Executive Officer Maria McCaffery said in the statement.  
 The U.K. in 2008 overtook Denmark to become the leading
nation in terms of installed offshore wind power. Prime Minister
Gordon Brown’s government, facing an election on May 6, is
betting on the technology to cut emissions of carbon dioxide and
meet European Union renewable energy targets.  
 Brown’s ruling Labour Party and the two main opposition
groups, the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats, have all
pledged measures to boost offshore wind production should they
win the general election.  
 General Electric Co. last month said it would build a new
plant in Britain to make offshore wind turbines, and Clipper
Windpower Plc in February began building a factory to make
offshore turbine blames. Siemens AG is also studying whether to
build a new wind-power equipment facility in the U.K.  
 Farms with a further 4 gigawatts of capacity have planning
permission or are being built, RenewableUK said. In January, the
government awarded licenses for 32,200 megawatts of projects to
companies including Centrica Plc, RWE AG and Statoil ASA.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        