-- Durable Orders Jump in Sign of Recovery
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-04-23T12:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/u-s-durable-goods-orders-excluding-transportation-jump-by-most-since-2007.html

          
          
             Orders for durable goods excluding
transportation surged in March by the most since the recession
began in December 2007, adding to evidence the U.S. recovery is
broadening and strengthening.  
 The 2.8 percent increase in bookings for goods meant to
last at least three years, excluding cars and aircraft, was four
times larger than the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, figures from the Commerce Department showed
today in Washington. Total orders unexpectedly dropped 1.3
percent, depressed by a 67 percent plunge in demand for
commercial aircraft that is often volatile.  
 Eaton Corp. is among companies that may see sales grow as
the global economic rebound propels exports, and rising profits
spur investments in new equipment. A broadening of the expansion
beyond factories is dependent on employment gains following the
worst recession in seven decades.  
 “The capital spending rebound we saw take place in the
second half of last year continues to look pretty healthy into
the first half of this year,” said Michael Feroli, chief U.S.
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, who forecast a
2.3 percent gain in non-transportation orders. “The
manufacturing sector continues to perform well.”  
 Stock-index futures added to earlier gains following the
report. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2
percent to 1,204.6 at 8:44 a.m. in New York. Treasury securities
fell, pushing the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 3.82
percent from 3.77 percent late yesterday.  
 Median Forecast  
 Economists projected a 0.2 percent gain in orders,
according to the median of 75 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Forecasts ranged from a decline of 1.6 percent to a 2.5
percent increase. The government revised the February gain in
total bookings up to 1.1 percent from a previously reported 0.9
percent gain.  
 Excluding transportation equipment, orders were forecast to
rise 0.7 percent, according to the survey median.  
 Last month’s gain in orders was broad-based as demand for
computers, machinery, metals, electrical equipment and
automobiles climbed. The 3.4 percent gain in orders for
computers and electrical equipment was the biggest in a year.  
 Boeing, the world’s second-biggest commercial-plane maker,
said it received 43 orders in March, down from 47 orders a month
earlier. Boeing’s marketing chief Randy Tinseth said in a
Bloomberg TV interview this week that orders this year were
expected to match last year’s 15-year low of 142.  
 More Investment  
 Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
a proxy for future business investment, increased 4 percent.
Shipments of those items, used in calculating gross domestic
product, increased 2.2 percent.  
 Orders excluding defense equipment decreased 1.2 percent
and bookings for military gear fell 4 percent.  
 Factories are ramping up output as improving economies from
Brazil to China and India boost overseas sales and rising U.S.
demand prompts companies to update equipment and replenish
stockpiles after last year’s record drawdown.  
 Factories boosted durable-goods inventories by 0.2 percent,
a third straight gain.  
 Exports rose in February to the highest level since October
2008, the Commerce Department reported last week. Manufacturing
last month expanded at the fastest pace since 2004, according to
a national survey of purchasing managers.  
 Raising Forecasts  
 Eaton, the Cleveland-based maker of engine valves and
transmissions, is among companies profiting from growth in
demand for car and truck parts. This week it posted first-
quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates and raised its
2010 earnings forecast.  
 “The expanding world economy drove growth in most of our
markets,” Chief Executive Officer Sandy Cutler said in a
statement. “In general we are seeing the strongest growth in
Asia and Brazil, while many U.S. markets are starting to
accelerate and Europe is recovering more modestly.”  
 Business investment in equipment and software climbed at a
19 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, the biggest gain
in 11 years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A mechanic walks past a newly delivered Boeing 777-300ER passenger jet for All Nippon Airways Co. in the company's hanger at Narita Airport in Chiba Prefecture, a suburb of Tokyo, on April 16, 2010. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
