-- U.S. Senate Budget Committee Approves $3.7 Trillion Spending Blueprint
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-04-23T04:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/u-s-senate-budget-committee-approves-3-7-trillion-spending-blueprint.html

          
          
             A U.S. Senate panel approved a $3.7
trillion budget plan that calls for modest steps toward cutting
government spending while leaving tougher efforts to reduce the
federal deficit to future years.  
 The plan calls for cutting discretionary spending, the
portion of the budget that must be approved each year by
Congress, by $9.5 billion. Almost half of those savings would
come out of State Department and other international programs.  
 The spending blueprint, approved 12-10 by the Senate Budget
Committee yesterday, anticipates next year’s deficit will total
$1.26 trillion, down from the panel’s projection of $1.44
trillion in red ink this year.  
 With Democrats no longer having the 60-seat
“supermajority” needed to end debates by the full Senate, the
plan would allow unspecified tax policy changes to be passed by
the chamber relying on the same fast-track reconciliation
procedure that was used to approve President Barack Obama’s
health-care overhaul.  
 The budget plan envisions reducing the deficit by 70
percent, to $545 billion, by 2015 mainly by requiring lawmakers
to begin in 2012 financing cuts in the alternative minimum tax
and estate taxes with equivalent savings elsewhere. It doesn’t
call for reductions in quickly growing entitlement programs such
as Medicare, leaving that to an independent fiscal commission
created earlier this year by Obama.  
 ‘Self-Defeating’  
 Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad, a North
Dakota Democrat, said lawmakers didn’t want to risk the economic
recovery this year with more sweeping spending cuts. “You don’t
impose pain in the middle of an economic downturn; that would be
self-defeating,” he said.  
 Representative Judd Gregg, the top Republican on the panel,
called the savings a “drop in the bucket.” He also said that
“despite massive deficits and debt as far as the eye can see,
this budget fails to make any progress on getting the
government’s spending and borrowing spree under control.”  
 The budget, for the 2011 fiscal year beginning Oct. 1, sets
the parameters for Congress’s tax-and-spending debate on
specific bills funding government agencies. It must be approved
by the House and Senate. House Democratic leaders have suggested
they may forgo adoption of the blueprint this year because it
would require politically difficult votes.  
 Clinton, Gates Object  
 The proposals to cut the administration’s international
spending programs drew objections from Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton and Defense Secretary Robert Gates. “I
appreciate the difficult budget environment that confronts the
Congress but I strongly believe this budget request is critical
to advancing U.S. national security and our interests around the
world,” Clinton said in a letter to Conrad.  
 Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, a Montana
Democrat who is the chamber’s chief tax writer, declined to say
yesterday which tax provisions could be approved through
reconciliation, which would allow Democrats to pass them in the
Senate with a simple majority. Democrats control the chamber
with 59 votes. “I have some ideas,” said Baucus, adding “we
don’t even have a budget yet” and “we’re getting way ahead of
ourselves.”  
 Democrats were forced to allow the estate tax on
multimillionaires to lapse this year after they were unable to
produce the 60 votes needed to extend it. The budget panel’s
plan assumes the estate tax will be set at last year’s levels,
with a $7 million exemption for couples, indexed for inflation,
and a top rate of 45 percent.  
 Some of the tax cuts pushed into law by former President
George W. Bush are slated to expire this year. The budget
measure endorses Obama’s call to extend those that benefit
families earning less than $250,000.  
 It also adheres to the administration’s defense-spending
request, setting aside $766 billion for the Pentagon, including
$192 billion for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
 The alternative minimum tax, created to ensure the wealthy
don’t avoid paying taxes through various means, isn’t indexed
for inflation so lawmakers cut it each year to prevent it from
hitting more taxpayers. That has proved increasingly expensive,
projected to cost almost $70 billion in fiscal 2011.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at   or
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        