-- Stocks Extend Streak as Homebuilders Advance
-- Rita Nazareth
-- 2010-04-23T21:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-amex-rises-in-german-trading.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks advanced, extending the
Dow Jones Industrial Average’s longest weekly winning streak in
six years, as the biggest jump in new home sales in almost five
decades bolstered optimism the economy is improving.  
 Pulte Group Inc. rallied 5.7 percent after purchases of new
homes rose 27 percent in March, the most since 1963, as buyers
took advantage of a tax credit. American Express Co. advanced
2.7 percent on earnings that beat analysts’ estimates, and Merck
& Co. surged 5 percent as the drugmaker said the U.S. health-
care overhaul won’t hurt long-term growth. Energy companies
rallied as the dollar weakened against the euro for the first
time in seven days, sending oil higher.  
 “This economic recovery is sustainable,” said Philip
Orlando, the New York-based chief equity market strategist at
Federated Investors, which manages about $400 billion. “The
new-home sales numbers are just great. Corporate earnings have
been phenomenal. The trend for stocks is higher.”  
 The Dow climbed 69.99 points, or 0.6 percent, to 11,204.28
at the 4 p.m. close in New York, completing an eighth straight
weekly gain. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent to
a 19-month high of 1,217.28, capping its seventh weekly advance
in the past eight. The gauge climbed 2.1 percent over the past
five days, wiping out its 1.6 percent loss on April 16 when the
government sued Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for fraud.  
 Stocks erased early losses after figures from the Commerce
Department showed purchases of new homes climbed to an annual
pace of 411,000 that exceeded the highest forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Last month’s purchase rate was the
highest since July and followed a record-low of 324,000 in
February that was higher than previously estimated.  
 Lennar, AmEx  
 An S&P gauge of 12 homebuilders rose 3.4 percent to cap a
13 percent weekly rally, its biggest in almost a year. Pulte
climbed 5.7 percent to $13.19, Standard Pacific Corp. surged 6.8
percent to $6.58, while Lennar Corp. gained 4 percent to $20.53.  
 American Express advanced 2.7 percent to $48.05 after the
biggest U.S. credit-card issuer by purchases said first-quarter
profit doubled as consumers boosted spending.  
 Merck had the biggest gain in the Dow, surging 5 percent to
$35.46. The health-care law won’t affect the forecast of annual
earnings growth of almost 10 percent through 2013, Merck said,
without providing specific numbers.  
 Energy companies rallied 2.3 percent as a group, for the
biggest gain among 10 S&P 500 industries, while raw-materials
companies rose 1.3 percent.  
 Oil, Gold, Copper  
 Crude oil jumped 1.7 percent to $85.12 a barrel on optimism
that economic growth in the world’s biggest energy-consuming
country will accelerate. Gold gained after the dollar halted a
six-session rally against the euro, boosting the appeal of the
precious metal as an alternative investment. Copper and silver
also advanced.  
 Schlumberger Ltd. surged 6.6 percent to $72.68. The world’s
largest oilfield contractor said international profit margins
hit bottom earlier than it forecast.  
 About 80 percent of S&P 500 companies that have reported
first-quarter results beat the average analyst earnings
estimate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, which could
mark a record proportion in data going back to 1993.  
 “The earnings season has been excellent,” said Tom Wirth,
senior investment officer for Chemung Canal Trust Co., which
manages $1.6 billion in Elmira, New York. “Profit outlooks are
not too far off of what analysts were expecting. Economic
reports are not only showing that we continue to come out of the
recession, but we’re in a powerful recovery.”  
 Western Digital  
 Western Digital Corp. had the biggest gain in the S&P 500,
rising 9.9 percent to $44.71. The maker of computer hard-disk
drives reported fiscal third-quarter profit excluding some items
of $1.71 a share, 10 percent higher than the average analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The shares were upgraded to
“buy” from “hold” at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. and to
“outperform” from “neutral” at Robert W. Baird & Co.  
 Sears Holdings Corp. gained 8.1 percent to $122.01. The
biggest U.S. department-store company agreed to buy William
Ackman’s hedge fund’s stake in Sears Canada Inc., in a move that
would allow it to take the company private.  
 International Game Technology climbed 8.1 percent to
$21.18. The world’s biggest maker of slot machines reported
second-quarter profit rose 6.8 percent, matching analysts’
estimates, as casinos replaced older games.  
 Microsoft Corp. and Amazon.com Inc. fell as their results
showed a rebound in technology and consumer spending may be less
robust than analysts predicted.  
 Corporate Customers  
 Microsoft dropped 1.4 percent to $30.96 after saying third-
quarter sales rose 6.3 percent to $14.5 billion, missing the
most optimistic revenue estimates, a sign that corporate
customers may be putting off computer purchases.  
 Amazon.com, the biggest online retailer, said operating
income this quarter may be as low as $220 million. That missed
the $322.2 million average prediction of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, signaling its profitability may come under pressure
as consumers’ tastes shift to digital books and movies. Amazon
slid 4.3 percent to $143.63.  
 DeVry Inc. fell the most in the S&P 500, dropping 6.5
percent to $69.46. The owner of for-profit technical schools and
colleges faces enrollment declines in areas of its business that
it is expanding, which “could pressure” the stock, BMO Capital
Markets wrote in a note to clients.  
 Durable Goods Orders  
 Orders for durable goods excluding transportation surged in
March by the most since the recession began in December 2007,
adding to evidence the U.S. recovery is broadening. The 2.8
percent increase in bookings, excluding cars and aircraft, was
four times the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Total orders unexpectedly dropped 1.3 percent on
a 67 percent plunge in demand for commercial aircraft.  
 The growth in orders spurred concern that the Federal
Reserve may consider the economic recovery strong enough to
withstand an increase in the central bank’s benchmark interest
rates from a record low.  
 “It might be possible that some are concerned about the
FOMC changing it stance next week,” said Peter Jankovskis, who
helps manage about $1.8 billion as co-chief investment officer
at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle, Illinois. “I personally doubt
it. The Fed is set to keep rates low for a while.”  
 Trading in Fed funds futures showed a 25 percent chance the
central bank will lift rates by its August meeting, compared
with 16 percent odds a week ago. Futures trading still prices in
no chance of a boost at the policy meeting next week.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An American Express Co. logo is pictured in New York, on March 1, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li from Portland, Oregon, about Microsoft Corp.'s sales. 
     Microsoft, the world's largest software maker, reported third-quarter revenue that missed analysts’ most optimistic predictions, a sign that corporate customers may be putting off computer buying. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Mahaney, managing director at Citigroup Global Markets Inc., talks with Bloomberg’s Deirdre Bolton about the need for Amazon.com Inc. to lower the price of its Kindle digital reader.
     Mahaney also discusses Amazon's second-quarter forecast and the impact on its stock price. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks advanced, extending the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s longest weekly winning streak in six years, as the biggest jump in new home sales in almost five decades bolstered optimism the economy is improving. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
