-- UBS, SocGen, Madoff, Siemens, Celgene, Standard Chartered in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-04-23T12:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/ubs-socgen-madoff-siemens-celgene-standard-chartered-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. may be
better off cutting its losses instead of fighting what it terms
“unfounded” fraud claims, say professors of securities law who
have examined the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
lawsuit against the bank.  
 The most profitable firm in Wall Street history will
probably lose what is typically the first hurdle in court, a
motion to throw out the April 16 suit because it lacks legal
merit, the professors said in interviews this week. After that,
Goldman Sachs’s risks will mount and its negotiating position
will weaken, they said.  
 “There’s a very low probability that Goldman could get the
case dismissed,” said Thomas Hazen of the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, whose books include a two-volume
treatise on broker-dealer law. “Every pretrial motion the SEC
wins, Goldman gets one step closer to losing.”  
 Goldman Sachs is the first major Wall Street firm accused
by regulators of fraud connected to the collapse of the subprime
mortgage market. The SEC’s allegation that Goldman Sachs
defrauded investors sparked a 13 percent, one-day decline in its
shares. The New York-based firm, led by Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd Blankfein, 55, said it will vigorously contest the claims.
It must weigh the risks of a drawn-out legal battle against the
benefits of a more immediate resolution.  
 Lucas van Praag, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment yesterday on the likelihood of getting the case
dismissed.  
 Even if top managers are certain they’re right on the
merits of the case, Goldman Sachs should probably settle, said
senior executives at three of the firm’s rivals. The executives,
speaking anonymously because they wouldn’t comment publicly on a
competitor, said Goldman Sachs would be better off by deciding
to settle the suit, cut its losses, and focus on repairing the
damage to the firm’s reputation.  
 The SEC’s case revolves around whether the firm should have
told investors that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the
underlying securities in a collateralized debt obligation -- and
then bet against it. Paulson wasn’t accused of wrongdoing.  
 For more, click here.  
 Goldman Director Gave Tip on Buffett Deal, WSJ Says  
 A Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director tipped off a hedge fund
billionaire about a $5 billion investment in the bank by Warren
Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. before it became public
knowledge, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing a person
familiar with the matter.  
 Goldman Sachs director Rajat Gupta told Galleon Group
founder Raj Rajaratnam about the Berkshire investment, the
newspaper quoted the source as saying. Federal investigators
wrote to Gupta to say they had intercepted phone calls between
Gupta and Rajaratnam, the report quoted the source as saying.  
 Goldman Sachs spokeswoman Connie Ling in Hong Kong declined
to comment on the report when contacted by Bloomberg News. Gupta
said last month he was stepping down as a Goldman Sachs
director.  
 The bank, the most profitable in Wall Street’s history, in
September 2008 agreed to sell $5 billion in preferred shares
that paid 10 percent interest to Buffett, after the Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy and Bank of America Corp.’s
purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co. Buffett remains comfortable with
his Goldman investment after regulators on April 16 sued the
bank for fraud, Berkshire Director Thomas Murphy said.  
 Rajaratnam is being sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission for insider trading, which he denies. Gupta
hasn’t been formally accused of any wrongdoing, the newspaper
said, adding that his lawyer said he hadn’t violated any law.  
 For more, click here.  
 Swiss Court Limits UBS Clients Who Can Block Tax Data  
 A Swiss court slashed the number of UBS AG clients who can
block the transfer of account data to U.S. tax authorities,
ruling emergency changes to national law remove obstacles to a
tax evasion settlement.  
 The ruling by the Swiss Federal Administrative Court in
Bern means that as few as 25 UBS clients may be exempt from an
agreement with the U.S. that seeks disclosure of data on 4,450
accounts. The government elevated the agreement to an
international treaty to circumvent earlier rulings that would
have allowed thousands to challenge the transfers.  
 Switzerland agreed in August to process account data for
the U.S. to help UBS settle a lawsuit that sought information on
as many as 52,000 bank clients suspected of tax evasion. The
Swiss Parliament is scheduled to vote in June on amendments
ministers made to national law in March.  
 “The protocol to change the agreement to provide legal
assistance is applicable -- at least provisionally -- since
March 31, 2010,” the judges said in the ruling published
yesterday. “Accordingly, even with proof of the requirement of
irreparable damage, this detriment cannot be corrected by a
decision now.”  
 In yesterday’s case, the court said a U.S. taxpayer
couldn’t use the prior court rulings to keep his account details
hidden from the Internal Revenue Service, because of the
provisional changes. The decision can’t be appealed.  
 The unidentified man said his facts are identical to those
in the earlier cases, where information was kept secret, and
sought an immediate ruling on the issue. The court said the
temporary legislation overruled his claims, three judges said.  
 For more, click here.  
 Zenith National Investors Lose Bid to Halt Buyout  
 Zenith National Insurance Corp. investors lost a bid to
block Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. from acquiring the insurer
for $1.3 billion in cash.  
 A Delaware judge, over Zenith shareholders’ objections that
executives are selling the California-based workers’
compensation insurer too cheaply, denied their request to halt
the buyout. Toronto-based Fairfax, a rival insurer, is offering
$38 a share for Zenith.  
 Chancery Court Judge J. Travis Laster in Wilmington
concluded yesterday that Stanley R. Zax, Zenith’s chairman and
chief executive officer, “acted reasonably” in negotiating the
buyout with Fairfax CEO Prem Watsa without consulting Zenith’s
board.  
 The ruling clears the way for Zenith shareholders to vote
on the deal April 29. Fairfax’s bid was 31 percent more than
Woodland Hills, California-based Zenith’s $28.91 closing price
the day before the Feb. 18 offer.  
 “We’re happy with the judge’s decision and look forward to
holding the shareholder vote as scheduled on April 29,” Mike
Jansen, Zenith’s executive vice president and general counsel,
said in a phone interview.  
 Paul Rivett, a Fairfax spokesman, and Carmella P. Keener, a
Wilmington-based lawyer for Zenith investors, didn’t return
calls for comment.  
 The case is In re Zenith National Insurance Corp.
Shareholders Litigation, 5296-VCL, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  
 For more, click here.  
 Ex-Societe Generale Trader Agrawal Is Denied Bail  
 Former Societe Generale trader Samarth Agrawal must remain
in jail following his arrest for stealing the company’s computer
code for high-frequency trading, a U.S. judge ruled.  
 Agrawal, 26, was arrested on April 19 and accused of making
copies of part of the code he’d been given access to and another
part that he hadn’t. U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael Dollinger in
New York yesterday denied Agrawal’s request for bail after
prosecutors argued he was a risk to flee to his native India.  
 “His incentive would be quite overwhelming to depart,”
Dollinger said. “His money is over there. His family is over
there.”  
 Agrawal’s lawyer, Steven M. Statsinger, told the judge that
eight or nine friends who appeared in court yesterday would have
been willing to guarantee his bond.  
 Societe Generale is France’s second-largest bank by market
value, behind BNP Paribas SA.  
 The case is U.S. v. Agrawal, 10-mag-00779, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Madoff’s DiPascali Should Forfeit $6.1 Million, U.S. Says  
 Federal prosecutors asked a judge to order Frank DiPascali,
who pleaded guilty to helping Bernard Madoff carry out the
largest U.S. Ponzi scheme, to forfeit personal property that
could net $6.1 million.  
 The property includes DiPascali’s home in Bridgewater, New
Jersey, appraised at $1.38 million, and its sellable contents, a
condominium in Haverford, Pennsylvania, cars, all-terrain
vehicles, water craft and bank accounts, according to a filing
April 21 in federal court in Manhattan.  
 Most of the property already has been turned over to the
government for sale, prosecutors said.  
 DiPascali pleaded guilty to 10 counts including conspiracy,
fraud and money laundering. He admitted misleading thousands of
clients at Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, saying
no securities trades took place in their accounts.  
 The case is United States of America v. Frank DiPascali
Jr., 09-cr-00764, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 BP, Transocean Sued Over Worker Feared Dead in Blast  
 BP Plc and Transocean Ltd. were sued by the family of one
of 11 workers missing and feared dead in the wake of an
explosion two days ago aboard an offshore drilling rig in the
Gulf of Mexico.  
 The family of Shane Roshto, a Transocean employee from
Mississippi, yesterday sued both companies for negligence in
federal court in New Orleans.  
 The Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, which is owned by
Transocean and leased by London-based BP, was working about 50
miles off the Louisiana coast when it exploded on April 20.  
 “Shane Roshto was thrown overboard by the force of the
drilling explosion, and his body has not yet been located,”
Scott Bickford, a lawyer representing the Roshto family, said in
the complaint. “The whereabouts of many crew members are still
unknown.”  
 The U.S. Coast Guard yesterday dispatched a search plane
and helicopter to join two boats searching the waters overnight,
Ashley Butler, a Coast Guard spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview. The Coast Guard said the rig has sunk.  
 Guy Cantwell, a spokesman for Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean, declined to comment on the worker’s lawsuit or
allegations the companies had violated safety rules.  
 “The cause of the fire and explosion is unknown at this
time,” the company said in a statement posted yesterday on its
Web site. “An investigation into the cause of the incident and
assessment of the damage will be ongoing in the days or weeks to
come.”  
 The case is Roshto v. Transocean Ltd. and BP Plc, 2:10-cv-
01156, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  
 Mariner Energy Faces Investor Suit Over Apache Bid  
 Mariner Energy Inc., the oil and gas explorer being bought
by Apache Corp. for more than $2 billion in cash and stock, was
sued in Delaware Chancery Court by a shareholder contending the
deal undervalues the company.  
 The sale comes at a fraction of Mariner’s true value, the
Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority said April 21
in a complaint in Delaware Chancery Court. Philadelphia-based
SEPTA is the nation’s fifth-largest public transportation
system.  
 “The merger represents a staggeringly good deal for Apache
and conversely a staggeringly bad deal for Mariner’s
shareholders,” lawyers for SEPTA said in the complaint.
“Mariner’s stockholders will receive a token cash payment and
shares in Apache, a much larger company with a wholly different
asset portfolio than Mariner’s.”  
 Apache, the second-largest independent U.S. oil producer,
has spent about $10 billion on acquisitions in the past decade.
Under the buyout, Mariner shareholders will get 0.17043 share of
Apache and $7.80 in cash for each of their shares. Apache will
assume $1.2 billion in debt.  
 A Mariner spokesman, Patrick Cassidy, said the company
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  
 The deal gives Apache access to Mariner’s 2 billion barrels
of oil equivalent in potential reserves, Simmons & Co. analyst
Bill Herbert said in an April 15 note to investors. The deal
will also add to Apache’s holdings in shallow Gulf of Mexico
waters and in the Permian Basin of West Texas.  
 SEPTA is seeking a court order barring the transaction plus
unspecified damages.  
 The case is SEPTA v. Josey, CA5427, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  
 Ex-Siemens Executive Charged With ‘Tolerating’ Bribery  
 Siemens AG’s former management board member Thomas
Ganswindt was charged by Munich prosecutors for failing to halt
corruption at the company.  
 Ganswindt, 49, was charged with failing to adequately
supervise a company and aiding both bribery and tax evasion, the
Munich Regional Court said in an e-mailed statement detailing
the allegations yesterday. The charges were made in January.  
 Ganswindt is the first former member of Siemens’s
management board to be indicted over the bribery scandal that
led to investigations in at least a dozen countries since 2006.
Siemens agreed to pay $1.6 billion to settle probes in the U.S.
and Germany in 2008. Probes against individual managers are
ongoing.  
 “The accused is alleged to have violated his duty of
seeing that laws are complied with at the company, by tolerating
and supporting a system of slush funds,” at Siemens, the court
said.  
 Ganswindt headed Siemens’s former communications unit from
2001 to 2004, when he became a member of the company’s central
management board. In mid-2003, he learned that former Siemens
employee Reinhard Siekaczek had set up a system of slush funds
at the unit, according to the charges.  
 Michael Rosenthal, Ganswindt’s attorney, declined to
comment.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Celgene to Get Canada High Court Hearing Over Thalomid Pricing  
 Celgene Corp., the biotechnology company specializing in
blood-cancer medicines, will get a hearing before Canada’s
highest court over the country’s demands to provide pricing
information for the drug Thalomid.  
 The Supreme Court of Canada yesterday agreed to hear
Celgene’s appeal of a Federal Court of Appeal ruling that said
Canada’s Patented Medicine Prices Review Board was entitled to
information about the pricing of the drug. The high court gave
no reason for its decision.  
 Celgene’s two top-selling drugs are Revlimid and Thalomid,
for a form of blood-cancer called multiple myeloma. They brought
in more than 80 percent of the company’s total $2.25 billion in
2008 revenue. Celgene didn’t have approval to sell Thalomid in
Canada, although it had permission from regulators to provide
the medicine to Canadian doctors for emergency treatment.  
 The appeals court, in a 2-1 ruling on Dec. 23, said the
price review board “has a legitimate interest” in the price
paid for the medicine “because this is the price that will be
paid for the medicine by the ultimate consumer in Canada.”  
 Celgene, based in Summit, New Jersey, had argued the drug
was sold at its New Jersey plant and shipped to the Canadian
doctors. As a result, Celgene said the review board didn’t have
the jurisdiction to demand the pricing information.  
 The case is Celgene Corp. v. Attorney General of Canada,
33422, Supreme Court of Canada (Ottawa).  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Standard Chartered Ordered to Pay Banker It Fired on First Day  
 Standard Chartered Plc was ordered by Singapore’s High
Court to pay Fermin Aldabe for wrongful dismissal after the
lender’s global senior risk manager said he would resign on his
first day on the job.  
 The London-based bank must pay Aldabe at least S$40,333
($29,384) including one month’s salary of S$27,500 and his wage
from Nov. 17 to Nov. 30, 2008, Justice Steven Chong said in his
judgment yesterday. Aldabe was fired after saying he’d resign
when told he wouldn’t be paid for a two-week period before the
start date stipulated in his offer letter.  
 While Standard Chartered will also have to reimburse Aldabe
his relocation costs to Singapore from Argentina, where he had
been based, Judge Chong rejected his claim for S$1.54 million
including losses for giving up another job opportunity. The
judge described the sum as “astronomical and outrageous.”  
 “The court has found that Standard Chartered is not above
the law and cannot withdraw from a contract without
consequences,” Aldabe, now a senior research fellow at the
National University of Singapore’s Risk Management Institute,
said in an e-mailed response yesterday, adding that he was
“very pleased” with the ruling.  
 Standard Chartered was “glad that a significant portion”
of Aldabe’s claim was dismissed, the bank said. The ruling is a
“substantial victory” as the bank successfully defended the
claim of fraudulent misrepresentation, said Standard Chartered’s
lawyer Herman Jeremiah from Rodyk & Davidson LLP.  
 The case is Aldabe Fermin v Standard Chartered Bank
174/2009/B in the Singapore High Court.  
 For more, click here.  
 Close Brothers Loses Appeal of $6.2 Million Fine  
 Close Brothers Group Plc, a British investment bank founded
in 1878, lost a court challenge over a 4 million-pound ($6.2
million) market-abuse fine levied by the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority.  
 Close Brothers’ Winterflood Securities unit and two of its
brokers were fined because they didn’t spot “warning signs” of
a 2004 share-ramping scheme in securities of Fundamental-E
Investments Plc, the FSA said. Close Brothers challenged the
fine, claiming that because it didn’t intend to distort the
price of the shares, it didn’t commit market abuse.  
 The Court of Appeal in London dismissed the appeal
yesterday. Justice Martin Moore-Bick said in the judgment that
FSA rules relating to “market abuse of a kind which creates a
false impression or distorts the market” aren’t limited to
situations when “the transaction was motivated, at least in
part, by an intention to achieve either of these results.”  
 “There is no finding, that Winterflood or its traders
deliberately or knowingly committed market abuse,” Close
Brothers said in an e-mailed statement. “This financial
penalty, together with the costs of the referral, has been fully
provided for by Winterflood in prior years.”  
 Two traders, Stephen Sotiriou and Jason Robins, were fined
200,000 pounds and 50,000 pounds respectively.  
 For more, click here.  
 Deutsche Telekom Should Lose Appeal of Fine, Court Aide Says  
 Deutsche Telekom AG, Europe’s biggest phone company, should
lose a final appeal of a 12.6 million-euro ($16.9 million)
European Union antitrust fine levied seven years ago for abusing
its dominant market position in Germany, an adviser to the EU’s
top court said.  
 The company’s appeal is “unfounded” and “must be
dismissed,” Advocate General Jan Mazak of the European Court of
Justice in Luxembourg said in a non-binding opinion yesterday.
The court follows such legal advice most of the time.  
 The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator,
accused Deutsche Telekom in May 2003 of overcharging competitors
for access to its local phone network, saying the Bonn-based
company’s so-called margin squeeze deterred new companies from
entering the market. Deutsche Telekom, which appealed two months
later, agreed to cut its fees in 2004.  
 Deutsche Telekom lost a first appeal of the fine two years
ago, when the EU’s second-highest court backed the commission’s
decision that the company had abused its dominant position by
charging competitors higher prices than the retail prices end-
users had to pay.  
 Spokespeople for Deutsche Telekom didn’t respond to calls
seeking comment.  
 The case is C-280/08 P Deutsche Telekom v Commission.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Litigation Departments  
 Lehman Liquidator Fees Top a Quarter-Billion Dollars  
 Alvarez & Marsal LLC, the liquidator of bankrupt Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., has collected $262.2 million in fees
over 18 months, topping a quarter-billion dollars for its work,
according to a regulatory filing.  
 Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP, the law firm for the
Lehman creditors’ committee, got $47.7 million through March 31.
Dennis Dunne, a lawyer from the firm, didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  
 The defunct investment bank also disclosed fees paid to the
law firms mounting suits against Barclays Plc, scheduled to go
on trial April 26 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan over
Lehman’s allegation that it made an $11 billion “windfall” on
its 2008 purchase of the North American Lehman brokerage.  
 Jones Day, Lehman’s special counsel for U.S. and Asian
litigation, made $20.5 million through March 31. Quinn Emanuel
Urquhart Oliver & Hedges LLP, special counsel to the creditors’
committee, made $6 million, according to the filing.  
 Jenner & Block LLP, the law firm headed by Lehman examiner
Anton Valukas, earned $48.4 million for more than a year’s work
producing a 2,200-page report on the bankruptcy that was the
subject of a hearing in Washington this week about flaws in
regulation of banks.  
 Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP of New York collected $164.8
million for acting as the investment bank’s lead bankruptcy law
firm.  
 Lehman, once the world’s fourth-biggest investment bank,
filed the biggest U.S. bankruptcy in September 2008 with assets
of $639 billion. It has said it will spend five years
liquidating to pay unsecured creditors as little as 14.7 cents
on the dollar.  
 The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest litigation department news, click here.  
 Court News  
 Delaware Judge Drops Lawyers, Challenges Business as Usual  
 When J. Travis Laster left private practice last fall for a
seat on the Delaware Chancery Court, the 40-year-old attorney
said he had found a “dream” job.  
 The five-member Wilmington-based Court of Chancery hears
cases that run from neighborhood property disputes to
stockholder challenges to the nation’s biggest corporate
takeovers. There are no juries, and because it’s a so-called
equity court, the judges can base decisions on fairness when the
law doesn’t directly address the issue at hand.  
 Laster’s dream job turned into a nightmare for some lawyers
who appear before him. Laster took the extraordinary step in
March of removing three law firms as lead counsel in a Revlon
Inc. shareholder suit. They lost the potentially lucrative
designation because he found they proposed settling the case
without adequately probing for corporate misdeeds.  
 “Their advocacy has been nonexistent,” Laster wrote of
the firms he replaced. “No one actually litigated anything.”  
 In the usually collegial confines of the Delaware courts,
where more than half of all Fortune 500 companies litigate their
disputes, the new judge may have voiced what others thought
about practices there, said John C. Coffee Jr., professor of
securities law at Columbia University in New York.  
 Laster didn’t return a call seeking comment.  
 The case is In Re: Revlon Inc. Shareholders Litigation,
CA4578, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 For more, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        