-- Uganda Says No Evidence Iran Seeking Nuclear Weapons as Ahmadinejad Visits
-- Fred Ojambo
-- 2010-04-23T14:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/uganda-says-no-evidence-iran-seeking-nuclear-weapons-as-ahmadinejad-visits.html

          
          
             Ugandan Foreign Minister Sam Kutesa
said the East African nation believes that every country has the
right to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and there is
no evidence that Iran wants to build atomic weapons.  
 “We believe in a nuclear-free world,” Kutesa said in an
interview today in the capital, Kampala. “Even those with
nuclear weapons should destroy them. We do not encourage anybody
to acquire nuclear weapons.”  
 Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who is currently on
a two-nation visit to Africa, traveled to Uganda today where he
was scheduled to hold talks with President Yoweri Museveni.  
 Iran is under three sets of United Nations sanctions for
refusing to scale back the nuclear program, which the U.S. and
several of its allies say may be aimed at building a weapon. The
U.S. is trying to rally support for a fourth round of UN
sanctions against Iran, which says its nuclear program is purely
civilian.  
 “There are consequences when a country does not live up to
its obligations,” U.S. Undersecretary of State for Political
Affairs William Burns told reporters in Cape Town today. “There
is strong international concern right now and I think the
Security Council will send a clear message. I do think we will
be able to include significant measures in a new resolution.”  
 Uganda is a non-permanent member of the UN Security
Council.  
 Among the issues to be discussed by the Ugandan and Iranian
government is closer cooperation on oil refining, the Ugandan
Foreign Ministry said in a statement earlier today ahead of
Ahmadinejad’s visit. It didn’t provide further details.  
 Yesterday, the Iranian leader visited Zimbabwe, where
President Robert Mugabe assured Ahmadinejad of his country’s
support for Iran’s nuclear program, the state-controlled Herald
newspaper reported. The two leaders also opened a tractor
assembly plant that is a joint venture between Zimbabwe’s state-
owned Industrial Development Corp. and the Iranian Tractor
Manufacturing Co.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        