-- Ukraine Seeks $20 Billion IMF Program to Finance Its Deficit, Tigipko Says
-- Halia Pavliva
-- 2010-04-23T15:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/ukraine-seeks-20-billion-imf-program-to-finance-its-deficit-tigipko-says.html

          
          
             Ukraine seeks to secure a $20
billion loan from the International Monetary Fund as early
as next month to help finance its budget deficit and cut
the cost of future borrowing abroad, Deputy Prime Minister
Serhiy Tigipko said in an interview in Washington.  
 “Having a program with the IMF will help us lower the
price of future Eurobonds, because such a program gives
investors more confidence,” Tigipko said. “It will also
help sustain economic growth.”  
 Output may grow between 5 percent and 6 percent this
year, compared with an earlier estimate of 3.7 percent,
Tigipko said. The acceleration will be triggered by higher
prices for Ukraine’s key exports such as metals and lower
fuel prices, including Russian gas, he said. The government
maintains its aim of keeping inflation below 10 percent.  
 Ukraine is in talks with undisclosed foreign banks
over syndicated loans as the country seeks to borrow $3
billion on foreign markets this year to cover a deficit
forecast at 6 percent of gross domestic product, he said.  
 “Syndicated loans are faster to arrange than bonds,
this is why will start with that,” he said. “We are in
talks already. There is a demand, banks are interested. All
we need is political stability and the will to reform the
economy.”  
 Tigipko said he is “concerned” about the level of
the central bank’s foreign currency and gold reserves and
expects half the IMF financing will go to replenish the
stockpile, with the rest being used to finance the budget
deficit. Ukrainian companies have to repay $20 billion of
foreign debts falling due this year and “must make every
effort” to reschedule them. That will help sustain the
level of the reserves, he said.  
 ‘Repay Everything’  
 The government has no plans to reschedule debt falling
due in 2010 and 2011, Tigipko said.  
 “We will repay everything,” he said.  
 Next year, Ukraine may need to borrow between $4
billion and $4.5 billion abroad, he said. Inflation is
expected at “about 9 percent” in 2011 and the deficit
won’t exceed 4.5 percent of gross domestic product. The
hryvnia may trade at about 8 per dollar, he said.  
 “There will be pressure on the hryvnia to strengthen
because exports are rising faster than imports,” Tigipko
said. “It would be good if it was to trade at between 7.85
to 8” per dollar.  
 Ukraine must stabilize its banking system and approve
the budget to gain a new loan from the IMF, he said.  
 The central bank is under pressure from the fund to
increase lending rates to cut inflation, Tigipko said,
adding that “higher rates wouldn’t help much because we
don’t have a mechanism of easy refinancing” by the central
bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        