-- Ukraine May Sell Eurobonds in June at Maximum Yield of 8%, Government Says
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-04-23T14:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/ukraine-may-sell-eurobonds-in-june-at-maximum-yield-of-8-government-says.html

          
          
             Ukraine may sell Eurobonds in the
middle of June, as a $40 billion gas-subsidy deal with Russia
improves investor sentiment toward the former Soviet republic’s
credit markets, Deputy Finance Minister Andriy Kravets said.  
 The Kiev-based government is mulling selling 10-year bonds
denominated in dollars, Kravets told reporters today. Ukraine
targets a yield below 8 percent, he said, adding his government
is currently in talks with banks regarding the sale.  
 Ukraine’s budget-saving deal with Russia will help push
down the country’s borrowing costs, according to Nomura Holdings
Inc. and UniCredit SpA. The government’s efforts to resurrect
the economy from last year’s 15 percent contraction are starting
to pay off and debt markets are taking note. Credit default
swaps on five-year debt have halved this year, while the yield
on the country’s 2016 dollar bond has lost almost 5 percentage
points in the same period.  
 “We are in active talks with many banks and are
considering many options,” Kravets said. “We are also
discussing loans or private placements.”  
 The economy grew an annual 5 percent in the first quarter,
the government estimates, helping the hryvnia gain 11 percent
since a September low.  
 Russia Deal  
 Russia on April 21 agreed to charge Ukraine 30 percent less
for its natural gas in an accord that will help reduce the
bailout-reliant country’s public deficit to 6 percent this year
from 8.8 percent in 2009. The deal, which cements Ukraine’s ties
with its neighbor to the east, enables the Kiev-based government
to resume its International Monetary Fund program and reassure
investors its finances are intact.  
 In exchange for Russia’s gas subsidies, Ukraine will let
the Moscow-based government keep its Black Sea Fleet base 25
years longer than the existing contract allows. President Viktor
Yanukovych said the total value of Russia’s support is $40
billion, with assistance amounting to $3 billion this year and
$4 billion in 2011.  
 The government of Prime Minister Mykola Azarov says it has
obtained a new $12 billion loan with the IMF running 2 1/2 years.
The program will replace the existing $16.4 billion agreement,
of which $10.6 billion has been paid out. The IMF hasn’t
confirmed the arrangement. Deputy Prime Minister Serhiy Tigipko
said in an interview in Washington today the IMF loan may be as
big as $20 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        