-- U.K.'s Tullow May Expand Cooperation in Africa With Total, Cnooc, Anadarko
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2010-04-23T11:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/tullow-may-boost-cooperation-in-africa-with-total-cnooc-after-uganda-deal.html

          
          
             Tullow Oil Plc, the U.K. explorer
with the most licenses in Africa, may use a tie-up with China
National Offshore Oil Corp. and Total SA in Uganda as a testing
ground for future exploration on the continent.  
 Tullow plans to work with Cnooc and Total to develop oil
fields in Uganda. At the same time, the London-based company may
extend cooperation with Anadarko Petroleum Corp. in East Africa,
Vice President for African business Tim O’Hanlon said.  
 “All the participants are really thoroughly excited”
about Uganda, O’Hanlon said yesterday in an interview in Paris.
“That combination, if it works well, you could easily imagine
seeing it popping up elsewhere.”  
 The U.K. explorer and its partners may need to invest at
least $10 billion in Uganda. O’Hanlon expects the Ugandan
government to approve a joint venture, in which each of the
partners will have a one-third stake, within weeks. The
partnership follows Tullow’s decision to buy assets from
Heritage Oil Plc for as much as $1.5 billion, derailing an
earlier bid from Eni SpA.  
 Anadarko expects to make more finds off the coast of Africa
as it explores in Mozambique and Kenya, Frank Patterson, vice
president of international exploration, said in March.  
 “Anadarko is a great partner in West Africa,” O’Hanlon
said. “And what are they doing in East Africa is very
courageous and we take our hat off, because people who take
those type of risks deserve a bonanza.”  
 Tullow plans to continue exploration in Tanzania after the
Likonde-1 well found hydrocarbons and had to be plugged because
of high gas pressure, the company said April 1.  
 “We will evaluate the data, which is positive,” O’Hanlon
said. “It shows that there is oil migrating in that area. It’s
not a dry hole.”  
 In the Ivory Coast, Tullow will drill more wells to search
for oil. Anadarko and Tullow found water in the South Grand
Lahou prospect in the nation’s CI-105 block last year.  
 “We are still at the early stages,” O’Hanlon said. “The
Ivory Coast has a huge potential.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        