-- Vietnam's Inflation Rate Slows for First Time Since August on Food Prices
-- Jason Folkmanis
-- 2010-04-23T07:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/vietnam-s-inflation-rate-slows-for-first-time-since-august-on-food-prices.html

          
          
             Vietnam’s inflation rate fell for
the first time since August as food prices eased and higher
interest rates cut into borrowing.  
 Consumer prices climbed 9.23 percent in April from a year
earlier, down from 9.46 percent in March, according to figures
released today by the General Statistics Office in Hanoi.
Prices rose 0.14 percent in April from March, the lowest figure
since a decline in monthly inflation in March 2009.  
 “Food prices, which led the earlier charge up the
inflation slope, are now commanding the tentative descent
downhill as well,” wrote Wellian Wiranto, a Singapore-based
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “The movement of food prices
has a huge bearing on the overall consumer price index.”  
 Moves to free banks to set lending rates by removing a
link with the central bank benchmark rate initially raised
borrowing costs, and credit growth has slowed, amounting to a
“very clear” tightening of monetary policy, said Martin Rama,
lead Vietnam economist for the World Bank.  
 “Credit growth in the first quarter was one of the lowest
on record,” Rama said before today’s report was published.  
 Overall food prices rose 9.56 percent in April from a year
earlier, slower than March’s 10.73 percent. From a month
earlier, food prices dropped 0.63 percent, with the sub-
category including rice sliding 1.91 percent.  
 “Going forward, food supply may stay abundant for a few
more months, keeping the overall inflation at bay,” wrote
HSBC’s Wiranto.  
 Moody’s, Fitch  
 Moody’s Investors Service said last month that Vietnam had
yet to quell inflationary expectations, and Fitch Ratings cited
the risk of a further build-up in price pressures when it put
the country’s debt rating on negative watch.  
 The floating of lending rates led to an increase in
borrowing costs to between 15 percent and 17 percent from 12
percent previously, according to Paul Gruenwald, chief Asia
economist for Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  
 “This has been equivalent to a tightening of monetary and
credit policy,” Singapore-based Gruenwald said. “Our call is
for the State Bank of Vietnam to pause and assess.”  
 While Vietnam has among the highest inflation rates in
Asia, recent growth figures suggest that the current pace of
economic expansion is unlikely to cause further acceleration in
price increases, he said. Vietnam’s economy grew 5.8 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier.  
 “Inflation momentum has peaked,” said Gruenwald.  
 Lending Rates  
 Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung asked state-
owned banks to cut lending rates to between 12 percent and 13
percent, Thoi Bao Ngan Hang newspaper reported this week, after
the cost of credit had increased this year to as much as 20
percent, according to Vietnam Property Fund Ltd.  
 Vietnam’s central bank, which has held its base rate at 8
percent since December, has over the past two months eliminated
maximum lending rates that were linked to the benchmark.  
 “The base rate is not very relevant anymore, with the
removal of the lending caps,” said Rama. “Our advice would be
for the government to let the adjustment to market-driven
interest rates work for some time, though we understand the
government’s concern that market rates have overshot.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        