-- Volvo Profit Beats Estimates on Trucks Demand
-- Ola Kinnander
-- 2010-04-23T12:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/volvo-reports-first-quarter-profit-of-231-million-analysts-forecast-loss.html

          
          
             Volvo AB, the world’s second-
largest truckmaker, reported its first profit in more than a
year, beating analysts’ estimates and sending the stock as much
as 14 percent higher in Stockholm.  
 First-quarter net income was 1.68 billion kronor ($233
million), or 0.83 krona a share, compared with a loss of 4.22
billion kronor, or 2.09 kronor, a year earlier, the Gothenburg,
Sweden-based company said today in a statement. Analysts had
projected a loss of 8 million kronor, according to the average
of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Trucks and construction equipment, the two largest
divisions, which accounted for 81 percent of Volvo’s revenue,
both returned to an operating profit. Volvo lowered costs by
cutting thousands of jobs after the financial crisis. Daimler
AG, the world’s largest truckmaker, raised the forecast for its
trucks division this week.  
 “It’s a hallelujah moment for those who are positive on
Volvo,” Niclas Hoglund, a Stockholm-based analyst at Swedbank
Markets who recommends investors buy the shares, said in a phone
interview. “It’s a very good result and order intake.”  
 Volvo rose as much as 11.60 kronor to 93.35 kronor, the
steepest increase in 14 months. It traded at 91.05 kronor as of
2:21 p.m. in Stockholm, an 11 percent advance, making it the
biggest gainer in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index and valuing the
company at 192 billion kronor.  
 Revenue rose 4.4 percent to 58.6 billion kronor, exceeding
analysts’ 55.6 billion-krona estimate. Construction-equipment
sales advanced 36 percent to 11.1 billion kronor.  
 Truck Orders  
 Orders for trucks more than doubled in the quarter to
43,936 vehicles from 20,183 a year earlier, Volvo said. The
increase shows that sales volumes will rise, Hoglund said.  
 Volvo maintained its forecast that the market for heavy
trucks will grow 10 percent in Europe this year and 20 percent
to 30 percent in North America.  
 “They are giving hints the good trend will continue but it
may be too early for them to lift the estimates,” Sydbank A/S
analyst Morten Imsgard in Aabenraa, Denmark, who rates Volvo’s
shares at “overweight,” said by telephone.  
 Volvo’s report “confirms my view that truckmakers will be
hugely more efficient this year when we see demand coming
back,” Imsgard said. “Sales are not going to come back to pre-
crisis levels for at least a couple of years, but they don’t
need to. The companies have streamlined their business so much
they can be a lot more effective.”  
 Cost Cuts Finished  
 Volvo said it has now completed an effort that started
after the financial crisis to cut costs by 21 billion kronor,
half of which would be “structural,” or permanent reductions.
It closed factories and reduced its workforce, including
consultants, by about 20,000 people, Chief Executive Officer
Leif Johansson said at a press conference in Stockholm. Volvo
had 90,405 employees and 7,464 temporary workers and consultants
at the end of March.  
 Volvo hired 400 workers in the first quarter and is likely
to add more as volumes increase, Johansson said.  
 Last week’s eruption of the Icelandic volcano, whose ash
cloud disrupted international air traffic, has caused delays to
“some critical components” at Volvo, he said. “There are
risks here” if delays continue, he said without elaborating.  
 Volvo’s construction-equipment division is now among the
top four competitors in China, division president Olof Persson
said in an interview after the press conference. Volvo’s Asian
construction-equipment sales more than doubled to 5.25 billion
kronor.  
 The unit has developed a “more mature” distribution system
in Asia over the last year-and-a-half, helping it to boost
sales, Persson said.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Volvo FH16 truck is seen in this handout photograph provided to the media on Feb. 5, 2010. Source: Volvo via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
