-- Warner Says Chance of Financial Plan in Senate Are Favorable (Transcript)
-- 
-- 2010-04-23T16:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/warner-says-chance-of-financial-plan-in-senate-are-favorable-transcript-.html

          
          
             U.S. Senator Mark Warner, in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With Al
Hunt” that airs this weekend, said there’s a “north of 80
percent” chance that senators will reach a bipartisan
compromise on a financial overhaul bill.  
 (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP can’t
guarantee its accuracy.)  
 AL HUNT: And we begin the program with one of the key
negotiators of financial regulation, Senator Mark Warner of
Virginia. Senator, thank you for being with us.  
 SENATOR MARK WARNER: Al, thanks for having me.  
 HUNT: There is a disconnect between the fiery rhetoric on
the -- on this financial regulatory bill and talks of a deal.
When do you think the Senate will actually pass a measure, and
how many Republicans will vote for it?  
 WARNER: Well, this coming Monday we’re going to have a --
kind of a first test vote --  
 HUNT: Right.  
 WARNER: To see if we can proceed to the bill. You know, I’m
hopeful that we may have a deal even before that first vote. I
think at the end of the day this is -- it’s awful hard, eighteen
months after the meltdown, not to be in favor of financial
reform. So I think there’s still a high possibility --
probability -- I’d say north of 80 percent -- that we get a
bipartisan deal.  
 HUNT: And with a number of Republicans [inaudible].  
 WARNER: A number, and I don’t -- you know, I don’t think
this will be one of those, you know, one, two, or three --  
 HUNT: Right.  
 WARNER: I think it will either be 25 or, you know, we’ll be
scraping at the edges again in a partisanship.  
 HUNT: Right. You strongly disagree with the Republican
assertion that the resolution fund you and Senator Corker
crafted would lead to more bailouts.  
 WARNER: Right.  
 HUNT: But it’s become a controversy. Could you live with a
bill that instead has an industry pay-in after any resolution or
dissolution?  
 WARNER: Sure, I could. I mean, matter of fact, Senator
Corker and I originally said, “Let’s just put up an even
smaller amount” -- $25 billion rather than Senator Dodd moved
to $50. Remember, what we’ve said is, “We want to make sure
that these firms, if they go to resolution” --  
 HUNT: Right.  
 WARNER: “That they’re going to go out of business.” But
to make sure they go out of business in an orderly way where
they don’t disrupt the whole system, you got to keep the lights
on, for a while.  
 HUNT: So wouldn’t the after effect -- wouldn’t that be the
--  
 WARNER: Well, you could --  
 HUNT: Give Republicans the --  
 WARNER: Well, what -- but what our concern was -- and we
actually thought about this -- if we went to zero --  
 HUNT: Right.  
 WARNER: And had it funded afterwards, you’d be accused:
“Well you were -- the Treasury could borrow money, but you’d
potentially have taxpayer exposure.” Even when we put together
the prefunded opportunity, which is prefunded by the industry --  
 HUNT: Right.  
 WARNER: There still would be a recoupment from those firms
that actually benefited the most from the resolution after the
fact.  
 HUNT: Right.  
 WARNER: So pre- or post- is not really that important at
the end of the day as long as you make sure that whatever
dollars you use will ultimately pay -- be paid for by the
industry and that those funds will only be used as debtor-in-
possession financing, top-of-the-food-chain in terms of the
capital structure --  
 HUNT: Right.  
 WARNER: And be used simply to put the firm out of business.  
 HUNT: Community banks. A number say that they want the
Federal Reserve rather than the FDIC to be their overseer; which
way is it going to go?  
 WARNER: [laughs] I have to tell you, this is one where both
Senator Dodd and I started with maybe the right, in-a-perfect-
world solution. Let’s go back to a single banking regulator. Why
have different regulators based upon charter?  Well we’ve been
chopped away. We gave the state banks back to the FDIC, national
banks to the OCC, the larger institutions to the Fed. Now, some
of the smaller banks that have been regulated by the Fed in the
past will say, “No, we want to keep the Fed.” End of the day -
-  
 HUNT: So what will we end up doing?  
 WARNER: Is it something you’re going to fall on your sword
on? Probably not.  
 HUNT: Right.  
 WARNER: But the notion of regulatory arbitrage that did
take place in the last crisis: the more we can eliminate that,
the better.  
 HUNT: Right. Let me ask you about derivatives. The Senate
Agriculture Committee, as you know --  
 WARNER: Right.  
 HUNT: Has adopted a pretty tough provision --  
 WARNER: Right.  
 HUNT: Requiring banks to shed their swaps desks. Do you
support this, and will it pass the Senate?  
 WARNER: Well, listen, there’s two things on derivatives
we’ve got to look at.  
 HUNT: Right.  
 WARNER: One is, we all agree that if you’re a normal
industrial company or manufacturing company, you got to be able
to use these derivatives to appropriately hedge. The question is
how do you draw an exemption that’s not abused.  And candidly
the agriculture bill doesn’t do as well, I think, as the Dodd
bill on that. The other is how do we make sure there’s more
transparency to all these transactions. And Senate Ag has said,
“Let’s require a bank to either shed these -- this whole
activity and to force a lot onto the exchange.” The problem is,
it’s hard to get all of these contracts and standardize --  
 HUNT: Can you compromise the Dodd and --  
 WARNER: I think there’s -- yeah, I think there’s a way to
get to a middle ground. What I’ve been looking at is, is there a
way to say to the industry, “Okay, whether it’s an end-user
exemption you say that’s only to be small or we can get most of
these onto an exchange, let’s take the industry at their word.”
And then if we end up writing the best rules possible and then
we see 90 percent are using the exemption, you’d have some kind
of trip wire that might then say, “The bank has to shed this
activity if it exceeds a certain percentage using this exemption
or not getting cleared or not being put on an exchange.” So try
to not, again, presuppose where you’re going to end up. Put the
best rule in place, but realize the chances are Wall Street’s
going to figure out a way around the rule and have some kind of
trip wire.  
 HUNT: Let me ask you about Goldman Sachs.  
 WARNER: Sure.  
 HUNT: Is the company being unfairly vilified or
legitimately scrutinized?  
 WARNER: You know, Al, I don’t know the answer to that. I
think the SEC has gone about their investigation. I sure as heck
didn’t know about any investigation ahead of the fact.  
 HUNT: You don’t think it’s politically motivated?  
 WARNER: I don’t. I think that they -- you know, I think
these things have been -- usually are worked on for a long
period of time.  
 HUNT: Right.  
 WARNER: I don’t think that, you know, there’s any single
institution that’s been -- there’s no clean hands across the
board here, but I think we ought to play that out. I don’t think
we ought to take out too much populist angst on any particular
institution.  
 HUNT: You know, you’re reading about people giving back
Goldman money now. Obama got over -- almost a million dollars
last time; I think you’ve gotten about $17,000 last three
cycles. Should politicians give back the money [inaudible]?  
 WARNER: Well listen, I think that -- you know, I’ve tried,
and whenever I’ve had some dollars come in from financial
institutions during this period I’ve tried to give it back
because I just --  
 HUNT: Right.  
 WARNER: You know, during the period when you’re trying to
write the rules, you’ve got to be extra careful. But I think in
the case of Goldman, we ought to let this -- the investigation
with the SEC play itself out.  
 HUNT: You’re going to be in Virginia this weekend with
constituents, talking about -- and you’re going to be asked
about this bill. What are you going to tell them are the -- say
the two things that will make it less likely there’ll be a
crisis again, if this bill were to pass?  
 WARNER: What we’re saying is -- we want to prevent a
crisis. So we’re saying to these large institutions, “We’re
going to require you to have more capital reserves. We’re not
going to allow you to off-balance-sheet leverage up your -- to
levels that have been unprecedented. We’re going to require a
whole new series of capital that if you get in trouble will
convert from debt to equity, and we’re going to ask you -- if
you’re a big institution, we’re going to demand that you show
how you can unwind yourself through normal bankruptcy process.”  
 WARNER: And if you can’t get the regulator to approve that,
you know, we’re not going to let you get that big. So we’re
going to put all these, again, speed bumps in the way of
institutions getting too big. And then if you do get in trouble,
you’re going out of business. We’re going to make sure that
never again, will there be an institution that’s too big to
fail. If you get into resolution, you’re going out of business;
you’re going to get wiped out; your shareholders are going to
get wiped out; the management team’s going to get gotten rid
of. And I think, you know, what we want to try to do is put the
most barriers possible but at the same time realize the capital
markets have got to work.  
 HUNT: And do you think that the president in recent days
has struck the right tone, or has he gone too far?  
 WARNER: Well, listen, it’s easy -- the one thing --
guaranteed applause line you can get, whether you’re talking to
a Teabagger crowd or a bunch of liberal bloggers, is, you know,
bashing Wall Street.  
 HUNT: Right.  
 WARNER: There’s been some stuff that’s gone on that
shouldn’t happen again, but I think kind of this broad brush, ad
hominem attack against everybody in the finance industry doesn’t
make any sense. I do wish the financial industry would, you
know, occasionally look themselves in the mirror a little bit
and say -- they got to understand that even though Wall Street’s
back if you got -- even in my state -- 7.5 percent unemployment
there’s a lot of folks that rightfully are kind of scratching
their heads, saying this doesn’t seem right in their gut.  
 HUNT: Senator Warner, you’re going to have a busy week next
week. Thank you so much for being with us.  
 ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  
 THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100 PERCENT ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS
PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY
KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND
PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE.
BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO
LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS,
PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION
NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A
SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR (END)
COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT
NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  
 #<610771.1204164.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Apr/23/2010 16:17 GMT
  
          
          


  


        