-- Senate Finance Deal Given 80%-Plus Chance by Warner
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-04-23T15:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/warner-says-north-of-80-chance-of-agreement-on-senate-financial-plan.html

          
          
             U.S. Senator Mark Warner said
there’s a “north of 80 percent” chance that lawmakers will
reach a bipartisan compromise on a financial overhaul bill that
faces a test vote in the Senate next week.  
 Republican and Democratic negotiators will produce a deal
that will ultimately get the support of “a number” of
Republicans, Warner, a member of the Senate Banking Committee,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with Al Hunt” being broadcast this weekend.  
 “It’s awful hard, 18 months after the meltdown, not to be
in favor of financial reform,” said Warner, a Virginia
Democrat. “There’s still a high possibility -- probability --
I’d say north of 80 percent -- that we get a bipartisan deal.”  
 Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd, a
Connecticut Democrat, is negotiating with Alabama Senator
Richard Shelby, the banking panel’s top Republican, to
incorporate Republican ideas into Dodd’s legislation, which is
scheduled for a procedural vote on April 26.  
 Republicans oppose the current version of the measure,
which is based on a proposal by President Barack Obama and is
aimed at preventing a repeat of the $700 billion in taxpayer-
funded aid extended to companies including Bank of America Corp.
and Citigroup Inc. as a result of the 2008 financial crisis.  
 Two of the thorniest issues still to be worked out
legislatively are derivatives oversight and new government
powers to liquidate failed financial firms in an orderly way.  
 Exemption  
 The derivatives measure approved this week by the Senate
Agriculture Committee “doesn’t do as well” as the Dodd bill at
creating an exemption “that’s not abused” to let corporate
end-users trade outside of regulated exchanges, Warner said.
End-users are businesses such as oil companies and airlines that
use derivatives to hedge operational risks.  
 “There’s a way to get to a middle ground,” he said.  
 Also, Republicans have raised objections to a provision in
the Dodd bill that would set up a $50 billion industry-supported
fund to cover the cost of liquidation, arguing it would set up a
permanent bailout of Wall Street banks. Democrats say the
reserve fund would be paid for by the industry and is a better
alternative to having taxpayers cover the cost after a company
collapses.  
 Warner, who crafted the reserve-fund language with Senator
Bob Corker, a Tennessee Republican, said he didn’t agree that
the fund would lead to more bailouts. Even so, he said he is
willing to support having the financial industry instead pay for
the dissolution of a firm after it collapses.  
 Paid by Industry  
 “So pre- or post- is not really that important at the end
of the day as long as you make sure that whatever dollars you
use will ultimately be paid for by the industry,” said Warner,
55.  
 One solution could be setting up a pre-funded trust in
which each bank’s share is reflected as an asset on its balance
sheet, Warner said in an interview later. “They have a self-
interest to make sure resolution isn’t over-used,” he said.  
 During the “Political Capital” interview, Warner
expressed skepticism that a provision taking away the Federal
Reserve’s
power to oversee small banks would remain in the Dodd bill.  
 “Some of the smaller banks that have been regulated by the
Fed in the past will say ‘no, we want to keep the Fed,’” Warner
said. “Is it something you’re going to fall on your sword on?
Probably not.”  
 Warner said he didn’t think the timing of the government’s
lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was politically
motivated. Some Republicans have said the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s decision to file the case on April 16 was
intended to stoke public anger at Wall Street before the Senate
debate on the Dodd bill.  
 Federal cases “usually are worked on for a long period of
time,” Warner said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Christopher "Chris" Dodd, a Democrat from Connecticut and chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, speaks during a news conference in Washington D.C., on March 15, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Senator Mark Warner  
                       
                         
                           Jay Mallin/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. Senator Mark Warner,  a Democrat from Virginia, listens during a television interview in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. Senator Mark Warner,  a Democrat from Virginia, listens during a television interview in Washington. Photographer: Jay Mallin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia, listens during an editorial board meeting in Washington. Photographer: Jay Mallin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
