-- WellCare Director Resigns, Says Board Needs Greater Accounting Oversight
-- Pat Wechsler
-- 2010-04-23T23:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/wellcare-director-herzlinger-resigns-says-board-didn-t-do-job-properly-.html

          
          
             Harvard Business School professor
Regina Herzlinger said she was forced off the board of WellCare
Health Plans Inc., an insurer specializing in Medicare and
Medicaid benefits, by directors acting against shareholders’
interests.  
 Herzlinger said the insurer faces “serious challenges”
and has underperformed its competitors. Two board panels chose
not to nominate her again in light of her “vigorous and
uncompromising pursuit” of the shareholders’ interests, she
said in a resignation letter filed today by WellCare. The
insurer called Herzlinger’s charges a “mischaracterization of
facts and motive” in its filing.  
 WellCare, based in Tampa, Florida, settled U.S. and Florida
claims last year that it had kept money owed to the government
and used it to inflate earnings. Herzlinger, a director since
2003, said the board needs members with extensive experience in
health insurance accounting to ensure continued proper
oversight.  
 “I have been committed to remaining on WellCare’s board to
help address these and other challenges,” she said in her
letter.  
 WellCare insured 2.32 million people as of Dec. 31,
according to its Feb. 18 earnings statement. That included 1.35
million in Medicaid programs for the low-income and 972,000 more
in Medicare plans for the elderly and disabled.  
 Internal Audit  
 Herzlinger, in her resignation letter, said WellCare’s
internal auditor found the company overbilled the state of
Illinois’ Medicaid program by $1 million, and said the state of
Georgia fined the insurer $610,000 last year for not properly
documenting care. “The identification of these problems
underscores the continuing issues in our accounting and finance
functions and difficulties in remediating them,” she wrote.  
 WellCare has been working with a search firm to find new
independent directors for the board to “bring fresh eyes and a
fresh perspective,” spokeswoman Amy Knapp said today in a
telephone interview. Herzlinger has been on the board since 2003
and was chair of the audit committee since it was started in
2004, Knapp said.  
 The company has added four new directors since March 2009,
including Glenn Steele, a doctor and chief executive officer of
Geisinger Health System, based in Danville, Pennsylvania, Knapp
said.  
 WellCare fell 42 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $30.53 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company’s
shares have more than doubled in the past 12 months.  
 Little Harm  
 The accounting issues may not harm the company if they
don’t lead to official investigations, said Sarah James, a
Wedbush Securities insurance analyst in Los Angeles. Because of
the difficulty predicting how much care Medicaid patients may
need in a given year, it’s not uncommon for insurers to have to
return some money to states, she said.  
 James said she has a “sell” rating on WellCare, primarily
because the company hasn’t been open enough about its strategy
or where and how it expects to grow.  “For a turnaround,
typically you like to see as much information as possible,” she
said.  
 Herzlinger didn’t return a call for further comment. She
was the first woman to be tenured at Harvard Business School.
She is known for research in health care, including her early
predictions of the unraveling of managed care and the rise of
consumer-driven health care, a term which she coined.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        