-- Wipro Fourth-Quarter Profit Climbs 21% as Global Software Demand Recovers
-- Jay Shankar
-- 2010-04-23T10:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/wipro-fourth-quarter-net-income-climbs-21-as-software-demand-increases.html

          
          
             Wipro Ltd. reported fourth-quarter
profit rose 21 percent as global demand for computer services
sold by India’s third-largest software provider increased.  
 Net income climbed to 12.1 billion rupees ($271.6 million)
in the three months ended March 31, from 10 billion rupees a
year earlier, the Bangalore-based company said today. Profit was
projected at 12 billion rupees, according to the average of 36
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Wipro joins industry leader Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.
in signaling stronger demand for India’s software services as
companies revive technology spending after the worst economic
crisis since World War II. Billionaire Chairman Azim Premji said
the business environment was returning to pre-crisis levels.  
 “We are expecting earnings to grow by 16 percent in the
current year because of volume growth and better utilization of
employees,” said Jigar Shah, head of research at Kim Eng
Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai. Shah, who rates the stock
“buy,” said he was neutral on Wipro’s plan to give investors
two free shares for every three held. “It’s nice for sentiment,
but doesn’t do anything for the balance sheet.”  
 Wipro fell 1.8 percent to close at 691.90 rupees in Mumbai
trading, after earlier climbing as much as 3.6 percent. The
benchmark Sensitive Index gained 0.7 percent.  
 Currency Impact  
 The company’s fourth-quarter sales climbed 8.2 percent to
69.8 billion rupees, lagging the 71.1 billion-rupee average of
analysts’ estimates.  
 The Indian currency’s gains against the dollar, which
crimped profit margins last quarter, is a matter of concern,
Chief Financial Officer Suresh Senapaty said.  
 “In the medium to long-term, if the rupee appreciates
exports will be impacted,” he said.  
 India’s rupee has strengthened more than 12 percent
against the dollar in the past year and may climb to 43.25
versus the U.S. currency by March 2011, according to the median
estimate of 21 economists’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Revenue at Wipro’s IT-services business was $1.17 billion,
compared with its January forecast of as much as $1.18 billion.
Wipro projects sales at the technology business will range from
$1.19 billion to $1.22 billion this quarter.  
 Wipro provides computer services such as designing and
building software programs, product-engineering and back-office
support to BP Plc, William Morrison Supermarkets Plc, Pitney
Bowes Inc. and other customers. The company, which also makes
soaps, light bulbs and hydraulic equipment, added 5,325 jobs at
its technology unit last quarter to end the period with a total
of 108,071 employees, according to a statement on its Web site.  
 ‘More Favorable Light’  
 “Managements now look at outsourcing in a more favorable
light. It’s a lesson taken away from the crisis,” Tarun
Sisodia, an analyst at Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd. in
Mumbai, said before the results were announced. “Budgets that
had been slashed before are coming back on line, so the total
outsourcing done this year is going to be greater.”  
 Second-ranked Infosys Technologies Ltd. last week projected
annual revenue may grow at the fastest pace in three years, and
Oracle Corp. and Adobe Systems Inc. last month forecast a pickup
in sales, fresh evidence that companies in the U.S. have resumed
spending on technology.  
 India’s technology vendors will benefit from increased
orders as a result of new licensed software sales as companies
hire them to customize the applications, said Andrew Bartels, an
analyst at Forrester Research Inc.  
 Worldwide information and communication technology
spending, which includes computer and network equipment
purchases, will grow 7.7 percent this year from an estimated
$1.46 trillion in 2009, according to Forrester. Spending in the
U.S. will outpace gross domestic product growth as companies
increase discretionary spending to make up for orders delayed
during last year’s recession, Bartels wrote on April 8.  
 ‘Megadeals’  
 Wipro, which added 27 new clients last quarter, won several
orders in the period, including a seven-year outsourcing project
for The Main Street America Group, a Jacksonville, Florida-based
insurance company. The software provider signed a multiyear
application support services agreement with British American
Tobacco Plc in January and also got a contract from Best Buy Co.  
 “Indian IT companies have entered an era of megadeals,”
Sisodia said. “In 2009, we tracked a total $8 billion in deals
awarded to Indian companies, spread across a hundred-odd deals.
These are the kinds of deals you wouldn’t have seen earlier, you
just wouldn’t have visualized Indian companies in that space.”  
 “Large deals are very much on the table,” Premji said.
The opportunities are in the U.S., India and Europe, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        