-- Yanzhou Coal's Annual Profit Falls as Demand Slumps, Coal Prices Drop
-- John Duce
-- 2010-04-23T15:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/yanzhou-coal-s-annual-profit-falls-as-demand-slumps-coal-prices-drop.html

          
          
             Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., the
Chinese energy company that paid more than $3 billion for
Australia’s Felix Resources Ltd., posted a drop in profit last
year after demand slumped.  
 Net income fell to 4.12 billion yuan ($603 million), or
0.84 yuan a share, from 6.5 billion yuan , or 1.32 yuan a share
the previous year, Yanzhou said in a statement to the Hong Kong
stock exchange today. That compares with a median estimate of
4.2 billion yuan in a Bloomberg survey of seven analysts.
Revenue dropped to 19.9 billion yuan from 24.4 billion yuan.  
 Coal prices fell in 2009 as China’s economy slowed because
of the global recession, eroding demand. As much as 70 percent
of Yanzhou’s coal was sold on the spot market last year, with
prices down an average 15 percent compared with 2008, according
to Martin Wang, an energy analyst at Guotai Junan Securities in
Hong Kong.  
 Profit will likely rise to 6 billion yuan this year,
according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts, as China’s economic
recovery gathers pace and Yanzhou’s Australian assets boost
production.  
 “Yanzhou suffered because of the fall in spot prices, but
the prospects for the company are much more positive this
year,” said Anna Yu, an energy analyst at Taifook Securities
Group Ltd. in Hong Kong.  
 Shares Surge  
 First quarter net income more than doubled to 2.1 billion
yuan, according to a separate statement to the Hong Kong stock
exchange today. Operating income rose 59 percent to 7 billion
yuan in the first three months, the statement said.  
 The shares more than doubled in Hong Kong trading in the
past 12 months, outstripping a 43 percent gain by the benchmark
Hang Seng index in the same period.  
 Yanzhou, China’s fourth-biggest coal producer, won the
approval of Australia’s government for its A$3.5 billion ($3.2
billion) takeover of Felix Resources last year after agreeing to
sell shares and base senior executives in the country.  
 The coal supplier is seeking investment opportunities in
countries including the U.S., Canada and Australia, General
Manager Li Weimin said this month. The company’s output will
rise by a third in 2010 after completing the purchase of Felix
Resources, he said then.  
 “Benefitting from the recovery of the macro economy,
demand for coal in 2010 will gradually increase,” today’s
annual results statement said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        