-- Yara Expects to Find `Interesting' Fertilizer Assets in India in 3-5 Years
-- Meera Bhatia
-- 2010-04-23T12:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/yara-expects-to-find-interesting-indian-fertilizer-assets-chief-says.html

          
          
             Yara International ASA, the largest
publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker, expects to find
“interesting assets” in India within three to five years,
Chief Executive Officer Joergen Ole Haslestad said.  
 India, the biggest potash importer, ended price controls in
February, allowing companies to set rates for fertilizers other
than urea to ease the burden on the state of rising subsidies.
Agriculture accounts for as much as a fifth of the economy.  
 “There are things happening in India,” Haslestad said in
an interview today, after presenting the company’s first-quarter
results. “I wouldn’t say that we are going into India and
buying something tomorrow. It will be an area where I do believe
we see interesting assets coming up in the years to come.”  
 India’s government fixes the price at which fertilizer is
sold to farmers, pays companies the difference between the costs
and selling price and guarantees a post-tax return. The average
subsidy on a ton of urea makes up about three-quarters of the
total cost, according to the fertilizers ministry.  
 The government’s share of the subsidy on nutrients like
nitrogen, phosphorus, potash and sulfur, was fixed as of April
1, and farm gate rates will fluctuate with global levels,
Information and Broadcasting Minister Ambika Soni said Feb. 19.  
 “India is opening up for NPK,” or nitrogen, phosphorus
and potassium fertilizers, Haslestad said. “The new subsidy
scheme is paving the way for other nutrients.”  
 Yara, based in Oslo, currently sells 10,000 metric tons of
speciality fertilizer to India a year, making its activity in
the country “marginal,” Yara spokesman Asle Skredderberget
wrote in an e-mailed response to questions today.  
 Biggest Importer  
 India was the biggest potash importer last year, according
to Fertecon, a Tunbridge Wells, England-based consultant. The
country imported 5.09 million tons, while Brazil bought 3.57
million tons and China purchased 1.59 million tons.  
 Yara is looking at assets in North America, Latin America,
Eastern Europe and there are “some pockets” of Western Europe
“where we could potentially buy something, but that is a bit
challenging because we do have such a high market share,”
Haslestad said. The management will use “financial discipline”
as it takes part in industry consolidation, he said.  
 The company on March 12 decided against raising an offer
for U.S.-based Terra Industries Inc. after CF Industries
Holdings Inc. outbid Yara with a $4.71 billion proposal.  
 Yara fell to a five-month low in Oslo trading today after
reporting first-quarter sales that missed analyst expectations.  
 The shares slid as much as 5.5 percent to the lowest since
Nov. 20 after revenue dropped 14 percent to 14.7 billion kroner
($2.49 billion), missing the 16.9 billion-krone average of 21
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Yara was trading down 8.6
kroner, or 3.7 percent, at 222.5 kroner by 2 p.m. in Oslo.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        