-- Yara Expects to Find `Interesting' Fertilizer Assets in India in 3-5 Years
-- Meera Bhatia
-- 2010-04-23T16:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/yara-profit-jumps-71-as-fertilizer-production-increases-to-full-capacity.html

          
          
             Yara International ASA, the largest
publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker, fell in Oslo after
first-quarter sales missed analyst expectations.  
 Yara, based in the city, slid 3.3 percent after revenue
dropped 14 percent to 14.7 billion kroner ($2.49 billion),
missing the 16.9 billion-krone average of 21 estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 The company sees a “clear risk” that demand for nitrogen,
phosphorus and potassium fertilizers, known as NPK, may fail to
fully recover this season in Europe because of higher potash
prices, a late spring, weaker grain prices and a weaker euro, it
said in a statement today. Yara is prepared to extend summer
shutdowns at NPK plants to avoid an inventory build-up.  
 “The outlook is on the soft side and it’s a concern that
sales are so much weaker than expected,” Per Haagensen, an
analyst at Fondsfinans ASA in Oslo, said by phone. “They are
giving a warning about NPK volumes in the second and third
quarter and their observation of prices is not very bullish.”
Haagensen said he would review his “neutral” rating on the
stock and he expects market estimates to decline.  
 Yara dropped 7.50 kroner to 223.60 kroner in Oslo trading.  
 Net income rose 71 percent to 1.52 billion kroner, the
company said, beating the 1.49 billion-krone average of 15
analyst estimates. One-off gains totaled 903 million kroner,
including a net 666 million kroner from the break fee paid to
Yara after Terra Industries Inc. canceled a merger agreement.  
 Growth Ambitions  
 Yara said it’s still “firm” in its growth ambitions after
losing out to CF Industries Holdings Inc. in its bid for Terra.  
 “As demonstrated by our decision to not participate in a
Terra bidding war, strict focus on financial discipline and
attractive valuation remain at the core of Yara’s growth,”
Chief Executive Officer Joergen Ole Haslestad said. CF offered
to buy Terra for about $4.7 billion, topping Yara’s bid.  
 Energy costs in the second quarter will rise by about 200
million kroner from a year earlier. European energy costs for
the third quarter will be 150 million kroner higher, Yara said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at   mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        