-- Lyondell Allowed by Judge to Settle $5.5 Billion in Environmental Claims
-- Don Jeffrey
-- 2010-04-23T19:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/lyondell-allowed-by-judge-to-settle-5-5-billion-in-environmental-claims.html

          
          
             Lyondell Chemical Co. won a judge’s
permission to settle more than $5.5 billion in environmental-
damage claims with U.S. regulators, leaving other companies,
insurers and taxpayers to cover any shortfall.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber approved the settlement
today in Manhattan at a hearing where the chemical maker also
will seek approval of its Chapter 11 reorganization plan.
Lyondell plans to exit court protection by April 30 with $2
billion in cash and access to $1.75 billion in revolving credit,
according to court documents.  
 The settlement puts $108.4 million into a trust to pay for
cleanup costs at various properties. Another $61.6 million will
go to U.S. and California government agencies. The Environmental
Protection Agency also will get a $1.18 billion unsecured claim
in Lyondell’s bankruptcy.  
 “That the government settled here is understandable,”
said Gerber, who called the agreement fair to Lyondell, the
government and the public. “Issues as to the interplay of
environmental and bankruptcy law are among the thorniest on the
litigation map.”  
 The EPA said in court documents that Lyondell owed at least
$5.5 billion to clean up hazardous waste, in addition to other
sites where it would owe an unknown amount. Without a
settlement, the company would have been forced to liquidate,
Lyondell spokesman David Harpole said.  
 ‘Fair and Equitable’  
 “We are gratified that the court has approved this
settlement agreement,” Harpole said today in a statement. “It
provides a fair and equitable resolution of claims against the
entities in bankruptcy as well as provides remediation funding
that otherwise would not exist.”  
 Weyerhaeuser Co. and Georgia Pacific LLC objected to the
settlement because it affects the estimated $2.6 billion cleanup
of a Michigan River, the Kalamazoo, where they were also
considered “potentially responsible parties” by the EPA. The
companies said Lyondell gave only 15 days’ notice of its plan to
settle, while 30 days is required by law.  
 Gerber overruled the objections, citing financial problems
that might arise from delays in the case. Unless Lyondell exits
bankruptcy by April 30, it will have a bookkeeping cost of as
much as $8 million and additional interest payments of $2
million a day on its $8 billion bankruptcy financing loan, the
company has said.  
 Gerber also received objections from insurers including
Century Indemnity Co. and ACE Group, which said their policies
don’t cover Lyondell’s environmental claims.  
 The bankruptcy case is In re Lyondell Chemical Co., 09-
10023, and the adversary case is 09-01375, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in U.S. Bankruptcy court in New York at
   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        