-- Yuan May Appreciate as Much as 5% a Year for Next Decade, AlphaShares Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-23T05:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-23/yuan-may-appreciate-as-much-as-5-a-year-for-next-decade-alphashares-says.html

          
          
             China’s yuan will appreciate 3
percent to 5 percent a year for the next decade, boosting the
earnings of multinationals in the country, according to
AlphaShares Inc., the fund company co-founded by Burton Malkiel.  
 “Looking at purchasing power parity, it’s too far out of
the equilibrium,” said Jonathan Masse, who helps oversee about
$480 million in Chinese stocks at Walnut Creek, California-based
AlphaShares. “Burton, who never makes currency calls, believes
the yuan is undervalued,” said Masse, who works with the
Princeton University economist.  
 Multinationals that operate in China such as Yum! Brands
Inc., which runs the Taco Bell and KFC restaurant chain, haven’t
taken into account the yuan’s boost to profits, Masse said in a
phone interview. A “chunk” of future earnings growth will come
from the appreciation of the Chinese currency, he said.  
 “There is an undervaluation in the marketplace,” Masse
said.  
 A 5 percent undervaluation for PetroChina Co.’s Hong
Kong-traded shares would mean the world’s second-most valuable
company should trade at 13.7 times earnings, compared with the
current multiple of 14.4, he said. The stock is traded in Hong
Kong dollars on the island and in yuan in Shanghai.  
 Yuan forwards headed for a weekly gain as central bankers
in India and Brazil joined the International Monetary Fund and
European Union in backing a stronger Chinese currency.  
 G-20 Pressure  
 Speculation the Group of 20 nations will press China for a
revaluation lifted yuan forwards to a three-month high
yesterday. Central bankers in India and Brazil this week backed
a stronger yuan as did the International Monetary Fund and
European Union governments. China has said it won’t be pressured
to revalue its currency.  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards were at 6.6024
per dollar as of 1:42 p.m. in Hong Kong, up 0.3 percent from
last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. After
scrapping a peg to the dollar in July 2005, the government
allowed the yuan to gain 21 percent before holding it at about
6.83 to the dollar since July 2008.  
 There is a 45 percent chance the yuan will appreciate 3
percent or more by this time next year, according to Masse,
based on option prices derived from the WisdomTree Dreyfus
China Yuan Fund and implied volatility, he said.  
 Malkiel’s “A Random Walk Down Wall Street,” which was
first published in 1973 and is now in its ninth edition, argues
that asset prices fluctuate randomly and investors can’t
consistently beat the market.  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        