-- Drummond coal goes on trial over Colombia killings
-- By Verna Gates
-- Wed Jul 11, 2007 9:18pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/07/12/businesspro-colombia-drummond-usa-dc-idUSN1140778020070712

 

 BIRMINGHAM, Alabama  (Reuters) - The Drummond coal company 
helped finance a Colombian paramilitary group that murdered 
three union leaders who opposed company mining policies, a 
plaintiffs' attorney told a U.S. court on Wednesday. 

  Herman Johnson was speaking at the start of a civil trial 
of the Alabama-based company on charges that it committed a war 
crime by providing support to a paramilitary group suspected of 
the 2001 killings.  Privately-held Drummond Company Inc. denies any connection 
with paramilitary groups in a case considered a landmark 
because it could, if successful, open the door for other 
parties to sue transnational companies on human rights abuses.  A Drummond lawyer called the charges "unbelievable."  Witnesses will testify that Drummond gave cash and cars to 
the paramilitary groups fighting in a 40-year insurgency in the 
Latin American country.  "U.S. companies operating overseas should be held to the 
same standards as they are here," said Johnson, whose clients 
are seeking financial damages.  "Union leaders at the La Loma mine were fighting to change 
conditions. They are not here today because in 2001 they were 
executed."  Paramilitaries stopped a company bus carrying union leaders 
Valmore Locarno and Victor Orcasita and other workers from the 
La Loma mine at the end of a shift on March 12, 2001, he said.  Locarno was shot in the head and Orcasita was tortured and 
killed. A third union leader, Gustavo Soler, replaced Locarno 
and was found dead in October.
  DROWNING FISH  At the time, the union was negotiating with Drummond over 
protective equipment after an accident killed three workers, 
Johnson said. That year paramilitaries were seen riding around 
the mine in Drummond vehicles, he said.  A lawyer for Drummond said the company had not supported 
the paramilitaries.  "These were three among thousands of union leaders murdered 
in Colombia," said William Jeffress. "Nobody at Drummond 
believes in assisting in murder of any kind. These charges are 
not fair. They are not true. They are unbelievable."  The Birmingham trial follows a suit by the International 
Labor Rights Fund and the United Steelworkers union in Alabama 
in March 2002 using the 1789 Alien Tort Claims Act.  The act has been used to sue transnational companies over 
human rights abuses. But such suits have rarely succeeded 
because they require proof that war crimes were condoned by the 
companies. Plaintiffs say union activists were targeted for 
extermination.  Plaintiffs' witness George Pierce said he resigned as a 
maintenance worker at the mines because of a hostile atmosphere 
between management and unions.  Pierce said in 1999 he asked Augusto Jimenez, president of 
the La Loma mines, how it was going with the unions and Jimenez 
replied: "The fish that swims with its mouth open soon drowns," 
an implied threat to union activists.  Presiding federal judge Karon Bowdre has rejected a claim 
by plaintiff Juan Aquas Romero that he was tortured and 
threatened by Drummond officials.  Drummond, started in 1935, is a family-run business headed 
by Garry Neil Drummond. Last year it transported more than 25 
million tonnes of coal from Colombia, where it operates the 
largest open-cast mine in the world.