-- Credit Crisis Creates Lost Generation: David G. Blanchflower
-- David G. Blanchflower
-- 2010-01-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-22/credit-crisis-creates-lost-generation-david-g-blanchflower.html

          
          
             There is now a danger that the
biggest fallout from the credit crisis is the creation of a lost
generation of young people who never make the transition from
school to work.  
 The U.S. job figures for December weren’t good and much
worse than most commentators had expected. Payrolls fell by
85,000 last month after a gain the previous month.  
 About 1.7 million Americans left the workforce from July
through December, a 1.1 percent drop and the biggest six-month
decrease since 1961. The  participation rate  last month fell to
the lowest level in 24 years. An exodus of discouraged workers
from the market kept the U.S. unemployment rate from climbing
higher than 10 percent in December. Had the labor force not
decreased by 661,000 last month, the  jobless rate  would have
been 10.4 percent.  
 The slowness of the recovery on the jobs front hits the
young especially hard because youth employment is more sensitive
to cyclic changes than it is for older workers.  
 From December 2008 to December 2009, the employment of 16-
24 year olds in the U.S. fell by 1.78 million, or a third of the
total drop in employment of 5.4 million. In the U.K., total
employment fell over the last 12 months by 432,000 while the
employment of 16-24 year olds fell by 365,000, or a remarkable
85 percent of the total.  
 European Rates  
 Unemployment rates for individuals younger than 25 are
currently 21 percent in the euro area and 19 percent in the U.S.
They are especially high in Spain (44 percent), Ireland (29
percent) and Sweden (27 percent) as well as in most of the
countries that joined the European Union in 2004, including
Latvia (36 percent), Lithuania (34 percent), Hungary (29
percent), the Czech Republic (20 percent), Poland (24 percent)
and Slovakia (32 percent).  
 Youth unemployment tends to be high among teenagers,
minorities, young women with children and the least educated. In
the U.S., the unemployment rate for 16-19 year olds is 27
percent overall, up from almost 21 percent a year ago and 48
percent for African-Americans.  
 In the U.K., the unemployment rate for those younger than
25 is 21 percent, 42 percent for high-school dropouts, and 47
percent for blacks compared with 20 percent for whites.  
 Permanent Scars  
 There is academic literature suggesting that spells of
unemployment for the young tend to create permanent scars,
whereas unemployment for older people leaves only temporary
blemishes. This finding goes back to early work conducted by
 David T. Ellwood , currently dean of the Kennedy School at
Harvard University.  
 In recent work using a unique birth cohort -- which
includes everyone born in the U.K. between March 3, 1958, and
March 9, 1958 --  David Bell and I found  that spells of
unemployment that these respondents experienced during the 1980s
recession lowered their wages, significantly increased their
chances of being unemployed and reduced their happiness 25 years
later, and by a lot, when they were in their late 40s. More
recent unemployment spells that occurred when they were in their
30s had no lasting effect.  
 There is also new evidence that even youngsters who choose
to go to college or university are hurt if they enter the labor
market in a recession.  
 Persistent Effects  
 Lisa Kahn  recently  showed  that the labor-market
consequences of graduating from college in a bad economy have
large, negative and persistent effects on wages. Lifetime
earnings are substantially lower than they would have been if
the graduate had entered the jobs market in good times.
Furthermore, cohorts who graduate in worse national economies
tend to end up in lower-level occupations.  
 Recent work  by  Paola Giuliano  and  Antonio Spilimbergo 
suggests the period of early adulthood (from 18 to 25) seems to
be the age range during which people are more sensitive to
macroeconomic conditions. Being exposed to a recession before
the age of 17 or after age 25 they found has no impact on
beliefs. They find that youngsters growing up during recessions
tend to believe success in life depends more on luck than on
effort, they support more government redistribution, but are
less confident in public institutions. Recessions have a long-
lasting effect on youngsters’ beliefs.  
 There was further recent evidence on the consequences of
rising unemployment on young people in the U.K. The Prince’s
Trust, which was established by the  Prince of Wales , conducted a
 survey  of 2,000 young people in December 2009.  
 Down and Depressed  
 Compared with other young people, those who were
unemployed were found to be significantly more likely to feel
ashamed, rejected, lost, anxious, insecure, down and depressed,
isolated and unloved. They were also significantly less happy
with their health, friendships and family life than those in
work or studying, much less confident of the future and more
likely to say that they had turned to drugs, that they had
nothing to look forward to and that their life had no direction.
And many reported having suicidal thoughts.  
 Young people may well turn out to be the main victims of
the financial crisis. That would be bad for all of us.  
 ( David G. Blanchflower , a former member of the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee, is professor of economics
at Dartmouth College and the University of Stirling. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Blanchflower at  david.g.blanchflower@dartmouth.edu   
          
          


  


        