-- Palm Wins Delay of NTP's Wireless E-Mail Lawsuit
-- Jeff St.Onge
-- 2007-03-22T20:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-22/palm-wins-delay-of-ntp-s-wireless-e-mail-lawsuit-update2-.html

          
          
             Palm Inc. won a court order
delaying NTP Inc.'s patent-infringement lawsuit over wireless
e-mail service while U.S. officials review the inventions.  
 Palm, maker of the Treo wireless e-mail phone, asked U.S.
District Judge James R. Spencer in Richmond,  Virginia , to put
the case on hold in hopes that the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office would nullify the six disputed NTP patents. Spencer
granted Palm's request today, according to court records.  
 ``We are extremely pleased with the court's decision to
grant a stay,'' Mary Doyle, Palm's general counsel, said in a
statement. ``We hope and expect that the PTO's review of NTP's
patents will confirm the decision of the examiners to reject
them all and so avert the need for further litigation.''  
 NTP, based in Richmond, is appealing the agency's rejection
of the patents. Spencer heard arguments on Palm's request for a
delay on Jan. 31.  
 ``NTP's patents remain fully enforceable,'' NTP said in a
statement. ``The ongoing 'reexamination' by the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office is one step in a process that could end in the
federal court system, including the Court of Appeals, which
previously upheld NTP's patents.''  
 Shares of Palm fell $1.71, or 8.8 percent, to $17.74 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading at 4 p.m.  New York  time after
Merrill Lynch & Co. said Motorola Inc. is unlikely to acquire
the Sunnyvale, California-based company.  
 Spencer also presided over the case that ended last March
when Palm rival  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker of the BlackBerry
handheld e-mail device, agreed to pay $612.5 million to NTP. The
judge refused to delay that case because the patent office
review began after Research In Motion had lost a jury trial.
Five of the six patents in Palm's case were part of the suit
against Research In Motion.  
 The case is NTP Inc. v. Palm Inc., 06-cv-836, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff St.Onge in  Washington  at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        