-- `No Room for Error' in Cameron's U.K. Deficit-Reduction Plan
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-10-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/-no-room-for-error-in-cameron-s-plan-to-eliminate-british-budget-deficit.html
British Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s reliance on welfare cuts to balance the budget left
some economists and analysts doubting he will achieve the
biggest deficit reduction ever.  That’s because meeting his target, which Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  detailed yesterday to Parliament,
depends on cutting 7 billion pounds ($11 billion) more than he’d
initially planned from the welfare bill -- spending over which
the government lacks total control.  Cameron and Osborne say their austerity program is keeping
interest rates low and securing the nation’s top-grade credit
rating. Their balancing act is to convince the markets they will
meet their targets while also convincing voters and their
Liberal Democrat coalition partners that the cuts are worth the
pain.  “Basically, there’s no room for error,” said  Peter Dixon ,
an economist at Commerzbank AG in London. “The likelihood is
that something will go wrong. Even if it doesn’t, and we’re on
track, and the costs of putting the fiscal squeeze in place are
quite high, the coalition may start to have differing views on
whether a tough fiscal stance may be maintained.”  Fitch Ratings endorsed the measures and said they were
consistent with Britain’s outstanding bonds -- whose value
reached 1 trillion pounds yesterday -- keeping a AAA rating.  Gilts extended gains, sending the yield on 10-year
securities down 2 basis points to 2.97 percent. The pound fell
0.5 percent to $1.5771 at 8 a.m. in London.  Job Losses  Osborne’s spending cuts will peak at an 81 billion-pound
reduction in 2015 as he seeks to shrink the deficit to 2 percent
of economic output from more than 10 percent today. The plan,
which will lead to half a million public job losses, adds to
existing plans to squeeze welfare by 11 billion pounds, an
overall cut of about 8 percent in the bill for  unemployment  aid,
housing assistance, disability payments and pensions.  “People find themselves trapped in an incomprehensible
out-of-work benefit system for their entire lifetimes, because
it simply does not pay to work,” Osborne said. “This robs them
of their aspirations and opportunities. And it costs the rest of
the country a fortune.”  He said those savings enabled him to cut departmental
spending by 19 percent on average instead of the 25 percent he
had planned in June and gave him an extra 2 billion pounds to
spend on building and other capital projects.  ‘Some Doubt’  “The sheer scale of some of these cuts casts some doubt on
whether they can be realized in practice,” said  Jonathan Loynes 
of Capital Economics. “Particularly if, as we expect, the
economy turns out to be significantly weaker.”  The depth of the cuts is comparable only to those carried
out by Eric Geddes between 1920 and 1925, when spending was
reduced by the equivalent of 100 billion pounds in today’s
prices, according a paper by  Christopher Hood  of the University
of Oxford. The “Geddes Ax’ fell as a Liberal-Tory coalition
sought to reverse the fiscal legacy of World War I.  The savings Osborne is counting on may not materialize if
the cuts crimp economic growth, say economists and analysts.  ‘‘There is a very basic problem here,’’ said  Tim Bale , a
professor of politics at the University of Sussex. ‘‘If these
spending changes -- which take 81 billion pounds out of the
economy -- have any sort of negative effect on economic activity
and unemployment rises, then that would quickly eat up any
savings made in the welfare cutbacks.’’  Social-Security Spending  Social-security spending fluctuates with the economy. It
has risen from less than 10 percent of gross domestic product
when  Margaret Thatcher  took office in 1979 to 13 percent today
and accounts for almost 30 percent of total government spending.
It rose after each of the three recessions over the past 30
years, peaking above 14 percent of GDP in the early 1990s.  ‘‘Local agents who administer benefits are subject to local
political pressures,’’ said  Wyn Grant , professor of politics at
Warwick University. ‘‘Even if the local administrators do not
know the people whose cases they administer, there may well be a
local culture that is sympathetic to, for example, people who
have been unemployed for long periods of time.’’  From 2013, household benefit payments will be capped at
around the median earned income, which is 500 pounds per week,
for households with children -- regardless how many -- and 350
pounds a week those with no kids.  Critics also questioned the lack of detail in Osborne’s
report. Accompanying documents to Osborne’s report listed
examples of cost savings.  ‘Efficiency Gains’  While there are some specifics, such as turning off the
lights in Ministry of Defense buildings, saving 2,000 pounds an
office a year, other proposals offered little detail, including
saving 400 million pounds a year through ‘‘efficiency gains” in
procurement.  “This has been little more than an exercise in accounting
with little or no thought given to implementation,” said  Marc Ostwald , an bond analyst at Monument Securities in London.
“There are a few specifics on quite marginal things and a lot
of buck-passing. We’re really none the wiser.”  The opposition Labour Party said the severity of the cuts
threaten to derail economic recovery and imperil the livelihoods
of workers.  “We have seen people cheering the deepest cuts to public
spending in living memory,” the party’s treasury spokesman  Alan Johnson  said yesterday. “This is what they came into politics
for. Today is the day that abstract figures and spreadsheets
turn into people’s jobs and people’s futures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London on 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  