-- H&R Block Unit Cut By Moody's as Loans May Stop; Shares Fall
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-10-20T21:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/h-r-block-unit-s-rating-is-cut-by-moody-s-as-dispute-may-curtail-tax-loans.html
H&R Block Inc. , the biggest U.S. tax
preparer, had its finance unit downgraded by Moody’s Investors
Service as a legal dispute with  HSBC Holdings Plc  threatens the
company’s ability to offer customers refund loans next year. The
stock declined in New York trading.  Block Financial LLC’s long-term debt was cut to Baa2,
Moody’s second-lowest of 10 investment-grade scores, and could
be lowered further, the ratings firm said today in a statement.
The previous rating was Baa1.  “Block’s financial performance in fiscal 2011 could
materially decline” if the Kansas City, Missouri-based parent
fails to provide refund anticipation loans, Moody’s said.  The U.S. Internal Revenue Service has said it will no
longer help banks including HSBC and  Republic Bancorp Inc. 
underwrite tax refund loans that lawmakers and consumer groups
say carry unfairly high interest rates. H&R Block sued HSBC in
federal court in St. Louis on Oct. 15, claiming the London-based
bank violated its contract to provide the loans through 2013.  H&R Block fell 12 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $10.73 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have fallen 53 percent this year, the  worst performance  in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Block Financial’s $600 million of 7.875 percent notes due
in January 2013 dropped 3.16 cents to 98.09 cents on the dollar
as of 4:29 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The securities fell to the lowest since March 2009, the data
show. Kate O’Neill Rauber, a spokeswoman for H&R Block, didn’t’
return a message seeking comment.  ‘Harsh Operating Environment’  S&P said today that it may cut H&R Block’s  credit rating .  Block’s “inability to offer RALs, its most prominent
settlement product, would in our view hurt revenue and earnings
for the 2011 tax season and possibly beyond,” S&P said in a
statement. “In recent years, a harsh operating environment and
management missteps have buffeted Block’s tax business. This has
caused declining client traffic, lost market share, weakening
earnings, and senior management turnover.”  Block prepared 20.1 million U.S. tax returns in fiscal 2010
and more than 3 million customers, or 17 percent, also purchased
refund anticipation loans, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  