-- `Savage' Austerity Is in U.S.'s Future, Buiter Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-20T20:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/-savage-austerity-is-in-u-s-s-future-citigroup-s-buiter-says-tom-keene.html
Fiscal austerity measures detailed
today by the U.K. government will soon be needed in the U.S.,
according to  Willem Buiter , Citigroup Inc.’s chief economist.  Britain’s deepest budget cuts ever, outlined by Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne , will eliminate almost 500,000
public-sector jobs and impose a levy on banks. The moves are
part of a plan to reduce the 156 billion-pound ($245 billion)
deficit, which is forecast to be 10.1 percent of gross domestic
product this year, to 2.1 percent in the 2014-15 fiscal year.  “The only question was really the timing and the
composition,” given the finite willingness of financial markets
to endure budget shortfalls, New York-based Buiter said in a
roundtable interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance Midday”
with  Tom Keene . “This is very savage, but no more savage than
what the U.S. will have to endure when it gets going.”  Stimulus spending to revive the economy and the lingering
effects of the recession on tax revenue pushed the U.S.  budget
deficit  for fiscal year 2010 to $1.29 trillion, the second-
largest on record, the Treasury Department reported on Oct. 15.
The gap was surpassed only by last year’s $1.42 trillion
shortfall.  The U.S. will still be able to borrow for a while at
“risk-free rates” because its markets remain bolstered by the
dollar’s role as the world’s reserve currency, Buiter said.  “It won’t last forever, that buffer of protection,”
Buiter said. “Market discipline is being eroded by the burden
of unsustainable deficits.”  ‘Overhang’ on Economy  Governments now face the question of when to begin
addressing budget imbalances, said  Howard Davies , chairman of
the London School of Economics, in the interview.  “Our government has made a big throw of the dice today and
said we’ve got to get on with it because the existence of this
large deficit is an overhang on the economy preventing people
from regaining confidence and investing,” Davies said. “They
know that at some point they’re going to have to pay increased
taxes or public spending’s going to be cut.”  The cuts are the right thing to do, Davies said.  It’s an open question whether Osborne has focused “too
much on spending and not enough on taxing,” Davies said. “I
hope he’s willing to be a bit flexible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  