-- `South Park' Cartoon Threats Result in Terror Guilty Plea for Virginia Man
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-20T20:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/-south-park-threats-result-in-terrorism-guilty-plea-for-virginia-man.html
A Virginia man pleaded guilty to
communicating threats against the writers of the  “South Park” 
after they depicted Muhammad, the Islamic prophet, in their
animated cartoon.  Zachary Adam Chesser, 20, of Fairfax County could face as
long as 30 years in prison after admitting today to three
criminal charges including providing material support to Al-
Shabaab, a designated foreign terrorist organization,
prosecutors said.  Chesser, who maintained several online profiles dedicated
to extremist Islamic propaganda, encouraged violent jihadists in
April to attack the TV writers, posting their addresses and
urging readers to “pay them a visit,” prosecutors said.  “Zachary Chesser seriously endangered the lives of
innocent people who will remain at risk for many years to
come,” U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride  said in a  statement . “His
solicitation of extremists to murder U.S. citizens also caused
people throughout the country to fear speaking out -- even in
jest -- lest they also be labeled as enemies who deserved to be
killed.”  Prosecutors also said Chesser posted speeches by Anwar Al-
Awlaki, a Yemeni lecturer whom the U.S. government has
designated a terrorist, justifying the killing of those who
insult or defame Muhammad. Depictions of Muhammad are considered
blasphemous by many Muslims.  According to court records, Chesser said that he twice
tried, unsuccessfully, to leave the U.S. and travel to Somalia
to join Al-Shabaab. The first time his wife was unable to obtain
a passport, while the second time he wasn’t permitted to board
the flight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Annapolis at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  