-- Accor Raises Full-Year Profit Goal; Third-Quarter Sales Growth Accelerates
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-10-20T17:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/accor-raises-full-year-profit-goal-third-quarter-sales-growth-accelerates.html
Accor SA , Europe’s largest hotelier,
raised its profit target for the year after third-quarter sales
growth accelerated, led by upscale and midscale lodgings.  Earnings before interest and taxes may rise to between 400
million euros ($558 million) and 420 million euros this year,
compared with its previous target of 370 million to 390 million
euros, Evry, France-based Accor said in a  statement  today.  Occupancy rates and prices rose this year as the lodging
industry recovered from the recession, which deterred
vacationers and led companies to cut travel budgets, according
to researcher STR Global. Accor said group revenue climbed to
1.58 billion euros from 1.44 billion euros a year earlier. That
beat the 1.52 billion-euro average  estimate  of three analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Accor remains “cautious” for 2011 amid economic
uncertainty, Chief Executive Officer  Gilles Pelisson  said on a
conference call today after the statement was published.  The third quarter’s 9.4 percent like-for-like sales growth
outpaced the first half’s 4.7 percent increase, and average room
rates and occupancy rose in the main European markets. Like-for-
like growth at its upscale and midscale hotels, which excludes
acquisitions, asset sales and currency effects, advanced 12
percent in the quarter, after a 6.7 percent first-half increase.  Accor, owner of the Sofitel and Pullman brands, reported
8.2 percent comparable growth in sales for its economy hotels
outside the U.S., where it posted a 4.9 percent increase in the
third quarter after a decline in the first half.  The French company confirmed its plans to divest its 49
percent stake in Groupe Lucien Barriere “at a later date.”
Accor last month dropped plans to sell shares of the casino
operator in an initial public offering, saying demand was weaker
than it had expected. The hotelier sold its Cie. des Wagon-Lits
onboard rail-catering operations in July after the spinoff of
its Edenred voucher-services division, to focus on hotels.  Accor has  gained  17 percent this year in Paris trading,
giving it a market value of 6.62 billion euros. Rival
 InterContinental Hotels Group Plc  has gained 31 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  