-- MacDonald Dettwiler Is Said to Explore Sale of Company, Units
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   T h e o   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-10-20T20:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/macdonald-dettwiler-is-said-to-explore-sale-of-canadian-defense-contractor.html
MacDonald, Dettwiler & Associates
Ltd. , the maker of the robotic arm used on NASA space shuttles,
is exploring the sale of part or all of the company after
private-equity firms and competitors expressed interest, said
two people with knowledge of the matter.  The Canadian company, which also provides satellite
imagery, will examine offers during the next several weeks, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. MacDonald Dettwiler isn’t running an auction and may
decide not to sell itself or any divisions, the people said. It
has annual  revenue  of about C$1 billion ($978 million) and a
market value of C$1.9 billion.  Buyout funds have approached MacDonald Dettwiler in recent
weeks about taking it private, while defense and technology
companies are more interested in smaller pieces of the business,
said the people. Besides aerospace work, the Richmond, British
Columbia-based company also provides information technology
services to banks and mortgage lenders.  The company “continually evaluates strategic alternatives
relating to its various businesses to increase shareholder
value,” MacDonald Dettwiler said in a statement. There is
nothing to disclose at this time and the company isn’t
considering a sale of all or part of its systems division,
according to the statement. The systems division includes
aerospace assets.  MacDonald Dettwiler climbed as much as 9.9 percent in
Toronto trading to C$50.69, the highest level since May 2007.
The shares rose C$1.80, or 3.9 percent, to C$47.81 as of 4 p.m.
New York time.  Commercial Satellites  A sale of space assets to a non-Canadian buyer would
require the approval of the government, which blocked a 2008
attempt to sell the company’s satellite division. Bank of
America Corp. is advising the company, according to the people.  A spokesman for Bank of America didn’t respond to calls
seeking comment.  One option  the company  has considered is selling its
commercial satellite business and keeping its government
contracting divisions, said one of these people. That unit could
fetch $400 million to $500 million if it were put up for sale,
the person said.  The proposed 2008 sale of the aerospace division to
Minneapolis-based  Alliant Techsystems Inc.  was particularly
controversial because of MacDonald Dettwiler’s Canadarm and its
exclusive distribution rights to Canada’s Radarsat earth
observation satellites. The robotic arm, adorned with a Canadian
flag in space and featured in school textbooks, was first used
on shuttles in 1981. The rejection was the time the country had
blocked a foreign takeover since at least 1985.  Canadian Resources  In recent years, international deals in key industries have
triggered a debate over whether Canadians are losing control of
major companies and natural resources. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s governing Conservative Party, which pledged this year
to open up the country to more foreign investment, is also
grappling with BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion hostile takeover
bid for fertilizer producer Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  Acquisitions by non-Canadian companies are automatically
reviewed under the Investment Canada Act. Under the act, the
government can block any transaction if it finds insufficient
net benefits to the country, based on such factors as employment
and productivity, or it deems it a risk to national security.  In addition to its work with the Canadian government,
MacDonald Dettwiler was recently awarded contracts with the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers, NASA and Saudi Arabian government.  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Theophilos Argitis  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 