-- Acer Net Climbs 24% as Record Margin Boosts Earnings
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2010-10-20T11:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/acer-profit-growth-beats-analysts-estimates-as-pc-maker-shuns-price-cuts.html
Acer Inc. , the world’s second-
largest computer maker, posted its fifth consecutive quarter of
earnings growth after its focus on profitability helped the
company post a record operating margin.  Third-quarter  net income  climbed 24 percent to NT$4.29
billion ($139 million) from NT$3.47 billion a year earlier, the
Taipei-based company said today. The average of 11 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was profit of NT$4.1 billion.  Acer withheld price cuts in the quarter as part of its
strategy to boost profitability resulting in a drop in market
share. Declining component costs and the euro’s appreciation
also helped Acer post record operating  profit margin .  “Acer chose not to get into a price war, so they lost
share while margin improvement was better than expected,” said
 Steven Tseng , who rates the stock “hold” at RBS Asia Ltd. in
Taipei. “The stronger euro also helped profit as Europe is
their  biggest market .”  Third-quarter consolidated revenue was little changed from
a year earlier at NT$167.2 billion. Sales growth of 11.3 percent
from the prior quarter was in-line with its own guidance for a
10 percent to 15 percent rise, Acer said.  Record Margin  Operating profit, which measures sales less operating
costs, climbed 11 percent to NT$5.28 billion, it said. Operating
margin, the ratio of operating profit to sales, was a record
3.16 percent, it said.  Acer, which gained share in the last two years by selling
low-cost netbooks, aims to increase its operating margin to 4
percent within two years,  Jim Wong , head of the company’s IT
products division said in a Jan. 22 interview. That figure was
2.8 percent in the second quarter.  Prices of memory chips, the most common semiconductor used
in computers, fell 15 percent in the third quarter from the
preceding three-month period, Nanya Technology Co., Taiwan’s
second-largest memory-chip maker, said today. The euro climbed
7.9 percent against the Taiwan dollar last quarter boosting the
local currency value of the company’s exports to Europe.  Acer’s share of the global computer market fell to 13
percent in the third quarter, from 13.5 percent a year earlier,
Framingham, Massachusetts-based researcher IDC  said  Oct. 13. In
the U.S., it was replaced by Apple Inc. as the third-largest
computer supplier, IDC said.  Shares  of the PC supplier rose 2.7 percent to close at
NT$80.50 in Taipei trading before the earnings announcement. The
stock has declined 16 percent this year, compared with a 0.8
percent drop in the benchmark Taiex index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 