-- Aetna Chief Williams to Retire in November as Bertolini Is Named Successor
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-10-20T20:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/aetna-chief-williams-to-retire-in-november-as-bertolini-is-named-successor.html
Aetna Inc. , the third-largest U.S.
health insurer, said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Ronald A. Williams  will step down and be replaced by  Mark T. Bertolini ,
the company’s president.  Bertolini, 54, joined Hartford, Connecticut-based Aetna in
February 2003 from Cigna Corp. He was appointed president in
2007, and will take over from Williams at the end of next month.
The new CEO will be paid a salary of $1 million, $95,000 less
than Williams, said  Fred Laberge , an Aetna spokesman today.
Bertolini will be eligible for a bonus of at least three times
his salary if he meets “performance goals,” Laberge said.  Williams, 60, steered Aetna back to profitability twice over
the last decade, after the company failed to set premiums to
match medical costs, said  Ana Gupte , a Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. analyst in New York. Bertolini will need to define how the
company will cope with the health-care law approved in
Washington this year, an area where it hasn’t been as clear as
rivals, she said in a telephone interview.  “I’m not sure we have heard from Aetna on who they are and
who they want to be,” said Gupte, who led Aetna’s strategic-
planning office from 2006 to 2007. Bertolini is a “very, very
seasoned health-insurance leader” who will be “critical in
driving some of the decisions about how they adapt.”  Executive Chairman  Williams will serve as executive chairman for the next six
months, and retire from the company in April, Aetna said in a
statement.  The move was “a personal decision” for Williams, Laberge
said. “It’s kind of a transformative time. He’s had 10 years
with the company, 5 years as chairman and CEO, all the health-
care legislation has gone through.”  The insurer has increased its 2010  profit forecast  twice in
the past six months after lower medical costs helped reduce
spending and Aetna announced about 1,200 job cuts.  Aetna rose 43 cents to $31.33 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York
Stock Exchange  composite trading. The shares had gained 21
percent in the 12 months before today.  Before today, the stock had fallen  39 percent  since
Williams took over as CEO in February 2006, compared with a 9.6
percent drop for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Gupte said the
shares have been hurt by uncertainty over the health-care law’s
effects and don’t reflect Williams’ successes.  Williams led  Aetna’s  move toward plans with higher
deductibles that helped lower its medical costs, she said. “He
was a leader in really adopting that model and moderating the
medical-cost trend by shifting more cost to the members and
having them get more skin in the game,” Gupte said.  Sales, Profits Grow  Under Williams, revenue increased to $34.8 billion last
year, from $21.4 billion in 2005. Health-plan membership climbed
to 33.3 million from 27.9 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Bertolini was senior vice president for national sales at
Philadelphia-based  Cigna  from 2000 to 2002. Prior to that, he
served as executive vice president at NYLCare Health Plans Inc.,
a health insurer bought by Aetna in 1998, and SelectCare Inc., a
Troy, Michigan-based Michigan health plan.  Bertolini “has been an integral part of Aetna’s management
team for a long time and should be familiar to investors,” said
 Dave Shove , a BMO Capital Markets analyst in New York, in a note
to clients. “We view him as experienced, with intimate
knowledge of the business and deep operational understanding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  