-- Africa's 1 Billion Consumers Draw Giant Wal-Mart
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-10-21T13:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/africa-s-1-billion-consumers-getting-richer-can-t-be-ignored-by-wal-mart.html
Richard Twesigye says he shops at
 Massmart Holdings Ltd. ’s Game store in Kampala, the Ugandan
capital, because the quality is better than at the local market.
Like millions of other Africans, he can afford it if the prices
are a little higher.  “These stores are high class,” Twesigye, a 61-year-old
businessman, said while shopping at the chain store. “In
ordinary stores there are a lot of counterfeits, but these big
stores care about their reputation.”  It’s people such as Twesigye, members of Africa’s
burgeoning middle class, who prompted  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  on
Sept. 27 to propose purchasing Massmart, the continent’s third-
largest retailer, for $4.6 billion. With 288 stores in 14
African countries, purchasing Johannesburg-based Massmart would
enable Wal-Mart to  profit  from one of the world’s fastest-
growing retail markets.  Africa’s population reached 1 billion last year and after
economic growth averaging 4.9 percent from 2000 to 2008 the
number of families with an income of more than $20,000 a year
has exceeded India’s, according to a report by  McKinsey & Co. 
Inc. With China investing in African mineral and infrastructure
projects and the continent’s population rising by more than 2
percent a year, that market is set to expand.  “It will be to their own detriment if companies ignore
Africa,” said Celeste Fauconnier, Africa analyst at
Johannesburg-based Rand Merchant Bank, the investment banking
arm of FirstRand Ltd. “We are seeing massive growth in the
population, an increasing middle class and people having more
access to money.”  ‘High Quality’  Consumer spending  in Africa rose at a compound rate of 16
percent between 2005 and 2008, driven by economic and population
growth and migration to cities, New York-based McKinsey said in
its June report. McKinsey estimated that the number of consumers
earning more than $1,000 a year will rise by 221 million within
five years.  Sub-Saharan Africa’s economy will expand 5.5 percent next
year, 2 1/2 times faster than developed countries, according to
the International Monetary Fund. Per-capita income in Sub-
Saharan Africa was $1,096 last year, according to the  World
Bank .  The  FTSE/JSE Africa General Retailers Index  is up almost 50
percent this year, ahead of the almost 9 percent increase in the
 FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index .  South African Retailers  South African companies have spearheaded retail investment
in the continent.  Shoprite Holdings Ltd ., South Africa’s largest
retailer by market value, began expanding abroad in 1995 and now
has 71 stores in 16 African countries, according to the
company’s website. Rivals Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. and  Woolworths
Holdings Ltd ., also Cape Town-based, both announced plans this
year to expand their African operations.  Pick n Pay may accelerate plans to cut costs and improve
efficiency before Wal-Mart’s arrival, the company’s Chief
Executive Officer Nick Badminton said yesterday.  In Mozambique, Anita Guambe, a 45-year-old housewife,
stopped asking her husband, a taxi driver, to buy food for the
family on his regular trips to South Africa after Shoprite
opened a store in the capital, Maputo.  “The entry of big chains is welcome because most of their
products are of high quality and they are well packaged,”
especially compared with the unhygienic street markets where the
poor have to shop, Guambe said.  Challenges  Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart will face  challenges 
in the world’s poorest region. It will need to maintain a supply
chain in a continent where roads and railways are unreliable,
property rights are often weak and security isn’t guaranteed,
said  Paul Theron , managing director of Johannesburg-based
 Vestact Pty Ltd.  It manages more than 1 billion rand ($145
million) of assets for private clients.  Poverty remains rampant in Africa, with 50 percent of the
population living on less than $1.25 a day, according to the
World Bank. And each of the continent’s 53 countries has its own
tariffs, laws and regulations.  “One must not forget that Africa is lots of different
countries, with different cultures, different languages and
different ways of doing business,” said  Jeanine van Zyl , retail
analyst for Old Mutual Investment Group of South Africa, South
Africa’s largest privately owned fund manager. “Perhaps they
will fail if they try and do it too fast. You have to step away
from markets that are not ready to be entered. The process can’t
be rushed.”  Nigerian Potential  Wal-Mart was lured by the potential of markets such as
Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation with 140 million people.  “The focus has shifted towards these oil-based economies
and commodities-based countries, which is where people have more
purchasing power,” said  Andrew Kingston , who helps oversee 300
billion rand for Sanlam Investment Management in Cape Town.  The purchasing power of Nigerians earning between $1,000
and $5,000 a year doubled to $20 billion between 2000 and 2007,
McKinsey estimated. Massmart has plans to increase the number of
its outlets in Africa’s largest oil producer to 20 from one over
the next two years.  Wal-Mart International Chief Executive Officer  Doug McMillon  told investors at a presentation in Rogers, Arkansas,
Oct. 13 that rising income levels in South Africa made Massmart
a “tremendous opportunity.” South African consumers are
“going to want more general merchandise, they’re going to want
more food,” he said.  Over time, he said, the stores outside South Africa will
“pay benefits” as the retailer learns what it’s like to
operate in those countries.  Cleaner, Safer  The  Game  store in Lagos “is cleaner and not as chaotic as
the market,” said Kola Oladapo, an accountant who earns 500,000
naira ($3,300) a month and shops there. “You never have to fear
that by the time you walk out your wallet is missing.”  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, offered to bid 148
rand ($21.56) a share for Massmart, South Africa’s second-
largest listed retailer, a premium of 9.8 percent over its share
price at the time. The company is examining Massmart’s finances.  “The base work has been done, all they need to do is
leverage that,” said Evan Walker, who helps manage 150 billion
rand at Johannesburg-based RMB Asset Management.  For Twesigye, the Game shopper in Kampala, the important
thing is quality.  “Some things may appear expensive, but considering their
superior quality, prices remain good,” he said. “At such a big
store one avoid the hazards of human jam, which comes with
pickpockets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 