-- Aiful Said to Suspend TV Ads on Concern They May Encourage Refund Claims
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-10-20T04:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/aiful-said-to-halt-japan-television-ads-next-month-on-refund-claim-concern.html
Aiful Corp. , Japan’s third-largest
consumer lender, will suspend television ads a month after rival
Takefuji Corp. filed for bankruptcy because of claims for
interest refunds, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Aiful will halt TV spot  advertising  from Nov. 1, the people
said, declining to be identified because the decision hasn’t
been made public. The move was driven by concerns that the ads
would encourage more borrowers to seek refunds, they said.  Japan’s four-year crackdown on the consumer lending
industry forced  Aiful and its rivals  to repay billions of
dollars in overcharged interest, helping push Takefuji into
bankruptcy last month. Acom Co. and Promise Co. said last week
more borrowers are asking about interest refunds following
Takefuji’s collapse.  “The suspension of ads may mean they want to cut costs and
also stay out of the spotlight,” said  Hisayoshi Nogawa , a
structured credit strategist at  BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd.  “Takefuji’s failure will probably spark refund claims
against other consumer lenders, though how much borrowers
actually claim remains to be seen.”  Aiful’s shares rose as much as 8.9 percent, and changed
hands 6.7 percent higher at 48 yen as of 1:28 p.m. in Tokyo.  Agreed With Creditors  Aiful resumed television ads almost 10 months ago in 14
areas including Hokkaido, Hiroshima and Nagasaki after halting
them for more than a year. The Kyoto-based company on Dec. 24
reached an agreement with creditors that helped it to avoid
bankruptcy.  The decision to suspend TV advertising again was also
spurred by the need to cut costs amid an industry slump, one of
the people said. Kouhei Takekura, a Tokyo-based spokesman for
Aiful, declined to comment.  Aiful’s  shares  tumbled 50 percent as of yesterday’s close
since Takefuji filed for bankruptcy protection at the Tokyo
District Court on Sept. 28. Bigger rivals Acom and Promise
dropped to the lowest since their stock market listings in 1993.  Takefuji ’s collapse made it the biggest casualty of the
crackdown on coercive lending to consumers that included capping
rates at 20 percent and allowing borrowers to seek refunds for
overcharged interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  