-- Thailand Keeps Key Rate Unchanged, Easing Pressure for Baht to Appreciate
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-10-20T08:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/thailand-refrains-from-rate-increase-eases-pressure-on-strengthening-baht.html
Thailand refrained from a third
straight increase in its benchmark interest rate as Asia’s
policy makers seek to stem currency gains and shield their
economies from a slowdown in global growth that may hurt exports.  The  Bank of Thailand  kept the  one-day bond repurchase rate 
at 1.75 percent after raising it in July and August, it said in
Bangkok today. The decision was predicted by 13 out of 19
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News, with the rest expecting a
quarter-point increase.  “We think it’s more prudent to hold the interest rate for
now because of rising uncertainties in the world economy and
financial markets,” Assistant Governor  Paiboon Kittisrikangwan 
told reporters in Bangkok today. The exchange rate was one of
many considerations in the decision, though it was “not the
target for our monetary policy.”  Prasarn Trairatvorakul , presiding over his first meeting as
central bank governor, joins counterparts in Malaysia and South
Korea in pausing after raising rates earlier this year. Japan
sold the yen last month in its first intervention since 2004 and
Thailand last week scrapped a tax exemption for foreign
investors in domestic bonds to slow capital inflows that have
pushed up emerging-market currencies.  Currency Market  “The central bank took into account what’s been happening
in the currency market and probably the fact that the tax
measures earlier haven’t been that effective in curbing capital
flows,” said  Santitarn Sathirathai , a Singapore-based economist
at Credit Suisse Group AG. Still, “it’s only an exception to
the trend of hiking rates.”  The baht slid 0.2 percent to 29.95 per dollar as of 3:14
p.m. in Bangkok. The currency has climbed more than 11 percent
against the dollar this year, making it Asia’s biggest gainer
after the yen. The baht reached 29.76 per dollar on Oct. 13, the
strongest level since July 1997.  The Bank of Korea left its  benchmark rate  unchanged at 2.25
percent for a third straight month last week, saying the
currency is a major issue in interest-rate policy. Malaysia in
September kept its overnight policy rate at 2.75 percent,
choosing to support growth as the global recovery slows. China
raised lending and deposit rates yesterday.  “Thai interest rates remain on an uptrend,” Paiboon said
today. “The delay in the interest-rate normalization this time
won’t affect our inflation target” and the country’s inflation
pressure remains unchanged from the last meeting, he said.  Investment Tax  General Motors Co ., Ford Motor Co. and Siam Cement Pcl are
among companies that cited the currency as a threat to shipments
from Thailand, an exporter of cars, rice and electronics.
Commerce Minister  Porntiva Nakasai  said today the baht’s gains
may hurt overseas sales in the coming months.  Thailand said Oct. 12 it will remove a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds, joining
South Korea and Brazil in seeking to curb currency gains as
investors pour a record amount of money into emerging markets.
Korean regulators started an audit of banks handling foreign-
currency derivatives this month, and Brazil raised a tax it
charges foreigners on investments in fixed-income securities.  “When you introduce measures to curb inflows of funds, you
can’t raise interest rates because a bigger yield advantage will
attract more investment into the nation,”  Tohru Nishihama , an
economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in Tokyo,
said before the decision.  Global Problem  Central bank Governor Prasarn, 58, said last week the
exchange rate would be a factor in today’s policy review and
that the central bank was studying more measures after taking
steps to cool excessive baht fluctuations.  Paiboon said today the currency wasn’t the main reason for
the decision, and the meeting didn’t discuss additional measures
to cool gains in the currency. The pressure on the baht “is a
global problem,” not just Thailand’s, he said.  “The decision was not mainly because of the foreign
exchange,” Paiboon said. “It’s just one factor affecting the
economy. We look at all factors.”  Global finance ministers and central bankers earlier this
month asked the International Monetary Fund to prepare reports
to show how the policies of one economy affect others, after
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said a “currency war”
was under way.  Thailand needs “a second dose of medicine, which is to
hold or cut the key interest rate to reduce the incentives for
capital flows,” Thai Chamber of Commerce Chairman  Dusit Nontanakorn  said last week.  Exports Climb  Still, exports rose 21.2 percent to a record $18.07 billion
last month from a year earlier, a report showed today. Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  expects the economy to expand 8
percent this year, the strongest pace since 1995. Gross domestic
product grew 9.1 percent in the second quarter.  Low interest rates should only be a “short-term solution”
as it may lead to asset-price bubbles, said  Frances Cheung , a
Hong Kong-based senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. The
World Bank yesterday lowered its growth outlook for next year in
China and across East Asia and urged officials in the region to
curb inflation and ward off asset bubbles to avoid a repeat of
the Asian financial crisis.  Core inflation , which the central bank uses to guide policy,
may reach the upper end of its target range of as much as 3
percent next year as the economy recovers, former central bank
governor  Tarisa Watanagase  said Sept. 28.  Overall inflation  slowed to 3 percent last month from 3.3
percent in August because of lower oil costs and state subsidies.
Core inflation eased to 1.1 percent from 1.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  