-- Air New Zealand Is the Focus of U.S. Price-Fixing Case, Court Papers Say
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-10-20T17:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/air-new-zealand-is-the-focus-of-u-s-price-fixing-case-court-papers-say.html
Air New Zealand Ltd.  is a focus of a
U.S. Justice Department investigation into alleged price fixing
by air cargo companies, according to court papers.  “Air New Zealand stated to this court that it had been
informed by the government that it is a target of the criminal
investigation,” the Justice Department said in papers filed in
federal court in Brooklyn, New York.  The airline is the latest to be named in an investigation
that has led to $1.6 billion in fines and criminal charges
against at least 18 airlines and eight executives. China
Airlines Ltd.  agreed  on Sept. 27 to plead guilty and pay a $40
million fine.  The Justice Department’s antitrust division revealed that
Air New Zealand is under investigation in court papers that seek
to put on hold a lawsuit by customers of air-cargo companies.
The government is seeking a five-month delay for taking
depositions in the civil case.  Government lawyers said in the filing that depositions and
other fact gathering in the lawsuit would interfere with their
criminal investigation.  Gina Talamona , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to give further details about the probe. A spokeswoman for
Auckland-based Air New Zealand didn’t immediately return phone
messages and an e-mail seeking comment.  Other airlines that have agreed to pay fines in the
investigation are Polar Air Cargo LLC, a unit of Atlas Air
Worldwide Holdings Inc.; Air France-KLM Group, Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd., SAS Cargo Group A/S and Martinair Holland NV, a
unit of KLM.  Airlines have admitted to participating in a scheme to fix
cargo fates, fuel surcharges and security surcharges imposed
after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Justice
Department has said.  Fuel charges by some carriers rose as much as 1,000 percent
in the course of the conspiracy, the department said.  Air New Zealand, United Airlines Inc. and Qantas Airways
Ltd. were among 13 airlines charged by New Zealand’s antitrust
regulator in 2008 with unfairly increasing rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  