-- Taiwan Has Cut `Hot Money' Flows With `Moral Suasion,' Governor Perng Says
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2010-10-20T06:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/taiwan-has-cut-hot-money-flows-with-moral-suasion-governor-perng-says.html
The tactic of “moral suasion” has
helped to cut “hot money” flows into Taiwan, central bank
Governor Perng Fai-nan said as emerging markets step up efforts
to slow currency gains.  Encouraging financial institutions to ensure foreign
investors aren’t leaving money for investment in securities in
Taiwan-dollar deposit accounts is working,  Perng  signaled at a
parliamentary budget hearing in Taipei today.  “Foreign investors can invest in Taiwan securities”
whereas “Taiwan dollar deposit accounts aren’t securities,” he
said.  Finance chiefs of emerging economies have complained that
near-zero U.S. interest rates are pushing funds to their markets,
amid criticism from Western nations that they’re restraining
their currencies to aid exports. The World Bank yesterday urged
Asian officials to curb inflation and ward off asset bubbles to
avoid a repeat of the Asian financial crisis.  Overseas investors held NT$120 billion ($3.89 billion) in
Taiwan-dollar deposit accounts and NT$250 billion in Taiwan
government bonds, the governor said after a lawmaker asked how
much speculative money from abroad there is on the island.  The local dollar rose 0.1 percent to NT$30.858 against its
U.S. counterpart as of 1:08 p.m. local time, according to Taipei
Forex Inc. The currency has risen 2.6 percent in the past month.  Currency Pressures  Nations from Brazil to Thailand and China are striving to
restrain their currencies to shield exporters and support
economic growth. The U.S. and Europe have been pressuring
emerging-market nations to let their exchange rates appreciate
to help rebalance demand in the global economy.  Taiwan’s central bank said in a statement released
yesterday that it will step into the foreign-exchange market
when the local dollar “overshoots.”  “Hot money” is the common factor moving currencies of
emerging markets and the central bank will monitor foreign-
investment flows into deposit accounts,  Perng  said on Sept. 30.  The local dollar “isn’t cheap” and currency appreciation
can cause companies to shift factories overseas, central bank
researcher Lee Jung-chien wrote in an article posted on the
monetary authority’s website yesterday.  Seeking Balance  Stan Shih, founder of Acer Inc., the world’s second-biggest
maker of personal computers, said Taiwan needs to find a balance
between export competitiveness and the strength of the local
currency, according to a statement e-mailed by his foundation
this week.  Taiwan raised  borrowing costs  to 1.5 percent in September,
increasing the benchmark for the second time this year. The
central bank said it will try to prevent real-estate speculation
after a jump in home prices fueled concern the island’s economic
recovery may stoke a property bubble.  The economy and the island’s financial markets are “pretty
healthy,” and 2010 inflation may be less than the statistics
bureau’s August forecast of 1.23 percent, Perng said today.
Taiwan has no plans to buy more gold, which accounts for 4.8
percent of its foreign-exchange reserves, he also said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  