-- Akzo Nobel's Sales Target Leaves Investors Bracing for Costly Acquisitions
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-10-21T06:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/akzo-nobel-s-sales-target-leaves-investors-bracing-for-costly-acquisitions.html
Akzo Nobel NV , the world’s biggest
paintmaker, runs the risk of having to make costly acquisitions
to reach its goal of boosting sales by more than 50 percent.  Recovering demand and internal expansion will lift revenue
to 17.5 billion euros ($24 billion) in five years, a survey of
four  analysts  by Bloomberg showed. That’s short of Amsterdam-
based Akzo Nobel’s 20 billion-euro goal announced on Sept. 28.  “They’ll have to make acquisitions,” said  Edwin Slaghekke , who helps manage about 60 billion euros at Delta
Lloyd Asset Management, including almost 389,000 Akzo Nobel
shares. “I’m concerned they’ll make some expensive ones.”  Akzo Nobel stock has slipped 5 percent since Chief
Executive Officer  Hans Wijers  outlined his sales ambition.
Wijers acquired Imperial Chemical Industries of the U.K. in 2008
for $16 billion, or a multiple of 1.65 times sales. For  Berger
Paints India Ltd. , touted as a possible target, he would have to
pay 1.8 times sales to match its market value of $770 million
after a 64 percent share gain this year.  “We stay disciplined in what we pay,” Chief Financial
Officer Keith Nichols told journalists on a call today. “Our
own organic growth plans get us a long way towards the 20
billion.” Considering bolt-on acquisitions, Akzo Nobel will
look for “white spots in mature markets,” Nichols said.  The company, which also makes chemicals, won’t rule out a
takeover in “any of our business areas, in any of our
markets,” the executive said.  Dried-Up Deals  Akzo Nobel today reported a 21 percent gain in third-
quarter net income to 238 million euros,  in line with  analysts’
estimates. Wijers said he’s “particularly optimistic” about
revenue in high-growth markets. Revenue added 13 percent to 3.89
billion euros, as predicted.  Deals in the 30 billion-euro global paint market dried up
over the past two years by the housing slump and financial
crisis. Akzo bought ICI in January 2008, the same month U.S.
rival  PPG Industries Corp.  acquired SigmaKalon Group for $3
billion. PPG acquired the Dutch company for 1.1 times sales,
taking the industry’s No. 2 spot.  Analysts predict further consolidation and Akzo Nobel,
which has about 15 percent of the market, may have the most to
gain, according to Nomura analyst  Jennifer Barker . Companies may
target Finland’s  Tikkurila Oy , whose market value is already 1.3
times sales after a 4.7 percent gain in Helsinki trading, and
Wendel Investissement’s Materis, Barker wrote in a July note.  Hunting Ground  “There could be markets in Europe, for example,” Nichols
said today. “I’m sure at some point some other things will go
on in the U.S., but I’m not going to say that we’re necessarily
going to be a leader in that.”  Akzo Nobel, the maker of Dulux and Glidden paint brands, is
seeking to double sales from China to $3 billion by 2015,
mirroring the growth plans of other chemical makers including
Royal DSM NV of the Netherlands and BASF SE. Revenue from Asia
climbed 30 percent in the third quarter, and 25 percent in Latin
America, offsetting weaker volumes in Europe, the company said.  In India, it aims to  quadruple sales  to 1 billion euros
over five years. The country’s No. 2 producer,  Kansai Nerolac
Paints Ltd. , is trading at 3.3 times sales. The business is
majority owned by Japan’s Kansai Paint Co.  Valspar Co. , the
fourth-biggest U.S. paint maker which four years ago purchased
China’s Huarun Paints Holdings Ltd., has added 17 percent this
year, giving a value of $3.1 billion, or 1.1 times annual sales.  Focus on Asia  “These days, it seems every chemical company is focused on
Asia,” said  Holger Weeda , head of BNP Paribas’ Dutch equity
funds which holds about 1.3 billion euros worth of shares,
including Akzo Nobel stock. “That means that others are also
looking for acquisitions. That will only increase prices, which
creates a risk of overpaying.”  The significance of acquisitions to growth was deliberately
downplayed at last month’s investor meeting so as not to wake
“sleeping dogs,” said Delta Lloyd’s Slaghekke.  Wijers redeemed his ICI purchase -- at the time lauded as
“too expensive” by  investors  including BNP Paribas’s Weeda --
by reaching savings targets one year ahead of schedule. The CEO
ruled out a similar sized deal.  “It’s hard to determine what management will do,” said
Weeda. “Will they make an expensive acquisition or will they
let go of their targets?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  