-- India Malaria Deaths Are Underestimated by WHO, Researchers Say
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2010-10-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/malaria-killing-13-times-more-indians-than-who-estimates-researchers-say.html
More than 200,000 people may be
dying in India each year because of malaria, 13 times more than
the World Health Organization estimates, a study found.  Researchers based their estimate on interviews with family
members of more than 122,000 people who died between 2001 and
2003. The numbers “greatly exceed” the  WHO  estimates of 15,000
malaria deaths in India each year, the researchers wrote in the
study, published today in the journal  The Lancet .  “It shows that malaria kills far more people than
previously supposed,” said one of the study authors,  Prabhat Jha  of the Center for Global Health Research in Toronto, in a
statement. “This is the first nationwide study that has
collected information on causes of death directly from
communities.”  Remote regions may have an undocumented malaria burden,
because conventional methods of tracking the disease are flawed,
according to the authors. In India, the government malaria data,
which is used by the Geneva-based WHO, only counts patients who
had tested positive for the disease at a hospital or clinic.
Others who died of symptoms closely resembling the malady but
didn’t get a blood test aren’t included, co-author Vinod Sharma
of the Indian Institute of Technology in New Delhi said in an
interview today.  The lack of accurate data may hinder efforts by governments
and aid organizations to provide diagnosis and treatment to the
population at risk, the authors said.  Malaria infects about 250 million people each year and
kills almost 1 million, mostly children living in Africa,
according to the WHO. It’s the world’s third-deadliest
infectious disease behind AIDS and tuberculosis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  