-- Albania Sees Visa-Free Travel With European Union as Boost to Economy
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2010-10-20T17:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/albania-sees-visa-free-travel-with-european-union-as-boost-to-economy.html
Albania, the poorest country in the
Balkans, expects visa-free travel with the European Union to
provide the biggest boost to its economy in two decades,  central
bank  Governor  Ardian Fullani  said.  “This will be the most important thing that happened in
the last 20 years for Albania, its citizens and the whole
region,” Fullani, 55, said today in an interview at a business
conference in Belgrade. “No doubt this will positively impact
the economy.”  Gross domestic product  is forecast to expand an annual 3.2
percent this year with exports driving the recovery and “good
promises” for growth next year, he said. Inflation is targeted
in a band of 2 percent to 4 percent and price growth is “under
control,” he said. The economy expanded 2.8 percent last year,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  Albania, a potential candidate for EU membership, relies on
annual remittances from abroad, which equal about 15 percent of
GDP, mostly from citizens living in Italy and Greece, according
to the CIA factbook. The Adriatic Sea nation that became part of
North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in April last year will gain
visa-free travel to the 27-nation bloc along with Bosnia-
Herzegovina by year’s end.  Greece Impact  The economy hasn’t been “too adversely affected” by
Greece’s debt crisis, Fullani, who was appointed to a seven-year
term in 2004, said. The nation had GDP per capita at $6,400 in
2009, which compares with Slovenia’s $24,000, the wealthiest
nation in the Balkans.  The country has lagged behind other former communist states
in east Europe in allowing competition into the formerly state-
controlled economy. It is working to improve infrastructure and
beef up corporate governance to attract more foreign investment,
he said.  “The banking industry is stable and well capitalized,
Fullani said. “Non-performing loans have peaked.”  Albania will avoid asking the IMF for assistance as
government “significantly reduced” expenditure, Fullani said.
The Washington-based lender in July forecast that Albania’s
economy will grow 2.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Cerni  in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  