-- Halloween Cold Blast May Bring Shivers, Chills to Northern U.S. Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2010-10-20T15:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/halloween-cold-blast-may-bring-shivers-chills-to-northern-u-s-next-week.html
Halloween may bring a cold chill to
the U.S. Midwest and Northeast as the first hint of winter is
unmasked next week.  Forecasters expect the first major blast of cold air of the
season to arrive in much of the northern U.S. as the calendar
turns from October to November, just in time for the Oct. 31
holiday.  “It is going to be more like a psychological flip from
the warm summer and mild October,” said  Thomas Downs , a
meteorologist with commercial forecaster Weather 2000 Inc. in
New York. “That quick flip will be a shock to a lot people’s
psychology and their system, especially in the Upper Midwest,
which has been above-normal for the first half of the month.”  Temperatures may fall 6 to 10 degrees Fahrenheit below
normal, meaning daytime highs will be in the 30s and 40s (minus
1 to 9 degrees Celsius) and lows in the 20s across the major
natural-gas consuming cities in the Midwest, said  Jim Rouiller ,
senior energy meteorologist at private-forecaster Planalytics
Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  “It will be the coldest air of the season so far,”
Rouiller said. “It is going to have a psychological effect on
the trading community.”  Fifty-two percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department. Gas fell to a 13-
month low on Oct. 18 as rising production expanded an inventory
surplus.  Gas Futures  Natural gas for November delivery rose 6.7 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $3.58 per million British thermal units at 10:12
a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gas has dropped 36
percent this year.  New York will have a low of 37 degrees Fahrenheit (3
Celsius) on Nov. 3, 8 degrees below average, according to
 AccuWeather Inc . in State College, Pennsylvania.  There may be lake-effect snow in the U.S. Great Lakes
region as unsettled weather moves through with the cold air,
Rouiller said.  The Northern Hemisphere is a month beyond the Autumnal
Equinox, when the sun passes below the Equator and the seasons
change, Downs said. This means there are parts of the northern
polar region moving into long hours of darkness.  “The cold air is starting to build,” Downs said.  Rouiller said he doesn’t expect the colder air to be long-
lasting. He said it will provide a reminder that winter in the
Northern Hemisphere isn’t far off.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Moming Zhou  in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  