-- American Air May Fly to Hong Kong, Guangzhou on China Growth
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2010-10-20T02:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/american-air-may-fly-to-hong-kong-guangzhou-on-china-growth.html
American Airlines, which won
approval for a new route to Shanghai this month, is considering
adding flights to Hong Kong and Guangzhou, China, because of
increasing travel in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  “Demand in China is very robust,”  Will Ris , senior vice
president of government affairs at American, the third-largest
U.S. carrier, said yesterday in an interview in Tokyo. China’s
growth will lead to “increasing demand all over the place for
more service,” he said.  American, a unit of Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR Corp., is
expanding service to China and Japan after winning preliminary
immunity from antitrust prosecution this month to cooperate with
Japan Airlines Corp. Passenger and cargo traffic at Chinese
airports surged 23 percent last month from a year earlier,
according to the country’s aviation regulator.  “It will be easier to evaluate those markets once we have
the immunity with JAL, because then we can then determine what
markets in China are better served by Tokyo rather than direct
non-stop to the U.S.,” Ris said. He didn’t specify which U.S.
cities might be connected with Hong Kong or Guangzhou.  The antitrust immunity for American’s cooperation with
Tokyo-based Japan Air is subject to an “Open Skies” agreement
between Japan and the U.S. The agreement will be signed Oct. 25
and will come into effect the same day, Japan’s transport
minister  Sumio Mabuchi  said last week.  Revenue Growth  American predicts the agreement will add $100 million
annually in revenue for JAL. The U.S. carrier earlier this year
persuaded Japan Air to stay in the Oneworld alliance and reject
an offer from  Delta Air Lines Inc.  to join the  SkyTeam  group.  “We’re on track on all of our predictions,” Ris said.
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest carrier, is
also a Oneworld member.  American plans to start  daily flights  between New York and
Tokyo’s Haneda airport in January, adding to its service between
the American city and Tokyo’s Narita airport. The carrier also
flies to Narita from Chicago, Dallas and Los Angeles.  American won approval Oct. 7 to fly to Shanghai from Los
Angeles. It already flies to Beijing and Shanghai from Chicago.  AMR  is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings today.
The company may post net income of about $116 million, its first
profit  in two years , according to the average of five analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  AMR rose 14 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $6.52 yesterday in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  