-- Amylin, Lilly, Alkermes Shares Fall on Bydureon Delay
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-10-20T20:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/amylin-lilly-alkermes-shares-fall-as-fda-rejects-bydureon-diabetes-drug.html
Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. ,  Eli
Lilly & Co.  and  Alkermes Inc . dropped in trading after they were
rebuffed a second time in a bid to gain U.S. approval of a once-
weekly version of the diabetes drug Byetta.  The Food and Drug Administration “blindsided” the
companies late yesterday by calling for a study assessing the
heart risks for the new drug Bydureon, said  Phil Nadeau , an
analyst with Cowen & Co. in New York. Amylin was the biggest
loser,  plunging  $9.46, or 46 percent, to $11.03 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, its biggest
single-day decline in 12 years.  Had Bydureon been approved, Nadeau estimated 2011 sales of
$420 million. The drug now will be delayed by as long as 20
months based on a timetable Amylin outlined in a conference call
with analysts, he said. Amylin Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Bradbury  said the company has the  cash resources  to get through
the longer time to bring the drug to market.  “It seems like another instance where the FDA surprised a
company and it doesn’t seem like Amylin did anything wrong,”
Nadeau said yesterday by telephone. “Seems like they got
blindsided and that’s happening more and more.”  The agency hadn’t requested new studies when it declined to
approve Amylin’s Bydureon application on March 15 and asked for
more information about a risk-management plan. Amylin plans to
respond to the FDA with the results of the heart-risk research
by end of 2011, Bradbury said yesterday on a conference call.  While Amylin prepares the heart study, competitor  Novo
Nordisk S/A ’s diabetes drug Victoza will gain further market
share, Nadeau said.  Alkermes, Lilly, Novo Shares  Alkermes, based in Waltham, Massachusetts, dropped $4, or
28 percent, to $10.50 on the Nasdaq exchange, its biggest
single-day decline since July 1, 2002. Indianapolis-based Lilly
fell $1.44, or 3.9 percent, to $36.01 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, the company’s biggest single-day decline in
10 months. The shares of Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo gained
the most in two years in Copenhagen trading.  MannKind Corp., a Valencia, California-based company
developing an insulin inhaler for diabetes, fell 35 cents, or
5.1 percent, to $6.57 in Nasdaq trading. The FDA is scheduled to
decide whether to approve the company’s product, Afrezza, by
Dec. 29.  24 Million Diabetics  Almost  24 million  Americans have  diabetes , which occurs
when people don’t have sufficient amounts of the hormone
insulin, or are resistant to it, hampering their ability to
convert blood sugar to energy. The FDA requires makers of new
diabetes drugs to prove they aren’t tied to an increase in heart
attacks and deaths.  The guidelines were released in December 2008 while the
agency was facing criticism for failing to recognize the heart
risks of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc ’s Avandia, which was found to
increase heart attack risk in 2007 after eight years on the
market. Last month, the FDA restricted use of Avandia, once the
world’s best-selling diabetes drug. Glaxo is based in London.  Amylin had started producing Bydureon to build inventory in
anticipation of an approval, Bradbury said. The excess inventory
may be used if the drug is approved in Europe, or in the new
clinical trials, he said.  Byetta, a synthetic version of a substance found in the
saliva of the Gila monster, stimulates pancreas cells to produce
the hormone insulin when blood sugar is high. A twice-daily
injection, it had worldwide sales of $796.5 million in 2009.  Newer Class  Byetta is a so-called GLP-1 analogue, a newer class of
diabetes medicine that boosts insulin production in patients
with Type 2 diabetes. Victoza, a GLP-1 analogue from Novo, was
approved Jan. 25 by the FDA with required warnings for thyroid
cancer and pancreatitis.  Roche Holding AG  of Basel, Switzerland, said Sept. 10 it
had told doctors to stop giving its experimental GLP-1 analogue
taspoglutide to patients in clinical trials after side effects
such as nausea and vomiting led many to drop out of the studies.  Amylin plans to report third-quarter earnings within the
next few weeks, pending its assessment of the effect of the
FDA’s decision on Bydureon, the company said in a statement.  Lilly markets Byetta outside the U.S. and co-markets it
with Amylin in the U.S. The drug was developed by Amylin, and
the  technology  enabling it to be used in a longer-acting form
was developed by Alkermes. Alkermes will receive royalties of
about 8 percent on Bydureon sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 