-- Manchester United Debt Soars as Fan Backlash Concerns Glazers
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-21T01:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/manchester-united-debt-soars-amid-glazers-concerns-over-backlash-by-fans.html
Manchester United’s owners are
shouldering 16.25 percent annual interest charges because of
concern they’d anger fans by using the soccer club’s cash to pay
off the loans, two people with knowledge of the situation said.  United fans have protested against the Glazer family since
they added debt in their 2005 takeover. Club officials told
investors Oct. 8 the owners are concerned that using team funds
to pay down debt may create a new backlash, said the people, who
declined to be identified because of the sensitivity of the
issue and the confidentiality of the information.  Friction may intensify after England striker  Wayne Rooney 
said yesterday he wants to leave because he’s unsure about the
club’s ability to acquire top players. The 80 million pounds
($126.8 million) received from the sale last year of  Cristiano Ronaldo  to Real Madrid still hasn’t been reinvested in the team.  The Glazers “should quite rightly be worried because the
supporters are already up in arms about what they’ve done with
the club,” Duncan Drasdo, head of the  Manchester United
Supporters Trust , an anti-Glazer group, said in an interview.
“It tells supporters just how much power they have. If they
want to stop the Glazers taking money out of the club then they
need to show there’s a strong opposition.”  ‘PIK’ Loans  The Glazers bought the 18-time English champion for 790
million pounds and in January converted a bank loan secured
against the team into a 526 million-pound bond. Under the bond’s
terms, the Glazers can make a one-time withdrawal of 70 million
pounds from the club to pay down a “payment-in-kind” loan
that’s ballooned to 220 million pounds. With PIK loans, interest
rolls up annually and increases the amount owed.  A spokesman for the three-time European Cup winner United
declined to comment.  Jonathan Grella , communications director
for the National Football League’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers, which
the Glazers also own, said he doesn’t comment on the investment
in the soccer team.  Anti-Glazer protests increased after details of how the
owners were financing the once-debt free club were revealed in
the bond prospectus. Thousands of supporters took to wearing the
green and gold colors of the team’s original incarnation, and a
group led by  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, emerged as a potential buyer.  10 Holders  The PIK loan issued in August 2006 to Red Football Joint
Venture Ltd., United’s parent company, is held by fewer than 10
investors, mainly hedge funds, the people said. The facility
started out as a 138 million-pound loan, accruing annual
interest of 14.25 percent. That rose to 16.25 percent after the
club breached a debt-to-earnings ratio agreement. The Glazers
bought back between 15 and 20 percent of the loan in 2008.  The PIK loan to United matures in 2017. If the Glazers hold
the debt until then, they will owe almost 600 million pounds at
the current interest rate, according to Bloomberg calculations.  “That kind of return is phenomenal,” said Stephen
Schechter, chief executive officer of investment bank Schechter
& Co. in London. “When money-market funds are paying less than
1 percent that’s damned attractive.”  United’s 8.375 percent dollar bonds due 2017 were little
changed at 99.5 cents versus 99.38 cents yesterday, according to
Bloomberg generic prices. The club’s 8.75 percent sterling bonds
due 2017 were little changed at 99 cents compared with 98.75
cents yesterday, according to Bloomberg prices.  Annual Withdrawals  As well as the one-time 70 million-pound payment, the
Glazers can withdraw annual amounts from the club, based on the
excess of EBITDA -- earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization -- over the 45 million-pound annual interest on
the bond.  They can take out half the difference between EBITDA and
bond interest, with the withdrawal amount capped at 25 million
pounds for this year only. EBITDA was 100.8 million pounds in
2009-10.  The Glazers say the team isn’t for sale. The club’s chief
of staff, former J.P. Morgan banker Edward Woodward, and Jamie
Reigle, director of corporate development, gave their lenders
the same message at a meeting at the club’s London offices on
Oct. 8.  Earlier that day the team announced a record loss of 83.6
million pounds for the year ending June 30. Much of that was
attributable to interest payments and costs related to replacing
long-term bank debt with the bond. Sales also hit a record 286
million pounds.  Champions League Win  Since the Glazers’ purchase, United has won three domestic
league titles and took the Champions League in 2008. The team is
atop its Champions League group after a 1-0 home win against
Turkish team Bursaspor last night.  Sales have grown across the club’s revenue streams since
the takeover, notably in commercial operations. A London-based
sales team has negotiated sponsorship and partnership deals in
industry sectors across the world.  Fans say that off-field success hasn’t led to investment in
improving the team’s on-field performance. It’s fourth in the
league, five points behind leader Chelsea.  Following the sale of Ronaldo before last season, coach
 Alex Ferguson  chose to recruit lesser-known players such as
defender Chris Smalling and forwards Bebe and Javier Hernandez
this season.  Rooney Exit  The prospect of Rooney becoming the next big name to leave
Old Trafford will disturb fans even more.  “There has been reluctance from the Glazers to spend money
on new players in recent seasons,” Drasdo said. “If that
coincides with Wayne Rooney leaving the club you can imagine the
reaction.”  Rooney could leave without United getting a transfer fee if
he lets his contract run out. His deal expires in mid-2012 and
he’s been linked with clubs including Premier League champion
Chelsea and Manchester City.  “If Rooney doesn’t renew his contract Manchester United
has lost 50 million pounds in value,” Schechter said. “If he
says, ‘I’ll play out my contract and be a free agent in the
end,’ that should be bigger worry for the fans and the Glazer
family.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  