-- Manchester City Coach Mancini Says Club Hasn't Talked With Wayne Rooney
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-10-20T10:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/manchester-city-coach-mancini-says-club-hasn-t-talked-with-wayne-rooney.html
Manchester City coach  Roberto Mancini  says his club hasn’t contacted  Wayne Rooney , who is
looking to leave 18-time English soccer champion Manchester
United.  United coach  Alex Ferguson  yesterday said the England
forward told him he wants to leave the club, and billionaire-
owned City is one of the few English clubs that might be able to
afford the player. Today, Mancini said there’s “never” been
contact between his club and Rooney.  “Rooney is a great player but I think he’ll stay at
United,” Mancini said at a press conference. “He is a United
player. It’s not correct to speak about” possibly signing
Rooney, he added.  The Daily Mirror reported yesterday that City is ready to
put together a 100 million-pound ($157 million) package for
Rooney. The club would pay 50 million pounds as a transfer fee
and pay him another 50 million in wages over four years. Today,
the Daily Telegraph said Chelsea would offer 20 million pounds
for the player, knowing that Ferguson doesn’t want to sell to
City.  Rooney has struggled this season, scoring just one goal,
after injuries and media reports about his personal life limited
his playing time. He’s had disagreements with Ferguson, and
failed to score at this year’s World Cup, when England crashed
out against Germany in the round of 16.  The forward was taken off in the 60th minute in the last
game he started, against Bolton Sept. 26, and sat out the next
two games because Ferguson said he was injured.  ‘Adamant’  “The player says he’s adamant, he wants to leave,”
Ferguson said yesterday. “We have to deal with the next part of
that, as best we can. I can do no more than what we’ve said and
done at the moment.”  Rooney contradicted his manager after playing in England’s
0-0 draw with Montenegro on Oct. 12, saying he “didn’t know”
why Ferguson thought he was hurt. The coach said he wanted to
rest the striker, who hasn’t scored for United in open play
since March, when he got the club’s goal in a 2-1 Champions
League loss to Bayern Munich.  Rooney came on as a substitute in a home draw with West
Brom four days ago as United lost a 2-0 lead, drawing 2-2.  The 24-year-old has been under media scrutiny because of
allegations about his personal life. Ferguson left him out of a
Sept. 11 game at former club Everton rather than face potential
fan abuse.  Rooney left his boyhood team Everton to join United for 27
million pounds in 2004. He scored a hat-trick against Fenerbahce
in the Champions League in his first game for his new club,
making him the first United player in 99 years to get three
goals in his debut.  Rooney was hurt in practice yesterday and won’t play in
tonight’s Champions League match against Bursaspor of Turkey.
He’s scored once this season for the club, a penalty in a 3-0
defeat of West Ham in August, and has 132 goals in 289
appearances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  