-- Hanger Orthopedic Plans Debt as High-Yield Inflows Surge: New Issue Alert
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-10-20T08:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/hanger-orthopedic-plans-debt-as-high-yield-inflows-surge-new-issue-alert.html
Hanger Orthopedic Group Inc. , the
operator of orthotic and prosthetic patient-care centers, plans
to sell debt after six straight weeks of investor cash flows
into high-yield bond funds.  Hanger Orthopedic may sell $200 million of eight-year notes
and use proceeds to repay outstanding debt and for general
corporate purposes, the Austin, Texas-based company said
yesterday in a statement distributed by PR Newswire.  Investors are increasing deposits in junk-bond mutual funds
as the yields on the 10-year U.S.  Treasury note , the market
bellwether, hovers near the lowest since January 2009. Flows
into the funds are driving up demand for speculative-grade
securities and will help push down the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt, said  Marc Gross , a money manager at RS
Investments in New York.  “People continue to put money into high-yield because it’s
one of the only games in town that’s really accessible to
investors where you can pick up extra yield,” said Gross, who
helps oversee the $124 million  RS High Yield Bond Fund . “Rates
are historically low across the board, so on a relative basis
high-yield makes tremendous sense.”  Funds investing in high-yield debt have seen six straight
weeks of inflows, including $773 million last week, according to
EPFR, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm.  Junk Yields  Yields on speculative-grade corporate bonds were unchanged
at 7.77 percent yesterday, the lowest this year, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II
Index. That was 604 basis points more than the average Treasury,
2 basis points wider, the index showed.  High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  S&P raised its rating on Hanger Orthopedic one level to BB-
yesterday, citing the company’s “demonstrated ability to extend
its record of steady revenue growth and margin expansion despite
weak economic conditions and minimal reimbursement rate
increases.” It assigned Hanger Orthopedic’s notes a grade of B,
two steps lower. Moody’s ranked the debt B3.  Abengoa SA, the Seville, Spain-based engineering and
biofuel company, sold $650 million of seven-year notes through
its Abengoa Finance SAU unit to lead $1.65 billion of high-yield
issuance yesterday, Bloomberg data show. Sales of $4.58 billion
this week compare with none on Oct. 11 and Oct. 12.  Investment-grade corporate bond spreads were unchanged at
182 basis points yesterday, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master Index. Yields on the debt
fell 2 basis points to 3.6 percent, the index data show.  PepsiCo Inc., the world’s largest snack-food maker, sold
$2.25 billion of debt in a three-part offering as investment-
grade companies issued $8.15 billion of bonds yesterday,
Bloomberg data show.  The following is a description of at least $7.44 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  POSCO, the world’s third-largest steelmaker by production,
is planning a benchmark-size sale of 10-year fixed-rate senior
unsecured bonds denominated in U.S. dollars, according to a
person familiar with the transaction, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private.  TRANSNET LTD., South Africa’s state-owned ports, rail and
pipeline operator, said it may sell $1 billion worth of bonds in
international markets to pay for expansion. Transnet has 35.2
billion rand ($5 billion) of debt outstanding.  ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK plans to sell five-year sukuk in
dollars that yield 40 basis points to 50 basis points more than
the benchmark midswap rate, according to three people with
knowledge of the sale. CIMB Holdings Bhd., Citigroup Inc., HSBC
Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc are managing the issue,
the people said.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The debt is likely to be for five years and is meant to
“fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance sheet,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone interview from
Doha. The bank will sell the bonds in dollars and the local
riyal currency, the CEO said in a July 25 interview.  KOREA GAS CORP., the world’s biggest buyer of liquefied
natural gas, plans to raise as much as $1 billion from dollar-
denominated bonds to fund overseas investments, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter. The Seongnam-based company
hired five banks to help it sell notes, the person said,
declining to name the banks and asking not to be identified
because the information is confidential. Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG arranged the meetings, the
person said.  Not Rated  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  AVANGARDCO INVESTMENTS PUBLIC LTD., Ukraine’s biggest egg
producer, plans to sell $250 million to $350 million of five-
year bonds that may yield less than 9 percent, according to a
person familiar with the transaction, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  High Yield  HANGER ORTHOPEDIC GROUP INC., the operator of orthotic and
prosthetic patient-care centers, plans to sell $200 million of
eight-year debt, according to a statement distributed by PR
Newswire. Proceeds from the sale may be used repay its 10.25
percent notes due in June 2014, it said in the statement.  FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD. , Australia’s third-biggest
producer of iron ore, plans to sell $2.04 billion of U.S.
dollar-denominated bonds to repay outstanding debt, according to
a statement to the Australian stock exchange. The senior
unsecured notes will be rated BB+ and will mature in October
2015, Fitch Ratings said in a separate statement.  (Added Oct. 19. See  FMG AU  .)  AMERICAN ACHIEVEMENT CORP., the maker of class rings and
yearbooks for the educational institution market, plans to sell
$365 million of senior secured notes due 2016. The debt will be
guaranteed on a second-priority senior secured basis by parent
company AAC Holding Corp., the company said in an Oct. 18
statement distributed by Business Wire.  (Added Oct. 19. See 75407Z US .)  RURAL/METRO CORP., the provider of medical transportation
and fire protection, plans to sell $200 million of senior notes
due 2018 through a private offering, the company said in an Oct.
18 statement distributed by Marketwire.  {Added Oct. 19. See  RURL US  .)  HIDILI INDUSTRY INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT LTD., the Chinese
coal mining company, plans to sell $400 million of five-year
dollar bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be identified as details are private. Moody’s
rated the debt B1 and S&P ranked it BB-, one step higher.  (Added Oct. 19. See  1393 HK  .)  ACCELLENT INC., the medical device manufacturer owned by
private-equity firm KKR & Co., plans to sell $315 million of
senior subordinated notes due in 2017, the company said in an
Oct. 14 statement distributed by Business Wire. Proceeds may be
used to finance a tender offer for Accellent’s 10.5 percent
senior subordinated notes due in 2013, according to the
statement.  SUN HEALTHCARE INC., a provider of nursing and health-care
services to senior citizens, plans to sell $225 million of notes
due 2018 through Sabra Health Care REIT Inc., the company said
in a statement distributed by Marketwire. Sun Healthcare will
guarantee the senior notes until it completes its separation of
Sabra Health Care into a publicly traded company, according to
the statement. Proceeds may be used to repurchase Sun
Healthcare’s outstanding 9.125 percent senior subordinated debt
due 2015, the company said.  OMNOVA SOLUTIONS INC., the maker of specialty chemicals
used in paper and carpets, plans to sell $250 million of senior
notes to help fund its purchase of Eliokem International SAS and
to repay or replace bank debt, the Fairlawn, Ohio-based company
said in a statement. A new $200 million term loan will also help
pay for the acquisition, the company said. Omnova has no
outstanding bonds, said company spokeswoman Sandi Noah.  FRIENDFINDER NETWORKS INC., the publisher of Penthouse
magazine, plans to sell $296 million of secured first-lien notes
due 2013, according to a note from Standard & Poor’s. S&P rated
the debt from the private Boca Raton, Florida-based company B.  Offerings in Pipeline  BELARUS may sell debt in the U.S. and Asia, according to
Finance Minister Andrei Kharkovets. “We will undoubtedly enter
the Asian and the American markets,” Kharkovets said in an Oct.
15 interview in Moscow, declining to comment on the timing of
possible sales.  GEORGIAN RAILWAY LLC, the former Soviet republic’s state-
owned rail company, is preparing a bond roadshow in the U.S.,
Giorgi Gagnidze, the company’s financial director, said in
comments broadcast on Rustavi-2 television.  ICICI BANK LTD., India’s second-largest lender, hired
Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to sell as
much as $1 billion of bonds with maturities between five and 10
years, according to three people familiar with the offering.
India’s second-biggest lender is rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by S&P.  IRVING PLACE CAPITAL may issue $250 million of senior
secured notes to help pay for its leveraged buyout of Thermadyne
Holdings Corp. and refinance the company’s debt, Thermadyne
Chief Financial Officer Steven Schumm said in an Oct. 5
interview. The company will also arrange a $60 million asset-
based revolving credit line. Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal Bank
of Canada will manage the sale of six-year bonds, Schumm said.  KOREA NATIONAL OIL CORP. hired Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas
SA, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Korea
Development Bank for a sale of dollar bonds, a person familiar
with the deal said on Oct. 6. The company known as KNOC said in
September it plans to raise between $500 million and $1 billion
to fund acquisitions. KNOC is rated A1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and A by Standard & Poor’s.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC.  is planning its first
debt offering since its bailout two years ago as the insurer
moves toward independence from the U.S. government, Chairman
Steve Miller said Sept. 29.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS , a Turkish bank, applied to Turkey’s
capital markets regulator to sell dollar-denominated bonds
abroad, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock Exchange.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 