-- Mantega Quashes Serra-Driven Bond Rally With Tax Increase: Brazil Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-10-20T15:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/mantega-quashes-serra-driven-bond-rally-with-tax-increase-brazil-credit.html
Brazil’s longest-maturity fixed-rate
bonds are tumbling the most on record this week as a tax
increase on foreigners squelches a surge in demand sparked by
opposition candidate  Jose Serra ’s advance in presidential polls.  Yields on the government’s bonds due in 2021 rose 49 basis
points, or 0.49 percentage point, the past three days to 11.98
percent after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  boosted a tax on
foreigners’ purchases of local fixed-income assets for the
second time this month to curb gains in the currency. The rout
reverses a rally last week sparked by polls showing that Serra,
who has pledged to be fiscally “responsible,” was gaining
ahead of an Oct. 31 vote.  Mantega, joining what he described as a global “currency
war” to protect exporters, raised the tax on foreigners to 6
percent on Oct. 18, two weeks after a doubling of the rate to 4
percent failed to arrest a two-year rally in the real.
Foreigners tripled local bond holdings over the past three years
to $89 billion in part on speculation Brazil would cut the
budget deficit and lower the second-highest inflation-adjusted
interest rates in the world after Croatia.  “Brazil is sending a big message to us foreigners holding
the bonds: They want us out of the Brazil curve,”  Jeremy Brewin , who manages $2 billion of emerging-market assets at
Aviva Investors in London, said in an interview. “This is a
currency war for them, and Mantega has reinforced the view that
he’d keep on going if necessary. Serra may create an environment
for further unwinding fiscal stimulus, but when the market
begins to sell, it tends to overwhelm any positive thoughts.”  Serra Gains  Brewin, who put on a wager in the futures market last week
that a victory by Serra would lower Brazilian interest rates,
said yesterday that he may “review” the bet in coming days.  Yields on bonds due in 2021 surged to 11.98 percent today,
the highest since Aug. 6, while yields on bonds due in 2017
jumped 39 basis points in the past three days to 11.83 percent.  The rout erased all the gains from last week when a
Datafolha poll released Oct. 15 showed Serra, 68, narrowed his
deficit with  Dilma Rousseff , President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s handpicked successor, to 6 percentage points. Rousseff,
a former energy minister and cabinet chief under Lula, won 47
percent in a first-round vote on Oct. 3 while Serra took 33
percent, setting up the Oct. 31 runoff election.  Serra, who carried out spending cuts as governor of Sao
Paulo, Brazil’s biggest state, has pledged to trim government
payrolls and renegotiate prices on public contracts. Those moves
will offset plans to boost the minimum wage and payouts to
pensioners, he said in September. While Rousseff, 62, has vowed
to control the budget, she said in an interview with TV Globo
network on Aug. 31 that promoting spending cuts was a “crime.”  ‘Little Panic’  “There’s a little panic in the market and the rates are
blowing up,”  Ram Bala Chandran , a Latin American currency and
rates analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a telephone interview
from New York. “If Serra starts to lose votes, we could see a
further sell-off at the back end of the curve.”  Serra’s campaign staff didn’t respond to e-mail and
telephone messages seeking comment yesterday. The Finance
Ministry declined to comment in an e-mailed statement.  Mantega is working to stem the real’s 38 percent gain since
the end of 2008, a rally that helped push the shortfall in the
 current account , the broadest measure of trade, to an all-time
high of $45.8 billion in the 12 months through August. Mantega,
61, said last month that governments around the world are waging
a “war” to weaken their currencies as Japan sold the yen for
the first time in six years and Colombia bought dollars in the
foreign-exchange market.  Real Declines  Brazil’s central bank has bought $2.8 billion in dollars
this month through Oct. 8, after tripling the purchase to $10.8
billion in September from August. The purchases have pushed its
 foreign reserves  up 18 percent this year to a record $282
billion.  The real gained 0.5 percent to 1.6752 per dollar at 11:12
a.m. in New York, after falling 0.5 percent yesterday. Before
yesterday, the real had gained 1.4 percent since the Oct. 4
increase in the tax, while the yield on bonds due in 2021
dropped 27 basis points as record-low rates in the U.S., Europe
and Japan kept fueling demand for higher-yielding emerging-
market assets.  Mantega’s move may be more effective this time in weakening
the currency because he’s signaling he’ll do “whatever it takes
to stop the inflows,” said  Julian Jacobson , an emerging-market
debt manager at  Fabien Pictet  & Partners Ltd. in London.  “If you change it from 4 percent to 6 percent within a
couple of weeks, who knows they won’t take it to 8 or 10 percent
next week?” Jacobson said in a telephone interview. “If the
government wants to make it unattractive to foreign investors,
they will succeed.”  ‘Temporary Relief’  With yields at 11.98 percent on the bonds due in 2021
yesterday, investors can earn an annual return of 10.95 percent
by holding the securities to maturity after paying the 6 percent
tax, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
a 2.47 percent yield on  10-year U.S. Treasuries , 6.1 percent on
Mexican debt and 7.1 percent on Indonesian securities.  The tax “may provide a temporary relief, but won’t do the
job” because Brazilian rates are so high,  Arminio Fraga , a
former central bank president, said in an Oct. 18 interview in
Naples, Florida.  “Brazil will have to create the conditions for its
interest rates to go down,” said Fraga, who’s now chairman of
BM&FBovespa SA, the owner of Latin America’s biggest securities
exchange. “It will have to cut government spending and credit
growth.”  Budget Gap  Lula’s government boosted spending 18.2 percent in July
from a year earlier, helping push the  budget deficit  to 3.4
percent of gross domestic product from 1.2 percent in October
2008 and boost inflation above its 4.5 percent annual target.
 Brazil’s gross debt  equaled 60 percent of GDP last year,
compared with 38 percent in Mexico and 46 percent in Colombia.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 fell five basis points today to 11.27 percent,
suggesting traders are betting the central bank will raise the
benchmark lending rate to about 12 percent by the end of 2011
from 10.75 percent. The central bank will keep the benchmark
rate unchanged at a policy meeting today, according to all the
51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Policy makers have boosted the rate 200 basis points from
8.75 percent in April to contain inflation as Latin America’s
biggest economy expands at its fastest pace in two decades.
Benchmark rates in the U.S., Europe and Japan are no more than 1
percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points today to
185, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  ‘Punishing Investors’  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose three basis points to 104 yesterday from a two-
year low of 89 on Oct. 13, according to CMA DataVision prices.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Brazil plans to extend the maturity of government bonds and
turn the notes due in 2021 into benchmark securities, the
Treasury said in its annual borrowing plan in January.
International investors owned 49 percent of the bonds maturing
in 2021 as of April, according to the Treasury. They held 61
percent of government debt due in 2017, up from 50 percent at
the end of 2008.  “They’re punishing investors that really help you extend
duration,” said  Pablo Cisilino , who helps manage $14 billion in
emerging-market debt at Stone Harbor Investment Partners in New
York. “They have to be mindful that it’s not cost free for them
and the kind of investors that they hurt by doing this. When
they want to issue longer-term bonds, they’re going to have to
pay an extra fee for it because of this tax.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  