-- U.S. Government Should Better Explain Bribery Case Settlements, Group Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-10-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/anti-bribery-group-calls-on-u-s-to-better-explain-rules-for-settlements.html
The U.S., while it still leads the
world in battling corruption, should better explain why cases
against corporations are settled, said an international group
that combats transnational bribery.  The Paris-based  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  praised the U.S. for its commitment “at the highest
echelon of the government” to fighting bribery in overseas
business transactions. No country has investigated or brought
more criminal cases among parties to the OECD’s international
anti-bribery treaty, the group’s 38-country Working Group on
Bribery said in a  report  made public yesterday.  At the same time, the report said, the U.S. Justice
Department needs to do a better job of explaining why and how
cases against corporations are resolved.  “Publishing more detailed reasons” for the resolution of
cases “would give more insight into the DOJ’s choice of
settlement agreements and thus enhance accountability and
transparency of the process,” according to the 68-page report.  Most corporate cases in the U.S. are settled through
agreements to defer or forego prosecution of companies, the
group said. The U.S. government has reaped billions of dollars
in fines and penalties through such agreements.  The OECD, founded in 1961 from the organization formed to
administer Marshall Plan aid after World War II, promotes
dialogue among states while seeking to coordinate domestic and
international policies.  Praise From U.S.  U.S. officials welcomed the report, which praised the
government for creating specialized anti-bribery units in the
Justice Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  “The United States has risen to the forefront of enhanced
global efforts to combat foreign bribery,” Assistant Attorney
General  Lanny Breuer  said yesterday in a statement.  From 1998 to September, 50 individuals and 28 companies
were criminally convicted of foreign bribery, and 69 individuals
and companies were held civilly liable. Another 26 companies
were sanctioned for foreign bribery under non-prosecution and
deferred prosecution agreements, the report said.  The report, which was a peer review adopted Oct. 15, said
the U.S. has more than 150 pending FCPA criminal investigations
and 80 civil probes, many of which overlap.  Criminal Probes  In December 2008, Siemens AG paid $1.6 billion to resolve
criminal and civil probes in the U.S. and Germany. In February
2009, Kellogg Brown & Root LLC agreed to pay $579 million to
resolve criminal and civil probes. BAE Systems Plc agreed in
March to pay $400 million to U.S. authorities and $50 million to
U.K. authorities. Daimler AG agreed in April to pay $185 million
to resolve investigations.  The Working Group called for greater clarity about the
reasons the U.S. enters into such agreements with companies
suspected of violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the
U.S. anti-bribery law.  Agreements to delay or forgo prosecution have existed since
1993, the group noted, adding that “their use has grown
dramatically in recent years.” The guidelines for when the U.S.
government will make such agreements are “slightly uneven and
indirect,” the report said.  Industry representatives want more clarity from the U.S. on
exceptions to the FCPA law for so-called facilitation payments
for “routine governmental action,” the report said. Businesses
face “continuing demands for facilitation payments by foreign
public officials,” according to the report.  “The sector representatives -- aerospace and defense,
extractive industry, financial services, construction, and
manufacturing -- almost unanimously called for further guidance
concerning the scope of the exception for the facilitation
payments,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 David Glovin  in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 