-- Apple Unveils New MacBook Air, Lion Operating System
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2010-10-20T21:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/apple-s-steve-jobs-to-introduce-updated-macintosh-line-operating-system.html
Apple Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs  unveiled a lighter MacBook Air laptop and a version
of the Macintosh operating system called Lion, adding features
that make the company’s computers more like its mobile devices.  Macs will soon have an online application store, similar to
the one for the iPhone and iPad, Jobs said today at Apple’s
headquarters in Cupertino, California. New computers also will
take better advantage of multitouch gestures on track pads,
mimicking Apple’s mobile iOS software. The app store will open
within 90 days, and Lion will be released in the summer of 2011.  “We’ve been inspired by some of the work we’ve done on
iOS, and want to bring them back to the Mac,” Jobs said.  Apple  is using the popularity of its iPhone and iPad tablet
to bolster demand for its oldest product, the Macintosh. Sales
of the computers rose 22 percent to $4.87 billion last quarter,
making up 24 percent of revenue. More than half of Mac purchases
in the company’s retail stores in the most recent period were
from first-time buyers.  “I don’t hear enough people talking about the halo
effect,” said  Colin Gillis , an  analyst  at BGC Partners LP in
New York. He recommends  buying  the stock. “As more customers
are being exposed to Apple products, they are spending more of
their computer dollars on Apple.”  ‘Hooking Up’  The new MacBook Air, which is 0.68 of an inch (less than 2
centimeters) at its thickest point, combines features of the
iPad with a notebook, Jobs said. The computer’s battery lets
users surf the Web wirelessly for seven hours. In standby mode,
the battery can last 30 days. Like the iPad, there’s no hard-
disk drive or CD-ROM, just flash memory. It weighs 2.3 to 2.9
pounds, depending on the model.  “We asked ourselves, ‘What would happen if a MacBook and
an iPad hooked up?’ Well, this is the result,” he said. “We
think it’s the future of notebooks.”  The new Air is on sale now in two versions: a 13.3-inch
model costs $1,299 to $1,599, depending on the amount of memory,
while the 11.6-inch product starts at $999.  “They priced it really aggressively,” said  Shaw Wu , a
technology analyst with Kaufman Bros. LP in San Francisco. He
also advises buying Apple’s shares.  The new products could present problems for PC rivals such
as  Hewlett-Packard Co.  and Dell Inc., since the Air could appeal
to laptop owners seeking iPad-like simplicity, said  Van Baker ,
an analyst at Stamford, Connecticut-based  Gartner Inc.   No Need to Drive  The new Macintosh app store also could shake up how software
is sold. Just as the iPhone version led to an explosion of new
product development, the Mac store will make it easier to reach
the almost 50 million Mac owners, Jobs said.  “If you want to get Microsoft Word, now you don’t have
drive anywhere to pick up a box,” Jobs said. “You can buy on
impulse.”  That approach could hurt software distributors, such as
Best Buy Co., said Gartner’s Baker. “Suddenly, a lot of their
Mac software business will go to Apple.”  Apple sold a record 3.89 million Macs in the fiscal fourth
quarter, which ended in September, a 27 percent increase from
last year. The gains helped Apple nudge aside Acer Inc. to
become the No. 3 U.S. PC seller in the period that ended in
September, behind  Hewlett-Packard  and  Dell , according to
Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC. The Mac is Apple’s second-
best-selling product, behind the iPhone.  The Mac has gained market share for 18 straight quarters,
Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  said at the event.  “It’s incredible momentum,” he said.  Chinese Stores  Apple ’s retail stores had 75 million visitors in the past
fiscal year, Cook said. Its Chinese stores, which opened in the
past two years, are drawing the heaviest traffic, he said.  The company also introduced a new version of its media
software, iLife 11. The update adds features for handling video,
photos and music, and is more tightly integrated with Facebook.
The collection of programs includes iPhoto, which now makes it
easier to e-mail photos and turn pictures into books and cards.  Apple rose $1.04 to $310.53 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares, up 47 percent this
year, surpassed $300 last week.  The stock fell 2.7 percent yesterday, a day after Apple
predicted narrowing gross margins and profit that missed some
analysts’ estimates, an indication that it’s making less from
each iPhone and iPad it sells.  Corporate Customers  Apple is adding sales staff to court more business
customers as the Macintosh gains popularity among corporate
clients. Enterprise sales will become a larger piece of the Mac
business, Cook said on an Oct. 18 conference call.  Apple typically upgrades its computer line in October. At
last year’s Mac event, the company introduced larger-screen
versions of its iMac and updated its MacBook notebook. Apple’s
last version of its operating system, called Snow Leopard, was
 unveiled  in June 2009 and  shipped  two months later.  The influence of smartphones and tablet computers on
traditional PCs will be lasting,  Sarah Rotman Epps , an analyst
at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Forrester Research Inc.   “The next wave of PC design will be inspired by mobile
devices,” she said in an e-mail. “New Macs give the devices
the nearly instant-on, long battery life that consumers have
come to expect in mobile devices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Burrows  in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  