-- Marathon Signs Exploration Contracts, Marking Entry into Iraqi Kurdistan
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2010-10-20T20:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/marathon-signs-exploration-contracts-marking-entry-into-iraqi-kurdistan.html
Marathon Oil Corp.  signed its first
agreements to explore for petroleum in Iraq’s Kurdistan region,
acquiring positions in four exploration blocks as the company
seeks to boost crude production.  Under contracts signed with the Kurdistan Regional
Government, Marathon will have an 80 percent ownership and
operate two blocks northeast of Erbil, the Houston-based company
said in a statement today. The Kurdistan government will hold
the remaining 20 percent stake. Financial terms weren’t
disclosed.  The company also said it will have a 20 percent working
interest in the Atrush block and 25 percent in the Sarsang block
north-northwest of Erbil, Kurdistan’s capital. Oil producers in
northern Iraq were forced to halt exports last year after a
dispute involving Kurdish authorities and Iraq’s central
government.  “There’s obviously potential pitfalls associated with
being there, but I think that it’s worth trying it and seeing
what happens,” said  Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus Research
in New York who has a “buy” rating on Marathon shares and owns
none.  Marathon sees “a good, high-potential exploration
opportunity” that is in the early stages, said  Lee Warren , a
company spokeswoman. She declined to comment on a timeline for
exploration.  Iraq has the second-largest oil reserves in the Middle
East, after Saudi Arabia, and wants to more than double its
current crude output of 2.4 million barrels a day. To raise oil
production, the government awarded a dozen service contracts to
international oil companies including Exxon Mobil Corp. and OAO
Lukoil in two licensing rounds last year.  Marathon rose 58 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $35.68 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
risen 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 