-- Argentine Bondholder Asks U.S. Court for `Equal Treatment' Among Creditors
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-20T20:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/argentine-bondholder-asks-u-s-court-for-equal-treatment-among-creditors.html
NML Capital Ltd. asked a U.S. court
to enforce “equal treatment” among Argentina’s creditors,
claiming the country is wrongly paying other debts before those
of holders of defaulted bonds.  NML, an  Elliott Management Corp.  affiliate, claims that the
1994 Argentine bonds it holds guaranteed investors that they
would be treated equally with the nation’s other holders of
unsecured, unsubordinated debt, according to papers filed today
with U.S. District Judge  Thomas Griesa  in New York.  Unless a court orders the South American nation to pay the
firm at the same rate as other creditors, “NML will have to
continue chasing Argentina around the globe, searching for
assets to recover,” its attorneys said.  NML, based in the Cayman Islands, claims Argentina owes it
more than $2 billion on the defaulted bonds. Griesa in May
granted a court order freezing $3.1 billion in Argentine assets
in the U.S. at the request of NML and  Kenneth Dart ’s EM Ltd. A
U.S. appeals court upheld that order in August.  “Unlike other countries that have defaulted on external
debt, Argentina has gone to extraordinary -- and unique --
lengths to avoid its legal obligations,” NML said today in a
statement.  Gibson Dunn  Today’s court filing was credited partly to former U.S.
Solicitor General  Theodore Olson , a partner in the Washington
office of Los Angeles-based Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP.  Carmine Boccuzzi , an attorney with Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP in New York who represents the Republic of
Argentina, didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the filing.  Argentina in 2001 declared a moratorium on payments of
principal and interest on external debt, NML said in another
filing today. NML asked Griesa to grant a judgment in its favor
on the nation’s liability for payment on several different
classes of bonds, and then to later set the amount of money
owed.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 08-
cv-60978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 