-- Harvard Boosts Cash, Treasuries to $1 Billion Following Endowment Crisis
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2010-10-20T17:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/harvard-increases-cash-to-1-billion-following-record-losses-in-endowment.html
Harvard University, the oldest and
richest college in the U.S., more than tripled its cash holdings
to $1 billion over two years as it suffered record losses in the
global financial crisis.  Harvard increased the amount of cash, U.S. Treasuries and
other easy-to-sell assets it holds from $300 million in June
2008 and put less of its operating funds in its endowment,
according to its  annual report . The university in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, lost $1.8 billion of the operating funds last
year because much of the money was invested in the endowment,
which dropped a record 27 percent.  “Significant progress was made in transitioning the
investment profile of the university’s pooled operating funds to
be more readily available and less susceptible to illiquidity
and market fluctuations,” university officials said in the
report.  Harvard is among wealthy universities increasing cash
holdings after their investment strategies left them short of
money to run their campuses. At least 15 sold a combined $7.2
billion of taxable bonds between December 2008 and November
2009, boosting cash on hand while incurring record debt.  Harvard expects to “maintain or further increase” cash
holdings this fiscal year, it said in its annual report. The
university also has cash in its endowment, which is run by
Harvard Management Co., and had a combined $4 billion of so-
called internal liquidity as of June 30, it said.  Harvard officials didn’t immediately respond to requests
for comment. The university said last month its investments
rebounded 11 percent in the year through June 30, with the
assets in its endowment increasing to $27.6 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  