-- Stocks Rebound on Earnings; Dollar Slumps
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-20T20:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/asia-stocks-post-longest-losing-streak-in-two-months-yen-bond-risk-gain.html
The dollar slid the most against the
euro since July and reached a 15-year low versus the yen amid
speculation the Federal Reserve will pump more cash into the
economy. Boeing Co. and Yahoo! Inc. helped lead stocks higher
after earnings beat estimates, while energy shares and oil rose.  The dollar snapped a three-day rally against the euro,
losing 1.6 percent to $1.3950 versus the common currency, and
sank to as low as 80.85 yen. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
increased 1.1 percent to 1,178.17 at 4 p.m. in New York after
slumping 1.6 percent yesterday for its biggest drop in two
months. Oil rebounded from its largest drop since February,
returning above $81 a barrel. The yield on the 30-year Treasury
bond slipped three basis points to 3.89 percent.  The Fed’s Beige Book business survey today said the U.S.
economy grew at a “modest pace” with little sign of
acceleration last month, fueling speculation central bankers may
undertake further measures to support growth. Boeing and Yahoo
joined  84 percent  of S&P 500 companies that have topped analyst
earnings estimates since Oct. 7, boosting optimism that profits
are improving even as the economic recovery slows.  “The tenor of the Beige Book confirms that the economy
remains stuck in a low gear, while the good news is that there’s
only limited downside,” said  Alan Gayle , senior investment
strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in Richmond,
Virginia, which oversees $63 billion. “With U.S. growth already
weak and the Fed poised to pump more money into the system,
there’s additional downward pressure on the dollar.”  Dollar Slides  The dollar weakened against 15 of 16 major peers, losing at
least 1.5 percent versus currencies including the Australian
dollar and Swedish krona. The U.S. currency has depreciated more
than 3 percent versus all 16 major counterparts since the end of
August, falling more than 10 percent versus the euro and
Australian dollar, as speculation grows that the Fed will buy
more Treasuries in a tactic known as quantitative easing.  “It’s quantitative easing and the dollar debasement that’s
the predominant story,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director
of foreign-exchange strategy at CIBC World Markets in London.  U.S. stocks advanced following yesterday’s slide triggered
by China’s interest-rate increase and concern banks will need to
buy back more bad mortgages.  ‘Sky Is Not Falling’       Boeing  rallied 3.4 percent after reporting profit of $1.12
a share, more than the average estimate of $1.07 in a Bloomberg
survey. Yahoo rose 2 percent after the most-visited U.S. Web
portal late yesterday said third-quarter net income more than
doubled to $396.1 million, or 29 cents a share.  Wells Fargo &
Co. , the largest U.S. home lender, climbed 4.3 percent after
saying it’s “eager” to return cash to shareholders following a
record quarterly profit.  “We’ve had a variety of company earnings reports which
indicate that the sky is not falling,” said  Lawrence Creatura ,
a Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated Investors
Inc., which oversees about $350 billion. “Yesterday was a dark
day for the market because of macro factors. Today it will be
company management teams’ turn to lead the way again.”  The pound lost 0.8 percent against the euro and weakened
against 10 of its 16 most-traded peers after the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King , voted 7-1-1 to keep the benchmark interest rate at 0.5
percent and the bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds ($314
billion).  Andrew Sentance  pushed for an increase in the rate to
0.75 percent, while  Adam Posen  voted to boost the asset-purchase
plan by 50 billion pounds.  ‘Potent Weapon’  King said in a speech yesterday that some gauges of U.K.
inflation are “extremely subdued,” signaling that he may be
open to stepping up bond purchases. He also said that monetary
policy remains a “potent weapon.” Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  detailed the deepest budget cuts ever in Britain,
eliminating 500,000 public-sector jobs and imposing a levy on
banks to extract the “maximum sustainable” revenue, outlining
plans in Parliament today to virtually eliminate the 156
billion-pound deficit.  Three stocks rose for every two that fell in the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index , which increased 0.3 percent. Peugeot climbed
0.9 percent as the carmaker said quarterly revenue grew and
raised its full-year outlook. BASF rose 2.6 percent in Germany
after the world’s biggest chemicals maker said recovering
markets helped lift its third-quarter profit beyond analysts’
estimates.  The yield on Ireland’s 10-year bond increased seven basis
points to 6.31 percent. The difference in yield, or spread,
between Portuguese and German 10-year bonds  increased  11 basis
points to 3.29 percentage points, while the Greek-German yield
gap was one basis points narrower at 6.58 percentage points.  Commodities Rally  Corn futures rose for the first time in six sessions as a
weaker dollar improved prospects for grain exports from the
U.S., the world’s largest grower and shipper. Corn for December
delivery rose 5 percent to $5.735 a bushel on the Chicago Board
of Trade, after falling 5.7 percent during the prior five
sessions.  Oil advanced 2.9 percent to $81.77 a barrel after falling
4.3 percent yesterday, the biggest decline since Feb. 4.  Gold futures for December delivery rose $8.20, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $1,344.20 on the Comex in New York. Copper
rebounded from the biggest drop in three months, with December
futures climbing 3.6 cents, or 1 percent, to settle at $3.7935 a
pound in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  