-- Asia-Pacific Bond Risk Rises as China Rate Move Catches Traders Off Guard
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-10-20T02:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-as-china-rate-move-catches-traders-off-guard.html
The cost of protecting Asia-Pacific
bonds from non-payment increased as investors, surprised by
China’s first interest-rate increase since 2007, bought credit-
default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan advanced 2 basis points to 108 basis
points as of 10:24 a.m. in Singapore, after earlier jumping 7,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show. The Markit iTraxx
Australia index increased 3 1/2 basis points to 113 as of 1:22
p.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking Corp.  “The Chinese rate hike combined with the ongoing mortgage
litigation risk caught people totally off-guard and that’s
affected all risk assets,”  Finbar Cooke , head of credit
derivatives at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said
in a phone interview from Sydney. Traders were “long risk and
expecting the quantitative easing rally to continue.”  Stocks tumbled after China’s central bank unexpectedly
raised lending and deposit rates 25 basis points to avert asset
bubbles and tackle inflation. A higher deposit rate is designed
to encourage savings instead of investments, reining in growth
and acting as a substitute for currency appreciation as China
faces pressure from the U.S. to let the yuan rise.  Potentially weaker Chinese demand for commodities depressed
oil, gold and commodity currencies including the Australian
dollar, which fell to 97.28 U.S. cents as of 1:28 p.m. in Sydney
after reaching parity with the greenback on Oct. 15.  ‘Negative Sentiment’  “We expect negative sentiment to remain in the short run
as global markets are very sensitive to slowdown risk in the
country that led the world out of recession,”  Dariusz Kowalczyk , a Hong Kong-based senior strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB, wrote in a note to clients. Even so, China
wouldn’t be raising rates “if it were not confident about its
growth prospects,” so “risky assets are likely to recover
soon,” he said.  The Markit  iTraxx Japan index  increased 1 1/2 basis points
to 109 as of 10:40 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Morgan Stanley. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
debt against default and traders use them to speculate on credit
quality. An increase suggests deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness and a drop shows improvement.  The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  