-- Lasry's Avenue Capital Group to Raise Fund to Invest in High-Yield Debt
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2010-10-20T18:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/lasry-s-avenue-capital-group-to-raise-fund-to-invest-in-high-yield-debt.html
Avenue Capital Group, the hedge fund
run by  Marc Lasry , plans to raise a fund to buy different types
of credit by selling shares to the public, a first for the firm.  The firm has hired  Randy Takian  from Morgan Stanley to
oversee the fund as Avenue looks to diversify its product
offerings and potentially raise more portfolios by selling
shares to the public, according to people familiar with the
decision. Takian is listed as trustee and chief executive
officer of the Avenue Income Credit Strategies Fund, according
to a prospectus filed yesterday with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Avenue joins  Apollo Global Management LLC  and Blackstone
Group LP’s GSO Capital Partners LP in raising debt funds by
selling publicly traded shares. The firms are seeking to
capitalize on revived demand for loans and bonds after the worst
financial crisis since the 1930s.  The Avenue closed-end fund will invest at least 80 percent
in leveraged loans, unsecured high-yield debt and structured
products such as collateralized debt obligations, the firm said
in the prospectus.  CDOs pool high-yield, high-risk bonds and slice them into
securities of varying risk and return.  It may also invest in derivatives, including credit-default
swaps and foreign currency derivatives so it can hedge against
losses from debt denominated in different currencies, according
to the filing.  Todd Fogarty , a spokesman for New York-based Avenue,
declined to comment.  Leveraged Loan Returns  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Total
Returns Index has  returned  7.1 percent this year as of
yesterday. The index tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated
first-lien leveraged loans. Junk bonds have returned 13.6
percent this year as of yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Speculative-grade, or junk debt is
ranked BBB- by Standard & Poor’s and less than Baa3 at Moody’s
Investors Service.  Bank-loan mutual funds had inflows of $177 million for the
week ended Oct. 6, bringing total inflows to more than $9.6
billion, according to Lipper data published in a Bank of America
Corp. report. High-yield funds had inflows of $366 million,
bringing year-to-date flows to more than $9.2 billion, according
to the data.  Leon Black ’s buyout firm Apollo filed a prospectus with the
SEC Oct. 1 saying it plans to raise a fund by selling shares to
the public, in which at least 80 percent of its assets will be
invested in senior loans, according to the filing. Apollo Credit
Management LLC will serve as the fund’s investment adviser,
according to the filing.  Blackstone/GSO Fund  Blackstone completed the initial public offering of the
Blackstone/GSO Senior Floating Rate Term Fund May 27, according
to a news release. It issued $280 million of stock in the common
share offering, not including the underwriters’ option to
purchase additional shares. It was the New York-based firm’s
first closed end fund, according to the release.  Private-equity firms pool investor money to take over
companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt, with the
intention of selling them later for a profit.  While this is Avenue’s first public fund, its Avenue
International Management LP has served as a subadvisor on a
portion of the Van Kampen Dynamic Credit Opportunities Fund.
That fund’s investment advisor is Van Kampen Asset Management, a
subsidiary of Van Kampen Investments Inc., according to a filing
with the SEC. Invesco Ltd. announced it agreed to acquire Van
Kampen last year.  Avenue, which has about $20 billion in assets under
management, has raised more than $1 billion this year for a new
distressed-debt fund and anticipates raising another $1 billion
to $1.5 billion in the next three months, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Haunss  in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  