-- Asset Managers Tap Inner Springsteen to Support Amputee Charity
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-10-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/asset-managers-bankers-tap-inner-springsteen-to-rock-for-amputees-charity.html
A small check buys a prosthetic leg,
which can change a child’s life.  Tomorrow night, dozens of hedge-fund and finance-industry
professionals will tap into their inner  Springsteen  for the
annual “Rocktoberfest” fundraiser which benefits the
organization  A Leg to Stand On .  “I get to do something fun besides just writing a check,”
said  Sy Jacobs , managing partner of Jacobs Asset Management LLC
and the leader of the rock band JAM Partners.  “What attracts me to the organization is the means by
which they raise money.”  Since launching its first clinic in Ahmedabad, India, in
2003, ALTSO has helped more than 5,300 amputees and children
with  club feet  walk crutch-free.  It runs a training program for local doctors and
rehabilitation specialists and works in 10 countries, including
Bangladesh, Haiti, Sierra Leone, Colombia and Peru.  So far, the New York nonprofit has sold more than 800
tickets compared with 700 last year, said Gabriella Mueller,
associate director. ALTSO hopes to raise $250,000. Tickets are
$200. A leg is $250.  “That translates into a child being able to walk to
school, to have the ability to run from danger, to be active and
to be considered on par with other children,” said  C. Mead Welles , ALTSO’s co-founder and the president of Octagon Asset
Management in New York.  Jakarta Boy  Welles, who has played drums with his group in past
Rocktoberfests, was moved to help amputees during a 1997 trip to
Jakarta, where he saw a legless boy sitting atop an inverted
trash can while other boys pulled it with ropes.  Donations to ALTSO declined with the recession, so it cut a
staff position and sublet some of its office space to help with
rent costs. Still, this year it will nearly double the number of
children assisted to 1,350 from 670 last year.  “We thought we’d rather trim our expenses than cut back
the services we’re providing,” Welles said. “We’re not immune
to what’s going on in the economy.”  Marketing company Patron Advisors, Jacobs Asset Management,
Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse, BNP Paribas and Brownstone Asset
Management are among the sponsors for this year’s event.  “ Rocktoberfest ” takes place tomorrow from 7 p.m. to
midnight at 583 Park Avenue in Manhattan. Tickets and
information:  http://www.altso.org  or +1-212-683-8805.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 