-- Tate’s 15% Cuts Will Hurt Programming, Says Serota
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-10-20T17:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/tate-s-serota-says-exhibition-program-to-be-affected-by-15-subsidy-cuts.html
Tate  Director  Nicholas Serota  said
that the U.K. government’s 15 percent cut to national museums’
grants by 2015 would affect the exhibitions they mount and
spelled a sea change for the arts in the U.K.  “You can’t take out nearly one-sixth of the public
funding and expect everything to continue exactly as it was,”
Serota said in a telephone interview hours after the budget
announcement. “Nothing will be quite the same.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said today
that the  Department of Culture  will have its budget cut to 1.1
billion pounds ($1.74 billion) by 2015. Reductions in programs
such as national museums and funding of major arts
organizations will be limited to 15 percent, he said.  Tate, which incorporates four museums in London,
Liverpool and St. Ives, said it faces a lowering of grant-in-
aid from 33.1 million pounds to 30.9 million pounds at the end
of the four-year period.  Serota, 64, said the cuts, while “less than we feared,”
represented a “very significant” decline in revenue. “We’re
bound to see changes in the way that people program and the
quantity of program and so on,” he said, adding that opening
hours also might be affected.  “No one can be cheerful about a reduction of 15 percent,
and I think it represents a sea change in the way in which the
arts in this country function,” he said.  Arts Council  Far deeper cuts of 29 percent will have to be made by
 Arts Council England , the body that funnels government
subsidies to performing-arts groups and non-national museums
in England. Its regularly funded organizations include the
 Royal Opera House , the National Theatre, Sadler’s Wells
Theatre and the  Serpentine Gallery .  In the U.K., the government gives the Arts Council an
overall envelope of cash, and leaves it up to the council to
share out the money among cultural groups.  At a House of Commons briefing, Culture Minister  Ed Vaizey  said the government had asked the Arts Council “as a
condition of the settlement” that they limit the overall
reductions to their regularly funded organizations to 15
percent.  The government also asked the Arts Council to make cuts
of 50 percent to its administrative budget and of 75 percent
to managed funds, Vaizey said.  ‘Tipping Point’  “This cut will inevitably have a significant impact on
the cultural life of the country,” Arts Council England Chief
Executive Alan Davey said in an e-mailed statement. He said
his organization had identified 15 percent as being the
“tipping point” for arts funding, and now would look at how
much individual recipients will get when it meets on Oct. 25.  Separately, the  British Museum  and the  National Gallery 
reacted relieved to news of 15 percent cuts -- roughly half
what had been feared in the run-up to the announcement.  In an e-mailed statement, British Museum Director  Neil MacGregor  said his institution was “pleased” that Culture
Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  and Vaizey “have recognized the unique
role museums play in the world today and reaffirmed their
support of free admission.”  National Gallery Director  Nicholas Penny , in turn, said
in an e-mailed statement that the culture department “has
ensured the unique contribution that museums make has been
reflected in the settlement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 Mbeech@bloomberg.net . 