-- Attacks on Wall Street Don't Win Votes in JPMorgan's Ohio Home
-- B y   P a t r i c k   O ’ C o n n o r   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-10-20T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/attack-on-wall-street-fizzles-as-campaign-message-in-jpmorgan-s-ohio-home.html
Mary Jo Kilroy  is running against
Wall Street again, echoing a message that won her a first term
in Congress two years ago. This time, the Ohio Democrat is in
danger of losing her seat to a former bank lobbyist.  In the fall of 2008, as financial  markets tumbled  and
lawmakers approved a $700 billion bank bailout,  Barack Obama  led
Kilroy and other Democrats in harnessing voter anger to win the
White House and score big gains in the House and Senate.  Kilroy defeated Republican  Steve Stivers  by about 2,300
votes after a monthlong recount. Her struggle to get re-elected
in a rematch with Stivers sums up her party’s failure to
replicate that strategy even after passing the most sweeping new
financial-market rules in seven decades. For many voters,
concern about  jobs  overwhelms ill-feeling toward the banks.  “We need Wall Street,” said Peggy Kolodziej, 63, a nurse
from Columbus in Kilroy’s 15th congressional district. “We
don’t need those million-dollar bonuses, but we need them to
help the economy grow.”  The populist tone seems off-key in  Columbus , Ohio’s capital
and largest city, because this is where Wall Street meets Main
Street. In the McCoy Center, an office complex on 150 acres on
the outskirts of the city,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Columbus’s
largest private employer, has its biggest facility in the world.
Some 10,000 employees are housed in a four-story building so
wide that it has roughly the same square footage as the 102-
story  Empire State Building  in New York.  Financial Powerhouse  JPMorgan, whose Columbus workforce ranks behind only those
of the state government and Ohio State University, employs a
total of 16,800 people in this city of about 750,000, according
to  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a company spokeswoman.  That has helped make the city’s financial-services industry
a bright spot in a state in need of success stories. About
54,000 residents work in the industry, according to the local
Chamber of Commerce. The  jobless rate  at the end of August was
8.3 percent in Columbus, compared with  10.1 percent  for the
state and 9.6 percent nationwide.  The  Bloomberg Columbus Ohio Index  of the economy, which
measures the performance of 60 companies, including locally
based firms such as  Huntington Bancshares Inc. , has risen 10
percent this year.  Taking on Dimon  The financial industry’s role in the local economy hasn’t
stopped Kilroy, 61, a critic of U.S. banks during negotiations
over the market-rules overhaul that Obama signed this year, from
taking on  JPMorgan . In 2009, she and other lawmakers pressed
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  on whether the New York-
based bank was outsourcing back-office jobs to India.  John Donnelly , the executive vice president for human
resources, rejected that concern, writing to Kilroy at the time,
“In Ohio, we have 17,600 employees; over 3,400 of them live in
your congressional district.”  Kilroy defended her position in an interview this month.
“Many people were concerned their jobs would be outsourced,”
she said. “They were happy to see me take a stand.”  JPMorgan spokeswoman Zuccarelli declined to comment.  Kilroy’s focus on the financial industry has less impact
with voters now, said pollster  John Anzalone .  “You just have to pick your medicine, and the Wall Street
stuff is just old news,” Anzalone said in an e-mail. Most
Democratic incumbents, he said, are more focused on distancing
themselves from House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi ’s agenda and showing
their independence from Congress.  Trailing in Polls  Kilroy was 9 points behind Stivers in a  poll conducted 
Sept. 28-30 by the Hill newspaper. The nonpartisan Cook
Political Report  rates  the race “lean Republican.”  Kilroy, a former social worker who suffers from multiple
sclerosis, has backed Obama’s health-care bill and helped shape
proposals to curb executive pay during her two years in
Congress. Obama campaigned in Columbus on Oct. 17 for her and
other Democrats, his fourth visit to the city as president.  Kilroy was also vocal in her support of the new financial
regulations and participated in talks on merging the House and
Senate bills as a member of the Financial Services Committee.
The law includes provisions for a consumer-protection agency and
forces banks to shift derivatives-trading operations into
separate subsidiaries -- a requirement that JPMorgan’s Dimon has
called “an operational nightmare.”  “Because of this bill, Wall Street will no longer be able
to act like a casino,” Kilroy said on the House floor on July
21, the day Obama signed the bill into law.  ‘Got Off Easy’  Her criticism resonates with some Columbus residents, who
remain angry that Congress approved the bank bailout with
taxpayer funds.  “Wall Street got off easy,” said  Michael Mercil , 56, an
artist and teacher who supports Kilroy. “So many of the firms
are standing because the taxpayers bailed them out.”  Kilroy condemned Stivers as a “bank lobbyist” in 2008 and
has reprised that attack this year against the former state
senator who lobbied for Bank One Corp. of Columbus before it was
acquired in 2004 by JPMorgan.  “When another corporate lobbyist, like bank lobbyist Steve
Stivers, runs for Congress, they pony up big bucks because Bank
Man Steve is one of them,” an announcer says in one of Kilroy’s
ads. “Do we really need another lobbyist in Washington?”  ‘Silly’ Charges  Stivers, 45, an Eagle Scout who serves in the Ohio National
Guard, dismisses that criticism.  “Those charges are silly; people don’t believe them,”
Stivers said. “I’m proud of every minute I spent at Bank One. I
helped them create jobs. I helped them make Ohio a better place
to do business. I’m not going to run from that.”  Kilroy employed a “populist attack” on banks in the last
campaign “because we had a financial crisis,” said Stivers.
“I would argue it didn’t work then. It’s working even less
now.”  He said he wants more financial-services jobs in the area
“because they’re good jobs, they’re clean jobs, they’re good-
paying jobs, they’re jobs you can raise a family on.”  The finance, insurance and real estate industries have
reciprocated by donating $276,000 to his campaign, with $60,000
coming from the employees and political arms of Huntington
Bancshares, JP Morgan and  Nationwide Financial Services Inc. ,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Kilroy’s
biggest source of money is $77,810 from members of Emily’s List,
which works to elect Democratic women who favor abortion rights.
She’s also gotten $10,000 donations from unions such as the
United Steelworkers.  Embracing the Banks  The support the financial industry gets in Columbus cuts
across party lines. While Mayor  Michael Coleman  is a Democrat
like Kilroy, he has cooperated with banks.  As Congress debated the 2008 bailout, Coleman and business
leaders in the city were negotiating with JPMorgan to ensure the
bank maintained its workforce. Coleman joined with Governor  Ted Strickland  and the Chamber of Commerce to assemble a package of
tax incentives to bring some of the jobs from Washington Mutual
Inc. to the city after the collapsed thrift’s branches were
bought by JPMorgan.  Since 2008, the company said it has added more than 2,000
jobs.  “Every time there’s a merger of the company, we’ve picked
up business,” said Michael Stevens, deputy director of the
city’s Department of Development. “The mayor has a great
working relationship with  Jamie Dimon .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patrick O’Connor  in Washington at 
 poconnor14@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Tackett at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net  