-- Australia Seeks Tax Changes on Sukuk: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   M a r i o n   R a e
-- 2010-10-21T02:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/australia-planning-tax-changes-to-promote-sales-of-sukuk-islamic-finance.html
(Corrects interview location of UBS in 14th paragraph and
clarifies Westpac’s product offering is nationwide in 23rd in
the first version of a story published on Oct. 20.)  Australia plans to change laws to
ensure Islamic finance products are taxed fairly as the
government seeks to attract investors from the Middle East and
Asia, paving the way for sukuk sales.  The national taxation board will hold talks next month in
Sydney, Canberra and Melbourne on how to best ensure that
Islamic finance transactions are treated the same as equivalent
non-Islamic deals. The board noted this month that mortgages
that comply with religious principles may lead to stamp duty
being paid twice, as the financier buys the property and then
sells it to his client. Under a conventional mortgage there is
only one sale that attracts the duty.  While Australia’s 365,000-strong Muslim population is 2
percent the size of Malaysia’s, the largest sukuk market, making
the industry more accessible would generate demand, the
 government  has said. Australia is looking to join countries from
Egypt to South Korea in seeking to ease barriers to Shariah-
compliant products and tap the industry’s $1 trillion in assets,
which the Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic Financial Services Board
predicts will reach $1.6 trillion by 2012.  “Islamic finance is a rapidly growing part of the global
financial system and Australia is in an excellent position to
capitalize on that growth,” Assistant Treasurer  Bill Shorten 
said in an e-mail response to questions from Canberra on Oct. 18.
Islamic finance will provide Australia with access to more
offshore capital, he said.  Natural Resources  Australia’s natural resources will provide companies
seeking to sell sukuk with the underlying assets to back the
debt and conform to the religion’s ban on interest, according to
 Zaid Ibrahim & Co. , Malaysia’s biggest law firm.  Middle East money managers are interested in Australia
investments that offer higher yields than most developed markets
as well as potential returns from gains in the currency.
Australia’s dollar advanced 7.1 percent this year against its
counterparts among the Group of 10 currencies, second only to
the yen.  “Australia wants investment from Gulf countries and that’s
the reason they are taking it very seriously,”  Abu Umar Faruq Ahmad , chairman of the Shariah Supervisory Board at the Sydney-
based Islamic Co-Operative Finance Australia Ltd., said in an
interview. “I see a lot of interest from the Gulf,” said Ahmad,
who is also an assistant professor of Islamic finance at Hamdan
Bin Mohammed e-University in Dubai.  There are a small number of companies offering Islamic
financing in Australia, the tax office said this month,
including the Muslim Community Cooperative Australia, a
Melbourne-based mortgage provider, and Islamic Co-Operative
Finance Australia.  ‘Tweak Regulations’  Australia’s tax office will report by June 2011 on how the
government can ensure the industry gets equal level of treatment,
the government said on its  website  on Oct. 13.  “Islamic finance is a booming sector and Australia should
be part of the action,” Trade Minister Simon Crean said on Feb.
12 in Melbourne.  Malaysian law firm  Zaid Ibrahim , which has offices in
Sydney and Melbourne, is advising “a few” Australian companies
on overseas sukuk issuance and Middle East investors looking to
buy Islamic assets in Australia, Chairman  Nik Norzrul Thani  said
in a phone interview on Oct. 18 from Jakarta.  “It’s very important for them to understand that they may
need to tweak regulations a bit to facilitate sustainable
Islamic finance” businesses, said Nik. “An amendment is needed
to create a neutral playing field, and so having tax neutrality
as opposed to tax favoritism.”  Limited Demand  Demand for sukuk will be limited in Australia because the
market is small, according to  George Boubouras , head of
investment strategy at UBS AG’s Australian wealth-management
unit.  “At this stage, it’s not influential, but it’s a structure
that can grow going forward,” he said in an interview from
Melbourne this week.  Global sales of sukuk, which pay asset returns instead of
interest, fell 23 percent to $12 billion in 2010 from the same
period a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Issuance totaled $20.2 billion last year, up from $14.1 billion
in 2008.  Shariah-compliant debt returned 12 percent this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Index , while bonds
in developing markets gained 16 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
 EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The gap between the average yield for global sukuk and the
London interbank offered rate has narrowed 14 basis points this
month to 359, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ  sukuk index. The
spread widened eight basis points yesterday and shrank 109 basis
points so far this year.  Tax Implications  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in
June 2015 has dropped 23 basis points to 2.48 percent this month,
prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc show. The yield
difference with the Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396 percent
sukuk due in November 2014 widened 16 basis points this month to
387. The gap widened 17 basis points yesterday.  Asian Finance Bank Bhd., the Kuala Lumpur-based unit of
Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ, is working with the government in New
South Wales as an advisor for Islamic financial services and
held meetings with Australian government officials,  Mohamed Azahari Kamil , head of the lender, said in an interview
yesterday.  “They are looking at the possibility of all the tax
implications because to develop Islamic finance they have to
ensure tax jurisdiction is much better than the conventional,”
Mohamed Azahari said.  ‘Stimulate Discussion’  To compete with Singapore and Hong Kong as a regional
financial hub, Australia needs fewer rules and lower taxes on
overseas investors and financial institutions, the Australian
Financial Centre Forum said in a Jan. 15 report.  Companies including  Westpac Banking Corp.  are already
offering Shariah-compliant products to tap demand from Islamic
investors for Australian assets.  LM Investment Management Ltd., based in Queensland, started
LM Australian Alif as Australia’s first Shariah-compliant fund,
according to its  website . Westpac Banking began offering
nationwide commodity-trading services targeting Islamic
institutions in February.  Next month’s talks will help the government’s plans to give
Islamic finance providers the same opportunities as conventional
debt buyers as Australia seeks to attract investors from Asia
and the Middle East, Shorten said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 