-- Australia Real Estate Trusts Offer Property Entry at Trough, Investec Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-10-20T01:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/australia-real-estate-trusts-offer-property-entry-at-trough-investec-says.html
Australian real estate investment
trusts  provide investors with an “attractive” entry point at
the bottom of the property cycle, according to Investec Property
Investments.  The  trusts  are in “better shape and significantly de-
risked” after cutting debt and selling overseas investments,
 Angelique de Rauville , London-based managing director of
Investec Property Investments, wrote in an emailed report. The
asset manager is a unit of Johannesburg-based  Investec Group ,
which has more than $73 billion under management.  Most Australian real estate trusts including Stockland and
 GPT Group  have returned to profit after exiting money-losing
overseas investments and raising capital following a period of
surging debt costs and plunging property values. The 16-member
 S&P/ASX 200 A-REIT Index  has declined 3.9 percent this year and
remains about two thirds below its February 2007 peak.  ”The rapid freezing of credit markets in late 2008 created
refinancing risk within the sector and historically high gearing
levels were exacerbated by falling property values,” de
Rauville said. Property values now may be close to a trough both
domestically and internationally, offering opportunities for
investors, she said.  A-REITs, whose investments now are largely concentrated in
the domestic market, will see high occupancy levels, thanks to a
resilient employment market and minimal development activity in
recent years, she said.  Australian employers added the most workers in eight months
in September, according to a statistics bureau report, and
business confidence stayed near a four-month high in the same
month, a National Bank of Australia Ltd. survey showed.  “However rental growth is typically a late cycle event and
growth rates are likely to remain subdued in the next 12-18
months,” de Rauville said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  