-- Australia Dollar Pullback Will Give Investors Opportunity to Buy, ING Says
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-20T00:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/australia-dollar-pullback-will-give-investors-opportunity-to-buy-ing-says.html
Australia’s dollar may fall to the
low 90 U.S. cent level if the Federal Reserve disappoints
investors looking for extra monetary stimulus, presenting an
opportunity to buy the Aussie, ING Investment Management said.  A decline in Australia’s currency will enable investors to
“reset” wagers on its longer-term appreciation, said  Mark Robertson , a senior portfolio manager at the unit of the biggest
Dutch financial services company. Fed policy makers will
announce roughly $500 billion of Treasury purchases at their
next meeting on Nov. 2-3, and indicate they are ready to buy
more, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said last week.  “There is a lot of expectation built into what the Fed’s
going to do so it wouldn’t be surprising to see some near-term
U.S. dollar strength on perhaps a winding back of some of those
expectations,” said Robertson, who helps oversee the equivalent
of $19 billion as part of a multi-strategies group in Sydney. A
pullback in the Aussie “would be an opportunity to reset the
portfolio with a little more Aussie dollar exposure,” he said.  ING Investment has been “overweight” the Australian
currency since August, said Robertson, who forecasts it may
strengthen to $1.10 over the next 12 to 18 months.  The Australian dollar, which briefly rose above parity with
the U.S. dollar on Oct. 15, traded at 97.11 U.S. cents as of
11:35 a.m. in Sydney from 96.86 cents in New York yesterday. The
currency has gained 9.9 percent in the past three months.  Fed Purchases  The U.S. dollar has dropped against all 16 of its most-
traded counterparts in the past quarter amid mounting
speculation the Fed will expand a program to purchase Treasuries.
The central bank completed purchases of about $1.7 trillion of
U.S. debt in March.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said yesterday the
central bank will need to buy securities on a large scale
several times to carry out his preferred strategy of aiming to
raise inflation temporarily. Additional Treasury purchases can
lower long-term interest rates, he said.  “There’s still going to be a very large and sustained
increase in the amount of U.S. dollars in circulation, which has
to be Aussie dollar positive,” Robertson said. “The Aussie is
a bit like the price of gold, you don’t know how high it’s going
to go but you just know it’s going higher.”  Gold rose to a record $1,387.35 an ounce on Oct. 14. The
metal will average $1,400 next year, UBS AG analysts wrote in a
report Oct. 18, increasing their forecast from $1,295.  China Rates  Australia’s dollar slid the most since June yesterday after
China unexpectedly raised interest rates, sparking concern
slowing growth in the Asian nation will damp demand for
 commodities . Australia, which is the largest shipper of iron ore
and coal, counts China as its biggest trading partner.  “The rate hike will no doubt be a short-term negative for
local and regional equity markets as it was slightly
unexpected,” Robertson said. “The intentions behind the move
should be seen as supportive of sustainable growth for China
over the long term.”  Robertson forecasts that Australia’s benchmark interest
rates will rise toward 5 and 5.5 percent over the next 12 months.
Governor  Glenn Stevens  raised the key  rate  six times beginning
October 2009 before beginning a five-month pause in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 