-- Australia Dollar Within 2 U.S. Cents of Parity on Outlook for Fed Easing
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-10-21T03:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/australia-dollar-within-two-u-s-cents-of-parity-on-outlook-for-fed-easing.html
Australia’s dollar traded within two
U.S. cents of parity on speculation the Federal Reserve will
inject more money into the world’s largest economy, debasing the
greenback.  The so-called Aussie was within two yen of the highest
since May versus Japan’s currency as Asian stocks advanced and
reports showed China’s gross domestic product grew faster than
economists forecast as inflation accelerated. The New Zealand
dollar weakened after a report showed the nation’s consumer
confidence declined in October.  “For the next two weeks, it’s all about the Fed because
the reality is they’re printing money and they’re targeting the
U.S. dollar,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist at ICAP
Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “We could see the Aussie dollar
bounce over parity and maybe hold there for a good portion of
next year, depending on what the Fed does.”  Australia’s dollar traded at 98.56 U.S. cents as of 1:50
p.m. in Sydney from 98.71 cents in New York yesterday, after
climbing to $1.0004 on Oct. 15, the strongest since the currency
was freely floated in 1983. The Aussie was at 80.09 yen from
80.04 yen, after rising to 81.83 yen on Oct. 7, the highest
since May 17.  New Zealand’s dollar bought 75.25 U.S. cents from 75.50
cents, and was at 61.15 yen from 61.22 yen.  Stocks Gain  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index gained 0.4
percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 1.1 percent.  A Fed regional survey released yesterday showed the U.S.
economy grew at a “modest pace” in September and early October
with little sign of accelerating, adding to speculation the
central bank will take more credit-easing measures to support
growth.  China’s  gross domestic product  grew 9.6 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, topping economists’ median
9.5 percent  estimate . Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent last
month, the statistics bureau said in Beijing. That matched the
median forecast.  “If China’s moving toward sustainable growth that’s not
going to hurt risk appetite,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. “So,
it’s difficult to see it being negative for the Aussie.”  Swaps traders increased to 37 percent the chance the
Reserve Bank of Australia will raise borrowing costs at its next
meeting on Nov. 2, according to a Credit Suisse AG  index , from a
36 percent probability yesterday.  The so-called kiwi dollar fell for the fifth time in six
days after an index compiled by ANZ National Bank Ltd. and Roy
Morgan Research showed New Zealand’s consumer confidence
declined to 113.6 from 116.4 in September.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.5 percent in Australia and 3
percent in New Zealand, compared with 0.1 percent in Japan and
as low as zero in the U.S., attracting investors to the South
Pacific nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades
is that currency market moves will erase profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 