-- Bacon-and-Egg Martini, Squid-Ink Sour to Star at London Bar
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-10-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bacon-and-egg-martini-squid-ink-sour-to-star-at-new-bar-london-food-buzz.html
Chef  Raymond Blanc  is backing the
winners of his TV show “The Restaurant” to open a cocktail bar
with a gastronomic twist. So if you fancy a squid-ink sour or a
bacon-and-egg martini, this may be just the place.  The London Cocktail Club may open as early as the end of
November on the site of Manouche, at 61 Goodge Street. A menu of
canape-style snacks and other food is being devised by Blanc and
fellow two-Michelin-star chef  Shane Osborn .  “We’re just trying to have a bit of fun but the concept is
very now,” said J.J. Goodman, who won with his friend James
Hopkins. The look is being created by  Dtwo , the studio behind
Callooh Callay. “I’ve seen the preliminary designs and they are
mental,” Goodman said. “The theme is contemporary gin
palace.”  The hope is that the London Cocktail Bar may be the first
of a chain of outlets, said David Moore, who co-owns Pied a
Terre with Osborn. The project is also backed by Moore’s fellow
judge on “The Restaurant,”  Sarah Willingham .  Rene Redzepi  is in demand after winning the World’s Best
Restaurant award in London in May for Noma, in Copenhagen. You
might go a long way to meet a more self-effacing master chef.
You don’t have to. He’ll be speaking at the Freemasons’ Hall in
London on the evening of Nov. 12 to promote his book, “Noma:
Time and Place in Nordic Cuisine” (Phaidon). Tickets are
available from  seetickets.com .  The Roux Scholarship opened  applications  for the 2011 award
in the U.K. culinary competition. Aspiring scholars have until
Jan. 31 to apply. Last year’s winner Kenneth Culhane is going to
train at Jean Georges, in New York, as part of his prize.
Hrishikesh Desai, who triumphed in 2009, this month also won the
 Craft Guild of Chefs  National Chef of the Year.  Bar Battu, a good natural-wine bar in the City, is giving
50 percent off food until the end of October. The offer is a bit
hush-hush. You need to book online at  http://www.barbattu.com/ 
and then state “I’m a friend of Bar Battu” in the Special
Requests Box. If you can’t be bothered, you could try calling
and asking for the offer.  St. John Hotel , the new project of chef Fergus Henderson
and his business partner Trevor Gulliver, is scheduled to open
on Dec. 1. Bookings for a room or a meal are being taken on +44-
20-3301-8069. Instead of regular afternoon tea, the restaurant,
off Leicester Square, will serve the Afternoon Bun. “When you
bite it, it reveals itself -- bitter chocolate, prune or
anchovy,” the  website says . “These should be enjoyed with
Champagne. Or tea if you must.”  If you are looking forward to  Heston Blumenthal’s 
restaurant at the Mandarin Oriental, you will need to wait a
little longer. The opening of the Fat Duck chef’s  Dinner by
Heston Blumenthal , at the Mandarin Oriental, has been delayed
until the end of January from Dec. 1.  I’ve been on vacation. While I was away:  Angela Hartnett 
bought her restaurant Murano from  Gordon Ramsay , for whom she
worked for 15 years. She will continue to support the Ramsay-
owned York & Albany until year end. Separately, the Ledbury was
named U.K. Restaurant of the Year at the  National Restaurant
Awards , toppling Fat Duck. Bistrot Bruno Loubet entered the Top
100 at No. 3. Among other newcomers, Bar Boulud placed seventh,
Galvin La Chapelle at 10th and Koffmann’s at 47th.  Electric Cinema  plans an all-night horror-movie show on
Oct. 30. Breakfast baps and chips will be available to those who
can stomach them.  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 