-- Batelco Third-Quarter Profit Drops 24% on Bahrain Competition, India Loss
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-10-20T13:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bahrain-telecom-9-month-profit-drops-17-after-losses-in-indian-operations.html
Bahrain Telecommunications Co.,  the
nation’s largest phone company, posted a 24 percent decline in
third quarter profit on domestic competition and losses from an
 Indian joint venture .  Net income fell to 19.3 million dinars ($51.2 million) from
25.3 million dinars a year earlier, the company known as Batelco
said in a  statement  to the Bahrain bourse today. Revenue slid
less than 1 percent to 85.3 million dinars.  “The competitive environment in the Kingdom due to the
entry of the third mobile operator and ongoing regulatory reform
has created a highly competitive market place,” Chairman  Hamed Bin Abdulla Al-Khalifa  said in an e-mailed statement. “Bahrain
was the only market in Q3 where Batelco experienced an actual
reduction of customers for mobile and broadband services.”  Viva, a unit of Saudi Telecom Co., became Bahrain’s third
mobile-phone company when it started services in March. Manama-
based Batelco also competes for customers in Bahrain with
Kuwait’s Zain, formally known as  Mobile Telecommunications Co. .  Batelco’s mobile customers in Bahrain declined 4 percent
from the second quarter to 836,000, the statement said. Fixed
and wireless broadband subscriptions fell 2 percent in the same
period. The company said it incurred losses from S Tel, its
joint venture in India. It also has operations in Jordan, Yemen,
Egypt and Kuwait.  Expansion Plans  “Sustainable growth can only be realized by careful and
selective acquisitions of new companies,” Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Kaliaropoulos  said in the statement.  Middle Eastern telephone-service providers are expanding
outside their home countries into markets with young and growing
populations, which often have lower penetration rates than in
more developed European or Gulf Arab markets.  Batelco is studying plans to acquire a stake in  Zain Saudi
Arabia , as well as expansion opportunities in North Africa and
Southeast Asia, Kaliaropoulos said Oct. 5.  Batelco  shares  were unchanged at 0.53 dinar in Manama
trading today. They have retreated 10 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 763.2 million dinars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  