-- Bahrain Pre-Election Violence Threatens Kingdom's Push to Revive Economy
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-10-20T21:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bahrain-pre-election-violence-threatens-kingdom-s-push-to-revive-economy.html
Bahrain’s parliamentary elections
this week take place amid tensions between its majority Shiite
Muslims and the ruling Sunni elite as the Persian Gulf country
struggles to recover from the global financial crisis.  The election campaign has been marred by demonstrations,
tire-burnings and clashes between security forces and mostly
Shiite youths hurling stones and Molotov cocktails. While no one
has been killed, several hundred people have been detained
during the protests, which began in mid-August after authorities
arrested 23 opposition activists.  “If we continue on the same path, we will have a broken
economy and political system,” said  Ebrahim Sharif , a former
banker who is one of 146 candidates competing in the Oct. 23
vote. “The government has been successful so far in breaking
street protests. They can’t do that for a long time.”  The troubles come after economic growth slowed and
government revenue fell during the world recession. Moody’s
Investors Service lowered Bahrain’s sovereign credit ratings on
Aug. 23 to A3, its seventh-highest investment grade and the
lowest rating among the six member states of the Gulf Co-
operation Council. The report highlighted “domestic political
tensions” and “elevated regional geopolitical risk.”  “The economy is dependent on foreign investment,” said
 John Sfakianakis , chief economist with Banque Saudi Fransi in
Riyadh. “The political climate and the political conditions in
Bahrain will impact the way the world views Bahrain. It will
have an impact on foreign direct investment and the way you do
business.”  ‘Marginalization’  Shiite Muslims, who make up between 60 percent and 70
percent of Bahraini citizens, say they are disenfranchised by
the government and its Sunni supporters, and are unable to
secure adequate housing or public-sector jobs.  “The people have a legitimate demand in this country,”
said Nabeel Rajab, president of the Bahrain Center for Human
Rights. “There is a marginalization of Shiites.”  Bahrain, home to the U.S. Fifth Fleet, is holding its third
general election since constitutional changes were implemented
in 2001. About 318,000 Bahraini citizens are registered to vote;
more than half the kingdom’s population of about 1 million are
expatriates.  Shiite parties currently hold 17 of the 40 seats in the
legislature, which can only pass laws with the assent of the 40-
seat upper chamber. That body’s members are chosen by the king.
Sheikh  Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa  reinstated the parliament when
he came to power in 1999 after an earlier body was dissolved in
1975.  Sharing Decisions  “The idea behind the election is to make people start
sharing in the political process and sharing decisions,” said
Minister of Justice and Islamic Affairs Sheikh Khalid bin Ali al
Khalifa, in an Oct. 13 interview in Manama, the capital. “Our
system is based on inclusivity.”  Opposition politicians disagree on whether elections will
help resolve tensions. Shiite parties boycotted the  assembly  
from 2002 to 2006, saying the parliament was unrepresentative
and had little effective power. Large opposition parties such as
the Haq Movement, several of whose leaders were arrested in
August, continue to reject the poll.  Bahrain established a reputation starting in the 1970s as a
center for offshore banking. Its financial industry still
contributes 25 percent of gross domestic product, according to
the central bank.  The industry has faced competition in the past decade from
rival centers such as Doha, Abu Dhabi and Dubai, and Moody’s
said it expects this competition to grow. Banks have also been
affected by the financial crisis: The central bank last year
took two Saudi-owned wholesale banks under administration after
they defaulted on loans.  Falling Oil Production  Bahrain’s crude oil production, once the country’s main
revenue earner, peaked in 1970. Domestic oil output dropped 0.5
percent in 2009 to 66.5 million barrels for the year, the
central bank says. That’s about the same amount as neighboring
Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest producer, pumped last year in
an average week.  Economic growth slowed to 3.1 percent in 2009 from 6.3
percent the previous year and 8.4 percent in 2007, the central
bank says. The International Monetary Fund forecasts growth of 4
percent this year. Government revenue fell to 1.7 billion dinars
($4.5 billion) in 2009 from 2.7 billion dinars the previous
year.  The country’s  Economic Development Board  has set out a 20-
year economic plan to provide job training for poorer Bahrainis
and double annual household income in that period. It estimates
this figure was about 15,500 dinars last year but hasn’t
produced data on how wealth is distributed across the island.  Benefitting the People  “Development has to benefit the people,” Kamal Ahmed,
chief operating officer of the EDB, said in an interview. “The
aim is to improve the standard of living for Bahrainis and to
shift from an economy that relies on oil to a productive one.”  Only a 15-minute drive from Manama’s financial district are
the first of the Shiite “villages,” slum neighborhoods of
breezeblock housing covered with anti-government graffiti.  Sharif, 53, who entered politics in 2002 after 22 years in
banking, is campaigning on an anti-corruption ticket. “The
economy is like a runaway train,” said the former vice-
president of  Taib Bank . “We will hit a brick wall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 