-- Bank Bailout Returns 8.2% Beating Treasury Yields
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2010-10-20T14:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bailout-of-wall-street-returns-8-2-profit-to-taxpayers-beating-treasuries.html
The U.S. government’s bailout of
financial firms through the Troubled Asset Relief Program
provided taxpayers with higher returns than yields paid on 30-
year Treasury bonds -- enough money to fund the Securities and
Exchange Commission for the next two decades.  The government has earned $25.2 billion on its investment
of $309 billion in banks and insurance companies, an 8.2 percent
return over two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That beat U.S. Treasuries, high-yield  savings accounts , money-
market funds and certificates of deposit. Investing in the stock
market or gold would have paid off better.  When the government first announced its intention to plow
funds into the nation’s banks in October 2008 to resuscitate the
financial system, many expected it to lose hundreds of billions
of dollars. Two years later TARP’s bank and insurance
investments have made money, and about two-thirds of the funds
have been paid back. Yet Democrats are struggling to turn those
gains into political capital, and the indirect costs of propping
up banks could have longer-term consequences for the economy.  “From the perspective of the taxpayers getting their money
back, TARP has been a great success,” said Todd Petzel, chief
investment officer at New York-based Offit Capital Advisors LLC,
which has more than $5 billion of assets under management. “But
there are other costs as the government made it possible for the
banks to pay back TARP. Those costs can turn out to be larger,
and their legacy could last longer.”  Low Interest Rates  Banks benefited from dozens of other programs instituted by
the  Federal Reserve  and the U.S. Treasury Department during the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, from the
purchase of mortgage-backed securities to the bailout of home-
lending giants  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . The suppression of
interest rates at close to zero for most of the last two years
has also boosted banks’ income, enabling them to borrow money at
almost no cost and lend at higher rates.  Those low rates drove down yields on instruments used by
American savers. U.S. Treasury 30-year bonds yielded an average
of 4.1 percent from Oct. 20, 2008, through yesterday, according
to Bloomberg data. When the price appreciation of the bonds is
taken into account, the return for the two years is 13.9
percent.  Two-year Treasury notes fared even worse. They returned 6.2
percent over two years, yielding less than 1 percent on average.  S&P 500, Gold  Average rates for high-yield savings accounts, which
generally have at least $10,000 in deposits and are insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., have ranged from 0.36
percent to 0.92 percent over the past two years, based on data
from research firm Market Rates Insight in  San Anselmo ,  California . A two-year CD purchased in October 2008 returned 2.8
percent annually, according to Bankrate.com, the  North Palm
Beach , Florida-based  website  that tracks bank products.  Taxable money-market funds, sold by brokerage firms and not
FDIC-insured, offered cumulative returns of 0.5 percent for the
two years beginning September 2008, based on data from
iMoneyNet, a research firm in Westborough,  Massachusetts .  Better performers include the stock market, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gaining 24 percent in the two years
since Oct. 20, 2008. SPDR Gold Trust, a gold exchange-traded
fund, offered a total return of 66 percent, according to
Bloomberg data.  The $25 billion TARP return could fund the SEC for more
than 20 years, based on the agency’s proposed 2011 fiscal year
budget. It could pay for all  farm subsidies  in the U.S. for more
than two years. Bloomberg compiled the TARP data from reports by
the Treasury, FDIC and the Office of the Special  Inspector 
General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  $11 Billion Gain  “I am surprised at the numbers because the consensus
seemed to be we threw good money after bad and wouldn’t get
repaid,” said Jane King, president of Fairfield Financial
Advisors Ltd., a Wellesley, Massachusetts-based fee-only firm
whose clients have $5 million to $10 million in net worth.  The Treasury said in an Oct. 5 report that it expects to
lose about $17 billion on the separate $80 billion TARP payout
to Detroit automakers  General Motors Co . and Chrysler LLC. The
bank and insurance portion of the bailout, which includes $47.5
billion to New York-based  American International Group Inc .,
will probably earn $11 billion in the end, taking expected
losses into account, according to Treasury estimates.  Career-Killer  One of the biggest investments produced one of the best
returns. While New York-based  Citigroup Inc . still hasn’t paid
back $12 billion of the $45 billion it received, Treasury has
already made $8.2 billion, or an 18 percent return, mostly as a
result of selling its stake in the lender at a higher price,
according to data analyzed by Bloomberg.  After collecting repayments, dividends and proceeds from
warrant sales, the government earned a 14 percent return on the
$10 billion it gave  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and a 13 percent
return on the $10 billion that went to  Morgan Stanley . Both
firms are based in New York.  Even with the turnaround on bank and insurance investments,
TARP remains a political career-killer. Some candidates lost
primaries this year in part because they voted for the program,
which was proposed by President  George W. Bush . The Republican
president urged lawmakers to approve it or risk a global
financial calamity. Candidates from both parties who are running
for election in November have been attacked for backing TARP.  That’s because of voters’ dissatisfaction with banks. A
July  poll  by Angus-Reid Public Opinion found that 90 percent of
Americans blame financial institutions for the crisis. The
public also feels the pain of indirect subsidies to the banks,
Offit’s Petzel said.  ‘Wealth Transfer’  One of those subsidies is the $350 billion that savers
forgo each year because  the Fed  keeps  interest rates  near zero,
according to Petzel’s calculations. While banks can borrow at
close to zero from the Fed, they lend to consumers and
corporations at almost 5 percent, or to the Treasury at 2.5
percent, and they get to keep the difference.  “The huge wealth transfer from fixed-income pensioners to
the banks has helped the banks repay TARP,” Petzel said.  The government and the Fed took on more risk than just TARP
during the crisis, which isn’t reflected in the program’s cost,
said Nomi Prins, a former Goldman Sachs managing director and
author of the 2009 book, “It Takes a Pillage: Behind the
Bailouts, Bonuses, and Backroom Deals from  Washington  to  Wall
Street .”  According to Prins’s tally, the money plowed into the
financial system to prop it up peaked at $19.4 trillion. Banks
have benefited from that  cash , which helped keep prices of
mortgage securities, house prices and other assets overvalued,
Prins said in an interview. Even though some of the support has
been withdrawn, part of it will likely be lost, such as the
hundreds of billions of dollars put into Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, she said.  “These are all indirect subsidies the banks got,” Prins
said. “So the TARP gains touted by the Treasury are only true
if you ignore all the other costs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yalman Onaran in Washington at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in  New York  
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;  Rick Levinson  at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 