-- Bank of America Credit Swaps Rise on Mortgage Buyback Concern
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-20T22:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bank-of-america-s-swaps-surge-to-highest-in-15-months-amid-mortage-mess-.html
The cost to protect Bank of America
Corp.’s debt climbed for the second day and earlier reached a 15
month high after the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  joined
with the biggest U.S. bond investors in seeking to force the
lender to buy back soured home loans packaged into securities.  Credit-default swaps on Block Financial LLC, which issues
all of parent Kansas City, Missouri-based H&R Block Inc.’s
corporate public debt, rose to a record, increasing for a
seventh consecutive day, according to data provider CMA.  Debt protection costs for lenders have risen as bondholders
increase pressure on firms to buy back mortgages they originated
before home prices plummeted amid the worst slump since the
1930s. The contracts rose even as a benchmark credit swaps index
signaled greater investor confidence in corporate debt.  “We have seen tremendous widening based on the mortgage
mess that’s happening right now,” said  Rajeev Sharma , a money
manager at First Investors Management Co., who helps oversee
$1.4 billion investment-grade debt in New York. “When things
like this happen, CDS leads cash, and CDS has been widening
tremendously.”  Credit-default swaps on Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America climbed 1.5 basis points to 201.5, after earlier
rising to 212 basis points, according to data provider CMA.  Block Financial  The New York Fed joined a group including Pacific
Investment Management Co.,  BlackRock Inc.  and Freddie Mac in a
 letter  to Bank of America and  Bank of New York  Mellon Corp.,
trustee for $47 billion of bonds created by the lender’s
Countrywide Financial Corp. unit, people familiar with the
matter said. Countrywide failed to service loans properly, law
firm Gibbs & Bruns LLP said in a statement that didn’t name the
firms.  Credit-default swaps on Block Financial rose 81.4 basis
points to 820.9, according to CMA. The contracts have climbed
411.6 basis points since Oct. 11. Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded Block Financial one step to Baa2 with a negative
outlook, citing declining volumes on tax returns and the risk of
further losses in  market share  to digital competition. The view
also reflects the potential for increased mortgage repurchases,
Moody’s said.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 2.7 basis points to a mid-price of 97.4, as of 5:15 p.m. in
New York, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The
index, which gained as much as 1 basis point before falling on
positive earnings reports, is tracking stocks, according to
 Andrew Kuan , senior trader at Primus Asset Management in New
York.  Markit’s benchmark risk index, which typically falls as
investor confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates,
touched the lowest in more than five months on Oct. 13, the data
show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  