-- BOE Leans Toward More Purchases After October's 3-Way Split
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-20T12:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bank-of-england-split-three-ways-on-vote-to-keep-rate-bond-plan-unchanged.html
Bank of England policy makers are
starting to lean towards further emergency  bond purchases  to
shore up the country’s recovery as the government unveils the
biggest budget cuts since World War II.  “Some of the members felt the likelihood that further
monetary stimulus would become necessary in order to meet the
inflation target in the medium term had increased in recent
months,” minutes of this month’s Monetary Policy Committee
showed today. Still, seven of the bank’s nine officials voted
for no policy change.  Adam Posen  demanded more bond purchases
and Andrew Sentance opted for an  interest-rate  increase.  Governor  Mervyn King  yesterday signaled he may be open to
stepping up asset purchases to prevent deflationary pressures
from emerging in the economy. While inflation is still above the
government’s 3 percent limit, the outlook is being clouded by
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s plans to virtually eliminate the
U.K.’s 156 billion-pound ($246 billion) deficit by 2015.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  today outlined
where budget cuts will come from, eliminating 500,000 public
sector jobs and imposing a levy on banks.  “We may be moving toward a situation where more
quantitative easing becomes more likely, but the bank is going
to wait until it has the inflation report in November at the
earliest,” said  George Buckley , an economist at Deutsche Bank
AG in London. “The level of uncertainty in the economy makes it
quite reasonable that we have a split committee.”  Potent Weapon  The  yield  on the 10-year U.K. government bond was at 2.978
percent at 1:21 p.m. in London compared with 2.999 percent
yesterday. The Bank of England voted this month to keep its main
rate at 0.5 percent and bond purchases at 200 billion pounds.
Further purchases would see the Bank of England joining its
Japanese counterparts in stepping up emergency measures. The
 Federal Reserve  has signaled it may also buy more assets to
bolster U.S. growth.  King said in a speech yesterday that some gauges of U.K.
inflation are “extremely subdued” and that monetary policy
remains a “potent weapon.” Posen’s view, expressed in today’s
minutes, is that the current degree of spare capacity “was
sufficiently large that monetary policy could afford to
encourage more rapid growth without risking an undesirable
increase in underlying inflationary pressures.”  Fading Recovery  Sentance has said since June that the economy is strong
enough for the Bank of England to begin a withdrawal of stimulus
by raising rates to tame inflation. According to the minutes, he
argued that by “failing to respond to persistent above-target
inflation, which was forecast to continue for some time, the
committee risked a loss of credibility.”  Economic growth will slow by more than half to 0.5 percent
in the third quarter, after expanding at the fastest pace in
nine years in the three months through June, the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research said today.  “We continue to think that the fading recovery will
persuade the remaining members to sanction more QE, perhaps
early next year,” said Samuel Tombs, U.K. economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London.  For now, the Bank of England’s task is being complicated by
an inflation rate that exceeded the government’s limit for a
seventh month in September, with consumer prices rising 3.1
percent from a year earlier. Niesr said today that the central
bank should refrain from increasing stimulus until next year and
take more time to judge the pace of economic recovery.  Officials are “conscious that the continuing high level of
inflation poses the risk that inflation expectations may move
up,” King said in Dudley, England late yesterday. Still, the
danger that slack in the economy will push price-growth below
the bank’s target is “at least as large.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  