-- Bank of Canada Sees Slower Economic Growth, `Gradual' Stimulus Reduction
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-20T17:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bank-of-canada-sees-slower-growth-gradual-reduction-of-stimulus-program.html
The Bank of Canada cut its economic
outlook for the next five quarters as household spending and
U.S. growth moderate, and said the withdrawal of monetary
stimulus would be “gradual.”  Gross domestic product likely grew 1.6 percent in the third
quarter, less than a July prediction of 2.8 percent, according
to the bank, which also cut its forecasts through the third
quarter of 2011. The so-called core inflation rate will be less
than 2 percent until the fourth quarter of 2012, the quarterly
Monetary Policy Report said.  “This more modest growth profile reflects a more gradual
global recovery and a more subdued profile for household
spending,” Governor  Mark Carney , 45, told reporters today in
Ottawa. The paper released earlier said the outlook “includes a
gradual reduction in monetary stimulus over the projection
horizon, consistent with achieving the inflation target” of 2
percent.  The central bank kept the key borrowing rate at 1 percent
yesterday and trading in overnight index swaps suggest it will
be unchanged for at least six months. Canada joined central
bankers in Brazil, Malaysia and Australia in keeping borrowing
costs unchanged in part to gauge the strength of the global
recovery, even though Canada is benefiting from rising global
demand for commodities.  ‘Carefully Considered’  Today’s report reiterated that any further monetary policy
tightening would be “carefully considered,” and that it will
take an extra year -- until the end of 2012 -- for output to
reach full potential.  “Pushing back the closing of that gap to the end of 2012
suggests to us that there’s a considerable period between now
and when rates will be normalized,” said  Rudy Narvas , a senior
economist with Societe Generale SA in New York. “The Bank of
Canada has a lot of leeway to sit out before it starts raising
rates again.”  Narvas said the central bank may start raising rates again
at the end of the first quarter, after it has a chance to gauge
the effect of U.S. monetary policy on the Canadian currency.  The Canadian dollar strengthened 1 percent C$1.0233 per
U.S. dollar at 12:53 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0336 yesterday,
when it touched C$1.0374, the weakest level since Sept. 23. It
was the biggest one-day gain in seven weeks. One Canadian dollar
buys 97.71 U.S. cents.  Modest Growth  Canada led the Group of Seven nations with three rate
increases this year on signs it was leading the group out of a
global recession. Carney said he’s concerned that “tensions”
between countries over foreign exchange policies may slow the
recovery, and it’s “essential” that China allow more
flexibility in its exchange rate.  The bank repeated yesterday’s announcement that it cut its
forecast for growth next year to 2.3 percent from 2.9 percent,
and for this year to 3 percent from 3.5 percent.  The drivers of Canada’s expansion will rotate to business
investment and exports over the next two years and away from
government stimulus and consumer spending, the bank said.
Investment will contribute 0.9 percentage point to growth next
year, up from 0.3 percent this year, the report said.  The economy has “underlying momentum,” Carney said. When
asked about the drop in third quarter growth he said “I
wouldn’t obsess” about it.  The risks to the inflation outlook are “roughly”
balanced, the bank said. While commodity prices may rise faster
than the bank expects, there could also be a “more pronounced
correction” in the housing market or “persistent” strength in
the Canadian dollar.  Exports will contribute 1.5 percentage points to growth
next year, down from a previous forecast of 1.9 percent, as the
U.S. economy grows 2.3 percent in 2011, less than the 3 percent
July estimate, the bank said.  The bank’s forecast includes an “expectation” there will
be more monetary stimulus in the U.S., Carney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 