-- Bank of America's Swaps Surge to Highest in 15 Months Amid `Mortage Mess'
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-20T17:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bank-of-america-credit-swaps-rise-on-mortgage-buyback-concern.html
The cost to protect Bank of America
Corp.’s debt climbed to the highest in 15 months after the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  joined with the biggest U.S.
bond investors in seeking to force the lender to buy back soured
home loans packaged into securities.  Credit-default swaps on Block Financial LLC, which issues
all of parent Kansas City, Missouri-based H&R Block Inc.’s
corporate public debt, reached a record, climbing for a seventh
consecutive day, according to data provider CMA. Contracts on
Residential Capital LLC and Ally Financial Inc. also rose.  “We have seen tremendous widening based on the mortgage
mess that’s happening right now,” said  Rajeev Sharma , a money
manager at First Investors Management Co., who helps oversee
$1.4 billion investment-grade debt in New York. “When things
like this happen, CDS leads cash, and CDS has been widening
tremendously.”  Debt protection costs for lenders are rising as bondholders
increase pressure on firms to buy back mortgages they originated
before home prices plummeted amid the worst slump since the
1930s. The contracts rose even as a benchmark credit swaps index
signaled greater investor confidence in corporate debt.  Credit-default swaps on Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America climbed 10.1 basis points to 210.1 as 
of 12:55 p.m. in New York, according to CMA.  Block Financial  The New York Fed joined a group including Pacific
Investment Management Co.,  BlackRock Inc.  and Freddie Mac in a
 letter  to Bank of America and  Bank of New York  Mellon Corp.,
trustee for $47 billion of bonds created by the lender’s
Countrywide Financial Corp. unit, people familiar with the
matter said. Countrywide failed to service loans properly, law
firm Gibbs & Bruns LLP said in a statement that didn’t name the
firms.  Credit-default swaps on Block Financial rose 79.4 basis
points to 818.9, according to CMA. The contracts have climbed
409.6 basis points since Oct. 11. Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded Block Financial one step to Baa2 with a negative
outlook, citing declining volumes on tax returns and the risk of
further losses in  market share  to digital competition. The view
also reflects the potential for increased mortgage repurchases,
Moody’s said.  Contracts on Residential Capital increased 10.9 basis
points to 762.2 and those on Ally rose 7 basis points to 463.4,
CMA data show. Swaps on Dallas-based Centex Corp., which  Pulte
Group Inc.  acquired in August 2009 for $3.28 billion, climbed
the most of the homebuilders, adding 37.9 basis points to 314.4,
CMA data show.  ‘Fresh’ on Minds  “The foreclosure issue’s fresh in everybody’s mind,” said
 Mirko Mikelic , a money manager for Fifth Third Asset Management
in Grand Rapids, Michigan, who helps oversee $13 billion of
fixed-income assets. “You can see who still has write-downs;
they need to do more in the larger ones like Bank of America in
their recent results, and their CDS reflect that.”  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 1.7 basis points to a mid-price of 98.5, as of 1:14 p.m. in
New York, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The
index, which gained as much as 1 basis point before falling on
positive earnings reports, is tracking stocks, according to
 Andrew Kuan , senior trader at Primus Asset Management in New
York.  Earnings Surprises  About 84 percent of the 74 companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 stock index that have reported earnings since Oct. 7
have exceeded analyst estimates, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Contracts on New York-based  Morgan Stanley , which reported
a loss of 7 cents a share in the third quarter today, added 4.4
basis points to 175.3, CMA data show.  Markit’s benchmark risk index, which typically falls as
investor confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates,
touched the lowest in more than five months on Oct. 13 at 95.5
basis points and is the highest since Oct. 4, the data show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  