-- Banks Thwarting Stickups in Argentina by Offering Customers Free Accounts
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-20T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/banks-thwarting-stickups-in-argentina-by-offering-customers-free-accounts.html
Carolina Piparo, an eight-months
pregnant Argentine state worker, was shot by robbers who stole
the $20,000 she had just withdrawn from a bank to buy a house.
Her baby died because of the wounds.  The July 20 attack in the city of La Plata spurred the
 central bank  to introduce regulations that take effect this week
to encourage Argentines to use the financial system instead of
paying cash for real estate, cars and other big-ticket items.
Banks must now offer free accounts and, from Nov. 1, charge no
more than 5 pesos ($1.27) on transfers of up to 50,000 pesos.  “This requirement is going to help us protect our
clients,” said  Juan Carlos Nougues , president of  Banco
Supervielle SA . While he was meeting with a Bloomberg reporter
in his downtown Buenos Aires office on Sept. 28, Nougues was
informed that a branch in the capital’s suburbs had just been
robbed. “We have to encourage people to be aware of all the
tools available” in the financial system to reduce crime, he
said.  Robberies of people leaving banks, known as “salideras,”
rose to 4,998 in the first half of this year, 24 percent more
than the 4,012 that took place in the whole of 2009, according
to the office of  Francisco De Narvaez , a congressman for the
Peronismo Federal party that opposes President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ’s Victory Front alliance.  Armed robberies in the country of 42 million totaled
398,361 in 2008, according to the Justice Ministry, which
doesn’t offer comparative data for earlier years.  ‘Crime Map’  De Narvaez’s office maintains an online “ Crime Map ” that
enables citizens to report robberies, suspected drug sales and
rape.  The new measures may not be enough to convince Argentines
to drop their mistrust of banks and overcome their reluctance to
make personal finance information available to tax authorities,
said  Federico Rey-Marino , a bank analyst at Raymond James in
Buenos Aires.  “Argentines are notoriously adverse to bank
transactions,” Rey-Marino said in a Sept. 22 phone interview.
“About 80 percent of all savings are in dollars in Argentina,
some in local banks, some in foreign banks and a lot ‘under the
mattress.’”  About 39 percent of adults in Argentina use banks, compared
with 45 percent in Brazil and 90 percent in European countries,
said Federico Juan, an analyst at  Banca & Riesgo , a Buenos Aires
research company. Bank lending in relation to the size of the
economy is 14 percent in Argentina compared with more than 50
percent in neighboring Brazil, Juan said.  Bank Deposits  Bank deposits in Argentina are equivalent to 23 percent of
gross domestic product compared with 40 percent in Brazil, Juan
said.  Argentines have a “cultural” mistrust of banks thanks to
a history of losing bank savings, said Emilio Lanza, general
manager of the Banco de la Ciudad de Buenos Aires.  In late 1989, the government of President  Carlos Menem 
forced savers to exchange certificates of deposit for 10-year
bonds. Twelve years later, then-Economy Minister Domingo Cavallo
restricted withdrawals from accounts to avoid a run on banks as
the nation defaulted on a record $95 billion of debt.  In January 2002, with Cavallo’s restrictions still in
force, President  Eduardo Duhalde ’s government forced banks to
convert dollar-denominated deposits into pesos at a rate of 1.4
pesos per dollar. Within six months the U.S. currency traded as
high as 3.86 pesos.  ‘Fresh’ Memories  “The memories are still fresh,” said Nestor Walenten,
president of the Buenos Aires-based Argentine Real Estate
Chamber, who estimates 99 percent of home purchases are paid for
in cash.  Taxes are another deterrent to using the financial system,
said Banco Supervielle’s Nougues, who is also president of Banco
Regional de Cuyo SA. Both banks are owned by closely held Grupo
Supervielle. Banco Supervielle is Argentina’s 16th bank in terms
of deposits and Banco Regional de Cuyo 35th, according to
central bank data.  Most electronic transfers and check payments are subject to
a financial transactions tax of 0.6 percent for both payer and
payee. In addition, an underground economy that facilitates
evasion of taxes on income and personal wealth leads to large
amounts of capital being kept away from the financial system and
out of sight of revenue officials, said Nougues.  The surge in salideras and the availability of free
accounts and debit cards has led to some increase in
applications to open accounts, said Banco de la Ciudad’s Lanza.  Prevent Robberies  “We believe free accounts will increase the use of banks
in Argentina,” and help prevent robberies outside banks, Lanza
said in an Oct. 13 telephone interview.  The bank, which is owned by the city of Buenos Aires,
started offering charge-free accounts Sept. 15, before the
central bank resolution took effect. In the first few days,
requests for new accounts rose 50 percent, though the rate has
since dropped off, Lanza said.  Diego Muniz, a spokesman for the Association of Private
Argentine Banks, didn’t return two requests for comment left by
Bloomberg News. Ruben Mattone, a spokesman for the Argentine
Banks Association, declined to comment.  In addition to requiring free accounts, the attack on
Piparo, 34, and the death of her unborn child, who would have
been named Isidro, prompted Congress to enact rules to reduce
crime inside and outside banks. Banks must set up screens that
give more privacy to cashiers and customers, install equipment
that blocks mobile phones and are now legally responsible for
robberies committed outside branches with the connivance of
employees.  “We must ask ourselves why we’ve gotten used to taking
care of ourselves where there are people who should be dedicated
to taking care of us,” Piparo’s brother, Matias,  told reporters 
on Aug. 5. “If we don’t change anything, Isidro’s death will
have been in vain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  