-- FDIC Sued by Bank of America Over Taylor Bean Mortgage Losses
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-10-20T04:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bank-of-america-sues-fdic-over-taylor-bean-mortgage-s-1-75-billion-losses.html
The Federal Insurance Deposit Corp.
was sued by  Bank of America Corp.  over $1.75 billion in investor
losses stemming from an alleged fraud by failed lender Taylor
Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp.  The FDIC has denied claims by Bank of America against
Colonial Bank and another financial institution in receivership
that bought fake mortgages from a Taylor Bean unit, Ocala
Funding LLC, according to a complaint filed Oct. 1 in federal
court in Washington. Bank of America was the trustee for notes
issued by Ocala Funding, according to the complaint.  Ocala financed Taylor Bean’s mortgages, issued debt and
used the proceeds to buy the mortgages, Bank of America said in
the complaint. Ocala then sold the notes to pay off the debt or
buy additional mortgages, according to the compliant.  From 2000 to 2009, Taylor Bean and Colonial Bank schemed to
steal from Taylor Bean’s borrowing facilities to hide liquidity
problems,  Bank of America  said in its complaint. Taylor Bean’s
former chairman was accused by the U.S. in June of helping run a
more than $1.9 billion fraud scheme to deceive financial firms
and the government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program by covering
up shortfalls, the Justice Department said in a statement in
June.  The scheme contributed to the failures of Colonial Bank,
which had been one of the 50 largest U.S. banks, and closely
held Taylor Bean, once one of the largest privately held
mortgage companies in the U.S., the agency said.  David Barr , an FDIC spokesman, didn’t return a voice-mail
message seeking comment after regular business hours yesterday.  The case is Bank of America v FDIC, 10-01681, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 