-- Barnes & Noble's Riggio Agrees to Obtain Board Consent Before Buyout Bid
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-10-20T20:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/barnes-noble-s-riggio-agrees-to-obtain-board-consent-before-buyout-bid.html
Barnes & Noble Inc.  Chairman  Leonard Riggio  agreed to obtain approval from the board before joining a
group to make a bid for the largest U.S. bookstore chain.  Riggio, also the company’s founder, will ensure that if
Barnes & Noble is sold, it will be acquired by the highest
bidder to maximize shareholder value, according a  regulatory
filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Barnes & Noble, based in New York, appointed board members
to a special committee in August to oversee strategic
alternatives that may result in a sale of the company. Riggio,
the largest investor, may be part of a group that bids, the
company also said at the time.  Shareholders voted last month to re-elect Riggio to the
chairman role after a proxy challenge from  Ron Burkle’s  Yucaipa
Cos. to put three people, including Burkle, on the board.
Burkle, the second-largest shareholder, and Riggio have clashed
for a year on strategy as the company tries to keep 700
superstores profitable amid the growing popularity of digital
books.  The agreement allows Riggio to disclose confidential and
trade-secret information to representatives of Peter J. Solomon
Co. and Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP for evaluating participation
in a possible sale of the company, the filing said.  Yucaipa may consider making a bid on the condition that
Riggio agreed to vote for the highest offer, Burkle said in an
interview last month. A spokesman for Yucaipa didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  Barnes & Noble fell 39 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $14.96 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares
have dropped 22 percent this year.  Burkle, who owned about 19 percent of shares as of May 5,
asked the board unsuccessfully in January to increase the amount
that he can own to 37 percent. Yucaipa filed a lawsuit in May to
have the takeover-defense rule overturned. A Delaware judge
upheld the provision on Aug. 12 and a few hours later Yucaipa
filed a proxy to get board seats and raise the share limit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  