-- BASF Raises 2010 Earnings Goal as Markets Extend Recovery
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2010-10-20T07:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/basf-raises-full-year-earnings-forecast-as-markets-boost-third-quarter-net.html
BASF SE , the world’s biggest
chemical maker, raised its profit goal for 2010 after recovering
markets helped lift third-quarter profit beyond analysts’
estimates.  The German company sees a “good business development” in
the fourth quarter, with  full-year  earnings before interest, tax
and special items exceeding 8 billion euros ($11 billion),
Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF said in a statement today.
Revenue is expected to reach 63 billion euros. Analysts
predicted 61.4 billion euros, according to a Bloomberg survey.  BASF is benefiting from higher prices and recovering demand
for its basic petrochemicals and plastics after a spate of
shutdowns in the industry curbed supplies. The company has spent
more than 30 billion euros on acquisitions to diversify its
product offering and expand in faster-growing Asian markets.  “It’s a mixture of overall global growth and their own
efforts in reducing costs,” said  Peter Spengler , an analyst at
DZ Bank AG, with a “buy” rating on BASF. “The biggest growth
driver is their exposure in southeast Asia, especially China.”  Early Release  Analysts including  Norbert Barth  of WestLB had predicted
BASF would announce record earnings in 2010. The company is
scheduled to report detailed figures for the quarter on Oct. 28.  For the third quarter, earnings before interest and tax
increased 77 percent to 2.2 billion euros. Barth of WestLB
estimated about 2 billion euros, flagging the potential for a
“positive earnings surprise” in the quarter.  Analysts  in a
Bloomberg survey had estimated 1.84 billion euros. Sales
increased 23 percent to 15.8 billion euros.  BASF shares climbed 0.8 percent to 51.03 euros as of 9:37
a.m. in Frankfurt. The benchmark DAX index slipped 0.2 percent.  Expansion in China includes a water-treatment and paper-
chemicals plant at its Nanjing site, scheduled to enter
operation in 2012. BASF is also building a $1.4 billion joint
venture plant with China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as
Sinopec.  Demand for chemicals used in auto parts, construction and
plastics is rising, matching growth in the wider economy.
China’s industrial output rose 16.3 percent in the first nine
months of this year.  “The record figures reflect the dynamics in our
businesses, our improved portfolio and operational excellence,”
Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Hambrecht  said in the statement.  Note of Caution  Hambrecht, who will be succeeded by  Kurt Bock  next year,
said the “positive economic development” of recent months may
not necessarily continue at the same pace in 2011, as debt-laden
governments reduce spending and wind down stimulus programs, and
raw material prices remain volatile.  “With commodity markets, they can go down again next year
and then they have to shut down some of their steam crackers,”
said Spengler. “You have to earn the money that you lost last
year. It’s a cyclical business and right now you see the
positive side. It could turn negative very quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  