-- Bat Masterson, Nellie Bly Light Up Battle of U.S. Rail Tycoons
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2010-10-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bat-masterson-nellie-bly-light-up-tale-of-pre-buffett-rail-tycoons-books.html
One high-school summer I did
clerical work at a Wall Street firm and helped with an audit in
the huge bond vault. I counted thousands of certificates, many
of them beautiful old railroad bonds.  Those days came back to me as I read “ Rival Rails : The
Race to Build America’s Greatest Transcontinental Railroad,” a
title as long as a train for a history steeped in the business
side of the industry’s explosive growth after the Civil War.  Author  Walter R. Borneman , who has also written books about
two of the nation’s early wars and President  James K. Polk ,
seems to have researched every mile of track between Chicago and
Los Angeles. The text’s myriad rail lines and towns sometimes
make it read like a train schedule.  Fortunately Borneman focuses on the long rivalry between
Collis P. Huntington, the “insatiable expansionist” leading
the Southern Pacific, and Cyrus K. Holliday, the “visionary
behind the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe.”  The Atlantic states were already well-linked by the time
the transcontinental race began. Huntington and three California
cronies built east from their coast while the Santa Fe crew
worked west from Chicago. The points of conflict were the best
routes. Occasionally rival crews went head-to-head over a vital
piece of ground, such as Colorado’s Royal Gorge, where legendary
sheriff Bat Masterson and his crew backed the Santa Fe.  ‘Give Me Nevada’  Most battles were fought in boardrooms, banks or the
backrooms of Washington, where this unintentionally humorous
exchange took place between Huntington and the Union Pacific’s
Thomas Durant: “‘How dare you try to hog all the continent?’
exploded Huntington. ‘Well, how much do you want?’ demanded
Durant. ‘Give me Nevada,’ Huntington supposedly replied.”  The number of miles of railroad rose to 166,703 by 1890
from 9,000 in 1850. “Chinese ladies of questionable virtue”
came to the West, dubbed “Celestial heroines” by a local
paper. Spikers and iron layers one day had “only sugar and some
bacon almost green with age” for lunch, and they earned the
equivalent of about $54 a day -- some of which doubtless went to
celestial needs.  Borneman describes the impact of the Credit Mobilier
scandal of 1873, in which lawmakers accepted stock in a Union
Pacific company, and the collapse of the banking firm of Jay
Cooke & Co., which had extensive railroad investments.  Overstated Earnings  Most apt for our times is this familiar peccadillo that
emerged from the panic of 1893:  “An audit report claimed that the railroad had overstated
its income by more than $7 million during the preceding four
years. A major portion of the problem stemmed from rebates to
shippers that had been booked into a suspense account as assets
rather than being expensed against their related earnings.”  As the story rolls along, it becomes clear that Borneman is
a big Santa Fe fan. And why not? The line had the top trains, a
big role in reporter Nellie Bly’s round-the-world trip, and the
finest food for travelers on and off its trains, thanks to an
inspired entrepreneur named Fred Harvey whose Harvey Houses and
Harvey girls were well-loved across the country.  Then came the boom in air travel and consolidation and
woeful times for the choo-choo -- until that possible light at
the end of the tunnel earlier this year, Borneman writes, when
“ Warren Buffett  and  Berkshire Hathaway  made a bullish bet on
America’s rails by acquiring the  Burlington Northern Santa Fe .”  “Rival Rails: The Race to Build America’s Greatest
Transcontinental Railroad” is published by  Random House  (406
pages, $28). To order this book in North America, click  here.   ( Jeffrey Burke  is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 