-- Bernanke Beats Schumacher in Korea as Brains Finish First
-- B y   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-10-20T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bernanke-beats-schumacher-in-south-korea-where-brains-always-finish-first.html
Michael Schumacher , Formula One’s
most successful racecar driver, and  Lewis Hamilton , the sport’s
youngest champion, face unlikely competition for the limelight
when they arrive in South Korea for the nation’s inaugural Grand
Prix:  Ben S. Bernanke .  The allure of millionaire drivers, supermodel girlfriends
and racecars hurtling around the Yeongam circuit at speeds
topping 300 kilometers per hour (190 miles per hour) has yet to
capture the country’s imagination. For South Koreans, the real
show this weekend stars the Federal Reserve chairman, French
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  and the World Bank.  While Schumacher fights to regain winning form on the newly
built track in the nation’s southwest, financial leaders from
Group of 20 nations gather 260 kilometers away in the ancient
capital of Gyeongju to tackle capital rules and currency discord.
For South Korea, which produces 500,000  college graduates  every
year and no Formula One drivers, Bernanke is a bigger draw.  “Hosting the G-20 meetings is a significant event for
South Korea because it provides us leverage to raise our status
in the global economy and improve the national brand,” said Lee
Dong Hun, a research fellow who specializes in marketing and
branding at Samsung Economic Research Institute. “Compared with
the G-20 meetings, Formula One is just a sporting event and is
new to Koreans, who are more into baseball and soccer.”  Football, Tennis  Hyundai Motor Co. , South Korea’s largest automaker, agrees.
The Seoul-based company that’s known for family sedans doesn’t
produce cars or components for Formula One, and isn’t sponsoring
the event. Instead, Hyundai will use its Equus limousines and
BlueOn electric cars to chauffer guests attending the meeting of
G-20 leaders, which takes place in Seoul Nov. 11-12 after the
meeting of central bankers and finance ministers.  “Motor sport is just one of the many sports marketing
activities a company can choose from,” Hyundai said in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News. “We are
currently focusing on football such as the World Cup, as we
believe it fits well with our brand strategy and image.”  Kia Motors Corp. , an affiliate of Hyundai, sponsors the
Australian Open tennis tournament and the U.S. National
Basketball Association, said spokesman  Michael Choo .  South Korea is the world’s fifth-largest car producing
nation. Its automakers produced 3.5 million vehicles
domestically last year, according to Korea Automobile
Manufacturers Association.  The country’s drive for economic success is bolstered by
academic achievement, with South Korea ranked No. 2 globally
this year in a Newsweek  survey  on education standards.  Ticket Sales  The Korea Economic Daily reported last week that 50,000
tickets were sold, fewer than half the number available. The
race promoter,  Korea Auto Valley Operation Co. , declined to say
how many had been sold. Tickets for the Singapore Formula One on
Sept. 26 sold out in the week before the race.  “We don’t expect too much on our first attempt at this
event,” said Kim Jae Ho, a spokesman for Korea Auto, adding
that Korea has won the right to hold the race for seven years.
“We hope interest in  F1  racing will increase after this.”  The cheapest tickets for race day on Oct. 24, for
Grandstand J near turns 11 to 13, cost $132, according to the
race organizer. That’s nearly 10 times the average cost of
tickets for baseball and more than double for international
soccer matches in South Korea.  Seats  above Pit Lane and the
start and finishing lines cost $673.  ‘Too Expensive’  The circuit of 18 bends and three straights is located 310
kilometers from Seoul in South Jeolla province. It cost about
340 billion won ($300 million) to build and will generate about
250 billion won annually in economic benefits for South Korea,
according to Korea Auto.  Typhoons bogged down construction and national holidays for
South Korea’s Chuseok thanksgiving in September delayed final
inspection of the track by the Federation Internationale de
l’Automobile, fueling concern it may not have gone ahead.  “I’d love to visit Yeongam to watch the F1,” said Lee
Chong Myung, 20, as he watched a demonstration held by the
Renault Formula One team in Seoul Oct. 3. “I’m not sure if I
can go because the ticket prices are too expensive and the
circuit is too far away.”  President  Lee Myung Bak , who will host the November G-20
meeting, urged South Koreans to help the government make the G-
20 memorable in a nationwide radio address on Oct. 18.  “It is more important than many other international
conferences,” Lee said. He called on people to support the
event with “pride and self-esteem.”  Third-Last Race  While South Korea becomes the fifth Asia country to hold a
Grand Prix, the G-20 meeting is the first for the region.  The Korean Grand Prix is the third-last race of the season.
Red Bull’s  Mark Webber  leads the drivers’ championship with 220
points, 14 points more than teammate  Sebastian Vettel  and
Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso .  “I’m really excited but Koreans are only interested in
cars as a way to get around, not for sport,” Kim Eui Soo, 38, a
touring car racer with the CJ Racing Team in Seoul. “Hosting
Formula One may raise awareness of motor sport in South Korea,
and eventually attract corporate and government support.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  