-- Betfair Said to Get Orders at or Above Mid-Range of Its Initial Offering
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2010-10-20T14:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/betfair-said-to-get-orders-at-or-above-mid-range-of-its-initial-offering.html
Betfair Group Ltd., a British
Internet gaming site, is likely to sell at least 226 million
pounds ($355 million) of shares in its initial public offering,
three people familiar with the talks said.  The banks managing the sale have orders at or above the
middle of the price range for all the stock available, said the
people, who declined to be named because the information is
private. Betfair is poised to start trading on Oct. 22, they
said. The company is offering 18.1 million shares at 11 pounds
to 14 pounds each.  A price at mid-range would give the company an enterprise
value, or the sum of its stock and debt minus cash, of 13.2
times estimated earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization for 2011, one of the people said. The median ratio
for peers including  IG Group Holdings Plc  and  Paddy Power Plc  is
7.6, according to a research report sent to potential investors
by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., one of the IPO managers.  Betfair is selling initial shares at a premium to other
online betting firms as its patented exchange system will allow
the company to benefit more from an expanding global Internet
gaming industry, Goldman Sachs analysts said.  A spokeswoman for Betfair in London declined to comment.
Morgan Stanley, Barclays Plc and Numis Securities Ltd. are also
managing the IPO. The shares in Betfair are being offered by
individual and institutional investors, including management and
board members, and about 35 percent of stock will be tradable
after the IPO, according to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg.  Sales Growth  Betfair , founded in 1999 by  Andrew Black  and  Edward Wray ,
is the largest online betting exchange in the world, processing
more daily transactions than all European stock exchanges
combined, according to Goldman Sachs. Sales at Betfair rose 13
percent to 340.9 million pounds in the year ended April 2010,
while Ebitda fell 24 percent to 53.5 million pounds, it said.  The company is estimated to increase revenue by 16 percent
annually in the three years through 2012, while Ebitda may climb
39 percent a year, Goldman Sachs said, adding that regulation of
the online betting industry in the U.S. and Europe could pose a
risk to growth.  Betfair lost a European Union court challenge in June, to
Dutch rules blocking it from opening its website to gamblers in
the Netherlands.  “Betfair is a premium model and it has done well,” said
Execution Noble Ltd.’s  Geetanjali Sharma . Risks remain as “the
entire sector is under pressure from the changing regulatory
environment,” the London-based analyst said.  The company will have a market value of as much as 1.48
billion pounds after the initial offering, which will make the
stock eligible for inclusion in the FTSE250 Index, it said in a
statement on Oct. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net  