-- BHP, Rio to Hold Talks on Mining Tax, Australian Says
-- B y   M a r i o n   R a e
-- 2010-10-20T23:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bhp-billiton-rio-tinto-to-meet-government-on-mining-tax-australian-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. ,  Rio Tinto Group 
and Xstrata Plc have called a meeting today as they consider
abandoning a mining tax agreement brokered with Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard , the Australian newspaper reported.  Gillard’s decision not to compensate mining companies for
higher state royalties may scupper the deal clinched in July.
Mining companies say the accord applies to all state royalties,
not just those in place when Gillard’s predecessor,  Kevin Rudd ,
first proposed a resources “super profits” tax in May, the
newspaper reported, without saying where it got the information.  Mining companies face a bigger tax burden after the
resources tax kicks in if state governments raise royalty rates,
meaning companies would pay extra in the absence of compensation
from the government for the higher state rate.  Rio Tinto is confident the mining tax deal will be honored
by the government,  Sam Walsh , the head of Rio’s iron ore
business, said in an e-mail today. “It’s not perfect but we
have a deal and we can live with it.”  Higher state royalties won’t be offset by cuts to the
planned 30 percent national levy, Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  said yesterday.  State royalties will be credited under the national mining
tax at levels that applied, or were due to apply, on May 2,
Ferguson said. That would exclude increases that Western
Australia state Premier  Colin Barnett  set for iron ore in June.  Western Australia accounts for 66 percent of Australia’s
exports to China. The state produces 19 percent of the world’s
iron ore, 7 percent of its LNG and 6 percent of its gold.  Gillard’s Pledge  “We’re very confident about it” being implemented from
mid-2012, Infrastructure Minister  Anthony Albanese  told Sky News
today. “We think this is a good tax.”  Gillard pledged in July to set the mining levy at 30
percent, watering down Rudd’s proposed 40 percent resources tax
and ending a standoff with the mining companies.  The government and companies hold differing views on the
deal, Drew Clarke, secretary of the nation’s resources
department, told a Senate committee yesterday.  A policy group set up by the government and chaired by
former BHP Billiton Chairman  Don Argus  will “interpret” the
terms of the deal as it talks to mining companies, Clarke added.  Gillard’s office declined to comment on any further talks
with the mining companies. Amanda Buckley, a spokeswoman for
Melbourne-based BHP, declined to comment when contacted today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  