-- Biggest Ruble Debt Sale Planned Abroad as Currency Sinking: Russia Credit
-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-10-21T10:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/biggest-ruble-debt-sale-planned-abroad-as-currency-sinking-russia-credit.html
Russia is starting its biggest sale
of ruble bonds on international markets in a bet that investors
will see that higher yields and the potential for price gains
compensate for a currency falling to its weakest level in 2010.  OAO RusHydro, the state-owned producer of renewable energy,
began marketing 20 billion rubles ($647 million) of five-year
notes in the first sale of locally-denominated Eurobonds since
March, according to a banker with knowledge of the transaction.
The government may seek as much as $3 billion in its first sale
of ruble securities on overseas markets as early as next month,
Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  said on Sept. 8.  Russia may be enticing to investors with its dollar bonds
yielding an average 207 basis points, or 2.07 percentage points,
over U.S. Treasuries, compared with 153 for Mexico and 187 for
Brazil, JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes show. At the same time, prices on
Russian 10-year dollar bonds climbed since their April issue,
even as the currency dropped, hitting its weakest this year
yesterday against the central bank’s euro-dollar basket, after
policy makers eased controls in the foreign-exchange market.  “This is a good time for this issuance,” said  Ian McCall ,
a director at Argo Capital Management in London, who manages
$500 million of emerging market debt. “Appetite for non-dollar
emerging-markets exposure continues to be strong.”  International bondholders are demanding 25 basis points
less in yield than domestic buyers of ruble bonds, encouraging
Russian companies to sell abroad. That’s the reverse of a month
ago when they were charging 40 basis points more, based on
prices for Russian Agricultural Bank bonds on Bloomberg.  Brazil, Colombia  Investors seeking alternatives to near-zero interest rates
in the U.S., Europe and Japan are spurring governments in
Brazil, Colombia, Chile and the Philippines to sell local-
currency bonds abroad. Emerging-market governments have raised
$2.8 billion through local-currency debt sales on international
markets, the most since 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brazil, which raised taxes on foreign investment twice this
month to help protect exporters from what Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  described as a “currency war,” sold 1 billion reais
($597 million) of bonds due in 2028 yesterday in its first
offering of local currency debt on international markets since
2007.  Russia’s currency has slumped 2.5 percent against the
basket since Oct. 12 as the central bank widened the so-called
floating corridor it uses to guide the ruble, and the price of
oil, Russia’s biggest export earner, dropped to as low as $79
from more than $81. First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  told
reporters in Moscow on Oct. 13 that policy makers are seeking
“increased flexibility” in the exchange rate.  Falling Ruble  The currency slipped 1 percent to 30.9000 per dollar
yesterday, its biggest decline since Sept. 15. The ruble’s 0.7
percent retreat against the dollar in the past three months
through yesterday is the largest among the 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The ruble advanced 0.6 percent
today to 30.7101 by 1:41 p.m. in Moscow.  Economists predict the ruble is set to rebound 7.5 percent
by the end of first quarter of 2011 against the central bank’s
euro-dollar basket, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. Options traders were the least
bearish on the ruble this month since March, with the currency’s
one-month risk reversal rate -- the premium of put options over
calls -- at 1.51 percent today, down from 2.5 percent a month
ago and 6.3 percent in May.  Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, show the ruble strengthening to 30.9350 per dollar in
three months.  Yield Gap  “A ruble Eurobond could be used as an instrument to get
the right currency exposure at the right time,” said  Nikolay Podguzov , the head of fixed-income strategy at Moscow-based VTB
Capital, the investment banking arm of Russia’s second-biggest
lender.  Russian companies have sold a record 635 billion rubles of
bonds this year, a 14 percent increase from the same period last
year and 59 percent more than in 2008, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The average price of ruble-denominated corporate
bonds rose 4.6 percent this year, according to the  MICEXCBI
index  of debt securities traded on the Micex Stock Exchange.  The lack of ruble-denominated government Eurobonds makes it
harder to assess the right price for corporate securities, said
 Max Wolman , who helps manage about $6 billion or emerging-market
debt at Aberdeen Asset Management in London.  ‘No Benchmark’  “There is no benchmark for ruble Eurobonds to be issued
off so no one knows how to price them,” Wolman said in a
telephone interview. “There is no liquidity in the market for
them and the ruble is not an attractive currency at the
moment.”  Implied volatility on one-month dollar-ruble options
climbed to 12.5 percent today from 8.3 percent on Sept. 10, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The measure is still below the 17.4
percent high for the year in May.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell 5 basis
points to 4.251 percent today. The yield on the country’s ruble
notes due in August 2016 was unchanged at 7.14 percent.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell three basis points to
136 yesterday, down from this year’s peak of 217, according to
prices from CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost 2.5 basis points more than contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russian swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  Russian Agricultural Bank, the state-owned lender to the
farming industry, became the first issuer of ruble-denominated
bonds on the international market since the global credit crisis
in March when the Moscow-based company sold 30 billion rubles of
three-year notes to yield 7.5 percent. The yield fell to a low
of 6.557 percent on Oct. 14.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  cleared the way for the  
Finance Ministry  to issue its first ruble Eurobonds by approving
the “basic parameters” of the offering, according to a
statement posted on the government’s website on Oct. 18.  Rally  RusHydro will price its bonds as early as this week at a
yield in the “low 8 percent” area, said a banker with
knowledge of the transaction who declined to be identified
before the deal is completed. That compares with a yield of 8.3
percent on five-year domestic ruble bonds sold on Oct. 19 by OAO
VimpelCom, Russia’s second-biggest mobile phone operator.  RusHydro and VimpelCom are rated BB+ by Standard & Poor’s,
one level below investment grade, and two levels short of the
government and Russian Agricultural Bank’s BBB ranking.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Troika Dialog and OAO Gazprombank are
organizing the sale. Yelena Vishnyakova, spokeswoman for
 RusHydro  is Moscow, declined to comment on the bond sale, citing
a quiet period during investor meetings.  Emerging-market bonds denominated in local currencies have
rallied 52 percent in the past 18 months, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s  GBI-EM Global Diversified  Index. Investors are
becoming more confident as the International Monetary Fund
forecasts developing economies will expand 6.4 percent as a
group next year, almost three times faster than the 2.4 percent
growth in advanced economies.  Russian companies have sold 166.6 billion rubles of local-
currency bonds overseas since the government eased capital
restrictions in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The market is dwarfed by 2.8 trillion rubles of domestic bonds
and $121 billion of foreign-currency bonds issued by companies
in the same period.  “There are so few of them so that when they do come out,
they are popular with investors seeking domestic exposure,”
said  Daniel Feltsman , the vice president of international debt
at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  