-- BlackRock Profit Rises 74% After BGI Acquisition Boosts Assets
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-10-20T20:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/blackrock-profit-rises-74-after-barclays-global-acquisition-boosts-assets.html
BlackRock Inc. , the world’s biggest
money manager, said growth in assets under management will be
curbed into next year by redemptions related to its acquisition
of Barclays Global Investors.  BlackRock, which more than doubled the amount it manages
with the Dec. 1 acquisition of BGI, fell as much as 3.8 percent
in New York after saying clients who previously invested with
both firms withdrew $34.4 billion in third quarter and may
continue to pull out money in the next two quarters. About half
of that amount, or $17 billion, was from one pension fund.  Assets under management rose 9.4 percent to $3.45 trillion
from the previous quarter, helped by the best September for U.S.
stocks in 71 years and $15.6 billion in net deposits, mostly
into fixed-income funds that track indexes. Chief Executive
Officer  Laurence D. Fink  said selling of dollar-based assets may
hurt asset growth into next year as clients seek to invest in
stronger, higher-yielding currencies.  “People thought the cross-selling opportunities would be
immediate and there’d be a huge ramp-up in cross-selling this
year and it didn’t materialize,” said  Greggory Warren , equity
analyst at Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.  Net income  rose 74 percent in the quarter, to $551 million,
or $2.83 a share, from $317 million, or $2.27, a year earlier,
the New York-based company said today in a statement. Excluding
certain one-time costs, BlackRock earned $2.75 a share, compared
with the $2.46 average estimate of  12 analysts  surveyed by
Bloomberg.  ‘Distinct Turn’  Excluding merger-related withdrawals, BlackRock won $50.1
billion in new assets. Fink said today in a conference call for
analysts and investors that he is “very excited” about the
deposits into BlackRock’s funds as the firm is ahead of its
schedule for integrating the unit acquired from Barclays Plc.  “We’ve seen a distinct turn from the first half of the
year,”  Jeffrey Hopson , an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
St. Louis, said in an interview. Hopson  expected  BlackRock to
earn $2.39 a share, excluding some costs, and rates the stock
“buy.”  Excluding merger-related withdrawals, BlackRock gathered
$25.9 billion in deposits into its equity index products during
the quarter. Investors removed $4.3 billion from actively
managed stock funds and merger-related withdrawals were $30.5
billion during the quarter. Fixed-income funds attracted $26.7
billion, mainly into index products, while merger-related
withdrawals were $3.1 billion.  September Gain  Revenue rose 84 percent to $2.09 billion, driven by a near
doubling of fees that BlackRock earns for managing assets and
performance fees for beating certain benchmarks. Expenses rose
77 percent to $1.39 billion, as compensation and administrative
costs increased.  BlackRock declined $5.12, or 2.9 percent, to $169.51 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, bringing
losses this year to 27 percent. The 201-member Russell 1000
Financial Services Index rose 1.2 percent and is up 2.4 percent
since the start of the year.  BlackRock had gained 16 percent through yesterday since
Sept. 14, when Fink said the firm was seeing “very strong”
client deposits.  “A lot of the good news that came out in today’s results
was already baked into the stock,” said Morningstar’s Warren.
“The stock got ahead of itself.”  BlackRock was co-founded by Fink in 1988 as a fixed-income
firm and has expanded through a series of acquisitions.  Foreclosure Freeze  In 2005, BlackRock bought State Street Research &
Management to add more stock, real estate and hedge funds. In
2006, it expanded its equity business with the purchase of
Merrill Lynch & Co.’s money-management unit. In 2008, the firm
acquired a division of Quellos Group LLC to add hedge-fund
assets. The Dec. 1 purchase of BGI was its largest takeover.  BlackRock, the biggest manager of fixed-income assets in
the world, is part of a group of investors seeking to force Bank
of America Corp. to buy back bad home loans packaged into
securities. Pacific Investment Management Co. and the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York have joined BlackRock in pushing for
relief following a foreclosure freeze this past month.  BlackRock’s most important job is to look out for investors
who bought mortgage securities, Fink said today. He declined to
comment on BlackRock’s involvement in asking lenders to
repurchase bad loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 