-- Bonds Surge as Fernandez Taps Soy Revenue to Repay Debt: Argentina Credit
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-10-20T20:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bonds-surge-as-fernandez-taps-soy-revenue-to-repay-debt-argentina-credit.html
Argentine bonds are posting the
second-biggest monthly gain in emerging markets after Ecuador as
surging soy exports bolster the central bank reserves President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  uses to repay debt.  The South American country’s dollar bonds returned 7
percent this month, the biggest advance after Ecuador’s 15
percent gain, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s benchmark
EMBI+ index.  A record 55-million metric ton soybean harvest helped push
 reserves  up 8 percent this year to $51.7 billion, an all-time
high. Soy exports, the largest source of dollar inflows, may
rise $700 million this year to $8.4 billion, said Gustavo Lopez,
a former director of the government’s agricultural markets
office who is now an analyst at  Agritrend SA . Fernandez took
$5.9 billion of reserves this year to pay bondholders and plans
to use another $7.5 billion in 2011.  “Higher exports due to larger harvests and higher prices
extend the horizon of the current account and allow you to
continue to tap reserves,” said Marina Dal Poggetto, a partner
at Estudio Bein & Asociados, a Buenos Aires research company
founded by former Deputy Economy Minister  Miguel Bein .  Revenue  from Argentine commodity exports, including
soybeans, corn, wheat and sunflower seeds, will increase 8
percent to $28 billion during the 2011 harvest, Agritrend’s
Lopez said in an interview in Buenos Aires.  Corn prices rose to a two-year high last week of $5.88 a
bushel, while soybeans climbed to $12.145, a 16-month high, on
the Chicago Board of Trade. Argentina is the world’s second-
biggest corn exporter after the U.S. and the third-largest soy
exporter.  ‘Constructive Elements’  The 2010-2011 corn harvest, which is being planted in
Argentina, will reach a record 26 million tons, Agricultural
Undersecretary Oscar Solis said Oct. 4.  “Good harvest and high prices are constructive elements as
never seen before,” said  Guillermo Nielsen , a former finance
secretary who oversaw Argentina’s defaulted debt exchange in
2005 and is now a consultant in Buenos Aires.  Policy makers finance these reserve purchases by issuing
local debt paying about 12 percent to 14 percent, above the
official inflation rate of 11.1 percent, according to  Miguel Kiguel , the 56-year-old former finance undersecretary who runs
research company Econviews, said in a phone interview from
Buenos Aires.  Paying debt with reserves also fuels inflation by freeing
up budget money for other uses, said  Claudio Loser , a former
International Monetary Fund official, in a Sept. 22 interview.  GDP Warrants  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy fell 0.18 cent to 12.33 at 4:12 p.m. New York time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Argentina’s economy
will expand 9.5 percent this year, the most since 1992,
according to the central bank.  The peso dropped 0.1 percent today to 3.959 per U.S.
dollar.  The  cost  of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps climbed 16 basis points
yesterday to 748, according to data provider CMA. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Arcor SAIC, the country’s biggest candy maker, plans to
sell $200 million of overseas bonds due in 2017, Fitch Ratings
Inc. said Oct. 18.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened eight basis points to
611 today, according to JPMorgan. It is down from 846 on July 1.
Argentine debt is the highest yielding in JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index
after Venezuela and Ecuador.  Argentine bonds will extend their rally after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled more so-called
quantitative easing is likely, boosting demand for higher-
yielding emerging-market assets, Nielsen said.  “Global liquidity lowers the yields on bonds, which means
your capacity to fund yourself extends over time,” said Estudio
Bein’s Dal Poggetto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  