-- Bonds Face New Negativity in a Ballot-Box Backlash: Joe Mysak
-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 2010-10-20T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bonds-face-new-negativity-in-a-ballot-box-backlash-joe-mysak.html
This may be the worst year for bonds
on ballots in two decades.  Americans going to the polls on Nov. 2 will be asked to
vote on congressional representatives, senators, governors,
treasurers, state lawmakers, tax initiatives and $16.8 billion
in municipal bonds.  The voters aren’t happy. The recession was too long and the
recovery too slow. The answer, at least according to the e-mails
I got on a column about New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ’s
decision to cancel a new railroad tunnel under the Hudson River,
is: no, no, no and no.  The people who write e-mails, most of them, liked
Christie’s response to a proposed tunnel whose cost is creeping
higher and higher.  New Jerseyans  would have to foot the bill.
Even non-New Jerseyans say no more taxes. No new borrowing. No
tunnel. No more government. Oh, and another thing? It’s all the
public labor unions’ fault.  The new negativity may extend to those bonds on the
ballots, and that would be a big turnaround. The 2000s were a
record decade for bond approvals, with voters passing almost
$275 billion of the bonds at November elections. In percentage
terms, the 2000s lagged only the 1980s, with voters saying yes
about 81 percent of the time versus 83 percent for the 1980s.  The worst decade for bond approvals was the 1970s, when
voters passed about 49 percent of those they were asked to
consider.  Ghost Towns  Would anyone be surprised if new  borrowing  got a drubbing?
The 2000s was the decade of home ownership, of the boom in the
suburbs beyond the suburbs, celebrated by New York Times
columnist  David Brooks  in his book “On Paradise Drive” in
2004. All those new communities needed roads and schools and
sewers and ballparks, and the people who lived there approved
bonds by the boatload.  Now a lot of those people have lost their properties to
foreclosure, many are unemployed, and even more have seen their
401(k) retirement savings devastated. They’re not feeling so
expansive. No more borrowing!  The approval ratio on bonds has been declining for years
now, perhaps a little slower than most people thought it would.
In 2006, voters approved 88.6 percent of the record $78.6
billion in new borrowing they were asked about. That fell to
83.7 percent in 2007, to 82.1 percent in 2008, and to 77.5
percent in 2009, according to New York-based Ipreo Holdings LLC.
The lowest approval ratio in the past two decades was 40.6
percent in 1990.  Moral Obligations  In the big picture, such expressions of fiscal rectitude
have little impact on the amount states and municipalities
 borrow , which has topped $400 billion in three of the past five
years. Public officials long ago found ways to circumvent the
finicky whims of the voters, with things such as authority-
issued revenue bonds and moral-obligation bonds.  But it’s the thought that counts, and those thoughts are
dark these days, judging from the sometimes anonymous, often
profane e-mailers. The public is finally paying attention to
public finance. If I were a mayor, I wouldn’t champion the
construction of a sports stadium or convention center right now.  People are especially paying attention to public employees’
retirement plans, which some experts predict will bankrupt the
nation. Thanks to the revelation of the $800,000 city manager in
Bell, California, the public is also very concerned with, and
surprised by, the salaries made by everyone from government
administrators to firefighters.  Government Backlash  The backlash against state- and local-government workers
probably began at some point last year, when people realized
that, for all the wailing politicians were doing about  firing 
employees, they weren’t following through. For their part, many
of the unions representing these workers proved tone-deaf,
resistant to concession.  That means the battle is joined. Shrinking government may
be impossible at the federal level. At the state and local
level, there’s going to be a brawl.  In the meantime, voters will have their say on $16.8
billion in bonds. My bet the answer will be no, no, no and no.  ( Joe Mysak  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  