-- Bonds in South Africa Climb on Speculation the Central Bank May Lower Rate
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-20T11:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bonds-in-south-africa-gain-on-speculation-the-central-bank-may-lower-rate.html
South African government bonds rose,
pushing yields to a three-day low, as analysts speculated the
central bank may cut its main interest rate, boosting the appeal
of securities that pay a fixed return.  The benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015 rose
24 cents to 125.99 rand by 12:42 p.m. in Johannesburg. The move
reduced the yield by six basis points to 7.11 percent, the
lowest since Oct. 18.  Reserve  Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said yesterday she
expects monetary policy to remain “relatively accommodative for
some time” as the strength of the rand helps contain inflation.
The rand has surged 35 percent against the dollar since the
start of 2009, reducing the cost of fuel and other imports and
helping to keep inflation within the central bank’s 3 percent to
6 percent target range since February.  “South African bonds still offer pretty good value -- they
offer high yields and there’s still a chance of another
interest-rate cut,” said  Vivienne Taberer , a Cape Town-based
portfolio manager who helps manage about $70 billion at  Investec
Asset Management . “There’s about a 50 percent chance we could
get another 50 basis-point cut at the next meeting.”  South Africa’s monetary policy makers have lowered their
benchmark interest rate eight times since December 2008 to a
record low 6 percent, helping to stimulate economic growth.
Near-zero interest rates in developed nations have encouraged
inflows into higher-yielding emerging markets, leading to
appreciation of their currencies and undermining export
competitiveness.  ‘Overvalued’ Rand  The rate cuts have reduced the yield advantage of South
Africa equities without stopping inflows. Foreign investors
have purchased a net 90.42 billion rand ($13.21 billion) of the
country’s stocks and bonds this year, according to data from the
JSE Ltd., which runs the stock and bond exchanges.  Marcus said yesterday there was “no doubt” the rand is
“overvalued” given South Africa’s economic fundamentals. The
nation’s  economic growth  slowed to 3.2 percent in the second
quarter, less than half the 7 percent rate the Finance Ministry
says is needed over 20 years to remedy the more than 25 percent
jobless rate.  “Given the state of the economy and the strength of the
rand, there is room to go lower on rates,” said Taberer.
“Unemployment is South Africa’s biggest challenge.”  The rand gained 0.1 percent to 6.9475 per dollar, from a
previous close of 6.9568. Against the euro, the rand lost 0.1
percent to 9.6196.  FRAs, or forward-rates agreements, showed money-market
investors pared bets the  Reserve Bank  will lower its 6 percent
benchmark rate when it announces its next decision on Nov. 18.
The cost of  three-month contracts for cash in three months  rose
1.5 basis points to 5.73 percent. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  