-- Western Asset Dumps Short-Term Debt Seeing Carney Rate Rise: Canada Credit
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-20T19:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bond-market-underestimates-rate-rises-western-s-marki-says-canada-credit.html
Bond investors are failing to
adequately price in Bank of Canada interest rate increases, says
 Frederick Marki , a money manager at  Western Asset Management
Co.,  which runs about $457 billion in fixed-income funds.  The central bank, which held its overnight target at 1
percent yesterday and said any further tightening would be
“carefully considered,” will double the rate to 2 percent by
September, Marki said. The one-year overnight swap, a measure of
the average central bank rate predicted by investors, slumped to
1.12 percent yesterday, from as high as 1.32 percent last month,
before climbing to 1.13 percent today. That suggests investors
are paring bets on rate increases.  “A reacceleration of the manufacturing sector is in the
cards for next year, and I think that’s going to give the Bank
of Canada lots of reasons to want to get more neutral,” Marki
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto office. “We
certainly don’t see Canada having the same problems we’re seeing
in the U.S.”  The Bank of Canada raised its benchmark rate three times
this year while the U.S. Federal Reserve kept its equivalent at
a record-low 0.25 percent. The U.S. unemployment rate stood at
9.6 percent last month, compared with 8 percent for Canada,
which has regained all the jobs it lost during the recession.  Canada’s central bank yesterday reduced its outlook for
global economic growth and said the Canadian economy should
reach full capacity at the end of 2012, rather than the
beginning of that year as the bank had forecast in July.  ‘Modest Growth’  “This more modest growth profile reflects a more gradual
global recovery and a more subdued profile for household
spending,” Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  told reporters
today in Ottawa.  Even if recovery is delayed, the Bank of Canada will want
to move to a “neutral” stance 12 to 18 months before then,
said Marki, who manages C$1.5 billion ($1.46 billion) in
Canadian bonds from Pasadena, California. Western is a unit of
Legg Mason Inc.  A benchmark interest rate of 2 percent would still be
“just approaching neutral” based on inflation and economic
output, said Marki, who is paring holdings of two-year
government bonds.  Elsewhere in credit markets, relative yields on Canadian
corporate debt over federal benchmarks widened today to 143
basis points, or 1.43 percentage points, from 142 basis points
the day before, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
Corporate spreads have ranged between 154 basis points in June
and 114 basis points in January since the start of the year.  Relative corporate yields in the U.S. stood at 182 basis
points, and at 168 basis points for a broad index of global
corporate bonds, Merrill Lynch data showed.  Provinces Rally  Corporate bonds in Canada, with a par value of about C$278
billion, have returned 0.5 percent this month, according to the
Merrill Lynch data, compared with 0.16 percent for U.S.
corporate bonds and 0.18 percent for global corporates. Canadian
corporate yields ended yesterday at 3.54 percent, the lowest
since the Merrill data begins in June 1992. That compares with
U.S. corporate yields at 3.62 percent and 3.41 percent for
global corporates on Oct. 18.  Canada’s provincial bond market, with about C$458 billion
outstanding, yielded 55 basis points over federal benchmarks
yesterday, from 54 basis points the day before. Spreads were as
narrow as 39 basis points in January. Merrill’s index of
Canadian provincial bonds is up 0.21 percent this month,
compared with the 0.1 percent decline in its index of Canadian
government bonds. Yields on the provincial index fell to 2.9
percent yesterday. A gauge of U.S. municipal bonds yielded 3.7
percent.  Government Debt  Annual inflation probably accelerated in September, with the
Canada’s consumer price index rising to 1.9 percent, from 1.7
percent the previous month, according to the median of 14
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Statistics Canada releases the
data on Oct. 22 at 7 a.m. in Ottawa.  In government bond markets, the yield on the benchmark two-
year Canadian government bond fell 8 basis points yesterday, the
most in six weeks, while the 10-year bond’s yield dropped 5
basis points. Today, the two-year bond’s yield rebounded 2 basis
points to 1.36 percent, while the 10-year bond’s yield rose 2
basis points to 2.73 percent.  Through yesterday, a Merrill Lynch index of Canadian
federal government bonds had returned 7.6 percent on the year,
compared with 9 percent for its U.S. equivalent.  Marki’s funds are reducing their holdings in short-term
government bonds such as two-year notes, reflecting his view
that interest rates are poised to rise next year, he said.  International Demand  “Our position is to be neutral to somewhat underweight
duration,” while buying 10-year bonds, he said in an Oct. 15
interview. He said a 1-percentage-point interest rate increase
is still the most likely scenario, even with the central bank’s
announcement yesterday.  Much of the pressure on Canadian bond yields is coming
from foreign investors, Marki said. Non-Canadian investors have
put a net C$10.8 billion into the Canadian bond market this year
through August,  Statistics Canada  said this week. Net
international flows into Canadian bonds have been positive for
20 straight months, the longest streak in records dating to
1988.  “When looking for safety, Canada provides a higher yield
than U.S. comparable-maturity securities, and there are still
expectations of a higher currency,” Marki said in a second
interview by telephone yesterday.  Economists forecast the target rate for overnight loans
between commercial banks will rise to 1.75 percent by the third
quarter of 2011; 2 percent by the end of next year and 2.25
percent in the first quarter of 2012, according to median
estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  Consensus Estimates  “We’d be looking at two-year yields 50 basis points higher
if we were pricing in anything close to those consensus
estimates,” said Marki, whose Canadian Core Bond Fund
 outperformed  the DEX Universe Bond Index, 8.1 percent to 7.3
percent, in the year ending Sept. 30.  Yields on the December 2010 bankers acceptances futures,
the most-active contract, fell 6 basis points yesterday to 1.26
percent, the lowest since Sept. 7, indicating traders are
trimming bets on short-term rates, and are “almost completely
pricing out” rate increases at the central bank’s meetings in
December and January, according to  David Love , a trader of
interest-rate derivatives in Montreal at the brokerage Le Groupe
Jitney Inc.  Today, yields on the futures increased 1.5 basis points to
1.27 percent.  Investors may be influenced by the U.S. economic situation
when considering Canadian interest rates, said  Avery Shenfeld ,
chief economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the
country’s fifth-biggest bank.  Lower Bar  “Investors aren’t giving enough recognition to the fact
that the bar the economy has to jump over for the Bank of Canada
to resume rate hikes is much lower than the bar the U.S. has to
achieve,” said Shenfeld, who forecasts the Bank of Canada will
boost the overnight target rate to 1.75 percent by the end of
next year.  It’s not surprising that economists and investors have
diverged in their forecasts, Shenfeld said. Economists tend to
make forecasts and leave them, while investors may make
decisions daily based on economic-data releases.  “An economist will have a broad forecast for economic
conditions which shouldn’t be changing with the latest monthly
number on retail sales,” Shenfeld said. “But the market can
sometimes move a lot, even on forward rates that are well into
the future, based on one month’s numbers.”  The median economist estimate for the overnight target rate
at the end of 2011 is the same as it was in August.  Legg Mason, based in Baltimore, manages C$6 billion in
Canada and about $600 billion overall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 