-- Brazil's Bovespa Stock Index Climbs on Interest-Rate Bets; Real Increases
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-10-20T20:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bovespa-stock-index-futures-rise-on-interest-rate-bets-real-strengthens.html
The  Bovespa  stock index gained on
speculation Brazilian policy makers will leave interest rates
unchanged and U.S. central bankers will take measures to ensure
an economic recovery.  Cosan SA Industria & Comercio , the world’s biggest sugar-
cane processor, advanced as sugar prices jumped.  OGX Petroleo e
Gas Participacoes SA , the oil company controlled by billionaire
 Eike Batista , gained after crude increased.  Vale SA , the world’s
biggest iron ore producer, climbed after Chief Executive Officer
 Roger Agnelli  said it may become the largest nickel producer by
next year.  The Bovespa stock index rose 0.8 percent to 70,404.68.
Forty-four stocks climbed on the index while 22 fell. The gauge
fell the most in 16 weeks yesterday on concern rising borrowing
costs in China will hurt demand for commodities while Brazil’s
attempts to curb currency gains will scare off foreign
investors. The real rose 0.3 percent today to 1.6775 per dollar.  “Everyone’s expecting rates to stay unchanged,”  Eduardo Roche , who helps manage 3 billion reais ($1.8 billion) at Banco
Modal SA in Rio de Janeiro, said in an interview. “Commodities
are strong, so we’ll see if the rebound from yesterday’s selloff
will be sustained.”  Sugar rose to the highest price in eight months in London
and New York on concern about a smaller crop in Brazil, the
largest producer, and as a weaker dollar boosted the appeal of
commodities denominated in the currency. Crude oil advanced from
a two-week low after the dollar dropped.  Sugar, Oil Gain  Brazil’s central bank will probably keep its benchmark
overnight rate unchanged today as slowing global economic growth
and the real’s rally to a two-year high against the dollar help
curb inflation. Brazil’s policy committee, led by central bank
President  Henrique Meirelles , will pause at 10.75 percent for a
second straight meeting, according to all 51 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Cosan climbed 3.4 percent to 26.50 reais. OGX jumped 2.6
percent to 22.28 reais.  The dollar slid the most against the euro since July and
reached a 15-year low versus the yen amid speculation the
Federal Reserve will pump more cash into the economy. The Fed’s
Beige Book business survey today said the U.S. economy grew at a
“modest pace” with little sign of acceleration last month,
fueling speculation central bankers may undertake further
measures to support growth.  ‘Very Good’ Reserves  Vale rose 2.5 percent to 49.30 reais. The Rio de Janeiro-
based company has “very good” nickel reserves and is producing
at full capacity from current assets, Agnelli said today at an
analyst meeting in London. The company expects to start its Onca
Puma nickel mine in Brazil’s Para state before year’s end and
will also begin production at its New Caledonia project at the
beginning of 2011, Agnelli said.  “We can increase our production and we are doing that and
maybe next year we are going to become the largest nickel mining
company in the world,” he said.  Gains in the Bovespa were limited by a drop in steelmakers
on concern rising steel imports will temper price gains and
squeeze profit margins because costs of iron ore and coal are
increasing.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s
second-biggest steelmaker, fell 3.6 percent to 20.03 reais.  Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA , Brazil’s third-biggest steelmaker, sank
2.2 percent to 27.69 reais. Gerdau SA fell 0.3 percent to 20.79
reais.  “The steel sector is going through a very bad moment with
rising imports because prices have always been higher
domestically than abroad,” said Roche. “So companies are
losing market share and margins are getting pressured.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  