-- BP Sued by Groups Seeking Cleanup of Wildlife Habitats
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-20T21:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bp-sued-by-wildlife-groups-over-endangered-species-losses.html
BP Plc  should pay damages and create
a fund to restore wildlife and habitats harmed by the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill, environmental groups said in a lawsuit.  The complaint filed today in federal court in New Orleans
by Defenders of Wildlife, Gulf Restoration Network Inc. and Save
the Manatee Club Inc. alleges that at least 27 federally
protected species inhabiting the Gulf region were harmed by the
worst marine oil spill in U.S. history.  The endangered animals include five types of sea turtle,
four species of whales and Florida’s manatees, which the
environmentalists claim are being harmed, harassed and “taken”
in violation of the U.S. Endangered Species Act because of the
oil spill.  “We wanted to make sure BP was held accountable for damage
to endangered species that’s occurred in the short term and the
long term,’’ Catherine Wannamaker, a lawyer representing the
environmental groups, said in a telephone interview today. “We
weren’t sure that was going to happen’’ without the lawsuit.  Scott Dean, a Houston-based spokesman for BP, declined to
comment.  BP, which is based in London, is still trying to clean up
more than 4.1 million barrels of crude oil spewed into the Gulf
by a damaged subsea well off the Louisiana coast. The spill was
caused by the explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig, under contract to BP, which occurred six months
ago today.  Clogged Marshes  The environmentalists cited concerns about oil still being
found in the Gulf after the runaway well was capped in mid-July
and permanently sealed in September. Oil continues to clog
Louisiana’s marshes and has been found in extensive near-shore
tar mats and ocean-floor sedimentary deposits by scientists
investigating effects of the spill, according to the lawsuit.  “The government wants to believe it’s all over and say the
oil is all cleaned up,’’ Wannamaker said. “But we don’t really
believe that.’’  The lawsuit asks that BP be required to set up a permanent
fund to rehabilitate and restore endangered species and habitat
destroyed by the spill, as well as to continue to clean up
residual oil until all effects of the spill are mitigated.  The case is Defenders of Wildlife v. BP Plc, 2:10-cv-03879,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 