-- Brazil May Keep Rate at 10.75% for Second Meeting as Real Damps Inflation
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-10-20T14:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/brazil-may-keep-rate-at-10-75-for-second-meeting-as-real-damps-inflation.html
Brazil’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  overnight rate  unchanged today as slowing
global economic growth and the real’s rally to a two-year high
against the dollar help curb inflation.  The policy committee, led by bank President  Henrique Meirelles , will pause at 10.75 percent for a second straight
meeting, according to all 51 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  The fastest growth in two decades coupled with the highest
real interest rate among the Group of 20 nations has helped
Latin America’s biggest economy attract a surge of foreign
investment in 2010. At the same time, a slowing global recovery
has offset inflationary pressure from strong domestic demand and
record-low  unemployment , said  Marcelo Salomon , chief Brazil
economist for Barclays Capital in New York.  “The strong real helps a lot,” Salomon said. “It’s
helping offset some of the commodity price jumps.”  Highlighting the effect of a strong real on prices, the
cost of tradable goods and services rose  3.92 percent  in the
year through September, the national statistics agency said,
while in non-tradable goods and services, which aren’t directly
affected by the exchange rate, rose 6.32 percent.  Analysts predict the central bank will raise the Selic rate
to 11.25 percent in April, and then to 11.75 percent in June,
according to the median forecast of about 100 economists in an
Oct. 15 central bank survey.  2010 Outlook  Policy makers held the benchmark rate at 10.75 percent at
their Aug. 31-Sept. 1 meeting, after raising it 200 basis points
this year from a record low 8.75 percent.  Traders are betting that the central bank will need to
raise interest rates as high as 12.25 percent in 2011, according
to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures contracts.  Brazil’s  inflation  rate through mid-October doubled from
the previous month, led by a 1.7 percent jump in food prices,
the national statistics agency said today. Consumer prices as
measured by the IPCA-15 index rose 0.62 percent, taking annual
inflation to 5.03 percent.  Yields on 17 of 23 interest rate future contracts trading
today on Sao Paulo’s BM&F exchange fell, while one rose and five
were unchanged. The yield on the January 2013 contract, the
most-traded, fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 11.69 percent at 10:05 a.m. New York time.  ‘Wait-And-See’  The acceleration in inflation was due to seasonal factors
and which had been anticipated by policy makers, said  Zeina Latif  a senior economist for Latin America at RBS Securities
Inc. in Sao Paulo.  “The central bank will adopt a wait-and-see stance to
assess whether this spike in inflation in temporary,” Latif
said, speaking by phone from Sao Paulo.  Policy makers forecast inflation will slow to 4.6 percent
next year should the benchmark rate remain unchanged at 10.75
percent, according to a Sept. 30 report. The bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points.  In the year through September,  consumer prices  rose 4.7
percent, up from a year-on-year 4.49 percent in August, as  food
costs  climbed.  The central bank estimates the world’s eighth-biggest
economy will grow 7.3 percent this year.  Retail sales  rose a
faster-than-forecast 2 percent in August from a month earlier,
fueled by credit growth and record-low unemployment.  ‘Currency War’  Record-low interest rates in the  U.S. , coupled with signs
of additional easing by the Federal Reserve, helped push
Brazil’s currency to 1.6442 per dollar on Oct. 14, its strongest
since September 2008.  While helping to restrain inflation, the real’s surge
against the dollar also threatens to dent growth as the
country’s goods become less competitive in overseas markets.  In a bid to protect Brazil’s  exports  from what he called a
global “currency war,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  on Oct.
18 raised taxes on foreign inflows for the second time this
month, weakening the currency 0.5 percent yesterday.  In trading today, the real rose 0.5 percent to 1.6743 per
dollar at 10:10 a.m. New York time, boosting its appreciation
since the bank’s Sept. 1 meeting to 4.3 percent, the second-best
performance among seven Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the Mexican peso.  In the first eight months of 2010, Brazil has attracted a
net $34.6 billion into its bond and stock markets, more than
double last year’s total and the most since the central bank
began collecting the data in 1995.  Combating Inflows  Most Latin American economies have sought to address the
effect of this year’s record inflows into emerging markets on
their currencies with a mix of market intervention and by easing
monetary policy.  Peruvian policy makers this month unexpectedly  paused  while
Chile’s central bank slowed the pace of interest rate  increases 
at its October meeting. Further afield, the  Bank of Canada 
yesterday kept rates unchanged after three straight increases.  Economic growth, a stimulative fiscal policy and rising
wages caused by a tight labor market will probably outweigh the
“benign” effects of the strong exchange rate on tradable goods
prices, said  Paulo Leme , chief Latin America economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Miami.  This means inflation is likely to accelerate next year,
Leme said.  “The important thing is that inflation expectations are
diverging from the  target ,” Leme said in a telephone interview.  Goldman Sachs is forecasting consumer price inflation of
5.8 percent in 2011.  Next Administration  Inflation in 2011 will also depend on whether the next
government succeeds in reducing the fiscal deficit as well as
the level of credit growth from public banks, such as the state
development bank, Leme added.  Brazilians vote in a runoff election on Oct. 31 to choose
their next president. Frontrunner  Dilma Rousseff  of the Workers’
Party, a close ally of President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva, won
47 percent of the first-round vote on Oct. 3, while opposition
candidate  Jose Serra  won 33 percent.  Polls show the race tightening. The 62-year-old Rousseff
leads Serra 47 percent to 41 percent, a Datafolha poll published
Oct. 15 said.  The budget deficit widened to 3.38 percent of gross
domestic product in August according to the central bank, from
1.76 percent in September 2008 as the global financial crisis
began.  Serra’s record as governor of Sao Paulo state suggests he
might be more “hawkish” than Rousseff in trying to reduce the
fiscal deficit, Leme said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  