-- Brazil's Economy Levels Off in August, Pushing Interest-Rate Futures Down
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-10-20T16:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/brazil-s-economy-levels-off-in-august-pushing-interest-rate-futures-down.html
Brazil’s economic expansion leveled
off in August, easing bets that central bank policy makers will
be forced to resume interest rate increases early next year to
rein in consumer prices.  Brazil’s seasonally adjusted economic activity index, a
proxy for gross domestic product, was little changed at 139.12
points in August, compared with a revised 139.13 points in July,
the central bank said today on its website. In July the index
rose 0.15 percent from the previous month.  Brazil’s central bank, after raising the overnight rate 2
percentage points earlier this year, will keep the Selic rate
unchanged at 10.75 percent tonight, according to all 51
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Policy makers forecast
inflation will slow to 4.6 percent next year should the rate
remain unchanged, a Sept. 30 central bank report said. In the
same report, the bank said the economy is expanding at a pace
more “consistent with long-term equilibrium.”  “The economic activity figure reinforces an outlook in
which expansion is accommodating after a strong acceleration
until the end of the second quarter,”  Diego Donadio , Latin
America strategist at BNP Paribas in Sao Paulo, said in a phone
interview. “It reduced the conviction inflation may become a
threat for the central bank.”  Yields on interest rate futures contracts due in January
2013, the most traded in Sao Paulo,  extended  their fall today
after the central bank data were published. The contract dropped
0.08 percentage point to 11.66 percent at 12:05 p.m. New York
time.  Still, traders are wagering the central bank will have to
resume interest rate increases early next year as domestic
demand sparks inflation, according to Bloomberg estimates based
on interest rate futures contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andre  Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  