-- British Airways Flight Attendants to Vote on Revised Pay Plan, Union Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-10-20T16:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/british-airways-flight-attendants-to-vote-on-revised-pay-plan-union-says.html
British Airways Plc  issued revised
proposals on pay and staffing levels that will be put to its
12,000 flight attendants in a vote, the Unite union said.  The ballot will be held “as soon as practically possible,”
Unite spokeswoman  Pauline Doyle  said in an e-mail, while
declining to comment on details of the offer. Members voted to
reject what the airline said was its final proposal on July 20.  British Airways cabin staff have walked out on 22 days this
year, grounding flights and forcing Europe’s third-largest
carrier to slash services, use volunteer crews and hire extra
planes. Unite is also suing over the loss of travel benefits for
workers who went on strike during the 20-month dispute.  “Our members will now decide whether this offer meets
their requirements,”  Tony Woodley , Unite’s joint general
secretary, said in a statement posted on the organization’s
website. “Representatives agreed that it is the best that can
be achieved through negotiations in the current climate.”  Unite’s BASSA branch, which represents cabin crew, said in
an e-mail to members that sufficient changes had been made to
the company’s proposals to merit another vote by workers. If the
plan is accepted the dispute will end, it said.  ‘Fair Offer’  “The offer we have made, based on our previous proposals,
is very fair and reasonable and represents a genuine solution to
the remaining issues in this dispute,” London-based British
Airways said in a statement.  Changes to crew levels and pay grades for new recruits have
already delivered “substantial permanent savings,” it said.  British Airways Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  says
the carrier will operate all of its long-haul flights should
flight attendants walk out again.  Walsh said yesterday at a conference in Malta that Unite
was “entirely” to blame for the dispute’s length. The comments
were reported by the Press Association and confirmed by BA.  British Airways stock closed down 0.5 percent at 278.1
pence. It has advanced 49 percent this year for a value of 3.21
billion pounds ($5.1 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  