-- Brown Opens Eight-Point Lead Over EBay's Whitman in California Voter Poll
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-10-21T17:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/brown-leaps-ahead-of-whitman-in-poll-of-california-voters.html
Democrat  Jerry Brown  has opened an
eight-percentage-point lead over Republican  Meg Whitman  in the
race for governor of California, a poll shows, with less than
two weeks until the Nov. 2 election.  Brown tops Whitman 44 percent to 36 percent among likely
voters, the nonpartisan  Public Policy Institute of California 
said. A Sept. 29 poll by the San Francisco-based research group
gave Brown 37 percent of the vote to Whitman’s 38 percent.  “He particularly picked up support among Democrats, women
and Latinos since the last survey,”  Mark Baldassare , the
institute’s president, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“It’s been an eventful few weeks. There have been debates.
There have been allegations. There have been counter-
allegations.”  Brown, 72, who was governor from 1975 to 1983 and is now
attorney general, is vying with Whitman, 54, the former chief
executive officer of  EBay Inc ., to lead the state with the most
people, biggest economy and worst credit rating in the U.S. The
victor will inherit a state climbing out of a $19 billion budget
deficit, with unemployment at 12.4 percent in August.  Both candidates have been touched by scandal over the past
month. A former housekeeper accused Whitman of employing her
even after learning she was in the country illegally. Brown used
the allegation to accuse Whitman, who advocates a crackdown on
undocumented workers, of “talking from both sides of her
mouth.”  Leaked Recording  In an Oct. 12 debate, Brown apologized to Whitman for an
aide’s calling her a “whore” in a leaked recording of a
private conversation he had with campaign staff. Whitman
attacked Brown for “insensitivity to what that word means to
women.”  The poll also said Democratic Senator  Barbara Boxer ’s lead
narrowed over Republican  Carly Fiorina . Boxer has support from
43 percent of likely voters to Fiorina’s 38 percent. Boxer held
a seven-point advantage, 42 percent to 35 percent, in September.  Support fell for the ballot measure to legalize marijuana,
Proposition 19, with 44 percent backing it and 49 percent
against. In September, supporters held the lead, 52 percent to
41 percent. On Oct. 13, U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  warned
that the Justice Department will “vigorously” enforce federal
drug laws even if the initiative passes.  Greenhouse Gases  Favor also waned for a proposition to suspend a state law
requiring reduced greenhouse-gas emissions until California’s
unemployment rate falls to at least 5.5 percent. Only 37 percent
endorse Proposition 23, while 48 percent oppose it. Last month,
43 percent were in favor, 42 percent against.  Support increased slightly for a proposal to let lawmakers
pass a budget with a simple majority, instead of the current
two-thirds. Forty-nine percent back the measure, to 34 percent
against, compared with 48 percent to 35 percent in September.
The two-thirds requirement contributed to a record 100-day delay
in the approval of a budget this year.  Likely voters had an increasingly negative impression of
the Tea Party, with 47 percent viewing it unfavorably and 35
percent favorably. In March, unfavorable views led 37 percent to
34 percent.  The telephone survey of 1,067 likely voters conducted Oct.
10-17 has a margin for error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 