-- BSkyB May Shift to Service Growth as Subscriber Target Nears
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-10-20T23:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/bskyb-target-of-murdoch-may-shift-to-services-as-subscriber-goal-nears.html
British Sky Broadcasting Plc  may
have moved closer to a year-end target of 10 million subscribers
last quarter, setting the company up for a strategy shift to
sell more products to existing customers.  The U.K.’s biggest pay-TV operator may report tomorrow a
net gain of 69,000 customers for the three months through
September, taking it to a total of 9.93 million subscribers,
according to five analysts in a survey supplied by BSkyB.  “We are going to hit the target in the Christmas quarter
this year, that’s for sure,” said  Nick Bell , an analyst at
Jefferies International Ltd. in London. “Then you will see a
slight shift in the priority of the group away from just driving
the subscriber growth towards selling more products into the
base that they already have.”  BSkyB’s growth spurred  Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp.’s to
make a 7.8 billion-pound bid ($12.3 billion) for the rest of the
company as it seeks access to the broadcaster’s increasing cash
flows. News Corp., the owner of the Wall Street Journal, is in
the process of seeking regulatory approval.  When  James Murdoch , Rupert’s son and a former chief
executive officer of BSkyB, announced the 10 million client
target in August 2004, the stock had its largest ever drop as
investors fretted that investment costs would weigh on earnings.  Tomorrow, BSkyB will probably say earnings before interest
and taxes, excluding one-time items, rose 22 percent to 242
million pounds in the fiscal first quarter, according to the
average estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales
may have increased 7.9 percent to 1.49 billion pounds, driven by
demand for high-definition television services.  ‘New Standard’  High-definition is “establishing itself as the new
standard” for television, Chief Executive Officer  Jeremy Darroch  said in July.  BSkyB had 7.4 million subscribers when the 10 million
target was announced in 2004. The company is unlikely to
announce a further customer goal after 2010 as the pay-
television market matures, said  Patrick Yau , an analyst at KBC
Peel Hunt in London.  “They will shy away from setting a new target for
growth,” Yau said. “It’s going to be very hard for them to
push brand new subscribers to their services. The game is to
make better use of their marketing database.”  A BSkyB spokeswoman declined to comment on whether the
company will set a new subscriber target and change its
strategy.  Sales Potential  Only one in five customers so far takes television,
broadband and telephone services, BSkyB said in July.  “HD has taken over and now they’ve started to market 3D,
which they very rightly see as being a massive uplift,”  Mike Jeremy , an analyst at Daniel Stewart Securities, said in an
interview.  Reaching the company’s subscriber target will also help
BSkyB investors to push for a higher bid from News Corp.  “It’s delivered on subscribers, it’s launched 3D, so if
you’re like us and thought that the indicated bid of 700 pence
was an extreme undervaluation of the company, then I think you
would feel strengthened in that view,” said  Stephen Adams , head
of U.K. equities at Aegon Asset Management.  Aegon holds 1.26 percent of BSkyB’s stock, according to
Bloomberg  data .  BSkyB in June rejected News Corp.’s offer of 700 pence a
share. The independent directors, led by  Nicholas Ferguson ,
chairman of SVG Capital, said they may accept an offer of more
than 800 pence a share. There is a “significant gap” between
News Corp.’s proposal and the company’s value, Ferguson said.  Increasing Competition  Winning new subscribers is also set to become more
difficult as BSkyB faces more competition from phone company  BT
Group Plc  and public broadcaster  British Broadcasting Corp.  The
two companies and partners won regulatory approval to start an
Internet-television platform, which may compete with BSkyB’s
television offering.  The venture, to be named “YouView,” will build an open
Internet-connected on-demand television service and is scheduled
to start in mid-2011.  “The market is about to become more competitive just at
the point that Sky is breaking through to that 10 million
mark,” Daniel Stewart’s  Jeremy  said. “The shareholder move is
timely because you get the sense that you are at the start of a
big change in the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 