-- Buy China Stocks on `Dips' After Interest Rate Boost, Goldman Sachs Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-20T08:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/buy-china-stocks-on-dips-after-interest-rate-boost-goldman-sachs-says.html
Investors should buy  Chinese stocks 
on any “dips” following an interest-rate increase in the
nation, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said. Higher rates are a
“positive” signal for equities, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  The central bank yesterday unexpectedly raised borrowing
costs for the first time since 2007, lifting the benchmark one-
year lending rate to 5.56 percent from 5.31 percent. The deposit
rate was increased to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent.  “We would buy into any major market dips for the medium to
longer-term upside as we believe that earnings are solid,
valuations are reasonable and the rate hike could actually
remove a risk overhang,” Goldman Sachs analysts including  Helen Zhu  and  Timothy Moe  wrote in a report. Market declines after
previous rate increases were “short-lived, if any,” they wrote.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  gained 0.1 percent to close at
3,003.95 today, reversing an earlier 2 percent loss. The
benchmark gauge has surged 13 percent this month after lagging
behind other emerging markets and as a higher yuan drew
increased capital inflows.  China’s policy makers are trying to curb lending and
prevent an asset-price bubble in a country that surpassed Japan
this year as the world’s second-largest economy.  Wang Tao , head of China economic research at UBS AG, said
investors’ initial reaction to the surprise rate increase was
likely to be negative, especially for property developers.  “However, in general, we think the market should see the
rate hike as a speed bump on the road,” Wang said in a report.
“It also reflects the government’s confidence in the strength
of economic activity.”  ‘Hot Money’  The rate increase will raise expectations for an
appreciation in the yuan and encourage more inflows of “hot
money,” Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. analysts led by  Li Huiyong  said in a report. Yuan-denominated assets become more
attractive and the decision indicates confidence among policy
makers on the strength of the economy, Citic Securities Co. said.  China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four
months in September, while industrial output rose 13.9 percent
in August, exceeding economists’ estimates. Citing the economy’s
outlook, Moody’s Investors Service on Oct. 8 put the nation’s
debt rating on review for a possible upgrade.  Ma Jun , head of Hong Kong and China strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG, said higher borrowing costs will hurt the outlook for
developers and commodity producers.  “Rate increases will also be negative for commodities, as
their demand growth is highly sensitive to overall investment
and loan growth,” he said.  China’s interest-rate increase is a “positive signal” for
the nation’s equity market as it supports a view that economic
growth may have bottomed out and is set to recover,  Frank Li  and
Peng Chen, analysts at JPMorgan in Hong Kong, said in a report.  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai,  Chen Shiyin  in Singapore. With
assistance from  Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  