-- Canada's Prime Minister Says Potash Corp. an `American-Controlled' Company
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-20T20:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/canada-s-prime-minister-says-potash-corp-an-american-controlled-company.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said today  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion hostile offer
for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  is a case of an Australian
company buying a U.S. company.  “This is a proposal for an American-controlled company to
be taken over by an Australian-controlled company, and we will
of course review the matter,” Harper said in Parliament in
response to a question from the opposition. “As is required by
law, the government will listen to all sides on the matter and
the government will render a decision according to whether the
transaction is a net benefit to Canada.”  The prime minister was referring to the fact that Canadian
shareholders don’t own a majority of Potash Corp. and the
misconception that the company is still owned by the
Saskatchewan province,  Sara MacIntyre , a spokeswoman for Harper,
said in a telephone interview.  The Liberal Party and the New Democratic Party today urged
Harper to reject the BHP bid and NDP Leader  Jack Layton  called
Potash Corp. a “Canadian jewel.” Under the  Investment Canada
Act , the Harper government can block transactions if it finds
they don’t provide a “net benefit” to the country.  “It matters not who’s taking over whom,” Layton told
reporters in Ottawa today. “It matters whether under the law
net benefits to Canada are flowing and that clearly has not been
happening in some very significant takeovers.”  Potash Shareholders  Potash Corp.’s Canadian shareholders own 49 percent of the
company, while U.S. investors own 38 percent of the shares and
investors from other countries hold the rest, according to a
Conference Board of Canada  report  prepared for Saskatchewan.  “The ownership would change from a widely held North
American company to a widely held global company,” the report
said. “The senior management would change from American
dominated to Australian/South African/British dominated.”  The Saskatchewan cabinet will meet today to make a final
decision on how it will advise the Canadian government on the
transaction, Premier  Brad Wall  told reporters in Regina, the
provincial capital.  Canada’s federal government has until Nov. 3 to block the
bid, unless BHP agrees to an extension of the review.  Potash Corp., which is based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan,
has rejected BHP’s offer  as too low  and said it’s seeking
alternative offers amid rising prices for agricultural
commodities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 