-- Canadian Dollar Gains as Risk Demand Emerges, Central Bank Trims Outlook
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-20T21:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/canada-s-dollar-strengthens-for-first-day-in-five-after-dropping-3-percent.html
Canada’s dollar climbed against its
U.S. counterpart for the first time in five days amid rising
equities and raw material prices that suggest greater demand for
risk assets.  The Bank of Canada cut its economic outlook and said the
withdrawal of monetary stimulus would be “gradual.” The
Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie, dropped 3 percent
during the past four sessions after it reached par with the
greenback on Oct. 14 for the first time since April. The U.S.
dollar touched a 15-year low against the yen as a Federal
Reserve regional survey showed the economy expanded in September
at a “modest pace.”  “The Canadian dollar is up on the equity and commodity
rally,”  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York, wrote in an e-mail. “Fundamentals
are being shrugged off.”  The loonie strengthened 1.1 percent C$1.0210 per U.S.
dollar at 5:03 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0336 yesterday, when it
touched C$1.0374, the weakest level since Sept. 23. One Canadian
dollar buys 97.95 U.S. cents.  The MSCI World Index advanced 1.2 percent and the Standard
& Poor’s 500 index rose 1.1 percent. Crude oil futures gained
2.9 percent. Canada’s dollar has the strongest correlation to
swings in equity prices among Group of 10 currencies, Brown
Brothers’ McCormick said.  Greenback Weakness  The U.S. currency is the worst-performing major currency
during the past month on speculation that Fed officials will
signal further measures are needed as part of the central bank’s
quantitative-easing plan to support growth. The currency of
Canada, which ships about two-thirds of its exports to the U.S.,
is the second-worst performer.  The U.S. economy showed little sign of accelerating in
September and October and companies are still hesitant to hire,
the Fed said today in its Beige Book business survey by the 12
regional banks, released two weeks before each meeting of
central bank policy makers.  “The Canadian dollar was an eager participant in letting
the U.S. dollar rally; it has been less eager to participate in
the renewed U.S. dollar sell-off,”  David Watt , senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit in
Toronto, wrote via e-mail. “We are lagging behind the snap-back
in our peers -- a direct consequence of the Bank of Canada.”  Carney Talks  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  told reporters in
Ottawa today there are expectations for more monetary stimulus
from the Fed. He also said he sees additional stimulus from
other advanced economies and that he sees underlying momentum in
the economy.  The central bank left its benchmark interest  rate  at 1
percent yesterday. In its quarterly Monetary Policy Report today
it said gross domestic product likely grew 1.6 percent in the
third quarter, less than a July prediction of 2.8 percent,
according to the bank, which also cut its forecasts through the
third quarter of 2011. The core inflation rate will be less than
2 percent until the fourth quarter of 2012.  The nation’s central bank said yesterday any further
tightening would be “carefully considered” as the economy will
take an extra year to reach its full potential. It cited a
“weaker U.S. outlook,” moderating growth in emerging-market
economies and the likelihood of slowing domestic consumption and
housing markets.  ‘Emerging Downside Risks’  “The Bank of Canada is saying very clearly that it had to
pause due to the litany of emerging downside risks,”  Shaun Osborne  and  Jacqui Douglas , currency strategists at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, wrote in a report to clients
today. “We’re anticipating a C$1.0225 to C$1.0350 range today,
as the U.S. dollar-Canadian dollar pair consolidates around
levels we haven’t seen in about a month.”  Canada’s 10-year government bonds declined, pushing the
yield up five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.76
percent. The 3.5 percent security due in June 2020 fell 44 cents
to C$106.21.  The loonie’s 2 percent intraday drop yesterday was the
sharpest since June 29. Investors today were rethinking the
reaction to the unexpected rise in interest rates from China’s
central bank yesterday, which damped demand for assets related
to economic growth, helping to send the S&P 500 to the biggest
one-day loss in two months and crude oil down more than 4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  