-- Carney's `New Phase' of Recovery May Mean Longer Canada Lending Rate Pause
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-20T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/carney-s-new-phase-of-recovery-may-mean-longer-canada-lending-rate-pause.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
may provide details today about the length of his interest-rate
freeze, a day after he said the recovery was entering a “new
phase” marked by slower-than-expected growth.  The central bank, which kept the key borrowing rate at 1
percent, issues its new  quarterly growth forecasts  at 10:30 a.m.
in Ottawa, followed by a news conference by Carney 45 minutes
later. Policy makers said in their decision yesterday that it
will take an extra year -- until the end of 2012 -- for output
to reach full potential.  By pausing, Carney joined central bankers in Brazil,
Malaysia and Australia in keeping borrowing costs unchanged in
part to gauge the strength of the global recovery, even though
Canada is benefiting from rising world demand for commodities.
Carney, 45, won’t act again until growth picks up next year,
said  Krishen Rangasamy , an economist at CIBC World Markets in
Toronto.  “They are on pause for a long time” is the “main
message,” said Rangasamy, who predicts a May rate increase.
“They are less bullish about the economy.”  Canada led the Group of Seven nations with three rate
increases this year on signs it was leading the countries out of
a global recession. The bank yesterday cut its forecast for
growth this year to 3 percent from 3.5 percent, and to 2.3
percent from 2.9 percent for 2011.  Acceleration Starts  “The question is when the acceleration starts,” said
 Robert Kavcic , a Bank of Montreal economist in Toronto. “If it
was very back-end loaded for 2011 it suggests they would be on
hold for quite some time.”  When the bank moves again also depends on its view of the
global and U.S. recoveries. Growth in the U.S. and other
developed economies will be slower than expected because “of
difficult labor market dynamics and ongoing deleveraging,” the
bank said. Emerging-market growth will also slow as those
countries tighten fiscal and monetary policies, the bank said.  “Before they resume on another hiking cycle they will want
some confirmation the U.S. recovery has some traction,” said
 Pascal Gauthier , an economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in
Toronto. He also said he will look in the report for details on
the composition of Canada’s growth next year and how much comes
from consumer spending.  Yesterday’s statement said that any further tightening
would be “carefully considered” and that “the global economic
recovery is entering a new phase.”  Overnight Index Swaps  The bank may not raise rates again for six months, trading
in overnight index swaps indicated. The rate on the  six-month 
security, a gauge of what investors think the policy rate will
average over that time, was 1.035 percent yesterday, compared
with 1.095 percent on Oct. 18.  Canada’s economy still has “significant excess supply”
and inflation won’t reach the bank’s 2 percent target until the
end of 2012, the bank said yesterday. The current interest rate
leaves “considerable monetary stimulus in place” to reach the
inflation target, the bank said.  “There is no promising economic news in the U.S. and
that’s one of the reasons why virtually every private sector
economist is lowering their projections for growth both in
Ontario and Canada,” Ontario Finance Minister  Dwight Duncan 
told reporters in Ottawa Oct. 19.  The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the loonie, dropped 1.6
percent C$1.0332 per U.S. dollar at 3:11 p.m. in Toronto, after
reaching C$1.0374, the lowest level Sept. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 