-- Catalonia Sells Debt to Citizens After Public Market Lockout: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2010-10-21T11:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/catalonia-sells-debt-to-citizens-after-public-market-lockout-euro-credit.html
Catalonia, Spain’s largest region,
is offering its citizens yields that are almost triple those
paid by the nation as it seeks alternative funds while shut out
of international capital markets.  Catalonia, with a 195 billion-euro ($271 billion) economy
that is larger than Portugal’s, will pay investors 4.75 percent
for as much as 2.5 billion euros of one-year notes, said an
official at the local economy department, citing Catalan economy
chief  Antoni Castells . That compares with the 1.842 percent
Spain paid at a one-year debt auction on Oct. 19 and a secondary
market rate of 6.367 percent for Greek securities maturing next
August.  Even as Spain’s borrowing costs fell by around a third from
the June peak, access to public debt markets remains limited for
regions that together have  105 billion euros  of borrowing. The
regions, whose loans aren’t guaranteed by the Madrid government,
may pose the “greatest risk” to Spain’s finances, Bank of
Spain Governor  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  said on Oct. 5.  Selling debt directly to citizens “obviously reflects they
have a problem getting funding” as the interest charged is
“almost Greek levels,” said  Diego Fernandez , who helps manage
240 million euros at Inverseguros Gestion in Madrid. “The
financing problems in the regions are only just beginning. In
the coming years, we are going to hear a lot about this.”  Financing ‘Challenging’  Moody’s Investors Service said two days ago that borrowing
for the region will remain “challenging” even with Spanish
bonds luring back investors. Catalonia will need to raise 8
billion euros of debt next year, about 30 percent of its 2009
operating income, the New York-based credit rating company
estimates.  Greece’s soaring  budget deficit  and near default led to a
surge in debt costs this year for Europe’s so-called peripheral
countries as investors shunned bonds of the region’s highest-
deficit nations. Spain’s budget shortfall swelled to 11.1
percent of gross domestic product last year, the euro-region’s
third highest after Ireland and Greece. The regions accounted
for 2 percentage points of the gap.  The debt crisis has focused investor attention on the
financial health of the regional governments, which have varying
degrees of autonomy from Madrid and raise funds to finance
services such as education and health care. Catalonia is one of
Spain’s most autonomous regions with its own police and own
language that’s used for education and official business.  Spreads Narrow  While Spain’s borrowing costs have declined since June
after the government announced plans to slash its deficit, the
regions continue to struggle to tap markets, forcing them to
seek alternatives.  The  yield  investors demand to hold 10-year Spanish debt
over comparable German bunds rose to 165.4 basis points today,
compared with 161.8 basis points yesterday and a euro-era high
of 221.2 basis points on June 16. Even with the perceived risk
of Spanish debt waning, investors still demand twice as much to
hold three-month Catalan debt than similar-dated securities
issued by Spain.  Catalonia “is only doing this because it’s short of money
and the debt markets are closed,” said  Robert Tornabell ,
professor of banking at ESADE business school in Barcelona,
adding he prefers to invest in Spanish bonds. “Many people in
the streets are saying it’s incredible that Catalonia is doing
this, they think it’s somehow shameful.”  Rating Downgrade  Catalonia has the biggest debt in nominal terms among the
country’s 17 semi-autonomous regions. It last held a benchmark-
sized bond sale in the public debt markets in March, when it
paid 172.4 basis points more than comparable German government
debt. Its struggle to finance debt contributed to Moody’s
decision to downgrade Catalonia on Oct. 19 to A2 from A1.  The Barcelona-based government turned to Catalan savings
bank  La Caixa  for a private placement of 1 billion euros of
bonds in June and then borrowed another 1 billion euros from
banks in July for four years.  After tapping lenders, the government now competes with
them, with an offer that pays residents more than twice the
current rate on one-year deposits at Barcelona-based savings
bank Caixa Catalunya.  “My mother-in-law actually asked me about them and I told
her I shouldn’t really give her any advice except to say that I
might buy some,” said Cesar Molinas, a Barcelona-born
consultant and former head of European fixed-income strategy at
Merrill Lynch & Co., who plans to buy the bonds. “I think the
yield looks pretty good.”  At Standard & Poor’s, the sale of Catalan bonds to
residents isn’t a threat for the region’s A+ credit rating.  Deficit Cuts  “We know that they have difficulties accessing the
markets, not just Catalonia but all the regions, so they’re
looking for different ways to meet their financing needs,” said
 Myriam Fernandez de Heredia , a senior director at S&P in Madrid.  The regions are key to Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez
Zapatero’s attempt to cut the  deficit  as they employ half of all
public workers and control more spending than the central
government. They plan to have a combined deficit equal to 2.4
percent of GDP this year and 1.3 percent in 2011 and 2012.  When added with the shortfalls of the central government
and social security system, Spain’s  deficit  will be 9.3 percent
of GDP this year, the second largest forecast for the euro
region after Ireland. The government aims to slash the gap to 6
percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  