-- Caterpillar Enlists Suppliers in Targeting 25% Profit Margin
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2010-10-20T20:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/caterpillar-s-oberhelman-enlists-suppliers-in-targeting-25-profit-margin.html
Mike Render , an engineer who has
worked for  Caterpillar Inc.  since the 1970s, has spent the last
three years trying to break with the company’s past.  Render suggested his employer partner with a supplier to
design a component that cuts emissions, rather than dictate
specifications and choose the cheapest vendor. His team ended up
working with 12 counterparts from catalytic-converter
manufacturer  Tenneco Inc.  at Caterpillar’s Mossville, Illinois,
engine center, where they created a mock production line to work
out kinks in the manufacturing process. Output of the component
at a Tenneco plant in Nebraska cut Caterpillar’s costs on the
item by 20 percent.  The collaboration is a cultural shift for Caterpillar,
whose suppliers in the past have complained about a lack of
consultation, said  Stephen Volkmann , an analyst at Jefferies &
Co. in New York.  “It was, ‘Give me what I want when I want it, and the rest
is your issue to manage,’” said Volkmann, who doesn’t own
Caterpillar stock and has a “buy”  rating  on the shares. “The
big change in attitude is from the servant-master relationship
to more of a team-type relationship.”  Tenneco Collaboration  Caterpillar, the largest maker of construction and mining
equipment, expects the Tenneco collaboration to become a
benchmark, says Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman , who
succeeded  Jim Owens  in July. It’s dramatically shrinking the
number of suppliers to 6,000 from 9,000 and working more closely
with 200 companies identified as critical to future growth.  Improving the supply chain is a key piece of Oberhelman’s
strategy to pull 25 cents of profit from each new dollar of
sales as demand in  emerging markets  surges. He plans to apply
engineering and quality-control expertise from suppliers inside
Caterpillar factories to build the company’s signature yellow-
and-black machines more efficiently.  His efforts come at a time when Caterpillar  shares  have
increased 41 percent this year, leading the Dow Jones Industrial
Average for the first time since 1993. That year rising home
construction helped the company become profitable after two
years of losses.  Caterpillar  gained $1.77 to $80.32 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  Caterpillar wasn’t prepared for the last increase in
demand, from 2006 to 2008, and the mistake proved costly.  Sales 
rose 24 percent in that period while profit was little changed
as the company paid more for raw materials and faster delivery
of parts from suppliers.  ‘Better Playbook’  “In the next cycle, Caterpillar wants to have a better
playbook,”  Larry De Maria , an analyst for brokerage Sterne,
Agee & Leach Inc. in New York, said in an interview Sept. 9.
“It’s critical that they have wheels, tires, bearings and
everything else, which is essential to maximizing returns to
shareholders, return on capital and operating margins.”  Oberhelman says he’s targeting earnings of $8 to $10 a
share in 2012 on sales of close to $60 billion. Caterpillar,
based in Peoria, Illinois, has  forecast profit  this year of
$3.15 to $3.85 a share on sales of $39 billion to $42 billion.
The company will report third-quarter earnings results tomorrow.  “The supply chain and supplier collaboration is a big
piece of our future profit pull-through plan,” Oberhelman, 57,
said in an interview at Bloomberg News headquarters in New York.  “We are still a bit behind in our supply chain
efficiency,” he said. “If we get that right, the profit pulls
through pretty quickly.”  Dominant Position  Oberhelman appointed an outsider with a “deep background
in supply chain collaboration” as his new chief procurement
officer. Frank Crespo, who held that post at Honeywell
International Inc., started work in August.  Caterpillar may not have needed to focus on collaborating
with suppliers in the past because of its size and  dominant
position  in the industry, said  John Henke , president of
Birmingham, Michigan-based Planning Perspectives Inc. Henke has
advised manufacturers on supplier relationships for more than 20
years.  “Competition is going to be based on the supply chain, not
an individual company,” said Henke, who has developed an index
that quantifies buyer-supplier relations. “Toyota and Honda are
good because of their supply chain and great supplier
relations.”  Honda Motor Co. was the leader in Planning Perspectives’
ranking for supplier relations this year, followed by Toyota
Motor Corp. and Ford Motor Co. General Motors Co. is in the
lower half of the survey and Chrysler Group LLC has been the
lowest ranked since 2008.  Engendering Trust  Henke said improving relations with suppliers entails
communication and engendering trust that would spur vendors to
give manufacturers their best technology.  Still, working closely with suppliers can present pitfalls.
Boeing Co. in August postponed the first delivery of its 787
Dreamliner aircraft to early 2011 partly because of Rolls-Royce
Group Plc’s inability to supply an engine for flight tests.
Boeing is also working through quality issues in sections built
by Finmeccanica SpA’s Alenia Aeronautica.  Caterpillar’s collaboration model isn’t “the absolute
Japanese definition,” Oberhelman said. “It’s not the American
automotive supplier collaboration, where it’s price cuts, costs
down, and then you go bankrupt together. We are trying to find a
spot in the middle.”  ‘Rubik’s Cube’  Tenneco’s experience building parts that reduce emissions
for the automotive industry has benefited Caterpillar, Render
said. The partners reduced the complexity of the device they
worked on. They made two versions of a part used to burn soot in
the emission-reduction device for Caterpillar’s various
machines, compared with the 43 versions made by Caterpillar just
for truck engines in 2007.  “It’s a bit like playing a Rubik’s cube,” said Render, a
Caterpillar product manager. “If we do this, what will happen?
If we do that, what will happen? They helped with the
innovation. Tenneco has given us a model to collaborate.”  The device Caterpillar and Lake Forest, Illinois-based
Tenneco worked on to reduce diesel emissions, as required under
 federal law  from next year, will be used in about 100
Caterpillar models including various types of excavators,
backhoes, wheel loaders and bulldozers.  “When we come up with what we think is a pretty great
technical innovation, the first guys we talk to are the guys at
Caterpillar,” said  Brent Bauer , 54, a senior vice president who
oversees the project for Tenneco. “When you have everybody in
the same room, there are some magical things that happen. We get
great products. We optimize costs and we add speed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shruti Date Singh  at   ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 