-- CFS Retail Prices Biggest Australian Property Trust Bond Sale Since 2006
-- B y   L i s a   P h a m   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-10-20T07:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/cfs-prices-biggest-australia-reit-bond-sale-since-06-update1-.html
CFS Retail Property Trust , a real
estate trust that invests in shopping centers, sold A$450
million ($438 million) of bonds in the biggest domestic debt
issue by an Australian property company in more than four years.  The trust priced A$160 million of floating-rate  notes  due
in May 2014 to yield 160 basis points more than the bank bill
swap rate, according to an e-mailed statement from Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., which helped manage the sale
with Commonwealth Bank of Australia. It also priced A$290
million of fixed-rate notes due in May 2016 to yield 185 basis
points more than the swap rate, the statement said.  “Property trusts are trying to reduce their bank exposures
and arrange longer-term debt, which is more likely to be
obtained from the bond market,”  John Sorrell , who helps manage
about A$14 billion of fixed-income assets as Sydney-based head
of credit at Tyndall Investment Management Australia Ltd., said
in a phone interview. “There’s still pent-up issuance demand,
so the strong primary sales volume is set to continue.”  Most Australian real estate trusts have returned to profit
after exiting money-losing overseas investments and raising
capital following a period of surging debt costs and plunging
property values. REIT balance sheets are now “historically
strong” after they raised more than A$18 billion of capital in
2008 and 2009, Moody’s Investors Service said in August.  GPT, Stockland  CFS Retail’s sale is the biggest since  GPT Group , the
country’s third-largest property group by market value, sold
A$700 million of fixed- and floating-rate bonds in March 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Australian real estate
investment trusts have issued A$1.1 billion of domestic bonds
this year, the data show.  Stockland , Australia’s biggest diversified property group
that’s rated A- by Standard & Poor’s, one notch lower than CFS
Retail, sold A$300 million of five-year notes in December. The
8.5 percent bonds were priced to yield 270 basis points more
than the benchmark swap rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Sydney-based CFS Retail, which reported net income of A$315
million in the year to June 30, said last month it’s planning to
buy four shopping malls owned by Direct Factory Outlet in
Australia. The trust will fund the purchase through a A$540
million share sale, it said in a statement to the Australian
stock exchange at the time. The company will use funds from
today’s bond sale to refinance debt, according to a statement to
the stock exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  