-- China's Stocks Rise After Rate Increase; Insurers Rally, Developers Plunge
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-20T07:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/china-stock-futures-decline-after-central-bank-unexpectedly-boosts-rates.html
China’s benchmark stock  index rose
to a six-month high on speculation the nation’s first interest-
rate increase since 2007 will help tame inflation and contain
asset bubbles.  China Life Insurance Co.  and Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.
rose more than 4 percent after Mirae Asset Securities said
insurers will outperform in a rising rate environment. Liquor
maker Kweichow Moutai Co. and Tsingtao Brewery Co. led gains
among  consumer stocks  that are less dependent on the economy.
 China Vanke Co.  and Poly Real Estate Group Co. slumped at least
6 percent as higher borrowing costs may deter demand for housing.  “The interest-rate increase is more of a symbolic move and
won’t have too much impact on the ample liquidity,” said  Zhang Ling , a fund manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co. “We
are overweight on consumer stocks as this industry is what the
government wants to be as the major driver for growth.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, gained 2.10, or 0.1 percent, to
3,003.95 at the 3 p.m. close, the highest since April 21. The
measure dropped as much as 2 percent. Most Asian markets fell on
concern higher rates will slow China’s economic growth, while
the yuan slid the most in four months on speculation the rate
increase will cut the need for currency gains to curb inflation.  China’s  CSI 300 Index  added 0.6 percent to 3,396.88, led by
consumer and energy stocks. The Shanghai gauge has jumped 27
percent from its 2010 low on July 5 after lagging behind rallies
in other emerging markets and as a rising yuan lured higher
capital inflows. Morgan Stanley said it’s staying “bullish” on
Chinese stocks after the central bank increased rates, saying
that “early rate hikes very rarely conclude a market peak.”  Rate Increase  The central bank yesterday boosted the benchmark one-year
lending rate to 5.56 percent from 5.31 percent. The  deposit rate 
was increased to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent. Officials acted
before data tomorrow that may show inflation accelerated to the
fastest pace in almost two years in September.  China Life, the nation’s biggest insurer, jumped 4.5
percent to 27.88 yuan. Ping An, China’s second-biggest insurer,
advanced 7 percent to 66.98 yuan. China Pacific Insurance
(Group) Co., the third largest, rose 6.3 percent to 28.67 yuan.  China’s life insurers will benefit from improved investment
returns and gain flexibility to price products,  Ivan Cheung , a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Mirae Asset Securities, wrote in a
report dated today.  The rate increase is a “positive signal” for the nation’s
equity market as it supports a view that economic growth may
have bottomed out and is set to recover,  Frank Li  and Peng Chen,
analysts at JPMorgan in Hong Kong, said in a report. Investors
should buy Chinese stocks on any “dips,” Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. analysts said. Yuan-denominated assets become more
attractive and the decision indicates confidence among policy
makers on the strength of the economy, Citic Securities Co. said.  Consumer Stocks  China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four
months in September, while industrial output rose 13.9 percent
in August, exceeding economists’ estimates. Citing the economy’s
outlook, Moody’s Investors Service on Oct. 8 put the nation’s
debt rating on review for a possible upgrade.  A gauge of consumer staples producers rose 3.3 percent for
the biggest gain among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups.
Consumer stocks may benefit from the rate increase as investors
rotate to companies whose profitability is less affected by the
economy, said  Zhao Zifeng , who helps oversee about $10.2 billion
at China International Fund Management Co.  Moutai, China’s biggest producer of baijiu liquor by market
value, advanced 2.5 percent to 167.41 yuan.  Wuliangye Yibin Co. ,
the second biggest, climbed 4.6 percent to 36.15 yuan. Tsingtao
Brewery, the second-biggest by volume, rose 1.2 percent to 36.99.  Coal Stocks  Coal stocks rose as the rate increase signals the
government’s confidence in the economy’s strength and the
resilience of fuel demand, according to Essence Securities Co.  Datong Coal Industry Co. , China’s third-largest coal
company by capacity, soared by the 10 percent daily limit to
23.82 yuan. Pingdingshan Tianan Coal Mining Co., the listed unit
of the fifth-largest producer of the coal, rose 6.2 percent to
24.21 yuan.  “The market’s interpretation is that the interest-rate
increase indicates a strong economy, which will increase demand
for coal,” said  Li Dagang , an analyst at Essence Securities Co.
in Shanghai. “And also some institutional investors have been
adding to their allocations for coal stocks so they won’t miss
the boat during this rally.”  Property Bubble  The  Shanghai Composite  has fallen 8.3 percent this year
after the government raised bank reserve requirements three
times to curb lending growth and slow record gains in property
prices.  Ma Jun , head of Hong Kong and China strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG, said higher borrowing costs will hurt the outlook for
developers and commodity producers.  Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed developer, dropped 6.1
percent to 8.92 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second biggest, slid
7.8 percent to 13.98 yuan.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the listed unit of nation’s
biggest maker of the lightweight metal and also called Chalco,
retreated 3.8 percent to 12.30 yuan.  -- Zhang Shidong ,  Richard Frost ,  Chua Kong Ho . Editors:  Allen Wan ,
 Reinie Booysen   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  