-- China Mobile Reports Slower Net Income Growth Than Analysts Estimated
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-20T10:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/china-mobile-reports-slower-net-income-growth-than-analysts-estimated.html
China Mobile Ltd. , the world’s
biggest phone carrier by market value, posted third-quarter
profit that missed analysts’ estimates as it spent more on sales
promotions to win new subscribers.  Net income  increased 3.5 percent to 29.6 billion yuan ($4.5
billion) from 28.6 billion yuan a year earlier, according to
figures derived from nine-month earnings reported by the
Beijing-based company today. Profit was expected to be 30
billion yuan, according to the average of eight analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg News.  China Mobile plans to increase handset subsidies by almost
a third this year to keep its lead as competition intensifies
and the market saturates. Chairman  Wang Jianzhou  will start an
Internet search engine next year to boost revenue after the
percentage of the Chinese population with a mobile phone jumped
more than sixfold to 61 percent in the past decade.  “Subscriber additions clearly accelerated in the past
quarter, reflecting greater marketing efforts by the company,
and this would have an impact on the margins,” said  Jim Tang ,
who rates China Mobile shares “neutral” at Shenyin Wanguo
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Going forward, we will keep seeing
profit growing at a slower pace than the top line.”  Third-quarter  sales  rose 7.7 percent to 122.8 billion yuan.
That exceeded the 121.45 billion-yuan average of analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg News.  Phone Subsidies  China Mobile will increase spending on handset subsidies
this year to 15.5 billion yuan from 11.7 billion yuan in 2009,
it said in August. The company didn’t provide nine-month subsidy
data. The phone operator said in August it spent 8 billion yuan
through the first six months.  “The group will continue to increase its investments in
sales channels, customer service, network optimization, support
system and R&D in order to enhance the group’s core
competitiveness,” China Mobile’s Wang said in the release.  The company’s average monthly phone bill in the first nine
months was unchanged at 72 yuan, compared with the average
estimate of 72.9 yuan in the Bloomberg News survey.  More than half of China Mobile’s new users live in rural
areas, where customer spending is typically lower, undermining
profitability, the company has said.  One bright spot in the results was that the company added
1.86 million customers to its third-generation network last
month, almost double the 1.04 million added by rival China
Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.,  Paul Wuh , an analyst at Samsung
Securities Co. in Hong Kong, said. He rates the shares “buy”
and doesn’t own any.  Countryside Customers  Still, those additions don’t make up for the larger volume
of poorer customers being added in rural areas, he said.  “They are adding more low-end customers,” Wuh said. “You
still have more than 3 million subscribers coming in last month
from the countryside, where average revenue per user is much
lower.”  China Mobile  fell 1.4 percent to HK$82.25 in Hong Kong
trading before the earnings announcement. The stock has gained
13 percent this year.  The company, the largest mobile-phone operator by
subscribers, in August named  Li Yue  as its new chief executive
officer, replacing Wang who remains chairman.  China Unicom and China Telecom Corp. will report financial
results for the period next week.  -- Edmond Lococo , Mark Lee. Editor:  Vipin V. Nair ,  Young-Sam Cho   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Edmond Lococo  in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  