-- China Wants United Nations to Block Report on Chinese Ammunition in Darfur
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-10-21T01:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/china-seeks-to-block-unpublished-un-report-on-chinese-ammunition-in-darfur.html
An unpublished  United Nations  report
saying Chinese bullets were used in attacks on peacekeeping
troops in the Darfur region of Sudan is an “attack” on China
and shouldn’t be made public, a Chinese diplomat said.  Yang Tao said the allegation that Chinese ammunition was
used by Darfur militias, suggesting a possible violation of the
UN arms embargo on the region, was no more than a “guess” and
that only “proven scientific, independent, objective views”
should be included in such reports.  “It is an attack on China,” Yang said in an interview.  He said more discussion of the report was needed in the UN
 Security Council  committee that monitors the 2005 arms embargo.
China’s opposition would block release of the report, which was
reviewed at a committee meeting yesterday in New York.  Unanimous consent of the council’s 15 members is required
before the committee can release the report, written by a panel
of experts on the conflict in Darfur.  “One delegation made it very clear it has problems with
the substance of the report,” the committee’s chairman,
Ambassador Thomas Mayr-Harting of Austria, told reporters after
the meeting.  Violence in Darfur exploded in 2003 when rebels took up
arms, accusing the authorities in Sudan’s capital, Khartoum, of
neglecting the region. The conflict has led to the deaths of as
many as 300,000 people, mainly due to illness and starvation,
and forced about 2.7 million people from their homes, according
to UN estimates.  The Sudanese government has put the death toll at about
10,000 people.  Chinese Opposition  Since 2003 China has delayed or blocked a number of
proposed steps to end the conflict. It initially opposed a joint
UN and African Union peacekeeping mission and the first
sanctions on Sudanese military and militia leaders accused of
committing crimes against humanity. China abstained when the
sanctions were adopted in April 2006.  China is the biggest importer of  oil  pumped in Sudan, where
the output of 490,000 barrels per day ranks the country as sub-
Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer.  Countries may legally supply Sudan with arms on the
condition they aren’t used in Darfur. The report doesn’t say
that China’s government knowingly sold ammunition to Sudan for
use in Darfur, or that the bullets came directly from China,
Agence France-Presse reported, citing unnamed diplomats.  Bullet casings found at the scene of attacks on UN troops
in Darfur also were made in Sudan and Israel, according to the
diplomats who spoke to AFP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  