-- Rare Earth Prices Soar Even as China Pledges Supply
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2010-10-20T23:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/china-pledges-to-maintain-rare-earth-sales-official-says-exports-may-rise.html
Rare-earth prices have jumped as
Chinese export quotas crimped worldwide supplies for the
elements used in the manufacture of disk drives, wind turbines
and smart bombs.  Prices have climbed sevenfold in the last six months for
cerium oxide, which is used for polishing semiconductors, and
other elements have more than doubled, according to Metal-Pages
Ltd. in London, which tracks rare-earth prices.  Actions by China, which produces more than 90 percent of
the world’s rare earths, have drawn criticism from U.S.
lawmakers and officials in Japan and Germany. China reduced its
second-half export quota for the minerals by 72 percent in July.
It is now further restricting exports, according to industry
participants.  “Materials are still being held up in customs and
shipments are delayed,” Jeff Green, president of  J.A. Green &
Company LLC  in Washington, who represents miners and users of
the elements, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Many
believe rare-earth quotas for the second half of 2010 are
exhausted, leaving materials unavailable for sale.”  President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman said the National
Security Council staff is looking into reports that China is
blocking shipments. “They’ve seen the reports,” press secretary
 Robert Gibbs  told reporters traveling with Obama on a West Coast
campaign trip. “They’re looking into them but don’t have
anything they could confirm about those reports.”  China’s Comments  China said the quota reduction was needed in order to shut
polluting mines and still be able to meet domestic demand. It
will “continue to supply rare earth to the world” while
maintaining restrictions “to protect exhaustible resources and
ensure sustainable development,” the Commerce Ministry said in
a statement yesterday.  Contributing to the rise in prices is an expectation of
further restrictions. China will probably tighten export
controls on rare earths next year,  Shigeo Nakamura , president of
Advanced Material Japan Corp., said at a conference in China
yesterday.  Rare earths are a group of 17 chemically similar metallic
elements, such as lanthanum, cerium, neodymium and europium. The
elements are used in radar, high-powered magnets, mini-hard
drives in laptop computers, catalytic converters for vehicles,
electric-car batteries and wind turbines.  “It’s pretty frightening that there may be a gap where
U.S. industry pays an extraordinary price,” U.S. Representative
 Mike Coffman , a Colorado Republican, said in an interview. He
said U.S. rare-earth mining isn’t likely to resume until at
least late 2012 at a mine in Mountain Pass, California.  ‘Unified Front’  “The administration needs to join with other countries and
have a unified front to tell China this is not appropriate,” he
said.  China’s control of the $1.2 billion market for rare-earth
elements gives it “market power” over the U.S., the Government
Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress, said
in a report in April. China restricts exports of the elements
through quotas and export taxes, the GAO said.  China has begun to use that market power recently,
according to Japanese officials. They said supplies of the
elements to Japan were cut after a Chinese fishing trawler
collided with two Coast Guard boats in the East China Sea near
islands claimed by both countries.  This week, Chinese customs officials began stopping
shipments to the rest of the world, according to two people
involved in the industry who spoke on the condition of anonymity
because of concern about Chinese reaction. Chinese customs
officials are delaying shipments by requiring shippers to open
containers of the elements for chemical analysis, one of the
people said.  Situation Fluid  What’s not clear is whether China has imposed new
restrictions or exporters have simply filled the quotas that
China imposed in July, the people said.  “Right now it’s very difficult to find prices because the
situation is so fluid,” Ed Richardson, vice president at Thomas
& Skinner Inc. in Indianapolis, a maker of magnets for the
military who has sought U.S. funding to use rare earths. “China
is not talking, but this does fall in line with the quotas they
laid out in July.”  Prices for cerium oxide rose to $36 a kilogram Oct. 19 from
about $4.70 a kilogram on April 20, according to Metal-Pages.
Neodymium, used in magnets, rose to $92 a kilogram from about
$41 in April and $46.50 in July, the company said.  Hybrid Vehicles  About 37 percent of worldwide rare-earth sales in 2008 were
for magnets used in products such as hard-disk drives, hybrid-
electric vehicles and guided missiles, according to Industrial
Minerals Co. of Australia. An additional 31 percent went into
phosphors, used in making energy-efficient lights.  China set a production cap of 89,200 metric tons this year,
while reducing its export quota to 22,300 tons, according to
estimates by Guosen Securities Co. It announced that quota in
July, and prices have climbed since then.  Companies and government officials have already begun to
react to the threat of a shortage of the elements.  The U.S. rare-earth mine in Mountain Pass, California, shut
down most operations in 2002.  Molycorp Inc. , which owns the
mine, plans to reopen it, and Chief Executive Officer  Mark Smith 
said this week that it may double the planned capacity to 40,000
metric tons.  Glencore International AG, the world’s biggest commodities
trader, also said this week that it would try to restart the Pea
Ridge rare-earth mine in Missouri.  National-Security Risks  The U.S. Defense Department is studying the national-
security risks of dependence on China, and Congress is
considering legislation to boost U.S. mining and production.  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA , Spain’s biggest wind-turbine
maker, said countries such as the U.S., Canada and Australia
hold unexploited deposits of rare earths. While most of the
minerals are currently obtained from China, “there is no
scarcity of rare-earth minerals in the medium to long term,” a
Gamesa spokeswoman said by e-mail, declining to be identified in
line with company policy.  In Germany, the government yesterday adopted a strategy to
secure supply of raw materials including rare earths. Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  said last week that it’s “urgently necessary” to
boost European investment in eastern Europe and Central Asia to
counter expanding Chinese interest in rare minerals.  Companies Reduced  China has cut the number of rare-earth companies this year,
said Li Zhong, deputy general manager of  Inner Mongolia Baotou
Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co.  By 2015, the government wants to
reduce the number of rare-earth oxide producers to 20 from 90,
he said.  Traders are now waiting to learn what quotas China may
impose on exports for 2011, Green said.  “China might raise the production cap and export quota
slightly next year,” said Wang Caifeng, who until last week was
deputy director at the Ministry of Industry and Information
Technology who oversaw the sector, saying that was her personal
opinion. She is now in charge of setting up the ministry-
affiliated China Rare Earth Industry Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  