-- China’s Rate Hike to Boost Banks’ Interest Margins, Profits
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-20T02:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/china-s-interest-rate-increase-to-spur-banks-profits-morgan-stanley-says.html
China’s decision to raise interest
rates for the first time since 2007 will boost earnings at banks
as their margins on lending widen, according to Morgan Stanley
and Deutsche Bank AG analysts.  Profit at 11 publicly traded Chinese banks may increase
between 3.9 percent and 7.4 percent after the central bank
yesterday unexpectedly lifted benchmark lending and deposit
rates, according to Morgan Stanley. The move will raise large
banks’ net income by 1.2 percent and mid-sized banks’ by 2.2
percent, Deutsche Bank said.  “It seems to us that the policy tide has turned in favor
of the banks after battering them for about a year,” Credit
Suisse Group AG analysts  Sanjay Jain  and  Daisy Wu  said in a note
today. “Chinese banks are extremely attractive on valuations.”  China’s policy makers are trying to curb lending and
prevent an asset bubble in a country that overtook Japan in the
second quarter as the world’s second-largest economy. While the
central bank raised rates on longer-term deposits more than
those on loans with the same maturity, it left the cost of
demand deposits unchanged.  Demand deposits account for 47 percent to 56 percent of
Hong Kong-listed Chinese banks’ funding.  Shares of Chinese lenders rose in early trading in Shanghai
before being dragged down by the broader market. The benchmark
 Shanghai Composite Index  dropped 1.2 percent as of 10:14 a.m.,
while the Hang Seng Index lost 1.7 percent in Hong Kong.  The central bank’s move “to a less accommodating stance
for monetary policy and further increases in rates in coming
months could trigger concerns over slower growth, slower asset
price appreciation and potentially rising impaired loans,” UBS
AG analysts led by  Sarah Wu  wrote in another note.  The 11 listed Chinese banks may next week report combined
net income of 500.8 billion yuan ($75 billion) for the first
nine months of the year, up 33 percent from a year earlier,
Deutsche Bank forecast.  -- Luo Jun . Editors:  James Gunsalus ,  Chitra Somayaji   To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  