-- China Rates Move, Geithner's Comments May Signal Accord, BNY Mellon Says
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-10-20T16:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/china-rates-move-geithner-s-comments-may-signal-accord-bny-mellon-says.html
China’s interest-rate increases and
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s commitment to a
strong dollar suggest the nations may have reached a currency
accord, Bank of New York Mellon Corp. said.  “The timing of this week’s comments and policy shifts at
least allows the possibility that some agreement has been
reached,”  Simon Derrick , chief foreign-exchange strategist in
London, said today in an e-mailed note. “If some kind of accord
has been reached then this would be hugely significant,
signaling trend reversals in a wide range of markets.”  Geithner is traveling this week to Gyeongju, South Korea,
to meet with Group of 20 counterparts as tensions heat up over
China’s currency. He delayed a report on foreign-exchange
markets last week, saying the yuan remained undervalued and that
China needed to show continued commitment to allowing the
currency to rise against the dollar over time. The People’s Bank
of China unexpectedly raised its benchmark lending and deposit
rates yesterday, the first increase since 2007.  Geithner said two days ago that the U.S. will work hard to
“preserve confidence in a strong dollar.” Following the June
meeting of Group of 20 leaders in Toronto, members said in a
statement they agreed that “monetary policy will continue to be
appropriate to achieve price stability,” and endorsed targets
to cut deficits.  Yuan Appreciation  “The first part of any accord would certainly require the
U.S. not to call China a currency manipulator and to show
greater support for its own currency,” Derrick wrote. In
return, China might need to “signal that it was prepared to
allow the yuan to move at a faster pace,” he said.  One way to do this might be to “show a greater willingness
to focus with inflationary pressures and less on attempting to
keep the yuan competitive,” Derrick wrote in the note.  China’s yuan has strengthened about 2.5 percent against the
dollar since the nation scrapped a two-year currency peg on June
19 after its economy improved. The Dollar Index has tumbled more
than 10 percent since June amid mounting speculation that the
Federal Reserve may increase asset purchases to stimulate the
U.S. economy.  China lifted the benchmark one-year lending rate to 5.56
percent from 5.31 percent. The  deposit rate  was increased to 2.5
percent from 2.25 percent. The nation’s policy makers are trying
to curb lending and prevent an asset-price bubble in a country
that surpassed Japan this year as the world’s second largest
economy.  Asia Recommendation  “China’s rate hike has increased and not decreased the
chance of a G-20 agreement,” BNP Paribas SA analysts led by
 Hans-Guenter Redeker  in London wrote in a note to clients today.
“We suggest going long Asian currencies.”  The G-20 meeting of finance ministers this week precedes a
meeting of national leaders next month in Seoul.  Currencies and trade flows will be at the center of talks
among the finance ministers, a U.S. Treasury Department official
told reporters today.  Some big emerging-market nations are resisting market
forces and keeping their currencies undervalued, creating a
competitive dynamic of resisting market forces, the official
said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The U.S. wants foreign
exchange rates to reflect market forces and economic
fundamentals, the aide said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  