-- China's TAL Education Rallies After $120 Million U.S. Initial Public Offer
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-10-20T20:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/china-s-tal-education-group-raises-120-million-in-u-s-initial-offering.html
TAL Education Group , which offers
after-school tutoring services in China, raised $120 million
after pricing its initial public offering at the top of its
forecast range. The shares rallied 50 percent.  The Beijing-based company sold 12 million American
depositary receipts for $10 each yesterday after offering them
at $8 to $10 apiece, according to a  filing  with the Securities
and Exchange Commission and a statement. TAL Education climbed
 $5  to $15 today in New York Stock Exchange trading.  The sale came after companies from China posted three of
the four biggest gains among U.S. IPOs in 2010 while  Ambow
Education Holding Ltd.  and  Global Education & Technology Group
Ltd. , two Beijing-based test preparation providers, listed their
shares in New York this year. TAL Education’s  sales  increased 86
percent in the year ended in February, the filing showed.  “They have quite a growth ahead of them that they can
execute,” said  Benjamin Kirby , a Santa Fe, New Mexico-based
analyst at Thornburg Investment Management, which has about $65
billion in assets. “They have volume growth, they have
geographic expansion opportunities.”  TAL Education, which provides its services to more than
380,000 students in cities from Beijing to Wuhan, will use the
proceeds to help increase its number of learning and service
centers and pay a dividend, according to the prospectus.  This Week’s IPOs  Credit Suisse Group AG  of Zurich and Morgan Stanley in New
York led the offering. The IPO was the third of six scheduled
for this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bravo Brio Restaurant Group Inc. , the Columbus, Ohio-based
Italian restaurant chain operator, will sell 8.3 million shares
at $14 to $16 each today.  Vera Bradley Inc. , the Fort Wayne,
Indiana-based women’s accessory retailer, will offer 11 million
shares at $14 to $16 each, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Aegerion Pharmaceuticals Inc. , the Bridgewater, New Jersey-
based biopharmaceutical company that develops drugs treating
lipid disorders, will sell 4.7 million at $14 to $16 tomorrow,
SEC filings and data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chinese companies account for six of the 10 biggest gains
among U.S. IPOs this year, led by Shandong province-based  China
New Borun Corp.’s  169 percent surge, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. China’s economy will grow 9.6 percent in 2011, according
to estimates from the Washington-based International Monetary
Fund. That compares with 2.2 percent for developed nations and
2.3 percent forecast for the U.S.  Not all offerings from Chinese companies have rallied.
 ShangPharma Corp. , a Shanghai-based pharmaceutical company, slid
 15 percent  yesterday for the biggest first-day decline for any
U.S. IPO this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 