-- Coal India Ends Last Day in Initial Sale With $48.7 Billion of `Hard Cash'
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-10-21T14:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/coal-india-initial-sale-attracts-37-billion-of-hard-cash-on-third-day.html
Coal India Ltd. , the world’s biggest
producer of the fuel, ended the last day of its initial share
sale with at least 2.16 trillion rupees ($48.7 billion) of bids.  Investors offered to buy almost 9.6 billion shares, or 15.2
times the 631.6 million shares on offer, according to  data  on
the National Stock Exchange’s website as of 6 p.m. local time
today. The shares are on sale for 225 rupees to 245 rupees
apiece. Only retail investors were able to bid today.  “This gives you the confidence that an Indian deal can
attract up to $50 billion in demand,” said  Dharmesh A. Mehta ,
managing director for institutional equities at Enam Securities
Pvt. The investment bank is managing the transaction along with
 Citigroup Inc. , Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of America Corp., Kotak
Mahindra Capital Co. and  Morgan Stanley .  Investors have flocked to the offering on expectations that
Coal India stands to benefit from surging energy demand in India,
where 56 percent of power is generated from the fuel, according
to August data from the Central Electricity Authority. India may
need to more than quadruple power generation capacity by 2030 to
sustain growth in Asia’s second-fastest growing major economy,
according to the  Planning Commission .  The sale of the 10 percent stake in Coal India, through
which the government aims to raise as much as 151.5 billion
rupees, is set to top the 116 billion rupees in the initial
public offering by billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s  Reliance Power Ltd. 
in January 2008.  Mutual funds and institutional investors were allowed to
bid for Coal India shares from Oct. 18 until yesterday evening.  Margin Money  “This is hard cash, compared to the last record IPO, when
institutional investors only had to put in 10 percent as margin
money,” Mehta said by phone from Mumbai. The capital markets
regulator in May began requiring bidders to put up their entire
application money upfront.  The share sale may help the government meet about 38
percent of the 400 billion rupees target it set to raise by
selling shares in state-run companies in the year ending March
31 to trim the budget deficit.  Overseas investors have bought a record 1.08 trillion
rupees of Indian equities this year, pushing the benchmark
Sensitive Index earlier this month to its highest level in 2 1/2
years.  The Coal India offering cements  Kotak Mahindra ’s No. 1
ranking in managing initial share sales in India in 2010, with
Enam Securities as No. 2, in a year in which Indian IPOs have
raised 179 billion rupees, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  