-- Gates Favors Coca-Cola Femsa After Parent Sheds Beer
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2010-10-20T20:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/coca-cola-femsa-gains-favor-with-bill-gates-after-parent-sheds-beer-unit.html
Coca-Cola Femsa SAB , the largest
Coca-Cola bottler by volume, is outpacing parent Fomento
Economico Mexicano SAB by the widest margin in five years as
 Bill Gates  and other investors seek more exposure to developing
nations.  Coca-Cola Femsa had risen 15.5 percent this year in Mexican
trading, compared with 6.4 percent for Femsa, also owner of
convenience-store chain  Oxxo . Femsa has fallen short since Chief
Executive Officer  Jose Antonio Fernandez  sold its Mexican
brewing unit to  Heineken NV  this year in exchange for a 20
percent stake in the Amsterdam-based beermaker.  In shedding the century-old family beer business, Fernandez
made Femsa less focused on developing countries, making the
bottler a better prospect for investors targeting faster-growing
economies, said Vontobel Asset Management analyst  Donny Kranson .
Fernandez, who runs both companies, said the sale of the beer
business to Heineken will allow Femsa to focus on building out
Oxxo and the bottler operations.  “Femsa beforehand was pretty much a pure-play, emerging-
market company,” said Kranson, whose New York-based firm
manages about $10 billion and owns shares of Femsa and its
Mexican cola bottler. “From an emerging-market perspective,
Femsa is now less attractive.”  The Bill Gates Foundation and Cascade Investment LLC, which
manages money for billionaire Gates, bought the bottler’s U.S.
shares in May and June to boost combined holdings to 28 percent,
according to regulatory filings. Gates failed to add to his 13
percent stake in Femsa’s U.S. shares over that period.  Michael Larson , who runs both firms from Kirkland, Washington, didn’t
respond to requests for comment.  Less Value  Coca-Cola Femsa had a market value of about $14.7 billion.
Femsa’s was $19.2 billion, which includes a 54 percent stake of
Coca-Cola Femsa valued at $7.9 billion, a 20 percent stake in
Heineken valued at $6.1 billion and the Oxxo chain.  Juan Fonseca , chief of investor relations for Femsa, said
he recognizes the parent company is trading below the value of
the sum of its parts.  “It is not our role to suggest what the right valuation
should be for our company,” Fonseca said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “That is up to investors to decide.”  Lockstep Trading  Coca-Cola Femsa and Femsa had  traded  in lockstep for the
past five years through the end of 2009, with a rate of return
that differed by only 4 percentage points as the stocks both
more than tripled. This year, Coca-Cola Femsa has risen 9
percentage points more than its parent.  Femsa rose 16 centavos to 66.66 pesos in Mexico City
trading at 4:01 p.m. New York time. Coca-Cola Femsa fell 1.66
pesos to 99.41 pesos. Deutsche Bank AG analyst  Jose Yordan  cut
his  recommendation  on Coca-Cola Femsa to “sell” from “hold”
in a report today on concern over increased costs for sugar and
corn sweetener.  Coca-Cola Femsa is outperforming its parent because the
company probably will grow through acquisitions and partnerships
with the Coca-Cola Co., said  David Winters , CEO of Wintergreen
Advisers LLC in Mountain Lakes, New Jersey, an investment firm
that manages about $1.8 billion.  Coca-Cola Femsa  became the
world’s largest franchise for the beverage after Coca-Cola Co.
bought its North American bottling operations this month.  Coca-Cola, based in Atlanta, is likely to choose the
Mexican bottler as a partner to run the North American
operations, according to Credit Suisse Group AG analyst  Carlos Laboy . The two formed a partnership to sell non-carbonated
drinks in Latin America with the purchase of Mexican juice
producer Jugos del Valle in 2007. They also may expand the
partnership by agreeing to buy Grupo Industrias Lacteas, a milk,
yogurt and juice maker in Panama, Coca-Cola Femsa said Oct. 14.  Keep Trailing  Femsa will keep trailing Coca-Cola Femsa since investors
tend to apply discounts to holding companies, said  Luis Miranda ,
an analyst with the Mexican unit of Banco Santander SA. Femsa
trades at 25 percent less than the value of its holdings, said
Miranda, who cut his recommendation on Femsa to “hold” from
“buy” in an Oct. 5 report. He raised his recommendation for
Coca-Cola Femsa to “buy” from “hold.”  The discount may present a buying opportunity as investors
begin to realize the growth potential of Oxxo, Winters said. In
the past five years, Oxxo’s operating income has risen almost
fivefold to 4.56 billion pesos ($360 million) in 2009, while the
beer unit’s profit rose 24 percent to 5.89 billion pesos.  The company is expanding the chain in Colombia and has said
it will increase stores in Mexico to 12,000 by 2014 from about
7,300 at the end of 2009. The moves may help investors see
beyond Femsa’s holding company status, Winters said.  Oxxo’s Accomplishments  “People don’t quite appreciate what a great accomplishment
Oxxo is,” Winters said. “That business in the long term could
have legs beyond Mexico.”  Femsa  reported  net income of 29.2 billion pesos in the
second quarter, an increase of more than tenfold, because of a
26.5 billion peso gain from the Heineken transaction. Coca-Cola
Femsa had net income of 2.48 billion, a 15 percent increase from
a year ago. The companies are both scheduled to report third-
quarter results this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  