-- Computer Expert Pleads Guilty to Stock Manipulation Scheme With Hackers
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-10-20T19:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/computer-expert-pleads-guilty-to-stock-manipulation-scheme-with-hackers.html
An Arizona computer specialist who
did time in prison for his role in an Internet stock-fraud
scheme pleaded guilty in New Jersey today to a similar scam.  James Bragg, 41, admitted in federal court in Trenton that
he inflated the prices of thinly traded stocks between November
2007 and February 2009 by promoting them through mass e-mails,
or spam, and by taking over the brokerage accounts of third
parties.  Bragg also pleaded guilty in August 2009 to his role in a
scheme led by Alan Ralsky of West Bloomfield, Michigan, who
prosecutors  said  was once “the world’s most notorious illegal
spammer.” Bragg, who was sentenced to a year in prison in that
case, was released in April, records show. Ralsky is serving a
51-month prison term.  “The conspirators may have updated the fraud with
technology, but strip away the army of computers and this is a
classic pump and dump scheme,” U.S. Attorney  Paul Fishman  said
in a statement.  Bragg, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit
securities fraud and fraud in connection with electronic mail,
faces as many as five years in prison. U.S. District Judge  Joel Pisano  set a sentencing date of Feb. 2.  Bragg’s attorney, Robert Morgan of Detroit, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Army of Computers  The scheme involved hackers using an army of computers, or
botnet, to distribute computer viruses around the world, Bragg
admitted.  Bragg and co-conspirators used spam to promote stocks, and
hired hackers and spammers to carry out the scheme, according to
prosecutors. The conspirators hacked into brokerage accounts of
third parties, liquidated stocks and then bought shares of
stocks they had manipulated, Bragg admitted.  Bragg, of Chandler, Arizona, was living in Thailand at the
time of the scheme, according to his criminal charge. One
conspirator, he said, was a stock promoter in Florida; another
was a Texas resident who was a middleman between stock promoters
and spammers; and a third was a spammer outside the U.S.  The criminal charge didn’t say how much money the scheme
generated. Prosecutors said the manipulated stocks included
Remote Surveillance Technologies Inc. and VShield Software Corp.  The case is U.S. v. James Bragg, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Trenton).  Editors: Fred Strasser, Andrew Dunn  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 