-- Copper Processing Fees to Rise as Ore Supply Swells, According to Aurubis
-- B y   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-10-20T16:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/copper-processing-fees-to-rise-as-ore-supply-swells-according-to-aurubis.html
Fees paid by copper miners to
smelters for processing crushed ore will rise next year as
supply catches up with demand, said  Aurubis AG , Europe’s largest
smelter of the metal.  Spot charges have more than doubled in two to three months
to $80 a metric ton and 8 cents a pound,  Thomas Hoelandt , vice
president of the Hamburg-based company’s primary-copper unit,
said Oct. 18 in an interview. The fees rise when concentrates
are plentiful because processors have less need to compete for
raw materials to feed their smelters.  “The market is in surplus, and we expect it to remain that
way over the next few months,” Hoelandt said, predicting a
“rather balanced” market in 2011.  Concentrates were scarce in the last several years as
smelters in China, the world’s largest copper user, added
capacity and the world financial crisis delayed mining projects.
Competition for raw materials pushed fees down to zero for some
immediate-delivery accords this year, according to London-based
researcher CRU. Smelters can sell byproducts such as precious
metals and sulfuric acid.  “The situation has been such that some smelters could
hardly survive, but now the concentrate market has improved,”
said  Bernd Drouven , chief executive officer of Aurubis, who
spoke in the same interview.  Benchmark Fees  Annual benchmark charges fell this year to $46.50 a ton and
4.65 cents a pound from $75 and 7.5 cents in 2009 because of the
lack of concentrates, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. Talks under way between smelters and mining companies on
next year’s fees may result in benchmarks near 2009’s level,
Hoelandt said.  Concentrate, crushed ore with a copper content of between
20 percent and 40 percent, is smelted to a purity of as much as
70 percent, processed in a converter and then refined into
finished plates that are 99.99 percent pure metal, according to
the International Copper Study Group.  Falling smelter revenues prompted HudBay Minerals Inc. and
Xstrata Plc to shut Canadian units this year. Southern Copper
Corp.’s La Caridad smelter in Mexico is operating at reduced
capacity.  Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. said in September a court
ordered the closing of a 400,000-ton smelter after breaches of
environmental rules. The company is India’s largest copper
producer and a unit of Vedanta Resources Plc. A higher court
granted an interim order in the following month permitting the
smelter to remain in operation until the middle of December.  ‘Real Blow’  A shutdown may mean losing the capacity to process about 1
million tons of concentrates, which “could be a real blow” to
mining companies, Hoelandt said. Aurubis treats 2 million tons
of concentrates annually.  Smelters in China and Japan have been running this year
below the production rate expected by Aurubis, according to
Drouven. The global utilization rate at smelters probably will
be “a bit lower” this year, compared with about 80 percent in
the last several years, he said.  The industry is operating at 67 percent of capacity, the
lowest level in at least 25 years, CRU estimates.  Expansion by copper miners, which had to delay projects
because of the financial crisis, will aid supply, according to
the CEO.  Antofagasta Plc , which operates three copper mines in
Chile, said Oct. 8 it will start up a fourth in November with a
goal of reaching capacity of 200,000 tons a year by 2012. Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s third-biggest mining company, in June
approved $469 million of spending to develop the Eagle copper
and nickel mine in the U.S. state of Michigan.  Record Output  Aurubis, which was started in 1866, produced a record 1.14
million tons of cathodes, as the refined plates are known, in
the fiscal year through September.  Copper for delivery in three months has risen 13 percent
this year on the London Metal Exchange after more than doubling
in 2009. The contract gained $75, or 0.9 percent, to $8,335 a
ton at 5:42 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Stablum  in Hamburg at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 