-- Copper Futures Rebound From Biggest Drop Since July After Dollar Declines
-- B y   A n n a   S t a b l u m   a n d   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 2010-10-20T17:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/copper-may-rebound-from-biggest-decline-since-july-as-the-dollar-weakens.html
Copper prices rose, rebounding from
the biggest drop in three months, as the dollar resumed a slide,
enhancing the appeal of commodities as alternative investments.  The  greenback  fell as much as 1.4 percent against a basket
of major currencies. Copper in New York slid 2.5 percent
yesterday, the most since July 16, after China, the world’s
biggest metal consumer, raised interest rates.  “It looks like the knee-jerk reaction to the China rate
hike is over, and the market has had time to absorb the
implications,” said  Alex Heath , the head of industrial-metal
trading at Royal Bank of Canada Europe Ltd. in London. “The key
again will be the dollar.”  Copper futures for December delivery rose 3.6 cents, or 1
percent, to settle at $3.7935 a pound at 1:20 p.m. on the Comex
in New York. The metal has gained 13 percent in 2010.  Yesterday, China unexpectedly raised borrowing costs for
the first time since 2007, lifting the benchmark one-year
lending rate and the deposit rate by 0.25 percentage point.  The increase “is being seen as a vote of confidence in the
resilience of the Chinese economy and should not derail it or
impact levels of base-metal consumption for the longer term,”
Heath said.  Copper may reach a record in 2011 on tightness in mine
supply, analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch said today in
a report.  “Weak growth in copper mine output remains the base case
for next year, which is one of the reasons we expect prices to
trade well above pre-recession record highs,” Bank of America
said.  Copper for delivery in three months rose $80, or 1 percent,
to $8,340 ($3.79 a pound) a metric ton on the London Metal
Exchange. The price touched $8,940 on July 2, 2008, the highest
ever.  Aluminum, lead, nickel, tin and zinc also gained.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net ;
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  