-- Corn Rises for First Time in a Week as Dollar Drop May Boost U.S. Exports
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-10-20T20:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/corn-rises-for-first-time-in-a-week-as-dollar-drop-may-boost-u-s-exports.html
Corn futures rose for the first time
in six sessions as a weaker dollar improved prospects for grain
exports from the U.S., the world’s largest grower and shipper.  The  dollar  fell the most in more than three months against
a basket of six currencies, boosting investor demand for
alternative assets. U.S. export sales for delivery in the
marketing year that began Sept. 1 jumped 14 percent to 18.973
million metric tons as of Oct. 7, compared with a year earlier,
 government data  show.  “Export demand should improve,” said  Don Roose , the
president of U.S. Commodities Inc. in West Des Moines, Iowa.
“The dollar weakness is increasing money flows into
commodities.”  Corn futures for December delivery surged 27.5 cents, or 5
percent, to close at $5.735 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade, after falling 5.7 percent during the prior five
sessions. Earlier, the price rose the 30-cent maximum allowed by
the exchange. On Oct. 13, futures reached $5.88, the highest
level for a most-active contract since August 2008.  Prices also were supported by expectations for declining
global production of corn, a key ingredient in livestock feed,
said  Bill Nelson , a senior economist for Doane Advisory Services
Co. in St. Louis. That will increase competition for supplies
from the U.S., Nelson said.  World production of feed grains including corn, barley and
oats will fall 1.5 percent to a three-year low of 1.089 billion
tons this year, the USDA said in a report on Oct. 8. Reserve
inventories before next year’s Northern Hemisphere harvest will
fall 18 percent.  “The strong bull market is one that when a setback in
prices occurs, it attracts increased demand from consumers,”
Nelson said. “Corn is the upside leader because of the
shrinking global supplies.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, government figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 