-- Credit Suisse May Post Quarterly Profit Decline on Drop in Trading Revenue
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2010-10-20T07:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/credit-suisse-may-post-quarterly-profit-decline-on-drop-in-trading-revenue.html
Credit Suisse Group AG , Switzerland’s
second-largest bank, will probably report a drop in third-
quarter earnings tomorrow on lower revenue from trading.  Credit Suisse may say net income fell 63 percent from a
year earlier to 861 million Swiss francs ($891 million), the
lowest level since the fourth quarter of 2009, according to the
median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Earnings at the Zurich-based bank were crimped by a slump
in client business that also hurt trading revenue at competitors
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , analysts said. Chief
Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said last month that direct
client revenues made up about 90 percent of the total at the
investment bank in the first half of this year.  “The usual seasonal weakness in customer activity through
July and August was more marked than normal, driven by
continuing investor caution,” Citigroup Inc. analysts led by
 Kinner Lakhani  said in a note.  Goldman Sachs, Citigroup and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , all
based in New York, as well as Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America Corp., on average reported a 19 percent decline
in trading revenue in the third quarter from a year earlier,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Credit Suisse may post a 30
percent slump for the period, analysts estimated.  Goldman Sachs, the biggest securities firm by revenue,
reported yesterday a 40 percent drop in  third-quarter profit  to
$1.9 billion, beating analysts’ estimates, as lower costs and
higher investment-banking revenue cushioned the trading slump.  ‘Subdued’  Rates and foreign exchange businesses were “more subdued”
in the third quarter and the equities unit saw a “slower volume
market,” Dougan told investors at a conference in London on
Sept. 29. The bank’s credit business was “quite active” in
August and September and the U.S. residential mortgage unit
performed “quite well,” he said.  Credit Suisse fell 15 percent in Swiss trading this year,
compared with a 1.9 percent decline in the 54-company Bloomberg
 Europe Banks and Financial Services Index . UBS AG, the largest
Swiss bank, rose 9.5 percent. It reports earnings Oct. 26.  “UBS and Credit Suisse are most dependent on client
activity levels, as evidenced by the revenue volatility over the
last six quarters and their strategic positioning,” Sanford C.
Bernstein analysts led by  Dirk Hoffmann-Becking  said in a note
this week. That will help the banks as client activity increases
at the latest in the first half of 2011, they said.  ‘Risk Appetite’  “We believe that client confidence, risk appetite and
demand for sophisticated products will return before too long,”
Dougan, 51, told investors last month.  The bank’s wealth management business probably attracted
10.5 billion francs in net new funds in the third quarter, while
pretax profit at the unit may show a 13 percent decline to 632
million francs, analysts estimated.  Credit Suisse, which has been expanding its market share in
private and  investment banking , said earlier this month that it
expects to meet new regulatory capital requirements without
having to sell new shares or to “materially” change its growth
plans and  dividend  policies.  A Swiss government-appointed panel proposed that the two
biggest Swiss banks need to hold almost double the capital
required under Basel III rules. By 2019, the lenders need to
have a common equity ratio of at least 10 percent, compared with
7 percent under Basel III rules, and total capital equal to at
least 19 percent of risk-weighted assets, compared with Basel’s
10.5 percent requirement.  Credit Suisse eschewed state aid during the financial
crisis, while UBS required a government rescue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  