-- Croatian Corruption Probe Won't Derail EU Bid, Josipovic Says
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2010-10-20T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/croatia-s-corruption-scandal-won-t-derail-bid-to-join-eu-president-says.html
Croatian President  Ivo Josipovic 
said a widening probe of government corruption won’t derail the
country’s drive to join the European Union in 2012.  Opposition leaders yesterday filed a motion of no-
confidence in Prime Minister  Jadranka Kosor ’s government after
at least 20 senior members of the  Croatian Democratic Union ,
including former ministers, were placed under investigation for
crimes ranging from misappropriation of funds to embezzlement.  “There is a consensus in Croatia among all the main
political parties that EU entry is our chief political aim,”
Josipovic said in an interview in  Zagreb.  “All the corruption
affairs that need to be resolved add extra weight to the
situation where there already is an economic crisis, a general
lack of efficiency and inadequate civil-rights protections.”  The European Commission has demanded that Croatian
authorities do more to stamp out corruption and strengthen the
judiciary before approving the country’s bid to become the
second former Yugoslav republic to join the EU after Slovenia.  Croatia is also struggling to pull out of recession, with
the economy forecast to shrink 1.5 percent this year. While the
government expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent
in 2011, Josipovic said the administration hasn’t done enough to
pare bureaucracy that’s damping growth.  “The government’s measures to improve the economic
situation have not shown results so far,” Josipovic said Oct.
19. “The government still has to undertake some crucial
reforms, such as a radical overhaul of the tax system, as
Croatia’s income taxes are among the highest in the world.”  ‘Duty to Speak’  The 53-year-old composer and law professor was elected
Croatia’s third president in January after pledging to protect
civil rights and eradicate corruption. His duties include
ensuring the stability of the government, as well as leading the
armed forces and working with the prime minister to oversee
foreign policy.  “I don’t meddle with the government’s work, but when the
state of the country is at stake, then it is my duty to speak,”
Josipovic said. “We all talk about the reforms, but the
attitude is: Not in my back yard. Not in my town, in my
ministry, in my court of law.”  If parliamentary elections were held today, the Social
Democratic Party would win with 35 percent of the vote, followed
by the Croatian Democratic Union at 26 percent, according to an
Oct. 1 poll by  IPSOS Puls d.d.  The survey of 1,000 people had a
margin of error of 3.1 percent.  Corruption Probes  The Social Democrats, led by  Zoran Milanovic , have 55
lawmakers in the 153-seat parliament. The Croatian Democratic
Union, which rules in a coalition with the Serb minority party,
has 83 seats.  The corruption investigations began after Kosor took office
in July 2009, replacing her predecessor,  Ivo Sanader , who
resigned saying he had decided to leave politics.  Kosor, who was Sanader’s deputy, has criticized her former
boss for trying to “undermine” the government.  Lawmakers last month opened an inquiry into how Sanader’s
government transferred control of oil refiner INA Industrija
Nafte d.d. to Budapest-based Mol Nyrt. in January 2009. Terms of
the contract that allowed Mol to increase its stake in INA to
47.2 percent haven’t been released.  Sanader testified in parliament on Oct. 12 that the sale of
INA was a “collective decision” by the government and the
ruling party. Kosor, who was Sanader’s vice-premier, denied she
had any role in the transaction.  Restoring Confidence  Mladen Barisic, a former treasurer of the Croatian
Democratic Union, was arrested Sept. 29 in connection with
alleged siphoning of funds from state companies to the party. He
remains in custody after bail was denied. His lawyer, Ante
Madunic, declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  In early September, the Office for the Suppression of
Corruption and Organized Crime indicted former Deputy Premier
 Damir Polancec  and seven former executives of Podravka
Prehrambena Industrija d.d., Croatia’s largest food producer, on
charges of embezzling about $71 million. Polancec was a member
of Podrovka’s board at the time. Calls to his lawyer, Anto
Nobilo, weren’t returned.  “This creates a certain lack of trust in the government
and the institutions of power,” Josipovic said. “The only way
to overcome this and regain the people’s confidence is through
hard and honest effort.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jasmina Kuzmanovic  at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  