-- Oil May Extend Decline Beyond `Consolidation' Range: Technical Analysis
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2010-10-20T05:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/crude-oil-may-extend-drop-beyond-consolidation-range-technical-analysis.html
Oil may extend its decline below $80
a barrel after prices dropped out of a “consolidation range”
on technical charts, according to Cameron Hanover Inc.  Crude, which tumbled the most in eight months yesterday
after China unexpectedly raised interest rates, is trading below
a sideways band in place since the start of this month, said
 Peter Beutel , president of the New Canaan, Connecticut-based
energy adviser. Prices have also slipped further from the higher
of two Bollinger Bands and could approach the lower marker near
$72 a barrel before a sustained rebound, he said.  “It does now look like prices have turned away from any
serious attempt to break resistance,” Beutel said today in an
e-mailed note. “We may return to the lower end of the band
before launching another assault, but this is the most volatile
oil market, in relation to its oil factors, ever seen.”  Crude erased most of this year’s gains yesterday after
China increased borrowing costs, spurring concern of reduced
demand from the world’s biggest energy using nation. Oil for
November delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange was at
$80.31 a barrel, up 82 cents, at 12:24 p.m. Singapore time. The
more actively traded December contract was at $80.90.  Futures ended yesterday’s trading up 0.5 percent in 2010,
from 4.7 percent a day before China’s decision to boost rates to
combat inflation.  A drop below a consolidation range usually signals prices
may continue to fall and Bollinger Bands, which plot support and
resistance levels based on volatility, “can identify good
buying areas if we were to get a big enough correction,”
according to Beutel.  Last week, Cameron Hanover correctly predicted oil wouldn’t
settle above $84 a barrel because the market is “overbought.”
Prices are probably still too high given ample supply and the
pace at which global fuel consumption is recovering, Beutel
said.  “We keep wondering why prices are even here, why they are
not half these prices,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  