-- Crude Oil Futures Surge the Most in Five Weeks in N.Y. as Dollar Tumbles
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-10-20T19:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/crude-oil-increases-from-two-week-low-as-the-dollar-declines-against-euro.html
Crude oil climbed the most in five
weeks as the dollar tumbled to a 15-year low against the yen and
a government report showed a smaller-than-forecast U.S.
stockpile gain.  Oil rose 2.9 percent after the Federal Reserve said the
economy expanded at a “modest pace” in September and early
October, sending the U.S. currency lower. A weaker dollar
bolsters the appeal of raw materials to investors. An Energy
Department report showed that  supplies  rose 667,000 barrels last
week, less than half the projection in a Bloomberg News survey.  “It’s all the dollar,” said  Richard Ilczyszyn , a market
strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in Chicago. The dollar will
probably remain weak until after the Federal Reserve meeting and
the congressional elections in November, he said.  Crude oil for November delivery rose $2.28 to settle at
$81.77 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It was the
biggest gain since Sept. 10. Futures are up 3.4 percent from a
year ago.  The November contract expired today. The more-active
December futures increased $2.38, or 3 percent, to $82.54.  Brent crude oil for December settlement gained $2.50, or
3.1 percent, to end the session at $83.60 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Futures in New York tumbled 4.3 percent yesterday, the
biggest drop since Feb. 4, after an unexpected rate increase by
China’s central bank raised speculation that fuel demand will
decrease in the world’s biggest energy-consuming country.  Fed Banks  Eight Fed banks, including San Francisco and Chicago,
reported some form of growth, the Fed said today in its Beige
Book business survey by the 12 regional banks. The Philadelphia
and Richmond Fed banks said their economies were “mixed” while
the Cleveland region “held steady” and the Atlanta district
“remained slow.”  The dollar declined 0.5 percent to 81.15 yen from 81.58
yesterday. It touched 80.85, the weakest level since April 1995.
The U.S. currency fell 1.8 percent against the euro to $1.3974.  The Fed’s next meeting is on Nov. 2 and Nov. 3 in
Washington. The U.S. elections will occur on Nov. 2.  “The market reaction to the Chinese interest rate rise
doesn’t appear to have legs,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at
Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund focusing on
energy. “It’s back to reality, with the dollar on the decline
once again in advance of the coming moves by the Federal
Reserve.”  Increasing equities also bolstered the oil market.  Stocks 
rebounded from the biggest drop since August yesterday, as
higher-than-estimated results at  Boeing Co . and Yahoo! Inc.
fueled optimism in corporate earnings.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  index rose 1.3 percent to
1,180.60 at 3:26 p.m. in New York, and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  increased 1.4 percent to 11,132.15.  Inventory Projection  Total U.S. crude-oil stockpiles were  forecast  to increase
1.5 million barrels in the week ended Oct. 15, according to the
median of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Crude  inventories  at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point
for New York futures, dropped 1.05 million barrels to 34
million, the biggest decline since January. The decrease left
stockpiles at the lowest level since the week ended April 9.  “The market seems to be focusing on the draw in Cushing,”
said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures Inc.
in New York. “It’s related to the lag effect from the Enbridge
pipeline outage that we had a couple of weeks ago.”  Enbridge Energy Partners LP  shut its 6A oil pipeline, the
largest conduit linking Canada and the U.S. Midwest, from Sept.
9 to Sept. 17. Refineries took deliveries from Cushing to make
up for the missing Canadian barrels.  Distillate Inventories  Stockpiles  of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, fell 2.16 million barrels to 170.1
million, the biggest decline since March. A 1 million-barrel
decrease was forecast.  “The drop in distillate is probably the most supportive
part of the report,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of
research at PFGBest in Chicago. “It may reflect the situation
we have in France. France is importing a record amount of diesel
and this may be the first sign that it’s impacting U.S.
supply.”  French police opened three fuel depots blocked by
protesters in the country’s west and the government said imports
reached a record as ports and refineries remained shut because
of a strike. France has 213 fuel storage depots across the
country, some of which have been blocked by workers protesting a
plan to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62.  Imports  Imports of refined products rose after temporary changes in
tax and customs procedures, the government said in a statement
after a weekly cabinet meeting. France imports diesel, which
powers more than three-quarters of new cars, and exports
gasoline. Diesel shortages have been more widespread than
gasoline since the protests began.  Heating oil for November delivery rose 6.55 cents, or 3
percent, to settle at $2.2548 a gallon on the Nymex.  Oil volume on the Nymex was 685,922 contracts as of 3:14
p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 869,362 contracts yesterday, 26
percent above the average of the past three months. Open
interest was 1.42 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 