-- Cuomo Widens Lead Over Paladino in New York Race to 37 Points, Poll Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-10-20T15:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/cuomo-widens-lead-over-paladino-in-new-york-race-to-37-points-poll-says.html
Andrew Cuomo , attorney general and
Democratic candidate for  New York  governor, widened his
advantage over Republican  Carl Paladino , as Democrats led in all
five statewide races, a Siena Research Institute  poll  showed.  Cuomo is ahead of Paladino, a Buffalo real estate
developer, by 37 percentage points, up from 24 points in a 
survey of likely voters published Oct. 5.  Paladino, who has apologized for comments about
homosexuals, accusing his opponent of adultery, and e-mails that
were called obscene and racist, is a “loose cannon,” according
to 69 percent of voters. He lags behind the attorney general,
garnering the support of 26 percent of voters compared with 63
percent for Cuomo.  In other contests, “the race for attorney general to
succeed Cuomo is shaping up as a barn burner and clearly the
closest of the statewide races,” said Siena pollster  Steven Greenberg.  Democrat  Eric Schneiderman , a state senator from
Manhattan, leads Republican  Dan Donovan , a Staten Island
district attorney, by 44 percent to 37 percent, with 19 percent
of voters undecided.  Donovan has cut Schniederman’s lead in half, from 13 points
in a September survey. “The difference is that while
Schneiderman is unknown to about half of the likely voters,
Donovan remains unknown to about two-thirds of voters,”
Greenberg said.  In the race of comptroller, the state’s fiscal watchdog and
sole trustee of its pension fund, the incumbent  Thomas DiNapoli 
leads Republican challenger  Harry Wilson  49 percent to 32
percent, with 19 percent undecided. In September, DiNapoli’s
lead was 26 points.  The poll was conducted less than three weeks before
the Nov. 2 election and has an error rate of plus or minus 3.9
percentage points. The Siena institute, based in Loudonville,
New York, undertook the telephone survey Oct. 14-18 of 647
likely voters, from a sample of 1,002 registered voters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  