-- Cuomo Widens Lead Over Paladino in New York Governor Race, Siena Poll Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-10-20T18:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/cuomo-widens-lead-over-paladino-in-new-york-governor-race-siena-poll-says.html
Andrew Cuomo , the Democratic
candidate for  New York  governor, widened his advantage over
Republican  Carl Paladino  as Democrats led in all five statewide
races, a Siena Research Institute  poll  showed.  Cuomo, the state attorney general, is 37 percentage points
ahead of Paladino, a Buffalo real-estate developer, up from 24
points in a survey of likely voters published Oct. 5.  Cuomo leads Paladino 63 percent to 26 percent, according to
today’s report. Paladino, who has apologized for comments about
homosexuals, accusing his opponent of adultery, and e-mails that
were called obscene and racist, is a “loose cannon,” according
to 69 percent of voters.  In other contests, “the race for attorney general to
succeed Cuomo is shaping up as a barn burner and clearly the
closest of the statewide races,” said Siena pollster  Steven Greenberg.  Democrat  Eric Schneiderman , a state senator from
Manhattan, leads Republican  Dan Donovan , the Staten Island
district attorney, 44 percent to 37 percent, with 19 percent of
voters undecided.  Schneiderman had a 13 point advantage in a September survey
of registered voters.  “The difference is that while Schneiderman is unknown to
about half of the likely voters, Donovan remains unknown to
about two-thirds of voters,” Greenberg said.  In the race for comptroller, the state’s fiscal watchdog
and sole trustee of its pension fund, incumbent  Thomas DiNapoli 
leads Republican  Harry Wilson  49 percent to 32 percent, with 19
percent undecided. In September, DiNapoli’s lead was 26 points.  Siena, based in Loudonville, New York, polled 647 likely
voters from a sample of 1,002 registered voters Oct. 14-18. The
telephone survey has a margin for error of plus or minus 3.9
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  