-- Cuomo Seeks Ruling Against Merkin Over Madoff Fraud
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-10-20T21:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/cuomo-seeks-fraud-ruling-against-merkin-over-bernard-madoff-investments.html
New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  asked a judge to rule without trial that  Ezra Merkin  and
his Gabriel Capital Corp. engaged in fraud by secretly placing
client funds with swindler  Bernard Madoff .  Cuomo, who sued Merkin in 2009 for steering $2.4 billion to
Madoff in exchange for millions of dollars in fees, filed a
motion for summary judgment Oct. 18 in New York state Supreme
Court in Manhattan. Madoff is serving 150 years in prison after
pleading guilty in 2009 to running the biggest Ponzi scheme
ever.  The “undisputed evidence” establishes that Merkin and
Gabriel induced hundreds of people to invest in funds he
controlled by not disclosing that the funds were managed by
Madoff, according to the filing. There was misrepresentation and
concealment in offering memos, quarterly investor letters and
personal meetings, the filing said.  “The attorney general has established that defendants
engaged in ‘deceitful practices’ in violation of the Martin Act
and Executive Law,” the motion says, citing the state
securities fraud statute and the law governing persistent fraud
or illegality.  ‘Entirely Unfounded’  Andrew Levander , an attorney who represents Merkin, said in
an e-mailed statement that Cuomo’s motion for summary judgment
was “entirely unfounded” and should be denied. He also
reiterated today that the case was without merit.  “Indeed, discovery has shown that investors in the Ascot,
Gabriel and Ariel funds were not misled in connection with their
investments,” Levander said, referring to Merkin’s funds Ascot
Fund Ltd., Ascot Partners, Ariel Fund Ltd., and Gabriel Capital
LP.  Merkin, 57, and Gabriel also breached their fiduciary
duties to investors by not disclosing and investigating signs
that something was amiss with Madoff’s fund, according to
Cuomo’s filing.  The attorney general is seeking $729 million in restitution
of fees, unspecified restitution for investor losses as a result
of Madoff’s fraud, and an order prohibiting Merkin from acting
as an investment adviser or money manager in the future.  Payment of Judgments  In a separate Oct. 18 filing, Cuomo told the court that a
June 2009 order freezing Merkin and Gabriel’s assets doesn’t
permit the payment of judgments while the case is pending, nor
should it be modified.  Investors seeking judgments for arbitration awards against
Merkin disagreed.  “It would be fundamentally unjust and unfair -- and
legally without justification -- to deprive Dr. Wiederhorn of
his right to an immediately executable judgment any longer,”
Noel Wiederhorn’s attorney,  David Bamberger , wrote the court.  Wiederhorn is seeking a judgment on a $1.75 million award
in arbitration against Merkin filed before Cuomo’s suit,
according to Bamberger.  Sandalwood Debt Funds A and B, which also are awaiting
potential judgment on a $12.7 million arbitration award obtained
against Merkin, urged the court to disregard Cuomo’s argument as
well.  “The court should reject this attempt to impinge on the
rights of those investors who have most diligently pursued their
rights,” attorney Laurence B. Orloff wrote on behalf of
Sandalwood.  Prominent Charities  Investors including prominent charities entrusted their
funds to Merkin. Institutions that have alleged they were hurt
by Merkin’s investments with Madoff include New York University,
Yeshiva University and New York Law School.  When Madoff was arrested in December 2008, account
statements reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in
nonexistent investments, according to  Irving Picard , the trustee
overseeing the Madoff bankruptcy.  The Cuomo case is New York v. Merkin, 450879/2009, New York
state Supreme Court (Manhattan.) The other cases are Noel M.
Wiederhorn, MD v. Merkin,601265/2010, and Sandalwood Debt Fund
v. Merkin, 651441/2010, New York state Supreme Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 