-- `Epicenter' of Terror Gets Chinese Dam in First Step to Stability
-- B y   A n w a r   S h a k i r
-- 2010-10-21T07:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/dam-is-first-step-in-pakistani-plan-to-stabilize-epicenter-of-terrorism.html
Engineer Liu Zhangteng says he feels
“very comfortable” when he walks to work at his construction
site in the mountains of northwest Pakistan. It takes the
presence of 1,500 local soldiers to sustain his tranquility.  Liu’s employer, China’s  Sinohydro Corp. , is completing the
biggest building project in Pakistan’s tribal region along the
Afghan border, where the army is fighting Taliban militants. The
U.S.-funded Gomal Zam dam is a key part of Pakistan’s effort to
undermine the appeal of Islamic guerrillas in Waziristan, whose
northern region U.S. military chief Admiral  Mike Mullen  calls
the world’s “epicenter of terrorism.”  The dam’s troops are among tens of thousands keeping
control in South Waziristan and other areas that the army seized
back from Taliban rule last year. Pakistan’s army commander,
General  Ashfaq Parvez Kayani , is likely to underscore that
insecurity as he fends off U.S. pressure for a new offensive
during talks to conclude tomorrow in Washington, said political
analyst  Talat Masood , a retired Pakistani lieutenant general.  Pakistan’s government has failed to establish firm civilian
authority or genuine popular support in the areas it recaptured,
say Masood and  Ashraf Ali , executive director of the  FATA
Research Center  in Islamabad. Its army has stayed close to the
main roads and failed to engage Taliban who have re-infiltrated
South Waziristan, according to a White House report to Congress
quoted early this month by the New York Times and other U.S.
news organizations.  ‘Aggressive Action’  A White House statement said President  Barack Obama  joined
yesterday’s U.S.-Pakistani talks, in which the State Department
said the U.S. planned to again press Pakistan to step up attacks
on militants. “Clearly, while we’ve seen aggressive action by
the Pakistani military in recent months, more has to be done,” ,
U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said yesterday.  The dam is to generate electricity and irrigate farmland
for residents whose support the government needs for its fight
against militants. A more peaceful south may free Pakistani
troops for an offensive in North Waziristan sought by the U.S.  Construction began in 2002 and was delayed for three years
after Taliban fighters kidnapped two Chinese engineers from the
project in 2004. One died in a Pakistan army rescue operation.  The dam is 92 percent built, its project director, Colonel
Muhammad Zaheer of the army’s  Frontier Works Organization  said
in an interview at the construction site.  ‘Hopeful Part’  Its completion, plus the army’s construction of 220
kilometers (137 miles) of roads, will represent “the first time
the government has actually implemented any of its many promises
to bring development to South Waziristan,” said the FATA
center’s Ali.  “That’s the hopeful part,” Ali said.  The center studies Pakistan’s  Federally Administered Tribal
Areas  (FATA), the border zone with Afghanistan that includes
Waziristan and serves as a base for Taliban, al-Qaeda and allied
Islamic militants.  While the army occupation has brought some calm to South
Waziristan, it’s not clear whether the government can win
popular support and undercut militancy, Ali said. After years in
which the Taliban have killed 800 traditional tribal leaders in
 the FATA region , the government has been trying to establish an
anti-Taliban leadership among the local Pashtun tribes, he said.  “They have had no success,” Ali said in an Oct. 10 phone
interview. “Candidates are reluctant to come forward because
they don’t trust the government to protect them and to work
cooperatively with the tribes.”  Taliban Attacks  During a reporter’s visit last month to  South Waziristan , a
rocky, mountainous district the size of the U.S. state of
Delaware, Pakistani troops patrolled the roads in pickup trucks
mounted with machine guns. Taliban gunmen have killed at least
10 Pakistani soldiers in small-scale attacks this month,
according to reports in the newspaper Dawn -- a toll that the
army’s press office declined to confirm.  The army’s presence in South Waziristan has reduced Taliban
attacks across the border into Afghanistan’s Paktika province,
its governor, Mohibullah Samim, said in an Oct. 11 phone
interview.  On Oct. 16 last year, the army moved into South Waziristan
to clear about 10,000 Taliban guerrillas based in the homeland
of the Mehsud tribe. While other Pakistan-based Taliban mainly
fight  U.S.-led forces  in Afghanistan, the Mehsud faction had led
a domestic insurgency, hitting Pakistani government targets.  U.S. Funds  More than 200,000 Mehsud civilians -- most of the area’s
population -- fled before the fighting started and have spent
the past year as refugees in nearby districts. While the army
and government promise security and development help to those
who go home, villages remain sparsely inhabited as civilians
have resisted government appeals to return, tribal elders say.  The U.S. government  agreed in July  to pay $108 million for
the dam. It will generate 17.4 megawatts of electricity starting
next April, much of it for communities in and near South
Waziristan, the Frontier Works Organization’s Zaheer said.
Pakistan’s power production this year has fallen 5,000 megawatts
or more short of demand, the nation’s  Water and Power
Development Authority  has said.  The government’s inability to stabilize recaptured areas
such as South Waziristan and Swat, northwest of Islamabad, has
left the army “literally pinned down,” delaying the
possibility of any assault on North Waziristan, which now is the
main base for the Taliban, al-Qaeda and other militants, Mullen,
the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in an Oct.
16 interview on Bloomberg Television.  An assault on North Waziristan “could easily backfire”
and “push militants back into the south,” Masood said in a
phone interview from Islamabad.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  