-- DAX Benchmark Index Advances; BASF, Infineon Rise, Bayer Shares Decline
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-20T15:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/dax-benchmark-declines-bayer-beiersdorf-shares-slide-infineon-climbs.html
German stocks rose, as advances in
Infineon Technologies AG and  BASF SE  outweighed declines in
Bayer AG and  Beiersdorf AG .  Infineon  rose 2.1 percent after the Wall Street Journal
said it may pay a full-year dividend. BASF climbed after it
raised its profit estimate for this year. Bayer slipped 1.3
percent after U.S. regulators approved a rival’s drug, while
Beiersdorf fell 1 percent after Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
cut its recommendation on the shares.  The benchmark  DAX Index  rose 0.5 percent to 6,524.55 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The measure advanced 3.2 percent
last week as investors speculated that the U.S. Federal Reserve
will announce plans to stimulate economic growth at its November
meeting. The broader HDAX Index rose 0.6 percent today.  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said yesterday that
some gauges of U.K. inflation are “extremely subdued,”
signaling that he may be open to stepping up bond purchases.  “Investors are digesting the news from the Bank of
England, which showed support for another round of quantitative
easing in the U.K., while disappointing earnings from TomTom and
others have equity investors reducing their risk appetite a
bit,” said  Mads Koefoed , a market strategist at Saxo Bank A/S
in Copenhagen.  Infineon climbed 2.1 percent to 5.61 euros, paring two days
of losses. The chipmaker may pay a dividend for the full year
that ended Sept. 30, the Wall Street Journal reported.  BASF rose 2.6 percent to 51.93 euros, its fifth gain in six
days. The world’s biggest chemical maker raised its profit
estimate for 2010 after recovering markets helped lift third-
quarter profit beyond analysts’estimates. The company said it
sees a “good business development” in the fourth quarter, with
full-year earnings before interest, tax and special items
exceeding 8 billion euros ($11 billion).  Bayer, Germany’s largest drugmaker, dropped 1.3 percent to
54.18 euros, its fourth loss. U.S. regulators approved a blood-
thinning drug by Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, beating Bayer’s
Xarelto to the world’s biggest drug market.  Beiersdorf, Infineon  Beiersdorf tumbled 1 percent to 46.53 euros, falling for
the second day. The maker of Nivea handcream was cut to “hold”
from “buy” at RBS.  “We see no obvious catalyst for near-term share price
outperformance in the absence of forecast upgrades or M&A
activity,” RBS wrote in a note.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  slipped 0.8 percent to 14.87 euros,
extending yesterday’s 2.5 percent fall. Europe’s second-biggest
airline was cut to “neutral” from “overweight” at HSBC
Holdings Plc.  Carmaker  Daimler AG  rose 1.6 percent to 47.80 euros,
erasing yesterday’s 1.5 percent fall. Rival PSA Peugeot Citroen
advanced 2.8 percent in Paris after it raised its 2010 operating
profit forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 merritt1@bloomberg.net . 