-- Del Posto’s $500 Menu Brings Mushy Lasagne, Lousy Chips: Buzz
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2010-10-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/del-posto-s-500-menu-brings-mushy-lasagne-lousy-chips-buzz.html
Mario Batali ’s Del Posto could be
the most expensive Italian restaurant in Manhattan, if not the
U.S.  That’s the most impressive superlative I could muster after
eating my way through what looks like a 24,000 square foot
tribute to  The Venetian  hotel and casino in Vegas.  Opened in 2005, the marble-clad venue charges $95 for five
courses, $125 for seven and $500 for a wine-paired
“Collezione.” You need special dispensation to order your meal
a la carte; the menu only offers these options.  The “collection” competes with Masa for the title of the
city’s costliest meal. I would like to report that the Benjamins
are justified, that Del Posto is to pasta what Masa is to sushi,
but it isn’t. It’s not even Batali’s best (that would be the
still-brilliant Babbo). Not with a Bolognese this boring, nor
with soggy, inedible potato chips at the bar, and off-season
asparagus in October.  So there’s a problem with the prices and the pomp.  Sometimes the excess at Del Posto is nice, if irrelevant:
live piano playing could be heard when the hostess phoned to
confirm a reservation. Sometimes the excess is oppressive. I
waited several minutes during tableside service as the waiter
dispensed with some 20 pots and utensils to assemble a fine but
forgettable antipasto platter (frutti di mare, bagna cauda
salad). Everything had been cooked in the kitchen anyway.  Deja Vu  There is a $15 supplement for this pointless exercise that
only made me recall the earlier, better Del Posto. Last year
Batali and partner  Joe Bastianich  86-ed the smaller, casual
dining room and plowed $500,000 into renovations, none of which
were apparent to me as I began revisiting this summer.  Del Posto bills itself as “the ultimate expression of what
an Italian restaurant should be.” But rarely have my dining
companions and I looked at each other so often in awkward
silence and wondered, “Haven’t we had a better, cheaper version
of this elsewhere?”  We had. Pumpkin dumplings didn’t have the same bite as a
similar, $17 dish at Osteria Morini. Garganelli were coated with
such a thin Bolognese it was almost undetectable, with none of
the depth of flavor I recall having at ‘Inoteca for $16. A
seafood stew, weirdly cooler than room temperature, had little
of the satisfying Mediterranean warmth (or tasty Scottish
langoustines) as the superior version at Marea.  Phone Home  Chef Mark Ladner’s pork loin here is no better than Babbo’s
$29 chop. Other items make you wonder whether you could do
better at home. Such was the case with an acrid penne with tuna,
or a few cubes of lobster coated in tomato sauce.  And then there’s the 100-layer lasagna whose cloying sauce
and mushy texture evokes the  Hamburger Helper  dishes of my
youth. After making a reservation for the $500 “collection,” I
learned it would include that ghastly dish. Could the chef
accommodate a substitution? Nope. I cancelled.  This is not to say rustic food doesn’t have its place in
fine dining. Del Posto’s foamless fare is refreshing and some of
its Italian-American staples can’t be bested. The kitchen sends
out tiny cups of caper-spiked gazpacho to awaken the palate -- a
freebee I’d happily pay for.  Then you inhale fried calamari bathed in an absurdly rich
sauce of olive oil and cherry peppers.  A veal chop for two has no peers in its silky, medium rare
interior and its crispy, beefy exterior. The side dish? A salad
of salty, heady veal-tongue. Just as good is a tasting menu cut
of calf topped with meaty shreds of torn osso bucco.  ‘Waiter!’  A near-perfect meal starts to seem possible until service
starts to fall apart in the later hours.  Where are my drinks? On one occasion a cocktail didn’t
appear until we were almost done with our entrees. During
another visit a sommelier took my exacting order for a Manhattan
and returned with a glass of vino, which was unfortunate since
Del Posto has one of the city’s best mixology programs.  In a final embarrassment, a wine steward recommended a $62
gewurztraminer. Sold. And fine -- until it appeared as $100 on
the bill. Getting the check corrected took a degree of effort
and explanation unbefitting of the first-rate restaurant Del
Posto wants to be.  As it gets later, servers might forget to describe what
sorbets you’re eating. They might omit the final plate of
biscotti.  Better simply to come early and have a drink at the bar.
Try the Vesper, a blend of Gordon’s gin,  Jean Marc XO Vodka ,
Lillet blanc and lemon oil that somehow balances out perfectly.
That’s why I’m willing to pay the $34 price tag. It’s the best
Vesper out there. The rest of Del Posto needs work. Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Prices: Too high.  Sound Level: Too loud. 70-75 decibels.  Date Place: Try Babbo instead.  Inside tip: The must-have pasta dishes are spaghetti with
crab and scallions and agnolotti with ramp butter.  Special Feature: Great bread with house-cured lardo.  Will I be back: Maybe for the stunning cocktails.  Del Posto is at 85 10th Avenue, at 16th Street.
Information: +1-212-497-8090;  http://www.delposto.com .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 