-- Delta, US Airways Beat Estimates as Demand Buoys Fares
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-10-20T20:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/delta-air-posts-363-million-profit-as-fares-increase-in-travel-rebound.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. , American
Airlines parent AMR Corp. and  US Airways Group Inc.  posted
profits that beat analysts’ estimates, buoyed by rising fares in
what may be the industry’s best quarter since 2007.  Delta’s profit excluding some costs was $1.10 a share,
topping the 94-cent average of 13  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg, while US Airways’ $1.23 a share on that basis
exceeded the $1.17 estimate. AMR had  net income  of $143 million,
or 39 cents a share, to beat the 32-cent average estimate.  Restraint in adding seats helped Delta, American and US
Airways fill planes and boost prices after year-earlier losses,
and the  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index  jumped the most since
February. Today’s reports were the first among major carriers
for the third quarter, with most of the rest following tomorrow.  “These are three very solid beats, and it bodes well for
the rest of the group,”  Michael Derchin , a CRT Capital Group
LLC analyst in Stamford, Connecticut, said in an interview.  Combined profit at the eight biggest U.S. airlines may be
$2.1 billion to $2.4 billion, according to estimates by Derchin
and Deutsche Bank AG’s  Michael Linenberg . Earnings in that range
would be the strongest since 2007’s second quarter. Delta,
American and US Airways are ranked second, third and sixth in
the U.S. by passenger traffic.  Business Travel  Improving demand for business travel, which is typically
booked at the last minute and is more profitable than leisure
trips, is helping the industry. Atlanta-based Delta said its
yield, or the average fare for each mile flown, rose 16 percent.
AMR’s increase was 11 percent, and US Airways’ was 14 percent.  Delta rose  $1.27, or 11 percent, to $12.97 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Fort Worth, Texas-based
AMR gained 82 cents, or 13 percent, to $7.34, while  US Airways
increased  75 cents, or 7.4 percent, to $10.84.  The airlines index surged 7.2 percent for the biggest
advance in eight months. All 11 carriers in the gauge climbed.  Delta said third-quarter sales jumped 18 percent to $8.95
billion, led by a recovery in travel to Asia and Europe.
Including what Delta said were one-time costs, third-quarter net
income was $363 million, or 43 cents a share, after a year-
earlier loss of $161 million, or 19 cents.  Delta’s Costs  The one-time items were $360 million, mostly non-cash, for
extinguishment of debt; $153 million related to getting rid of
more than 50 planes at its Comair regional unit; and $53 million
in expenses from its 2008 acquisition of Northwest Airlines
Corp., Delta said today in a statement.  Fourth-quarter seating capacity will increase by 5 percent
to 7 percent from a year earlier, Delta said, with more flying
to be done by existing aircraft and some jets pulled from
temporary storage. That eases what Delta has called “very
significant and sharp” reductions during the recession.  The profit at AMR snapped seven straight quarterly losses,
including a year-earlier loss of $359 million, or $1.26 a share.
Sales rose 14 percent to $5.84 billion.  Passenger traffic rose 3.7 percent, American said today in
a statement. Capacity this quarter at the airline’s main jet
operations will increase 3.4 percent from a year earlier.  American’s improved yield “was driven by business
travelers returning to the skies, combined with the many changes
we have made to our network, product and service,” Chief
Executive Officer  Gerard Arpey  said in a message to employees.  AMR in Los Angeles  AMR said it would boost daily departures from Los Angeles
by 28 percent, to 153, by April 5. The 33 new flights will
bolster American in Los Angeles, which has the fewest trips
among the carrier’s five “cornerstone” U.S. cities.  Demand from domestic customers and international corporate
accounts helped spur the decision, Chief Commercial Officer
 Virasb Vahidi  said in an interview.  US Airways reported net income of $240 million, or $1.22 a
share, compared with a loss of $80 million, or 60 cents. That
total was a third-quarter record for the Tempe, Arizona-based
carrier, which said passenger traffic rose 2.8 percent. Sales
rose 17 percent to $3.18 billion.  US Airways said it expects to begin hiring flight
attendants in early 2011, after recalling all its attendants who
were previously furloughed. The carrier said earlier it would
bring back 300 pilots and flight attendants.  “This quarter’s results are a watershed event,” CEO  Doug Parker  told analysts and investors on a conference call. “With
oil over $80, an economy that’s slowly and begrudgingly pulling
out of recession, the airline industry is reporting record
profits while the rest of U.S. industries are not. That has not
happened before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 