-- Deutsche Bank May Expand Japan Iron Ore, Coal Sales to Meet Hedging Demand
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2010-10-20T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/deutsche-bank-considers-expanding-japan-coal-iron-ore-derivative-business.html
Deutsche Bank AG  may expand the
sale of coal and iron ore cargoes and derivatives in Japan to
meet growing demand from steelmakers and utilities for hedging
the commodities against price swings.  Germany’s largest lender is studying ways to increase
sales of a package of physical products such as power-station
coal and the iron ore, together with the financial derivatives,
 Kenichiro Yamaguchi , the head of the commodities sales at
Deutsche Securities Inc., said in an interview yesterday.  An increase in the trading of coal for immediate delivery
and iron ore swaps in Japan has prompted U.S. and European
banks including Barclays Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. to boost
their commodities businesses. Japanese steelmakers are joining
utilities, oil refiners and airlines in seeking to mitigate
risks from fluctuating fuel and material costs.  “The growth of the iron ore swaps market in Japan is
kicking in following an expansion in other Asian markets,”
Yamaguchi said. “What we are looking to offer Japanese
customers is what we are now providing to global customers,
that is, those products available in global commodities markets.
Ultimately the integration of physical and commodities
derivatives is where we want to get to.”  Deutsche Bank started offering iron-ore swaps with Credit
Suisse Group AG in 2008 at the instigation of BHP Billiton Ltd.,
the world’s biggest mining company, which was dissatisfied with
the pricing method in the estimated $200 billion-a-year market.
 Vale SA , Rio Tinto Group and BHP, the three biggest suppliers,
this year scrapped a 40-year practice of setting prices
annually in favor of quarterly contracts.  Chubu Boost  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank aims to grow its Tokyo
commodities sales division in the years ahead, depending on the
needs of Japanese clients and investors in exposure to
commodities, Yamaguchi said without elaborating.  Trading in Japan’s coal market was boosted by Chubu
Electric Power Co., the nation’s third-biggest utility. The
Nagoya-based company transacted 15 million metric tons of over-
the-counter coal swaps at Australia’s Newcastle port in the
year ended March 31 after forming an alliance with a unit of
Electricite de France SA in 2007, Yoshito Komura, director of
Chubu’s trading unit, said in April.  Yamaguchi joined Deutsche Bank in February after working
at Mitsubishi Corp.’s London-based Petro-Diamond Risk
Management Ltd. since 2003 as president and chief operating
officer. Prior to that he led a commodity desk at the Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi’s London office for about five years. The bank
merged with UFJ Bank in 2005 to form the Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Yuji Okada  in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 