-- Deutsche Bank Wins `Most Parts' of Appeals Case Over Boersig Appointment
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-10-20T14:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/deutsche-bank-wins-most-parts-of-appeals-case-over-boersig-appointment.html
Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest
lender, won “most parts” of an appeals case over decisions at
its 2007 shareholder meeting, the Frankfurt Higher Regional
Court said in an e-mailed statement today.  The court upheld the meeting’s decision to confirm the
election of  Clemens Boersig  to the bank’s supervisory board as
well the 2006 annual financial statement. The court struck down
the meeting’s vote to discharge the management and supervisory
boards from liability for the year.  The suit is one of about a dozen filed by  Leo Kirch , the
German businessman who blames  Deutsche Bank  for the collapse of
his media empire. In June, Deutsche Bank lost an appeals court
ruling by a different chamber of the same court over votes at
its 2008 shareholder meeting, including the re-election of
Boersig to its supervisory board.  A spokesman for Kirch, who declined to be identified, said
he couldn’t comment because he hadn’t received the written
judgment. Deutsche Bank also declined to comment.  Contrary to the June ruling, the judges today held that
Deutsche Bank properly invited shareholders to the meeting.
Because two chambers of the same court differ over the issue,
the court allowed the plaintiff to appeal to the Federal Court
of Justice, Germany’s highest tribunal in matters of civil law.  Kirch started a legal battle against the lender after the
bank’s former chief executive officer  Rolf Breuer  commented
about the creditworthiness of Kirch’s former media group on
Bloomberg TV in February 2002. Kirch has sued the bank over each
annual shareholder meeting at Deutsche Bank since 2003.  “Like several rulings of other chambers of this court, the
judges held there was no need to make provisions for a damage
claim by Kirch Group based on an interview of Deutsche Bank’s
former chief executive,” the court said.  Today’s case is OLG Frankfurt, 23 U 121/08.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  