-- Dollar Tumbles on Concern Fed's Beige Book to Show Slower Economic Growth
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-10-20T16:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/dollar-falls-on-concern-fed-s-beige-book-survey-will-show-slowing-recovery.html
The dollar dropped to a 15-year low
against the yen and fell the most versus the euro since July on
concern the Federal Reserve’s regional business survey will show
a slowing recovery, damping demand for the U.S. currency.  The greenback slid against most of its major counterparts
before the release of the Beige Book report as traders
speculated the central bank will increase purchases of
government debt to support the economy. The dollar rose
yesterday for a third day as China’s unexpected increase in
borrowing costs discouraged risk demand.  “After a small correction over the last couple of days,
you’re seeing people get back to the theme of shorting the
dollar,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “Everyone seems to be
focused on quantitative easing and the Fed’s Beige Book.”  The dollar fell 0.6 percent to 81.08 yen at 12:35 p.m. in
New York, from 81.58 yesterday, after dropping to 80.85, the
lowest level since April 1995. The dollar depreciated 1.7
percent to $1.3963 per euro, from $1.3727 yesterday, after
sliding 1.9 percent in the biggest intraday drop since July 1.
The euro gained 1.1 percent to 113.22 yen, from 112 yen.  The dollar extended its losses on speculation a report by
Medley Global Advisors, a consulting firm used by hedge funds,
said the Fed will buy back more assets than expected.  Hannah Little , a spokeswoman at Medley, declined to comment.  “There’s a report out that suggests that we might see far
greater quantitative easing,” said  John McCarthy , director of
currency trading at ING Groep NV in New York. “That in essence
caused the dollar to sell off.”  Drop in Pound  Sterling slid 0.7 percent to 88.04 pence per euro as
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  detailed the deepest
budget cuts ever in Britain. The government is poised to
eliminate 500,000 public-sector jobs and impose a levy on banks
to extract the “maximum sustainable” revenue.  Minutes of the Bank of England’s last meeting showed policy
makers voted 7-1-1 to keep the benchmark interest rate at 0.5
percent and the bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds ($315
billion).  Canada’s currency rose for the first time in five days,
adding 1 percent to C$1.0235 per U.S. dollar as a gain in stocks
and raw materials indicated demand for assets related to
economic growth. The loonie has dropped 2.5 percent since
trading stronger than parity with the greenback on Oct. 14 for
the first time since April.  U.S. stocks rose, pushing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
up 1.3 percent. Crude oil for November delivery increased 2.5
percent to $81.45 a barrel.  Brazilian Real  The real rose for the first time in five days, gaining 0.4
percent to 1.6762 per dollar. Brazil’s central bank will keep
its benchmark overnight rate unchanged at 10.75 percent today,
according to all 51 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Brazil stepped up on Oct. 18 efforts to curb gains in the
real by announcing an increase in inflow taxes, saying it may be
forced to take additional measures as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  called for an end to the worldwide “currency war.”  The Australian dollar rose for the first time in four days
as traders used its drop to the lowest level in two weeks to buy
the currency on speculation the nation’s central bank will raise
interest rates.  The Aussie rose 1 percent to 97.79 U.S. cents, from 96.86
cents yesterday, when it touched 96.62 cents, the least since
Oct. 5. It reached parity with the greenback on Oct. 15 for the
first time since exchange controls were removed in 1983.  Merkel’s View  The euro was supported versus the dollar as Germany’s
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said in Berlin that governments must
find an “exit strategy” from stimulus spending as the global
financial crisis recedes.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro, yen, pound and Canadian
dollar, fell 1.4 percent to 77.107.  The gauge of the greenback has dropped 10 percent since the
end of June on speculation the Fed will increase asset purchases
in a practice known as quantitative easing.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said yesterday in
Evanston, Illinois, that the central bank will need to buy
securities on a large scale several times to carry out his
preferred strategy of aiming to raise inflation temporarily. The
Beige Book is due to be released at 2 p.m. New York time.  “I expect the Beige Book to indicate further softness in
economic activity throughout the country as 10 percent
unemployment continues to be a major hurdle for economic
growth,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in
New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the world’s largest
custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion in assets under
administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  