-- Dollar Falls as Fed Statement on Recovery Fuels Asset-Buying Speculation
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-10-20T21:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/dollar-drops-to-15-year-low-versus-yen-as-fed-cites-modest-u-s-recovery.html
The dollar declined to a 15-year low
against the yen and fell the most versus the euro since July as
a Federal Reserve regional survey showed the economy expanded in
September at a “modest pace.”  The greenback slid against all of its major counterparts
except Taiwan’s dollar as traders speculated that the central
bank will increase purchases of government debt to support the
economy. The Australian and Canadian dollars and the Norwegian
krone rallied as commodities gained.  “It’s a relatively soft report and reinforces the need for
the Fed to increase stimulus in November,” said  Kathy Lien ,
director of currency research at the online trader GFT Forex in
New York. “It reinforces the theme in the market that’s driving
the dollar lower.”  The dollar fell 0.6 percent to 81.09 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York, from 81.58 yesterday, after declining to 80.85, the lowest
level since April 1995, when the post-World War II low of 79.75
was set. The dollar slid 1.7 percent to $1.3964 per euro, from
$1.3727 yesterday, after falling 1.9 percent in the biggest
intraday drop since July 1. The euro gained 1.1 percent to
113.31 yen, from 112 yen.  Canada’s currency rose for the first time in five days,
adding 1.2 percent to C$1.0210 per U.S. dollar as a gain in
stocks and raw materials indicated demand for assets related to
economic growth. The loonie has dropped 1.7 percent since
trading stronger than parity with the greenback on Oct. 14 for
the first time since April.  Gain in Stocks  U.S. stocks rose, pushing the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
up 1.1 percent. Crude oil for November delivery increased 2.9
percent to $81.77 a barrel.  Australia’s dollar gained 1.9 percent to 98.71 U.S. cents
after touching 96.62 cents yesterday, the lowest level since
Oct. 5. It reached parity with the greenback on Oct. 15 for the
first time since exchange controls were removed in 1983.
Norway’s krone appreciated 2 percent to 5.8265 per dollar.  The euro was supported versus the dollar as Germany’s
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said in Berlin that governments must
find an “exit strategy” from stimulus spending as the global
financial crisis recedes.  The 16-nation currency gained against the Swiss franc for
the first time in four days, rising 0.7 percent to 1.3429.  The euro may erase a one-month rally against the franc if
it falls below support and forms a head-and-shoulders pattern,
according to Barclays Plc.  Euro Versus Franc  A drop in the euro below 1.3260 Swiss francs would push the
euro down toward 1.3165 and 1.3070, Barclays analysts led by
 Jordan Kotick  in New York wrote in a research note to clients
today. The franc has fallen 2.7 since Sept. 15, a day before the
Swiss National Bank cut its inflation outlook.  A head-and-shoulders pattern is formed by three consecutive
peaks on a chart, with the middle being the highest. A breach of
a neckline connecting the base of the three peaks, also a
support level, may signal the reversal of a trend.  Taiwan’s dollar was the only currency to fall among the
greenback’s 16 major counterparts tracked by Bloomberg. The
currency slid 0.1 percent to NT$30.88 versus the U.S. dollar a
day after China’s first interest-rate increase since 2007 dimmed
the island’s outlook for exports.  The currency has increased 2.5 percent in the past month as
near-zero interest rates in the U.S. attracted investors to
emerging markets such as Taiwan.  The yen traded stronger than 82.88 per dollar, where it
traded on Sept. 15 when Japan acknowledged selling the currency
to help its export-dependent economy.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index , used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 1.4 percent to 77.13. It gained 1.6
percent yesterday as China’s increase in borrowing costs damped
demand for assets related to economic growth.  The dollar remained lower as the Fed said today in its
Beige Book business survey by the 12 regional banks that 8 of
them, including San Francisco and Chicago, reported some form of
growth. The Philadelphia and Richmond Feds said their economies
were “mixed” while the Cleveland region “held steady” and
the Atlanta district “remained slow.”  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker 
said a new round of asset purchases by the central bank “would
be a hard case to make” with economic growth in line with his
outlook.  The Beige Book report released by the Fed today shows
“what I expected several months ago,” which is an economic
expansion of about 2 percent during the second half, Lacker told
reporters in College Park, Maryland. He said he would make up
his mind on monetary policy when Fed officials meet in two
weeks.  Inflation Concern  Concerns that inflation will accelerate and the U.S.
economy will weaken are among the reasons for declines in the
dollar,  Charles Plosser , president of the Philadelphia Fed, said
in response to questions after a speech today in Philadelphia.  The dollar extended its drop earlier today on speculation a
report by Medley Global Advisors, a consulting firm used by
hedge funds, said the central bank will buy back more assets
than expected.  Hannah Little , a spokeswoman at Medley, declined
to comment.  “There’s a report out that suggests that we might see far
greater quantitative easing,” said  John McCarthy , director of
currency trading at ING Groep NV in New York. “That in essence
caused the dollar to sell off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  