-- Dry Gas Pumps Become Strategic Focus for French Unions
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-20T15:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/dry-gas-pumps-are-french-union-focus-after-transport-strike-action-fails.html
A service station near Place de la
Madeleine in central Paris had been Daniel Dayan’s last hope.  “It’s a nightmare,” the lawyer said, as he drove past the
emptied diesel pump, resigned to taking a taxi to the airport.  For Dayan and countless other French people, the strikes
and protests against President Nicolas Sarkozy’s plan to raise
the country’s minimum retirement age to 62 from 60 have meant
serpentine lines at gas stations.  Unlike in the 1990s when strikes paralyzed  France , a
limited impact from efforts to disrupt trains, planes and
schools has led unions to strategically focus their attention on
oil and gas supplies to get the attention of the government.  France’s 11 active refineries remain on strike and about 40
percent of the country’s 12,000 service stations have run out of
some oil products. Striking port workers are blocking crude
imports while oil industry union members are barricading some of
the country’s 213 fuel depots, crippling distribution networks
and leading to shortages as vehicle owners stock up.  The labor action, led by the  Confederation Generale du
Travail , the biggest union among refinery, port, gas and power
workers, has prompted police to break up barricades at fuel
depots. Sarkozy today called for the removal of blockades at all
fuel depots in the country. The government is ordering workers
back on the job at the Grandpuits refinery near Paris.  “It’s not a coincidence that it’s the energy supply
centers that are paralyzed,” said Bernard Vivier, director of
Paris-based researcher Superior Institute of Labor. “The
bastions of CGT power lie at centers of production. The ideology
to take control of the economy comes from historic ties with the
Communist Party.”  ‘Irresponsible’  French power prices jumped to their highest since January
2009 after strikers today and yesterday cut output at
Electricite de France SA’s nuclear reactors. Gasoline in  Europe ’s oil-trading hub of Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp have
risen 11 percent since the French port strike began.  Energy and ports workers in the CGT are more “radical”
than the union’s leader  Bernard Thibault , Vivier said. “The CGT
leadership has lost control of certain sectors.”  The radicalized elements are turning into a major headache
for the government.  “I have ordered blockades to be lifted at all fuel depots
so we can get back to normal,” Sarkozy said in a statement
today. “If they don’t end soon, this chaos could paralyze the
country and affect jobs as well as hurting economic activity.”  Police ended blockades of three depots in western France
this morning, Interior Minister  Brice Hortefeux  said.  ‘Not Waning’  “We are in a confrontational mode,” said Emmanuel Lepine,
federal secretary of the CGT’s petrochemicals branch. “There
are no talks on with the government. The determination of
workers is not waning. Refinery workers may be in the forefront,
but we aren’t isolated.”  The CGT has redoubled fund-raising efforts in recent days
for a fund to support strikers, according to Lepine.  French  oil companies  will share supplies and transport to
combat shortages, said Jean-Louis Schilansky, head of refiners’
group  Union Francaise des Industries Petrolieres , which
represents oil companies including  Total SA  and  Exxon Mobil
Corp . The cost of the strike at the Marseille oil terminals
alone is more than 100 million euros ($138 million), he said.  “It will take four to five days to get back to normal,”
Transport Minister Dominique Bussereau said today. “There’s a
bit of a cat and mouse game going on at the depots but we will
restore the situation.”  Weak Strikes  The focus on the  energy industry  also highlights the
weakness of strikes in other sectors. While the protests are
backed by 67 percent of respondents in a poll by Viavoice
conducted on Oct. 14 and 15, fewer workers are willing to forgo
a day’s pay, union membership has lost its allure and shutting
down the country isn’t popular.  Yesterday was the fourth national strike and the sixth day
of protest in two months against the pension bill, which raises
the age for a full pension to 67 from 65. French senators will
vote as soon as tomorrow on Sarkozy’s retirement plan.  While the demonstrations yesterday brought about 1.1
million people to the streets across France, the Labor Ministry
said only 7.4 percent of government workers, excluding
education, were on strike, down from 18.6 percent on Oct. 12.  In December 1995 and November 2007, French unions brought
all transport and public services to a standstill for more than
a week. Yesterday, metros in Paris ran normally.  Strategic Industry  The current strike is the second this year led by  Charles Foulard , the CGT representative at Total’s six French
refineries. Foulard, in his trademark red beanie, spearheaded a
week-long walkout in February at Total refineries over the oil
company’s plan to shut its crude processing plant near Dunkirk.  The February labor action threatened fuel shortages and
ended only after intervention from Sarkozy and a pledge from
Total not to close any more refineries in France for five years.  The CGT’s port workers’ and energy and mines’ branches have
also led strikes in recent years at the oil terminals of the
port of Marseille as well as Electricite de France SA, with
walkouts at French nuclear plants last year.  “It’s a low blow because we are a strategic industry,”
the UFIP’s Schilansky said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy 
at   wkenned3@bloomberg.net  