-- E*Trade Matches Estimates as Loss Provisions Decline
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-10-20T22:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/e-trade-financial-profit-matches-estimates-as-loan-loss-provisions-decline.html
E*Trade Financial Corp. , the fourth-
largest U.S. retail brokerage by client assets, reported
quarterly profit that met analyst estimates after setting aside
less money for future loan defaults.  Third-quarter net income was $8.4 million, or 3 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $854.7 million, or $6.74 a share,
a year earlier, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. That matched the 3-cent average analyst  projection ,
according to a Bloomberg survey. Sales after loan-loss
provisions are deducted totaled $337.4 million, beating the
 average analyst estimate  by 7.1 percent, Bloomberg data show.  The online brokerage returned a profit for the first time
since 2007 in the second quarter after E*Trade set aside less
money for defaulted loans. Part of the company’s revenue depends
on trading volume, which last quarter was the slowest marketwide
for U.S. equities since at least 2008.  E*Trade’s performance measures for August “were
encouraging in terms of delinquency trends, but highlight the
particularly weak trading activity this summer,”  Chris Ross , a
New York-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., wrote in a note
last month. He said he saw “improving delinquency trends
outweighing the sluggish trading activity.”  Provisions for future loan losses shrank to $152 million
last quarter from $165.7 million in the second quarter, E*Trade
said in the statement today.  Trading Volume  Revenue shrank 15 percent to $489.4 million from the year-
ago period. E*Trade handled a daily average of 126,530 revenue-
generating trades, or 30 percent less than in the third quarter
of 2009.  Stock-trading volume  across all markets slid in the
third quarter, with 7.66 billion shares changing hands each day
on average. That’s 18 percent less than the same period a year
earlier and the lowest daily average for a quarter in data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to June 2008.  The fourth-quarter has seen “some trading coming back,”
Chief Executive Officer  Steven Freiberg  said in an interview
today. He added that he expects an industry-wide increase in
daily average revenue trading of about 6 percent after this
year, and E*Trade will aim for a higher growth rate.  E*Trade had $490 million in cash as of Sept. 30, up about
1.9 percent from three months earlier, according to today’s
statement. Freiberg said that though he hasn’t determined
whether or how to deploy capital, he may consider buying back
shares or paying off debt due soon. The company spends about
$170 million per year servicing the debt, he said on a
conference call with analysts.  Charles Schwab Corp.,  based in San Francisco, posted
quarterly earnings that beat estimates on Oct. 15 as interest
earned and asset-management fees offset the trading slowdown.
Omaha, Nebraska-based TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. may report
fiscal fourth-quarter profit of  23 cents a share  on Oct. 26,
according to analysts.  The shares declined 1 percent to $14.60 at 5:59 p.m. in New
York time. They have declined 16 percent in 2010, compared with
a 5.5 percent loss in the NYSE Arca Broker/Dealer Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 