-- East Europe Must Reduce Deficits and Nurture Growth, IMF Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2010-10-20T12:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/east-europe-must-reduce-deficits-repair-banks-to-nurture-growth-imf-says.html
East European governments must cut
deficits and repair banking systems to spur economic growth
after the financial crisis that pushed some countries close to
default, the International Monetary Fund said.  “Now that the region is finally recovering, it would be a
good time to start with fiscal consolidation and in the next few
years get deficits back to more sustainable levels,”  Bas Bakker , chief of the IMF’s emerging Europe division, said in an
interview today in Vienna today after the Washington-based
lender released its regional economic outlook.  The former communist countries of Europe and central Asia
are recovering from their deepest recessions since switching to
free-market policies, after cheap credit helped growth average 5
percent annually in the years before the credit crunch.  The IMF
provided more than $70 billion of loans to the region during the
crisis, making it the largest recipient of bailouts.  Hungary, Latvia, Ukraine, Romania and Serbia all received
loans as they faced defaults and struggled to refinance debt,
often denominated in foreign currencies. The region received
more than $100 billion in total, including aid from the European
Union and World Bank.  The IMF expects the region’s economies to grow 3.8 percent
in 2010 and 3.9 percent next year after gross domestic product
shrank 6 percent in 2009 as capital inflows came to a halt.  “Policy makers in emerging Europe face the difficult
challenge of dealing with the legacies of the crisis, while not
hurting the recovery,” the IMF said in its report. The tasks
include “reducing fiscal deficits to secure sustainable debt”
and “repairing banking systems while reviving credit.”  ‘Healthy’ Balances  The financial crisis unmasked the underlying fiscal
problems in east Europe, the IMF said.  While increasing tax
receipts led to “healthy” budget balances during the boom
years, expenditures were growing rapidly, according to the IMF.  Budget deficits across emerging Europe averaged 6 percent
of GDP last year compared with zero in 2008, the IMF said.
Average public debt levels swelled to 30 percent of GDP from 24
percent. The average deficit will narrow to 5.2 percent this
year and 4.1 percent in 2011, with debt climbing to 30.8 and
32.1 percent, respectively, the IMF forecasts.  “With deficits still at very high levels, and a permanent
loss in revenues resulting from the end of the demand boom, it
is clear that substantial fiscal consolidation is needed over
the next few years,” even if it hurts growth in the short term,
according to the report.  Countries with “high fiscal vulnerabilities” must move
swiftly to cut deficits and avoid being punished by financial
markets, because investors are more focused on public finances
after the euro region debt crisis, the IMF said. Deficit-cutting
programs that rely on reducing spending rather than increasing
revenue will be less harmful for growth, according to the fund.  ‘Credible’ Policies  Fiscal policies can help revive credit growth while banks
are repairing balance sheets impaired by the growth in
delinquent loans, the IMF said.  “Credible macroeconomic policies would also make it
possible to keep policy interest rates low, which would not only
stimulate demand for credit, but would also encourage bank
funding” and limit the reliance on foreign currency financing,
the IMF said. “Creditless recoveries in GDP growth are
generally slow and shallow.”  The region also needs investment in manufacturing to shift
growth away from services and construction, which propelled
economies in the boom years, according to the report. Companies
must develop new markets for manufactured goods and services,
which will require a shift in government policies, the IMF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net ; 