-- EBay Forecasts Revenue Higher Than Estimates
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-10-20T22:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/ebay-forecasts-revenue-higher-than-estimates-as-holidays-near-shares-rise.html
EBay Inc. , owner of the second-most
visited e-commerce site, forecast fourth-quarter sales and
earnings that exceeded analysts’ predictions as more consumers
used the PayPal payments service and a turnaround effort by
Chief Executive Officer  John Donahoe  began taking hold.  Sales will be $2.39 billion to $2.49 billion this quarter,
San Jose, California-based EBay said today in a statement.
Profit excluding certain costs will be 45 cents to 48 cents a
share. Analysts projected revenue of $2.41 billion and earnings
of 44 cents, the averages in a Bloomberg survey. EBay also
boosted full-year forecasts and its shares rose in late trading.  Donahoe , halfway through a three-year campaign to revive
growth, has cut listing fees to lure sellers and taken steps to
make the main Marketplaces commerce site easier to use. EBay
also benefits as more consumers make purchases online and use
PayPal to handle payments.  “There is a lot of positivity here,” said  Sandeep Aggarwal , an analyst at Caris & Co. in San Francisco. “This is
clearly an indication that the EBay turnaround is becoming more
compelling.”  EBay rose $1.85 to $27.51 in extended trading. It had
climbed 13 cents to $25.66 on the  Nasdaq Stock Market . The stock
has gained 9.1 percent this year.  Boosted Forecast  Third-quarter  profit  excluding costs was 40 cents a share,
compared with 37 cents, the average of analysts’ predictions.
The costs steam from amortization of certain assets and expenses
related to stock-based compensation and the sale of Skype
Technologies SA, EBay said. Third-quarter sales rose to $2.25
billion. Analysts had projected revenue of $2.18 billion.  Net income rose 24 percent to $431.9 million, or 33 cents 
a share, from $349.7 million, or 27 cents, a year earlier.  EBay raised full-year forecasts. Profit excluding certain
costs will be $1.67 to $1.70 a share and sales will be $9.05
billion to $9.15 billion. In July, EBay predicted per-share
earnings of as high as $1.65 and sales as high as $9 billion.  Retail spending in the U.S. will increase 2.3 percent to
$447.1 billion in November and December, the best yearend in
four years, according to the National Retail Federation.  “EBay’s core EBay.com website is one of the premier e-
commerce properties in the world,”  Fred Moran , an analyst at
Benchmark Co., said in a note to investors this week. “As e-
commerce recovers, growth should accelerate on EBay’s
Marketplace.”  EBay also benefited from growing demand for its PayPal
payment processing unit. Revenue from the division that includes
PayPal rose 22 percent to $838.2 million. Total payment volume
rose 26 percent to $22.4 billion.  PayPal Gains  PayPal accounts for about 37 percent of  EBay’s revenue  and
will eventually be larger than EBay’s e-commerce sites, Donahoe
has said. PayPal is holding a  conference  next week to encourage
developers to build systems that handle purchase and sales of
so-called virtual goods.  “PayPal is in the best position of any payment solutions
to become the de facto currency on the Web,” said  Jordan  Rohan,
an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  Since PayPal made its software more widely available last
year, developers have generated more than $30 million in payment
volume, Donahoe said in April.  PayPal, which estimates it controls about 10 percent of the
online payments market, is likely to introduce a mobile version
of its online checkout service for merchants by the end of the
month, according to ThinkEquity LLC.  Steps in ‘Marathon’  A big part of Donahoe’s effort to revive growth is in
making the main e-commerce site easier to access. Donahoe, who
replaced  Meg Whitman  as CEO in March 2008, has enlisted
engineers to overhaul 25 million lines of software code on
EBay’s Marketplaces.  “We still have an enormous amount of work to do,” Donahoe
said in an interview. “Today was just another positive step
forward in what’s a marathon.”  EBay is conducting an external search for an executive to
replace  Lorrie Norrington , who was in charge of Markeplaces
since 2008. Under Norrington, who’s leaving for family reasons,
EBay lowered listing fees for items and transitioned away from
auction sales, which are losing popularity, to focus on fixed-
price listings.  The changes have led to a surge in the number of products
offered on the site, though revenue growth hasn’t kept pace. The
conversion rate, or the number of visits that result in sales,
at EBay sites declined 1.3 percentage points to 28.5 percent in
the third quarter from the second quarter, according to Majestic
Research LLC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  