-- ECB Should Renew Monetary Support If Recovery Stalls, IMF Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-10-20T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/ecb-should-be-ready-to-renew-monetary-support-if-recovery-stalls-imf-says.html
The European Central Bank should
remain poised to extend non-conventional policies if the euro
region’s economic recovery stutters, the International Monetary
Fund said.  “The ECB should remain ready to adjust the time horizon of
its low-interest rate policy and re-deploy extraordinary
monetary measures if the recovery should stall unexpectedly,”
the Washington-based lender said today in its latest regional
economic outlook for Europe.  The comments come after ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
and Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  publicly disagreed over
whether to end the central bank’s bond-purchase program, which
was first implemented in May to counter the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis. Weber on Oct. 13 called for an end to the program
that has provided a lifeline to European governments and banks
trying to restore their finances, an idea Trichet rejected.  “This is not the position of the Governing Council, with
an overwhelming majority,” Trichet said when asked to comment
on Weber’s remarks, according to a transcript of an interview
published by Italian newspaper La Stampa on Oct. 17.  Weber, who also sits on the ECB’s 22-member decision-making
council, said the risk of “exiting too late” from the
emergency measures was greater than pulling out too soon. The
remarks, the strongest from any ECB official advocating a
removal of stimulus, came as governments and banks in Ireland,
Portugal and Greece struggle to convince investors they can
control their finances in the wake of this year’s debt crisis.  Praise for U.K.  The IMF praised the willingness of U.K. policy makers to
consider more support for the economy if needed. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  said Oct. 9 that he is prepared to
give a green light for more monetary stimulus if the central
bank requests it, and Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said
yesterday that some inflation gauges are “extremely subdued,”
signaling he may be open to stepping up bond purchases.  “The Bank of England, in turn, has appropriately
maintained a very expansionary stance and indicated that it will
respond flexibly to incoming data,” the IMF said in the report.  For the European economy as a whole, downside risks to
growth are increasing as the global expansion slows and
governments press ahead with deficit cutting, the IMF said.  The IMF predicted gross domestic product growth of 2.3
percent this year and 2.2 percent next in all of Europe,
including a 2010 expansion of 1.7 percent in the region’s
developed economies and 3.9 percent in its emerging ones.  The forecast included growth of 1.7 percent in both the
euro area and the U.K. in 2010, the IMF said. Switzerland’s
economy is set to grow 2.9 percent this year and 1.7 percent
next year.  “In Switzerland, the main policy challenge will be to
allow interest rates to increase over time, in an environment
where the currency faces appreciation pressures,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  