-- Hedge Funds Short Plaza Accord Deal With China: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-10-20T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/hedge-funds-short-plaza-accord-deal-with-china-william-pesek.html
Of all the things Timothy Geithner
expected when becoming U.S. Treasury secretary, examining a
periodic table probably wasn’t one of them.  Obsessing over the chemical elements is exactly what
Geithner and his staff will be doing in the months ahead. The
New York Times reports  China  is quietly halting shipments of
crucial minerals to the U.S. and  Europe , after doing the same to
Japan, and it’s a big deal for politicians and investors alike.  The news trumped China’s surprise decision to raise  interest rates  this week. It’s a sign that economic cooperation
is becoming a quaint concept as China’s clout increases. It’s
also the latest reminder that anyone betting on a Plaza Accord-
like currency deal next month is dreaming.  China’s policies on the yuan and rare earths are more
connected than meets the eye, and both contain the same message
for the developed world: Stop whining and get on with Plan B.  Hedge-fund managers are shorting the Group of 20’s chances
of getting China to boost the yuan. At a conference hosted by
 Bloomberg Link  in  Hong Kong  this week, I didn’t meet a single
hedge-fund manager who expects big news out of the G-20 meeting
in  Seoul  next month. Nor did I meet any who thought China would
reconsider its evolving policy of rationing out the raw
materials vital to everything from hybrid cars to laptops to  wind turbines  to weapons to iPhones.  Global Obsession  China’s currency is an obsession of the economics
community. From  Washington  to Tokyo, the talk is about prodding
China to revalue as the 1985 Plaza Accord did with the yen. It
is seen as a crucial step in reducing the biggest imbalances
plaguing the world economy -- an argument China isn’t buying. As
a developing economy with a mostly poor workforce, China sees an
undervalued currency as a necessary evil.  Similarly, China appears to view its control of about 97
percent of production of rare-earth materials as an advantage
that is too good to pass up. On the one hand, it needs lots of
those minerals to feed its growth. On the other, it is finding
this monopoly to be very useful geopolitically.  The world has a choice here. It can complain and stomp its
feet in a futile attempt to get China to reverse course. Or it
can accept the reality of our new world order and adapt. The
U.S., for example, is free to retaliate with tariffs on Chinese
imports. Yet protectionism is no wiser an option today than it
was in the 1930s when the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act deepened the
Great Depression.  Fresh Jobs  Americans should accelerate efforts to create fresh jobs
and educate a workforce that is becoming out of step with the
direction of the world economy. And besides, Geithner could
always beat China at its own game and aggressively devalue the
dollar if he wanted to.  The rare-earths issue is more complicated. Japanese
officials say such supplies have been restricted following a
dispute between the two countries over a Chinese fishing-boat
collision with Japanese Coast Guard vessels last month. China
sees fit to provoke international laws so long as its 10 percent
growth isn’t threatened. While it’s not right, it is what it is.  The rare-earths story shows how the battle against global
warming is turning into a real blood-and-guts fight for dollars
and jobs. A new report commissioned by  Australia ’s  Climate
Institute  shows China is a surprise leader in the pursuit of
clean energy. China is second only to the U.K. in offering
incentives to cut pollution created from electricity generation.  Industrial Evolution  As the world’s top polluter, China should be redoubling
efforts. Yet China will be installing thousands of wind
turbines, all of which will need rare earths. China isn’t just
working to improve its  air quality  -- it’s investing in the next
generation of jobs.  Industrial evolution always leads to structural shifts in
commodity consumption. We had the Stone Age, the Bronze Age, the
Iron Age and the ages of aluminum and copper, too. Technology’s
current obsession with miniaturization will accelerate the need
for alternatives to rare earths, creating more business
opportunities. Investment choices for  hedge funds , too.  It’s fascinating that a developing country has a chance to
steal a march on the next industrial phase by controlling the
raw materials needed. It’s not clear this has even happened
before, and it’s a reminder of how upside-down the global
economy is these days.  China’s money is already financing U.S. imbalances and
offering hedge funds once-in-a-lifetime riches. That will
continue no matter how much griping accompanies the power shift.
The world should just accept the inevitable and adjust to the
next wave of industrialization.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Hong Kong at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  