-- Legal Pot, Tax Cuts on Ballots as 36 States Weigh Referendums
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-10-20T15:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/legalizing-pot-tax-cuts-on-ballots-as-36-u-s-states-consider-referendums.html
Legalizing marijuana in  California ,
cutting sales taxes in  Massachusetts  and preventing  Colorado 
from borrowing money head a list of ballot referendums in 36
states on Nov 2.  While California’s pot proposition has generated headlines
and a rebuke from the Obama administration, taxation is the
overriding theme on 159 ballot proposals in 2010, as it has been
for years, according to the Los Angeles-based  Initiative &
Referendum Institute  at the University of Southern California.  “Cutting taxes and restricting government in general has
long been a popular topic of the initiative process, and that’s
reflected in this year’s crop of ballot measures,” Jennie
Bowser, an elections analyst at the Denver-based  National
Conference of State Legislatures , said in a telephone interview.  Voters from Boston to Seattle will consider measures that
would boost income-tax revenue, pad so-called rainy-day funds
and slash sales levies as states recovering from the worst
recession since the Great Depression look to replenish their
coffers and cash-strapped residents seek relief. Two-thirds of
U.S. states forecast fiscal 2012 deficits totaling $72 billion,
according to a  July report  by the NCSL.  Massachusetts voters will weigh a proposal to cut the state
sales tax to 3 percent from 6.25 percent as of Jan. 1. Governor
 Deval Patrick , who is seeking re-election next month, and his
Republican opponent,  Charlie Baker , oppose the measure.
According to the initiative institute, the plan would lower
state revenue by more than $2 billion a year.  ‘Calamitous Impact’  “Passing this initiative would have a calamitous impact on
the state’s ability to fund vital programs and services that our
residents rely upon,” Alex Goldstein, a spokesman for Patrick’s
campaign, said in an e-mailed statement.  The proposal “is too much, too fast, considering the $2.5
billion budget deficit facing the next governor,” Baker’s
spokesman, Rick Gorka, said in an e-mail. Baker supports
reducing the tax to 5 percent, Gorka added.  If passed, the plan would yield $900 in annual tax savings
per family and $688 per worker, force the state government to
cut spending and draw shoppers from neighboring states, said
Carla Howell, chairwoman of the  Alliance to Roll Back Taxes , a
Wayland, Massachusetts-based group formed to add the proposal to
the 2010 ballot.  “The measure would likely create significant budgetary
pressures for the state and may significantly reduce ratios for
bonds backed by the sales tax,” according to an Oct. 15 report
by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Colorado Borrowing  Forty-three of the 159 proposals were placed on ballots by
citizen petitions, three were put on by state constitutions and
the remaining 113 were approved by state legislatures, the
institute said. In 2008, 153 propositions were placed on
ballots, compared with 204 in 2006.  In Colorado, voters will consider amending the constitution
to ban state borrowing beginning in 2011. If approved, Colorado
would be the only state prohibited from issuing bonds to fund
infrastructure projects, according to a report by the
legislative conference. The measure also would limit future
borrowing by municipalities and school districts.  The state and its enterprises issue an average of $2.9
billion in new bonds annually and spend about $2 billion a year
to repay debt, according to a Sept. 13 booklet released by the
Legislative Council of the Colorado General Assembly.  No Prepayment Penalty  The proposal would require debt issued by local governments
to be subject to prepayment without penalty at any time,
increasing the cost of capital to issuers, Fitch Ratings said in
an Oct. 14 news release.  The amendment requires local governments to decrease tax
rates when debt is repaid, “further complicating the prospect
of maintaining steady revenue capacity for local governments’
future capital needs,” Fitch said.  In Washington, which doesn’t have an income tax, voters
will consider imposing a levy on the adjusted gross income of
individuals earning more than $200,000 and couples earning more
than $400,000. The revenue would offset a cut in state property
taxes and an increase in the business and occupation tax credit.  Bill Gates Sr ., father of  Microsoft Corp. ’s co-founder, is
a  lead advocate  for the proposal, saying the wealthiest “need
to start paying their share.” Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, the world’s largest software company with about
90,000 employees, opposes the measure, called I-1098.  Microsoft Versus Gates  “We’re concerned that I-1098 will make it harder to
attract talent and create additional jobs in Washington state,”
 Brad Smith , Microsoft’s general counsel and senior vice
president of legal and corporate affairs, said in an e-mail.  The proposal would generate an $11.2 billion increase in
state revenue over five years that will be directed to education
and health services, according to the state’s  Office of
Financial Management .  Californians will vote on a proposition to allow anyone age
21 or older to have, grow and transport marijuana for personal
use. The U.S. Justice Department will “vigorously” enforce
federal law banning marijuana even if it’s allowed under state
law, Attorney General  Eric Holder  said in an Oct. 13 letter.  Also in California, voters will decide on a ballot measure
allowing the Legislature to pass a spending plan with a majority
instead of the current two-thirds vote. The requirement
contributed to a record 100-day delay in the Legislature’s
approval of a budget this year.  Another proposition there would suspend a state law
requiring reduced greenhouse-gas emissions until the state’s
unemployment rate, which was 12.4 percent in August, drops below
5.5 percent for four consecutive quarters.  Rainy Days  Oklahoma ,  South Carolina  and  Virginia  voters will consider
proposals to boost rainy-day funds for budget emergencies.  In South Carolina, voters will decide whether to change the
state constitution to raise to 5 percent from 3 percent the
amount of general revenue in the previous fiscal year that’s
required to be held in reserve. The Oklahoma constitution-change
proposal would increase the amount to 15 percent from 10
percent.  Voter approval in Oklahoma would mean “there could be a
positive impact on the state’s credit,”  Bank of America  Merrill
Lynch said. Oklahoma’s general-obligation bonds are rated Aa2,
or third highest, by Moody’s Investors Service and AA+, one
level higher, by Standard & Poor’s.  The Virginia plan would increase the maximum size of the
rainy-day fund to 15 percent from 10 percent of the state’s
average annual revenue from income and sales taxes for the
previous three fiscal years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 