-- Tele2 Reports Higher Third-Quarter Profit on Russia, Mobile Data
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-10-20T09:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/tele2-reports-higher-third-quarter-profit-on-russia-mobile-data-revenue.html
Tele2 AB , Sweden’s second-largest
 telephone company , said third-quarter profit rose 43 percent,
aided by expansion in Russia and increasing mobile data use.  Net income rose to 2.51 billion kronor ($370 million) from
1.75 million kronor a year earlier, the Stockholm-based company
said in a  statement . That beat the 1.31 billion kronor estimate,
according to the  average  from 16 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales gained 1.7 percent to 10 billion kronor, slightly below
the average estimate of 10.08 billion kronor.  Tele2’s main business is prepaid mobile subscriptions sold
through retail outlets such as gas stations and post offices.
The company added 1.17 million customers in Russia, where it is
the fourth-largest wireless operator, and revised commissions
for resellers to reward continued customer usage. Mobile data
usage in other markets continued to grow and the company aims to
add data services for Russian customers in the future.  “Positive momentum in our business continues in all our
markets,” Chief Executive Officer  Mats Granryd  said in the
statement. “We will defend the price position in each of our
markets.”  Tele2 rose as much as 1.1 percent to 141.80 kronor in
Stockholm and was up 1 percent at 141.60 as of 11:45 a.m.  Data Services  Swedish sales gained 10 percent as customers made more use
of mobile data services. Eight out of 10 of the best selling
phones in the company’s Swedish shops are smartphones, topped by
Apple Inc.’s iPhone 4, Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB’s
X10 Mini Pro, Apple’s iPhone 3GS, Samsung Electronics Co.’s
Galaxy and HTC Corp.’s Desire, Granryd said in an interview.  The company said wants to acquire a mobile-data-network
license in Russia and is open to “complementary acquisitions
which fit with its corporate culture” in the country. A data
license would most likely be for faster fourth-generation
systems such as the company is building with  Telenor ASA  in
Sweden, rather than third-generation systems, Granryd said.  “4G has been talked about and we certainly would be
interested in discussing that,” he said. “3G is already
deployed in Russia -- I think that race is more or less over.”  Baltic economies are stabilizing and the company is
building 3G networks in those countries to capture data revenue,
he added. The company aims to be a low-priced supplier in each
of its markets and uses a talking black sheep named Frank as its
advertising symbol.  Croatia Operations  Tele2’s Croatian operations posted positive earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and expects
positive cash flow within a year. The result was helped by
summer visitors to the country, Granryd said.  The company reduced its full-year capital expenditure
estimates by about 5 percent to 10 percent overall and about 20
percent in Russia. Granryd cited more efficient equipment,
declining prices and supply problems at vendors as reasons for
the revision.  Last year’s third-quarter results  included  a goodwill
impairment loss of 526 million kronor on the sale of French
operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  