-- Electronic Arts Buys `Angry Birds' Publisher Chillingo to Add IPhone Games
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-10-20T18:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/electronic-arts-buys-angry-birds-publisher-chillingo-to-add-iphone-games.html
Electronic Arts Inc. , the second-
largest video-game publisher, purchased the U.K.-based publisher
of “Angry Birds” to add titles made for  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone
and iPad.  Terms for the purchase of Chillingo weren’t disclosed,
 Holly Rockwood , a spokeswoman for Redwood City, California-based
Electronic Arts, said today in an e-mailed statement.  The acquisition gives Electronic Arts access to several
independent publishers of social games including “Cut the
Rope” and “Angry Birds,” two of the top titles on Apple
Inc.’s iTunes site. Game publishers are buying developers of
mobile and social games as those markets grow with the
popularity of Facebook and smartphones.  Electronic Arts will preserve the company’s independence,
Rockwood said. The purchase price was less than $20 million, the
Los Angeles Times reported, citing an unidentified source close
to the deal.  Electronic Arts fell 19 cents to $15.39 at 2:04 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . It had declined 12
percent this year before today.  Activision Blizzard Inc.  is the
largest video-game publisher.  With more processing power and better graphics than their
predecessors, smartphones are eating into the game-console
market dominated by Nintendo Co.,  Microsoft Corp.  and Sony Corp.
Shipments of game-capable mobile phones are set to rise 11
percent to 1.27 billion this year, according to market
researcher iSuppli.  In November 2009, Electronic Arts bought Playfish, the
second-largest maker of games on Facebook, for as much as $400
million to gain a bigger foothold in casual, online play.  DeNA Co., a Japanese social game developer, on Oct. 12
agreed to pay about $400 million to buy San Francisco-based
Ngmoco, a maker of games, that can be played on Apple Inc.’s
iPhone.  In July, Walt Disney Co. agreed to buy Playdom Inc. for
$563.2 million. The Burbank, California-based company also
bought Tapulous Inc., a developer of music-related games for the
iPod and the iPad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 