-- Temasek Seeks $642 Million From Selling Stake in Korea's Hana Financial
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-10-20T10:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/temasek-seeks-642-million-from-selling-stake-in-korea-s-hana-financial.html
Temasek Holdings Pte , Singapore’s
state-owned investment company, is seeking about $642 million
from selling shares in South Korea’s Hana Financial Group Inc.
after it recently bought a stake in a Brazilian oil firm.  About 20.4 million  Hana  shares are being offered at 34,300
won to 35,550 won each, the terms for the sale obtained by
Bloomberg News show.  Jeffrey Fang , a spokesman for Temasek,
declined to comment.  Temasek, with S$186 billion ($142 billion) in assets, has
been increasing its focus on energy and resources investments as
demand in emerging markets, led by those in Asia, increases. It
paid $400 million for a 14.3 percent stake in the oil services
unit of Brazil’s Odebrecht SA, Temasek said yesterday.  “We’ve always maintained that Temasek is a bit over-
weighted in financials and under-weighted in energy and
resources, so it makes sense for them to diversify their
portfolio,” said  Lim Jit Soon , head of research at Nomura
Securities in Singapore.  Temasek owned 10 percent of Hana as of March 31 and its
investment in South Korea’s fourth-largest financial company
gave a one-year return of 71 percent, according to the Singapore
company’s annual report in July.  The Seoul-based company on Oct. 15  reported  a bigger-than-
expected 10 percent increase in third-quarter profit of 265.1
billion won ($235 million) as its lending margins improved.
Hana’s banking unit in September completed the  purchase  of an 18
percent stake in China’s Bank of Jilin, almost three years after
the plan was announced in 2007.  Positioning for Future  The investment in Rio de Janeiro-based Odebrecht Oil & Gas
adds to Temasek’s purchase of $500 million of convertible
preferred shares in Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake Energy Corp.,
the third-largest U.S. natural-gas producer. Other investments
were made in companies including Platmin Ltd., SouthGobi Energy
Resources Ltd. and GMR Energy Ltd.  “In future, when we go into an environment of shortages
and inflation, there is probably a need for them to move to
position themselves strategically for longer term trends,” said
Nomura’s Lim. “From that perspective, their recent moves would
be logical as they need to be positioned to track these
trends.”  Credit Suisse Group AG is managing the Hana transaction.  Investment Portfolio  Temasek’s investments in financial firms rose to 37 percent
of its portfolio from 33 percent in the year to March 31, after
it increased its stake in China Construction Bank Corp. and the
value of such investments swelled as markets recovered,
according to its annual report in July.  During the same period, the value of its investments in
resources firms rose to S$11.2 billion, or 6 percent of its
total portfolio, from S$6.5 billion, or 5 percent.  Net income fell 26 percent to S$4.6 billion in the year to
March 31, from S$6.2 billion a year earlier because of lower
profit contributions from some portfolio companies that were
hurt by the financial crisis.  Temasek sold its stakes in Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America Corp. and London-based Barclays Plc at a loss in
the previous financial year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  