-- Encana Defers Capital Spending, Reduces Output Guidance on Low Gas Prices
-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 2010-10-20T20:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/encana-defers-capital-spending-reduces-output-guidance-on-low-gas-prices.html
Encana Corp. , Canada’s largest
natural-gas producer, trimmed capital spending for the year and
cut its production outlook because of “unsustainably low” gas
prices.  The company won’t pursue “growth at any cost,”  Randy Eresman , Calgary-based Encana’s chief executive officer, said in
a statement today. “North America’s ongoing oversupply of
natural gas production has driven prices for the near term to
levels that we believe are unsustainably low. As such, we are
slowing the near-term growth rate of our resource plays.”  The company will defer about $200 million of its proposed
$5 billion in spending until next year. Gas production,
previously forecast to rise 15 percent from 2009, will now
increase about 12 percent to the equivalent of 3.315 billion
cubic feet daily, according to the statement.  “The cuts are largely in the Haynesville” shale area,
said  Phil Skolnick , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Inc. in New
York who rates Encana “hold” and doesn’t own the stock. The
company increased its production outlook for Canada, he said.  Encana had planned to boost production from the  Haynesville 
area in Louisiana and East Texas. Demand for hydraulic
fracturing and other services has hindered its ability to
complete wells and bring them into production, the company said.
The Haynesville is a shale-rock formation that requires
injection of water, sand and chemicals to release gas.  Haynesville Gas  The company has 430,000 net acres in the Haynesville, an
area that may hold 251 trillion cubic feet of technically
recoverable gas, according to an April 2009  report  done for the
U.S. Energy Department.  Encana in June signed a memorandum of understanding with
China National Petroleum Corp. to potentially develop gas from
shale formations in British Columbia. The talks are still
ongoing, Eresman said on an investor conference call today, and
he’s not sure where they will go.  Encana  fell  $1.03, or 3.4 percent, to C$29.13 at 4 p.m. on
the Toronto Stock Exchange. Before today, Encana had lost 12
percent so far this year.  Energy companies are under pressure to complete wells in
the Haynesville to meet land-retention conditions in their
contracts. Encana and others have boosted demand for services
and the Canadian company has moved some drilling into next year
to avoid inflating costs.  “There are a lot of people trying to drill to retain
land” in the Haynesville area, said  Lanny Pendill , an analyst
with Edward Jones & Co. in St. Louis who rates Encana “buy”
and doesn’t own the stock.  Gas Prices  Barclays Plc cut its forecast yesterday for U.S. natural
gas prices by 3.9 percent for next year, saying they may average
$3.94 per million British thermal units, down from an earlier
estimate of $4.10.  New York gas futures rose 23 percent in the third quarter
to an average of $4.235 per million British thermal units.
Prices are up from $3.441 in third quarter of 2009, the lowest
quarterly average since 2002, according to Bloomberg data.  Encana reported  net income  for the quarter rose to $569
million, or 77 cents a share, from $25 million, or 3 cents, a
year earlier.  Encana’s net income was boosted by $331 million from
hedging gains as the company sold gas under contracts at higher-
than-market prices. Without those contracts and a gain related
to foreign currencies, profit would have been $98 million, or 13
cents a share, below the 20 cents-a-share  average estimate  of 17
analysts polled by Bloomberg. The shares have one sell, 10 buy
and 13 hold  recommendations .  “They missed the street expectations,” Skolnick said.
“Production was a bit light.”  (Encana will hold a webcast at 1 p.m. New York time to
discuss its results. To listen click on
 http://encana.com/investors/presentations/ .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gene Laverty  in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 