-- Enel Said to Have Rejected Advice for Lower EGP IPO Price Range
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2010-10-21T15:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/enel-said-to-have-rejected-advice-of-banks-for-lower-egp-ipo-price-range.html
Enel SpA  rejected advice from
investment banks that it should set a lower price range for its
renewable-energy unit’s initial public offering, according to
five people familiar with the discussions.  Italy’s largest utility set a range on Oct. 14 valuing Enel
Green Power SpA at 9 billion euros ($12.4 billion) to 10.5
billion euros, even after at least four of its 10 IPO advisers
recommended a wider range with a lower base, the people said.
Some of the banks proposed Enel should value the business at as
little as 7.5 billion euros, said two of the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are confidential.  “The stock is looking quite fully valued, at as much as 10
percent above our equity valuation” based on comparisons with
the company’s competitors,  Benita Barretto , an analyst at
Berenberg Bank in London, wrote in a note to clients today. The
company is worth about 7.9 billion euros, she said.   Enel  plans to raise as much as 3.4 billion euros in
Europe’s largest IPO since 2007 and Italy’s biggest in more than
a decade, as it seeks to pay down debt. Europe’s most indebted
utility aims to attract investors by offering  dividends  that are
above average for the renewable-energy industry. The Rome-based
company will pay out 30 percent of net income to investors,
Chief Executive Officer  Fulvio Conti  said on Oct. 14.  ‘Careful Assessment’  The range “is the result of a careful assessment of market
feedback by the company and all its banking advisers,” a
company spokeswoman said in an e-mailed statement. “Enel and
all its advisers believe this to be a realistic range for what
is an excellent asset.” She declined to be named, citing
company policy.  Conti and Enel Chairman Piero Gnudi have placed orders for
100,000 shares, worth at least 180,000 euros each, the company
said today.  Bank of America Corp. , Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s Banca IMI,
Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Mediobanca SpA, Morgan Stanley, UniCredit
SpA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA are managing the IPO.  Officials for Bank of America, Intesa Sanpaolo, Barclays,
Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Mediobanca, Morgan
Stanley, UniCredit and BBVA declined to comment.  After publishing research on EGP on Oct. 4, the banks
sounded out investors on demand for the shares before
recommending a price range during so-called premarketing, which
detected interest among investors at a lower price, said the
people. Banca IMI in its analyst note had valued EGP at as much
as 10.6 billion euros based on trading multiples of rival
companies, the note shows.  State Subsidies  Unlike  Iberdrola Renovables SA  and other competitors that
rely on wind power, Enel Green Power has 44 percent of its
capacity at hydroelectric plants. About 41 percent of its
capacity comes from wind and 13 percent is geothermal.  The structure of the unit makes it less dependent on state
subsidies, which have helped fund wind and solar panels, the
company has said. Italy’s government reduced payments for solar-
power projects this year, and Spain may follow suit.  Analysts at Banca IMI estimate that Enel Green Power will
post earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 1.3 billion euros this year, up about 8 percent
from 2009.  The company’s debt should rise to no more than 4.3 billion
euros in 2012 and installed capacity should rise by 9 percent
annually, Banca IMI said.  Enel shares climbed 1 percent to 4.04 euros in Milan
trading, for a market value of 38 billion euros.  The renewable-energy unit is slated to start trading on
Nov. 4. Shares are on sale to individual and institutional
investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Zijing Wu  in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 