-- Leonard Green Said to Seek MGM Resorts’ Stake in Borgata Casino
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-10-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/leonard-green-said-to-seek-mgm-resorts-stake-in-atlantic-city-s-borgata.html
Leonard Green & Partners , a buyout
firm that manages about $9 billion, offered to acquire MGM
Resorts International’s stake in Atlantic City’s Borgata Hotel
Casino & Spa, people with knowledge of the bid said.  Without naming the suitor, MGM said last week it received
an offer for its 50 percent stake that will generate proceeds of
about $250 million. The people declined to be identified because
the deliberations aren’t public.  With Borgata, Leonard Green would gain a stake in the most
profitable Atlantic City resort, at a time when the state is
seeking ways to help operators reverse a market-wide gambling
revenue decline now in its fourth year. Governor  Chris Christie 
in July proposed taking control of policing, land use and
development on the Boardwalk and nearby areas as competition
from neighboring states grows.  Boyd Gaming Corp. , operator and half-owner of Borgata, has
the right to match Leonard Green’s bid and said in an Oct. 18
 filing  that it’s evaluating its options. Boyd spokesmen didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail request for comment.  Michael Gennaro , a spokesman for Leonard Green, declined to
comment.  Gordon Absher , a spokesman for Las Vegas-based MGM
Resorts, also declined to comment.  The buyout firm, founded in 1989, has holdings in fitness
club operator Equinox, and retailers Whole Foods Market Inc. and
Sports Authority, according to its  website . Leonard Green
doesn’t list any gambling investments at the site.  Casino overbuilding and debt taken on before the 2008
financial crisis have created opportunities for private-equity
investors such as Leonard Green, whose  founder  died in 2002.  M Resort  The firm bid unsuccessfully for the M Resort Spa Casino
south of the Las Vegas Strip with the founding Marnell family,
who spent about $1 billion building the property, people with
knowledge of the sale said earlier this month.  Penn National
Gaming Inc.  won the auction, agreeing to pay $230.5 million for
about $860 million in M Resort debt.  Authentic Brands Group LLC, one of Leonard Green’s holdings,
 agreed last month to buy  TapouT and other clothing brands
associated with the mixed-martial arts network Ultimate Fighting
Championship. Las Vegas-based UFC is majority owned by Lorenzo
and  Frank Fertitta , members of the family that founded Station
Casinos Inc.  MGM , the biggest casino operator on the Las Vegas Strip, is
leaving Atlantic City rather than drop its ties to  Pansy Ho  and
their joint venture in Macau, China, the world’s largest casino
market. MGM pledged to sell its Borgata stake in March after the
New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement found Ho to be an
unsuitable partner.  Most Profitable  MGM said the offer for Borgata valued the New Jersey
property’s total equity and debt at $1.35 billion. MGM and Ho
plan to sell shares in their Macau casino venture.  Borgata had the highest gross operating profit of Atlantic
City’s 11 casino resorts in the first half of this year and in
2009, according to the New Jersey Casino Control Commission.  Boyd and MGM refinanced the resort in August, in part to
pay themselves a dividend. Borgata includes the $400 million
Water Club hotel tower, opened in June 2008.  MGM agreed separately in July to sell the land underneath
Borgata to  Vornado Realty Trust  and Geyser Holdings. The deal is
scheduled to close in the fourth quarter and will deliver MGM
net proceeds of about $71 million.  MGM fell 39 cents to $10.78 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have gained 18 percent
this year. Boyd retreated 20 cents to $7.61 and has lost 9.1
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  