-- Chancellor's Bloc Climbs in Forsa Poll After Immigration Dominates Debate
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2010-10-20T08:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/merkel-bloc-gains-in-weekly-forsa-poll-after-immigration-dominates-debate.html
Backing for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition rose from a record low in a weekly opinion
poll as immigration dominated the political debate.  Merkel’s three-party coalition had combined support of 35
percent, a 2-point gain on last week when the alliance had its
lowest recorded score in the Forsa GmbH poll for Stern magazine
and RTL television. Merkel’s Christian Democrats and Christian
Social Union notched the 2-point gain, while the Free Democratic
Party was unchanged at 4 percent.  Merkel, who was re-elected last year, is struggling with
slumping popularity as her party prepares for six state
elections in 2011. Most Germans have yet to feel the benefits of
economic recovery, helping keep the popularity of the coalition
in the doldrums, though growing public concern over immigration
may offer Merkel a chance to boost her ratings, pollsters say.  “Most Germans are skeptical of immigration’s benefits and
Merkel could score points by offering policy that panders to
sentiment,”  Peter Matuschek , Berlin-based Forsa’s chief
political analyst, said in a telephone interview today.
“Germans perceive that immigrants need to contribute more to
society’s social and economic well-being.”  In a speech to the youth wing of her Christian Democratic
Union Oct. 16, Merkel said multiculturalism had “failed,
utterly failed.” Her spokesman  Steffen Seibert  told reporters
two days later that she was referring to a laissez-faire social
policy that promotes passive co-existence between Muslims and
non-Muslims in Germany.  ‘Social Costs’  About 55 percent of Germans view immigrants as “bringing
considerably more social and financial costs than economic
benefits,” a poll published by the Allensbach Institute on
Sept. 29 showed. Seibert said the Cabinet is looking into means
of improving integration.  Germany was home to 6.7 million foreigners, or 8.3 percent
of the country’s 82.1 million population in 2008, according to
the Federal Statistics Office. About 3 million are of Turkish
descent.  FDP Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  announced a plan this
week to entice suitably qualified migrants to Germany. His
party’s standing in this week’s poll is 1 point less than needed
to keep its parliamentary seats. In September 2009’s election,
the party took 14 percent of the vote on a platform of promising
tax cuts.  The opposition Greens dropped a point this week to 24
percent, still 1 point ahead of the Social Democrats, whose
score was unchanged. The parties, allies in power from 1998 to
2005, would have an absolute majority in coalition in the
Bundestag, parliament’s lower house, if elections were held now,
the poll showed.  Forsa surveyed 2,503 people from Oct. 11-15 and the poll
has a margin of error of as much as 2.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 