-- Merkel Retreat on Euro Budget Rules Criticized by German Allies
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2010-10-20T09:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/merkel-criticized-by-german-allies-for-her-retreat-on-euro-area-sanctions.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  was
criticized by political allies for ceding to France and giving
up on her call for mandatory sanctions on euro-area countries
that breach budget-deficit limits.  The comments from within Merkel’s ruling coalition echoed
the reaction to her decision earlier this year to back a rescue
for Greece and financial backstop for euro-area countries.  “After agreeing to stump up for the Greek bailout, Germany
is now being pulled over a barrel twice,”  Frank Schaeffler , a
financial spokesman for the Free Democrats, Merkel’s junior
coalition partner, said in a phone interview today. “This is a
fatal compromise.”  Germany, which had pushed for “quasi-automatic”
sanctions, shifted its stance on Oct. 18 to embrace French calls
for euro-area governments to vote on penalties, leaving
decisions in the hands of politicians.  “Either you have automatic sanctions worthy of the name,
or you leave the door wide open to a repeat of the fiscal mess
we’re in now.” Schaeffler said.  While France backed Merkel’s effort for a rewrite of
European Union treaties to create a permanent way to handle debt
crises, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper said other
countries will now resist that push.  “Judgment on violators will still be passed by the
violators,” the newspaper said in an editorial today. “This
isn’t exactly a toughening of the pact. And the German
government didn’t really get anything in return.”  It’s “hard to understand why Mrs. Merkel has given in to
French pressure to such a degree,” Michael Link, a lawmaker
with the Free Democrats, said in a statement.  German Deputy Finance Minister  Joerg Asmussen  defended the
accord, saying it opens the way for finding “a permanent
crisis-resolution mechanism.”  “Without this German-French accord there would not have
been an agreement,” he told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net  