-- Terra Firma Lawyer to Call Citigroup Banker as EMI Trial Hostile Witness
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/terra-firma-s-hands-tells-jury-he-has-no-record-of-crucial-emi-deal-calls.html
The Citigroup Inc. banker accused of
misleading Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. founder  Guy Hands 
about the 2007 auction of  EMI Group Ltd.  will tell his story to
a Manhattan federal jury as early as Oct. 25.  David Boies , the lead lawyer for Hands and London-based
Terra Firma, told U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff  yesterday that
he will call the banker,  David Wormsley , as a hostile witness in
the trial.  Hands claimed, in testimony over three days, that Wormsley
misled him about the 2007 auction of London-based  EMI Group
Ltd. , leading Terra Firma to overpay for the 113-year-old music
company. Wormsley’s lawyers have contradicted Hands’s account of
three crucial phone calls between them in May 2007, according to
court papers.  The calls, which took place the weekend before the auction,
are at the center of Terra Firma’s suit. Hands claims Wormsley,
his former friend and business associate, told him that Cerberus
Capital Management LP planned to submit a competing bid for EMI.
In fact, New York-based Cerberus had withdrawn from the bidding,
leaving Terra Firma without competition, according to court
filings.  “If it wasn’t for those phone calls, they wouldn’t have
been scrambling and they wouldn’t have put the bid in at that
price at that time,” said Werner Kranenburg, a London-based
lawyer observing the trial, summarizing Hands’s testimony.  Wormsley will have to persuade jurors “that he wasn’t
trying to convince his friend into rash actions over that
weekend,” Kranenburg said.  Three Times  In testimony this week, Hands testified that Wormsley told
him three separate times that Cerberus planned to bid 2.62
pounds ($4.11) a share for EMI in the May 21, 2007, auction.
Wormsley also said that Terra Firma would have to bid at least
that much or lose the auction. Terra Firma bid 2.65 pounds a
share.  “He told me that Cerberus were there at 262, that the bid
had to be in at 9 a.m. the next morning and he told me not to
play any games with the price,” Hands testified.  Ted Wells , Citigroup’s lawyer, tried to show that Terra
Firma’s 2.65-pound-a-share bid was based on due diligence the
firm conducted before the auction, as well as conversations with
EMI’s chief executive officer and Terra Firma’s estimate of the
company’s worth, and not on any information passed along by
Wormsley.  In pretrial rulings, Rakoff said that Terra Firma must
prove that Wormsley lied to Hands or was reckless about whether
his statements were true.  Two of the three phone calls at issue took place on May 18,
2007, three days before a Monday deadline for submitting bids,
Hands told jurors. The third call came around midnight on
Sunday, he said.  Cross-examination  On cross-examination, Wells contrasted Hands’s claimed
memory of the three phone calls with his failure to recall
details of other phone calls and meetings from the same time.
Hands said he is unaware of any records that prove his version
of what he and Wormsley discussed. Two Terra Firma executives,
 Tim Pryce  and  Riaz Punja , testified in support of their boss’s
account.  Terra Firma claims that if it knew there weren’t other
bidders, it would have pulled out of the auction to negotiate a
better price and more advantageous due diligence.  The sale, which came at the height of the mergers and
acquisitions boom, has been a money loser for Terra Firma.  Since Hands took over, musical acts including Queen,  Paul McCartney  and the Rolling Stones have left EMI. The company,
which had a profit of 86 million pounds in 2006, reported a loss
of 512 million pounds for the year ended March 31.  Wormsley Unaware  Citigroup, which loaned more than $5 billion in the $6.7
billion acquisition, claims Wormsley was unaware of the status
of Cerberus’s bid and didn’t lie to Hands. New York-based
Citigroup was stuck with the entire loan after the global credit
freeze and once the true state of EMI’s finances became clear,
according to court filings.  “The company we bought was not the company we thought we
were buying,” Hands testified yesterday.  Hands is scheduled to complete his testimony when the trial
resumes on Oct. 25. Wormsley may be called later in the day.  The case is Terra Firma v. Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 