-- TerreStar, Sunset Village, Upper Market Place, Cynergy Data: Bankruptcy
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2010-10-20T12:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/terrestar-sunset-village-upper-market-place-cynergy-data-bankruptcy.html
TerreStar Networks Inc. , a provider
of mobile and Internet communications services, filed for
bankruptcy with a restructuring plan backed by  EchoStar Corp. ,
its largest secured creditor.  TerreStar reported assets and liabilities of more than $1
billion each in documents filed yesterday in the U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Manhattan. The largest unsecured creditors are
noteholders, with a claim of $178.6 million, according to court
papers.  TerreStar, based in Reston, Virginia, provides mobile
satellite coverage throughout the U.S. and Canada in areas where
traditional mobile networks are unavailable, according to court
papers. It said in a regulatory filing in August that it was in
discussions with noteholders about a restructuring and that it
might have to file for bankruptcy protection.  EchoStar, a television equipment and satellite services
company, agreed to provide TerreStar with a $75 million loan
during its bankruptcy case, TerreStar said in a statement.  EchoStar and New York hedge fund Harbinger Capital Partners
are TerreStar Corp.’s largest  shareholders , according to
Bloomberg data. EchoStar, based in Englewood, Colorado, has
agreed to support a restructuring plan in which it would swap
TerreStar secured notes it holds for equity, according to court
papers. EchoStar would also backstop $100 million of a $125
million rights offering.  Kelly Adams, a TerreStar spokeswoman, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  The case is In re TerreStar Networks Inc., 10-15446, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New Filings  Sunset Village Files for Bankruptcy in Chicago  Sunset Village LP filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection in Chicago, where it is based.  The company declared assets and liabilities of $10 million
to $50 million each. Among the 20 largest unsecured creditors
listed are  Wolin, Kelter & Rosen Ltd. , with a claim of $73,440;
 Eagle Heating & Cooling , $32,397; Sunrise Tree Care $15,700; and
Midwest Power Vac Inc., $10,625.  A meeting of creditors has been scheduled in the Chicago
court for Nov. 15.  The case is In re Sunset Village Limited Partnership, 10-
br-45772, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  Upper Market Place Files Chapter 11 in San Francisco  Upper Market Place LLC filed for bankruptcy protection in
San Francisco on Oct. 15.  The voluntary Chapter 11 filing was “in the best interests
of the company” in order to “protect its assets from
foreclosure,” Upper Market Place said in a filing with the
court.  The South San Francisco, California-based single asset real
estate company has assets in the range of $1 million to $10
million, according to court files. Liabilities are $10 million
to $50 million, court papers showed.  Among Upper Market Place’s 20 largest unsecured creditors
and their claims are  Centrix Builders Inc. , $175,230; Granite
Construction & Demolition Inc., $112,500; and  East West Bank ,
which is owed $12.3 million against collateral with a fair
market value of $7.9 million, according to court papers.  The case is In re Upper Market Place LLC, 10-br-34082, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  6611 Southpoint Parkway Files Bankruptcy in Florida  6611 Southpoint Parkway LLC, which has operated under the
name Jacksonville Self Storage, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection in Jacksonville, Florida.  Court papers indicated that 6611 Southpoint Parkway listed
assets of $1 million to $10 million and liabilities of $10
million to $50 million.  The case is In re 6611 Southpoint Parkway LLC, 10-br-09093,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville).  Updates  Madoff Judge Defers Ruling on Feeder Clients’ Claims  The judge overseeing the liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff’s
investment firm deferred a ruling on whether investors who lost
money in so-called feeder funds will receive payments from the
bankruptcy court trustee.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton Lifland in New York yesterday
said he will rule later on the request by trustee Irving Picard
to deny the claims of investors who weren’t direct customers of
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, the firm at the
center of the world’s largest Ponzi scheme.  Picard said in December the feeder-fund claims were
rejected because they weren’t from direct Madoff accounts. The
trustee filed a motion in June to obtain the judge’s approval of
that action and to allow objectors to be heard.  Investors in 19 accounts with 16 feeder funds were denied
reimbursement of their claims, the trustee said in the motion.
The feeder funds included Fairfield Greenwich Group, J. Ezra
Merkin’s Gabriel Capital Corp. and Kingate Global Fund.  Lawyers representing some of the approximately 1,700
objectors to the motion argued that their clients met the law’s
definition of a customer.  An initial review showed that 17 of the 19 feeder accounts
were “net losers,” according to court papers.  The  Securities Investor Protection Corp. , the agency
overseeing the distribution of funds, said last month in a
letter to the U.S. Congress that claims by victims of Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme exceeded the money available to reimburse them.  Madoff, 72, was arrested in December 2008 and charged with
securities fraud. He pleaded guilty in March 2009 and is serving
a 150-year prison sentence.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Lehman Didn’t Show Dimon Broke Promise, JPMorgan Says  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  hasn’t proved  JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  Chairman James Dimon promised to return $5 billion in
collateral taken from Lehman when it teetered on the brink of
bankruptcy in September 2008, the bank said in a court filing
seeking to dismiss a lawsuit.  The second-biggest U.S. bank asked a bankruptcy judge
yesterday for the second time to toss a lawsuit by bankrupt
Lehman, which is claiming $8.6 billion in collateral and tens of
billions in damages from JPMorgan for allegedly helping to cause
its collapse.  Lehman said last month that Dimon promised former Lehman
Chairman Richard Fuld the money would be returned on Sept. 12,
2008, a day before Lehman’s bankruptcy filing, and didn’t do so.
JPMorgan said in court papers that Lehman has failed to show
this promise was ever actually made.  New York-based JPMorgan was Lehman’s main clearing bank in
the 2008 financial crisis, lending Lehman’s brokerage more than
$100 billion a day to settle trades and repurchase agreements,
according to the filing. The bank says “safe harbor” laws
allow clearing banks to take security from dealers and
derivatives traders without getting sued if the firms fail.  Lehman said its grounds for suing JPMorgan were spelled out
in a report by court-appointed bankruptcy examiner Anton
Valukas.  Lehman spokeswoman Kimberly Macleod said she couldn’t
immediately comment on JPMorgan’s filing.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The adversary proceeding is Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Briefly Noted  Cynergy Data Files Monthly Operating Report for September  Cynergy Data LLC, a credit-card processor that entered
Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 2009, filed a September
operating report showing that current assets, including
checking, escrow, settlement assets and accounts receivable,
totaled $31.3 million.  Other assets, including investments in affiliates, notes
receivable, officer loans and “other intangible assets” were
valued at $28.7 million, the filing showed. Total disbursements
during the month were $7.7 million.  Cynergy filed a liquidating Chapter 11 plan last month,
telling creditors that the remaining assets are insufficient to
pay anything aside from lawsuit recoveries to anyone except
holders of first-lien debt.  The case is In re CD Liquidation Co. Plus LLC, 09-13038,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more Bloomberg reporting on Cynergy, click here.  South Bay Expressway Sues San Diego County in Tax Dispute  South Bay Expressway LP , the bankrupt owner of a nine-mile
toll road near San Diego, and affiliate California
Transportation Ventures sued to recover $31.5 million in
property taxes they say were improperly assessed.  A trial is scheduled for Oct. 25 before U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Louise DeCarl Adler in San Diego on whether holders of
mechanics’ liens come in ahead of other secured debt in the
reorganization plan.  The case is In re South Bay Expressway LP, 10-04516, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of California (San Diego).  Downgrades/Other Ratings Actions  Commercial Barge Line’s Ratings on Review, Moody’s Says  Commercial Barge Line Co.’s ratings were placed on review
by Moody’s Investors Service for possible downgrade, according
to a statement by the ratings company.  The review was undertaken following the announcement on
Oct. 18 by its publicly traded parent company,  American
Commercial Lines Inc. , that it agreed to be acquired by an
affiliate of Platinum Equity Partners, Moody’s said in the
statement.  The proposed consideration “assigns an enterprise value of
$777 million” to American Commercial Lines, including the $356
million of Commercial Barge line debt outstanding as of the date
of the announcement, according to the statement.  The B1 corporate family and B2 probability of default
ratings, as well as the B2 rating assigned to the $200 million
of 12.5 percent senior secured second lien notes due 2017 were
placed on review for possible downgrade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Main  in Jersey City, New Jersey, at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 