-- Copper, Tin to Extend Advance Even as China Increases Rates, Traders Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-20T08:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/metals-to-extend-rally-even-as-china-cools-lending-analysts-traders-say.html
China’s decision to fight inflation
by raising borrowing costs for the first time since 2007 may not
curb gains in copper and tin, and is unlikely to restrain demand
in the world’s largest metals user, traders and analysts said.  “It’s not a big increase and is unlikely to have much
impact except bring about a knee-jerk reaction, but it signals
the government’s attitude toward wanting to rein-in liquidity
and fight inflation, rising property and food prices,” Zhang
Yan, a trader at Jin Yuan Futures Co., said from Shanghai. The
move may prompt a temporary retreat of speculative money, HNA
Topwin Futures Co. analysts including  Tan Wentao  wrote in a note.  The central bank yesterday lifted the benchmark one-year
lending rate to 5.56 percent from 5.31 percent, and increased
the deposit rate to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent. Economists
hadn’t anticipated the move this year, according to 13 of 19
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Looking at history, the rate-increase cycle usually
accompanies gains in metals prices, so the decline will probably
be a temporary thing,” said Zeng Chao, an analyst at Everbright
Futures Co.  Copper climbed 13 percent this year on the London Metal
Exchange, gaining to a 27-month high of $8,492 a metric ton
yesterday, on shrinking global inventories and a weakening
dollar. The metal for three-month delivery rose as much as 0.7
percent to $8,319.75 a ton, before trading at $8,301.50 a ton at
4:01 p.m. in Singapore. Earlier, the contract fell as much as
1.1 percent to $8,170 a ton, the lowest level since Oct. 12.  Asset Bubbles  Tin soared 56 percent this year, making it the best
performer on the LME, reaching a record $27,338.50 a ton on Oct.
14 on concern that supply will lag behind demand. The  LME  index
of six industrial metals is up 11 percent this year.  China’s rate increase extends measures taken this year to
rein in record loan growth and asset bubbles in the world’s
fastest-growing economy, including curbing loans for third-home
purchases, increasing down-payment requirements, raising
mortgage rates and increasing bank reserve requirements.  China won’t change policies on property, local financing
vehicles, energy saving and emissions-cutting in the short term,
the Financial News said, citing central bank adviser  Xia Bin .  Inflation risks are rising in China on record property
prices and rising raw-material costs. A government report
tomorrow is forecast to show inflation accelerated to the
fastest pace in almost two years in September. Consumer prices
probably climbed 3.6 percent from a year earlier and  the economy 
grew 9.5 percent in the third quarter, according to median
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  China CPI  “Judging from the continued rally in agriculture and soft
commodity prices last month, CPI is not likely to come in low
tomorrow,” said Jin Yuan’s Zhang, referring to China’s Consumer
Price Index figures for September.  Corn, soybean and palm oil futures on the Dalian Commodity
Exchange have risen for three straight months. Cotton climbed 19
percent last month and wheat gained 14 percent on the Zhengzhou
Commodity Exchange.  Economic growth may sustain China’s metals demand, the
traders and analysts said. China’s economic growth may be nine
percent to 10 percent this year, the Financial News reported
today, citing Xia.  Copper inventories  in LME warehouses have dropped 26
percent this year, while stockpiles in Shanghai dwindled 45
percent since reaching a six-year high in April. Output of the
refined metal from January to July increased 17 percent from the
previous year.  -- Glenys Sim  and  Helen Sun . Editors:  Matthew Oakley , James Poole  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:  Glenys Sim  in
Singapore at   gsim4@bloomberg.net ; Helen Sun in
Shanghai at   hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  