-- Failing Banks Could Be Seized Under European Plans
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-10-20T13:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/eu-regulators-debate-halting-bank-dividends-forcing-sales-in-crisis-plan.html
Regulators may be given powers to
take control of ailing European banks, suspend dividend
payments, and force lenders to sell risky business units under
plans to protect public finances from future financial crises.  The package of proposals from the Brussels-based  European
Commission , the executive arm of the European Union, includes
creating a network of authorities able to wind down insolvent
lenders without disrupting the rest of the financial system.  The proposals are aimed at avoiding a repeat of the
financial crisis which followed the failure of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008. European governments set aside more than
$5 trillion of public funds to support their banks. Irish
taxpayers may need to pay 50 billion euros ($69.2 billion) to
rescue lenders including Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  “No bank should be too big to fail or too interconnected
to fail,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services
commissioner, said in an e-mailed statement today. “That is why
we need a clear framework which ensures authorities throughout
Europe are well prepared to deal with banks in difficulty.”  Lenders should be able to fail “without bringing down the
whole financial system or risking that taxpayers are called on
to pay the costs,” Barnier said.  Banks would contribute to a network of resolution funds to
be tapped if a lender faces insolvency, rather than resorting to
public money. They should pay a levy based on the size of
liabilities on their balance sheet to fund the system, under the
plan.  Unsecured Creditors  Unsecured bank creditors would also be forced to accept a
loss if a bank fails, under the measures, which will be
discussed by representatives from EU member states and lawmakers
from the  European Parliament .  “It could be the cure that makes the disease more
likely,”  Simon Gleeson , financial regulation partner at
Clifford Chance LLP, said in a telephone interview. “But that’s
not necessarily a bad thing from a regulator’s point of view if
they have a system in place to deal with insolvency.”  The commission said it would put forward a full legislative
proposal next year and “examine the need for further
harmonization” of bank insolvency rules by the end of 2012.  The best way to prevent future financial crises is to break
up the largest banks, Sony Kapoor, managing director of policy
think-tank Re-Define Europe, said in an e-mail. “Too many of
our banks are too big to manage and consequently too big to
resolve,” Kapoor said.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision last month
agreed to more than double capital requirements for lenders to
make them more resilient in the event of another crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  