-- Eurostar Sued by Alstom Over Order for Siemens Trains
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   F r a n c o i s   D e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-10-20T16:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/eurostar-says-alstom-has-begun-legal-action-over-train-order-with-siemens.html
Eurostar Group Ltd., which runs rail
services through the Channel Tunnel, is being sued by French
trainmaker Alstom SA over its decision to buy expresses for 600
million euros ($830 million) from  Siemens AG  of Germany.  Alstom filed a complaint at the High Court in London
yesterday saying that the tender can’t be concluded because the
Siemens units don’t meet safety regulations that apply in the
tunnel, spokesman  Stephane Farhi  said today in an e-mail.  Eurostar said on Oct. 7 it would purchase 10 Siemens trains
to add routes and fend off competition from Germany’s Deutsche
Bahn AG, which plans services via the tunnel from 2013. Alstom’s
complaint centers on the choice of units with multiple engines,
which would require an amendment to safety rules, even though
its own proposal featured similar technology, Eurostar said.  “Eurostar firmly believes that the arguments raised by
Alstom in support of its challenge are without foundation,” the
Anglo-French company, which is controlled by French state rail
operator SNCF, said in an e-mail. “Siemens submitted a bid that
was significantly better than that of Alstom on key aspects.”  The tender process was “robust,” with all bids received
“fairly and objectively evaluated,” Eurostar said.  Munich-based Siemens said the Alstom lawsuit isn’t directed
against it while expressing confidence that the court will find
that correct procedures were followed.  ‘Transparent’  “Siemens submitted an offer in a transparent call for
tenders that was conducted in compliance with European Union
law,” the German company said in a statement. “The customer
found it to be the better offer and therefore accepted it.”  Alstom is suing after French Transport Minister  Dominique Bussereau  last week expressed “stupefaction” that the Paris-
based company had been overlooked. Eurostar’s current fleet was
manufactured by Alstom to rigid criteria, with trains featuring
a locomotive at each end and unpowered coaches in between.  The French government’s intervention is “purely
political,”  Jacques Gounon , chief executive officer of Groupe
Eurotunnel SA, the link’s operator and a proponent of allowing
in new companies and trains, said in an interview yesterday.  While France could frustrate the bid to bring Siemens stock
to the tunnel, successful evacuation tests and pressure from
Britain and Germany should quell the backlash, he said.  Any update of safety regulations must be approved by the
Franco-British Intergovernmental Commission on the tunnel,
acting on advice from the Channel Tunnel Safety Authority.  Eurotunnel also wants to encourage the use of Hitachi Ltd.
trains for stopping services via the tunnel, serving
destinations such as Ashford in Kent and Calais.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  