-- European Union Can't Confirm China Is Blocking Some Exports of Rare-Earth
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2010-10-20T13:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/european-union-can-t-confirm-china-is-blocking-some-exports-of-rare-earth.html
The European Union said it is unable
to confirm reports that China is blocking exports of rare earths
to the 27-nation bloc.  The EU “cannot confirm claims made by European industry
officials in media reports of China blocking rare-earth
shipments to the EU,”  John Clancy , a spokesman for the European
Commission, the EU executive in Brussels, said in an e-mailed
statement from Brussels today. “The access to rare earths is a
key concern for the European Commission and a key element of
European industrial policy. We are therefore monitoring the
situation closely.”  The New York Times reported today that the Chinese
government has extended an embargo of Japan to include the U.S.
and the EU. China, which mines more than 90 percent of the rare
earths produced worldwide and cut its second-half export quota
by 72 percent this year, denied the report.  Rare earths are a group of 17 chemically similar metal
elements, including lanthanum, cerium and neodymium, that are
used in relatively small amounts in a range of applications,
including  Boeing Co.  helicopter blades, Raytheon Co. missiles,
Toyota Motor Corp. hybrid cars and wind turbines.  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office in Washington is
investigating the claims made in the New York Times article,
said  Nefeterius McPherson , a spokeswoman for the office.  WTO Rules  “We’ve seen the news report and are seeking more
information in keeping with our recent announcement of an
investigation into whether China’s actions and policies are
consistent with WTO rules,” she said.  The U.S. is considering lodging a complaint at the Geneva-
based World Trade Organization over China’s restrictions on
rare-earth exports. The U.S. has asked business groups and
unions to provide evidence that China is hoarding these
elements. China curtails exports of the elements through quotas
and export taxes of as much as 25 percent, the Government
Accountability Office  said  in April.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  has said China didn’t plan to
block rare-earth exports or close its market, Clancy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  