-- EU May Propose Criminal Sanctions, Fines for Data Privacy Cases
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-10-20T15:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/european-union-may-propose-criminal-sanctions-fines-in-data-privacy-cases.html
European Union regulators may
propose expanded criminal penalties to enforce data protection
rules that limit what companies and governments can do with
personal information.  People should also have the right to have their details
deleted and to remove lists of friends, photos or medical
records, according to a European Commission document obtained by
Bloomberg. The proposals may also make it easier for data
protection authorities and consumer groups to file lawsuits over
privacy breaches.  Google Inc.  and Facebook Inc. are among several Internet
companies that have come under European scrutiny for possible
privacy breaches. Data-protection officials have criticized
Facebook, the largest social-networking site, for putting users’
personal information and privacy at risk with recent policy
changes.  It’s “essential to have effective provisions on remedies
and sanctions” including “criminal sanctions in case of
serious data protection violations,” the paper from the EU’s
executive agency says.  Privacy violations can be punished with jail time in Italy,
where a court in February sentenced three Google officials to
six-month terms, which were suspended. They were held
responsible after a group of Turin school students filmed
themselves bullying an autistic classmate and uploaded a clip to
 Google Video  in 2006.  Wireless Data  A U.K. privacy group,  Privacy International , asked London
police in June to investigate whether  Google  should face
criminal charges for collecting wireless data.  “If it strikes you as being surprisingly harsh to propose
criminal penalties for privacy violations, in fact in the U.S.
it’s not,” said  Marc Rotenberg , an executive director at the
Washington-based nonprofit Electronic Privacy Information
Center. “We would do it for wiretapping, we would do it for
violations of the Federal Privacy Act.”  Google spokesmen Al Verney and  Bill Echikson  didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment on the possible
EU measures.  EU Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding  has called for
Internet users to have “effective control of what they put
online and be able to correct, withdraw or delete it at will.”  Changes could be made to the commission’s document before
regulators discuss it on Dec. 4. They will then ask for support
from national governments and EU lawmakers before they draw up
draft legislation in mid-2011.  No Decision  Matthew Newman , a spokesman for Reding, said there is no
decision on whether the EU’s data protection proposals should
set mandatory rules across the 27-nation bloc or only suggest
guidelines for countries to follow.  Data protection regulators from 30 European countries have
pushed search-engine operators including  Google ,  Microsoft Corp. 
and  Yahoo! Inc.  to limit the amount of time they store search
records to no more than six months. Because the companies rely
on user queries to target advertising, shortening the time that
search engines keep such records may cut into advertising
revenue.  Yahoo spokeswoman Sophia Parviez declined to comment
because the EU plan hasn’t been published. Facebook’s press
department didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 