-- Carlos Slim Says Currency War May Mean `Excessive' Commodities Prices
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2010-10-20T07:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/mexico-s-slim-says-currency-war-may-mean-excessive-commodities-prices.html
Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim  said
the push by some governments to gain competitive advantage
through cheaper currencies may cause an increase in commodities
prices and hurt consumers.  Asked about what Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
has called a “currency war,” Slim said Mexico shouldn’t get
involved, adding that the principal players are the U.S. and
China. Food commodities prices are most likely to be affected,
said Slim, who was named the world’s richest man this year by
Forbes magazine with a fortune of more than $60 billion.  “It could provoke many economic problems, above all with
some goods and commodities, which could have excessive prices
and greatly affect the population,” Slim said, speaking to
reporters in the Mexican border city of Tijuana late yesterday.  Developing countries are intervening in currency markets to
protect their economies against inflows of capital. Mantega said
Oct. 18 that his country will increase a tax on foreigners’
investments in fixed-income securities to 6 percent from 4
percent.  Slim said precious metals such as gold and silver are less
likely to be affected from the currency adjustments, which he
called a “competition.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Oct. 18
that the U.S. will preserve confidence in a “strong dollar”
and “will not engage” in currency devaluation.  The U.S. is especially vulnerable to changes in foreign
economies because of its import needs, according to Slim. A
revaluation of foreign currencies won’t solve that problem as
long as the U.S. doesn’t produce its own basic goods, he said  “What the U.S. should to do instead of seeking the yuan’s
revaluation is to aim for Chinese workers to get higher salaries
and less working hours,” said Slim. “That would help the U.S.,
the rest of the world and even China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Tijuana at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  