-- Mexico's Banorte Gains on Plan to Explore Acquisition of Ixe Financiero
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2010-10-20T21:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/mexico-s-banorte-may-acquire-smaller-competitor-ixe-to-expand-presence.html
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB,
Mexico’s third-largest bank by outstanding loans, pared earlier
losses to gain for the first time in four days after saying it
may acquire smaller lender Ixe Grupo Financiero SAB.  Banorte climbed 0.8 percent to 49.22 pesos at 4 p.m. New
York time. Ixe, a Mexico City-based bank known for high-end
clients and brokerage services, rose 2.2 percent to 18.70 pesos.  The banks signed a non-binding agreement to proceed with
due diligence for what they called a merger or possible
alliance, according to statements issued yesterday to Mexico’s
stock exchange. No financial terms were disclosed.  Banorte  would
absorb  Ixe  if any transaction occurs, Banorte said in its
statement.  “Ixe has a staff that’s more focused on the markets and
being an innovator, while Banorte is a traditional bank,” said
 Enrique Solorzano , who helps manage $13.9 billion in assets at
ING Groep NV’s Mexican pension fund. “They will complement each
other well.”  Banorte, based in Monterrey, has more than 1,100 branches
in Mexico and a presence in Texas, New Jersey, New York and
California, according to its statement. Ixe has 155 branches, 85
in the Mexico City metropolitan area.  Loan Holdings  Banorte’s total loan portfolio was 231.7 billion pesos in
August, according to statistics from Mexico’s  Banking and
Securities Commission , or CNBV. It trails the Mexican unit of
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, which has loan holdings of
545.7 billion pesos, and Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex, with
outstanding loans of 343.4 billion pesos. Ixe is Mexico’s tenth-
largest lender, with outstanding loans of 28.5 billion pesos in
August.  Banorte may help “stabilize” Ixe’s operations, said
Solorzano. Banorte had net income of 1.66 billion pesos ($132.5
million) in the second quarter and is scheduled to report third-
quarter earnings on Oct. 26. Ixe’s second-quarter net income
fell 81 percent to 24.9 million pesos from the same period in
2009, when earnings were boosted by the sale of its pension fund
to Banorte. The fund had 312,489 clients and 5.45 billion pesos
under management at the time of the sale.  “Different Models”  A combination with Banorte could be attractive for Ixe
shareholders and may consolidate Banorte’s position as Mexico’s
No. 3 lender, Mario Cortes, head of the marketing department at
the Universidad Panamericana in Mexico City, said in a phone
interview.  “Ixe’s business model is very different from Banorte’s.
IXE is a boutique bank that has few clients and branches and is
very selective in its client profile,” Cortes said. “Banorte,
meanwhile, goes for the bigger market, the general market.”  Ixe said in yesterday’s statement that “the combination of
both institutions will produce relevant synergies of costs,
revenue and funding.”  Banorte, which markets itself as being fully owned and
operated by Mexicans in a market dominated by international
banks such as BBVA, Citigroup, HSBC Plc and Banco Santander SA,
may be attracted by the prospect of Ixe because it’s also
Mexican-owned, Cortes said.  The transaction would require approval from the CNBV, the
companies said in the statements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jose Enrique Arrioja  in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Roeder  in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  