-- Exxon Cuts Venezuela Arbitration Claim to $7 Billion
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2010-10-20T18:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/exxon-cuts-arbitration-claim-against-pdvsa-to-7-billion-from-12-billion.html
Exxon Mobil Corp.  reduced its
arbitration claim against state oil company  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA  by at least $5 billion as it seeks compensation for
the nationalization of oil assets by President Hugo Chavez.  Exxon, the largest U.S. oil company, cut the amount it
seeks through international arbitration to $7 billion from $12
billion plus interest, PDVSA, as the company based in Caracas is
known, said in a preliminary notice for an upcoming bond issue.  “We may incur losses arising from our pending arbitrations
and litigation,” PDVSA said in the notice that was obtained by
Bloomberg News. “Venezuela recognizes the execution of foreign
judgments and arbitration awards, subject to certain conditions
provided for in Venezuelan laws.”  Chavez forced foreign oil producers into joint ventures as
minority partners in 2007 and is in international arbitration
with the U.S.’s Exxon Mobil and  ConocoPhillips , which rejected
revised terms. He has nationalized parts of the oil, metals,
cement and utilities industries during his 11 years in power.  PDVSA and Exxon Mobil, based in Irving, Texas, are
preparing responses to be filed by Oct. 25 following an
international arbitration hearing that concluded Sept. 24, PDVSA
said in the notice. PDVSA expects a ruling in 2011.  David Eglinton , a spokesman for Irving, Texas-based Exxon,
wasn’t immediately available to respond when contacted by e-mail
and telephone.  Orinoco Venture  The World Bank’s International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes (ICSID) ruled on June 10 that it has
jurisdiction over any disputes after Feb. 21, 2006, for the
Cerro Negro project, according to documents posted on the
agency’s website. PDVSA previously argued that the matter should
be resolved in Venezuelan courts.  The Cerro Negro joint venture refined tar-like crude into
synthetic oil from wells in the Orinoco belt.  Exxon initially won an order in the U.K. blocking PDVSA
from selling $12 billion worth of assets anywhere in the world.
The order was overturned by a U.K. court in March 2009.  PDVSA seeks to sell $3 billion of 8.5 percent bonds due in
2017 at par value to finance the company’s investment plan and
fund social development projects, the company said Oct. 18.  Exxon climbed  1.2 percent to $57.98 as of 2:54 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  