-- Facebook Game Makers Kabam, Zynga Turn to China for Talent
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-20T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/facebook-game-makers-kabam-zynga-turn-to-china-to-create-next-farmville-.html
Facebook Inc. game developers Kabam
and Zynga Game Network Inc. said they will increasingly turn to
Chinese software designers to make games for the website,
tapping engineering talent in the Internet’s largest market.  Kabam, maker of the Facebook game “Kingdoms of Camelot,”
set up a  Beijing  studio in May that has two unannounced titles
under development, as many as are in progress at the company’s
U.S. studios, Andy Lee, Asia managing director for Redwood City,
California-based Kabam, said in an interview yesterday. Zynga,
maker of the “FarmVille” and “Mafia Wars” games on Facebook,
said it wants to harness China’s faster pace of innovation.  “China is very important to us,” Lee said. “We see
ourselves aggressively expanding in the region with multiple
studios in China. This is a large part of our international
strategy, and my task is to manage that growth.”  The Asian nation has the world’s biggest Internet market by
users, with 420 million online, creating a large base to
stimulate the development of talented software designers, Lee
said. After becoming the largest exporting nation making
computers, toys and clothes sold at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. 
outlets, China is moving into software development as the
Internet’s center of gravity shifts to the country.  “China is moving up the value chain from low-margin, high-
volume manufactured goods into the realm of design,” said
 Duncan Clark , chairman of Beijing-based technology consultant
BDA China Ltd. “The value is in design, and that is where China
wants to head.”  Betfair, Canaan Backing  Kabam has 35 employees in Beijing, its first international
studio, compared with 100 workers in the U.S., Lee said. Over
the next few years, the number of employees in China will likely
exceed the U.S. workforce, he said.  Closely held Kabam, which changed its name from Watercooler
in August, has raised about $9.5 million from London-based
Betfair Group Ltd. and Canaan Partners in Westport, Connecticut.  To attract cost-conscious consumers, fight off pirates and
survive in China’s competitive market, software developers
“have to work harder” than those in the U.S., leading to a
large body of talented engineers, said  Andy Tian , head of
Zynga’s Beijing studio.  San Francisco-based Zynga has set up shop in China to take
advantage of the country’s growing software prowess. Zynga in
May announced the acquisition of Beijing-based social-gaming
company XPD Media, the company’s first step into the Asian
market. XPD then had 40 employees, including co-founder Tian,
who Zynga said would immediately be integrated into its global
workforce to focus on engineering and product development.  Harder Workers  “People here are innovating in terms of business model
faster than they are doing in the West,” Zynga’s Tian said on
Oct. 18 at a Stanford University-sponsored conference in
Beijing. “China is a leading area of innovation. It’s big
already, but growth is continuing.”  Facebook is inaccessible in China, so games developed by
Kabam and Zynga specifically for that site won’t be accessible
in their country of origin.  Closely held Zynga has raised $360 million from investors
and says it has 360 million active monthly users.  Chinese software-development companies, many with only a
handful of employees each, have cornered about a 10 percent
share of the revenue from  Apple Inc. ’s App Store, estimates
 James Ding , managing director of GSR Ventures, a Beijing-based
venture capital fund.  “China has a market potential not only to follow the U.S.;
it can become a home market for new applications,” Ding said at
the Stanford University conference this week. “A lot of things
in this part of the world are being tried for the first time
that can be used in the U.S. and global market. We’ll see more
and more of these types of applications in the future.”  At Kabam, the China growth can be seen in the company’s
expanding studio, Lee said. After only five months, Kabam is
moving to a new office that will be triple the size of its
current office at Beijing’s eTower, he said.  “China is one of the most important places for game
innovation,” Lee said.  -- Edmond Lococo . Editors:  Jonathan Annells ,  Terje Langeland   To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  