-- Fannie Mae Suspends Use of Stern Law Firm From Foreclosure Work
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-10-20T20:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/fannie-mae-suspends-use-of-stern-foreclosure-law-firm-pending-review.html
Fannie Mae , the largest provider of
mortgage financing in the U.S., said it halted referrals to a
Florida foreclosure-processing law firm that’s being
investigated by the state attorney general.  The Law Offices of David J. Stern PA have drawn scrutiny in
Attorney General  Bill McCollum’s  investigation into the
foreclosure of homes based on possibly fraudulent or improperly
prepared documents. Citigroup Inc. said last week that it had
suspended referrals to Stern’s Plantation, Florida-based firm.  “Given the increasing questions related to the Stern law
firm, we decided it was appropriate and responsible to suspend
new referrals to the firm,”  Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman for
Washington-based Fannie, said today.  The suspension began Oct. 11, she said. Fannie Mae, which
has a $3.3 trillion book of business, has hired law firm Bradley
Arant Boult Cummings LLP to review Stern’s processes and
operations.  Jeffrey Tew ,  David Stern ’s attorney, said that his client
was “cooperating fully” with the Fannie Mae inquiry and that
the mortgage giant “is doing their due diligence in light of
some things that have been published.”  “The firm is fine with that and we’re happy to let them do
their review,” Tew said.  Freddie Mac , the nation’s second-largest provider of
mortgage financing, has also suspended referrals to Stern’s firm
pending a review,  Brad German , a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  ‘Deeply Concerned’  The company is “deeply concerned about recent reports that
some law firms handling foreclosure cases may have failed to
follow appropriate legal standards in preparing or filing
documents used in the prosecution of foreclosure cases,” German
said. McLean, Virginia-based Freddie has a $2.2 trillion book of
business.  Bonitatibus denied some assertions made in depositions
McCollum’s office took from former Stern employees about the
workings of the firm and its relationship with Fannie, including
that the lender had imposed quotas on the law firm.  “Fannie Mae has never had in place quotas for the number
of foreclosure cases,” she said. She also said the Stern firm
never paid for food or lodging for any of Fannie’s employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Riley  in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 