-- Fannie Mae Sues Insurers Over Mortgage Loan Losses
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-21T01:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/fannie-mae-sues-insurers-over-131-million-in-mortgage-loan-losses.html
Fannie Mae  sued insurance companies,
including Great American Financial Resources Inc. and The
Travelers Cos., claiming they are responsible for losses on the
$131 million Fannie Mae paid for fraudulent mortgage loans.  In the lawsuit filed today in federal court in Washington,
Fannie Mae said that under Financial Institution Bonds sold by
the insurers, they are responsible for the losses. The company
currently faces $108 million in exposure, it claims.  In June 2009,  Michael J. McGrath Jr. , the former president
of U.S. Mortgage Corp., pleaded guilty to two criminal counts in
a conspiracy that prosecutors said defrauded Washington-based
Fannie Mae.  McGrath said that from 2004 until January 2009 he
fraudulently sold credit-union loans and used the proceeds to
finance U.S. Mortgage’s operations and investments.  “We take our coverage obligations seriously, but this is
an ordinary course insurance coverage action arising out of an
isolated set of circumstances,”  Shane Boyd , a Travelers
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “The complaint
alleges that Travelers has $15 million dollars of gross limits
exposed in excess layers, and accordingly we do not expect this
to have a material financial impact for Travelers.”  Other defendants in today’s lawsuit include Chubb Group of
Insurance Cos., Lloyd’s of London, CNA Insurance Co., HCC
Insurance Holdings Inc.’s Professional Indemnity Agency, Zurich
North America, Liberty Mutual Group, and Fidelity & Deposit Co.
of Maryland.  The case is Federal National Mortgage Association v.
Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s, London, 10cv1775, U.S. District
Court for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 