-- Farthest-Away Galaxy Yet Is Discovered By Team of European Astronomers
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-10-20T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/farthest-away-galaxy-yet-is-discovered-by-team-of-european-astronomers.html
A European team of astronomers
discovered the farthest-away  galaxy  ever, with light that began
shining when the universe was only about 600 million years old.  The galaxy, UDFy-38135539, began forming when the universe,
not yet transparent, was covered in a hydrogen fog that absorbed
light from young galaxies, according to a report in tomorrow’s
edition of the journal  Nature.   The  Big Bang  that formed the universe, according to
scientists’ prevailing theory, occurred an  estimated  13.7
billion years ago. The newly discovered galaxy is the oldest
object yet observed, according to the report. The finding may
provide clues to how the universe organized itself into its
current shape, said  Malcolm Bremer , one of the study’s authors.  “We are seeing a very young galaxy at its very early stage
of evolution,” said Bremer, a physics professor at the
University of Bristol in the U.K., in a telephone interview.
“It’s the first building blocks of the galaxies we see around
us in the universe today.”  Finding the oldest galaxies such as UDFy-38135539 is
difficult because their once-bright light now falls into the
infrared part of the spectrum. The expansion of the universe
over billions of years has stretched the light’s wavelength,
according to scientists.  The object is one of several candidates that were
identified when astronomers used the  Hubble Space Telescope  in
2009. The scientists then employed the European Southern
Observatory’s  Very Large Telescope  in Chile to sort the light’s
components and analyze it to determine the temperature, mass,
luminosity and composition of the object that generated it.  Neutral Hydrogen  After the Big Bang, the theory goes, the universe expanded
and cooled, losing enough heat so that protons and electrons
combined to form neutral hydrogen, which consists of a single
proton orbited by a single electron. Neutral hydrogen is
relatively opaque. At some point, electrons began to split off,
forming ionized hydrogen, a substance that is relatively clear,
allowing people to see the universe.  Galaxy UDFy-38135539 is from the period when  reionization 
was taking place, Bremer said. The neutral hydrogen was probably
changed by radiation from hot, bright stars in the first
galaxies, and UDFy-38135539 may have been a source of that
radiation, Bremer said.  Further research will center on finding similar galaxies
from around the same epoch, Bremer said.  “All the work until now has been theoretical,” Bremer
said. “We’re starting to fill in the details of the picture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 