-- FBI Computer System Behind Schedule, Over Budget After $405 Million Spent
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2010-10-20T14:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/fbi-computer-system-behind-schedule-100-million-over-budget-report-says.html
A new FBI computer system for
managing cases is $100 million over budget and two years behind
schedule, according to a report by the U.S. Justice Department’s
inspector general.  As of August, after spending about $405 million of the $451
million budgeted for the program, only two of the four phases of
the project had been completed, according to the  report  released
today.  The case management system, called Sentinel, hasn’t
delivered much of what was intended, though it has provided some
improvements, according to the report. The Federal Bureau of
Investigation is assuming direct management of Sentinel,
reducing the role of contractor  Lockheed Martin Corp.,  based in
Bethesda, Maryland.  “Because the FBI has not finished the third and fourth
phases of Sentinel, FBI agents and analysts do not have the
planned expanded capabilities to search the FBI’s case files,”
according to the report. “Nor can they use Sentinel to manage
evidence, as originally intended.”  The inspector general’s report doesn’t accurately reflect
the FBI’s management of the project, relies on outdated cost
estimates and fails to credit the bureau with taking steps to
stay within budget, said  Thomas J. Harrington , associate deputy
director of the FBI, in a statement.  “Today, thousands of FBI employees use Sentinel each day
for their work, including drafting interview reports, sending
leads and managing their caseloads,” Harrington said.  Managing Evidence  Sentinel was intended to serve as the bureau’s records
repository and provide agents and analysts with a Web-based
system to manage evidence and automate the review of documents,
according to the report.  The report said that the inspector general has
“significant concerns and questions” about the FBI’s latest
approach to complete the project “within budget, in a timely
fashion, and with similar functionality as what the Sentinel
project previously sought to provide.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  