-- TV Stations May Share Channels to Make Way for Mobile Internet
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-10-21T15:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/fcc-may-let-tv-stations-share-airwaves-to-make-way-for-mobile-web-service.html
Television broadcasters may share
their digital channels to make room for mobile high-speed
Internet service under new rules, Federal Communications
Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said.  The voluntary sharing and an easier process for
experimental use of airwaves are among strategies for making
more space available for Web use that the agency plans to
discuss at its meeting next month, Genachowski said today.  Demand for airwaves, or spectrum, is outstripping supply as
consumers use data-hungry smartphones and tablet devices such as
 Apple Inc. ’s iPad, Genachowski said at an agency event in
Washington. The value of spectrum to be freed for new uses might
reach $120 billion, he said.  “We can drive billions of dollars in private investment,”
Genachowski said. “If we don’t act to update our policies for
the 21st century, we’re going to run into a wall -- a spectrum
crunch.”  President  Barack Obama  said in June the United States
should almost double the airwaves available for smartphones,
laptop connections to the Internet and new wireless devices.  “We’re going to continue to move forward aggressively,”
Genachowski said. Revisions of rules are needed to let stations
share airwaves and allow new uses for their channels, he said.  TV stations transmit using digital technology and can
broadcast two or more channels over airwaves that supported a
single channel using the analog format, according to an FCC fact
sheet. Letting stations voluntarily share channels would free
airwaves that might be auctioned in the future for other uses,
the FCC said.  Broadcasters’ Needs  Broadcasters have said they need their current swath of
airwaves to offer viewers multiple programs at the same time,
and to expand into services such as mobile TV.  Dennis Wharton , a spokesman for the  National Association of
Broadcasters , said in an e-mail yesterday the Washington-based
trade group “looks forward to working with the FCC” to meet
the needs of a mobile Internet “without compromising the finest
free and local broadcasting system in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at   aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 