-- Fed's Lacker Says More Purchases `Hard Case to Make'
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-10-20T21:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/fed-s-lacker-says-more-purchases-hard-case-to-make-with-growth-in-line.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said a new round of asset purchases by
the central bank “would be a hard case to make” with economic
growth in line with his outlook.  The Beige Book report released by the Fed today shows
“what I expected several months ago,” which is an economic
expansion of about 2 percent during the second half, Lacker told
reporters in College Park, Maryland. He said he would make up
his mind on monetary policy when Fed officials meet in two
weeks.  Lacker’s comments contrast with Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said Oct. 15 that he sees a “case for further
action” with inflation too low and unemployment too high.
Lacker is among several Fed policy makers who have voiced doubt
that the benefits of further asset purchases outweigh the
potential costs.  Economists at firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
expect the Fed to announce the purchase of securities at the end
a two-day policy meeting on Nov. 3.  Earlier today, the Fed said in its Beige Book business
survey that the U.S. economy expanded at a “modest pace” in
September and early October with little sign of accelerating and
companies still hesitant to hire.  Asked if he’s concerned about the weakening in the U.S.
dollar, Lacker said the currency is “responding to shifting
expectations about policy in different countries.” While a
decline increases the cost of imports, “it’s going to be
favorable for our manufacturing exports, so you have to take
into account a range of effects,” he said.  Lacker, 54, has led the Richmond Fed since 2004. Fed
presidents rotate voting on monetary policy with Lacker next
voting in 2012.  Inflation Goal  While Lacker has previously advocated adopting a numerical
inflation goal, he said he was skeptical about announcing it in
the  Fed’s policy statement  or trying to increase the public’s
inflation expectations, two options the Fed may consider.  “I’m not sure that’s the appropriate place for it, just
because you want an objective to be viewed as chiseled in stone
and not frequently changed,” Lacker said of putting an
inflation target in the statement. He spoke at an economics
seminar for the press held by the Richmond Fed at the University
of Maryland.  Lacker said he doesn’t have a “lot of confidence that we
can engineer through our statements or actions variations in
expected inflation at a relatively frequent periodicity.”  The Richmond Fed chief reiterated that he prefers an
inflation rate of about 1.5 percent. Inflation, measured by
central bankers’ preferred gauge of the personal consumption
expenditures price index, minus food and energy, has been below
the Fed’s goal for five consecutive months. The price measure
rose 1.4 percent for the 12 months ending in August.  Bernanke last week cited the index’s 1.1 percent annual
pace for the first eight months of 2010. Most Fed officials’
long-term preferred range for the inflation rate is about 1.7
percent to 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in College Park, Maryland, at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  