-- Fidelity National to Require Banks to Sign Foreclosure Warranty
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-10-20T21:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/fidelity-national-to-require-banks-to-sign-warranty-for-foreclosure-sales.html
Fidelity National Financial Inc. ,
the largest U.S. title insurer by market share, will require
lenders to sign a warranty assuring their paperwork is sound
before backing sales of foreclosed homes.  An indemnity covering “incompetent or erroneous affidavit
testimony or documentation” must be signed for all foreclosure
sales closing on or after Nov. 1, the Jacksonville, Florida-
based company said in a memorandum to employees today. The
agreement was prepared in consultation with the American Land
Title Association and mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, Fidelity National said.  “It’s just the prudent thing to do,”  Peter Sadowski ,
executive vice president and chief legal officer for Fidelity
National, said in an interview. “It is important for the
servicers and the lenders to represent to us and to the people
we are going to be insuring that there are no problems.”  Bank of America Corp. , the biggest U.S. lender, agreed to a
similar contract with Fidelity National on Oct. 8, the same day
it extended a freeze on foreclosures to all states amid concern
by federal and state officials that lenders are seizing homes
without properly reviewing documents. The bank plans to start
resubmitting foreclosure affidavits next week. Attorneys general
across the country have opened a joint investigation into
foreclosures, saying they will seek an immediate halt to any
improper practices at mortgage lenders and loan servicers.  Fidelity National, in separate announcements today, named a
new chief executive officer and said that its earnings rose 13
percent in the third quarter.  Share Decline  Fidelity National  shares  dropped 7.8 percent this month
through yesterday amid concern that foreclosure mistakes may
allow former owners to challenge the repossession of their
homes. Shares of Santa Ana, California-based First American
Financial Corp., the No. 2 insurer, fell 3 percent. The  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index  gained 2.2 percent in that time.  Title insurers use their records and public documents to
verify a seller is the home’s true owner and that the property
is free from liens. They collect a one-time premium at the
closing of the purchase and pay costs that may arise if someone
disputes the new owner’s right to the property.  The indemnity agreement requires lenders to protect title
insurers at their own expense from “any and all liability,
loss, costs, damage and expense of every kind” if errors arise
in foreclosure procedures, according to the document.  Attorney’s Fees  The expenses may include attorney’s fees, a decrease in the
property’s value and inability to sell the title, Fidelity said
in the document. The lender must also notify the insurer in each
case that a foreclosure complies with state laws and
regulations, according to the agreement.  The indemnity agreement is available for use by all title
insurers, Fidelity National said.  “This is a standard all lenders should follow,” said  Kurt Pfotenhauer , chief executive officer of the American Land Title
Association, a Washington-based trade group. “The sooner that
indemnification agreement is adopted market-wide, the more
confidence investors can have in this foreclosure market.”  Costs for title insurers to defend customers and reimburse
for lost properties rose to $480.5 million in the first half of
2010, up 14 percent from a year earlier, according to the
association.  Fidelity National had 38 percent of the title insurance
market in the second quarter, according to the trade group.
 First American  had a 27 percent share.  Scanlon Replaces Stinson  Fidelity National CEO  Alan L. Stinson  stepped down and will
be replaced in that position by Chief Operating Officer  George P. Scanlon , the company said in a statement today.  Stinson decided to remain with Fidelity National in a “less
rigorous capacity” as an executive vice president, Chairman
 William P. Foley III  said in the statement.  Separately, the company said its third-quarter earnings
rose to $83.2 million, or 36 cents a share, from $73.4 million,
or 32 cents, a year earlier. Foreclosures halted because of
documentation problems won’t have a “material adverse impact” on
Fidelity National’s title business, Foley said in the earnings
statement.  “Even if a court sets aside a foreclosure due to a defect
in documentation, the foreclosing lender would be required to
return all funds obtained from our insureds, resulting in no
loss under the title insurance policy,” Foley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  