-- FIFA Suspends Two Executive Committee Members as World Cup Bid Sale Probed
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2010-10-20T18:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/fifa-suspends-two-voters-as-world-cup-bid-bribery-charge-is-investigated.html
Soccer’s governing body suspended
two executive committee members as part of an investigation into
the possible sale of votes for the bidding for the 2018 and 2022
World Cups.  Amos Adamu  of Nigeria and Reynald Temarii of Tahiti were
given a provisional suspension, FIFA’s ethics committee chairman
Claudio Sulser said today at a press conference. The Sunday
Times of London on Oct. 17 alleged Adamu and Temarii told
undercover reporters their votes could be exchanged for cash.
Sulser also said his panel is looking at possible collusion
between a bid from Qatar and one from Spain and Portugal.  “The decision to provisionally suspend these officials is
fully justified and should not be put in question,” Sulser said
in a statement. “The evidence that has been presented to us
today has led us to take this provisional measure, as we
considered that the conditions were definitely met to take this
decision and we deem that it is crucial to protect the integrity
of the 2018 and 2022 FIFA World Cup bidding process.”  Four other officials, Slim Aloulou, Amadou Diakite,
Ahongalu Fusimalohi and Ismael Bhamjee, were also provisionally
suspended in relation to an alleged breach of FIFA rules. They
too were caught in the newspaper probe, telling reporters that
they could facilitate access to the men who’ll decide where the
tournaments will be held.  FIFA will also open a probe into alleged agreements between
member associations and their bid committees. A decision will be
made in mid-November.  Earlier this week FIFA’s former general secretary  Michel Zen-Ruffinen  said in an interview that the bidding countries
would break the competition’s rules and cut deals in their
efforts to host the event, which the U.S., a bidder for the 2022
event, said is worth $5 billion.  Bidding Process  For the first time FIFA is deciding at the same time where
two editions of the quadrennial tournament will be held. That
increases the likelihood of bidders and officials negotiating
and trading, according to Zen-Ruffinen, who was dismissed by
FIFA in 2002 after opposing the re-election of President  Sepp Blatter .  “There is no doubt that’s the case,” Zen-Ruffinen said.  The balloting for the 2018 and 2022 sites will take place
behind closed doors in a conference room in Zurich. The
executive members vote anonymously.  Michel D’Hooghe , one of the 24 men who will decide the
World Cup venues, said he’s backing his own country’s bid but
would vote for the next best candidate should Belgium and the
Netherlands’ joint offer be eliminated. He couldn’t say how
other FIFA officials would make up their minds.  Best Marketing  “I will seriously examine every candidate and try to find
the best solution for the future of the football world,”
D’Hooghe said in an interview Oct. 7. “I can only look in my
own heart and I cannot look into the heart of my 23
colleagues.”  Mohamed Bin Hammam , the head of soccer in Asia, on the same
day said the bids with the best marketing, not necessarily the
best candidates, would be triumphant.  The U.S. said Oct. 15 it was withdrawing from the bidding
for the 2018 event to concentrate on its proposal for 2022. That
left England, Russia and joint bids from Spain and Portugal as
well as Belgium and the Netherlands still in contention for
2018. Japan, South Korea, Australia and Qatar are remaining
bidders for 2022.  The bidding is the most competitive since Germany beat
South Africa, which hosted this year’s event, to stage the World
Cup in 2006. Zen-Ruffinen said there are likely to be last-
minute negotiations as there were when Germany was selected in
2001.  “Before each vote, there is a so-called ‘Night of the Long
Knives,’ during which there are a lot of promises and
discussions in the corridors,” he said. “The impact of such a
decision is so big that there’s a lot of pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  