-- FIFA Suspends Two Voters as World Cup Bid Sale Is Investigated
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2010-10-21T16:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/fifa-suspends-two-board-members-as-soccer-world-cup-bid-sale-is-probed.html
Soccer’s governing body suspended
two executive committee members and is looking at allegations of
collusion between Spain/Portugal and Qatar as part of a
corruption probe into the bidding for the World Cup.  Amos Adamu  of Nigeria and Reynald Temarii of Tahiti were
given a provisional suspension, FIFA’s ethics committee chairman
Claudio Sulser said yesterday at a press conference. The
suspensions come after the U.K.’s Sunday Times published a
report alleging Adamu and Temarii told undercover reporters
their votes could be exchanged for cash.  “Our society is full of devils and these devils, you find
them in football,” FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  told the press
conference in Zurich. “We have to fight for fair play. We have
to fight for respect and especially we have to fight that the
people in charge of FIFA behave as they should do. If this is
not the case then we have to intervene.”  Adamu denied any wrongdoing, Sky Sports reported.  “I wholly refute all allegations made,” he was cited as
saying in a statement. He said he supported FIFA’s inquiry and
was confident of proving his innocence and integrity.  The investigation into possible deal-making between the
joint Spain/Portugal bid for 2018 and Qatar’s 2022 bid committee
is based on speculation, Sulser said in an interview after the
press conference. The committee will announce its findings in
mid-November.  Angel Maria Villar , a FIFA vice-president who is
joint-leader of the Spain/Portugal bid, declined to comment when
reached by phone today. “It’s very nice to talk to you but I’m
not going to make any comment,” Villar said.  ‘Correct and Clean’  Luiz Lucio, a spokesman for Spain’s government sports
panel, said by telephone the so-called Iberian bid was “correct
and clean” and he was unaware of any details of the
investigation. Bruno Prata, a spokesman for the Portuguese
soccer federation, said it doesn’t plan to comment. Spokespeople
for the Qatar bid couldn’t be reached.  The World Cup is sport’s most-watched event and is worth as
much as $5 billion to the hosts, according to a study by the
U.S., which is competing with Qatar, Japan, South Korea and
Australia to stage the 2022 tournament. Russia, England and a
joint Netherlands/Belgium offer are contending for 2018 along
with Spain/Portugal.  Four other officials, Slim Aloulou, Amadou Diakite,
Ahongalu Fusimalohi and Ismael Bhamjee, were also provisionally
suspended in relation to an alleged breach of  FIFA  rules. They
too were caught in the newspaper probe, telling reporters that
they could facilitate access to the men who’ll decide where the
tournaments will be held.  ‘Fully Justified’  Bidders “are prohibited from entering into any kind of
agreement with any other member association or bid committee as
regards to the behavior during the bid process,” FIFA’s rules
state. Cash inducements to any of the 24 executive committee
members who’ll make the Dec. 2 decision where the competition
will be staged after Brazil in 2014 are also prohibited.  “The decision to provisionally suspend these officials is
fully justified and should not be put in question,” Sulser said
yesterday. “The evidence that has been presented to us today
has led us to take this provisional measure, as we considered
that the conditions were definitely met to take this decision
and we deem that it is crucial to protect the integrity of the
2018 and 2022 FIFA World Cup bidding process.”  Earlier this month, FIFA’s former general secretary  Michel Zen-Ruffinen  said in an interview that the bidding countries
would break the competition’s rules and cut deals in their
efforts to host the event.  Behind Closed Doors  For the first time, FIFA is deciding simultaneously where
two editions of the quadrennial tournament will be held. That
increases the likelihood of bidders and officials negotiating
and trading, according to Zen-Ruffinen, who was dismissed by
FIFA in 2002 after opposing the re-election of President  Sepp Blatter .  “There is no doubt that’s the case,” Zen-Ruffinen said.  The balloting for the 2018 and 2022 sites will take place
behind closed doors in a conference room in Zurich. The
executive members vote anonymously.  Michel D’Hooghe , one of the 24 men who will decide the
World Cup venues, said he’s backing his own country’s bid but
would vote for the next best candidate should Belgium and the
Netherlands’ joint offer be eliminated. He couldn’t say how
other FIFA officials would make up their minds.  “I will seriously examine every candidate and try to find
the best solution for the future of the football world,”
D’Hooghe said in an interview Oct. 7. “I can only look in my
own heart and I cannot look into the heart of my 23
colleagues.”  Best Marketing  Mohamed Bin Hammam , the head of soccer in Asia, on the same
day said the bids with the best marketing, not necessarily the
best candidates, would be triumphant.  The U.S. said Oct. 15 it was withdrawing from the bidding
for the 2018 event to concentrate on 2022.  The bidding is the most competitive since Germany beat
South Africa, which hosted this year’s event, to stage the World
Cup in 2006. Zen-Ruffinen said there are likely to be last-
minute negotiations as there were when Germany was selected in
2001.  “Before each vote, there is a so-called ‘Night of the Long
Knives,’ during which there are a lot of promises and
discussions in the corridors,” he said. “The impact of such a
decision is so big that there’s a lot of pressure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
 Tariq Panja  in London at   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  