-- Florida Catastrophe-Insurance Bonds Pay Price for Ominous Name
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-10-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/florida-catastrophe-insurance-fund-s-bonds-pay-price-for-its-ominous-name.html
  Florida ’s state-run fund backing
insurers against hurricane losses is paying the price for its
ominous name.  Bonds of the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund Finance
Corp., which has $8.2 billion of debt outstanding, yield about 1
percentage point more than similarly rated securities, said John Forney, director of public finance at Raymond James & Associates
Inc., the fund’s financial adviser.  “People don’t necessarily want to buy something called the
catastrophe fund,” Forney told the fund’s advisory council in
Tallahassee yesterday. “We won’t rest until we’ve gotten it
down to where it should be for a credit as strong as the CAT
fund.”  The extra yield investors demanded to hold a five-year 5
percent tax-exempt catastrophe-fund revenue bond maturing in
July 2013 was 139 basis points more than an index of yields of
similar debt yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A 4 percent 10-year revenue issue of the Florida Department
of Environmental Preservation, also due in July 2013 and
similarly rated, yielded only 30 basis points more than the
index, the data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “If they were just an innocuously named Florida
governmental agency, the spread would be narrower,” Terry O’Grady, senior vice president of municipal trading at FMS Bonds
Inc. in  North Miami Beach , Florida, said in a telephone
interview referring to the catastrophe fund’s bonds. “We find
their security to be exceptional.”  Hurricane Andrew  The  catastrophe fund  was created in November 1993 to
maintain the state’s private insurance industry after companies
pulled out following  Hurricane Andrew  in 1992, which caused $25
billion of damage in the U.S. The fund reimburses insurers for
part of their hurricane losses by selling them reinsurance
coverage.  The fund’s bonds are rated AA- by Standard & Poor’s and Aa3
by Moody’s Investors Service, the fourth-highest grade at both
credit evaluators.  Fitch Ratings  upgraded the fund in May to AA,
its third-highest rank, from AA-.  The 1 percent assessment on insurance premiums in Florida
that backs the bonds is “a very stable source of revenue,”
Fitch said. Economic pressures facing  the state  have had “only
a modest impact” on premiums, it said.  Some investors may see extra risk in Florida’s catastrophe
bonds because the timing and size of borrowing depends on the
weather, Forney said. The fund is still reimbursing insurers for
damage claims from 2005, the most active season on record, when
Hurricanes Wilma, Katrina, Rita and Dennis struck the state. In
May, it sold $693 million of securities for the claims.  Negative Coverage  “We call it headline risk,” said Michael J. Schroeder,
president and chief investment officer of Wasmer, Schroeder &
Co. in Naples, Florida, which has $3.8 billion of assets under
management, including the state’s catastrophe bonds. “Fewer
people are going to want bonds with negative newspaper stories
attached.”  Florida has been spared a major storm in the last two
years. The National Hurricane Center in Miami said yesterday
that a Caribbean weather system has a 50 percent chance of
becoming the 17th named storm of the six-month season that ends
Nov. 30. If it does, the current Atlantic season would become
the sixth most-active on record, according to center. The 16
storms so far are tied with 2008, 2003 and 1936 for seventh
place.  The Florida catastrophe fund has $9.4 billion of assets
available to pay storm claims, the council was told, compared
with $9.5 billion in May, according to a presentation at the
time. The probability of a storm causing damage exceeding that
amount is less than 5 percent, the council heard, and the fund
can borrow enough to cover its statutory obligation to pay as
much as $18.8 billion of claims.  Educating Investors  Forney said the fund is making progress educating investors
on its bonds. Fifteen-year catastrophe maturities were trading
at 300 basis points more than top-rated securities in May 2009,
his semiannual presentation to the advisory council said. The
gap narrowed to 186 basis points this month, it said.  “We want to make sure we do enough outreach to investors
to try to minimize that penalty,” Forney said. “We can fight
to get it down and we have gotten it down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 