-- Bank of America, Lehman, JPMorgan in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-20T12:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/florida-foreclosure-lawyer-intel-bofa-lehman-jpmorgan-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp.  and its
Countrywide Home Loans unit were accused of racketeering in a
 lawsuit  filed by two Indiana residents claiming that perjured
affidavits were used to foreclose on their home.  Dwayne Ransom Davis and Melisa Davis filed the complaint
yesterday in federal court in Indianapolis. Their lawyer, Irwin
Levin, confirmed the filing in a phone interview. The filing
couldn’t be independently verified.  “The defendants and their cohorts engaged in a pattern of
racketeering activity in which they routinely and repeatedly
prepared perjured affidavits in order to rapidly churn
foreclosures,” the couple said in the complaint.  Bank of America , the largest U.S. lender, resumed
foreclosures on Oct. 18, after a 10-day nationwide pause to
review more than 100,000 cases.  “Our assessment shows underlying information provided as
the basis for our past foreclosure decisions is accurate,” Rick
Simon, a spokesman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank,
said in an e-mailed statement earlier yesterday.  Simon was responding then to an announcement by Tom Dart,
sheriff of Cook County, Illinois, which includes Chicago, that
he will halt foreclosure evictions starting Oct. 25 unless Bank
of America and two other lenders provide him with assurances
that the proceedings are being lawfully pursued.  “To my knowledge, we have not seen this suit and cannot
comment on it,” Simon said of the Davis case in a later phone
interview yesterday.  The case is Davis v. Countrywide Home Loans Inc., 10-cv-
01303, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis).  FDIC Sued by Bank of America Over Taylor Bean Mortgage Losses  The Federal Insurance Deposit Corp. was sued by  Bank of
America Corp.  over $1.75 billion in investor losses stemming
from an alleged fraud by failed lender Taylor Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp.  The FDIC has denied claims by Bank of America against
Colonial Bank and another financial institution in receivership
that bought fake mortgages from a Taylor Bean unit, Ocala
Funding LLC, according to a complaint filed Oct. 1 in federal
court in Washington. Bank of America was the trustee for notes
issued by Ocala Funding, according to the complaint.  Ocala financed Taylor Bean’s mortgages, issued debt and
used the proceeds to buy the mortgages, Bank of America said in
the complaint. Ocala then sold the notes to pay off the debt or
buy additional mortgages, according to the compliant.  From 2000 to 2009, Taylor Bean and Colonial Bank schemed to
steal from Taylor Bean’s borrowing facilities to hide liquidity
problems,  Bank of America  said in its complaint. Taylor Bean’s
former chairman was accused by the U.S. in June of helping run a
more than $1.9 billion fraud scheme to deceive financial firms
and the government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program by covering
up shortfalls, the Justice Department said in a statement in
June.  The scheme contributed to the failures of Colonial Bank,
which had been one of the 50 largest U.S. banks, and Taylor
Bean, once one of the largest closely held mortgage companies in
the U.S., the agency said.  David Barr, an FDIC spokesman, didn’t return a voice-mail
message seeking comment after regular business hours yesterday.  The case is Bank of America v. FDIC, 10-01681, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Litigation Departments  Foreclosure Fortune Buys Bugatti, Yacht, Mansions for Attorney  For Americans, the foreclosure crisis has wiped out
fortunes, bringing destitution and homelessness. For Florida
attorney David J. Stern, it has brought mansions, a Bugatti
sports car and a luxury yacht, Bloomberg News’s David McLaughlin
reports.  Florida has the third-highest residential foreclosure rate
in the U.S., and Stern, 50, has made a fortune off the bust. His
foreclosure-processing business has generated hundreds of
millions of dollars in revenue preparing documents for the cases
that his law firm brings on behalf of lenders seeking to reclaim
homes from borrowers who can’t pay their mortgages.  Now his business is under scrutiny, as banks suspend
foreclosures and evictions amid allegations that some home
seizures were based on fraudulent documents. Attorneys general
in every U.S. state have joined to probe foreclosure practices
generally. Stern’s foreclosure firm and three others are under
investigation by Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum.  “Some of these law firms we’re dealing with, we have
reason to believe, actually forged documents, committed fraud,
did all kinds of things,” McCollum said in an interview Oct.
15. “We don’t know where this is headed right now.”  Stern’s attorney, Jeffrey Tew, said Stern has used
technology and a well-organized operation to efficiently process
foreclosures. Stern gets a flat fee of about $1,400 a
foreclosure, according to Tew, of  Tew Cardenas LLP  in Miami.  “David’s wealth is a reflection of his acumen and the
tremendous volume of foreclosures,” Tew said in an interview
Oct. 18.  For more, click here.  Lehman Bankruptcy Advisers’ Fees Top $1 Billion  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  paid its lawyers and managers
$51.8 million in September, putting total advisers’ fees over
the billion-dollar mark after 24 1/2 months in bankruptcy court,
according to a court filing.  Restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal LLC, which runs the
defunct investment bank through its co-founder, Bryan Marsal,
led recipients with $356.4 million in fees for “interim
management,” according to an Oct. 18  filing  in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Manhattan.  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP  of New York has
collected $237 million for acting as the lead bankruptcy-law
firm.  Lehman, which pays advisers at the rate of $1.3 million
every day of the year, calculated last month that its creditors
may eventually recover an average of 15.8 cents on the dollar.
The advisers haven’t faced major challenges from the bankruptcy
judge or trustee who monitor such payments.  Lehman, once the world’s fourth-biggest  investment bank ,
filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008
with  assets  of $639 billion. Creditors include Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.,  UBS AG , the New York Giants professional football
team and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority as well as individuals
who hold Lehman bonds.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Madoff Judge Defers Ruling on Feeder Clients’ Claims  The judge overseeing the liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff’s
investment firm deferred a ruling on whether investors who lost
money in so-called feeder funds will receive payments from the
bankruptcy court trustee.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton Lifland in New York yesterday
said he will rule later on the request by trustee Irving Picard
to deny the claims of investors who weren’t direct customers of
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, the firm at the
center of the world’s largest Ponzi scheme.  “It really comes down to a narrow issue: who’s a customer
and who’s entitled to the benefits?” Lifland said after hearing
arguments from both sides in court yesterday. “The statute is
largely formulaic.”  Picard said in December the feeder-fund claims were
rejected because they weren’t from direct Madoff accounts. The
trustee filed a motion in June to obtain the judge’s approval of
that action and to allow objectors to be heard.  Investors in 19 accounts with 16 feeder funds were denied
reimbursement of their claims, the trustee said in the motion.
The feeder funds included Fairfield Greenwich Group, J. Ezra
Merkin’s Gabriel Capital Corp. and Kingate Global Fund.  The feeder funds themselves, not the individual claimants,
are the “customers” of Madoff, David Sheehan, the lawyer for
the trustee, said in the motion. Investors in feeder funds filed
about 1,700 objections, Sheehan said yesterday.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty in March 2009 and is serving a
150-year prison sentence.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Intel Computer Users Object to Class-Action Denial  Intel Corp.  faces objections to a court official’s
recommendation that computer users be denied group status in
their lawsuit accusing the world’s biggest chipmaker of
antitrust violations.  Special Master Vincent J. Poppiti wrote in a July 28 report
to U.S. District Judge Leonard P. Stark in Wilmington, Delaware,
that purchasers of computers with Intel microprocessors “have
not established that they will be able to demonstrate an
antitrust violation through common proof.”  In response to Poppiti’s recommendation, J. Clayton Athey,
a plaintiffs’ lawyer seeking class-action status for the case,
said Oct. 15 in court papers that “the alternative to class
certification is millions of individual actions.”  He wrote that the plaintiffs “have also set forth common
evidence” that “as a result of its anticompetitive conduct,
Intel overcharges for its microprocessors resulting in inflated
PC prices to consumers.”  The computer purchasers’ case was a companion lawsuit to
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. ’s 2005 complaint alleging antitrust
violations by rival Intel.  Intel agreed last November to pay Advanced Micro $1.5
billion to settle that case, which claimed Intel controlled the
microprocessor market by providing discounts to customers to
avoid AMD products.  “We believe the special master was correct to start off
with,” an Intel spokesman, Chuck Mulloy, said in a phone
interview.  The lead case is Paul v. Intel Corp., 05-cv-485, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Bank of America, JPMorgan Chicago Evictions on Hold  Foreclosure evictions by  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and  Ally Financial Inc. ’s GMAC will be suspended
next week in Cook County, Illinois, which includes Chicago,
Sheriff Tom Dart announced.  Dart said yesterday he is halting evictions until he
receives assurances that they are legal. His decision, effective
Oct. 25, affects about 1,500 pending cases, he said.  “I need them to tell me that everything was done
properly,” Dart said at a press conference, referring to the
lenders. He is demanding affidavits to support the banks’ cases,
he said.  It’s the second time since 2008 that Dart has halted Cook
County foreclosure evictions over concerns about lender
practices and procedures. The three affected by yesterday’s
announcement have announced reviews of their paperwork.  Bank of America said Oct. 18 it will start resubmitting
foreclosure affidavits next week in 102,000 cases. It said Oct.
8 it would stop foreclosure sales nationally pending the review.  Dart said his office has reviewed 350 foreclosure cases and
only 17 had complete paperwork to justify an eviction.  Bank of America Loses Bid to Appeal Unlawful Dismissal Lawsuit  Bank of America Corp.  lost a bid to appeal a Hong Kong
court’s order that a former trader’s lawsuit, claiming she was
fired so the bank wouldn’t have to pay a bonus, should go to
trial.  Hong Kong Court of Appeal Judge Maria Yuen yesterday
rejected the bank’s argument that its former employee Sunny
Tadjudin should have sued under a different law.  Tadjudin, who is seeking at least HK$10.9 million ($1.4
million) in damages, also won in June when the same court
overturned an earlier  dismissal  of her claim. Bank of America’s
Hong Kong-based spokesman Mark Tsang then said the bank was
confident the claim will be held to be without merit.  Tsang declined to say yesterday whether the bank will
appeal further.  Tadjudin, who worked for the bank’s distressed debt trading
group from June 2000 to August 2007, claims her former manager
had made false accusations against her in order to fire her and
earn a higher bonus himself. She declined to comment on her case
or yesterday’s ruling.  The case is Tadjudin Sunny and Bank of America NA,
CACV173/2009, Hong Kong Court of Appeal.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Hands Testifies He Wouldn’t Have Bid on EMI Deal  Guy Hands, the founder of Terra Firma Capital Partners
Ltd., testified in his $8.3 billion fraud suit against  Citigroup
Inc.  that his firm wouldn’t have bid on  EMI Group Ltd.  if he had
known there were no other bidders.  Hands, 51, claims that Citigroup’s David Wormsley tricked
him into overpaying for EMI, a 113-year-old music company, in a
2007 auction. Hands testified yesterday on the second day of a
trial in U.S. District Court in Manhattan.  Hands claims Wormsley lied to him in a series of phone
conversations over the weekend leading up to the Monday, May 21,
2007, auction for EMI, falsely telling him that Cerberus Capital
Management LP planned to submit a competing bid.  “If he hadn’t made those statements, we wouldn’t have been
bidding that Monday morning at all,” Hands told jurors, under
questioning by his lawyer, David Boies.  Hands told jurors that several rival bidders dropped out in
the days before the May 21, 9 a.m. deadline for bids, including
 Fortress Investment Group LLC ,  Warner Music Group Corp.  and
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s One Equity Partners.  Hands said that on the final weekend before the auction,
Wormsley, whom he described as his friend and business
associate, told him that Cerberus remained in the auction and
was bidding 2.62 pounds per share. Hands told jurors about a
telephone conversation he said he had with Wormsley from the
study of his home, at midnight, nine hours before the bids were
due.  “He told me that Cerberus were there at 262, that the bid
had to be in at 9 a.m. the next morning and he told me not to
play any games with the price,” Hands testified.  If he had known the process had turned into a “busted
auction,” with his firm the only bidder, Terra Firma would have
withdrawn from the bidding and negotiated with the sellers
directly for a lower price, Hands told jurors.  The morning after his midnight phone call with Wormsley,
Hands said, he spoke to Tim Pryce, Terra Firma’s chief executive
officer who was, at the time, the firm’s general counsel. Hands
said he told Pryce to go forward with Terra Firma’s bid of 2.65
pounds a share.  The case is Terra Firma v. Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Bawag CEO Elsner Should Be Given New Trial, Prosecutor Says  Austrian prosecutors recommended that former Bawag PSK Bank
Chief Executive Officer Helmut Elsner should be given a new
trial on charges that he misused funds and caused 1.7 billion
euros ($2.4 billion) in losses at the bank.  The findings of the court in 2008 weren’t sufficient for a
guilty conviction of Elsner, prosecutor Erich Weiss said in
arguments filed to Austria’s supreme court on Oct. 15, his
spokesman, Wilfried Seidl said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Elsner, 75, and his fund manager Wolfgang Flottl, 55, were
the most prominent among nine men convicted in 2008 of charges
including improper use of funds, fraud and false accounting. The
losses were discovered in 2006 after U.S. futures broker  Refco
Inc.  collapsed into bankruptcy.  “We recommend nullifying the verdicts and sending them
back to the first court” for a retrial, Weiss said. “The
findings were not sufficient for a guilty verdict” on several
counts for Elsner and all counts for Flottl, Seidl said.  Austria’s supreme court has scheduled two days starting
Dec. 22 to discuss the case, court spokesman Ronald Rohrer said.
The court isn’t bound by the prosecutors’ recommendation.  Elsner’s lawyer, Wolfgang Schubert, wasn’t available for a
comment.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Pfizer Wins Arkansas Woman’s Lawsuit Over Prempro  Pfizer Inc.  properly warned an Arkansas woman about the
cancer risks of its Prempro menopause drug, jurors found in
rejecting her bid for at least $3.5 million in damages.  Jurors in federal court in Little Rock, Arkansas,
deliberated less than an hour before siding with Pfizer, the
world’s  largest drugmaker . Margaret Wilson, a 68-year-old former
bank teller, claimed that Prempro helped caused her breast
cancer and executives of Pfizer’s Wyeth unit hid the medicine’s
health risks from women and their doctors.  Wyeth now has won six of the 13 Prempro cases decided by
juries since trials began in 2006. Wyeth got some verdicts
against it thrown out at the post-trial stage or had awards
reduced. Wyeth also has won dismissals of more than 3,000 cases
before trial, the company said in a statement.  The jury’s decision “affirms that Wyeth communicated the
risks and benefits of Prempro,” Chris Loder, a Pfizer
spokesman, said in the statement.  The case is Wilson v. Wyeth, MDL 03-cv-1507-WRW, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Arkansas (Little Rock).  For more about the verdict, click here.  For more about a new study of Prempro, click here.  Wridgways Wins Court Approval for Plan to Sell to Santa Fe  Wridgways Australia Ltd.  won an Australian court’s approval
for its plan to sell the company to  Santa Fe EAC Moving and
Relocation Services  for A$89.6 million ($88.6 million), to be
voted on by shareholders Nov. 25.  Santa Fe’s offer of A$2.80 a share is 10 percent less than
the high end of a range of A$2.60 to A$3.11 that accounting firm
BDO Australia concluded Wridgways was worth, Federal Court Judge
Peter Jacobson said at a hearing in Sydney yesterday.  “The court doesn’t usurp the judgment of the
shareholders,” said Jacobson, who had to decide whether the
plan was fair. It will be up to the shareholders to decide
whether the A$2.80 offer is adequate, he said.  Closely held Santa Fe, based in Hong Kong, offered on Sept.
20 to buy Wridgways, a 117-year-old Australian moving company
with 30 offices and 470 employees, under a so-called scheme of
arrangement. Under the plan, Santa Fe must win support from 75
percent of Wridgways shareholders and the judge must approve it.  Jacobson raised concern that parts of the plan protecting
Santa Fe’s bid, including its right to match any competing offer
and a lack of a provision giving a potential rival bidder time
to respond to a matching offer, might be anti-competitive.  “It’s a disincentive to a competing bidder,” he said.  Wridgways must inform the shareholders of any superior
offer that’s made, and a rival bidder will have time to respond
to Santa Fe’s match because of a delay before shareholders get a
chance to vote, Malcolm Oakes, a lawyer for the company, told
the judge.  The case is Application by Wridgways Australia Ltd.,
NSD1227/2010, Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 