-- Washington Post's Kaplan, For-Profit Schools Are Focus of Florida Probe
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-10-20T04:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/florida-probing-kaplan-for-profit-colleges-after-complaints-u-s-report.html
The  Washington Post Co. ’s Kaplan
unit and four other for-profit colleges are being investigated
by Florida’s attorney general for possible misrepresentations
about financial aid, recruitment and accreditation.  The civil investigation was initiated after consumer
complaints and the U.S. Government Accountability Office issued
a report for a U.S. Senate hearing in August about for-profit
colleges,  Ryan Wiggins , a spokeswoman for Florida Attorney
General  Bill McCollum , said yesterday in a phone interview.  “We have received a number of complaints,” Wiggins said.
“The combination of the complaints and the report that came
out” prompted the attorney general’s lawyers to begin an
investigation, she said.  Michele Pore, a spokeswoman for Kaplan, said yesterday in
an e-mail that the company wasn’t aware of an investigation and
hadn’t been contacted by the attorney general’s office.  The other schools under investigation include  Education
Management Corp. ’s Argosy Education Group Inc., Education
Affiliates Inc.’s MedVance Institute,  Apollo Group Inc. ’s
University of Phoenix and  Corinthian Colleges Inc. ’s Everest
College, according to Wiggins.  Wiggins declined to say if the probe might widen to include
more schools. “We’re just in the investigation process right
now,” she said.  Apollo Group hasn’t been notified by the Florida attorney
general’s office of an investigation, the company said yesterday
in a statement.  “We support efforts to enhance accountability within
higher education and we strive to play a leadership role in
continuously improving and transparently reporting the outcomes
and achievements of students served by our schools,” Apollo
Group said in the statement.  Representatives for Education Management, Education
Affiliates and Corinthian Colleges didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment after regular business hours yesterday.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier on Florida’s
investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 