-- Fonterra Cooperative Agrees to Develop Dairy Farm in China's Yutian County
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-10-20T07:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/fonterra-plans-dairy-farm-in-china-to-tap-rising-demand-for-milk-products.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. , the
world’s largest dairy exporter, has agreed to develop a dairy
farm in China’s Hebei province to expand local milk production.  The farm, in Yutian county, will hold 3,000 cows imported
from New Zealand, the Auckland-based company said in a statement.
Fonterra will invest NZ$42 million ($31 million), it said.  Fonterra is seeking to rebuild its business in China after
a melamine contamination in 2008 killed at least six infants,
put more than 54,000 in hospital, and caused the collapse of its
local partner Sanlu Group. Demand is likely to increase as
incomes rise, industry group  Dairy Australia  forecasts.  “It’s a significant market already and growing fairly
quickly,” said Joanne Bills, strategy and knowledge manager
with the Melbourne-based group. “As long as incomes continue to
grow and the infrastructure and distribution network continues
to develop, we’d see” consumption increasing, she said.  Fonterra’s existing Tangshan farm, also in Yutian county,
has doubled to more than 6,000 cows since it opened in 2007 and
produces about 25 million liters of milk for local consumption,
the company said.  “China is a very important market for Fonterra, and we’re
committed to developing and investing in the local dairy
industry over the long term,” said Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Ferrier  in the statement. “The Tangshan Fonterra Farm
pilot successfully demonstrated our ability to produce high
quality milk locally.”  Milk Powder  Imports of whole milk powder by China are forecast to
increase in 2010 after rising nearly fourfold in 2009 to 176,000
metric tons, representing about 12 percent of the global trade,
according to the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource
Economics-Bureau of Rural Sciences.  “China’s milk production is beginning to recover from the
sharp decline in 2008 and farmers are likely to rebuild herds,
the bureau said in a quarterly  report  last month. “Further
growth in milk production in 2011 may reduce the demand for
imported milk powders.”  Fonterra represents about 40 percent of the global trade in
butter, milk powder and cheese, selling $12 billion of products
in 140 countries. The Yutian farm will cover 42 hectares and
include 12 barns, feed storage and milking facilities, Fonterra
said. Construction of the new farm will take about 12 months and
milking is expected to begin in November 2011, it said.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Phoebe Sedgman  at 
 Psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
 Wendy Pugh  at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  