-- Foreigners Buy Iran Shares at Three Times Pace as Investment Rules Change
-- B y   A l i   S h e i k h o l e s l a m i
-- 2010-10-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/foreigners-buy-iran-shares-at-three-times-pace-as-investment-rules-change.html
Foreigners bought three times as
many shares in Iran’s publicly traded companies in the past six
months as they did a year earlier after the authorities changed
the rules to attract international investors.  Foreigners invested $250 million in Iranian stocks since
March 21, the beginning of the Iranian year, after investing
$140 million in all of the preceding 12 months, Hassan Ghalibaf-
Asl, the Tehran Stock Exchange’s president said in an interview
in Paris after attending the annual meeting of the  World
Federation of Exchanges .  TSE’s benchmark index, the Tepix, has surged 63 percent
year-to-date, making it the third-fastest growing primary index
in the world, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In April 2010, Iran introduced  regulations  to attract
foreign investors. The rule changes enabled investors to
repatriate their capital without any time restrictions. Under
the previous rules, foreigners had to leave the principal of
their investments in shares for three years.  “Now there is no such limit,” Ghalibaf-Asl said. “A
foreign investor was not allowed to buy more than 10 percent of
a company’s shares. This has now increased to 20 percent.”  According to Ali Sanginian, TSE vice president for research
and business development, the new rules force the authorities to
exchange foreigners’ shareholdings in Iranian rials whenever
they want.  “The  central bank  is, by law, obliged to exchange your
rials whenever you need to repatriate your money,” he said.  Foreign investors’ money is guaranteed and insured against
nationalization and revolutions, Sanginian said without giving
any explanation of how the guarantee works.  The TSE lists 338 companies with a total value of 860
trillion Iranian rials ($82.4 billion). The Tepix lost 0.4
percent to 18,230 yesterday.  The TSE will offer foreign-exchange futures once the
central bank has approved the contracts, Ghalibaf-Asl said. The
exchange introduced futures contracts for some shares in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Sheikholeslami in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 