-- Ex-JPMorgan Banker Loses U.K. Case Over Pre-Nuptials
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-10-20T10:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/former-jpmorgan-banker-loses-u-k-pre-nuptial-case-in-supreme-court-ruling.html
Pre-nuptial agreements may be given
decisive weight in U.K. divorces, the nation’s highest court
ruled today in a case that brings the U.K. a step closer to
U.S.-style “pre-nups.”  The Supreme Court in London ruled that a divorce settlement
between a wealthy German heiress and a former  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  investment banker could be reduced because of a “pre-nup.”  Pre-nups in England and Wales have gained popularity during
a decade-long trend of judges awarding large settlements to
departing spouses, lawyers say. The contracts help to avoid such
payouts in divorce cases, and U.K. judges are giving them
greater weight.  “Anybody with any money will now want a pre-nup -- they’d
be mad not to,” Mark Harper, a family lawyer at Withers LLP
said in a telephone interview. Today’s ruling is “a huge
boost” to U.K. pre-nups, said Harper, who isn’t connected with
the case.  The dispute involves Nicolas Granatino, a French-born
former banker who was seeking a bigger divorce payout from
German heiress Katrin Radmacher. He claimed their pre-nup
shouldn’t be enforced because Radmacher withheld the full extent
of her wealth and he didn’t have proper legal advice when he
signed it.  “I’m really pleased with the ruling, but saddened at the
four-year process that brought us to this point,” Radmacher
said in a statement after the ruling. “For Nicolas and I, in
our homelands -- France and Germany -- these agreements are
entirely normal and routine.”  Granatino’s lawyer,  Fiona Shackleton , didn’t immediately
respond to a message seeking comment.  Promises  Granatino and Radmacher wed in England in 1998 and raised
two daughters in London’s Chelsea neighborhood. Radmacher, whose
wealth stemmed from the family’s paper manufacturing business,
asked Granatino to sign a pre-nup holding that neither party
would benefit financially in a divorce.  “We made a promise to each other that if anything went
wrong between us, both of us would walk away without making
financial claims on each other,” Radmacher. “The promise made
to me was broken.”  Granatino left his banking career in 2003 to work at
 Hertford College,  part of the University of Oxford, where he
earned about 30,000 pounds ($47,000) a year, according to a
review of the case by law firm Speechly Bircham. When the pair
separated in 2006, Granatino’s savings had been depleted and
Radmacher was supporting the family. She filed for divorce the
next year.  ‘Significant Minority Interests’  According to an earlier judgment in the case, Radmacher had
liquid assets of more than 50 million pounds and “significant
minority interests” in two German companies.  The first U.K. judge who ruled on their divorce case didn’t
defer to the pre-nup and awarded Granatino about 6 million
pounds. The Court of Appeal overturned that settlement, giving
greater weight to the contract.  If a pre- or post-nuptial agreement “is to carry full
weight, both the husband and the wife must enter into it of
their own free will, and without undue influence or pressure,
and informed of its implications,”  Nicholas Phillips , president
of the supreme court, said in his ruling today.  Granatino claims the appeals court exceeded its authority
by deferring to the pre-nup, and that the decision amounted to
“judicial legislation.” The judges held that pre-nups are
enforceable when entered into freely by both parties.  The case is Radmacher v Granatino, Case ID: UKSC 2009/0031.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 