-- Fortress Investment Sees Opportunities in Japan as Banks Sell Properties
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2010-10-20T05:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/fortress-sees-significant-opportunities-in-the-japanese-property-market.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC , which
has $41.7 billion of assets under management, said there are
investment opportunities in the Japanese real estate market
because some banks may sell properties as loans come due.  “The distressed space in Japan today is extremely
compelling,”  Thomas Pulley , managing director at Fortress Real
Estate (Asia) GK, said at the  Real Estate Investment World 
conference in Tokyo yesterday. “We believe the opportunities
for Fortress are significant.”  “A fair portion” of $50 billion worth of real estate will
have to be sold in the next three to five years as loans backed
by those properties come due, according to Tokyo-based Pulley.
Some Japanese banks may have to sell properties that were used
as collateral as real estate values in Japan fall about 30
percent to 40 percent, he said.  Real estate values in Tokyo started to drop after they
peaked in the fourth quarter of 2007 as global financial crisis
unfolded. Property owners and funds, facing declining property
prices, will either have to inject new capital or return
properties to lenders as collateral when property loans are due.  Total commercial mortgage debt in Japan this year will
reach a record high 1.12 trillion yen ($14 billion), a 59
percent increase from last year, according to an estimate by
Moody’s Investors Service.  Fortress, based in New York, closed the Fortress Japan
Opportunity Domestic Fund in June at 75 billion yen, saying it
would invest in real estate debt and other assets in Japan over
the next 12 months, according to a statement distributed by
Business Wire.  Fortress Real Estate this month hired Douglas Smith, former
head of real estate financing at Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo, as a
managing director to oversee its property investment advisory
business, according to three people familiar with the situation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  