-- French Police Unblock Fuel Depots as Government Says Imports Reach Record
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-20T11:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/french-police-unblock-fuel-depots-as-government-says-imports-reach-record.html
French police opened three fuel
depots blocked by protesters in the country’s west and the
government said imports reached a record as ports and refineries
remained shut because of a strike.  “Western France is threatened with serious shortages,”
French Interior Minister  Brice Hortefeux  said at a press
conference in Paris today. Trucks are delivering fuel from
depots in La Rochelle, the Donges refinery near Nantes and Le
Mans, he said. Police dismantled barricades blocking access to
21 depots in the past few days, the minister said.  France has 213 fuel storage depots across the country, some
of which have been blocked by workers protesting a plan by the
government to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62. A week-
long strike at refineries and the snarling of fuel distribution
from the depots have created shortages at about 40 percent of
service stations, government spokesman Luc Chatel said today.  “If the current situation continues there will be serious
consequences for our society and economy,” Hortefeux said,
pledging to unblock all the depots. “Companies would be
sacrificed and jobs would be lost.”  Imports of refined products reached a record yesterday
after temporary changes in tax and customs procedures, the
government said in a statement after a weekly cabinet meeting.
France imports diesel, which powers more than three-quarters of
new cars, and exports gasoline. Diesel shortages have been more
widespread than gasoline since strikes at refineries began.  French oil companies plan to share supplies and transport
in order to combat shortages,  Jean-Louis Schilansky , head of the
refiners’ Union Francaise des Industries Petroliers, said after
a meeting with Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  yesterday.  Port workers are blocking crude imports at terminals in
Marseille, Le Havre and near the Donges refinery. Sixty-nine
vessels were stranded at the oil hubs of Fos and Lavera today
including 32 crude carriers and 19 tankers carrying refined
products, according to a port of Marseille statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkenned3@bloomberg.net  