-- Gene Therapy for Depression in Mice May Lead to Tests in Monkeys, Humans
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-10-20T20:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/gene-therapy-for-depression-in-mice-may-lead-to-tests-in-monkeys-humans.html
Gene therapy eased symptoms of
depression in a mouse study that may spur new research in
humans, scientists said.  The researchers studied mice that acted depressed and
lacked a protein, called p11, thought to play a role in brain
function. When the authors injected a gene into the animals’
brains that produced the protein, they behaved normally, said a
report in the journal  Science Translational Medicine .  If the therapy also works in an ongoing study in monkeys,
the researchers said they would seek approval to test it in
people within a year or two. Gene therapies have shown success
in treating Parkinson’s disease and brain and eye disorders.
This would be the first human test of a gene therapy in a
psychiatric condition with an known cause.  “The use of gene therapy to treat complex psychiatrist
diseases represents uncharted territory,” said  Husseini Manji ,
the neuroscientist, and two colleagues from Johnson & Johnson,
the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based drugmaker, in a commentary
that accompanied the study.  Human testing must be approved by an oversight committee
for research at universities and this therapy is likely to face
resistance, said  David Antonuccio , a psychologist and professor
of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at the University of
Nevada School of Medicine in Reno.  “My worry would be for the unintended and unexpected
consequences of altering genes in humans,” Antonuccio said in
an e-mail. “With drug research, at least the drug can be
stopped.”  Urgent Need  Still, an urgent need exists to find a better treatment for
depression, said  Michael Kaplitt , a neurosurgeon at New York-
Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center in New York,
who led the experiment, in a telephone interview yesterday.  “I think it would be a major mistake to prevent this
treatment from moving forward,” said Kaplitt, a founder and
shareholder of  Neurologix Inc. , a Fort Lee, New Jersey, company
that has licensed the rights to the gene therapy used in the
trial. “Major depression is one of the most prevalent diseases
in the world and one of the major causes of lost work time.”  The experimental therapy builds on the research of  Paul Greengard , a professor at Rockefeller University in New York who
won the Nobel Prize in physiology and medicine in 2000 for work
on how brain chemicals, called neurotransmitters, aid
communication between nerve cells in the brain.  Serotonin in Depression  In 2006,  Greengard  and his colleagues reported that a
protein called p11 enables neuron receptors to connect with a
neurotransmitter called serotonin. Serotonin is thought to be
involved in depression and is the brain chemical that
antidepressants like  Eli Lilly & Co.’s  Prozac attempt to boost.  Greengard is a founder and shareholder in  Intra-Cellular
Therapies  Inc., a closely held company based in New York that
has licensed patents for p11. He and Kaplitt collaborated on the
research and were the senior authors of today’s paper.  If people have too little p11, it may help explain why
they’re depressed and why antidepressants don’t help them,
Kaplitt said in a telephone interview yesterday.  The mice in the study were given two tests often used to
measure depression and the effects of antidepressant drugs. The
mice stopped struggling more quickly than normal when they were
held upside down by their tails, or put in a water tank from
which they couldn’t escape.  Rat pups bred to have no p11 had the protein injected into
their brains when they were two days old. After recovering from
the injection, they were seen to struggle longer. They also
displayed more interest in sugar than the other mice, suggesting
they had more interest in pleasure.  Brains of the Dead  To assess human evidence, Kaplitt and his colleagues
examined the brains of depressed and nondepressed people who had
died. Looking at a region called the nucleus accumbens, often
described as the brain’s pleasure center, they found low levels
of p11 in those who had suffered from depression and higher
levels in those hadn’t.  Concluding that low p11 caused the patients’ depression is
making an unwarranted leap, said Antonuccio, the psychiatry
professor. The low p11 levels could be a result of the patients’
depression as easily as a cause of it, he said.  “That is the problem with most correlational results,” he
said yesterday in an e-mail. “Correlation does not mean
causation.”  The research was funded by grants from the U.S. Department
of Defense, the National Institutes of Health and two
foundations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 