-- Bunds Erase Gains, Leaving Yield Little Changed; Two-Year Yield at 0.94%
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-10-20T13:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/german-bonds-gain-as-equities-decline-amid-concern-recovery-is-faltering.html
German government bonds declined,
reversing an earlier advance, as a recovery in stocks sapped
demand for Europe’s safest assets amid growing optimism the
economic recovery will be sustained.  The losses pushed the yield on the two-year note higher for
a sixth day, the longest run of increases since January. The
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index rallied 0.3 percent after
losing as much as 0.4 percent. The European Central Bank is in a
process of “allowing our temporary support measures” for
financial markets to expire, Executive Board member  Juergen Stark  was quoted by Germany’s Die Welt newspaper as saying.  “The data is reaffirming the recovery story and the ECB is
not going to backtrack” from exiting stimulus measures, said
 Kenneth Broux , a senior market economist at Lloyds Banking Group
Plc in London. “The charts don’t look constructive for lower
yields from here.”  The yield on the two-year German note increased four basis
points to 0.94 percent as of 1:21 p.m. in London, after reaching
the most since April 15. The 0.75 percent security maturing
September 2012 decreased 0.07, or 70 euro cents per 1,000-euro
($1,387) face amount, to 99.65. The yield on the 10-year bund,
Europe’s  benchmark  security, was little changed at 2.44 percent.  German government bonds have lost 0.67 percent this month,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds have
returned 5.47 percent this month while those of Spain have
handed investors 0.88 percent. Germany’s securities, perceived
to be the safest in Europe, also underperformed amid waning
concern that some peripheral European nations will default on
their debts.  Debate Postponed  Portuguese bonds fell after newspaper Diario Economico
reported the nation’s parliament postponed a debate on the
government’s 2011 budget proposal. The debate will now take
place on Nov. 2 and Nov. 3, the Portuguese newspaper said. It
was previously scheduled to take place on Oct. 28 and Oct. 29.  The yield on the 10-year bond rose four basis points to
5.83 percent, leaving the extra yield, or spread, investors
demand to hold the nation’s securities instead of the German
bund at 330 basis points, from 319 basis points yesterday.  The government’s forecast for 0.2 percent growth in 2011,
may be too optimistic, Fitch Ratings Senior Director  Paul Rawkins  said, according to a report in Diario Economico. The
Finance Ministry cut the forecast on Oct. 16 from 0.5 percent.
Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  presented spending
plans to parliament Oct. 15, including cuts to the public wage
bill and increases in some taxes.  ‘United Effort’  Ireland’s bonds fell as Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said
economic growth is weaker than originally forecast and that a
“united effort” is needed to deal with the nation’s deficit.
Ireland’s 10-year bond yield increased nine basis points to 6.45
percent, pushing the advance over the past two days to 36 basis
points. The securities yielded 390 basis points more than
similar-maturity bunds, up from 383 basis points yesterday.  Spanish bonds were little changed after parliament backed
the country’s 2011  budget  plan, which aims to slash the deficit
by a third, after Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero 
secured a majority through deals with two regional parties.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield was at 4.06 percent, leaving the
 premium  over German bunds at 162 basis points. The spread has
narrowed from a euro-era high of 221 basis points on June 16, as
Greece’s near-default prompted investors to shun bonds of
Europe’s highest-deficit countries.  Economic Slowdown  Losses by bunds may be limited as other reports point to an
economic slowdown.  A gauge of German manufacturing probably decreased to 54.6
in October from 55.1 in the prior month, according to the median
prediction of 26 economists surveyed before the Markit Economics
release tomorrow. It’s “too early” to talk about the end of
the financial crisis, European Central Bank Governing Council
member  Axel Weber  said yesterday.  The German report “will be important, and there we can get
a feel for a forward-looking indicator for the economy, and see
how sustainable economic growth is,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a
fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 