-- GM Seeks Approval of $773 Million Environmental Accord
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-10-21T21:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/gm-seeks-court-approval-for-773-million-environmental-claims-agreement.html
General Motors Corp. ’s unwanted
businesses in bankruptcy won conditional court approval for the
largest manufacturing reorganization in history as a judge
turned down creditors seeking sole rights to a potential
$1.5 billion in lawsuit proceeds.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Robert Gerber  in New York today said
lawyers for Old GM must make changes to its so-called disclosure
statement, which describes the terms of a liquidation and allows
creditors to vote on it.  “The disclosure statement is conditionally approved,”
Gerber said, telling remaining objectors that “this case cannot
be run for the needs and concerns of any subset of GM’s
thousands of creditors.” He overruled objections alleging a
lack of information about issues such as asbestos claim amounts
and personal-injury claims.  Gerber later rejected a request by unsecured creditors to
block the U.S. from claiming any proceeds from a lawsuit seeking
a $1.5 billion and to give them exclusive rights to any
recovery. The government had objected, saying that its loans to
GM gave it a so-called super-priority administrative claim that
must be paid in full before the Chapter 11 plan can be
confirmed.  ‘Without Prejudice’  Gerber said his ruling is “without prejudice” to
underlying issues in the dispute between creditors and the U.S.  Unsecured creditors also objected, saying the plan didn’t
have enough information about who will manage the wind-down.  “People say to me, ‘GM is over,’ but according to bond
prices there is $12 billion to $14 billion to distribute under
the plan,” said  Thomas Moers Mayer , a lawyer for unsecured
creditors. “That’s a real case.”  Mayer said creditors should know who will manage the
liquidation so they can know whether to sell, hold or buy claims
in the bankrupt estate.  When GM filed for bankruptcy in June 2009, it sold
attractive assets to a newly formed company and left unwanted
properties under bankruptcy protection. A plan for Old GM was
first filed in August, proposing to give stock and warrants in
new GM to satisfy the claims of unsecured creditors.  In exchange for the sale of attractive assets to a newly
formed company, now known as General Motors, Old GM received 10
percent of stock in the new company plus warrants for another 15
percent. The warrants’ value will depend on company profit.  Stumbling Block  Old GM announced yesterday it had removed a stumbling block
to ending its bankruptcy with a settlement that would set aside
$773 million to resolve environmental claims by the federal
government and 14 states.  A 30-day period to gather public comment will precede a
request for bankruptcy court approval.  Stephen Karotkin , a lawyer for Old GM, said the disclosure
statement will be updated with more information about the
settlement.  The U.S. Treasury and Canada’s export credit agency loaned
the bankrupt estate what is now $1.2 billion to wind down the
bankrupt properties. The Environmental Protection Agency later
filed claims in the case for environmental cleanup costs, as did
the states.  Money for the environmental settlement will come from past
government loans to the automaker, said  Tim Yost , a spokesman
for the estate.  The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 