-- Goldman’s Cooper Says Money Lust Not Enough to Join 2.2% Hired
-- B y   L i s a   K a s s e n a a r
-- 2010-10-20T04:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/goldman-s-cooper-insists-lust-for-money-not-enough-to-join-2-2-firm-hires.html
Edith Cooper remembers the
questions, almost a decade ago, from a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
client. He interrupted her and a female colleague, then co-heads
of Goldman’s commodities unit for  Europe , as their meeting
began.  “He said, ‘You are two women running a business; how do you
get people to listen to you?’” Cooper recalls. “Then he said,
‘You must manage men. Do they do what you say?’”  Now, all the men -- and women -- at Goldman Sachs have to
listen to Cooper, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its
November issue. As head of human  capital management , she
oversees hiring and training and sits on the five-person panel
that will hand out the coveted titles of managing director and
partner in November. She is one of four women who sit on
Goldman’s 30-member  management committee .  The storm over Goldman Sachs’s role in the financial crisis
-- the firm paid $550 million in July to settle securities fraud
charges -- didn’t slow hiring. Head count has risen more than
50 percent since 2005, and the firm has expanded offices in
Sao Paulo and Mumbai.  “We learn from challenging periods just as we learn from
great periods,” Cooper says in an interview in Goldman’s new
lower  Manhattan  headquarters on a scorching July Friday. “It’s
not that we are perfect. We are people,” she says. “We have to
make sure we have our compass correct.”  Piled Paycheck  Goldman Sachs says applications for full-time positions
rose 31 percent in 2010 from 2009. Only one in 45 people who
apply -- 2.2 percent -- gets a job. Goldman is the most
profitable firm in Wall Street history and divvies up billions a
year in profit among workers.  Goldman Sachs shares yesterday
rose to the highest in six months after the company reported
$1.9 billion in profit for the third quarter, exceeding
analysts’ expectations. Still, Cooper says, those out for the
money alone are making a mistake.  “When you are on the fifth version of something and working
late, you are not going to have your paycheck piled up in front
of you,” she says. “What is going to keep you going is that you
are interested in the business.”  Cooper, 49, grew up in Manhattan and worked after school in
her father’s dental practice. She attended  Harvard University 
and then worked at First Chicago Bank while earning a Master of
Business Administration at Northwestern University’s Kellogg
School of Management. After stints at  Bankers Trust  and Morgan
Stanley, she joined Goldman Sachs in 1996.  In 2000, she moved to  London  with her husband and three
children, then ages 5, 7 and 9. Leaving the U.S. was critical to
grasping a global business, she says.  Sex Not Issue  “As an American, and as an African-American woman in this
business, I thought I was particularly aware and culturally
sensitive,” she says. “I quickly realized that I had some
learning to do.”  She and the colleague were one of the few pairs of women to
co-head a Goldman Sachs unit. After the client’s queries that
day, they said they hadn’t found their sex to be an issue and
carried on, she says.  “By the end of that meeting, he wasn’t wondering if we
could get anyone to listen to us,” she says. He wanted to follow
up on their business suggestions.  Some women say they have a tough time being treated equally
at Goldman Sachs. On Sept. 15, three former employees, including
a managing director, sued the bank, saying they were paid less
than male colleagues and left out of team-building outings on
the golf course.  One former associate said her boss had her make photocopies
and answer his wife’s phone calls, duties her male peers never
had to perform.  Lawsuit  “Men at Goldman Sachs are viewed more favorably, receive
more compensation and are more likely to be promoted,” the
employees said in the complaint. Lucas van Praag, a bank
spokesman, says the charges are without merit.  Cooper says her colleagues inside Goldman Sachs have helped
her throughout her career transitions. When Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  telephoned in 2000 to say she’d been
named a partner, he told her not to be disappointed that her job
would feel the same. As a partner, her responsibility to the
firm had changed, he said. The role of “partner” changed at
Goldman after the company went public in 1999, and those with
the title no longer shared exclusive ownership.  Seven years later, after she joined the management
committee,  Gary Cohn , the bank’s president, pulled her aside to
assess her performance at the group’s Monday morning meetings.  “Some of it wasn’t warm and fuzzy,” she says.  Recent college graduates asking Goldman Sachs recruiters
about the bank’s role in society have helped Cooper and her team
keep an eye on their compass.  “We have to talk about our business in a way that is
transparent and clear,” she says. “Students are very honest and
frank. You can’t really get away with much.”  Editors: Laura Colby, Gail Roche  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Kassenaar in  New York  at 
 lkassenaar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  