-- Greenhill Says Third-Quarter Profit Declines, Matching Analysts' Estimates
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2010-10-20T21:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/greenhill-says-third-quarter-profit-declines-matching-analysts-estimates.html
Greenhill & Co. , the Wall Street
merger adviser, reported a decline in third-quarter profit after
year-earlier earnings were boosted by investment gains. Revenue
from financial advisory fees more than doubled.  Net income decreased to $14.5 million, or 47 cents a share,
from $30 million, or $1.01, in the year-earlier period, which
included gains from merchant-banking investments that are being
wound down and sold, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. Per-share profit matched the average estimate from
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Greenhill boosted its investment banking headcount 60
percent in two years as it added industry specialists from firms
including Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., UBS AG and Citigroup
Inc., to prepare for a rebound in takeovers. Third-quarter
revenue from financial advisory fees jumped to $97 million from
$42.4 million, the company said.  “Our increase in advisory revenue echoes industry
transaction data in suggesting that we are seeing the beginning
of an upturn in market activity,” founder and Chairman  Robert F. Greenhill  said in the statement. “In its early stages that
upturn could produce volatile quarterly results, but it should
represent a substantial opportunity for the firm over time.”  Greenhill’s results fluctuate with the timing of deal
closings, which typically determine when investment banks get
paid. Greenhill-advised deals that closed in the quarter include
St. Louis-based  Emerson Electric Co. ’s acquisition of  Chloride
Group Plc .  Expanding Amid Slump  Greenhill expanded in Australia in March by purchasing
Caliburn Partnership Pty, an advisory firm with offices in
Sydney and Melbourne whose clients have included Rio Tinto Group
and Westpac Banking Corp. The acquisition paid off when Caliburn
client  Lihir Gold Ltd.  of Papua New Guinea was sold during the
quarter for $11 billion to  Newcrest Mining Ltd.  of Melbourne.  The year-earlier results included an unrealized investment
gain of $66.5 million from Greenhill’s holding in Iridium
Communications Inc., the company said in today’s statement.  In December Greenhill, which does not trade securities,
said it would dispose of merchant-banking investments and only
offer advice on takeovers, restructuring and financing. It has
no other businesses to offset the volatility of the M&A cycle or
conflict with clients’ interests.  ‘Talent Migration’  The firm hired investment bankers during the financial
crisis and had 69 managing directors and senior advisers at the
end of 2009, compared with 43 at the end of 2007. Employee
compensation expenses rose to 53 percent of revenue during the
quarter from 46 percent a year earlier.  “The key is to get some positive operating leverage” from
the hiring, said  David Trone , a New York-based analyst at JMP
Securities, in a Sept. 24 report. Those two years “saw an
unprecedented talent migration” from the biggest Wall Street
banks to independent advisory firms, such as Greenhill, Lazard
Ltd. and  Evercore Partners Inc. , Trone said.  Greenhill rose 1.9 percent to $76.42 today in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The stock has declined 4.8
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Henry  in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  