-- Greek Budget-Deficit Data Revisions Will Be Delayed Until Nov. 15, EU Says
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2010-10-20T12:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/greek-budget-deficit-data-revisions-may-be-delayed-by-one-month-eu-says.html
A revision of Greek budget-deficit
figures for 2006-2009 will be delayed until Nov. 15 as the
European Union’s statistics office performs a quality assessment
of the data, the EU said.  “The figures for Greece will be published by mid-
November,”  Amadeu Altafaj , spokesman for EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn , said today in an e-
mailed statement. The statistics office, Eurostat, is
“undertaking a process of quality assessment of statistical
source data from public accounts, in cooperation with the Greek
Statistical Office and the Greek Court of Auditors.”  Eurostat was scheduled to publish revisions to Greece’s
debt and deficit figures on Oct. 22 in a report on all 27 EU
countries. The EU said on Oct. 6 that its estimates for Greece’s
deficit and debt would be revised higher for the years
2006-2009, without specifying the size of the adjustments.  Officials from Luxembourg-based Eurostat have found
“certain entities which have to be re-classified as public
entities, which will have a certain impact upward on the debt
and deficit,” Rehn said two days ago. The Greek government may
have to step up its budget-cutting efforts to meet its 2011
deficit target after the revisions, he said.  Altafaj said the modified Greek figures will be published
on Nov. 15, which he called “the ultimate deadline” for the
data before Greece’s 2011 draft budget and a review linked to
the next disbursement of aid from the EU and the International
Monetary Fund.  ‘Unprecedented Effort’  “The aim of this unprecedented effort is to complete the
audit mission before publishing the figures and therefore get
the figures right,” said Altafaj, noting that Eurostat is
exercising new audit powers for the first time.  Eurostat officials weren’t available to comment.  The EU estimates Greece’s 2009 deficit at 13.6 percent of
 gross domestic product , the highest in the EU after Ireland, and
projects a shortfall this year of 7.8 percent of GDP. In
January, EU officials cited “severe irregularities” in
Greece’s data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jones Hayden  in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  