-- IMF's Lipsky Says China Could Raise Borrowing Costs Further to Tame Prices
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-10-20T06:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/imf-s-lipsky-says-china-could-raise-borrowing-costs-further-to-tame-prices.html
China could continue its efforts
to tame inflation by raising interest rates in tandem with
other economic policies, the second-ranking official at the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  The central bank of China yesterday unexpectedly
increased borrowing costs for the first time since 2007,
lifting the benchmark one-year lending rate to 5.56 percent
from 5.31 percent. Policy makers there are trying to curb
lending and prevent an asset-price bubble.  “This move is consistent with their broader policies,”
 John Lipsky , the IMF’s first deputy managing director, said
in an interview in Tokyo today. “I don’t believe they look
to monetary policy or interest-rate policy alone as a way of
moderating growth in inflation pressures. But it’s perfectly
possible that they’ll, if needed, continue to use interest
rates as well as other policies.”  China’s monetary tightening came days ahead of a meeting
of Group of 20 finance authorities where the yuan is likely
to be discussed. China and other emerging economies have been
criticized for keeping their currencies weak to benefit
exporters. Emerging economies, for their part, have
complained that easy monetary policy in advanced economies is
leading to capital pouring into their markets.  ‘Rebalancing’  Lipsky said that countries need to rely more on private
demand rather than government spending for growth after the
financial crisis, and there needs to be “rebalancing” between
countries with surpluses and those with deficits. Currency
adjustments will play a part in that process, he said.  “Of course competitive devaluations would be damaging -
- I don’t think that’s the way to characterize what’s
happening now,” Lipsky said. “And for sure, one of the
tasks of the G-20 and the IMF and others is to make sure that
doesn’t occur and that people understand it will not occur.”  Finance ministers and central bank governors of the G-20
are set to meet in Gyeongju, South Korea, on Oct. 22-23.  A “beggar-thy-neighbor” policy of devaluation, closing
markets and increasing controls is “doomed to failure,” he
said.  The IMF has considered “for some time” that the yuan is
undervalued and feels it’s appropriate for authorities to
continue increasing the currency’s flexibility in line with
its announcement to do so in June, the IMF official said.  The central bank set the yuan’s daily reference rate 0.3
percent weaker at 6.6754 per dollar today, the biggest
decline since August, reflecting a rally in the U.S. currency.  China’s Rates  Even after yesterday’s policy move, China’s interest
rates are “not terribly high” relative to its inflation rate,
Lipsky said.  As for Japan’s monetary easing this month and the
government’s plans for more stimulus measures, they suggest
that Japan is moving “certainly in the right direction,”
Lipsky said.  The Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 pledged to keep its
benchmark interest rate at “virtually zero” until deflation
has ended and created a fund to buy government debt and other
assets. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  endorsed a 5.1 trillion ($63
billion) yen stimulus package this month to help shield the
economy from the threat of the rising currency.  Lipsky said in real effective exchange-rate terms, “the
Japanese yen appears to be reasonably fairly valued with
respect to the medium-term equilibrium on a broad basis.”  The  weighted average  of the yen’s exchange rate against
other currencies was 104.25 in August, the highest since
February 2009, according to the Bank of Japan.  The Japanese currency advanced to 80.88 against the
dollar on Oct. 15, approaching a postwar record of 79.75
reached in April 1995. Japan’s currency has climbed against
all of its 16 major counterparts this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  