-- Indonesia Said to Start Marketing Samurai Bond Sale, First Since July 2009
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2010-10-20T07:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/indonesia-said-to-start-marketing-samurai-bond-sale-first-since-july-2009.html
Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s biggest
economy, started marketing a sale of 10-year Samurai bonds,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The government told investors it may price the notes on Nov.
4 to yield between 50 basis points and 70 basis points more than
the yen swap rate, said the person, asking not to be identified
as the information is private.  “The issuer is bullish, and for investors it’s tight”
pricing, said  Toshiaki Takahashi , a manager of international and
structured finance in Tokyo for Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co.
“Indonesia may be upgraded by Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s soon,
so this level might reflect that possibility.”  Moody’s Investors Service changed the outlook on
Indonesia’s Ba2 rating to “positive” in June, citing the
country’s “large domestic market that is appropriately managed
by a well-tested economic policy framework.” Indonesia last
sold Samurai bonds in July 2009, when it raised 35 billion yen
($431 million) from 10-year, 2.73 percent notes, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia may sell 6 trillion rupiah ($671 million) of
Samurai bonds, Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  told reporters
in Jakarta on Oct. 14, after the government delayed a 100
billion yen offering of the securities in April.  Samurai bonds are yen-denominated notes sold in Japan by an
overseas borrower. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Mexico sold 150 billion yen of 10-year, 1.51 percent bonds
today at 50 basis point-spread, Bloomberg data show. Indonesia
“seems to be aware of Mexico’s level,” said Takahashi.  Indonesia’s Moody’s rating is the risk assessor’s second-
highest non-investment grade, and the nation is rated an
equivalent BB by S&P, the data show. Mexico has an investment-
grade Baa1 rating at Moody’s and BBB from S&P.  Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. and Nomura Securities
Co. are helping Indonesia sell its yen bonds, the person said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  