-- Inter Milan Holds Off 10-Man Tottenham Team 4-3 in Champions League Match
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-20T22:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/inter-milan-holds-off-10-man-tottenham-team-4-3-in-champions-league-match.html
Inter Milan held on to defeat 10-man
Tottenham 4-3 in soccer’s Champions League, as Barcelona and
Manchester United also won.  Tottenham gave up three goals and had goalkeeper  Heurelho Gomes  sent off in the first 14 minutes in Milan before staging a
second-half rally last night against the defending champion.  “We started out sloppy and we paid the price in the first
half,”  Gareth Bale , who scored all three Tottenham goals, told
ITV. “If we had 11 men on the field, I think it could have been
a different game.”  Lionel Messi  scored both goals to lead Barcelona past
Copenhagen 2-0, while Manchester United defeated Bursaspor 1-0.  Schalke and Lyon also won and Rangers tied Valencia 1-1. FC
Twente and Werder Bremen also drew 1-1, while Panathinaikos and
Rubin Kazan played out a scoreless game.  Inter went ahead after 68 seconds as  Javier Zanetti  fired a
shot past Gomes. The Spurs keeper was sent off seven minutes
later for taking down Jonathan Biabiany in the area and Eto’o
put his penalty kick past replacement  Carlo Cudicini .  Dejan Stankovic  increased the Inter lead in the 14th minute
by finishing off a series of passes and Eto’o made it 4-0 with
his second goal 10 minutes before halftime.  Bale put Tottenham on the scoreboard in the 52nd minute
after making a long run down the left side. He repeated the
effort in the 90th minute and completed his hat trick in
stoppage time.  ‘Had a Go’  “Second half we got at them every opportunity,” Tottenham
manager  Harry Redknapp  said. “We stayed positive and we had a
go.”  The win moves Inter to the top of Group A with seven
points, three more than Tottenham after three of six group
matches.  Twente and Werder Bremen have two points each after their
draw in the Netherlands. Theo Janssen opened the scoring in the
75th minute and Marko Arnautovic tied it for Bremen five minutes
later.  Barcelona moved ahead of Copenhagen to the top of Group D
with its win in Spain. Barcelona has seven points and Copenhagen
has six.  Messi scored after 19 minutes with a shot from about 25
yards (22 meters) into the top corner of the net. The World
Player of the Year clinched the win in second-half stoppage time
from six yards out.  Rubin Kazan remains third in the group with two points
after its draw at Panathinaikos, which has one point.  Manchester Leads  Manchester United took over the top spot in Group C by
beating Bursaspor at Old Trafford.  Nani scored the only goal in the seventh minute when he cut
in from the right side and fired a left-footed shot from about
25 yards into the corner of the net.  “We controlled the whole match, I think they had one shot
with two minutes to go,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told Sky
Sports. “I didn’t think they could score, our defensive
concentration was very good.”  The victory gives United seven points and came on the day
that striker  Wayne Rooney  said he’s asked to leave the club.
Ferguson said two days ago Rooney wouldn’t play in the game.  Rangers sit second in the group after a 1-1 home draw with
Valencia, with Maurice Edu accounting for both goals.  Edu gave Rangers the lead with a header in the 34th minute,
then put the ball into his own net in the opening minute of the
second half.  “We’re definitely disappointed because I thought we
created the more dangerous chances and we were unlucky not to
finish a couple more,” Edu told Sky Sports.  Lyon Stays Top  Lyon beat 10-man Benfica 2-0 to hold on to the top spot in
Group B. Lyon has nine points, three more than second-place
Schalke, which beat Hapoel Tel-Aviv 3-1.  Jimmy Briand and Lisandro Lopez scored the goals for Lyon.
Benfica’s Nicolas Gaitan was sent off for a second yellow card
late in the first half.  Raul Gonzalez  scored twice to lead Schalke over Hapoel. The
Spaniard now has 68 goals in the Champions League to extend his
own scoring record, and also breaks a tie with AC Milan’s
 Filippo Inzaghi  for most goals in all European competitions,
with 70.  The next round of group games will be played Nov. 2 and 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 