-- Investors Buying in Fastest-Growing Economies Find Dividends Most Alluring
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-10-21T09:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/investors-buying-in-fastest-growing-economies-find-dividends-most-alluring.html
Investors pouring record amounts of
money into stocks of the fastest-growing economies are favoring
shares typically bought by the most conservative money managers.  Equities with the highest dividends in the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index  advanced 25 percent this year, beating companies
with the best  earnings  expansion by 12 percentage points, the
most since 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Inversiones Aguas Metropolitanas SA , the Chilean water utility
with an 8 percent yield, returned 32 percent since December and
 Kangwon Land Inc. , the South Korean casino operator that’s
lifted payouts by 30 percent in the past year, rose 54 percent.  Demand for emerging-market dividends is surging as record-
low bond  yields  prompt investors to shift into stocks with the
most reliable returns, Credit Suisse Group AG says. While
developing nations from Brazil to Thailand lifted taxes on
foreign buying of fixed-income assets this month to stem
currency rallies, they’ll probably refrain from targeting equity
inflows, according to Morgan Stanley.  “There is a huge amount of liquidity looking for yield,”
said  Edward Lam , a money manager at Somerset Capital Management
LLP, which oversees $700 million in developing nations,
including the  Somerset Emerging Markets Dividend Growth Fund .
“That’s beginning to drive inflows into higher-yielding
equities in emerging markets.”  Fund Inflows  The MSCI emerging-market index climbed 0.6 percent to
1,108.33 at 10:41 a.m. in London, heading for the biggest gain
in five days.  Developing-nation stock mutual  funds  attracted more than
$60 billion this year as benchmark interest rates near zero
percent in the U.S. and Japan lifted demand for higher-yielding
assets, data compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research
firm EPFR Global show. U.S. stock funds had outflows of $71
billion, according to Investment Company Institute data.  More emerging-market companies are returning cash to
shareholders than ever before. At least 634 equities in the MSCI
gauge paid dividends as of the end of September, including 52
stocks that yielded more than the record-low 5.64 percent
average annual rate on company  bonds , the most since June 2005,
data compiled by Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co. show.  Bond Yields Tumble  The MSCI  emerging-markets index  yields 2.3 percent in
dividends and its payout ratio, a gauge of companies’ ability to
boost dividends, is about 34 percent, or three percentage points
below the 15-year average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and Morgan Stanley. Dividends have accounted for more
than 20 percent of long-term returns from emerging-market
equities,  Jonathan Garner , a Morgan Stanley strategist in Hong
Kong, wrote in an Oct. 8 research report.  Yields on  five-year  U.S. Treasuries have tumbled to 1.1
percent from 2.7 percent at the end of last year as the Federal
Reserve purchased $1.7 trillion of debt securities and Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said additional monetary stimulus may be
warranted to spur growth in the world’s largest economy.  Yields on dollar-denominated bonds of emerging-market
governments dropped to a record 5.2 percent last week,
JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Index shows. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
yields 1.96 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “As investors with money in fixed-income start to re-
allocate some money back into equities, they’re probably going
to look at yield stocks because that’s the area that they
understand,” said  Jahanzeb Naseer , quantitative strategist and
product manager of research for Asia excluding Japan at Credit
Suisse in Hong Kong. “Some of the yields in emerging markets
are a lot more attractive than in developed markets.”  Earnings Growth  Shares of Santiago-based IAM are still inexpensive after
this year’s rally, Somerset’s Lam said.  The holding company whose main asset is a controlling stake
in water utility Aguas Andinas SA has paid  dividends  every year
since its November 2005 initial public offering, and payouts
during the past 12 months amounted to 8 percent of the current
share price, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The dividend yield
is more than double the 2.98 percent yield from Chilean
government  bonds , according to JPMorgan data.  Kangwon Land has an attractive combination of profit growth
and dividends, according to  Jonathan Pines , the London-based
director of emerging markets at Hermes Fund Managers Ltd.  The Gangwon-based company, which runs the only South Korean
casino open to local residents, has a dividend yield of 3.7
percent. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will  climb  59 percent next quarter, according to
the average of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The stock is valued at 11.9 times profit estimates, compared
with 16 times for global  peers , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brazil Triples Tax  Emerging-market policy makers seeking to keep their
 currencies  from appreciating too fast have focused on stemming
foreign purchases of bonds rather than stocks.  Brazil tripled the tax it charges foreigners on investment
in fixed-income securities to 6 percent this month. Thailand
will impose a 15 percent tax on income from domestic bonds
bought by overseas investors, Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij 
said Oct. 12.  Nineteen of 21 major emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg strengthened against the  dollar  the past three months,
making local export industries less competitive. Thailand’s baht
has gained 7.9 percent while the Brazilian real is up 5.4
percent.  “These measures are oriented more at short-term fixed-
income flows,” said Garner, the chief Asia and emerging-market
strategist at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong. “Countries tend to
appreciate investors who take equity risk.”  ‘Quite Nervous’  Emerging-market stocks with the highest dividend yields
have trailed growth stocks by about 16 percentage points on
average during the past six years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Investors would only be piling into dividend stocks if
“they can find stocks that they like that generate decent
yields and yet they really don’t trust the market overall,”
 Geoffrey Dennis , Citigroup Inc.’s New York-based emerging-market
equity strategist, said in an Oct. 15 interview. “If they are
buying dividend yield stocks, it tells people are still quite
nervous about market direction.”  Growth companies are becoming attractive as a rebound in
the global economy boosts sales, according to  Michael Aronstein ,
president of Marketfield Asset Management.  Developing nations will expand 6.4 percent next year as
advanced countries grow 2.2 percent, according to forecasts this
month from the Washington-based International Monetary Fund.
 Brazil ’s economy grew 9 percent in the first quarter, the
fastest pace in 15 years, while China expanded 11.9 percent, the
most since 2007.  Fed Bets  “We’ve actually added some more growth stocks to the
portfolio the last three months,” Aronstein, who oversees more
than $600 million in New York, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Radio on Oct. 14. “The world is in a position now
where at least in parts of it, the economies are really
beginning to pick up.”  This year’s outperformance of high-yielding shares mirrors
2003, the last time the Fed held  interest rates  at an all-time
low. Dividend stocks ended that year with gains more than 20
percentage points bigger than growth equities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The rally this year is being driven in part by “the
perception that the Fed may move toward additional quantitative
stimulus,” or purchases of bonds aimed at reducing borrowing
costs, said Somerset Capital’s Lam. The Fed has held its target
for the overnight lending rate between banks near zero percent
since December 2008.  “Equities look relatively attractive” and may lure
investment away from bonds, said Pines, who helps oversee about
$2.5 billion in emerging-market stocks at Hermes. “There are
quality companies at low price-earnings ratios that will grow
earnings consistently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 