-- Italians Bet $760,000 an Hour on $235 Million Lottery Jackpot
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-10-20T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/italians-betting-750-000-an-hour-pursuing-235-million-lottery-jackpot.html
Italians are betting an average of
541,000 euros ($760,000) an hour in hopes of winning Europe’s
biggest lottery jackpot of 169 million euros, sparking calls by
the Roman Catholic  Church  and consumer groups to cap the prizes.  The odds of choosing the correct combination of six numbers
from a total of 90 in today’s  SuperEnalotto  draw are one in more
than 600 million, and no jackpot has been hit since February.
That hasn’t damped the wagering, which reached 91 million euros
in the past week. The numbers are drawn three times a week.  “I know that winning is extremely difficult, but I still
hope to pick the right combination and I place bets every single
week,” said Nora Villa, 80, a retired journalist. “If I win,
I’d make a long trip abroad and buy designer clothes, but I
would also give away some money to my relatives and a charity.”  The jackpot is spurring  spending  as Italy’s economy
struggles to recover from the worst  recession  in 60 years.
Unemployment tops 8 percent and the government plans 25 billion
euros in deficit cuts in the next two years to trim its budget
shortfall. The surge in lottery betting will improve the
government’s finances as it takes in half the  revenue  from
ticket sales, though the windfall has prompted criticism.  “The state doesn’t care about the fate of gamblers, who
are often lonely people with a serious addiction,” Father
Alberto Urso, head of  Consulta Nazionale Antiusura , a Catholic
Church organization against usury, said in an interview. “About
four out of 10 people coming to us for help are gamblers who got
heavily indebted with games like Superenalotto.”  Betting Figures  In the first eight months of the year, the government’s
take from lottery and gambling totaled 6.2 billion euros,
compared with 6.4 billion euros in the same period of 2009,
according to an Oct. 13 report by the  Economy Ministry . The
government has shown little appetite for capping the payout.  One local administration embraced the game as a possible
way to boost its finances.  Melito , near Naples, has been
spending 15 euros a week since September on trying to guess the
correct six-number combination, using funds destined for the
mayor’s salary. The town plans to use any payout to eliminate
local taxes.  Sisal SpA, which has managed SuperEnalotto since its debut
in 1997, expects the amount customers spend on purchasing the
company’s games this year to grow by a “double-digit” figure,
Chief Executive Officer Emilio Petrone said in a Sept. 16 e-
mailed statement.  “SuperEnalotto’s jackpot should be capped at 100 million,
and be shared with those who pick three, four or five out of the
six lucky numbers,” Carlo Rienzi, chairman of consumer group
 Codacons , said in an interview.  Record Payout  The current SuperEnalotto jackpot exceeds the previous
record payout -- the 147 million euros won in August 2009 by an
unidentified resident of Bagnone, a town in rural Tuscany.  The Euro Millions lottery, a game shared by nine European
Union countries, capped its jackpot at 185 million euros in
March 2009. Spain’s Christmas lottery, known as El Gordo, or the
Fat One, is considered the world’s largest with a total prize
pool of more than $2 billion. In that game there are thousands
of winning tickets, leading to smaller individual payouts.  U.S. multistate-lottery  Powerball  has paid larger jackpots
than SuperEnalotto, though the prize money is taxed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  