-- Mizuho's Asia Fund Buying China's Consumer Staples on Growth, Ejiri Says
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-10-21T08:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/mizuho-s-asia-fund-buying-china-s-consumer-staples-on-growth-ejiri-says.html
Mizuho Asset Management Co.’s Asia
equities fund is investing in China’s consumer and health-care
stocks as the nation boosts domestic demand and improves quality
control, said  Masahiko Ejiri , who helps manage the fund.  The  MHAM Growing Asia Equity Fund  is buying Hong Kong-
listed shares of companies including China Yurun Food Group Ltd.,
a meat supplier, and Sinopharm Group Co., China’s biggest drug
distributor, said Ejiri, a senior fund manager at Mizuho Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $24.6 billion in Tokyo.
China’s efforts to spur domestic demand will benefit consumer
staples, while the nation’s focus on stricter quality regulation
will give large companies an advantage over small ones, he said.  “It’s very clear that the government is moving away from
exports to a consumer-driven economy,” said Ejiri. That means
the government will support low-income groups, and “benefit
would be skewed to staples such as supermarkets, food and
beverages, not luxury brands,” Ejiri said.  China’s domestic demand will grow even after the nation
unexpectedly raised its benchmark lending and deposit rates on
Oct. 19 for the first time since 2007, Ejiri said today.
Consumer prices jumped 3.6 percent in September from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau said in Beijing today. That
matched the median forecast.  “It’s quite usual that when an economy is booming, the
central government would want to do some tightening,” Ejiri
said, adding that the measure may be beneficial in the long term.
“If inflationary pressure goes out of control, domestic
consumption might be subdued.”  Consumer Prices  China’s economy grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter,
according to the bureau, exceeding the 9.5 percent median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  As of yesterday,  China Yurun  has surged 28 percent this
year and trades at 21.7 times estimated earnings, compared with
an average of 15 times for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index , which
has gained 7.7 percent this year. Sinopharm has surged 12
percent for the year and trades at 41.8 times estimated earnings.
 Shandong Weigao Group Medical Polymer Co. , a Chinese medical
device manufacturer, which Ejiri is also buying for the fund,
has soared 62 percent.  China Yurun’s PEG, or price-earnings ratio compared with
next year’s profit growth estimate, is 1.33 and Sinopharm’s PEG
is also 1.33, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares of Chinese
companies has a PEG ratio of 0.86.  ‘Attractive Premium’  “Valuations look expensive but their growth is very
high,” Ejiri said. “It’s an attractive premium.”  A lower PEG ratio, which compares a stock’s price-to-
earnings ratio with projected profit growth, indicates a company
may be cheap relative to its growth prospects.  The MHAM Growing Asia Equity Fund, which has about 3.1
billion yen ($38 million) in assets, has posted a 0.9 percent
return in the six months through September compared with a 1.3
percent return by against its benchmark, according to the fund’s
monthly  statement . Its benchmark is an average of the MSCI China
Index that tracks mainly Hong Kong-traded Chinese shares, the
MSCI India Index, and the MSCI AC South East Asia Index,
according to the statement.  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in an interview with CNN
last month the global financial crisis has shown the need for
China to focus on “structural problems” in its economy,
including taking steps to boost domestic demand.  Encouraging Demand  Separately, China will continue to encourage domestic
demand to ensure stable and rapid economic development, Xinhua
News Agency reported on Oct. 18, citing the communique released
by the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China.  “It’s very bad for China to have a reputation that it
produces cheap but bad quality products compared with other
major exporters,” Ejiri said.  China’s stricter stance on quality control, applied to
consumer and health-care companies, would give an advantage to
larger companies because of their financial capability to build
brands, Ejiri said. Larger companies are also better able to
comply with control requirements, he said.  “I tend to focus on good quality, good brand names,” said
Ejiri. “They tend to be larger companies.”  Revised Standards  China’s State Council last month urged national and local
authorities to take further steps to improve the safety of milk
products. All dairy companies must meet revised standards to
take effect by the end of October, and any producer failing to
do so may lose its operating license, it said.  The move comes after melamine, used to make plastics and
tan leather, was found in infant milk powder and other products
two years ago. At least six babies died and about 300,000 other
people fell ill as a result of contamination.  “Standards are getting higher because Chinese people are
becoming wealthier, and realizing they can buy higher-quality
products if they pay more,” Ejiri said. “If companies can’t
provide that, people will start buying foreign products, and
that could destroy them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 