-- Japanese Bonds Advance on Central Bank Easing Speculation, Stock Declines
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-10-21T07:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/japan-s-bonds-may-rise-on-speculation-central-bank-will-ease-to-weaken-yen.html
Japanese 10-year  bonds  rose for the
first time in three days on speculation the central bank will
ease monetary policy further to help weaken the yen from a 15-
year high against the dollar.  The yield on 20-year notes fell as domestic shares fell and
after an auction of the debt securities attracted greater demand
than the average of the past 10 sales. Bonds also gained as
economists said U.S. reports today will show continuing claims
for jobless benefits increased, giving the Federal Reserve more
reason to increase debt purchases.  “There is speculation bold quantitative easing steps in
the U.S. will lead to further weakening of the dollar against
the yen, leaving Japan little choice but to ease policy
further,” said  Naomi Hasegawa , a senior debt strategist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The
slump in stocks supports the bond market.”  The  yield  on the 10-year bonds lost one basis point to 0.88
percent as of 3:40 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 0.8 percent
security due September 2020 added 0.091 yen to 99.271. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The 20-year yield dipped half a basis point to 1.755
percent. Ten-year bond futures for December delivery declined
0.04 to 143.6 on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The yen climbed to as high as 80.85 per dollar yesterday,
the strongest level since April 1995. The  Topix  index of
Japanese shares sank 0.4 percent today, extending yesterday’s
1.2 percent slide.  The lowest-accepted price for 20-year bonds at the Ministry
of Finance’s 1.1 trillion yen ($13.6 billion) sale today was
100.4, surpassing the 100.3 estimated by traders in a Bloomberg
News survey. Investors bid for 4.41 times the amount on offer,
compared with the average of 3.62 in the previous 10 auctions.  ‘Strong’ Auction  “The result of the auction is strong,” said  Takafumi Yamawaki , chief rates strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Tokyo.  U.S. continuing jobless claims  gained  to 4.42 million in
the week to Oct. 9 from 4.40 million, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the
Labor Department releases the data today.  A stronger yen reduces the value of overseas sales at
Japanese companies when repatriated. The U.S. is Japan’s second-
biggest export market after China by the value of products
shipped during the first half of this year,  according  to Japan’s
Ministry of Finance.  The ministry said today its all-industry activity gauge
fell 0.4 percent in August, the first decline since March.  Life Insurers  Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa today said the
central bank is watching the effect of the strong yen on the
economy closely. Deputy Governor  Kiyohiko Nishimura  said
yesterday the stronger yen is hurting business confidence and
that the currency’s appreciation may lower consumer prices.  Deflation, or a general drop in prices, enhances the
purchasing power of the fixed payments from debt.  The BOJ on Oct. 5 cut its key interest rate to a range of
zero to 0.1 percent and announced the creation of the 5 trillion
yen fund to buy assets including government debt and exchange-
traded funds.  Nippon Life Insurance Co., the domestic market leader, said
it may increase holdings of foreign bonds to supplement returns
on yen-denominated debt.  Low yields make it “tough to totally depend on domestic
bonds," said Yosuke Matsunaga, general manager of the Osaka-
based company’s finance and investment planning departments.  Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co., the nation’s No. 2 life
insurer, said last week it plans to reduce investment in
domestic stocks and mainly invest in Japanese government bonds,
while smaller rival Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. said two
days ago it may raise foreign bond investments by 200 billion
yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  