-- Justice Clarence Thomas's Wife Calls Anita Hill, Offers Her `Olive Branch'
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-10-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/justice-clarence-thomas-s-wife-calls-anita-hill-to-offer-an-olive-branch-.html
Virginia Thomas , the wife of Justice
 Clarence Thomas , said she recently called  Anita Hill , whose
sexual harassment allegations almost derailed his 1991  U.S.
Supreme Court  nomination.  ABC News  reported  that Thomas left a voice mail earlier
this month seeking an apology from Hill, now a professor at
 Brandeis University  in Waltham, Massachusetts.  In a statement released yesterday by Brandeis, Hill called
the message “inappropriate.”  “I have no intention of apologizing because I testified
truthfully about my experience and I stand by that testimony,”
she said.  Hill told ABC that at first she thought the call was a
hoax. She contacted campus police, who turned the information
over to the FBI, said Charles Radin, a university spokesman.  Virginia Thomas said in a written statement that she called
Hill at her office “extending an olive branch to her after all
these years, in hopes that we could ultimately get passed (sic)
what happened so long ago.”  Hill’s allegations against Clarence Thomas dominated his
confirmation hearings. She accused Thomas of making lewd
overtures while she worked for him at the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission. The Senate confirmed Thomas by a 52-48
vote.  In the voice-mail message, Virginia Thomas suggested that
Hill should pray about the situation, ABC reported.  ‘Consider an Apology’  “I would love you to consider an apology sometime and some
full explanation of why you did what you did with my husband,”
Thomas said, according to ABC. “So give it some thought and
certainly pray about this and come to understand why you did
what you did. OK. Have a good day.”  Thomas said in her statement that her offer to reconcile
with Hill “still stands.”  “I would be very happy to meet and talk with her if she
would be willing to do the same,” said Thomas, the founder of
 Liberty Central,  a nonprofit group with links to the Tea Party
movement.  Clarence Thomas was a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the D.C. Circuit when President George H.W. Bush selected
him for the high court.  In her Senate testimony, Hill said Thomas had discussed
pornographic films and talked about sex.  Thomas has repeatedly denied Hill’s allegations. He told
senators that the hearing had become a “high-tech lynching for
uppity blacks who in any way deign to think for themselves.” In
his 2007 memoir, Thomas wrote that Hill was a “mediocre”
employee who lied under oath.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 