-- Krugman Says China Faces `Trade Conflict' With U.S. as G-20 Meeting Looms
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-10-20T16:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/krugman-says-china-faces-trade-conflict-with-u-s-as-g-20-meeting-looms.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  said China is headed for a “trade conflict” with the
U.S. and other western countries as tensions rise about how to
rebalance the global economy.  “What China is doing is functionally equivalent to having
large export subsidies and large import tariffs,” Krugman, 57,
said in a speech in the Free University in Berlin today. “If it
were doing that in the normal way, it would automatically be
subject to large countervailing duties. And I think that’s going
to happen at the rate we’re going.”  China is facing mounting pressure from major trading
partners for a stronger yuan, with U.S. and European officials
arguing that the currency is undervalued. Some executives are
also complaining about Chinese trade barriers. U.S. steelmakers,
working to block Chinese investments such as a planned venture
by Anshan Iron & Steel Group in Mississippi, on Oct. 14 produced
a report saying companies in China get illegal subsidies.  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers meet in
South Korea on Oct. 22-23 for a further round of talks on how to
smooth trade flows and keep the global recovery on track. Some
countries say that the U.S. also carries some responsibility,
with the shift toward easier monetary policy blamed for
propelling capital into emerging markets.  Trade War?  South Africa Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said Oct. 19
there is a “serious danger of competitive devaluations” and “if
we continue on this road, it will result in a trade war.”  Krugman, a Princeton University professor, also warned that
Europe’s sovereign  debt  crisis, which threatened to undermine
the euro earlier this year, is not over.  “Although the markets seem to have relaxed a little bit, I
still don’t see how the whole Greek thing is going to work,” he
said. “And  Ireland  is pretty dicey too.”  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
government bonds over German equivalents has dropped 59 basis
points since hitting a closing record of 449 basis points on
Sept. 28. The Greek spread was at 659 basis points. It touched a
closing record of 965 points on May 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 