-- Kuwait Energy, TPAO, KazMunaiGaz Get Iraq Gas Awards
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 2010-10-20T16:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/kuwait-energy-tpao-kazmunaigaz-win-iraqi-gasfield-contracts-in-auction.html
Kuwait Energy Co., Turkiye
Petrolleri AO and  KazMunaiGaz National Co. , Kazakhstan’s state
fuel producer, won rights to develop three Iraqi natural-gas
areas as the country seeks supplies for power plants and export.  Iraq today awarded rights to develop Akkas, Mansouriya and
Siba, which together hold 11 trillion cubic feet of fuel, Oil
Minister  Hussain al-Shahristani  said at an auction in Baghdad.
Iraq will sign preliminary agreements with the winners in the
next few days and send the contracts to parliament for final
approval, he said.  The Persian Gulf state, reliant on oil for most of its
income, is seeking foreign investors after years of conflict and
sanctions. The licensing round is the  third  since the U.S.-led
invasion that toppled President  Saddam Hussein  in 2003. Iraq won
pledges from oil producers including  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and OAO
Lukoil to boost the country’s total crude output to 12 million
barrels a day after two licensing rounds last year.  “Iraq is already committed to oil developments that will
yield associated gas in amounts that are multiples of what was
agreed to today,” said  Tariq Shafiq , an adviser with London-
based Petrolog & Associates and a former Oil Ministry official.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , which won contracts to develop Iraqi
crude deposits, is working to capture and use about 700 million
cubic feet of gas that’s currently being burnt at oil fields in
the country’s south.  Shell Gas Exports  Iraq’s $12.5 billion gas production venture with Shell may
be able to start exporting the fuel by 2015 when output from the
country’s southern fields meet domestic demand,  Ali al-Dabbagh ,
a government spokesman, said in June. The country, which pumps
about 2.3 million barrels of oil a day, produces about 1.1
billion cubic feet of associated gas daily.  Today’s auction “comes at a time when there’s already a
lot of gas being burned,” according to Shafiq, who said he’s
against the auction process. Iraq’s government is transitional
after elections in March failed to yield a clear winner.  KazMunaiGaz and Korea Gas, or Kogas, won rights to develop
Akkas, the largest deposit offered today, the oil ministry said
in a  statement . The partners, with equal stakes in the bidding
group, agreed to produce 400 million standard cubic feet of gas
a day at a price of $5.50 per barrel of oil equivalent.  Kuwait Energy, TPAO  Turkey’s state oil company, known as TPAO, bid on all three
fields and won two, while  Korea Gas Corp.  participated in two of
the winning rbids. A group including Kuwait Energy, TPAO and
Kogas won the rights to develop the Mansouriya area, pledging to
produce 320 million standard cubic feet of gas a day for $7 per
barrel of oil equivalent produced, the maximum the government
would agree to pay, the oil ministry said.  Kuwait Energy and TPAO won the bidding for the Siba field,
agreeing to produce 100 million standard cubic feet of gas a day
at a price of $7.50 per barrel of oil equivalent.  Akkas, discovered in the western Anbar province in 1998,
holds 5.6 trillion cubic feet of gas and has six wells, al-
Shahristani said in May. Mansouriya, discovered in the eastern
Diyala district in 1979, potentially holds 4.5 trillion cubic
feet of gas and has four wells, while Siba, found in 1968 in
Basra, has 1.1 trillion cubic feet of gas and three wells, he
said. Separately, the U.S.  Energy Information Administration 
estimates the reserves for the areas at 7.6 trillion cubic feet.  Eni Spa  and  Total SA , the largest oil companies in Italy
and France, were among 13 companies that qualified to bid for
the three natural gas areas, the oil ministry said. Total
participated in one losing offer for the Akkas deposit.  Failed Bids  Other potential bidders included  Edison SpA , whose joint
bid with Kogas and TPAO for the Akkas field was rejected by the
government as too low during the first round of bidding last
year.  Iraq awarded a dozen service contracts to international oil
companies including Exxon and Shell as it aims to more than
double its current crude output of 2.3 million barrels a day.  The 45 companies that bid last year were invited to bid for
the three gas fields, where Iraq wants to raise production four-
fold. Today’s auction was delayed twice from Sept. 1. Some of
the fields on offer weren’t bid on in the auctions last year.  Other companies qualified to bid today included Itochu
Corp., Oil & Natural Gas Corp.,  Statoil ASA , Mitsubishi Corp.,
and TNK-BP, the ministry said.  Iraq may earn $4.2 trillion in revenue from oil fields
being developed by international companies after rights for
production from the deposits were auctioned last year, al-
Shahristani said today.  Domestic Needs  The oilfields, whose development rights were assigned after
two bidding rounds, will produce 60 billion barrels of oil, he
said. The Iraqi government will get 99 percent of the revenue
from those deposits, al-Shahristani said today.  Iraq intends to export 50 percent of the gas produced in
the three gas fields, the amount in excess of its domestic
needs, Abdul Mahdy al-Ameedi, deputy director general at Iraq’s
Petroleum Contracts and Licensing Directorate, said on Aug. 2.  Akkas and Mansouriya were among the fields offered in
bidding last year. No investors bid for Mansouriya then, and the
ministry rejected the sole offer for Akkas made by the Edison-
led group of five companies. The ministry initially included
Siba in the second round then withdrew it.  Iraq will present a draft agreement to the cabinet for a
gas joint venture with Shell by the end of the year, al-
Shahristani told reporters in Vienna on Oct. 14. The country is
also a possible source of gas for the planned Nabucco pipeline
project, which aims to reduce Europe’s dependence on Russian
fuel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zahraa Alkhalisi  in Dubai at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  