-- Namibia's Central Bank Cuts Benchmark Rate by Quarter Point as Prices Ease
-- B y   C h a m w e   K a i r a
-- 2010-10-20T11:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/namibia-s-central-bank-says-it-reduces-benchmark-interest-rate-to-6-75-.html
Namibia’s  central bank cut its
benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to
6.75 percent, the first reduction in eight meetings, as the
inflation rate remained close to a five-year low.  Annual inflation is “very low” and the southern African
country’s economy needs a “boost”,  Bank of Namibia  Governor
 Ipumbu Shiimi  told reporters today in the capital, Windhoek. The
reduction is the first since June last year and follows a cut in
South Africa’s repo rate to 6 percent on Sept. 9.  “The improved inflation outlook has created space for a
slightly more accommodative monetary stance, so as to provide
additional stimulus to the economy, which remains vulnerable to
the uncertain global environment,” he said.  Inflation in Namibia, the world’s biggest miner of offshore
diamonds, was little changed at 3.7 percent in September,
compared with 3.6 percent a month earlier, the slowest pace
since  December 2005 , according to data from the Central
Statistics Bureau. A stronger Namibian dollar, which is pegged
to South Africa’s rand, has helped contain import costs. The
rand has strengthened 37 percent against the dollar since the
start of 2009.  Economic growth should gain momentum in the final months of
this year because of a recovery in mining output from last
year’s production, Shiimi said. The central bank kept its
forecast for the economy to expand by about 4 percent in 2010
after a 0.8 percent contraction last year, he said.  ‘Room to Cut’  Namibia’s economy may grow 4.4 percent this year, the
International Monetary Fund said on Aug. 25. The central bank
has room to reduce interest rates to lift growth given lower
borrowing costs in neighbor South Africa, the IMF said.  Namibia’s central bank generally follows monetary policy
set by the South African Reserve Bank. Africa’s biggest economy
has reduced its benchmark rate eight times since December 2008.  Namibia’s foreign exchange reserves declined 2.1 percent in
September to 11.6 billion Namibian dollars ($1.67 billion)
because of lower transfers from the Southern African Customs
Union and a stronger currency, Shiimi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chamwe Kaira  in Windhoek via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 