-- Nanya Reports Unexpected Loss After Chip Prices Fall
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2010-10-20T09:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/nanya-technology-posts-unexpected-loss-as-computer-memory-chip-prices-fall.html
Nanya Technology Corp.  posted an
unexpected third consecutive quarterly loss as slowing computer
demand drove down prices, prompting Taiwan’s second-largest
memory-chip maker to cut its projection for full-year shipments.  The third-quarter  net loss  was NT$2.27 billion ($73.5
million), compared with NT$3.9 billion a year earlier, the
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a statement today. The
average of analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was for
profit of NT$970 million.  Inotera Memories Inc. , Nanya’s venture
with  Micron Technology Inc. , posted a loss of NT$2.6 billion.  Prices of memory chips, used to help computers run multiple
programs simultaneously, dropped an average 15 percent in the
quarter from the preceding three-month period because of lower-
than-expected global demand for computers, Nanya said. Slowing
demand and oversupply could lead prices lower this quarter,
according to industry researcher DRAMeXchange.  “With the coming slow season and output increase from DRAM
vendors, over-supply conditions will be serious,” DRAMeXchange
wrote in an Oct. 15  statement . Chip prices will likely reach
“bottom” at the end of the first quarter or early second
quarter, according to the statement.  Full-Year Shipments  Nanya’s full-year shipments, measured in bits, will climb
25 percent this year, compared with an earlier estimate of 35
percent, the company said in a statement. Third-quarter sales
climbed 30 percent from a year earlier to NT$14.9 billion.  Costs for research and development more than doubled from a
year earlier to NT$1.8 billion after Nanya hired more engineers
and spent money on testing its latest 42-nanometer production
process, Vice President  Pai Pei-lin  said at a briefing today.  Nanya  climbed 4.8 percent to close at NT$18.75 in Taipei
trading before the earnings announcement. The stock has declined
43 percent this year compared with a 0.8 percent drop for the
benchmark Taiex index.  Inotera had so-called idle costs of NT$3.5 billion for the
quarter as it continues to switch its factories to a new
technology, President  Charles Kau  said today. Shipments,
measured in bits, will climb as much as 80 percent this quarter
from the prior period, after it completes the production
transition this month, Inotera said in a statement.  Powerchip Technology Corp. , Taiwan’s largest memory-chip
maker, on Oct. 18 reported third-quarter net income of NT$1.94
billion, missing the NT$3.3 billion average of three analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The chipmaker priced an offering of 600 million new shares
at NT$16.50 each, Nanya said in an Oct. 15 filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 