-- Nestle's Pet Food, Nespresso Pods Help Defy Price Squeeze
-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 2010-10-21T07:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/nestle-s-nespresso-website-door-to-door-sales-help-defy-pricing-squeeze.html
Nestle SA ’s direct sales of
Nespresso coffee capsules and Purina pet food have given the
world’s largest foodmaker an edge in pricing.  The maker of KitKat chocolate will probably say tomorrow
that pricing added 1.5 percentage points to sales growth in the
first nine months of 2010, the same as in the first half,
according to the median  estimate  of 10 analysts.  By selling through Nespresso’s website and speciality
retailers such as pet stores, Nestle faces less pressure on
prices from supermarkets. About a third of revenue comes from
those sources, compared with 15 percent for  Groupe Danone SA  and
11 percent for  Unilever,  ING analysts estimate. Nestle has 7,000
saleswomen who peddle goods door-to-door in Brazilian slums and
uses carts to sell ice cream in the Philippines.  “Nestle stands out in pricing power,” said  Marco Gulpers ,
an analyst at ING Wholesale Banking who has a “buy”
 recommendation  on Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle. “That also
highlights why Nestle is much less volatile compared to Danone
or Unilever.”  Unilever, the maker of Ben & Jerry’s ice cream and Knorr
soup, has said it doesn’t expect prices to increase until the
fourth quarter.  Danone’s  pricing rose 0.6 percent in the third
quarter, counter to analysts’ predictions of a decline and the
first growth in more than a year. Nestle has reported higher
pricing each year for the past decade.  Paul Matthews , a spokesman for Unilever, and  Nina Backes , a
spokeswoman for Nestle, declined to comment on the ING
estimates. Sabrina Schneider, a spokeswoman for Danone, didn’t
respond to requests for comment.  U.S. Strategy  Nestle, Europe’s second-largest company by market value, is
holding its nine-month sales press conference outside of
Switzerland for the first time and will highlight its U.S.
strategy. Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke , Chief Financial
Officer  Jim Singh , as well as the heads of Nestle USA, Nestle’s
U.S. Nutrition unit, Purina and North America bottled water,
will attend the New York briefing.  The company gets about a  third  of its sales from the
Americas, compared with about 22 percent from Europe, where
growth has been slower to recover from the global recession.
Nestle bought Kraft Food Inc.’s frozen-pizza business this year
to bolster its share of the U.S. food market and started selling
its Dolce Gusto coffee systems this month at Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., the nation’s biggest retailer.  Cash for Investment  The Swiss company is $28.3 billion richer after selling a
stake in Alcon Inc. to Novartis AG. Nestle said in August it
will “substantially” reduce net debt and Singh said in June
the company prefers to use cash to invest in its own business or
make acquisitions rather than buying back shares.  Nestle may say so-called organic sales, which exclude
 acquisitions  and disposals, rose 5.6 percent in the third
quarter, according to the median estimate, compared with 6.1
percent growth in the first six months of the year.  Danone, the world’s largest yogurt maker, said today that
third-quarter revenue excluding acquisitions and currency shifts
increased 6.9 percent, broadly maintaining the first half’s pace
and beating analysts’ estimates. Lower pricing cut 1.7
percentage points from nine-month sales.  Unilever’s food and beverage comparable sales probably rose
3.4 percent in the third quarter, according to an estimate by
 Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at Liberum Capital. The company, which
is based in London and Rotterdam, is scheduled to report
earnings on Nov. 4.  ‘Affordable Treats’  Analysts expect Nestle to announce a “robust operating
performance in spite of the challenging macro conditions,”
wrote  Nic Sochovsky , an analyst at Unicredit in London. He rates
the shares “buy,” citing the company’s pricing “discipline.”  Nestle shares have  advanced  14 percent in the past year,
compared with a 5.2 percent increase for Paris-based Danone and
a 1.4 percent gain for Unilever.  The Swiss company’s ability to charge more is helped by its
strength in products whose sales tend to resist price increases,
according to  David Hayes , an analyst at Nomura. Nestle ranks as
the world’s biggest maker of coffee, bottled water, shelf-stable
milk, baby formula, pet food and frozen pizza.  Shoppers will cut spending on their family before turning
to cheaper pet-food brands, Bulcke has said.  “Nestle benefits compared to its peers on a number of
counts -- much of its portfolio is in affordable treats or
necessities which are resistant to downtrading,” said Jon Cox,
an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 