-- N.Y. Fed Backing Boosts Pimco Push For Mortgage Buybacks
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-20T14:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/new-york-fed-adds-weight-to-mortgage-bond-investors-seeking-loan-relief.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
joined with the biggest bond investors in the U.S. in seeking to
force Bank of America Corp. to buy back bad home loans packaged
into securities as the battle over who will bear  mortgage  losses
intensifies.  The institution joined a group including Pacific Investment
Management Co.,  BlackRock Inc.  and Freddie Mac in a  letter  to
the lender and to  Bank of New York  Mellon Corp., trustee for $47
billion of bonds created by Bank of America’s Countrywide
Financial Corp. unit, people familiar with the matter said.
Countrywide failed to service loans properly, law firm Gibbs &
Bruns LLP said in a statement that didn’t name the firms.  The action follows foreclosure freezes that drove bank
stocks lower this month as shareholders reconsidered the risks
of home loans sold before the housing  crash . The New York Fed
acquired mortgage debt through its 2008 rescues of Bear Stearns
Cos. and American International Group Inc., and its
participation may raise the odds of prevailing against Bank of
America, said  Scott Buchta  of Braver Stern Securities LLC.  “Individual investors have been trying for years to get
these big banks to buy back loans at par, and haven’t had a lot
of luck,” said Buchta, head of investment strategy for the New
York-based securities firm. The New York Fed “in your corner,
that adds weight and might give you a better chance for
success.”  Normal Channels  At the same time, the letter shows the regulator must still
“go through the normal channels,” he said.  Freddie Mac  competitor Fannie Mae joined a separate, larger
consortium of bondholders collaborating through a different
Texas lawyer, people familiar with matter said last month. In
July, the regulator for both government-controlled mortgage
companies issued 64 subpoenas seeking information on loans
backing securities they bought.  Investors are stepping up efforts to recoup losses on
mortgage bonds, which plummeted in value amid the worst slump in
home  prices  since the 1930s. Last month, BNY Mellon declined to
investigate mortgage files in response to a demand from the
bondholder group represented by Gibbs & Bruns, which has since
expanded. Countrywide’s servicing failures may open the door for
investors to seek repurchases by bypassing the trustee, said
 Kathy Patrick , their lawyer.  “We now are in a position where we have to start a clock
ticking,” Patrick said in a telephone interview.  If the issues aren’t fixed within 60 days, BNY Mellon
should declare Countrywide, which Bank of America bought in
2008, in default on its servicing contracts, Patrick said.  What’s Next  In its role as a mortgage seller, Countrywide should face
more repurchase demands no matter what, Patrick said. The
requests may come directly from bondholders or from the loan
servicing arm of Countrywide itself or from Bank of New York,
which acts as trustee of the bonds.  Patrick represents investors who own at least 25 percent of
so-called voting rights in the deals and stand to recover “many
billions of dollars,” she said.  MetLife Inc. , the biggest U.S. life insurer; Western Asset
Management Co., the biggest unit of  Legg Mason  Inc.; BlackRock,
the world’s largest money manager; and Pimco, which runs the
biggest bond fund, are all part of the group Gibbs & Bruns
represents, the people said. TCW Group Inc., the manager of $110
billion in assets, expects to join, they said.  Faulty Appraisals  The investors are among those who want lenders to buy back
home mortgages that they say were marketed using misstatements
about their quality. One problem can be faulty appraisals that
overvalued homes. That matter is separate from an investigation
by 50 state attorneys general into whether loan servicers may
have improperly foreclosed on homes.  While failing to include documents needed for foreclosures
violates so-called representations and warranties by mortgage
sellers, it probably won’t be the most common issue discovered
if investors can access loan files, Isaac Gradman, a San
Francisco-based  consultant , said yesterday.  “It’s surprising that it took this foreclosure crisis to
bring the issue to people’s attention but people are starting to
get it,” said Gradman, formerly a lawyer at Howard Rice
Nemerovski Canady Falk & Rabkin. He represented mortgage insurer
PMI Group Inc. in a settled lawsuit over similar issues against
General Electric Co. and its defunct mortgage unit.  Countrywide’s Obligations  Countrywide hasn’t met its contractual obligations as a
servicer because it hasn’t asked for loan repurchases, is
failing to keep adequate records, and is taking too long with
foreclosures, Patrick said. The delays stem from missing
documents, process mistakes and insufficient staffing to
evaluate borrowers seeking loan modifications, she said.  If Countrywide doesn’t correct the servicing problems
within a few months, her clients could have the right to pursue
legal action against Bank of America, Bank of New York or both,
she said. “None of the bondholders are opposed to modifications
for deserving borrowers, but you’ve got to get it done” in a
timely fashion, she added.  “The letter states a demand directed to Countrywide to
cure the defaults,” said  Kevin Heine , a spokesman for BNY
Mellon. “It does not ask BNY Mellon to take any action. BNY
Mellon will continue to perform its duties as trustee.”  Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America will
“defend our shareholders” by disputing any unjustified demands
it buy back defective mortgages, Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said yesterday.  BofA’s Response  Most claims “don’t have the defects that people allege,”
Moynihan said on Bloomberg Television, referring to so-called
put-backs, in which guarantors or investors in mortgage-backed
securities ask for the return of bad loans. “We end up
restoring them, and they go back in the pools.”  Jeffrey V. Smith, a spokesman for the New York Fed,
declined to comment.  In August,  Jack Gutt , another spokesman, said the
institution was involved in “multiple efforts related to
exercising our rights as investors,” which would “support our
primary goal of maximizing the value of these portfolios on
behalf of the American taxpayer.”  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco;  Brian Beades , a spokesman for New York-
based BlackRock; and Peter Viles, a spokesman for Los Angeles-
based TCW, declined to comment.  John Calagna , a spokesman for
New York-based MetLife, also declined to comment.  Mary Athridge ,
a spokeswoman for Baltimore-based Legg Mason, declined to
comment.  Michael Cosgrove , a spokesman for McLean, Virginia-
based Freddie Mac, didn’t immediately return messages today.  Reviewing Letter  “We continue to review and assess the letter, and have a
number of question about its content, including whether these
investors have standing to bring these claims,” Bank of America
Chief Financial Officer  Charles H. Noski  said yesterday on a
conference call with analysts. “We continue to believe the
servicer is in compliance with the servicing obligations.”  The letter, covering 115 separate mortgage securitizations,
with $105 billion in original balances, came from “eight
investors purportedly owning interests in these transactions,”
Noski said.  Banks’ costs from repurchasing mortgages in securities
without government backing may total as much as $179.2 billion,
Compass Point Research and Trading LLC analyst  Chris Gamaitoni 
estimated in August, including expenses related to lawsuits
against bond underwriters.  JPMorgan’s Cost Estimate  JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said in an Oct. 15 report the
costs may reach $80 billion, reduced in part by the difficulty
investors have getting trustees to act and a typical requirement
that misstatements about loan quality must be “material.”  Losses on the mortgages packaged into bonds come amid
“persistently high  unemployment  and other economic trends,
diminishing the likelihood that any loan defect, should one
exist at all, was the cause of the loan’s default,” Noski said.  The initiative covered by the letter sent to Bank of
America and BNY Mellon yesterday is separate from the effort
coordinated through Dallas lawyer Talcott Franklin, Patrick
said. That firm is coordinating action for a larger group of
mortgage-bond investors holding more than $500 billion.  Participants in that so-called RMBS Investor Clearing House
include BlackRock, Pimco, Fortress Investment Group LLC, Fannie
Mae and Federal Home Loan Banks, people familiar with the matter
said last month. MetLife isn’t part of that group, Calagna said.  Separate Effort  Membership in the clearing house has risen to 110 from 65,
during the last two weeks, said  Bill Frey , head of Greenwich,
Connecticut-based securities firm Greenwich Financial Services
LLC. Frey this month lost a lawsuit against BofA seeking to
force the bank to purchase any modified loans out of bonds.  The New York Fed is “in a unique, potentially sticky
position,” said  Joseph Mason , a professor of finance at
Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge.  “The Fed does have this authority to work with
confidential consumer data,” he said. “But I think to use that
authority to then bring suit while wearing their other hat here
as a lender of last resort and bailout authority would be
untoward at best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  