-- New Reclamation Petitioned by Group Over Zimbabwe Diamond Mine `Clean-Up'
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2010-10-20T16:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/new-reclamation-petitioned-by-group-over-zimbabwe-diamond-mine-clean-up-.html
A South African advocacy group
petitioned New Reclamation Group Ltd. to provide additional
information about the relocation of communities on  Zimbabwe ’s
Marange diamond fields and a “clean-up” of the area.  Southern African Resource Watch  submitted the request to
Johannesburg-based New Reclamation under South Africa’s
Promotion of Access to Information Act. Three Marange-community
members joined the petition, the Johannesburg-based group said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Reclamation’s Mbada unit, a 50:50 venture with state-owned
Marange Resources, mines diamonds in Marange. In 2008, more than
200 people were killed as the army and police cleared as many as
20,000 illegal miners from the area,  Human Rights Watch , the New
York-based advocacy group, said last year. Zimbabwe’s police
force says it hasn’t received reports of atrocities.  Rapaport Group’s  RapNet Diamond Trading Network, the
world’s biggest, in November banned its members from dealing in
gems from Marange because of reports of “severe” human rights
violations in the area.  SARW asked for documents supporting assurances made by New
Reclamation to shareholder  Old Mutual Plc  that “its activities
in Zimbabwe are to the benefit of all Zimbabweans and part of a
clean-up operation of the Marange diamond fields,” the group
said. SARW is also seeking documents related to any compensation
made to communities relocated from Marange, it said.  Accountability  Reclamation Chief Executive Officer  Michael Movsas  wasn’t
available when Bloomberg called his Johannesburg office today
seeking comment. Lynn Bolin, a spokeswoman for Old Mutual
Investment Group SA, couldn’t immediately comment when Bloomberg
called her after the close of business today.  Zimbabwe’s Mines Minister  Obert Mpofu  said there was no
lack of accountability at the Marange diamond fields.  “The communities affected by diamond mining in Zimbabwe are
being negotiated with openly and transparently in a process that
is monitored by government,” Mpofu said today by phone from
Harare, the Zimbabwean capital. Diamonds mined in the country
are “not dirty,” he said.  Mbada has mined more than 2 million carats since it began
operations in December, according to Reclamation’s  website .
Zimbabwe will retain about 62 percent of the revenue derived
from diamond sales in the form of royalties, resource-depletion
fees, taxes and the government’s 50 percent share in Mbada,
according to the site.  ‘War Chest’  “There is a widespread belief that the Marange diamonds are
funding a ZANU-PF election war chest -- as well as providing
Zimbabwe’s old elite with a new source of illicit wealth,”
Nicole Fritz, director of the Southern African Litigation
Centre, said in the joint SARW statement. “New Reclamation Group
can help end the speculation by providing us with this
information.”  Mpofu said the allegations that diamond sales are funding
the ruling Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front’s
election campaign are “completely false.”  The SALC provided assistance on the petition to SARW, which
says it monitors and advocate for sustainable development where
natural resources are extracted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Latham  in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 