-- Jackson May Move $500 Million `Hobbit' Film From New Zealand Amid Dispute
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2010-10-21T01:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/new-zealand-may-lose-500-million-hobbit-filming-director-jackson-says.html
The backers of “The Hobbit” movie
may move the $500 million production out of New Zealand after an
actors’ union dispute undermined confidence in the country’s
film industry, according to the movie’s director.  Warner Bros Productions Ltd. executives will visit New
Zealand next week and plan to move the production offshore,
according to a statement from  Peter Jackson . New Zealand Actors’
Equity, backed by Australia-based Media, Entertainment and Arts
Alliance, recommended people delay accepting work on the two-
film prequel to the “Lord of the Rings” trilogy until
producers offer union contracts.  New Zealand’s film industry boomed after Jackson made the
Lord of the Rings films, and was worth NZ$2.8 billion ($2.1
billion) in 2009, according to a  Statistics New Zealand  report.
Hiring film crew and equipment added about NZ$350 million to the
economy in a three-year period to March 2002, according to a
report by the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research.  “It appears we now cannot make films in our own country,
even when substantial financing is available,” said Jackson in
the statement. “Seemingly overnight, NZ Actors Equity shredded
the reputation of a burgeoning industry, which has been over
forty years in the making.”  The union advised Warner Bros on Oct. 17 that it asked the
Screen Actors Guild to lift the workers’ boycott, according to a
statement today from the New Zealand Council of Trade Unions.
The union is seeking agreement on basic terms and conditions
such as hours and breaks, according to the statement.  Warner Decision  Jackson will try to keep the filming of “The Hobbit” in
New Zealand, he said in the statement. The decision “ultimately
belongs” to Warner Bros, he said.  New Zealand Prime Minister  John Key  said the government may
meet with Warner Bros when the executives visit, according to
 stuff.co.nz . He blamed the potential location shift on the
actors’ unions, the website reported.  “It’s a dreadful situation and it’s going to take a bit of
work even to get future productions into good shape,”  Gerry Brownlee , the minister for economic development, told Television
New Zealand this morning.  The Rings trilogy, based on J.R.R. Tolkien’s fantasy epic,
generated $2.9 billion in worldwide box-office receipts and
another $3 billion from DVDs, merchandise and other sources.  Production of “The Hobbit” has suffered a number of
delays including the withdrawal of director Guillermo del Toro
in May, and a fire at Wellington’s Portsmouth Miniatures Studio,
where parts of the film were to be shot.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Chris Bourke  at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  