-- New York Times Surges After Investor Group Said it May Buy Boston Globe
-- B y   P e t e r   E l s t r o m   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-10-21T01:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/new-york-times-surges-10-on-report-investor-group-may-buy-boston-globe.html
New York Times Co.  surged as much as
10 percent in late trading after an investor group said it may
make an offer to acquire the company’s Boston Globe.  Times Co. rose 38 cents to $8.01 at 6:11 p.m. in extended
trading after earlier touching $8.42. The shares  fell  16 cents
to $7.63 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  A group called the 2100 Trust said in an e-mailed statement
that it is organizing community investors to submit a letter of
intent to purchase the newspaper and related assets. “This will
require the significant long-term investment that we intend to
make,” the group said.  John Boit , a spokesman for 2100 Trust, said the group was
founded by  Aaron Kushner , a Wellesley, Massachusetts-based owner
of Marian Heath Greeting Cards. Boit, in an interview, declined
to name any other investors, the price or timing of any bid.  “We do not comment on rumors of acquisitions or
divestures,”  Robert Christie , a spokesman for New York-based
Times Co., said in a statement. “The Boston Globe is an
important part of The New York Times Company. The Globe has made
excellent progress and is on solid financial footing.”  Times Co. last year halted a potential sale of the Globe
after its unions agreed to $20 million in cost cuts. The Globe
was on track to lose $85 million last year on an operating
basis, Times Co. said previously.  Yesterday, New York Times reported third-quarter sales that
fell short of analysts’ estimates as advertising and circulation
revenue declined. Earnings topped estimates after pension
expenses declined.  Sales slid 2.7 percent to $554.3 million, the New York-
based company said. Analysts had projected $558.8 million on
average, according to a Bloomberg survey. The net loss shrank to
$4.26 million, or 3 cents a share, from $35.6 million, or 25
cents, a year earlier. Excluding some items, profit of 7 cents a
share exceeded the 5 cents projected by analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Elstrom  in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  