-- Nishimura Says Yen's Gains May Pressure Company Sentiment, Consumer Prices
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-10-20T06:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/nishimura-says-yen-s-gains-may-pressure-company-sentiment-consumer-prices.html
Bank of Japan Deputy Governor
 Kiyohiko Nishimura  said the stronger yen may erode corporate
sentiment and push down consumer prices, exacerbating
deflation and weighing on the economic expansion.  “The fact that the recent appreciation of the yen is
deteriorating business sentiment” is a “big factor in
putting downward pressure on economic activity,” Nishimura
said today in a speech in Hiroshima, western Japan. “There
is a risk that the yen’s appreciation will lower consumer
prices not only through worsening economic activity but also
through changes in import prices.”  Nishimura also said the central bank will continue to
pursue “strong” monetary policy measures and stands ready
to take appropriate monetary action. Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his other deputy  Hirohide Yamaguchi  have
already signaled the central bank is ready to ease policy
further if necessary by expanding a 5 trillion-yen fund ($61
billion) created earlier this month.  The Bank of Japan this month pledged to keep its
benchmark interest rate at “virtually zero” until deflation
has ended and decided to create an asset-purchase fund to buy
government debt and assets including exchange traded funds
and real estate investment trusts.  China Rate Increase  In contrast, China’s central bank yesterday unexpectedly
raised borrowing costs for the first time since 2007 to
combat inflation. It lifted the benchmark one-year lending
rate to 5.56 percent from 5.31 percent.  Nishimura said he welcomed the move while adding that
the market reaction needs to be watched.  “It’s a good decision to avert the economy’s
overheating and help to achieve a long-lasting, stable
economic expansion,” Nishimura said at a press conference
today. Even so, “financial markets are becoming nervous”
following the rate increase and “we must keep a close watch
on market moves.”  Nishimura said there is still a risk emerging economies
will grow too rapidly. The U.S. slowdown’s effect on emerging
economies won’t be “small” given the amount those countries
export to the U.S., he said.  Overheating Risk  “There are still many economies whose measures to
contain overheating are not considered to be sufficient” and
“there remains a risk of overheating that the pace of growth
in emerging economies might accelerate amid continued capital
inflows,” he said.  Nishimura said Japan’s economic growth is probably
slower than what the central bank initially projected in July.
The BOJ will release its forecasts for gross domestic product
and prices on Oct. 28.  Board members predicted in July that the Japanese
economy will expand 2.6 percent in the year to March 2011 and
slow to 1.9 percent the following year. Consumer prices
excluding fresh food will decline 0.4 percent in the current
fiscal year and rise 0.1 percent in the fiscal 2011, they
said.  Japan’s government yesterday downgraded its assessment
of the economy for the first time in 20 months as the export-
driven recovery showed further signs of cooling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Hiroshima at  motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  