-- North Korean `Peace Offensive' Won't Yield Dialogue, South's Minister Says
-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   B r e t t   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-20T01:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/north-korea-s-peace-offensive-gestures-won-t-yield-dialogue-hyun-says.html
South Korea’s Unification Minister
 Hyun In Taek  said dialogue with North Korea can resume only
after the regime admits to sinking one of the South’s warships,
dismissing the North’s latest “peace-offensive gestures.”  North Korea proposed cross-border talks in the past month
amid heightened tensions since an international investigation
found it responsible for torpedoing the frigate Cheonan. The
totalitarian government in Pyongyang has repeatedly denied its
role in the March 26 attack, which killed 46 sailors.  “North Korea has to give a clear explanation of the
Cheonan incident,” Hyun, 56, said yesterday in an interview in
Seoul. “It is neither desirable nor right for North Korea to
try to put the incident behind us with a few peace-offensive
gestures.”  Hyun said it was “premature to think about” a summit
between South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  and North Korean
leader  Kim Jong Il . His comments come as the U.S. encourages
South Korea to re-engage with the North as a step toward
reconvening multinational talks to stop the communist nation’s
nuclear weapons program.  “The first step has to be re-engagement between North
Korea and South Korea,”  Kurt Campbell , U.S. assistant secretary
of state for East Asia, told reporters on Oct. 7 in Seoul, when
asked about the possibility of disarmament talks resuming. The
dialogue, also involving China, Japan and Russia, last took
place in December 2008. North Korea has since detonated a second
atomic device.  Family Reunions  South Korea has agreed with the North to hold reunions
between Oct. 30 and Nov. 5 of families separated since the 1950-
53 war. This followed its decision in September to send 5,000
tons of rice to help with flood-relief efforts in North Korea.  The events led to speculation that South Korea, which cut
off most trade with the North in May, was moving toward
normalizing inter-Korean relations.  “These are changes that are too small to prompt any
fundamental change,” Hyun said, adding that his country’s North
Korea policy will be pursued separately from humanitarian issues.  The government aims to complete plans in the first half of
next year on how South Korea could fund reunification with North
Korea, Hyun said.  Lee in August proposed a “unification tax,” which North
Korea said was as a “petty trick” to conceal the South’s aim
of bringing down the regime in Pyongyang.  ‘More Unstable’  “The North Korean regime is more unstable than in the past,
politically, economically and socially,” Hyun said. “We still
don’t believe this will lead to the regime’s collapse any time
soon.”  The peninsula remains divided since the Korean War ended in
a cease-fire, which was never replaced by a peace treaty.  Kim’s youngest son,  Kim Jong Un , was made a general and
appointed to a post in the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea last
month, setting the stage for a hereditary power transfer.  The transition comes as North Korea’s economy labors under
the weight of United Nations sanctions imposed for the nuclear
tests and a botched attempt by the regime to revalue its
currency.  Hyun said it is too early to determine if there will be any
changes in North Korea’s foreign policy with the emergence of
Kim Jong Un.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  