-- North Korea Movements at Nuclear Site Spark Speculation of Test
-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2010-10-21T01:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/north-korea-could-be-preparing-for-a-third-nuclear-test-chosun-ilbo-says.html
Movements of North Korean personnel
and vehicles near an atomic weapons site are sparking
speculation of a third nuclear test as leader  Kim Jong Il  
prepares to hand over power to his youngest son.  A U.S. reconnaissance satellite has detected movements at
Punggyeri in North Korea’s northeastern North Hamgyong Province
that may be related to preparations for a third nuclear test,
 Chosun Ilbo  newspaper reported today, citing a South Korean
government official it didn’t identify. It may take about three
months for the North to conduct a test blast, the report said.  South Korea’s military is carefully monitoring the site,
where activities have commonly been detected, a defense ministry
official said in Seoul on condition of anonymity according to
ministry policy. The official declined to say whether there have
been any abnormal movements in the area to suggest an imminent
nuclear test.  Yonhap News  and KBS television reported today that there
hasn’t been any indication of a nuclear test, both citing South
Korean government officials they didn’t identify.  North Korea conducted its second nuclear test in May 2009
after the first blast in October 2006, prompting the United
Nations Security Council to toughen sanctions. The country may
be seeking to showcase bolstered military capability to rally
support for Kim’s youngest son and heir-apparent, Kim Jong Un,
Chosun said.  Promotion to General  Kim Jong Un  was made a general and appointed to a post in
the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea last month, setting the stage
for a hereditary power transfer.  The six-party talks on ending the North’s nuclear weapons
program last met in December 2008. The arms negotiations also
involve China, Japan, Russia, South Korea and the U.S.  The speculation of North Korea’s nuclear test comes as
South Korea is preparing for the  Group of 20  leaders’ summit in
Seoul next month. South Korea has said the nation is on alert
for possible North Korean provocations including explosions at
“major facilities,” suicide bombings, chemical assaults or
cyber attacks during the Nov. 11-12 meetings.  South Korea remains technically at war with North Korea
since their 1950-53 conflict ended in a cease-fire, which was
never replaced by a peace treaty.  Kim Jong Il ’s regime is
accused of torpedoing a South Korean warship in March, killing
46 sailors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  