-- Novo Nordisk Gains After Rivals' Diabetes Drug Delayed by U.S. Regulators
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2010-10-20T15:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/novo-nordisk-gains-after-rival-to-diabetes-drug-delayed-by-u-s-regulators.html
Novo Nordisk A/S , the world’s
biggest insulin manufacturer, gained the most in two years in
Copenhagen trading after U.S. regulators rejected for a second
time a potential rival to the company’s Victoza diabetes drug.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration yesterday said  Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc .,  Eli Lilly & Co . and  Alkermes Inc . must
conduct a study assessing Bydureon’s heart risks to gain
approval, delaying the medicine’s debut by as much as 20 months.
 Novo shares gained  9.1 percent, the most since Oct. 13, 2008.  “This delay provides Novo a much longer window to entrench
Victoza,”  Joshua Schimmer , analyst at Leerink Swann LLC in New
York, said yesterday in a note to investors.  Victoza is the second, after Lilly’s Byetta, of a new type
of diabetes medicines that stimulate the pancreas to make
insulin by mimicking GLP-1, a naturally occurring hormone. The
Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based company began selling Victoza in
January, and Novo boosted its full-year forecast for revenue and
operating profit in August, prompted partly by sales of the
medicine.  The once-daily injection had taken 27 percent of the U.S.
GLP-1 market about six months after its U.S. introduction, Novo
said in August.  Novo reported Victoza second-quarter sales of 296 million
kroner ($55 million), down 20 percent from the first quarter,
when Novo built up inventories in preparation for the drug’s
market debut. The company reports third-quarter results next
week.  Roche Setback  It’s the second time that Novo has benefitted from a
rival’s setbacks. The stock gained in June, along with Amylin,
after Roche Holding AG said it would postpone development of its
GLP-1 product after more people than expected experienced side
effects including skin reactions and digestive complications.  Lilly had hoped to introduce Bydureon, a once-weekly
version of Byetta, after an initial rejection on March 15.  Phil Nadeau , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New York, had estimated
Bydureon sales of $420 million next year.  Novo shares gained 45 kroner to 538 kroner at the close of
trading in Copenhagen, giving the drugmaker a market value of
322.8 billion kroner ($60.4 billion).  Novo yesterday  fell  to the lowest price in seven weeks
after  Pfizer Inc.  bought rights to develop a rival’s products
for diabetics. The world’s biggest drugmaker agreed to pay $200
million to  Biocon Ltd . for four insulin products, including a
generic version of Novo’s NovoLog. Bangalore, India-based Biocon
may also get sales royalties and payments for meeting
development targets.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Frances Schwartzkopff  at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  