-- Obama’s Bottle, Onassis Plot, Van Morrison: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-10-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/obama-s-water-bottle-onassis-plots-van-morrison-growls-london-weekend.html
Aristotle Onassis , the Greek
shipping magnate, paid a terrorist the sum of $1.2 million to
kill  Robert F. Kennedy  in 1968.  That’s the loopy hypothesis presented in “Onassis,”
currently on the West End stage. Based on a Peter Evans book
(“Nemesis”), the play suggests Onassis plotted the murder to
facilitate his marriage to Bobby Kennedy’s sister-in-law Jackie.  Playing Onassis, in thick eyeglass frames, is Robert
Lindsay. Lydia Leonard is Jackie. The  play  runs till January at
the Novello Theatre, 5 Aldwych, London WC2B 4LD.  Information:  http://www.ambassadortickets.com  or
+44-844-871-7627.  Saturday  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s half-empty water bottle is
currently on view in a London exhibition.  The plastic Sierra Springs bottle was taken by an eager
election campaigner after candidate Obama stepped off a podium
in Pueblo, Colorado. It’s one of more than 300 “Things” loaned
or donated by the public and on show at the  Wellcome Collection .  The bric-a-brac includes a cardiac pacemaker, a set of
moulded teeth, and the kit used by an egg donor to allow another
woman to have twins. The kit is described, in the donor’s own
handwriting, as “a genetic starter pack.”  “Things” was thought up by artist  Keith Wilson , and
Saturday is your last chance to see it. On the floor above is
the original cabinet of curiosities: that of pharmaceutical
entrepreneur  Henry Wellcome  (1853-1936), an assortment of
flasks, masks, medical instruments and even enema syringes.  “Things” is at the Wellcome Collection, 183 Euston Road
London NW1 2BE. Information:  http://www.wellcomecollection.org 
or call +44-20-7611-2222.  Saturday Night  Amy Winehouse ’s producer Mark Ronson has been stealing the
show on his own in the years since “Back in Black” emerged.  Ronson plays the Brixton Academy on Saturday night with his
new band, the Business Intl. The group’s first album “Record
Collection,” released last month, has guest performances by
Simon Le Bon,  Boy George  and Ghostface Killah.  Van Morrison  is also playing at the weekend, taking to the
stage at the Royal Albert Hall. The man who growled his way
through “Listen to the Lion” is mixing in more rock to his
music which varies from “Astral Weeks” folk to “Brown Eyed
Girl” pop.  Information:  http://www.markronson.co.uk/us/frontpage ,
 http://www.royalalberthall.com/   Sunday  Canaletto had plenty of competition, as is obvious from an
exhibition at the  National Gallery .  Giovanni Antonio Canal (1697-1768) is considered by many as
the pioneer of the 18th-century Venetian view painting. In fact,
the genre was started by Dutch-born Gaspar van Wittel, whose
“The Molo from the Bacino di San Marco” (1697) is shown here.  Other rivals followed, including Michele Marieschi -- who
was quicker and charged less -- and the great  Francesco Guardi ,
who produced delicate, detailed views of everyday life.  While there are lots of Venetian vistas to absorb in this
thorough survey, Canaletto’s almost consistently impress.  Information:  http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk  or
+44-20-7747-2885.  Theater Restaurants  Dining out opportunities in the theater district have
improved with the opening of two restaurants. Les Deux Salons
( http://www.lesdeuxsalons.co.uk/ ) is a French brasserie on two
floors. The entire wine list is available by the carafe. Dishes
include young chicken with lemon and garlic, while the
cheeseburger is 12 pounds. The pre-theater menu is 15 pounds for
three courses. It’s a beautiful room with food to match from
 Anthony Demetre , whose other restaurants are Wild Honey and
Arbutus.  The other place to look out for is the new Covent Garden
branch of Hawksmoor, an East London steak house known for great
meat and cocktails. Hawksmoor Seven Dials
( http://www.thehawksmoor.co.uk/ ) officially opens on Nov. 1 and
there are currently previews.  ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 