-- Obama Heads West Aiming to Defend Democratic Hold on Key States
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-10-20T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/obama-makes-last-big-midterm-u-s-election-push-with-west-coast-campaign.html
President  Barack Obama  heads west
today aiming to defend his party’s congressional majorities with
campaign stops in Democratic-leaning states where he’s likely to
have the biggest impact less than two weeks before the election.  The president will raise money and headline events in five
states over four days with a focus on three incumbent Democrats
in close races: Senators  Barbara Boxer  in California,  Patty Murray  in Washington and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  in
Nevada. He’ll also campaign for Democratic gubernatorial
candidates  John Kitzhaber  in Oregon and  Mark Dayton  in Minnesota
and raise money for House candidates.  “These are the kinds of places where the president can
have some appeal,” said  Stuart Rothenberg , publisher of the
nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in Washington. “There
are Democrats who can be, and need to be, turned out and the
president may have some ability to do that.”  Republicans need a net gain of 39 seats to get a majority
in the 435-member House of Representatives. Rothenberg forecasts
Republicans will gain 40 to 50 seats, with 60 possible. In the
Senate, where Republicans now hold 41 of 100 seats, Rothenberg
expects Republicans to pick up six to eight seats, not enough to
claim a majority.  “Washington and California will likely determine control
of the Senate,”  Dan Pfeiffer , White House communications
director, said. “We need to win both of those.”  Race Ratings  In California, where Boxer is facing Republican  Carly Fiorina , the former chief executive officer of  Hewlett-Packard
Co. , Rothenberg rates the race as leaning Democratic. Murray’s
race against Republican  Dino Rossi , a businessman and former
state senator, tilts Democratic, according to Rothenberg. Reid’s
race against  Sharon Angle , who is backed by the Tea Party, is a
toss-up, he said.  Obama and the Democrats are confronted with voter anger
over the state of the U.S. economy. An Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg
National Poll shows that almost two-thirds of voters believe the
country is on the wrong track and unemployment is the top
concern for about half the electorate. The  deficit , which was
almost $1.3 trillion for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30,
ranks as the second most pressing issue, cited by 27 percent.  The economic issue is underscored in the states Obama is
visiting. California, Nevada and Oregon have unemployment rates
above the national  average  of 9.6 percent. Nevada’s 14.4 percent
jobless rate is the highest in the U.S., and the home
foreclosure rate is five times the national average, according
to  RealtyTrac Inc . of Irvine, California.  Rekindling Support  Obama took all five states in the  2008 election  with
winning percentages ranging from 54 percent in Minnesota to 61
percent in California, and he’s been attempting to revive some
of that enthusiasm for the congressional elections.  “Our mission in the last two weeks is to get people
energized and understanding that there are real stakes in this
election and that it’s important to participate,”  David Axelrod , a senior adviser to Obama, said.  While polls show Republican voters have been more engaged
in the political process this year than Democrats, White House
officials point to evidence indicating their supporters are
turning attention to the Nov. 2 congressional election.  An Oct. 14  Fox News/Opinion Dynamics poll  showed that 64
percent of Democrats are either extremely or very interested in
the November elections, up from 60 percent Sept. 28-29. Among
Republicans, 71 percent said they were extremely or very
interested in the forthcoming elections -- down from 78 percent
last month.  Voter Rallies  Obama has scheduled two rallies, one in Los Angeles and
another in Las Vegas, aimed at generating support for Democrats
nationally and at the local level.  He’ll also hold a backyard discussion in Seattle on Oct. 21
with Murray focused on economic issues specific to women. The
trip ends in Minneapolis with events for Dayton and the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.  Obama has another fundraiser scheduled for Oct. 25 in Rhode
Island. His aides are still deciding which states and races to
target in the final days before the midterm elections. Obama
will travel again Oct. 30 and 31, the weekend before election.  “We’re going where the races are and where we can be most
helpful in making sure Democrats keep control of both houses,”
Pfeiffer said. “Obviously we’ve got a lot of work to do in the
last two weeks, but we are making progress.”  Raising Money  This trip includes raising money to help the party pay for
advertising and boosting Democratic turnout.  While Democratic fundraising committees for the House and
Senate entered the final full month of the 2010 campaign with
more money than their Republican counterparts, Republican-
leaning outside groups such as  Karl Rove ’s American Crossroads
are more than making up the difference. The independent
organizations, a frequent target of Obama’s criticism, spent
about $73 million from Sept. 1 to Oct. 12, four times as much as
Democratic-leaning organizations, Federal Election Commission
records show.  Since March 2009 Obama has raised roughly $45 million for
Democratic candidates and party organizations and about $11.25
million since Labor Day, according to an administration
official.  “The president is, of course, fundraiser-in-chief no
matter what his approval ratings are,” Rothenberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  