-- Enemies of Obamacare Should Curb Their Enthusiasm: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-10-20T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/obamacare-enemies-should-curb-their-enthusiasm-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
A federal judge in Pensacola,
Florida, gave enemies of the national health care reform law
reason to rejoice last week when he said it looks sort of
unconstitutional.  “This ruling is a victory for the states, small businesses
and the American people,” crowed Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum , one of the leaders behind the challenge.  Might I suggest a curbing of enthusiasm? A closer look at
this and other health-care rulings shows the legal case against
so-called Obamacare has a long, difficult slog ahead.  You wouldn’t know that from some of the language in U.S.
District Court Judge  Roger Vinson ’s 65-page decision last week.
He slammed the notion Congress has the constitutional authority
to require all Americans to buy health insurance.  “The power that the individual mandate seeks to harness is
simply without prior precedent,” Vinson said.  The case is in an early stage, so he hasn’t yet actually
struck down the  law . Vinson merely said the appearance of
unconstitutionality is strong enough to keep the case going. As
a starting point, Vinson’s order cheers Obamacare haters.  “This is not even a close call,” the judge wrote.  But if it’s that obvious, at least one other judge would
have reached the same conclusion on the same question. None
have.  U.S. District Judge  Henry Hudson  of Richmond, Virginia,
ruled in August that it’s not the least bit clear whether
Congress can do what it did. Hudson wanted more argument before
deciding.  Yes, No, Undecided  The answer is clear to a federal judge in Detroit, but he
reached the opposite conclusion from Vinson’s. U.S. District
Judge  George Steeh  said the insurance mandate clearly falls
within Congress’s constitutional authority to regulate
interstate commerce.  To recap, one judge says yes, one says no, and one is
undecided. That seems like a close call to me.  And yet, that one, commerce-clause argument is the
strongest one left in the case before Vinson, who tossed out
four other reasons offered for why the law should be struck
down.  Barely surviving his pen is the notion that by greatly
expanding Medicaid, a joint federal-state program for the poor,
Congress is unconstitutionally coercing states to spend money
they don’t want to spend.  That claim, the judge ruled, is indeed a “close call.”  So there’s a good chance he’ll pare that out of the case,
too, leaving only the pivotal question of whether Congress
overstepped its authority under the  Commerce Clause .  Twenty States  The case in Vinson’s court has been widely viewed as the
heftiest of the 15 to 20 legal challenges to the health-care
overhaul filed around the country. It was brought by attorneys
general or governors from 20 states, plus the  National
Federation of Independent Business , a small business owner and a
man who doesn’t want to buy health insurance.  If Vinson tosses out the states’ Medicaid coercion claim,
the states will no longer be plaintiffs. It’s the last ground
the states have to stand on because the judge last week
dismissed the other claims that state sovereignty trumps
Washington in this matter.  The best chance for a states’ rights argument to win is in
Virginia. The commonwealth has a unique case because its
legislature passed the Virginia Health Care Freedom Act, which
says Virginians can’t be forced to buy insurance.  Bush, Reagan, Clinton  The conflict between state and federal law gives the
commonwealth standing to sue in a way that other states don’t
have. Even if Hudson says Virginia’s trumps federal law, it
won’t much help states that don’t have their own statutes. (It
isn’t clear whether passing such a law after the federal one was
enacted would work. Virginia’s was signed into law immediately
after Obama signed the federal law, but before Congress
completed the final version.)  You may be wondering about judicial bias given the
polarized politics of the issue.  George W. Bush  named Hudson in
Virginia.  Ronald Reagan  nominated Vinson in Florida. Steeh in
Michigan is a  Bill Clinton  appointee.  Hudson and Steeh’s rulings read like court orders should,
displaying no obvious bias, hitting the legal points and not
exploring political concerns, which are fierce in this
controversy.  Vinson, on the other hand, leaves little doubt where he
stands personally and politically. For a taste, here he is
describing how the law was passed:  “Some say it was the product of an open and honest process
between lawmakers sufficiently acquainted with its myriad
provisions, while others contend that it was drafted behind
closed doors and pushed through Congress by parliamentary
tricks, late night weekend votes, and last minute deals among
members of Congress who did not read or otherwise know what was
in it.”  Let’s see. Any guesses as to which view the judge holds?  No Relevance  Look, some of the shenanigans involved in the bill’s
passage were shameful. But that has nothing to do with whether
the law is constitutional or Vinson’s job in determining it, as
the judge acknowledges.  But then, that’s why this case was brought to Pensacola,
because only conservative, Republican-appointed judges sit
there.  The fact that Vinson killed most of the lawsuit means
either that his obvious bias didn’t interfere with his judgment,
or that the part he left alive is a much closer call than he
says.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  