-- Och-Ziff Wins Lawsuit Against London Firm OCH Over Name Use
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-10-20T16:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/och-ziff-wins-u-k-lawsuit-against-london-firm-och-capital-over-name-use.html
Och-Ziff Capital Management Group ,
the hedge-fund firm run by  Daniel Och , won a lawsuit against a
London investment adviser and its founder to block the use of
the Och name.  OCH Capital LLP  and  Thomas Ochocki  infringed the Och-Ziff
trademark, Judge  Richard Arnold  in London ruled today. Och-
Ziff’s European unit sued the London firm last year and asked
the court to stop the firm from using the first portion of its
name. Och-Ziff has more than $26 billion in assets under
management for about 600 investors.  OCH Capital began operating in September 2009, according to
the judgment. Och-Ziff learned of the firm when an interior
designer who works for the hedge fund saw the OCH Capital sign
on a building in the Mayfair neighborhood of London and assumed
it was Och-Ziff. Two other men, an art consultant and an
investment banker, also confused the two, according to
testimony.  “OCH is strongly distinctive for financial services,”
Arnold said in the judgment. “There is a manifest likelihood of
confusion on the part of both types of consumer.”  Ochocki said he would comment on the judgment later today.
 Jonathan Gasthalter , a spokesman for New York-based Och-Ziff,
declined to comment.  Damages  Damages in the case will be set at a later hearing.  A lawyer for OCH Capital,  Alistair Wilson , said during a
three-day trial two weeks ago that the London-based firm
pronounces its name as initials, and offered to Och-Ziff to
clarify that late last year by changing its name to O.C.H.
Capital. The name was never changed, Arnold said in the
judgment.  Ochocki named the firm after the first three letters of his
last name because colleagues and clients had trouble pronouncing
it, according to the judgment. Before his firm, Ochocki worked
as a stockbroker since 2001.  Och-Ziff’s lawyers sent OCH Capital a letter in October of
2009, alleging trademark infringement and passing off, and asked
the investment adviser to change its name. The hedge fund sought
trademark protection for OCH the same month and sued OCH Capital
in November 2009 after not receiving a reply. The trademark was
registered in June.  ‘Under Construction’  At the time Och-Ziff sent the letter, the London-based firm
“had only just started trading, its website was still under
construction and its brochure had not been printed,” the
judgment said. “It would therefore have been relatively easy
for it to change or at least modify its name at that stage.
Despite this, OCH Capital carried on using OCH.”  Ochocki, who “admitted in his evidence that he had been at
least vaguely aware of the existence of Och-Ziff before he had
set up OCH Capital,” should have “appreciated that there was
at least a risk of confusion,” Arnold said.  Och-Ziff was started in 1994 by former  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  trader Och, 49, and Ziff Brothers Investments LLC with
money from the Ziff media empire.  The case is Och-Ziff Management Europe v. OCH Capital LLP,
case No. 112/10, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division
(London).  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 