-- Oil Rises on U.S. Fuel Stockpile Drop; Chinese Demand May Climb
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-20T12:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/oil-rises-on-speculation-u-s-fuel-supplies-dropped-china-demand-outlook.html
Crude rose, recouping part of the
biggest loss in eight months, on signs that U.S. fuel stockpiles
are shrinking and speculation that China will continue to drive
oil demand.  The U.S. Energy Department may report today that gasoline
stockpiles fell 1.5 million barrels last week, according to a
 Bloomberg News survey . Futures rebounded after yesterday’s 4.3
percent decline, the biggest drop since Feb. 4, as concern eased
that an unexpected rate increase by China’s central bank will
harm fuel consumption in the world’s largest energy user.  “China’s demand for oil remains strong and the rate hike
is not of a magnitude that would change that,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG in
Vienna. “In the long run, China’s decision may be positive
because it shows the government’s confidence in the economy.”  The November contract, which expires today, advanced as
much as $1.12, or 1.4 percent, to $80.61 a barrel in electronic
trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It traded for
$80.27 at 1 p.m. London time. Brent crude oil for December
settlement increased as much as $1.26, or 1.6 percent, to $82.36
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Futures yesterday fell $3.59 to $79.49 in New York. Today
the more-actively traded December contract rose 74 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $80.90. China’s central bank raised borrowing costs
for the first time since 2007, lifting the benchmark one-year
lending rate to 5.56 percent from 5.31 percent. The move came to
slow gains in property prices and curb lending by banks.  China Confidence  Steps taken by the government earlier this year to slow
China’s economy haven’t had an impact on oil and fuel demand.
The country’s crude  imports  climbed to a record 23.29 million
metric tons in September, passing the previous high set in June.  “The rate decision reflects continued confidence in
China’s macroeconomic performance and demand for oil, which
should be positive for prices in the long run,”  Mark Pervan ,
head of commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in Melbourne, said in a note today.  Oil climbed today as the dollar reversed three days of
gains against the euro on speculation Federal Reserve policy
makers will take more credit-easing measures. The dollar dropped
0.9 percent to $1.3853 to the euro.  Crude is also gaining on signs that U.S. fuel demand is
rebounding from last year’s slump. U.S. gasoline demand rose 2.7
percent last week, the largest week-to-week jump since May 28,
MasterCard Inc. said in its SpendingPulse report.  Motorists bought an average 9.26 million barrels of fuel a
day in the week ended Oct. 15, the second-biggest payments
network company said. Fuel use was the highest since Aug. 20.  U.S. Inventories  U.S. crude inventories increased by 2.3 million barrels
last week, the industry-funded American Petroleum Institute said
yesterday. A U.S. Energy Department report today may show oil
 stockpiles rose  1.5 million barrels last week, according to the
median of analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline inventories dropped 83,000 barrels last week, the
API said. Distillate fuel stockpiles including heating oil and
diesel fell 854,000 barrels.  The institute collects stockpile information on a voluntary
basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  