-- Crude Falls in New York Following Biggest Rally in More Than Two Months
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2010-10-21T13:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/oil-near-82-after-rising-the-most-in-five-weeks-in-n-y-as-dollar-falls.html
Crude oil fell as traders bet that
yesterday’s gains of more than $2 a barrel weren’t justified by
the outlook for demand in the U.S. and China.  Futures declined as much as 1 percent in New York, giving
up some of yesterday’s 3 percent advance, the biggest in more
than two months.  “After yesterday’s $2 rally, it is not abnormal to
see some profit-taking,” said  Andy Sommer , a senior analyst at
EGL AG in Dietikon, Switzerland.  Oil for December delivery lost as much as 86 cents to
$81.85 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, and was at $81.83 at 1:49 p.m. London time. The
contract surged $2.38 yesterday. Brent crude for December
settlement dropped as much as 60 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $83 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Crude also declined after a government report showed that
China’s economic growth slowed to 9.6 percent in the third
quarter. U.S. gasoline stockpiles increased unexpectedly last
week, an Energy Department report showed yesterday.  China’s gross domestic product growth slowed from 10.3
percent in the second quarter and 11.9 percent in the first
three months of the year. Monthly crude oil processing volume
increased the least in 18 months in September, according to
faxed data from China Mainland Marketing Research Co.  Refining Growth Slows  Refineries in the world’s biggest energy user processed
34.9 million metric tons of crude last month, or about 8.5
million barrels a day. That’s up 6.6 percent from a year ago,
the smallest year-on-year gain since March 2009.  “The market is still range-bound,” said  Carsten Fritsch ,
an analyst at Commerzbank AG. “We’re close to the top end of
the range so it’s quite possible that there was technical
selling as oil failed to reach yesterday’s high.”  An Energy Department report yesterday showed U.S.
inventories of gasoline rose 1.12 million barrels last week.
They were forecast to fall 1.5 million barrels, according to the
median of 16 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Crude oil must break below a so-called Fibonacci support
level at $79.75 a barrel before prices can plunge, a technical
analysis by Societe Generale SA showed.  December futures lost 5.5 percent since Oct. 7 when they
touched the top of a “rising channel” that has bound prices
since May. If they slip further to this level, retracing 62
percent of September’s rally, losses may deepen to the bottom of
the channel, near $73 a barrel, according to  Stephanie Aymes , a
London-based analyst at Societe Generale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai at   adaya1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  