-- Home Retail Profit Falls 23% on Furniture Declines, Promotions
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-10-20T08:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/home-retail-says-first-half-profit-tumbles-by-23-on-increased-promotions.html
Home Retail Group Plc , the U.K.
owner of the Homebase home-improvement chain and Argos catalog
stores, said first-half pretax profit declined 23 percent as
cash-strapped consumers spent less on furniture and video games
at Argos and it offered discounts to drive revenue.  So-called benchmark pretax profit slipped to 94.7 million
pounds ($149 million) in the six months ended Aug. 28 from 122.7
million pounds a year earlier, the Milton Keynes, England-based
company said in a  statement  today. The median  estimate  of nine
analysts compiled by Bloomberg was for profit of 94 million
pounds.  Chief Executive Officer  Terry Duddy  said on a conference
call that the retailer is “planning cautiously” for the
Christmas trading period and not assuming the lower-income Argos
customer base will bear the brunt of the U.K. government’s
spending review today. Consumer confidence plummeted in
September to an 18-month low as Britons braced themselves for
the biggest spending cuts since World War II, according to
Nationwide Building Society.  “Profit came in at the midpoint of the expected range,”
 Ramona Tipnis , an analyst at Shore Capital, said in an e-mail.
“Argos has had to battle an increasingly reluctant customer
base. Homebase has been a bit more resilient.”  Home Retail fell as much as 10.5 pence, or 4.8 percent, the
most since Sep. 9. The stock traded at 216.1 pence, down 1.7
percent, at 9:32 a.m. in London. It has fallen 23 percent this
year. The retailer maintained its interim dividend at 4.7 pence
per share.  World Cup, Christmas  Finance Director  Richard Ashton  said the company lowered
prices on televisions around the World Cup at its Argos outlets
to drive sales. Promotions at Homebase stores were “relatively
flat,” he said on a call with journalists. Christmas is
expected to remain at the “same level” of discounts as last
year.  Market share remained steady or increased in most
categories at Argos, which began selling Apple Inc.’s iPad at 83
stores, while Homebase maintained its share.  “Although we are cautious in our outlook, we don’t see
things being terribly worse,” Duddy said. “It’s about having
the right product in the right place, and at this stage we’re
very confident we’re going to have what we need for Christmas,”
the CEO said, adding he expects toy hamsters and Chad Valley
products to be popular this year.  ‘Under-Pressure Demographic’  “High exposure to the most under-pressure demographic
group” and Argos’s “structural challenges” will limit growth,
Execution Noble analyst Caroline Gulliver said in a research
report before the release. She has a “sell” rating on the
stock.  Net income fell to 74.7 million pounds from 77.7 million
pounds a year earlier. Profit before interest and taxes at the
Argos chain fell 32 percent to 54.4 million pounds, while
Homebase’s profit declined by 5.5 percent to 46.2 million pounds
on the same basis.  Home Retail is refurbishing two-thirds of its Argos outlets
in the next three years with jewelry and consumer electronics
displays and kiosks which check availability. The retailer is
also adding bathroom installation services across its Homebase
outlets and selling bedroom furniture and flooring installation
on a trial basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 