-- TomTom Third-Quarter Profit Drops on Development Costs, Dollar
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2010-10-20T06:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/tomtom-third-quarter-profit-drops-on-development-costs-dollar.html
TomTom NV , Europe’s biggest maker of
portable navigation devices, said third-quarter profit fell as
development costs rose and the dollar declined versus the euro.  Net income dropped to 19.3 million euros ($26.6 million)
from 30.5 million euros a year earlier, the Amsterdam-based
company said in a statement today. That missed the average
 estimate  of 29.9 million euros in a Bloomberg survey of eight
analysts. Spending on technology increased to 36.5 million euros
from 31.4 million euros, TomTom said.  TomTom, which competes with Garmin Ltd. and Google Inc.,
aims to get more revenue from maps, services and built-in
systems in cars as sales of portable navigation devices slow and
competition increases from services on smartphones. The Dutch
company said on Sept. 30 that it reached a supply agreement with
Japanese carmaker Mazda Motor Corp.  “The significant weakening of the dollar against the euro
toward the end of the quarter” as well as a “seasonally high
level of option and forward contracts,” led to a financial
charge of 20 million euros, TomTom said today.  TomTom has  declined  2.9 percent this year to 6.07 euros in
Amsterdam trading, compared with a 1.1 percent increase of the
25-member Amsterdam Exchanges Index. That values the company at
1.34 billion euros.  Sales Beat Estimate  Third-quarter sales rose 3 percent to 375 million euros,
helped by increased revenue at the automotive unit. That beat
the 365.5 million-euro average estimate of 12 analysts.  TomTom said it’s sticking to full-year  forecasts  for
revenue and earnings per share to be “broadly flat” compared
with last year. Sales  totaled  1.48 billion euros in 2009, while
earnings per share amounted to 47 cents.  Mazda, Japan’s second-largest car exporter, will buy a
dashboard-installed multimedia and navigation device developed
in cooperation with Sanyo Electric Co., offering the product as
an option on the new Mazda5 model in Europe, TomTom said last
month.  A new joint venture with Beijing-based AutoNavi Holdings
Ltd. will give TomTom customers access to digital maps and real-
time traffic services in China in a standard format, the Dutch
company said on Oct. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
 Martijn van der Starre  in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  