-- Morgan Stanley Reports Loss After Casino Project Writedown
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-10-20T20:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/morgan-stanley-posts-loss-after-writing-down-stake-in-revel-casino-project.html
Morgan Stanley , owner of the world’s
largest brokerage, reported an unexpected third-quarter loss
after its worst trading quarter since 2008 and a $229 million
writedown on a New Jersey casino project.  The loss of 7 cents a share, or  profit  of $131 million
before preferred dividends, compared with earnings of $757
million, or 38 cents, in the third quarter of 2009, the New
York-based company said today in a statement. Earnings from
continuing operations were 5 cents a share, which included a 12-
cent tax gain and a 30-cent loss from charges related to changes
in the firm’s credit spreads.  Morgan Stanley hired about 400 new employees for the sales
and trading unit since posting a per-share loss in last year’s
second quarter. Those efforts didn’t pay off for Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman , 52, as trading revenue last quarter fell
to less than half that of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Bank of
America Corp.  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “What an ugly quarter,” said  Brad Hintz  at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., who was named the top analyst covering
brokerage firms in a survey of fund managers by Institutional
Investor magazine this year. “Trading was abysmal.”  Morgan Stanley fell 1 cent to $25.38 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, after dropping as much as 4.5
percent earlier today.  The stock  is down 14 percent this year.  Bank of America  Goldman Sachs yesterday reported earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates as lower costs and higher investment-banking
revenue cushioned a decline in trading. Bank of America and
JPMorgan, the two biggest U.S. banks by assets, both reported at
least a 15 percent drop in trading revenue from the third
quarter of 2009.  Morgan Stanley’s total revenue from equity and fixed-income
trading fell 45 percent to $1.77 billion, compared with $5.63
billion at Goldman Sachs and $4.5 billion at Bank of America.
The decline in revenue comes even as it had higher trading
value-at-risk, a measure of how much the firm could lose trading
in a single day, than Goldman Sachs.  In the third quarter, Morgan Stanley’s revenue from fixed-
income sales and trading was $846 million, compared with $3.77
billion at Goldman Sachs and $3.53 billion at Bank of America
Corp.  Excluding gains or losses from its own credit spreads,
fixed-income revenue was $1.31 billion. That missed estimates
for $1.8 billion from Hintz at Sanford C. Bernstein and $1.64
billion from  Roger Freeman  at Barclays Capital.  ‘True Potential’  “Fixed-income is really the area that underperformed and
our view is that the results don’t reflect the true potential of
our franchise,” Chief Financial Officer  Ruth Porat  said in an
interview. “We didn’t lose a lot, we didn’t make a lot, there
just wasn’t much trading there.”  In equities trading, Morgan Stanley posted third-quarter
revenue of $925 million, down 35 percent from the second
quarter, when it led U.S. banks in that category. The unit’s
revenue, which was $1.07 billion a year earlier, compares with
$1.86 billion at Goldman Sachs and $1.14 billion at JPMorgan.
Excluding debt-valuation adjustments, revenue was $1.12 billion.  “Equity trading in particular is surprising given that
peers, for the most part, outperformed sequentially given much
more favorable market trends during the third quarter,”  Doug Sipkin , an analyst at Ticonderoga Securities, said in a note to
clients.  Gorman said on the conference call that most of the firm’s
new hires in sales and trading this year joined in the second
and third quarters and should be “fully productive” by the
first quarter of next year.  Credit Spreads  Revenue was lowered by $731 million of charges related to
the narrowing of the firm’s own credit spreads. The company
booked $5.1 billion of gains in fiscal 2008 as its bond spreads
widened, then reversed them in 2009 as markets improved and
spreads tightened.  Morgan Stanley said in April it would sell its stake in
Revel Entertainment LLC, the unfinished casino resort in
Atlantic City. The bank said at the time that the sale may
result in a “substantial” loss of its $1.2 billion investment.
The third-quarter Revel writedown follows a $932 million loss on
the investment taken in the first quarter. Porat said the stake
is now valued at $40 million.  “Our results in aggregate clearly do not reflect the true
potential of Morgan Stanley’s  global  client franchise and I am
not satisfied with our overall performance,” Gorman said in the
statement.  Analysts’ Estimate  The average estimate of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for earnings of 21 cents a share, though some analysts
included the credit-spread calculation in their figures and
others excluded it.  Revenue  at Morgan Stanley fell to $6.78 billion from $8.47
billion a year earlier. Book value per share climbed to $31.25
from $29.65 at the end of June. The firm’s return on equity from
continuing operations, a measure of how well it reinvests
earnings, was 0.8 percent.  Morgan Stanley generated $1.01 billion in revenue from
investment banking.  Global wealth management posted pretax income of $281
million, up from $280 million in the third quarter of 2009.
Asset management reported a pretax gain of $279 million,
compared with a $124 million pretax loss in the previous year’s
period.  Cost Controls  Gorman is trying to control expenses after the firm posted
its first per-share loss as a public company in 2009 and paid
out 62 percent of  revenue  in compensation. Morgan Stanley halted
hiring at its investment-banking group for the rest of 2010, a
person briefed on the decision said in September.  Compensation and benefits decreased 25 percent to $3.69
billion in the quarter, or 54 percent of the firm’s overall
revenue. The ratio was higher than in the first two quarters,
when the bank set aside 49 percent of revenue. Excluding debt-
valuation adjustments, the third-quarter ratio was 49 percent,
Porat said on a conference call.  Morgan Stanley’s 5 cents in income per share from
continuing operations compared with Hintz’s estimate of 19
cents, he said. Most of the difference, 10 cents, came from the
firm’s decision to pay out a higher proportion of revenue as
compensation than the 50 percent he expected, Hintz said.  “We can forget all about management’s talk about belt-
tightening and co-investing,” he said.  Risk-Weighted Assets  Morgan Stanley expects to have $326 billion of risk-
weighted assets under the Basel I framework, Porat said on the
call. Under new rules proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, so-called Basel III, that would have increased by
about $240 billion, or $140 billion after $100 billion in
expected run-offs and mitigation efforts that could be completed
by the end of 2012, Porat said.  Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar  said on
a conference call yesterday that his bank would have had about
$750 billion of risk-weighted assets at the end of June under
Basel III, compared with the $451 billion it reported under
Basel I.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  