-- Origin's Report of Chemicals in Gas Wells May Delay LNG Project Approvals
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-20T07:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/origin-s-report-of-chemicals-in-gas-wells-may-delay-lng-project-approvals.html
The Australian government may delay
approvals for proposed coal-bed methane projects in Queensland
state after  Origin Energy Ltd.  said it found traces of banned
chemicals in exploration wells, Macquarie Group Ltd. said.  Environment Minister  Tony Burke  is due to decide by Oct. 22
whether to approve  Santos Ltd.  and  BG Group Plc  liquefied
natural gas ventures. Origin and partner  ConocoPhillips  plan a
A$35 billion ($34 billion) Queensland project to extract gas
from coal seams for conversion to LNG and export to Asia.  “The timing clearly couldn’t be worse,” Macquarie’s
Sydney-based analyst  Adrian Wood  said by phone today. “But if
you approach it with a level head you see that the quantities of
contaminants identified are so small. I don’t think this at all
puts the future of coal seam gas-to-LNG in jeopardy.”  The Origin and  ConocoPhillips  venture found traces of
benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene -- together known as
BTEX -- in samples taken from eight wells in the Surat Basin,
the Sydney-based company said yesterday. Origin said it informed
regulators of the results and agreed to independent testing.  Origin  declined 1.7 percent to A$16.01 by the 4:10 p.m.
close in Sydney trading, compared with a drop of 0.7 percent for
the S&P/ASX 200 Index. Santos fell 2.2 percent to A$12.46.  “There has to be a risk things do get delayed because they
will want to get comfortable with where this is coming from
before they approve the projects,” Macquarie’s Wood said.
“Arguably this hurts Santos and BG more than Origin.”  ‘Thousands of Jobs’  An Australian Environment Department spokeswoman said today
that Oct. 22 remains the target for Burke’s decision, asking not
to be named because of department policy.  Di Brookman , an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in
Sydney who has a “buy” rating on Santos shares, said in an e-
mail that while the government may meet that deadline, it may
clear the Queensland developments “with conditions.”  Matthew Doman , a spokesman at Adelaide-based Santos,
declined to comment on Burke’s review. Australia’s third-largest
oil and gas producer has conducted “extensive” tests to gauge
the environmental impact of its coal-seam gas operations and
hasn’t identified any BTEX chemicals, he said.  Paul Larter, a spokesman at BG’s Australian unit in
Brisbane, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  The Queensland government has said it is committed to
enforcing its ban on the use of BTEX. The projects, including
the venture planned by Origin and ConocoPhillips, may generate
“thousands of jobs and billions of dollars of investment,” the
government has said.  ‘Strike a Balance’  “We want to make sure we strike the right balance between
environmental sustainability and economic growth,” Queensland
Natural Resources Minister  Stephen Robertson  said Aug. 4.  Australia Pacific LNG doesn’t use BTEX to extract the gas,
and tests are underway to find out how the substance came to be
in the wells, Origin said. Benzene is a carcinogen found in
petrol and used as an industrial solvent, the Queensland
government said on its website.  The amount of the substance Origin detected is equivalent
to “between a thimble-full and a half-cup full of chemical in
an Olympic-sized swimming pool,” Paul Zealand, the company’s
executive general manager of exploration, said by phone today.  An investigation to find the source is likely to take a
“number of weeks,” he said. It isn’t expected to lead to
delays in the development time line, he said.  The process of extracting gas from coal seams involves
pumping fluids at high pressure to fracture the rock and allow
gas to flow. Queensland Conservation  says on its website  the
process could cause contamination of adjacent aquifers.  Water Supplies  There is no evidence of any impact on surrounding
landholders’ water supplies, according to Origin, which has
suspended fracturing at exploration wells pending the tests.  Burke extended a review of the ventures after being
appointed to the post by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  on Sept.
11. A ruling had been expected by Oct. 11 after a deferral in
July by former Environment Minister  Peter Garrett .  The discovery of BTEX in the wells appears to be an
“isolated issue,” Macquarie’s Wood said. “If we’re talking
about a delay, I think we’re probably only talking about days or
weeks, not months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 