-- Osborne to Slash Jobs, Tax Banks in U.K. Budget Cuts
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-10-20T14:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/osborne-pledges-8-billion-reduction-in-u-k-debt-costs-amid-spending-cuts.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  detailed the deepest budget cuts ever in Britain,
eliminating almost 500,000 public-sector jobs and imposing a
levy on banks to extract the “maximum sustainable” revenue.  “Today’s the day when Britain steps back from the brink,”
Osborne told lawmakers in the House of Commons in London today
as he outlined plans to virtually eliminate a 156 billion-pound
($245 billion) budget deficit. It’s “a day of rebuilding when
we set out a four-year plan to put our public services and
welfare state on a sustainable footing.”  At stake is Britain’s top credit rating, a fragile recovery
from its longest recession on record and the future shape of the
postwar welfare state. Investors said they’re concerned Osborne,
39, the youngest chancellor since 1886, will have difficulty
delivering on the promises, which include a cut of 7 billion
pounds from the welfare bill.  By reducing departmental spending by an average of 19
percent instead of the 25 percent he first estimated, Osborne
relied more on trimming welfare,  Hetal Mehta , an economist at
Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Ltd. and a former U.K. Treasury
official said. “Unlike more easily identifiable spending cuts
such as a naval ship or a new school, reducing welfare payments
is traditionally more difficult to both achieve and forecast.”  The plans would reduce public spending by 81 billion pounds
after inflation, narrowing a deficit that the government
forecasts at 10.1 percent of gross domestic product this year to
2.1 percent in the 2014-15 fiscal year. Debt interest costs
would fall by more than 5 billion pounds by 2015.  Pound’s Move  The pound rose 0.9 percent to $1.5846 at 3:45 p.m. in
London. It weakened 0.8 percent against the euro to 88 pence.  Legislation to impose a permanent levy on banks will be
published tomorrow, Osborne said.  “We neither want to let banks off making their fair
contribution, nor do we want to drive them abroad,” he said.
“Our aim will be to extract the maximum sustainable tax
revenues from financial services. We will assess what those
maximum revenues could be -- not just in one year, but over a
period of years.”  In a June 22 budget blueprint, Osborne said he intended to
raise more than 2 billion pounds a year through a tax on bank
balance sheets.  Osborne said he agreed with the Office for Budget
Responsibility estimate that 490,000 public-sector workers will
lose their jobs over four years. He said much of that will be
achieved by not filling vacant posts.  Welfare Cuts  Cuts in welfare spending will total 7 billion pounds a year
through a cap in benefits to unemployed families at the average
working family’s income and a curb on payments for housing
subsidies and tax  credits . The retirement age will rise to 66 by
2020, earlier than projected.  The opposition Labour Party said the cuts were driven by
ideology more than necessity.  “We have seen people cheering the deepest cuts to public
spending in living memory,” said  Alan Johnson , Labour’s
Treasury spokesman. “This is what they came into politics for.
Today is the day that abstract figures and spreadsheets turn
into people’s jobs and people’s futures.”  Before today, the government plans to trim the budget had
won over investors. Gilts have returned 6.6 percent since  David Cameron  replaced Labour Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  in May, more
than the 3.8 percent gain by German bunds and the 5.9 percent
increase in U.S. Treasuries, show indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The
pound has gained more than 5 percent against the dollar.  Spending Reductions  Osborne said a 6 billion-pound cut in central government
spending was double what he estimated in June. Funds for local
governments will fall 7.1 percent by 2015 and money for the
royal family will be frozen next year.  The Foreign Office will see its funding cut by 24 percent
and the Ministry of Justice will be cut by an average of 6
percent a year.  Labor unions said the lack of detail from the chancellor
hid the true impact the cuts will have and said they will
depress the economy, leading to a million job losses.  “Right across government, the chancellor has announced
eye-watering cuts that will have a desperate impact on
communities, business and hard-pressed families but he has not
had the guts to spell out the detail,” said  Brendan Barber ,
general secretary of the 6.2 million member Trades Union
Congress. “There will be plenty of pain, but little to gain.”  Coalition Divisions  Divisions on the implementation of cuts have already
emerged within the government, with  Chris Huhne , the Liberal
Democrat Energy Secretary, saying on Oct. 8 that the government
may need to change its plans if the economy fails to strengthen.
Lawmakers from Cameron’s own Conservative Party have questioned
the implementation of cuts in child-benefit payments to 1
million better-off families.  Cameron pledged before the election to protect spending on
the National Health Service, which provides free medical
treatment for everyone resident in Britain, and to maintain
spending on foreign aid. Those pledges, which were opposed by
the Liberal Democrats before the election, have increased the
pressure for cuts on other departments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Gonzalo Vina  in London on 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  