-- U.K. Bank Tax Will Be Raised to ‘Maximum Sustainable’
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-10-20T15:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/osborne-aims-for-maximum-tax-from-banks-without-driving-them-out-of-u-k-.html
The British government will require
financial services firms to pay the “maximum sustainable”
amount of tax without forcing them to leave the U.K., according
to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne .  The U.K. plans to raise more from a permanent bank levy
each year than was generated by the one-time bonus tax, Osborne
told members of the  House of Commons  while delivering his
 spending review  today.  “The permanent levy will raise more net each year and
every year for the Exchequer than the one-year bonus tax did,”
Osborne said. “We neither want to let banks off making their
fair contribution, nor do we want to drive them abroad.”  British-based banks are threatening to move abroad as taxes
rise and regulation tightens.  Barclays Plc  and HSBC Holdings Plc
said last month they may move headquarters if the government
decided to break up the banks.  Standard Chartered Plc  said in
August it may move from London if new taxes were imposed on
lenders.  “I’m all in favor of taxing banks more, but it’s very
unclear what Osborne actually means because all his comments
were heavily caveated with the suggestion that he won’t charge
more than is appropriate to make sure banks don’t leave the
country,” said  Richard Murphy , a U.K. accountant and director
of Tax Research LLP. “This is political gesturing.”  Bonus Tax  The government said in September it raised 3.5 billion
pounds ($5.5 billion) from a one-time 50 percent levy on
discretionary bank bonuses imposed by the last Labour
administration. The new levy will generate around 2.5 billion
pounds annually, higher in net terms than the bonus tax, the
government said today.  France and Germany said in June that they also proposed to
introduce a levy on bank balance sheets.  “Decisions taken today will have an effect on the whole
industry and particularly on overseas banks operating in the
City,” the  British Bankers’ Association  said in an e-mailed
statement today. “They are likely to look to their tax bills
and what is to be paid here and at home when deciding on their
future plans.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the most profitable U.S.
securities firm in history, said in July the U.K. bonus tax cost
it about $600 million, while JPMorgan Chase & Co. paid $550
million. Credit Suisse Group AG said it paid 447 million Swiss
francs ($463 million) for the tax, compared with 242 million
francs for UBS AG.  Tax Avoidance  Banks will have until the end of next month to sign a code
of conduct on tax avoidance, after Osborne discovered that 11 of
the U.K.’s top 15 lenders hadn’t signed up to last year’s
program, he said.  “We want the banks to pay not just by the letter of the
tax law, but by its spirit,” Osborne said.  HSBC and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  will sign, two people
familiar with the plans said earlier this week.  U.K. banks will avoid paying 19 billion pounds of tax on
future profits by offsetting their losses during the financial
crisis against their tax bills, a report published on Oct. 18 by
the  Trades Union Congress .  The five-member  FTSE 350 Banks Index  closed down 0.2
percent in London today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
 Jon Menon  in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  