-- Most Emerging Stocks Fall Led by Developers After China Increases Rates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-20T15:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/most-emerging-stocks-fall-led-by-developers-after-china-increases-rates.html
Most emerging-market stocks fell as
Chinese developers declined after the country unexpectedly
raised interest rates to curb inflation. Chipmakers rose on
speculation the outlook for prices is improving.  Guangzhou R&F Properties Co.  led China’s developers lower
on the expectation that higher rates will deter speculative
buying.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc.  led computer-memory chipmakers
higher after Korea Investment & Securities Co. recommended
investors buy the stock as the industry has neared its bottom.  About five stocks fell for every four that climbed, leaving
the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  0.4 percent higher at 1,102.21
at 11:10 a.m. in New York. The  Shanghai Composite Index 
fluctuated between gains and losses after the central bank
boosted benchmark one-year lending and deposit rates yesterday.  “The market’s worry is what kind of impact this will have
on growth,” said  Manpreet Gill , a Singapore-based strategist at
Barclays Wealth, which oversees $229 billion in client assets,
commenting on the rate increase.  Guangzhou R&F fell 5.3 percent and  Shimao Property Holdings
Ltd.  dropped 5.8 percent in Hong Kong.  Hynix, the world’s second-largest computer-memory maker,
gained 4.6 percent in South Korea.  Powerchip Technology Corp. , a
dynamic random access memory chip maker, rose 3 percent in
Taipei.  “We will start to see some positive signs for the DRAM
industry next year,”  Han Seung Hoon , an analyst at Korea
Investment & Securities Co., wrote in a note. “DRAM makers may
turn somewhat conservative in their investment plans,” which
should help stabilize chip prices.  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai. With assistance from  Camila Russo  in
New York,  Kristine Aquino  in Singapore and  Saeromi Shin  in
Seoul. Editors:  Reinie Booysen ,  Alan Mirabella   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  