-- Lloyds Says Two-Year Note Set for Reversal: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-10-20T13:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/lloyds-says-two-year-treasury-note-is-set-for-reversal-technical-analysis.html
Yields on two-year Treasury notes
are suffering “trend exhaustion,” and are poised to rise after
touching an all-time low, according to strategists at Lloyds
Banking Group Plc who study charts of trading patterns.  The yield on the two-year Treasury note touched a  record 
low of 0.327 percent on Oct. 12 amid speculation the Federal
Reserve is preparing for another round of debt purchases to
boost the tepid pace of economic growth. The yield, at 0.355
percent today, is down from 1.14 percent at the end of last
year.  “A significant reversal in the U.S. two-year note is now
imminent,” wrote London-based  Tim McCullough , technical
strategist at Lloyds Banking Group in a note to clients
yesterday. Monthly charts show “a pattern of medium-term trend
exhaustion, which was completed last month. Trend support is at
0.75 percent, but potential for more significant reversal
towards 2.8 percent long-term range support.”  McCullough recommended clients sell the note, with an
initial yield target of 0.75 percent, and a stop-loss at 0.25
percent or less on a weekly closing basis. Stop-loss orders,
automatically triggered when yields touch a preset level, are
commonly initiated when trades are placed in an attempt to limit
potential losses.  Yield support is an area on charts where buy orders may be
clustered, making further yield increases more difficult. At
yield resistance, sell orders may be clustered. Note prices and
yields move in opposite directions.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  