-- Toyota Takes on `Do or Die' With Attack on Suzuki in India
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-10-21T04:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/toyota-takes-on-do-or-die-cost-challenge-to-attack-suzuki-lead-in-india.html
Toyota Motor Corp. ’s new Etios
compact will be half the price of its cheapest model in India as
the automaker seeks to win share from  Maruti  Suzuki India Ltd.  The new car, also to be sold in China and Brazil, will be
priced in the range of market leader  Maruti ’s 405,300-rupee
($9,200) Swift compact,  Hiroshi Nakagawa , managing director of
Toyota’s India unit, said in an interview in Bangalore.  Maruti ’s
229,000-rupee Alto is the country’s best-selling car, accounting
for 13 percent of Indian auto sales.  “It has been a challenge to build quality at a lower
price,” Nakagawa said. “The Indian car market is one of the
toughest markets in the world. Customers and car owners are very
cost-conscious.”  The Etios highlights Toyota’s struggle to balance sales in
low-cost car segments in emerging markets without risking its
reputation for quality. The automaker is lowering costs for its
new model by increasing the amount of parts purchased in India,
with initially 70 percent locally sourced. Engine and
transmission production will also start in the nation in 2012.  “Bringing procurement cost to a very competitive level is
a do or die challenge for our procurement and production
teams,” Executive Vice President  Yukitoshi Funo  said in an
interview on Oct. 4.  ‘Premium Over Competitors’  The compact arrives as  Nissan Motor Co.  plans to sell a
$3,000 car in India in 2012 supplied by Bajaj Auto Ltd., the
country’s second-largest motorcycle maker. Tata Motor Ltd.’s
Nano, the world’s cheapest car, is priced at 131,331 rupees.  The Etios may also be more expensive than similarly
equipped models, such as  Hyundai Motor Co. ’s i10 compact, the
nation’s second best selling model, which sells from 365,559
rupees in Mumbai.  “We can charge a premium over competitors because of the
trust in the brand that Indians have in us,” said  Sandeep Singh ,
deputy managing director of Toyota Kirloskar Motor Ltd., said in
a separate interview last week.  Shares  in the Toyota City, Japan-based carmaker rose 0.9
percent in Tokyo trading to 2,913 yen. The stock has fallen 25
percent in 2010.  ‘Intense Pressure’  “Maruti will come under intense pressure from newer rivals
like  Ford , Volkswagen, Nissan and especially Toyota, which plans
to launch its Etios model,” Darius Lam, an analyst at J.D.
Power and Associates, wrote in a report yesterday.  In India, annual sales of the Alto and the  i10  both
exceeded deliveries of all Toyota models combined in 2009.
Toyota aims to grab 10 percent of the market in five to seven
years after selling an expected 70,000 units this year through
September. Maruti, the market leader, delivered 884,400 units
during the same period.  The Innova minivan is currently Toyota’s cheapest model in
India, starting at 826,433 rupees in Mumbai. The  Etios  will be
offered in sedan and hatchback versions.  Like the Innova and Swift models, airbags and anti-lock
brakes will not be standard features on the base model of the
Etios, Singh said. By law, seat belts are the only mandatory
safety feature in cars sold in India, according to  Deepesh Rathore , managing director for India at consulting company IHS
Automotive.  “Toyota has a respected brand name,” Rathore said. The
Innova and the discontinued Qualis models have been “outrageous
successes in India. They addressed niches no one had ever looked
at.”  Even so, the Etios’ conservative styling, compared with the
Swift, and Toyota’s lack of a widespread dealer network may
hamper sales, he said.  China, Brazi, Thailand  Variations on the Etios will also be sold in China, Brazil,
and Thailand, according to Funo, who calls the car “The 21st
century  Corolla ,” referring to Toyota’s best-selling car, which
has sold more than 24 million units since its introduction in
1963.  In China, its cheapest model, the Vios, is 23 percent more
expensive than  BYD Co. ’s best-selling 70,800 yuan ($10,650) F3
compact car. Sales of the Toyota brand in the country grew 1
percent in August, compared with 32 percent for market leader
 Volkswagen AG , according to J.D. Power & Associates.  Toyota is not alone in its struggle to balance quality and
performance with prices that appeal to the mass market.  Honda is planning to introduce a new small car in India
next year with a price of less than 500,000 rupees, the company
said in August.  “In India, compared with Japan, do we really need our cars
to go 180 kilometers as the maximum speed when the speed limit
is lower?” said Honda Motor Co. Executive Vice President  Koichi Kondo  on Oct. 8. “It’s that kind of revision in thinking. There
are things that you need and don’t need. But we won’t drop our
quality.”  For Toyota, it will take two years to establish the Etios
brand in India, Singh said. A car smaller than the Etios may
also be on the way, Rathore at IHS said.  “I don’t think it will be a game changer,” he said. “But
it’s definitely a major step in the right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  