-- Pacific Coffee to Target Starbucks With 1,000 Stores in China
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 2010-10-20T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/pacific-coffee-challenges-starbucks-to-latte-duel-with-1-000-china-stores.html
  China Resources Enterprise Ltd .,
owner of Hong Kong’s second-biggest coffee chain, plans to open
as many as 1,000 Pacific Coffee shops in China, challenging
Starbucks Corp. in a market growing by 20 percent a year.  The Chinese partner of  SABMiller Plc  will open 50-100
stores next year in  Shanghai , Shenzhen and other major cities
where there’s a “strong coffee culture,” Chief Financial
Officer Frank Lai said in an interview. Pacific Coffee now
operates 90 stores in  Asia .  Coffee consumption in China, which Starbucks expects to
become its second-biggest market, is expanding by 20 percent
annually, Japanese trading company Marubeni Corp. said last year.
State-owned China Resources will open coffee shops at its high-
end Ole hypermarkets, Lai said.  “Pacific Coffee may have the real-estate advantage because
it’s very hard to get the best locations for any companies at
this stage,”  Shaun Rein , managing director of China Market
Research Group, said in Shanghai. “The main target group is the
younger consumers who are seeking different chatting
environments as Starbucks are at all corners now.”  China Resources, which is the nation’s biggest beer brewer
and operates wine cellars in Hong Kong, has climbed 13.6 percent
this year in  Hong Kong  trading. That betters the 8 percent gain
in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  1,000 Stores  “Our challenge for Pacific Coffee is how to open 1,000
stores without compromising the quality,” Lai said yesterday.
“The first year we will be a bit slower. The second year we
will accelerate once the training center, logistic and supply
chain are all established.” Having 1,000 stores in China is a
long-term target, Lai said.  Starbucks has about 380 stores in China and plans to have
“thousands” there eventually, Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  said in April. China,  South Korea  and  Taiwan  will lead
coffee demand growth in Asia, and per-capita consumption may
rise to match that in Japan, roaster Key Coffee Inc. said in
March.  Per-capita consumption is estimated at 3.3 kilograms (7.3
pounds) a year in Japan, compared with just 22 grams per person
in  China , Key Coffee said.  Wine Cellar  China Resources may open its first wine cellar in China,
possibly in Shenzhen, within six months, Lai said. It’s looking
at boutique vineyard from different parts of the world, he said.  “Wine consumption is doing extremely well in China” as
consumers move away from local white liquor known as baijiu,
China Market’s Rein said. Red wine sales are expected to
increase by 20 percent in five years there, he said.  China’s retail sales climbed 18.4 percent in August from a
year earlier, after rising 17.9 percent in the previous month.  SABMiller and China Resources have said they will pursue
acquisitions and increase capacity in the world’s most-populous
nation. The London-based maker of Miller Genuine Draft and
Grolsch owns 49 percent of  China Resources  Snow, the nation’s
biggest beer brand by volume with 20 percent of the market.  “We’ve already bought a lot of small, Chinese local beer
brands,” Lai said. “The beer market still has more room for
consolidation.”  China Resources said in August it may spend as much as
HK$5.5 billion ($709 million) on acquisitions in retail, beer,
non-alcoholic beverages and food. Cash and bank balances as of
June 30 were HK$14.3 billion.  Net income climbed to HK$4.24 billion in the first half
from HK$1.16 billion a year earlier on surging growth at its
retail division, which has about 2,950 stores selling food,
jewelry and health products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Leung in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  