-- Palm Oil May Decline on Speculation October Demand Won't Cut Stockpiles
-- B y   C l a i r e   L e o w   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2010-10-20T06:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/palm-oil-may-decline-on-speculation-october-demand-won-t-cut-stockpiles.html
Palm oil, little changed, may fall
on speculation October export demand won’t reduce stockpiles.  The January-delivery contract paused at 2,922 ringgit ($935)
a metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange at the midday
break, after a seven-week rally.  Palm oil output typically rises in the second half, which
will boost stockpiles in Malaysia. A price of 2,500 ringgit a
ton “best reflects” the demand and supply of the tropical oil
used in foods and fuel,  James Fry , managing director of LMC
International, said at a conference in Kuala Lumpur today.  “We do expect the stock-usage ratio in Malaysia for palm
oil to increase in October and it’s a concern for palm oil
prices in the short term,” said  Ben Santoso , a plantation
analyst at DBSVickers Securities (Singapore) Pte. “There should
be some downside in the near term.”  For the first 20 days of October, Malaysia’s palm oil
exports climbed 4.2 percent to 944,700 tons, independent market
surveyor Intertek said in a preliminary estimate today. Exports
surged 21 percent in September to meet demand for the Muslim
festival of Eid and China’s mid-autumn festival, according to
official data from the Malaysian Palm Oil Board.  October “inventory will rise as the production is
increasing and at the same time there is no catalyst for fresh
demand,” Santoso said.  Malaysia Output  Palm oil  production in Malaysia , the second-biggest
producer after Indonesia, will rise in October compared with
September when there were fewer working days, analysts said.  Both countries have Muslim majority populations that marked
the largest Islamic holiday in September, reducing working days
and harvesting. Production fell 2.7 percent in September,
snapping a four-month increase, according to Malaysian Palm Oil
Board data.  Palm oil prices may come under pressure if Chicago soybean
prices fall, analysts including Santoso of DBSVickers said.  China resumed buying Argentine soybean oil this month,
which “could result in a shift of focus from Chicago soybeans,
and hence weigh on prices,” said a Phillips Futures Pte. report
today.  Malaysian palm oil is trading at a $110.36-a-ton discount
to Chicago soybean oil today, according to Bloomberg data, wider
than last week’s $100.48-a-ton average.  Higher palm oil production will widen its discount to
soybean oil, Fry said.  CME Group Inc.’s January palm oil contract, pegged to the
Malaysian benchmark price, was little changed at $931.25 a ton
at 12:24 p.m. It reached a record $960.50 on Oct. 18.  Palm oil on the Dalian Commodity Exchange for May delivery
dropped as much as 2.2 percent to 8,010 yuan ($1,204) a ton
before trading at 8,164 yuan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net 
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 