-- Pentagon Notifies U.S. Congress of Planned $60 Billion Arms Sale to Saudis
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-10-20T18:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/pentagon-notifies-u-s-congress-of-planned-60-billion-arms-sale-to-saudis.html
The U.S. Defense Department notified
Congress it wants to sell to Saudi Arabia up to $60 billion in
weapons to help confront threats from Iran and violent
extremists.  The proposed sale, which may be the largest to another
country in U.S. history if all purchases are made, includes
 Boeing Co.  F-15 fighter jets, attack helicopters and satellite-
guided bombs, according to notices sent to Congress today. It
also contains helicopters made by  United Technologies Corp.  and
advanced  radar  from  Raytheon Co.   Congress has until Nov. 20 to stop the sale before the
Defense Department and companies proceed into more detailed
talks with Saudi Arabia on contracts that, if executed, could
extend a decade. Congress will review the proposed sale during
its scheduled Nov. 15-19 post-election session.  The proposed sale “represents a powerful symbol of the
robust strategic relationship between the United States and
Saudi Arabia,”  Colin Kahl , deputy assistant secretary of
defense for the Middle East, said in an interview. He said he
Saudis instead could have bought equipment from Britain, France,
Russia or China.  The sale reflects a common view of threats facing Saudi
Arabia and the U.S. that undermine stability in the Middle East,
the world’s biggest oil-producing region. The Obama
administration has failed to persuade Iran to curb its missile
and nuclear programs, and militant groups, including those
linked to al-Qaeda, continue to operate in the region.  1992 Weapons Sale  Saudi Arabia’s last significant U.S. weapons purchase was
for 72 F-15s in 1992, a transaction valued at as much as $9
billion. The final installment of those planes was delivered in
November 1999. Saudi Arabia plans to upgrade and replace some of
its older aircraft with new purchases, so the overall number of
F-15s on the ground probably won’t increase, Kahl said.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil supplier, used F-15s
and Apache helicopters in late 2009 to fight Muslim Shiite
rebels who crossed the border from Yemen and seized territory
inside the kingdom.  Separately, Yemen is battling al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula, which is using its base in the country to carry out
attacks on Saudi Arabia and Western targets, such as a failed
December 2009 attempt to blow up a Detroit bound U.S. airliner.  Top Buyers  Saudi Arabia was among the top three buyers of U.S. defense
equipment and services in three periods examined by the
Congressional Research Service since fiscal 2001. Deliveries to
the kingdom topped the list in 2008, the latest year reported,
with a total value of $1.2 billion, ranking just ahead of
Israel.  The $60 billion estimated price tag for the new package is
“an upper limit” and “what they’re actually likely to spend
on this package will probably be somewhat less,” Kahl said.  The deal could be a signal to other  Gulf Cooperation
Council  nations, such as the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain,
Oman, Qatar and Kuwait, as they decide where to make their own
purchases, Kahl said. “That’s going to mean naval upgrades,
ballistic missile defense, upgrades to air defenses,” he said.  The Israelis haven’t opposed the sale, Kahl said. They
“agree that it is in our interests and in the region’s
interests for Saudi Arabia to have a close relationship to us,”
he said. “And they also are concerned about the threat
emanating from Iran.”  Israeli Edge  The U.S. has worked to ensure that Israel maintains a
“qualitative military edge” over other countries in the
region, Kahl said.  Israel isn’t asking Congress for any particular steps in
relation to the sale, such as hearings or assurances, because
any concerns were discussed with the administration, said
Jonathan Peled, a spokesman for the Israeli Embassy in
Washington, without detailing any reservations  “We’re not thrilled about it,” Peled said. Still, “we
have a good, continuous and close dialogue with the
administration and a strong, ongoing commitment to maintain
Israel’s military edge.’  Kahl said the Saudi F-15 package also doesn’t include “the
types of systems the Israelis would be most concerned about,”
such as weapons that can be fired from long distances and could,
under certain scenarios, threaten Israel.  Jets, Munitions  The  package  includes 84 new F-15s and upgrades to 70 more
that are already in the Saudi inventory, at a cost of $29.4
billion. Helicopter sales total about $31 billion, including
spare parts, training simulators, long-term logistics support
and some munitions.  Saudi Arabia would receive 1,000 versions of Chicago-based
Boeing’s satellite-guided Joint Direct Attack Munition “smart
bomb” system, which the kingdom first bought in 2008. It also
would get 400  Harpoon  anti-ship missiles and 600 Raytheon  HARM 
anti-radar missiles, which would be new to its arsenal.  The Saudis would like to have the initial squadron of 12 F-
15s delivered to a U.S. base for training as soon as the end of
2014, with the first aircraft arriving in Saudi Arabia in 2015,
Kahl said. The jets are comparable in capability to F-15s the
U.S. has sold to South Korea and Singapore, Kahl said.  The Saudis would buy about 72 UH-60 Black Hawk  helicopters ,
70 AH-64D Longbow Apache helicopters and 36 AH-6 Little Bird
gunships, Kahl said.  The Longbow is the U.S. Army’s premier anti-tank
helicopter, capable of firing laser-guided or all-weather radar-
guided air-to-ground Hellfire missiles. The Saudi package
includes 640 laser-guided versions. The Longbows are in addition
to 12 that Congress in 2008 cleared Boeing to sell to the
Saudis.  The aircraft and choppers would be powered by General
Electric Co. F-110 and T700 engines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
 Viola Gienger  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  