-- Persian Gulf Bankers See Fee Squeeze as Companies Dictate Terms
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-10-21T10:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/persian-gulf-bankers-see-fee-squeeze-as-companies-dictate-terms.html
Banks in the Persian Gulf are
settling for lower fees as competition for bond sales
intensifies.  Bond transactions in the six-member Gulf Cooperation
Council are recovering after concerns Dubai World, the state-
owned holding company, would default on $24.9 billion in debt
raised loan costs for businesses, deterring borrowing. Banks led
by  HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Standard Chartered Plc  advised on $9.4
billion of Gulf bond sales in the third quarter, the most since
the last three months of 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said it may manage
$7 billion to $10 billion of Gulf bond sales this quarter.  “Fees are very, very low,”  Albert Momdjian , Dubai-based
head of investment banking for the Middle East and North Africa
at Credit Agricole SA, said in an interview. “You see some
crazy banks every now and then coming in aggressively. They just
go and undercut everyone to get onto the league tables.”  The weighted average of disclosed fees banks charge for
emerging market mandates declined this year to 28 basis points
from 30 basis points in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is equal to 0.01 percentage point.  HSBC, the top adviser on bond sales in the Gulf Cooperation
Council region for the past two years, cut fees on emerging-
market debt to 28 basis points from 36 basis points, the data
show. The region includes Saudi Arabia, the U.A.E, Kuwait,
Bahrain, Oman and Qatar. HSBC’s profit in the U.A.E., the
London-based lender’s biggest market in the Middle East, fell 59
percent in the first half from a year ago to $126 million. An
HSBC spokesman in Dubai declined to comment.  U.S. Fees  The fees for bond sales in emerging markets can often be
lower than those in the U.S. The weighted average of disclosed
fees banks charge for emerging market bond mandates is 28 basis
points this year, compared with 37 basis points in the U.S.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The pace of borrowing is picking up in the Gulf. Dubai’s
government raised $1.25 billion in a two-part bond sale Sept.
29, getting orders of about $5 billion after roiling markets
last year as it sought to delay debt. Qatar Telecom QSC, Dubai
Electricity & Water, HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd. and Arab
Petroleum Investments Corp. issued $5.8 billion in debt this
quarter, while  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , Abu Dhabi
Islamic Bank PJSC, Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and Doha Bank QSC are
among those mulling bond sales.  ‘Competition Will Increase’  “The ball is in the companies’ court right now, so they
can pick and choose on whom they want to lead their issues,”
said  Louis Najem , fixed-income sales trader at Dubai’s Rasmala
Investment Bank Ltd. “The competition will increase going
forward, due to the fact that there is renewed market interest
from” international investors.  Gulf bond issuance more than doubled to $38 billion last
year after sinking to $15 billion in 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Only one bond was issued last year after
Dubai World’s announcement on Nov. 25, according to Bloomberg
data. Dubai World’s delay helped cut new debt issuance in the
first quarter this year to $3.7 billion.  “There are more players in the debt capital market
business and the market is definitely more competitive since
liquidity and access have improved,” said  Abdul Kadir Hussain ,
chief executive officer of fixed-income fund manager Mashreq
Capital DIFC Ltd. in Dubai “Fees for the large, liquid, well-
known deals are likely to get tighter.”  Standard Chartered  Standard Chartered, with $2.9 billion of deals, is the
second-largest underwriter in the region, while Deutsche Bank
AG, the 17th-ranked adviser on bond sales in the Gulf two years
ago, vaulted to third place this year, according to Bloomberg
data. Germany’s biggest lender has advised on 10 bond deals
valued at $2.2 billion this year, according to the data. A
Standard Chartered spokeswoman in Dubai and a Deutsche Bank
spokesman in Frankfurt declined to comment.  Credit Agricole, which jumped to the ninth-ranked adviser
on bond sales in the Gulf, was one of the managers on Dubai
Electricity & Water Authority’s $2 billion bond sale earlier
this month. The Paris-based bank has a “healthy pipeline” of
bond mandates in the future, Momdjian said.  Fees for Gulf bond issuers can range from 15 basis points
to 50 basis points, depending on the financial strength of the
company or government, the size of the offering and the
potential business that may come with the deal, according to
three bankers with knowledge of the transactions. Bond mandates
can open the door for other business such as interest-rate
hedging, foreign-exchange hedging and merger deals, so banks are
willing to take lower fees.  Islamic Bonds  In a country such as Saudi Arabia, where many deals are
privately placed, companies are now returning to sell bonds.
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., known as Aramco, the world’s largest
state-owned oil company, and Total SA hired Credit Agricole to
sell sukuk, or Islamic bonds, valued at $1 billion this year.  Another Saudi Arabia-based issuer, Islamic Development
Bank, plans to sell $1 billion of sukuk this quarter to fund
construction projects. The Jeddah-based bank hired CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd., the world’s largest sukuk arranger, Citigroup
Inc., HSBC and Standard Chartered to manage the sale, two people
with knowledge of the issuance said last week.  “If you look at Saudi Arabia, people don’t pay fees,”
Momdjian said. “But you have to be in Saudi.
We have to do it at any price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net ;
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  