-- Peru Sells U.S. Dollar Certificates After Copper, Gold Rebound Boosts Sol
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-10-20T20:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/peru-sells-u-s-dollar-certificates-after-copper-gold-rebound-boosts-sol.html
Peru’s central bank sold
certificates of deposit redeemable in U.S. dollars for the first
time after rising copper and gold prices fueled demand for
soles.  The sol strengthened 0.1 percent 2.7910 per U.S. dollar at
3:54 p.m. New York time, from 2.7950 yesterday. That’s the
currency’s biggest gain in two weeks.  The central bank sold 100 million soles ($35.8 million) of
the certificates yielding an average 3.02 percent, the bank said
on its  website . The bank announced the new securities this month
in an attempt to give investors a way to benefit from rising
Peruvian interest rates without increasing demand for the sol.  “The trend for the sol is going to be one of appreciation
because of capital inflows,” said  Gonzalo Camargo , head of
investments at Lima-based AFP Horizonte. “The pressure on the
dollar is going to continue and the central bank is going to
keep buying dollars” to temper the sol’s appreciation.  Foreign capital inflows attracted by Peru’s rising interest
rates have pushed the sol up 3.5 percent against the dollar this
year. In response, the central bank has bought almost $9 billion
this year and raised banks’ reserve requirements four times
since June to ease gains in the currency.  The central bank didn’t  buy or sell dollars  in the foreign
exchange market today. It last bought dollars a week ago.  Copper and gold, Peru’s biggest exports, rebounded from the
biggest drop in three months after the dollar slid as much as
1.4 percent, boosting demand for commodities as alternative
investments. The metals fell yesterday after China raised
borrowing costs for the first time since 2007, spurring a rally
in the dollar.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 8.6 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2017 rose 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 4.83 percent, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local
unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  