-- Peugeot 2010 Profit to Top Forecast After Quarterly Sales Jump
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-10-20T11:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/peugeot-citroen-raises-2010-target-predicts-profit-exceeding-2-billion.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, raised its full-year forecast after
reporting a 10 percent increase in quarterly sales that beat
analysts’ estimates.  Third-quarter  revenue  advanced to 13 billion euros ($18
billion), exceeding the 12.3 billion-euro average estimate of
seven  analysts  compiled by Bloomberg. Full-year recurring
operating profit will top an earlier forecast of 1.5 billion
euros, and the automotive unit will break even in the second
half, Peugeot said in a statement today.  Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Varin  is expanding
operations in China, Russia, Brazil and Argentina, pledging to
generate half its sales outside Europe by 2015, compared with
one-third. Europe’s auto market will decline 5 percent this
year, while visibility for 2011 remains “low,” Peugeot said.  “We always said that 2010 would be the floor for the
European market,” Chief Financial Officer  Frederic Saint-Geours 
said on a conference call. “Order books remain solid” for the
fourth quarter.  Peugeot  rose  as much as 77.5 cents, or 2.8 percent, to
28.20 euros and traded at 28.11 euros as of 1:02 p.m. in Paris.
Before today, Peugeot had  gained  16 percent this year, compared
with a 10 percent increase in Renault SA. Volkswagen AG,
Europe’s largest carmaker, had risen 38 percent.  Faurecia Slumps  “The outlook remains relatively subdued as European
markets struggle to gain positive momentum again post-scrappage
incentives,”  Jose Asumendi , an analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland in London, wrote in a note, adding that Peugeot already
reported 1.2 billion euros in first-half adjusted operating
profit. The guidance is “already built into consensus.”  For this year, savings will exceed 1.1 billion euros that’s
part of a three-year plan, the CFO said. Rising raw material
prices will cost the carmaker 200 million euros in the second
half, he said.  Faurecia SA , Europe’s largest maker of car interiors that’s
controlled by Peugeot,  slumped  as much as 7.1 percent. One
Equity Partners, a fund unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co., sold a 13
percent stake in the parts maker in a share placement to
investors at 18.20 euros a share. Peugeot is the largest
shareholder with a holding of about 57.4 percent.  “We want to maximize the value of our stake in Faurecia,
and we have no magic figure for our stake,” Saint-Geours said.
“What we intend to do is to remain the main shareholder of
Faurecia, and support Faurecia’s development.”  Market Share  European governments countered the economic slump last year
with consumer incentives to buy new cars and scrap old ones.
Demand has sagged as the subsidies have been progressively
withdrawn, leading to a 9.2 percent decline in the region’s
September registrations, according to the Brussels-based
European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association.  The Peugeot and Citroen brands increased their combined
European market share by 0.6 percentage point to 13.5 percent in
the first nine months, as the incentive-fueled jump in demand
for smaller vehicles helped sales of their C3 Picasso minivan
and 207 small car.  Third-quarter sales at the automotive unit rose 2.3 percent
to 9.47 billion euros as deliveries increased 2.6 percent to
808,400 vehicles.  In contrast with Renault CEO  Carlos Ghosn , who forecast
European demand will contract by a further 2 percent next year,
Varin has also said he expected the regional market to “bottom
out” this year and begin recovering in 2011.  Varin is also leading efforts to broaden alliances with
other carmakers, including an engine-sharing deal with
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s biggest maker of luxury
cars.  Faurecia this week raised its 2010 targets after quarterly
sales climbed 44 percent, lifted by the company’s emissions-
control business and increasing demand in North America and
Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  