-- Peugeot Citroen Raises 2010 Operating-Profit Goal as Sales Beat Estimates
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-10-20T05:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/peugeot-s-quarterly-revenue-climbs-10-beating-estimates-outlook-raised.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, said quarterly revenue rose 10 percent,
beating estimates, and raised its outlook for the full year.  Revenue  advanced to 13 billion euros ($17.9 billion) from
11.8 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
today in an e-mailed statement. Analysts had predicted sales of
12.3 billion euros, the average of seven estimates. Revenue at
the Faurecia SA unit, Europe’s largest maker of car interiors,
increased 44 percent to 3.27 billion euros.  Peugeot said today its full-year operating profit will
exceed an earlier forecast of 1.5 billion euros. Chief Executive
Officer Philippe Varin is expanding operations in China,
Russia, Brazil and Argentina, pledging to generate half its
sales outside Europe by 2015, compared with about one-third.  Varin is also leading efforts to broaden alliances with
other carmakers, including an engine-sharing deal with
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s biggest maker of luxury
cars.  European governments countered the economic slump last year
with consumer incentives to buy new cars and scrap old ones.
Demand has sagged as the subsidies have been progressively
withdrawn, leading to a 9.2 percent decline in the region’s
September registrations, according to the Brussels-based
European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association.  The Peugeot and Citroen brands increased their combined
European market share by 0.6 point to 13.5 percent in the first
nine months, as the incentive-fueled jump in demand for smaller
cars helped sales of their C3 Picasso minivan and 207 small car.  Europe’s auto market will decline 5 percent this year,
Peugeot predicted today. CEO Varin had predicted as recently as
Sept. 30 that the region’s industry-wide sales would decline 7
percent in 2010.  In contrast with Renault SA CEO  Carlos Ghosn , who forecast
European demand will contract by a further 2 percent next year,
Varin also said he expected the regional market to “bottom
out” this year and begin recovering in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France, at   aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  