-- Pick n Pay Profit Declines Amid `Weak' Spending by South African Consumers
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-20T15:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/pick-n-pay-profit-drops-amid-weak-recovery-in-south-african-consumer-spend.html
Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. , South
Africa’s second-largest grocer, said first-half profit plunged
40 percent after a weak recovery in consumer spending and a loss
at the Australian unit, which it’s selling.  Net income declined to 354.3 million rand ($51 million) in
the six months through August, or 75 cents a share, compared
with 586.5 million rand, or 1.24 rand, a year earlier, the Cape
Town-based company said in a stock-exchange statement today.
Sales advanced 6 percent to 25.2 billion rand.  Inflation at a four-year low and a slow recovery in
consumer spending following last year’s  recession  undermined
food sales, the company said. Pick n Pay is in the process of
selling its Australian unit, Franklins, which made a first-half
operating loss of A$11.3 million ($11.1 million), compared with
a profit of A$1.8 million a year earlier.  “The next six months are going to be much the same,” Pick
n Pay Chief Executive Officer  Nick Badminton  said in an
interview in Johannesburg. “Personal debt is still there.
People have tightened their belts and are continuing to do so.”  Shares in Pick n Pay fell 18 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
42.51 rand, giving the retailer a market value of 20.4 billion
rand. The stock is down 4.9 percent in the past six months,
compared with a 29 percent gain for rival  Shoprite Holdings
Ltd. , which posted a 15 percent sales increase during the six
months through June.  Badminton, speaking at a presentation to analysts in
Johannesburg today, declined to comment on possible market-share
losses.  Margin Target  The retailer is planning to improve its information-
technology systems, cut costs and centralize the distribution of
goods as part of a three-year plan to boost “efficiency” at
the company, he told analysts. Its target is to raise the profit
margin to 5 percent from 2.8 percent, he said.  Pick n Pay may face greater competition if  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. , the world’s biggest retailer, succeeds with a $4.6 billion
bid to buy  Massmart Holdings Ltd. , the country’s biggest
wholesaler of food and general goods. The other major food
retailers in South Africa are  Spar Group Ltd.  and  Woolworths
Holdings Ltd.   “Massmart is already a formidable competitor,” Badminton
said. “The market with Shoprite, Spar and Woolworths is quite
competitive. As strong as a competitor as Wal-Mart is, so are
the others.”  New African Stores  The entry of Wal-Mart may spur Pick n Pay to accelerate its
cost-cutting plans, Badminton said. The U.S. retailer will
probably introduce changes such as “much better purchasing on
general merchandise” and “a different way of working with
suppliers,” he added.  “Competition is always healthy,” Badminton said. “It
doesn’t worry me to that extent.”  Pick n Pay is selling its Australian business in favor of
Africa, where rivals Shoprite and Massmart have expanded. Pick n
Pay plans to open another four stores in Zambia after opening
its first one in the capital, Lusaka, in July, it said in the
statement. Over the next year, the retailer also plans to open
supermarkets in Mauritius, Malawi and Mozambique.  Pick n Pay hasn’t resolved a wage dispute with  workers ,
which may add to costs, Badminton said. Strike action hurt
September sales, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  