-- Pictet Says Funds of Hedge Funds `Aren't Dead' After Inflows This Year
-- B y   W a r r e n   G i l e s
-- 2010-10-20T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/pictet-says-funds-of-hedge-funds-aren-t-dead-after-inflows-this-year.html
Pictet & Cie., Switzerland’s biggest
closely held private bank, said net inflows of $340 million into
its funds of hedge funds business this year show the asset class
still appeals to investors.  “Funds of funds aren’t dead at Pictet,”  Nicolas Campiche ,
head of the bank’s alternative investments unit, said in an
interview in London. “We live and die by performance and risk
so the interests of the manager and client are aligned.”  Pictet’s funds of hedge funds business managed $8.2 billion
on behalf of clients at the end of September, said Campiche,
making it the fourth biggest by assets in Switzerland, after UBS
AG, Union Bancaire Privée and Credit Suisse Group AG.  Assets in funds of funds in Geneva, which helped pioneer
the industry in the 1960s, slumped 71 percent between the end of
2007 and May this year as local money managers struggled to
restore investor confidence after losses of about $7 billion to
 Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme. Pictet, the biggest private bank
in Geneva, wasn’t affected by Madoff’s fraud.  Funds of funds, which earn fees by picking a portfolio of
hedge funds for clients, recorded $250 million in new money
globally in the three months through September, said Chicago-
based Hedge Fund Research Inc. That was only the second time in
nine quarters that clients added assets. Single-manager funds
attracted a net $19 billion of new capital in the third quarter,
the most since the end of 2007, Hedge Fund Research said.  Fund Performance  Funds of funds lost an average of 21 percent in 2008 before
returning about 11 percent last year, according to Hedge Fund
Research. They rose 2.1 percent in the year through September.  Pictet’s  Mosaic  fund, which has more than $1 billion in
assets, gained 1.6 percent in the first nine months of this
year, after posting an 11.2 percent return in 2009 and a 15.2
percent decline in 2008. The fund also posted negative returns
in 1998.  “We’ve had absolute performance almost every year,” said
Campiche. “We’re not proud of 2008 but we made all our
redemptions without gates or side pockets, which makes a hell of
a difference today in attracting new money.”  Pictet, founded in the wake of the French Revolution in
1805, had total client assets of 252.9 billion Swiss francs
($262 billion) at the end of June. That included 120 billion
francs at the bank’s asset management business.  At least eight Geneva-based institutions, including UBP,
Banco Santander SA’s Optimal Investment Services, Genevalor
Benbassat & Cie., Hyposwiss private bank, Banque Benedict
Hentsch & Cie., and Notz, Stucki & Cie., reported Madoff-related
losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Warren Giles  in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  