-- Pimco Says U.S. Economy Will Disappoint With 1.75% Growth
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-20T03:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/pimco-says-u-s-economy-will-disappoint-with-1-75-growth.html
The U.S. economy will disappoint
investors by expanding at a rate of 1.75 percent over the next
year, said  Ramin Toloui  at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s biggest bond fund.  The risks are skewed toward even slower growth, Toloui, an
emerging markets portfolio manager, said on a conference call.
Growth will fall short of the consensus forecast, which is 2.6
percent for the year ahead, according to Pimco. Investors should
add to their emerging-market holdings, Toloui said.  “We’re still seeing a tentativeness in the financial
sector to take risk” in the U.S., said Toloui, speaking from
Pimco’s head office in Newport Beach, California. “The overall
alignment of facts point toward a much more cautious conclusion
about the trajectory of the U.S. economy.”  Toloui spoke as Federal Reserve officials debate whether to
increase the central bank’s Treasury purchases to stimulate the
economy. China raised borrowing costs yesterday for the first
time since 2007, sparking speculation the decision will slow one
of the engines of the global economic expansion.  Emerging markets will outperform developed ones because
they have lower levels of debt, greater capacity to expand
private demand and bigger infrastructure needs that will require
government investment, according to Pimco.  “This doesn’t suggest a golden age for emerging markets,”
Toloui said. “Emerging-market growth will be impaired by
difficulties in the industrial world.”  ‘Stable’ China  China’s central bank lifted its benchmark one-year lending
rate to 5.56 percent from 5.31 percent. The  deposit rate  was
increased to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent.  “Stimulus and credit growth is now being reduced as China
tries to take the edge off of exuberance in real estate and
other asset markets,” Toloui said. “That’s being done in a
measured way that we think will transition to more stable rates
of growth in China.”  China contributed about 1.75 percentage points to global
gross domestic product growth during the deepest part of the
financial crisis and the recovery in the first half of 2009,
Pimco estimates. The crisis, which threw the U.S. into an 18-
month recession starting in December 2007, resulted in $1.82
trillion of losses and writedowns at banks and financial
companies worldwide.  U.S. Debt Holdings  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said yesterday the U.S.
central bank would need to buy securities on a large scale
several times to carry out his preferred strategy of increasing
inflation temporarily. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 15
that that there appears to be a “case for further action.”  Forecasts for Fed purchases pushed the U.S. two-year yield
to a record low of 0.327 percent on Oct. 12. The rate was little
changed at 0.36 percent as of 12:13 p.m. in Tokyo, according to
BGCantor Market Data.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond  fund  at
 Pimco , cut  holdings  of U.S. government-related debt in
September, according to the company’s  website . The $252 billion
 Total Return Fund ’s investment in government debt fell to 33
percent of assets from 36 percent the previous month.  Pimco’s emerging-market  holdings  climbed one percentage
point to 12 percent, the highest in data going back to 2000 on
the company’s website. Pimco is increasing its focus in emerging
markets such as India, China and Brazil, Douglas Hodge, the
chief operating officer, said on Oct. 14.  The Total Return Fund handed investors a gain of almost 12
percent in the past year, beating three-quarters of its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer Allianz SE, managed
$1.1 trillion of assets as of June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 