-- Textron Posts Quarterly Net Loss After Liquidating Canadian Finance Assets
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-10-20T20:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/planemaker-textron-posts-loss-after-liquidating-canadian-financial-assets.html
Textron Inc. , the maker of Cessna
planes and Bell helicopters, said it had a third-quarter net
loss after liquidating Canadian finance assets.  The net loss was $48 million, or 17 cents a share, compared
with net income of $4 million, or 1 cent, a year earlier,
Textron said today in a statement. Sales fell 2.7 percent to
$2.48 billion. Analysts had projected $2.61 billion, on average,
in a Bloomberg survey.  Cessna  cut 700 jobs last month, after slicing its workforce
in half to about 8,400, because orders haven’t improved along
with the economy. Cancellations are slowing and the unit will
probably be profitable in the fourth quarter as deliveries rise,
executives said on a conference call with investors.  Textron, based in Providence, Rhode Island, is offsetting a
drop in cash from manufacturing by speeding up liquidation of
its finance unit. Chief Executive Officer  Scott Donnelly  has
said Cessna’s sales typically pick up about eight quarters after
corporate profits return.  The business-jet recovery has now moved “to the right” by
six to nine months, Donnelly said today. Aerospace supplier
Honeywell International Inc. said this week that its annual
survey of corporate flight departments shows the recovery may
take longer than forecast, not starting until late 2011.  Textron dropped 16 cents to $20.78 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 10
percent this year.  Excluding some items, third-quarter profit was 13 cents.
Ten analysts  estimated  11 cents on average in a Bloomberg
survey.  Excluding an 8 cent tax benefit, adjusted full-year
earnings will be 62 cents to 67 cents a share, the company said.
That’s more than the 58 cent average projected by analysts. In
July, Textron increased its prediction excluding special charges
to a range of 55 cents to 65 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  