-- Plosser Says He's `Less Inclined' Than Colleagues to Accelerate Inflation
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-10-20T20:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/plosser-says-he-s-less-inclined-than-colleagues-to-accelerate-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said he’s not as likely as some fellow
central bankers to favor a policy aimed at lifting the inflation
rate.  “I am less inclined to want to follow a policy that is
highly concentrated on raising inflation and raising inflation
expectations,” Plosser told reporters today after a speech in
Philadelphia. He said he’s “less concerned about deflation
risks than some of my colleagues.”  Policy makers are debating a second round of large-scale
purchases of Treasuries to combat unemployment and increase an
inflation rate that some on the Federal Open Market Committee
see as too low. Three regional Fed bank presidents yesterday
reinforced the idea that policy makers will resume asset
purchases as the Nov. 2-3 meeting.  While unemployment is a “terrible problem,” Plosser said,
“it’s less obvious to me that it’s amenable to monetary-policy
solutions at this point.”  The dollar slid the most against the euro since July and
reached a 15-year low versus the yen amid speculation the
Federal Reserve will pump more cash into the economy.  The dollar today lost 1.7 percent to $1.3960 versus the
common currency, and sank to as low as 80.85 yen.  The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  increased 1.3 percent to 1,181.18 at 3:21 p.m.
in New York after slumping 1.6 percent yesterday.  Plosser, who will vote on monetary policy next year, said
recent declines in the dollar reflect, in part, expectations of
future inflation.  Inflation Concerns  The “dollar is falling for a couple of reasons, primarily
in my view is that they’re worried about inflation,” he said.  “If inflation in the United States picks up, as some
policy makers have suggested it should, that would send the
dollar down,” Plosser said in response to audience questions
after his speech. He also cited the economy’s  slower growth  as a
reason for the weakening dollar.  Separately, the Fed said the economy expanded at a “modest
pace” in September and early October with little sign of
accelerating and companies still hesitant to hire.  Eight Fed banks, including San Francisco and Chicago,
reported some form of growth, the Fed said today in its Beige
Book business survey by the 12 regional banks, released two
weeks before each meeting of central bank policy makers. The
Philadelphia and Richmond Fed banks said their economies were
“mixed” while the Cleveland region “held steady” and the
Atlanta district “remained slow” with falling retail sales.  Benefits Versus Costs  Plosser said he doubts the benefits of further monetary
easing would outweigh the costs and steps that have little
effect on the economy risk damaging the central bank’s
credibility.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, the core personal
consumption expenditures index, has risen at 1.4 percent on a
year-over-year basis in June, July and August -- lower than the
1.7 to 2 percent rate of inflation that Fed officials favor over
the long term.  Plosser joins Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and
Minneapolis’s  Narayana Kocherlakota  in questioning whether
further easing will be effective.  Evans, Lockhart  Chicago’s  Charles Evans , Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart  and New
York’s  William Dudley  have made remarks bolstering the case for
further easing. Although Evans and Lockhart do not vote on
monetary policy this year, these three have aligned in prior
decisions with Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said Oct. 15
that that there appears to be a “case for further action.”  In his prepared remarks, Plosser said the U.S. still needs
better-designed financial regulation, even after the Congress
passed the most sweeping set of financial rules since the 1930s.  “Instead of more regulation, we need better-designed
regulation that recognizes incentives and tries to address moral
hazard so that market discipline can work,” Plosser said.  Plosser, 62, a former professor and business-school dean at
the University of Rochester in New York, joined the Philadelphia
Fed as its chief in 2006. Fed presidents rotate voting on the
FOMC with Plosser voting next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Philadelphia at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  