-- Polish Property Lures Investors With Better Returns Than London
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-10-20T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/poland-may-raise-rates-after-inflation-touches-bank-s-target-chart-of-day.html
European real-estate investors are
lining up to do deals in a market where they can find better
returns than in London, Paris or Berlin: Warsaw.  Commercial-property sales in Poland almost quadrupled in
the first nine months of 2010 from a year earlier to 1.45
billion euros ($2 billion), according to New York-based  Real
Capital Analytics . The former communist country was the only
European Union economy  to avoid a recession  last year.  “If I had only one country in Europe in which to put my
money, it would be Poland,” said  Martyn McCarthy , chief
executive officer in Europe for Sydney-based  Valad Property
Group . Valad manages a fund owning six Polish industrial sites.  Property investors fled what were perceived as more risky
countries in the former Soviet bloc, including Poland, during
the financial crisis. While that led to lower prices in Warsaw,
the scale of the decline was closer to western European cities
than those in the East, encouraging investors to return.  Prime Warsaw office values fell 25 percent to 30 percent
from mid-2007 to a year ago, Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. estimates.
They have since rebounded more than 10 percent. In parts of
central London, prices have recovered about 22 percent since
August 2009, following a 50 percent slump in the previous two
years, according to Investment Property Databank Ltd.  “Poland has behaved more as a core market than in the past,
when it was like any other fragile east European country,” said
John Duckworth, managing director for central and eastern Europe
at Chicago-based  Jones Lang .  Investors Return  Overseas investors drive Poland’s real estate market, since
local pension funds are prohibited from owning property and
domestic money managers lack the money to purchase large, new
office complexes and malls. Property sales in the country fell
to 770 million euros last year from more than 5 billion euros in
2006, Real Capital Analytics data show.  Unibail-Rodamco SE  and Commerz Real AG are among companies
that have bought in Poland this year as the country’s growth
prospects boost optimism that rents and building values will
increase. Poland accounted for more than half the investment in
central and eastern Europe in the third quarter, according to
property broker  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc .  Poland’s economic expansion may almost double this year to
3.4 percent, or twice the rate for the 16-nation euro region,
according to European Commission estimates. Annual growth
averaged 4.6 percent since 2003.  Spending by Poland’s 38 million
inhabitants  increased 3 percent in the second quarter.  ‘Probably Do More’  “If there are opportunities, we will probably do more” in
Poland, Hans-Joachim Kuehl, head of acquisitions at  Commerz Real ,
said in an interview at Munich’s Expo Real trade fair earlier
this month. His company, Germany’s third-largest property
mutual-fund manager, bought the Harmony Office Center in Warsaw
in June for 56 million euros.  First Property Group Plc, a U.K. commercial property fund
manager, announced earlier this month that it plans to raise a
100 million-pound ($159 million) fund to invest mainly in Poland.  Unibail-Rodamco, Europe’s largest real estate investment
trust, bought the Arkadia and Wilenska shopping malls in Warsaw
in February. Union Investment Real Estate AG purchased the
Lipinski Passage office and shopping center for about 35 million
euros and the Horizon Plaza business complex for 103 million
euros this year.  Weaker property values lifted capitalization rates for
prime Warsaw offices, or rental income as a proportion of a
building’s purchase price, to about 7.5 percent a year ago from
5.5 percent at the peak in early 2007, Jones Lang estimates.  Better Than London  The increased investment demand in Warsaw, an office market
that’s a fifth the size of Stockholm’s, helped drive the rate
down 1 percentage point in the past year to about 6.5 percent.
At 1 to 2 percentage points more than for prime properties in
London, Paris or Berlin, Poland’s rate is still attractive,
buyers said.  “Everyone looks to Poland for better yields,” said
 Barbara Knoflach , CEO of Frankfurt-based SEB Asset Management AG,
which paid 93 million euros in March for the Trinity Park III
office building in Warsaw. “The Poland story is a mixture of
its size and the belief that it will become one of the more
important countries in Europe.”  With all the recent deals, investors looking to profit from
substantial gains in Warsaw property prices may have already
missed the boat, according to  Lars Ohnemus , CEO of Copenhagen-
based  BPT Asset Management A/S . His fund’s last purchase in
Poland was in 2008.  Warsaw ‘Is Over’  “The Polish story is over as such” in Warsaw, he said at
a seminar at the Expo Real fair. “Going into the smaller cities,
there’s a significant risk down the road.”  Stefan Brendgen , head of  Allianz SE ’s German and central
Europe real estate investment arm, said he’s now considering
looking in larger regional cities such as Krakow, Lodz and
Wroclaw after losing out in bids for several Warsaw properties.  More investors are looking further afield in Poland as
multinational companies set up offices and factories in regional
cities, drawn by a cheaper, skilled workforce. Poznan, Katowice,
the Tricity area and Lodz have become hubs for outsourcing,
service centers and research and development, JLL’s Duckworth
said.  Deutsche Bank AG’s RREEF bought the Grunwaldzki Center in
Wroclaw, Poland’s fourth-largest city, for 77 million euros in
July. Tenants include Banco Santander SA, Credit Suisse Group AG
and Hewlett-Packard Co.  Beyond the Capital  Resolution Property Plc bought the Galeria Pomorska, a
shopping center in Bydgoszcz, in May for 51 million euros.  The government is improving the country’s rail and highway
network, partly in anticipation of the increase in tourism in
2012, when Poland co-hosts the European soccer championships.  “The top four cities are absolutely interesting for
investment,” said  Franz Jurkowitsch , CEO of Vienna-based
developer  Warimpex Finanz & Beteiligungs AG , at the Expo Real
seminar.  His company opened a four-star hotel in Katowice in March
and wants to expand into budget hotels. It’s also building the
Le Palais office building in Warsaw and a shopping center in
Bialystok and refurbishing a building in central Krakow.  There are still lingering concerns about the risk of owning
too much property in Poland.  “When the zloty is exchanged for the euro will be the true
test of when Poland is a core market,” said SEB Asset
Management’s Knoflach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  