-- Porsche Sued by Viking Global Investors in Volkswagen Takeover Dispute
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-22T22:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/porsche-has-sold-all-500-of-the-911-gt2-rs-sports-cars-it-plans-to-produce.html
Porsche SE  was sued by Viking Global
Investors over claims the automaker’s attempted takeover of
Volkswagen AG was an illegal stock fraud scheme that cost the
hedge fund at least $390 million.  The complaint against  Porsche , filed today in federal court
in Manhattan, follows a similar lawsuit by U.S.-based short
sellers of VW stock who claim the sports-car maker secretly
cornered the market in VW shares in 2008 and later cost them
more than $1 billion in losses.  Viking took short positions on  VW shares  believing the
stock was overpriced, and relying on Porsche’s public assurances
in 2008 that it didn’t own or intend to acquire a controlling
interest in VW, according to the suit.  “Unbeknownst to Viking or the market, at least as early as
March 2008, Porsche was taking steps to corner the market in VW
shares as part of an effort to secretly take control of VW,”
the New York-based fund claims in the suit. “Through careful
market manipulation and false statements, Porsche convinced
investors to believe that the VW shares were overvalued,
inducing them to enter into short sales of VW shares.”  Due to Porsche’s “stranglehold” on the VW shares, short
sellers lost about $38.1 billion in less than one week and
Viking lost at least $390 million in two days, according to the
complaint.  Heiner von der Laden, a  Porsche  spokesman, wasn’t
immediately available for comment after business hours.  Merger Steps  Volkswagen , based in Wolfsburg, Germany, and Europe’s
largest carmaker, agreed to join with Porsche in August 2009
after the 911 sports-car maker’s debt tripled to more than 10
billion euros ($14 billion) following its failed bid to buy VW
by securing stock through options trading. VW has since bought
 49.9 percent  of Porsche’s operating unit for 3.9 billion euros,
setting the stage for a merger in 2011.  A previous suit against Porsche, based in Stuttgart,
Germany, was filed in January by Elliott Associates LP, Glenhill
Capital LP, Glenview Capital Partners LP and other short
sellers.  VW’s merger with Porsche is also being hampered by
negotiations with German tax authorities over the tax-exempt
status of profits from Porsche’s options transactions.  The case is Viking Global Equities LP v. Porsche Automobil
Holdings SE, 10-08073, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 