-- Pound Climbs Against Dollar, Weakens Versus Euro as Osborne Cuts Spending
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-20T16:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/pound-weakens-against-euro-before-bank-of-england-minutes-spending-review.html
The pound rose against the dollar
and weakened versus the euro after U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  detailed his plan to almost eliminate
the nation’s 156 billion-pound ($246 billion) budget deficit.  Sterling extended gains versus the U.S. currency and
recovered some of its declines against the euro. Osborne’s plan
eliminates half a million public-sector jobs, imposes a levy on
banks and cuts spending by 81 billion pounds over five years.
Bank of England minutes published earlier showed policy makers
starting to lean toward more bond purchases to shore up the
recovery. Britain’s budget deficit for September jumped.  “You can’t have those kinds of austerity measures and have
a tight monetary-policy stance at the same time without putting
the economy in danger of very, very severe slowdown,” said
 Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. in London. “Sterling is telling us that there was
nothing unexpected in the review. Investors on the whole will
applaud what the government is doing.”  The pound climbed 0.9 percent to $1.5851 as of 4:41 p.m. in
London, rebounding from its weakest level in almost a month.
Sterling weakened 0.8 percent to 88.08 pence per euro, after
depreciating as much as 0.9 percent after Osborne’s speech.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King ,
split three ways as a majority voted to maintain the key
interest rate at 0.5 percent and bond purchases at 200 billion
pounds. Some members “felt the likelihood that further monetary
stimulus would become necessary in order to meet the inflation
target in the medium term had increased in recent months,” the
minutes said.  ‘Sterling Negative’  The minutes are “dovish and therefore a sterling
negative,” said Derrick. “We also saw record public borrowing
for September, showing us the scale of the problems we are
facing.”  The U.K.’s net borrowing for September was 15.6 billion
pounds, the most for the month since modern records began in
1993, compared with 14.8 billion pounds a year earlier, the
Office for National Statistics said in London today. The median
of 13 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was a deficit of 14.5
billion pounds.  Gilts rose, with the yield on the two-year gilt falling
three basis points to 0.61 percent, and the 10-year bond yield
declining 2 basis points to at 2.99 percent.  Split MPC  Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  pushed for an increase in the
key rate to 0.75 percent, while  Adam Posen  voted to boost the
Bank of England’s asset-purchase plan, known as quantitative
easing, by 50 billion pounds.  “Most members felt that the balance of risks had not
altered sufficiently to warrant a change in the policy stance at
this meeting,” according to the minutes.  Osborne’s plans would narrow a deficit that the government
forecasts at 10.1 percent of gross domestic product this year to
2.1 percent of GDP in the 2014-15 fiscal year. Debt interest
costs would fall by more than 5 billion pounds by 2015.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  yesterday said defense
spending will be cut by 8 percent in inflation-adjusted terms.  The pound has dropped 5.2 percent this year against a
basket of its developed-country peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the second-
worst performing currency, after the euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  