-- Qtel 3rd-Quarter Net Falls 8.3% Amid Domestic Competition
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-10-20T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/qtel-3rd-quarter-net-falls-8-3-amid-domestic-competition.html
Qatar Telecom QSC , the Persian Gulf
country’s biggest company by revenue, posted an 8.3 percent
decline in third-quarter profit amid increased competition in
its home market.  Net income  for the three months to Sept. 30 fell to 651.9
million riyals ($179 million) from 710.9 million riyals a year
earlier, Qtel said in an e-mailed statement today.  “This period’s performance illustrates our ability to
overcome challenges, capitalize on opportunities, and deliver
meaningful returns for our shareholders,” Chairman  Abdullah bin Mohammed Al  Thani said in the statement.  Increased competition at home is driving Middle Eastern
telephone companies such as Qtel and Emirates Telecommunications
Corp. of the United Arab Emirates to expand into markets in Asia
and Africa.  Qtel, which offers communication services in 17 countries,
may purchase additional foreign operators amid fewer growth
opportunities domestically, Chief Executive Officer  Nasser Marafih  said in May. The company’s revenue in Qatar fell to 4
billion riyals in the first nine months of the year from 4.3
billion a year earlier, Qtel said in the statement today.  The company lost its local monopoly when  Vodafone Qatar , a
venture between Vodafone Group Plc and state-controlled Qatar
Foundation, began offering services last year.  Qtel’s revenue rose 16 percent to 6.89 billion riyals
during the quarter, the company said in today’s statement. Its
customer base stood at 68.9 million at the end of September, up
30.6 percent from a year earlier, the company said.  Qtel stock dropped 1.1 percent on the Qatar Exchange today.
The third-quarter results were announced after the market
closed. The share price has risen 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  