-- Rangers Beat Yankees 10-3, Move Within One Win of World Series
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-10-20T06:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/rangers-defeat-yankees-10-3-with-four-home-runs-giants-beat-phillies-3-0.html
The New York Yankees are on the
brink of elimination from the American League Championship
Series, and probably will be missing one of their top
players as they try to overcome a 3-1 deficit to the Texas
Rangers.  The Rangers moved within one win of their first trip
to the World Series by hitting four home runs in a 10-3
victory last night over the defending champions, who lost
 Mark Teixeira  to a hamstring injury.  Game 5 is scheduled for today at Yankee Stadium, where
pitcher  CC Sabathia  will start for the Yankees against the
Rangers’  C.J. Wilson . The ALCS would return to Arlington,
Texas, for the final two games, if necessary.  “Win and then you go from there,” Yankees manager
 Joe Girardi  said. “It’s a very tough-minded group in there
and they have bounced back a lot, not just this year, but
in their careers. We have to find a way to get it done.”  Bengie Molina ’s homer off  A.J. Burnett  in the sixth
inning erased a 3-2 deficit for Texas at Yankee Stadium.
The Rangers then added five runs over the final three
innings against the Yankees’ bullpen, as  Josh Hamilton  hit
two solo home runs and  Nelson Cruz  added a two-run shot.  The Rangers have a Major League Baseball-best 15 home
runs in nine games this postseason. Since baseball went to
a best-of-seven format for the LCS in 1985, 24 of 30 teams
with 3-1 leads have advanced to the World Series.  “We’re not thinking about how we’re going to close
anyone out,” Rangers manager  Ron Washington  said in a news
conference. “We’re going to go out there and play baseball
and whatever the game asks us to do, we’re going to do it.
If it happens, it happens.”  Giants Lead Phillies  The San Francisco Giants beat the Philadelphia
Phillies 3-0 in yesterday’s first game for a 2-1 lead in
the National League Championship Series.  Matt Cain  allowed
two hits over seven innings to send the Phillies to their
first postseason shutout since the 1983 World Series.  Game 4 of the NLCS is set for tonight in San
Francisco, with  Joe Blanton  scheduled to start for the
Phillies against 21-year-old Giants rookie  Madison Bumgarner .  After scoring single runs in the second, third and
fourth innings to stake Burnett to a 3-2 lead, the Yankees
missed a scoring chance in the fifth, when they had two
runners on base with no outs. Teixeira had to be helped off
the field after straining his hamstring while running to
first base on a force play, and didn’t return to the game.  “He said he felt something pop,” Girardi said.
“Barring some miracle, he won’t be playing with us.”  Molina Homers  Burnett then couldn’t hold the lead in the sixth
inning, serving up Molina’s two-out homer one pitch after
an intentional walk to  David Murphy . While reliever  Joba Chamberlain  had warmed up in the bullpen, the Yankees
stayed with Burnett, who put his hands atop his head after
Molina’s blast sailed inside the left-field foul pole.  “We liked the way A.J. was throwing the ball all
night,” Girardi said. “We liked the matchup.
Unfortunately it didn’t work out.”  The Rangers added two runs in the seventh, as Hamilton
hit a two-out homer off  Boone Logan  and  Vladimir Guerrero 
doubled off Chamberlain and scored on  Ian Kinsler ’s single.
Hamilton hit another homer against  Sergio Mitre  in the
ninth.  The Yankees failed to score in the eighth inning after
loading the bases with one out and have now lost three
straight ALCS games for the third time in franchise
history.  Shades of 1958  This is the third time the Yankees have trailed 3-1 in
a best-of-seven series and the first time since the 1958
World Series, when they rallied to beat Milwaukee in seven
games.  Texas’s five-game road winning streak this postseason
is the longest since the Boston Red Sox won six in a row in
the 2007-08 postseasons.  In San Francisco, Cain shut down the defending
National League champions and outpitched  Cole Hamels , who
had won all four of his previous postseason road starts for
the Phillies.  The game was scoreless until the fourth inning, when
 Cody Ross  and  Aubrey Huff  delivered run-scoring singles off
Hamels.  Ross, a midseason castoff of the Florida Marlins, now
has seven postseason runs batted in and was serenaded by
chants of “Co-dy, Co-dy” from San Francisco fans.  Ross hit two home runs off  Roy Halladay  in San
Francisco’s 4-3 win in the series opener and another off
 Roy Oswalt  in the Phillies’ 6-1 win in Game 2.  “He’s been battling and hitting pitches that most
normal people can’t hit at this time,” Hamels said of
Ross. “When guys are hot, they can hit anything.”  Fifth-Inning Score  The Giants made it 3-0 in the fifth when  Aaron Rowand 
doubled and scored on a two-out infield single by  Freddy Sanchez . The Phillies had two men on base in the third,
fourth and seventh innings. None of those baserunners
reached third base.  “When you don’t score no runs, you don’t get no hits,
it’s hard to win the game,” Phillies manager  Charlie Manuel  said during a news conference.  Philadelphia, which has a .203 batting average in the
playoffs, had scored at least one run in its previous 49
postseason games dating back to the  final game  of the 1983
World Series against Baltimore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  at Yankee Stadium in New York at 
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net 
 Rob Gloster  at AT&T Park in San Francisco at 
1397 or  rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  