-- RBC Unit Fined by Finra in U.K. Over Sales of Reverse Convertible Notes
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-10-20T17:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/rbc-unit-fined-by-finra-in-u-k-over-sales-of-reverse-convertible-notes.html
Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC Wealth
Management  unit will pay $690,000 to resolve a brokerage
regulator’s claims that a U.S. unit sold unsuitable financial
products to elderly clients and others with modest net worth.  Ferris, Baker Watts Inc., which was acquired by RBC in
2008, failed to supervise brokers who sold so-called reverse
convertible notes to about 2,000 retail investors from 2006 to
2008, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said today.
The company also failed to monitor the accounts to ensure they
properly reflected customers’ needs, Finra said in a statement.  Regulators have increased scrutiny of financial products
after retirees and pension funds claimed losses on investments
they didn’t understand. Reverse convertibles are structured
notes that pay set interest rates generally higher than those of
corporate bonds, while giving issuers the right to repay
investors with shares if the underlying stock plummets.  “Reverse convertible notes are complex investments that
often entail significant risk of loss and also involve terms,
features and risks that can be difficult for retail investors to
evaluate,”  James Shorris , Finra’s acting enforcement chief,
said in the statement. The sales to elderly customers and those
with “modest assets” were “unsuitable,” he said.  In one instance, Ferris, Baker Watts sold an 86-year-old
retired social worker five reverse convertibles for $10,000
each, making up 25 percent of her portfolio, Finra said. The
firm also sold five reverse convertibles to a 20-year-old clerk
who was earning less than $25,000 a year, the regulator said.  RBC Wealth Management, without admitting or denying Finra’s
allegations, agreed to pay a $500,000 fine and about $190,000 in
restitution to 57 account holders, the Washington-based
regulator said.  A call to RBC wasn’t immediately returned.  Banks have sold $5.3 billion of reverse convertibles to
U.S. investors this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. RBC has sold about $474.2 million of the notes this
year, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 