-- Treasury Bonds Advance as Beige Book Fails to Quell Speculation on Easing
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-10-20T20:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/treasuries-remain-higher-as-fed-beige-book-shows-modest-pace-in-recovery.html
Treasury  30-year bonds rose as a
Federal Reserve regional survey showing a “modest pace” in the
economic recovery failed to quell speculation that policy makers
will increase asset purchases to spur inflation and employment.  Yields  on the longest-maturity U.S. securities touched the
lowest level since Oct. 14, reversing an earlier rise, as the
dollar slid against most major currencies on bets the central
bank will pump more money into the economy in a tactic called
quantitative easing. Ninety percent of respondents to a
Citigroup Inc. survey said they expected an easing announcement
at the Fed’s Nov. 2-3 meeting.  “The Beige Book was more upbeat, but the economy is still
weak and there were no clues as to what asset purchases will
look like,” said  James Combias , New York-based head of Treasury
trading at Mizuho Financial Group Inc., one of 18 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “The market will have to wait
to get more answers regarding QE. Until then, the market will
stay bid and in a range.”  The  yield  on the so-called long bond fell two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.89 percent at 4:56 p.m. in New
York, according to BGCantor Market Data. It slid as low as 3.87
percent. The 3.875 percent security due in August 2040 gained
13/32, or $4 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 22/32. The benchmark
 10-year note yield  was little changed at 2.48 percent after
declining to 2.45 percent and earlier rising to 2.59 percent.  ‘Held Steady’  Eight Fed banks, including San Francisco and Chicago,
reported some form of growth, according to the survey by the 12
regional banks, which is released two weeks before a meeting of
central bank policy makers. The Philadelphia and Richmond Fed
banks said their economies were “mixed,” while the Cleveland
region “held steady” and the Atlanta district “remained
slow” with falling retail sales.  “It’s hard to get excited about comments about the economy
with continued weakness in the economy and continued lack of
inflation,” said  Thomas Simons , a government debt economist in
New York at primary dealer Jefferies Group Inc. “Market
participants are of the mind that the Fed is still going to buy
some amount of Treasuries, and no one is in the position to
fight the Fed if they don’t agree with them, and that’s keeping
the market bid.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 15 there’s a case
for additional stimulus because inflation is too low and
unemployment too high. The  jobless rate  was 9.6 percent last
month. Inflation, measured by central bankers’ preferred gauge
of the personal consumption expenditures price index, minus food
and energy, rose 1.4 percent for the 12 months ended in August.
The Fed’s preferred inflation range is 1.7 to 2 percent.  Inflation Expectations  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and
comparable TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices, widened to 2.06 percentage points today from this year’s
low of 1.47 percentage points in August. The five-year average
is 2.10 percentage points.  Policy makers completed purchases of about $1.7 trillion of
debt in March to support the recovery, including $300 billion in
Treasuries in 2009. While a second round of quantitative easing
is considered likely by many investors, there has been little
indication from policy makers as to how much they will buy.  “The Beige Book was particularly beige this month, with no
great surprises one way or the other,”  David Ader , head of
government bond strategy at Stamford, Connecticut-based CRT
Capital Group LLC, wrote in a note to clients. “In and of
itself, we’d not say this nails the coffin of QE, but does
nothing to detract from it, either.”  Stocks rose, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index climbing
1.1 percent. The greenback fell against 15 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts, dropping to a 15-year low of 80.85 yen.  Treasuries Beat Stocks  Treasuries have returned 9 percent this year, according to
a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index, exceeding the 5.7 percent
gain in the S&P 500.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold U.S. 10-year notes
over benchmark German bunds narrowed to 1.45 basis points, the
least since November 2009. It was 89.6 basis points in April,
the most in four years.  The Treasury will sell $97 billion in two-, five- and
seven-year notes next week, the smallest monthly offering of the
securities since February 2009, according to the average
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 of the Fed’s primary
dealers, which are required to bid at the auctions.  The U.S. will auction $35 billion in two-year notes, $34
billion in five-year notes and $28 billion in seven-year
securities, according to the survey. It will also sell $9
billion in five-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities,
dealers forecast. Sale sizes will be announced tomorrow.  Near Record  The  difference  between Treasury 5- and 30-year yields was
2.8 percentage points, near the record of 2.83 percentage points
set on Oct. 18. The spread has been widening on speculation the
Fed will concentrate its purchases on medium-term notes and the
stimulus will ultimately result in quicker inflation.  The Fed bought $660 million of Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities due from July 2013 to April 2032, according to a
statement from the New York Fed, as part of a program to
reinvest principal payments on its mortgage holdings. The
central bank has purchased $55.7 billion of U.S. securities
since it began the program on Aug. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  