-- Treasuries Hold Two-Day Gain as Fed Prepares to Buy, China Raises Rates
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-20T01:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/treasuries-hold-two-day-gain-as-fed-prepares-to-buy-china-raises-rates.html
Treasuries held a two-day rally as
the Federal Reserve prepared to buy government securities today
and China’s decision to raise interest rates increased demand
for the safest assets.  Two-year yields were near a record low after three Federal
Reserve officials reinforced speculation that policy makers will
boost their Treasury purchases as soon as their next meeting in
November, a move investors are calling QE2. The Fed is scheduled
to buy Treasury Inflation Protected Securities due from January
2011 to February 2040 today, according to its  website , as part
of its efforts to spur the economy.  “U.S. QE2 is a done deal,” said  Hideo Shimomura , who
helps oversee the equivalent of $61.4 billion in Tokyo as chief
fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit of
Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank. “Yields will go down.”  The benchmark 10-year note  yielded  2.48 percent as of 9:57
a.m. in Tokyo, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
2.625 percent security due in August 2020 traded at a price of
101 9/32. The rate declined nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, over the past two days.  Two-year notes yielded 0.36 percent, versus the record of
0.3270 percent set Oct. 12.  The Fed purchased $300 billion of Treasuries in 2009 under
a policy known as quantitative easing, or QE. The central bank
announced in August it would reinvest principal payments from
its holdings of mortgage debt in Treasuries.  Preferred Strategy  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said yesterday the
central bank would need to buy securities on a large scale
several times to carry out his preferred strategy of aiming to
raise inflation temporarily.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said in a CNBC
interview that a pace of $100 billion of purchases a month is
“in the range of numbers one might consider.”  William Dudley , New York Fed president and vice chairman of
the central bank’s policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee,
said his Oct. 1 assertion that officials will probably need to
add  stimulus  “still stands.”  While Evans and Lockhart don’t have FOMC votes this year,
all three presidents have aligned in prior decisions with Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said Oct. 15 that that there
appears to be a “case for further action.”  Treasuries rose yesterday as stocks dropped after China’s
unexpected increase in interest rates discouraged demand for
riskier assets.  “The market has had a cautious risk-off position, which
has boosted the dollar and made less-risky assets like
Treasuries more favorable,” said  Eric Lascelles , chief rates
strategist and economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit in Toronto.  China’s central bank yesterday lifted the benchmark one-
year lending rate to 5.56 percent from 5.31 percent. The  deposit
rate  was increased to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 1.6 percent, the
biggest slide since Aug. 19. The dollar rose as high as $1.3698
per euro today, the strongest in two weeks.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 