-- Rice Prices May Extend Rally as Floods Cut Harvest 20% in Biggest Exporter
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-10-20T09:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/rice-prices-may-extend-rally-as-floods-cut-harvest-20-in-biggest-exporter.html
The worst floods in four years in
Thailand, the world’s biggest rice exporter, may cut production
from the nation’s main crop by up to 20 percent, likely
extending a rally in prices, an industry group said.  “Production may fall by about 15 to 20 percent from last
year to less than 20 million tons,” Banjong Tungjitwattanakun,
vice president of the Thai Rice Mills Association, said in an
interview. Output from last year’s main crop was 23.3 metric
million tons, according to the Agricultural Economics Office.  Crop damage in Thailand comes amid production losses caused
by storms and flooding in Pakistan and the Philippines, cutting
global supplies. Rice prices in Chicago have surged about 45
percent from this year’s low on June 30, driven by rising demand.  “Potential supply losses could drive  Thai rice  up by
around $20 to $30 a ton, shoring up global prices,” Banjong
said by phone. Prices may peak in early November, when buyers
return to the market as harvests start, he said.  Thai rice, the benchmark price for Asia, has gained 11
percent from this year’s low in July and was at $510 a ton today,
according to the Thai Rice Exporters Association.  Rough rice in Chicago gained for a seventh day, climbing as
much as 1.2 percent to $14.08 per 100 pounds at 5:30 p.m. in
Singapore. The price yesterday rose to $14.20, the highest level
since Feb. 22.  Flood Damage  Key growing areas in Thailand’s central, northern and
northeastern provinces were affected by the floods, said Banjong.
Some mills have been deluged, damaging stockpiles, he said.  Thailand produces two rice crops a year, with the main crop
harvested from late October to April accounting for about 75
percent of the country’s output.  Thai rice exports this year will probably reach a target of
8.5 million tons, Commerce Minister  Porntiva Nakasai  said in
Bangkok today.  Heavy rains and flash floods inundated 24 provinces since
the beginning of October, damaging 1.7 million rai (0.7 million
acres) of farmland, including 1.3 million rai of rice, according
to Farm Minister  Theera Wongsamut . After the waters recede, the
ministry will assess the damage, he said in a statement. Floods,
which have killed 11 people since Oct. 10, remain in four
provinces, the Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation
said in a statement today.  Deadliest Floods  The Philippines, the world’s largest importer, may lose
600,000 tons of rice after Typhoon Megi struck some of the
nation’s biggest producing areas, Agriculture Undersecretary
Antonio Fleta said Oct. 18.  Pakistan’s deadliest floods last month ruined crops worth
281.6 billion rupees ($3.27 billion), destroying 2.39 million
tons of rice, Farm Minister  Nazar Muhammad Gondal  said Sept. 28.
Pakistan was the world’s third-biggest exporter last year.  Rice production in the U.S., the fourth-biggest exporter,
may be at least 10 percent smaller than estimated, missing a
forecast for record output and pushing prices to as high as $17
per 100 pounds, Dwight A. Roberts, president of the U.S. Rice
Producers Association, said Oct. 12.  A La Nina weather event this year has brought heavier-than-
usual rainfall to parts of Australia and Asia, including
Thailand. The weather event will intensify around the end of the
year, Thailand’s Meteorological Department has said.  Expectations that rice prices may rise as floods cut
production drove gains in the shares of Thai rice producers
Patum Rice Mill & Granary Pcl and Thai Ha Pcl.  Patum Rice , the nation’s biggest publicly traded rice
packager, gained as much as 2.2 percent to 69 baht before
closing at 68.5 baht, the highest finish since April 2008.  Thai
Ha  jumped as much as 6.5 percent to 6.6 baht.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  