-- Roach Coaches Go Upscale as D.C. Wagons Deliver Shrimp, Poutine
-- B y   H a   C h a n
-- 2010-10-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/roach-coaches-go-upscale-as-d-c-chuck-wagons-deliver-shrimp-3-cupcakes.html
Tennis star  Venus Williams  hired
Taco Boy for her house-warming in Los Angeles. Adrian Grenier
and his fellow “ Entourage ” stars were served on the set by
Baby’s Badass Burgers.  Food trucks, once derisively called roach coaches, are now
a hot culinary item. These mobile food servers have celebrity
clients, as well as a cult following that includes thousands of
fans on Twitter and Facebook.  Websites such as  http://www.roaminghunger.com  track food
trucks from Los Angeles to Washington, D.C. The modern chuck
wagons are the stars of “ The Great Food Truck Race ,” a Food
Network reality show hosted by celebrity chef  Tyler Florence ,
who plans to get his own food truck rolling later this year.  Washington trucks hawk Indian, Korean, Mexican and Fusion
fare, not to mention gourmet pizza, sandwiches and sweets. There
are about 20 food trucks in the nation’s capital, and four more
are slated to hit the streets by the end of the year.  To find their hangouts, I searched
 http://www.foodtruckfiesta.com , which bills itself as “a real-
time automated D.C. food truck tracker.” During three weeks of
tastings, I sampled food from five trucks in various parts of
the city.  Lobster Rolls  I started with  Red Hook Lobster Truck , which was parked a
few blocks away from my office. By 11 a.m. there were already
about 30 people waiting in line. During the 20 minutes I waited
for my lobster lunch fix, the crowd swelled to more than 100.  Red Hook sells lobster rolls, shrimp rolls and whoopie
pies. My friend and I each bought a lobster roll ($15), which
was served in a chewy, butter-drizzled bun.  Co-owner Leland Morris said the trucks are currently
selling 250 pounds of lobster and 40 pounds of shrimp per week.
There are plans to roll out a second truck next year.  My next stop was the bright pink  Sweetbites  truck, which
serves cupcakes, muffins, scones and cookie bars that cost
between $2 and $3. The company was started by Sandra Panetta in
May after she retired as a biochemist for the Environmental
Protection Agency. She invested $200,000 to build a commercial
kitchen and customize her truck.  By the time I got there late on a Friday afternoon, only a
handful of cupcakes were left. I ordered a chocolate coconut, a
bittersweet chocolate ganache and a heavenly pina colada treat
that included nuggets of pineapple and coconut topped with a
citrus frosting.  Nutty Carrot Cake  Curbside Cupcakes , run by lawyer Sam Whitfield III and his
fiancee Kristi Cunningham, sells light fluffy cupcakes ($3) with
so much frosting that it sticks to the inside of the carry-out
bag. The classic vanilla fell apart when I tried to cut it, but
the carrot cake was delicious, full of walnuts and carrot
slivers perfectly accented by the cream-cheese frosting.  Sauca  serves flatbread sandwiches ($7.50) stuffed with your
choice of chicken, sausage, fish, pork, beef and vegetables. The
Mexican-style fish mixed with beans and pickled slaw was tasty,
though the fish was slightly overcooked.  Since they were out of side dishes, I decided to try  Eat
Wonky , which specializes in poutine ($5.50), an artery-clogging
Canadian dish of French fries topped with cheese curd and gravy.
Eat Wonky also serves hot dogs and grilled-cheese sandwiches.  Indian Food  If you’re in the mood for affordable Indian food,  Fojol
Bros . serves plenty of delicious dishes for under $10. The
brainchild of former Obama campaign workers Justin Vitarello and
Peter Korbel, the truck offers $3 dishes such as buttered
chicken with chick peas and eggplant, served over basmati rice.  The portions were huge and the sauces are seasoned to have
a slight kick without making you sweat like you’re in a sauna.  (Ha Chan works in the Washington, D.C. bureau of Bloomberg
News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ha Chan in Washington at 
 hchan6@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 