-- Rooney Wants to Leave United on Concern It Won't Strengthen Playing Squad
-- B y   C h r i s   E l s e r
-- 2010-10-20T18:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/rooney-wants-to-leave-united-on-concern-it-won-t-strengthen-playing-squad.html
Wayne Rooney  said he wants to leave
Manchester United because he’s concerned about the 18-time
English soccer champion’s ability to sign new players.  Rooney met with United Chief Executive Officer  David Gill 
last week, according to a statement from the player cited by the
U.K.’s Press Association.  “He did not give me any of the assurances I was seeking
about the future squad,” Rooney said in the statement. “I then
told him that I would not be signing a new contract.”  Rooney said he owes coach  Alex Ferguson  “a huge debt,”
even after the pair’s recent disagreements. Ferguson yesterday
said the England forward told him he wants to leave the club, a
three-time European champion.  “For me it’s all about winning trophies, as the club have
always done under Sir Alex,” Rooney said. “Because of that I
think the questions I was asking were justified.”  U.K. media reports linked Rooney with billionaire-owned
Manchester City, one of the few English clubs that might be able
to afford the player. City manager  Roberto Mancini  said his club
hasn’t contacted Rooney and there has “never” been contact
between the two sides.  “Rooney is a great player but I think he’ll stay at
United,” Mancini said today at a press conference. “He is a
United player. It’s not correct to speak about” possibly
signing Rooney, he added.  City Package  The Daily Mirror reported yesterday that City is ready to
put together a 100 million-pound ($157 million) package for
Rooney. The club would pay 50 million pounds as a transfer fee
and pay him another 50 million in wages over four years. Today,
the Daily Telegraph said Chelsea would offer 20 million pounds
for the player, knowing that Ferguson doesn’t want to sell him
to City.  Rooney has struggled this season, scoring just one goal,
after injuries and media reports about his personal life limited
his playing time. He’s had disagreements with Ferguson, and
failed to score at this year’s World Cup, when England crashed
out against Germany in the round of 16.  The forward was taken off in the 60th minute in the last
game he started, against Bolton on Sept. 26, and sat out the
next two games because Ferguson said he was injured.  “The player says he’s adamant, he wants to leave,”
Ferguson said yesterday. “We have to deal with the next part of
that, as best we can. I can do no more than what we’ve said and
done at the moment.”  Contradiction  Rooney contradicted his manager after playing in England’s
0-0 draw with Montenegro on Oct. 12, saying he “didn’t know”
why Ferguson thought he was injured. The coach said he wanted to
rest the striker, who hasn’t scored for United in open play
since March, when he got the club’s goal in a 2-1 Champions
League loss to Bayern Munich.  Rooney came on as a substitute in a home draw with West
Brom four days ago as United lost a 2-0 lead, drawing 2-2.  The 24-year-old has been under media scrutiny because of
allegations about his personal life. Ferguson left him out of a
Sept. 11 game at former club Everton rather than subject him to
potential fan abuse and said yesterday that he told Rooney he
must “honor and respect the club’s traditions.”  “I have never had anything but complete respect for
MUFC,” Rooney said. “How could I not have, given its fantastic
history and especially the last six years in which I have been
lucky to play a part?”  Rooney left his boyhood team Everton to join United for 27
million pounds in 2004. He scored a hat-trick against Fenerbahce
in the Champions League in his first game for his new club,
making him the first United player in 99 years to get three
goals in his debut.  Rooney was hurt in practice yesterday and won’t play in
tonight’s Champions League match against Bursaspor of Turkey.
He’s scored once this season for the club, a penalty in a 3-0
defeat of West Ham in August, and has 132 goals in 289
appearances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  