-- Rubber Slumps as China's Rate Increase Raises Concern Demand May Weaken
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-10-20T08:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/rubber-slumps-as-china-s-rate-increase-raises-concern-demand-may-weaken.html
Rubber slumped after China raised
borrowing costs for the first time since 2007, boosting
speculation demand from the world’s largest user may weaken.  The most-active contract on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
lost as much as 3.1 percent to 328 yen per kilogram ($4,031 a
metric ton) before settling at 335.2 yen. The price reached 343
yen on Oct. 15, the highest level since July 2008.  China’s central bank yesterday raised the benchmark one-
year lending rate to 5.56 percent from 5.31 percent and the
 deposit rate  to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent as policy makers
attempt to curb lending and prevent an asset-price bubble. The
move comes days before Group of 20 officials gather in South
Korea to discuss the global economy amid disagreements over
whether the yuan is undervalued.  “Rubber pulled back as news on China and the U.S. mortgage
problems were coming in,”  Felix Yeo , trading manager at the
Singapore unit of Marubeni Corp., said by phone today.  “The action may curb expansion in Chinese demand for raw
materials,”  Hisaaki Tasaka , an analyst at Tokyo-based broker
ACE Koeki Co., said today by phone. “The news also triggered
sales as the market was ripe for profit-taking after a rally.”  Before today, rubber futures in Tokyo had gained 7.8
percent this month, heading for the best monthly performance
since February.  March-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange fell
as much as 2.8 percent to 30,845 yuan ($4,632) a ton before
closing at 31,785 yuan. The contract reached a record 33,000
yuan yesterday.  Asian stocks  extended a global sell-off as China’s rate
increase raised concern that the economic recovery may slow.
Thirteen of the 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last
month forecast that lending rates would stay unchanged this year.
Central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  on Oct. 8 signaled that
bank reserve requirements and bill sales were sufficient tools
to control inflation.  Taken by Surprise  “The Chinese rate hike took the market by surprise,” said
 David Taylor , a market analyst at CMC Markets Ltd.  In the cash market, auctioned price of RSS-3 grade rubber
for shipment in November dropped 0.3 percent to 112.19 baht
($3.74) a kilogram today as the Chinese rate hike sparked
worries that the economy of the world’s largest natural rubber
buyer may slow, according to the Rubber Research Institute of
Thailand. Limited supply will support prices, the institution
said.  A severe drought in Yunnan at the beginning of this year
and torrential rains this month in Hainan, the top two producing
areas in China, will reduce domestic rubber output, according to
Guo Cheng, an analyst at Yongan Futures Co.  Natural-rubber imports by China, the world’s largest user,
jumped 19 percent from a month earlier to 190,000 tons in
September as the nation’s  passenger-car sales  to dealerships
quickened from August on additional incentives for buyers.  Wholesale deliveries of passenger cars rose 19.3 percent to
1.21 million, accelerating from 18.7 percent in August, the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said Oct. 12.  Dealers stepped up discounts in China, the world’s largest
auto market, after passenger-vehicle sales growth slowed from
April amid government efforts to cool the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  