-- Russia to Join WTO `Well Before' a Year From Now, Summers Says in Moscow
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-10-20T14:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/russia-to-join-wto-well-before-a-year-from-now-summers-says-in-moscow.html
Russia will probably join the World
Trade Organization within a year even as the largest economy
outside the trade arbiter has yet to complete talks with other
member countries,  Lawrence Summers  said.  “We are certainly hopeful that well before 12 months from
now the process will have been completed,” Summers, the
departing director of the U.S. National Economic Council, told
reporters in Moscow after meeting with officials including First
Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  and Kremlin adviser  Arkady Dvorkovich . “I can now say that the end is in sight.”  An accord with the U.S. may help complete Russia’s 17-year
bid to join the  153-member, Geneva-based body  after President
 Dmitry Medvedev  signed an agreement with President  Barack Obama 
in June to resolve contentious issues by the end of September.
Negotiators met the deadline “on the main issues of
principle,” Summers said today.  Medvedev is seeking to diversify the economy of the world’s
biggest energy exporter to lessen its dependence on oil, gas and
metals. Obama wants to build a relationship with Russia that can
withstand strains over security disputes and broaden the markets
for U.S. companies.  While the two countries didn’t sign a new agreement today,
the U.S. “will be in a position to be supportive of the Russian
initiative” to join the WTO, Summers said.  Customs Union  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  initially made joining the
WTO a priority during his first presidential term in 2000. Last
year, he said Russia would abandon its national bid and pursue a
joint membership as a  customs union  with Belarus and Kazakhstan.  Russian officials have since said the three former Soviet
republics will submit national bids and seek to join separately
after forming a coordinated position. There is no precedent for
negotiating a joint WTO accession.  “We don’t anticipate that the customs union will be an
obstacle,” Summers said. “After all, there are any number of
WTO members that are part of free-trade arrangements or customs
unions.”  At a Sept. 30 government meeting, Putin instructed
Shuvalov, his point man for foreign investment, to proceed with
the WTO negotiation process “parallel to our partners in the
customs union,” according to a  transcript  of his remarks
published on the government’s website.  Sticking Points  Russia will accept the obligations and impose the
restrictions associated with WTO membership only after it’s
become a full member because negotiations may “go on forever,”
Putin said then.  Russia and the U.S. won’t complete accession talks this
year because sticking points remain over issues including U.S.
demands for greater access for agricultural products, mainly
poultry and pork, legislation to protect intellectual property
and Russian curbs on imports and exports,  Myron Brilliant ,
senior vice-president for international affairs at the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, said in September.  The two countries also need to agree on rule-of-origin
issues associated with Russia’s customs union, he said.  Quotas for meat imports remain a point of contention that
will need to be negotiated by Russia with the U.S. and other WTO
members, a U.S. official who declined to be identified, said
today during the briefing with Summers. Russia is committed to
reaching an accord on the issue and may resolve all outstanding
issues within a few months, he said.  Poultry Quotas  Poultry imports from the U.S. were limited in January after
Russia, the largest importer of U.S. chicken and turkey, reduced
the amount of chlorine allowed in shipments. The Industry and
Trade Ministry said in June it will allocate 25 percent of
import quotas for U.S. poultry to other countries after talks on
resuming purchases stalled.  “Primary issues at this juncture lie in the sphere of
documentation rather than in the sphere of issue resolution,”
Summers said.  Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said Oct. 1 the country may
complete talks on joining the WTO in two to four months and
another six months may be needed for the formal accession
procedure, after all outstanding questions with the U.S. were
resolved.  “I don’t really think that these are just words this time,
because they are based on the main issues being cleared up,”
 Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist for Russia and the Commonwealth
of Independent States at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research in
Moscow, said in a phone interview. “I feel confident this will
translate into Russia becoming a member pretty soon.”  ‘Biggest Benefit’  Increased competition and innovation as a result of WTO
accession may lead to a 10 percent gain in gross domestic
product in the medium term, Tchakarov said, citing World Bank
studies.  “This is going to be positive for Russia for different
reasons than it’s positive for many other economies, which
benefit from lower tariffs for their exports,” he said. “In
the case of Russia the biggest benefit is that it will begin to
abide by certain rules and regulations, which will lead to
higher competition in the country and more innovation, as
barriers to entry in different industries become lower. This is
the key benefit for the country.”  Russia, which has yet to reach an agreement on its WTO
accession with Georgia, recognizes the “need for creative
solutions” with the former Soviet republic to remove the
remaining “obstacle to this important bit of economic
integration,” Summers said.  Trade Embargo  Georgia, which was routed in a five-day war with Russia
over the breakaway region of South Ossetia in 2008, has
threatened to block Russia’s entry to the WTO if its northern
neighbor doesn’t lift a four-year-old economic embargo.  “Our position remains the same,”  Vera Kobalia , Georgia’s
minister of economy and sustainable development, said by text
message from Israel today. “As soon as Russia follows WTO rules
and regulations, we will be happy to support it. But right now
they have an embargo on a WTO member country’s products, which
is against WTO regulations. Not to mention the fact that they’re
occupying 20 percent of Georgia.”  Russia recognized the regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia
as independent after an August 2008 war. Georgia maintains
Russia occupied the regions after the conflict.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 