-- Genzyme’s Earnings Surge as Medicine Shortages Ease
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-10-20T20:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/sanofi-buyout-target-genzyme-reports-profit-surge-as-drug-shortages-ease.html
Genzyme Corp. , the U.S.
biotechnology company resisting a hostile takeover by  Sanofi-
Aventis SA , said third-quarter profit quadrupled as it restored
drug supplies after a plant closure last year.  Net income rose to $69 million, or 26 cents a share, the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said today. Profit
excluding some items was 42 cents a share, 11 cents below the
average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Genzyme, the world’s largest maker of medicines for rare
genetic disorders, rejected a hostile bid of $18.5 billion from
Sanofi, France’s largest drugmaker, earlier this month, saying
the offer undervalues its pipeline and revenue growth after
remedying manufacturing glitches that caused shortages of its
top-selling  medicines , Cerezyme and Fabrazyme. The company said
today that progress in supplying drugs and meeting manufacturing
goals is on track.  “It’s positive to convey the message that business is
recovering,” said  Michael Yee , an analyst with RBC Capital
Markets, in a telephone interview yesterday. “It’s an important
week for them to be center-stage, telling everyone how much
things have improved over the last couple months.”  Genzyme rose 22 cents to $72.11 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The  shares  have gained 33
percent since July 22, the last day of trading before Sanofi’s
buyout interest became public.  Investor Meeting  Genzyme scheduled an investor meeting in New York on Oct.
22 to detail its case that Sanofi’s $69-a-share bid undervalues
the company. The information Genzyme provides there could
satisfy Paris-based Sanofi’s request for a reason to justify an
increased offer, Yee said.  “The implication that things are improving reiterates that
stance to  shareholders  to demand a higher price,” said Yee, who
is based in San Francisco and has a “sector perform” rating on
Genzyme shares. “It’s also another shot across the bow to
Sanofi that a higher price is needed before any progress is
going to be made.”  Sales in the quarter rose 8.2 percent to $1 billion,
missing the average $1.1 billion estimate of 13 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Net income in the comparable period last year
was $16 million, or 6 cents a share.  Third-quarter sales of Cerezyme, for the genetic disorder
Gaucher disease, rose 92 percent to $179.8 million, while
revenue from Fabrazyme, for Fabry disease, fell to $33.9 million
from $115.2 million in the same quarter last year, Genzyme said.  Analysts had estimated sales of $175 million for Cerezyme
and $43 million for Fabrazyme, said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst
with ISI Group Inc.  Drug Supplies  The company affirmed today that it expects to return to
full supply of Fabrazyme globally in the first half of next
year, and for Cerezyme in the fourth quarter of this year.
Patients in the U.S. on Cerezyme began returning to normal
dosing in September.  Genzyme lowered the high end of its profit forecast for
this quarter, projecting adjusted earnings of 90 cents to 95
cents a share. It had previously forecast as much as $1.  The company also reported data today from a late-stage
trial of the medicine Clolar in adult patients with acute
myeloid leukemia, a type of blood cancer, who don’t respond to
or have relapsed on other treatments. The drug didn’t improve
overall survival when combined with chemotherapy, compared with
the other drug alone, Genzyme said. The study did show an
improvement in remission rates, a secondary endpoint.  Genzyme said last month it will cut about 1,000 jobs over
15 months as part of a restructuring plan. The company also said
in September that it agreed to sell its genetic testing unit to
Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings for $925 million in cash,
part of a plan to divest or spin-off businesses that aren’t
central to its focus on rare-disease drugs.  “With the combination of an improving top line in 2011 as
well as cost reductions instituted over the next 12 months, the
company is set for revenue and earnings leverage,” Yee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 