-- Sanofi, Facebook, Colgate: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-10-20T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/sanofi-facebook-colgate-vivendi-apple-hokie-intellectual-property.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA  won a $442 million
judgment against Apotex Inc. in a lawsuit over the patent for
the blood thinner Plavix.  The judgment by U.S. District Judge Sidney H. Stein entered
yesterday in the case file in Manhattan federal court set the
amount of damages awarded to Paris-based Sanofi and granted
interest on the award since August 2006.  Sanofi filed its patent-infringement suit against closely
held Apotex in 2002 and won a preliminary injunction against the
Toronto-based company four years later. In a five-week bench
trial in 2007, a judge found that Sanofi’s patent on Plavix, the
world’s second biggest-selling drug, was valid and enforceable,
and that Apotex violated the patent by making and distributing a
generic form of the drug.  Apotex’s infringing sales came in a three-week period in
August 2006, during which it “flooded the market with its
generic product” before the court barred it from continuing,
according to the filing.  Joining Sanofi as plaintiff in the case was a partnership
the company has with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co . Sanofi owns the
Plavix patent and New York-based Bristol-Myers sells the drug in
the U.S.  The case is Sanofi-Synthelabo v. Apotex Inc., 1:02-cv-
02255-SHS, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Facebook Gets Patent for Network-Member Location System  Facebook Inc., creator of the social-networking website
with more than 500 million users, received a patent for a system
of automatically locating web-based social network members.  Patent 7,809,805, issued Oct. 5, includes the use of a
global-positioning-system device configured to receive a GPS
identifier and a status representing a location and current
state for a social network member.  Contact content in the web-based social network database
record would be updated to include the GPS identifier and status
for the member of the network.  In August, Facebook introduced “Places,” a feature aimed
at making it easier for users to share their whereabouts with
other people. Services that help Web users share their
whereabouts and find nearby friends could generate as much as
$4.1 billion in annual ad sales by 2015, according to  Borrell
Associates .  Facebook applied for the patent in February 2007 with the
assistance of  Fenwick & West LLP  of Palo Alto, California.  Colgate’s Red Tooth Powder Patent Opposed by Indian Group  Colgate-Palmolive Co. , the world’s largest maker of
toothpaste, is being criticized by an association of
manufacturers of traditional Indian medicine for patenting a red
herbal toothpowder they claim is drawn from Indian traditional
knowledge, the Economic Times  reported .  The company’s U.S. patent 7,736,629, issued June 15, should
be opposed by the Indian government, the  Association of
Manufacturers of Ayurvedic Medicines  told the Economic Times.  India’s Controller General of Patents hasn’t yet decided
whether to grand Colgate’s application for an Indian patent on
the compound, the Economic Times reported.  The red herbal tooth powder, known in Indian as  Lal Dant
Manjan , is sold in that country by  Dabur India Ltd. , which the
Economic Times said may be considering legal action against
Colgate.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Vivendi Publishing Unit Sued Over Use of Photographer’s Work  Vivendi ’s Houghton Mifflin unit was sued for copyright
infringement by a photographer who claims his work was used
without permission in some of the publisher’s academic
textbooks.  Paul Wayne Wilson  of Largo, Florida, never gave the
publisher permission to use his photos, he said in the complaint
filed Oct. 13 in federal court in Manhattan. He said he received
repeated requests from the company to license his photos, and he
has “no record or recollection of granting such license,
authorization or consent.”  He included in his filing one e-mail from the publisher
claiming it had previously received permission to reproduce the
images and asking for a renewed license. He also submitted a
July 8 e-mail from Houghton Mifflin’s Images Services department
acknowledging that “the permissioning process was not
completed” for some of Wilson’s images.  Wilson said he was harmed by the unauthorized use of his
images, and asked the court for awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs, and an order barring future
infringement of his copyrights.  Wilson is represented by Edward Greenberg of Edward C.
Greenberg PC of New York.  The case is Paul Wayne Wilson V. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt
Publishing Co., 1:10-cv-07814-LAK, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Apple Sued Over Inclusion of Teenager’s Hacked Photos in App  Apple Inc.  was sued for copyright infringement by a 19-
year-old New York student.  The lawsuit, filed Oct. 14 in federal court in Manhattan,
related to the unauthorized use of photos shot of Rebecca
Battino of Woodmere, New York, when she was 16 years old. The
photos were taken when her home computer was hacked, she said in
the complaint, and are now being shown in “eXtreme Cam Girls,”
an application sold in Apple’s iTunes App Store.  This application, Battino says, contains “a collection of
adult-oriented sexually explicit images of young girls in
various stages of undress.” She claims that neither Apple nor
the application’s developers sought or obtained her consent to
use her images.  Co-defendants with Apple are  Samba Studios LLC  of Miami and
Mario Bosch, named as a director or officer of Samba. Battino
also sued 10 unidentified defendants.  She said her photos reached “millions of people” and
created the false impression that she is somehow affiliated with
the application. Battino says she registered copyrights for the
disputed photographs, and wasn’t compensated for and is injured
by their unauthorized use.  She asked the court for an order barring further
unauthorized use of her photos and for awards of profits the
defendants realized through their alleged infringement. She
seeks at least $1 million in damages, plus extra damages to
punish the defendants for their actions, as well as awards of
attorney fees and litigation costs.  She is represented by David Atlas of  Hernstadt Atlas LLP  of
New York.  The case is Battino v. Samba Studios LLC, 1:10-cv-07862-
LTS, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Virginia Tech Seeks to Block Broker’s Use of ‘Hokie’  Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University , the
scene of a shooting massacre in 2007, sued a Blacksburg,
Virginia, real estate broker for trademark infringement.  The lawsuit relates to Hokie Real Estate Inc.’s use of the
word “hokie” in its name. According to the complaint filed
Oct. 18 in federal court in Roanoke, Virginia, “hokie” is “a
made-up word, a coined term with no meaning.”  The school said the term had its origins in a campus
contest for a new spirit yell in the 1890s. The winning entry
contained the word “hoki” -- which later had an “e” added to
the end -- and is today defined as a supporter of Virginia Tech.  After the 2007 shooting, in which 31 students and faculty
members died, the phrase “we are all hokies” was used  to show
solidarity with the university .  The school uses the term in a variety of ways and says it
is “very careful and interested to monitor the use of the
nickname to maintain its reputation and the goodwill of the
university as a whole.” It has registered the term as a
trademark.  One reason the university said it objects to the real
estate broker’s use of the term is that the school developed a
program with an architect to develop house plans that are
“specially drawn up for and targeted to Virginia Tech alumni,
fans and friends.”  These “unique and interested designs” are to be marketed
and sold to home buyers “wanting to buy an authorized ‘ Hokie
Home’ design ,” the school said in its pleadings.  The broker’s use of the word “hokie” is likely to confuse
the public, the school claims. Virginia Tech said it already has
“suffered harm and damage” and will continue to do so unless
the court orders the company to quit using the term.  The school also asked for awards of money damages,
litigation costs and attorney fees.  Virginia Tech is represented by John H. Thomas of Thomas &
Karceski PC of Richmond, Virginia.  The case is Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University v. Hokie Real Estate Inc., 7:10-cv-00466-GEC, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Virginia (Roanoke).  Monsanto to License Roundup Ready Plus Trademarks to Valent  Monsanto Co. , the world’s largest seed company, said it
reached a long-term licensing agreement with  Sumitomo Chemical
Co.  and the Japanese company’s  Valent USA Corp.  unit.  Monsanto will license its Roundup Ready Plus weed-
management trademarks for use with Valent herbicides including
Valor SX, Valor XLT Gangster and Fierce, according to
yesterday’s joint statement.  The companies also agreed to consider further collaboration
on weed-management projects in countries including Brazil and
Argentina, they said.  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  Quinn Emanuel Expands IP Practice With Hire From Weil Gotshal  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP  hired David
Constantine Radulescu for its intellectual-property group, the
Los Angeles-based firm said in a  statement .  Radulescu, a litigator, was previously a partner in New
York’s  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP . Among the clients he has
represented are  Cree Inc. ,  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. ,  Seoul
Semiconductor Co.  and  Samsung Electronics Co. , according to
Bloomberg data.  He has an undergraduate degree in electric engineering and
applied physics from Case Western Reserve University, and a
doctorate in electrical engineering from Cornell University. He
received his law degree from Columbia University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 