-- Sarkozy Faces Strike Threat as Lady Gaga Scraps Two Paris Shows
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-21T08:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/sarkozy-faces-strike-threat-as-french-senators-debate-pension-amendments.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
faces a double threat as labor unions consider extending their
protests over his planned pension overhaul and as debate over
amendments delays a Senate vote on the legislation.  Government officials began tallying the cost of transport
disruptions and strikes at oil refineries, saying they’re
hurting French competitiveness. Strikes against the bill, which
would raise the retirement age to 62 from 60, have caused about
half the country’s service stations to run out of gasoline and
prompted the singer  Lady Gaga  to cancel two shows in Paris.  “All this is costing the French economy very dearly at a
time when we’re coming out of the crisis, regaining market
share,”  Christian Estrosi , France’s industry minister, said in
an interview on France Info radio.  Unions, balking at the government’s refusal to halt the
pension bill, may decide on a seventh day of protests when they
meet later today. The Senate, which planned to vote on the bill
today, is likely to keep debating as lawmakers consider  238
amendments . A vote may come as late as Oct. 24.  The government says it won’t bow to the opposition
 Socialist Party ’s demand to suspend debate in the upper house of
parliament or to union requests to withdraw the bill. Police
have been deployed to keep fuel supplies flowing.  “We have several weeks of fuel reserves in the depots,”
Interior Minister  Brice Hortefeux  said on Europe 1 radio today.
“The real problem is how we can ensure distribution to gas
stations.” He said 14 of France’s 219 fuel depots were blocked
by protesters, and that police have removed blockades at eight
depots since yesterday.  Fuel Shortages  About half the 12,000 service stations in France are
experiencing supply shortages, said  Serge Papin , head of the
Super U network of 800 outlets which has placed a 30-euro
($42.12) cap on fuel purchases. The worst shortages are in
western and central France, he told France Inter radio.  On Oct. 19, unions staged the fourth national strike and
the sixth day of protests in two months against the bill, which
also raises the age for a full pension to 67, moving France into
line with other Group of Seven nations.  Other European countries, including Germany, Italy and
Britain, have recently raised their retirement ages or extended
the number of years of work needed to qualify for a pension.  Unions are divided as they meet today to discuss how to
pursue the protest movement. “There is no way out because the
government remains intransigent,” CGT Secretary General  Bernard Thibault  said on RMC radio. “There is no reason to stop the
protests. They should be as big as possible,” he said, calling
for another large demonstration next week.  Declining to Strike  The smaller CFE/CGC union, which has mostly private sector
members, said it won’t join any strikes or protests once the
bill clears the Senate. The pension bill passed the lower house
of parliament last month.  Sarkozy’s government says the retirement overhaul is needed
to balance the pension system’s budget by 2018. The changes are
part of its efforts to reduce the overall deficit. This year,
the gap will stand at 7.7 percent of gross domestic product and
Sarkozy plans to cut it to 6 percent next year.  Lady Gaga, known for her outlandish costumes, put off shows
slated for Oct. 22 and Oct. 23 until Dec. 19 and Dec. 20 because
trucks may not be able to reach the Bercy concert venue, the
singer said in a statement on her website.  “As there is no certainty that the trucks can make it to
Bercy for this weekend’s shows, the Lady Gaga performances are
now postponed,” according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  