-- Saskatchewan Premier Still Doesn't See Benefit of BHP Bid for Potash Corp.
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-10-20T21:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/saskatchewan-premier-wall-still-doesn-t-see-benefit-of-bhp-bid-for-potash.html
Saskatchewan Premier  Brad Wall  said
 BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion hostile offer for  Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan Inc.  isn’t beneficial to his province or to
Canada, citing lost revenue stemming from the deal.  The Saskatchewan cabinet will make a final decision today
on how it will advise the Canadian government on the
transaction, Wall told reporters in Regina, the provincial
capital. Canada’s federal government has until Nov. 3 to block
the bid, unless BHP agrees to an extension of the review.  Wall has been in negotiations with BHP over compensation,
according to an e-mail from an official of the Canadian
province. Saskatchewan has rejected an offer of C$370 million
($362 million) of infrastructure investment because the amount
falls short of offsetting the C$3 billion in lost provincial
revenue over 10 years, the official said, declining to be
identified because the talks are private.  “I still do not see how this takeover is a net benefit to
Saskatchewan or Canada,” Wall told reporters just before
entering a cabinet meeting. “At the very basis of a net-benefit
analysis, we would need C$3 billion. That would just be keeping
the province whole. That would not be a net benefit.”  BHP is confident it can address the province’s concern over
lost revenue, the company said today in a  statement .  “This is a proposal for an American-controlled company to
be taken over by an Australian-controlled company,” Canadian
Prime  Minister Stephen Harper  said in response to a question
in the House of Commons today.  ‘Make Commitments’  BHP “is prepared to make commitments which go beyond the
requirements of prevailing Canadian legislation that should
effectively address the tax loss concerns of the province,” the
company said in its statement.  BHP will restructure the deal to ensure tax revenue will
remain the same for the provincial government,  reported  the
StarPhoenix, a Saskatchewan newspaper, citing  Andrew Mackenzie ,
a company executive.  Saskatchewan will formally announce the province’s position
on the hostile takeover offer tomorrow, Wall said.  Wall’s speech will include previously undisclosed details
about the government’s response to BHP’s bid, Kathy Young, a
spokeswoman for the premier, said in an interview. She declined
to elaborate.  Potash Corp.  dropped  $1 to $142.43 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  BHP  advanced 2.5 percent to
2,192.5 pence in London.  Liberal Opposition  Canada’s Industry Minister  Tony Clement  said the federal
government is talking with BHP and the province as it assesses
whether to approve the bid.  “We’re in contact with the government of Saskatchewan,”
Clement told reporters outside Parliament in Ottawa. “They’re a
key player in this.”  The main opposition Liberal Party formally announced they
want the federal government to reject the $130-a-share bid
because it would mark a “sell-off” of the province’s potash
industry, raising the potential the deal could become an
election issue.  BHP’s bid is facing increasing “political headwinds,”
 Paul Cliff , a London-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
wrote in a report today. He estimates BHP will raise its offer
to about $150 a share to win Potash Corp.  “A key risk to the transaction is that it becomes a
broader political issue,” Cliff said. “At this point, we
believe economics are more likely to prevail and that the bid
will eventually be endorsed by the Government of Canada’s
Investment Review Division.”  ‘Net Benefit’  Under the Investment Canada Act, the central government can
block transactions if it finds they don’t provide a “net
benefit” to the country. There are “serious questions” on
whether BHP’s offer meets the criteria of the net-benefit test,
Saskatchewan’s Energy and Resources Minister  Bill Boyd  said
Oct. 6.  “I don’t see any net benefit at all, I only see
negatives,”  Stephen Jarislowsky , chief executive officer of
Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd., said today in an interview. His company
held 8.73 million Potash Corp. shares as of Sept. 30, according
to Bloomberg  data .  The Conference Board of Canada, an independent researcher
of economic and public policy issues, said Oct. 4 in a report
that Potash Corp.’s takeover by BHP would cost Saskatchewan C$2
billion in lost tax revenue over 10 years. The province
commissioned the report.  Potash Corp., which is based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan,
has rejected BHP’s offer  as too low  and said it’s seeking
alternative offers amid rising prices for agricultural
commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 