-- BHP Potash Bid Sweetener Said Rejected by Saskatchewan
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-10-20T05:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/saskatchewan-said-to-reject-bhp-proposal-on-infrastructure.html
Saskatchewan rejected an offer of
C$370 million ($358 million) of infrastructure investment from
BHP Billiton Ltd., which is trying to win support for its $40
billion bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , according to
an e-mail from an official of the Canadian province.  The investment doesn’t come close to offsetting the C$3
billion of revenue Saskatchewan will lose over 10 years should
BHP acquire Potash Corp., said the official, who declined to be
identified because the talks between BHP and the province are
private. BHP is confident it can address the province’s concern
it will lose revenue, the company said in an e-mailed  statement .  Saskatchewan Premier  Brad Wall  will set out the province’s
official position on the hostile takeover bid in a speech
tomorrow, the government said yesterday. Canada has until Nov. 3
to block the $130-a-share bid if it finds it doesn’t provide a
“net benefit” to the country, unless BHP agrees to an
extension of the review.  “If the local government rejects the deal you will find
that will flow through to the national level,” David Lennox, a
resource analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney, said today by phone.
“The Canadian government will then probably reject the deal as
well. That will be the finish of the deal.”  BHP  declined  0.7 percent to A$40.88 at the 4:10 p.m. Sydney
close on the Australian stock exchange. Potash yesterday gained
22 cents to $143.43 in New York, a 10 percent premium to BHP’s
offer.  Canada’s Industry Minister  Tony Clement  said last week the
federal government is considering all points of view, including
that of Saskatchewan.  Andrew Dinsmore , a spokesman for the
Saskatchewan government, wasn’t immediately available to comment.  Blocking Power  Under the Investment Canada Act, the federal government can
block transactions if it finds they don’t provide a “net
benefit” to the country. There are “serious questions” as to
whether Melbourne-based BHP’s offer meets the criteria of the
net-benefit test, Saskatchewan’s Energy and Resources Minister
 Bill Boyd  said this month.  “BHP Billiton is confident it can address this concern and,
in this regard, is prepared to make commitments which go beyond
the requirements of prevailing Canadian legislation that should
effectively address the tax loss concerns of the province,” BHP
said in the statement.  Lost Revenue  The Conference Board of Canada, an independent researcher
of economic and public policy issues, said Oct. 4 in a report
that Potash Corp.’s takeover by BHP would cost Saskatchewan C$2
billion in lost tax revenue over 10 years.  Potash Corp., which is based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan,
has rejected BHP’s offer  as too low  and said it’s seeking
alternative offers amid rising prices for agricultural
commodities. Sinochem Group, China’s largest fertilizer trader
and cited by analysts as a likely counter bidder, may struggle
to get state financial backing for a takeover, two people with
knowledge of the matter said Oct. 7.  Saskatchewan has put pressure on BHP to remain committed to
 Canpotex , an organization that handles potash exports, on
concern its exit would reduce the region’s revenue. Canpotex
handles exports for Potash Corp., Agrium Inc., and Mosaic Co.,
which together account for as much as 40 percent of global trade
in the nutrient.  BHP, already developing Canada’s Jansen potash project,
said in August it prefers to run its mines at full capacity and
would seek to sell its potash independently of Canpotex should
its bid succeed.  Potash is a form of potassium used by farmers to strengthen
stalks and roots and help crops fight disease. Potash Corp.
controls 20 percent of global supply, according to the company’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongchamps@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ; 