-- Schneider Electric Lifts Margin Goal as Third-Quarter Sales Rise
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-10-20T06:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/schneider-electric-lifts-full-year-margin-goal-as-third-quarter-sales-rise.html
Schneider Electric SA , the world’s
biggest maker of circuit breakers, raised its full-year margin
target for a second time this year as quarterly sales rose 38
percent after it bought Areva SA’s power-grid distribution unit.  Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization before
restructuring costs and the effect of the Areva deal will be in
a range of 15.5 percent to 16 percent of sales, up from a July
target of “around” 15.5 percent, the company said in a
statement today. It also raised its second-half sales growth
target.  “All our end-markets are now past their trough, even
though non-residential construction and energy and
infrastructure remain at a low level in many mature countries,”
Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Pascal Tricoire  said in the
statement.  Schneider, which was hurt last year by the construction
slump in Europe and the U.S., said it’s on track for its 2009-
2011  cost -cutting plan. The company bought Areva’s power-grid
distribution unit in June as part of a plan to expand in faster-
growing regions and in businesses such as energy efficiency and
services.  Revenue rose to 5.45 billion euros ($7.5 billion) in the
third quarter, up 38 percent including the Areva deal and
exchange-rate effects, or a 12 percent like-for-like increase
from a year earlier. That compares with an average estimate of a
5.09 billion euros in a Bloomberg survey of six analysts.  Foreign-exchange fluctuations added 325 million euros to
third-quarter sales as the U.S. and Australian dollars and the
yuan rose against the euro.  Second-Half Growth  Schneider, based near Paris, expects second-half “organic
growth to be at a high single-digit rate.” In July, it said
second-half “organic sales progression” should be “broadly in
line” with that of the first half, when it was 6.4 percent.  Areva Distribution is on track to reach its 1.1 billion-
euro sales target for the June-to-December period, Schneider
said. It will have an EBITA margin of about 5 percent before
integration and separation costs, Schneider said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  