-- Southern Sudan to Form Transitional Government After January Referendum
-- B y   A l a n   B o s w e l l
-- 2010-10-20T16:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/southern-sudan-to-form-transitional-government-after-january-referendum.html
Southern Sudan  will call a
constitutional convention and form a transitional government
should the oil-rich region secede from Sudan next year,
political parties in the semi-autonomous state said.  The convention would be called within a month of the
referendum and a transitional government would be formed under
President  Salva Kiir , according to a statement by the ruling
Sudan People’s Liberation Movement and opposition parties handed
to reporters today in Juba, the capital.  “This government will be charged, inter alia, with the duty
to carry out the general elections for the Constituent Assembly
that will pass the permanent constitution,” it said.  Under a 2005 peace deal that ended a 21-year civil war
between Sudan’s northern and southern regions, Southern Sudan
was promised a referendum in January on whether to secede and
form a new country.  No timetable was set up for the assembly elections. The
statement didn’t say whether the “constituent assembly” would
take the place of the region’s current legislature.  The SPLM, a rebel group a came to power following the 2005
accord, retained power in Southern Sudan after elections in
April.  Sudan’s daily output of 490,000 barrels a day makes it sub-
Saharan Africa’s third-largest crude producer, according to the
BP Statistical Review of World Energy. Most of Sudan’s oil is
pumped in Southern Sudan.  Yesterday, Reuters reported that the parties agreed to hold
a census and to hold a referendum in January on Abyei, the
disputed border area promised its own vote on whether to join
the north or south. Today’s statement didn’t make any reference
to the census or to the Abyei referendum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Boswell  in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 