-- Spa Resorts Try `Naked Table' Building, Yoga to Lure Executives
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-10-20T18:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/spa-resorts-push-naked-table-building-yoga-classes-to-lure-executives.html
Spa resorts such as Vermont’s Stowe
Mountain Lodge and the Broadmoor in Colorado are using wall
climbing, carpentry classes and yoga to lure corporate clients
accustomed to little more than free breakfast as a hotel perk.  Stowe Mountain has boosted its corporate group bookings
with such programs as the “Naked Table Project,” in which
participants learn to build furniture from scratch. At the
 Miraval Arizona Resort & Spa  in Tucson, guests can use meeting
breaks to walk a tightrope or jump from a 25-foot (8-meter)
pole, an activity known as the “Quantum Leap.”  Luxury hotels, hurt more than their cheaper competitors by
last year’s U.S. recession, are working to reverse a drop in
demand from business travelers. Spa resorts, upscale properties
with a focus on health treatments and other recreational
activities, are among those that have had the toughest time
booking corporations, which became thriftier during the slump.  “These have been challenging times, but during these last
two years, our programs have helped to attract corporate
groups,” said Morgan Fukumoto, a spokeswoman for  Stowe Mountain 
in Stowe, Vermont. “They look for more team-building activities
and to get a great value for their money.”  Hotel occupancies in the top 25 U.S. markets climbed to 65
percent this year through August from 61 percent a year earlier,
according to  Smith Travel Research Inc.  of Hendersonville,
Tennessee. Luxury properties, which include spa resorts, showed
the biggest increases, with occupancies rising to 67 percent
from 62 percent.  Trailblazers Meeting  Chains including  Marriott International Inc. , Blackstone
Group LP’s Hilton Worldwide and Hyatt Hotels Corp. have offered
complimentary breakfast and Internet access to attract corporate
customers. At Miraval -- majority owned by Revolution LLC, the
investment company run by AOL Inc. co-founder  Steve Case  --
guests can test their skills on an obstacle course.  That spurred the front office of the National Basketball
Association’s Portland Trailblazers to hold its annual
teambuilding conference at the 118-room resort two years in a
row. The group, when not in meetings to discuss the upcoming
season, built camaraderie by balancing on an oversized teeter-
totter and scaling a 15-foot wall.  “The whole team tried to get over this wall,” said Traci
Reandeau, the Trailblazers’ vice president of human resources.
“You have to use everybody’s strengths, so it’s not like you
could just step on head coach  Nate McMillan , who’s pretty tall,
to get over it.”  Spending Stifled  Obstacle courses and carpentry classes may not be enough to
help corporate travel return to its 2007 peak as the economic
slump continues to stifle spending. Revenue per available room
at U.S. luxury hotels plunged 24 percent last year, the most of
any industry segment, according to  Smith Travel .  “A lot of the hotels are cognizant of the idea to not
lower rates but instead offer value,” said Christine Lai,
executive strategy director for Santa Barbara, California-based
 Elite Meetings International Inc. , which connects hotels with
conference planners. “There was definitely the AIG effect.”  Companies have sought to avoid appearances of excess
following the 2008 bailout of American International Group Inc.,
she said. AIG was criticized by lawmakers for rewarding agents
with a $440,000 trip to a California resort less than a week
after the insurer got its first government bailout. The company
canceled about 160 resort events costing a total of $80 million
after congressional hearings in October 2008.  ‘Still Restraint’  “There is still restraint in corporate spending, although
it’s nowhere near where it was six months ago,” said  Patrick Scholes , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets in New York. “The
problem is corporate meetings are often planned far in advance,
so even if the hesitation is lessening, it may still take a year
or two until some of these will actually take place.”  For Reandeau of the Trailblazers, the visits to Miraval
weren’t only for entertainment. The resort’s activities, which
included contests such as chili and barbeque cook-offs, helped
with team-building, she said.  “These retreats ensure that there’s a connection there --
that we’re all on the same page,” Reandeau said. “It’s not
just fun but, we think, necessary.”  Miraval last year added to its regular corporate offerings
a four-day executive program, during which participants receive
lessons from Tony Schwartz, a management expert, on boosting
energy levels within their companies. The resort charges $3,000
plus tax per person for the program, said Michael Tompkins,
general manager of the Arizona resort.  Google, Toyota  The resort has hosted executives from companies including
 Bank of America Corp. ,  Google Inc. ,  Sony Corp.  and  Toyota Motor
Corp ., Tompkins said. Half of the available executive courses
have been booked for the remainder of the year, and about 10
percent have been reserved for 2011, he said.  The  Sanderling Resort & Spa , in North Carolina’s Outer
Banks, will begin offering butchering workshops to its corporate
and leisure guests next month, said Laura Millett, a spokeswoman
for the hotel. Guests will “meet their meat” as a German
master butcher takes them through the process of selecting and
cutting meat from steer, hogs, lambs and other animals at a
nearby organic farm, the hotel said today in a statement.  At W Hotels,  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. ’s
high-end boutique brand, business clients can  learn  how to cook,
knit or be a disc jockey, according to the chain’s website. At
Stowe Mountain, where groups can get maple-infused hand and foot
massages during business meetings, corporate programs have been
successful enough to help spur the 139-room hotel to open an
additional 179 rooms in December, Fukumoto said.  Rise in Reservations  Corporate reservations for the year are up 34 percent from
2009, she said. About 30 percent of Stowe Mountain’s bookings
are from business groups, with the rest from leisure travelers.
The resort is trying to shift the ratio to 50-50, Fukumoto said.  Joie de Vivre Hospitality , a San Francisco-based boutique
hotelier with 35 properties, started its “Joy of Meetings”
initiative in January 2009, with bubble-blowing sessions to
relieve stress and yoga classes “to stimulate endorphins and
energy,” according to the company’s website. Guests can also
fly kites and make s’mores, the campout dessert made from graham
crackers, chocolate and marshmallows.  The program has helped Joie de Vivre boost business this
year, Carole Manning-Kim, corporate director of national sales
and marketing, said in an e-mail.  At the  Broadmoor  in Colorado Springs, Colorado, which
promises corporate clients a full refund if they aren’t
satisfied, groups can participate in fly-fishing and whitewater-
rafting excursions. Bookings for 2011 show a 15 percent increase
in business-group demand from this year, said John Washko, vice
president of sales and marketing.  About 65 percent of visitors at the closely held Broadmoor
are corporate clients, he said.  “After what we’ve just come through, we’ve seen the C-
level customer looking more and more for something outside of
the set standard golf-and-spa event,” Washko said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 