-- Stagecoach, U.K. Bus Stocks Advance on State Subsidies Amid Budget Cuts
-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-10-20T16:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/stagecoach-u-k-bus-stocks-advance-as-osborne-spares-subsidy-from-cuts.html
Stagecoach Group Plc , Go-Ahead Group
Plc and FirstGroup Plc surged in London trading after the U.K.
government retained fuel subsidies for bus operators amid the
country’s deepest-ever budget cuts.  Stagecoach, which operates a fleet of 7,000 buses that
carry 2 million people a day, rose 9.4 percent to 205.1 pence,
the biggest gain since Sept. 3, 2009, while  Go-Ahead  advanced
7.7 percent and FirstGroup added 6.4 percent.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said today he’ll
leave the bulk of fuel subsidies for bus companies intact,
reducing the payment by 20 percent from 2012 to save 300 million
pounds ($475 million) over three years. The move is part of a
plan to slash spending by 81 billion pounds after inflation.  “The cut in the direct subsidy is less than the market had
suspected,” said  Geoff van Klaveren , a transport analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in London with a “buy” rating on Stagecoach
stock. “The concern was that it would be cut completely.”  Following today’s gains, shares of Perth, Scotland-based
Stagecoach have added 21 percent this year, boosting its market
value to 720 million pounds.  Newcastle upon Tyne, England-based Go-Ahead rose the most
since March 4, 2009, and Aberdeen, Scotland-based  FirstGroup  by
the most since May 5 this year. London-based  National Express
Group Plc  closed up 4.7 percent, the biggest gain since May 26.  Local Services  U.K. bus companies last year received 430 million pounds in
government payments from the so-called Bus Service Operators
Grant, which refunds part of the duty on fuel for running local
services, according to the Department for Transportation.  “We are pleased that the government has listened to the
industry and kept the cuts to a minimum and we warmly welcome
this,” Simon Posner, chief executive officer of the
 Confederation of Passenger Transport , which represents the bus
and rail industries, said in an e-mailed statement.  Bus operators also receive local government support for
running services on routes which are not commercially viable but
are considered vital to local communities, and for transporting
elderly passengers and children at concessionary fares.  The government will also retain incentives for smartcards,
low-carbon-emission buses and automatic vehicle location
technology, the DfT said in a statement on its website.  “It could have been a lot worse,” said  Gert Zonneveld , an
analyst at Panmure Gordon in London. “And the cuts aren’t until
2012, so the companies have plenty of time to prepare.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Jasper at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net  