-- Stiglitz Urges More Fiscal Stimulus Instead of Fed Easing
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H a y s   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-20T21:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/stiglitz-urges-more-fiscal-stimulus-over-fed-easing-to-boost-u-s-economy.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said today the U.S. needs more fiscal stimulus to aid
the economy and that more unconventional monetary easing by the
Federal Reserve would do little to spur the recovery.  Stiglitz said he sees an “excessive” Federal Reserve
focus on interest rates and that another round of so-called
quantitative easing wouldn’t have a “significant effect” on
the economy. The government instead should provide more money to
states to save jobs after last year’s $814-billion stimulus
program.  “What we really need is a second round of stimulus,”
Stiglitz said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays
Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . “If you gave money to the
states they would be able to keep those employees; those
employees would then be able to spend money,” which would
generate more confidence and investment by companies.  Stiglitz said while he expected  the Fed  to carry out more
unconventional easing, it would only likely lower long-term
lending rates by about 0.2 or 0.3 percentage point. Three
Federal Reserve regional presidents, including Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans , this week made remarks reinforcing the
likelihood of more unconventional easing.  “There is very little they can do,” said Stiglitz, a
Columbia University economics professor. “They are back to this
excessive focus on interest rates, as if changing interest rate
is going to solve all the problems.”  Fed ‘Feels Guilty’  Stiglitz said the Fed “feels guilty” because he said it
allowed low rates and lax regulation to generate a subprime
mortgage crisis that led to the global recession and now “feels
it ought to be doing something.”  He said authorities should enact measures to make it easier
for homeowners facing foreclosure to stay in their homes by
filing for bankruptcy and to force banks to write down loans and
take part in any eventual capital gains when the home is sold.  “Across the country, there is a sense of inequity,” he
said. Banks that “caused the overall problem received huge
amounts of money” that was meant to reinvigorate lending. “It
hasn’t happened,” Stiglitz said.  He warned that record housing evictions, foreclosure
moratoria and investigations whether lenders such as Bank of
America Corp. falsified documents were “like a slow train
wreck” going back to the housing bubble of the middle part of
the decade.  He said he didn’t believe the U.S. and China were close to
a currency accord. “It’s going to be very difficult to get a
global consensus,” Stiglitz said.  Resolve Differences  Finance ministers of the Group of 20 meet in South Korea
this weekend to try to resolve differences over what Brazil’s
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  last month said was a “currency
war.”  The People’s Bank of China unexpectedly raised its
benchmark lending and deposit rates yesterday, the first
increase since 2007.  Stiglitz said a dollar crisis “could happen again” but he
didn’t see a “high probability” of it.  He said Fed officials weren’t acknowledging that the easing
policy was an effort to drive down the dollar to boost exports
“obviously because we’re engaged in accusing others of currency
manipulation.”  The paperback version of Stiglitz’s book “Freefall:
America, Free Markets, and the Sinking of the World Economy,”
has just been released and was first published in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 Bwillis@bloomberg.net 
 Kathleen Hays  in New York 
 Khays4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  