-- Subprime-Mortgage Market Re-Opens With Investec Issue
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2010-10-20T13:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/subprime-mortgage-bond-market-re-opens-in-europe-with-issue-from-investec.html
Investec Plc , the South African
bank, is seeking to revive the market for subprime mortgage
bonds in Europe three years after the securities were blamed for
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Investec is selling as much as 130 million pounds ($205
million) of top-rated five-year notes at a yield spread that’s
16 times pre-crisis levels, according to two people familiar
with the deal. U.K. buy-to-let specialist  Paragon Group of Cos.
Plc  is also preparing a sale of non-conforming mortgage bonds.  Investors are seeking riskier, higher-yielding securities
as central banks’ low interest-rate policies to stoke economic
growth keep yields on government and corporate debt close to
record lows. The collapse of the U.S.  subprime-mortgage market 
was the catalyst for the global credit crunch that caused $1.8
trillion of bank losses and writedowns since 2007.  “Investors are seeking yield and non-conforming is one of
the few places to find it,” said  Mirja Wenski,  a Dublin-based
managing director at Harbourmaster Capital Management Ltd, where
she helps to manage about 8.3 billion euros ($11.4 billion) of
assets including securitizations.  A London-based Investec spokesman, who declined to be
identified, wouldn’t comment on the transaction.  Wider Spreads  Investec’s notes may yield about 3.25 percentage points
more than the London interbank offered rate, said the people,
who declined to be named because the sale isn’t completed. That
compares with 0.2 percentage point on non-conforming notes sold
by a Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. unit in August 2007, Europe’s
last public sale of the debt, JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show.  Banks create mortgage-backed securities by pooling home
loans and selling them to investors as notes, allowing lenders
to raise capital more cheaply than by issuing unsecured debt.
Non-conforming lending covers mortgages to borrowers with no or
poor credit records or loans to landlords.  Investec’s bonds pool loans made by its London-based
Kensington Group Plc mortgage unit, Bank of America Corp.’s
Mortgages Plc, Money Partners Holdings Ltd. and GMAC RFC, the
former financing unit of General Motors Co., according to a
Fitch Ratings pre-sale report on the deal.  Investec’s bonds are part of an 186 million-pound issue
that includes about 45 million pounds of securities to be
retained by Residential Mortgage Securities 25 Plc, the special-
purpose company set up to pool the loans and issue the notes,
the people familiar with the transaction said.  ‘Economics Working’  Paragon, which got a 200 million-pound credit facility from
Macquarie Group Ltd. to provide loans to landlords, expects to
return to the mortgage-backed securities market next year,
Financial Director  Nicholas Keen  said in an interview.  “The economics are working again for our business,” Keen
said. “We are offering mortgages at rates between 4 to 5
percent, while we expect to raise debt at around Libor plus 200
to 250 basis points, according to the feedback we have received
from investors.”  Investec’s transaction is a test for the securitization
market amid evidence the U.K. property market is worsening.
House prices fell the most since at least 1983 in September,
according to Lloyds Banking Group Plc, while the International
Monetary Fund said Oct. 6 that home values are “still high”
and policy measures may not be enough to avoid a further drop.  Investors may still be wary of subprime debt. Bank of
America tried to sell 122.5 million pounds of lower-rated bonds
backed by non-conforming mortgages in June, according to three
people with knowledge of the deal. The sale hasn’t been
completed, Bloomberg data show. A Bank of America spokesman, who
declined to be identified, wouldn’t comment on the sale.  Investec and Paragon are returning to the bond market as
delinquencies on non-conforming loans included in securities
rated by Moody’s Investors Service dropped to 18.6 percent in
August, down from as high as 21 percent in June 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at   Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  