-- Sudan's Darfur Region Hit by Inter-Arab Violence, Small Arms Survey Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-10-20T14:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/sudan-s-darfur-region-hit-by-inter-arab-violence-small-arms-survey-says.html
Fighting among Arab tribes in
Darfur has claimed 1,000 lives this year and is now the
main source of violence in Sudan’s western region,  Small
Arms Survey , a Geneva-based research group, said.  The violence has pitted groups that herd camels for
their livelihoods against cattle farmers, Small Arms Survey
said today in a  report . Most were formerly allied with
Sudan’s government and its seven-year battle against rebels
claiming to represent African farmers, it said.  “Both sides use government-supplied weapons with
impunity,” the report said. “Both say the government is not
moving, in any serious way, to separate or restrain them.”  Violence in Darfur exploded in 2003 when rebels took
up arms, accusing the authorities in Khartoum, the capital,
of neglecting the region. The conflict has led to the
deaths of as many as 300,000 people, mainly due to illness
and starvation, and forced about 2.7 million people to flee
their homes, according to United Nations estimates. The
Sudanese government has put the death toll at about 10,000.  The  International Criminal Court  has issued arrest
warrants for President  Umar al-Bashir , accusing him of
responsibility for genocide and war crimes in Darfur. He
denies the charges.  ‘Complex Web’  “Since 2006, the largest single cause of violent death
in Darfur has not been ‘ongoing genocide’ of non-Arabs, but
fighting among former government collaborators --- the so-
called ‘janjaweed’,” the report said.  Behind the inter-Arab violence “is a complex web of
causality including competition over vacant land;
imbalances and jealousies arising from government
manipulation and militarization,” Small Arms Survey said.  Some of the Arab militias have recently allied
themselves with the Justice and Equality Movement, the
biggest rebel movement in Darfur, the group said.  Arab leaders in the region say the government hasn’t
moved to disarm them because it may need them if a new war
breaks out with the semi-autonomous region of  Southern
Sudan , according to the report.  The southern region is scheduled to vote in a Jan. 9
referendum to decide whether to secede from Sudan and form
an independent nation.  The independence vote is a key component of a 2005
 peace agreement  that ended two decades of civil war between
Sudan’s Muslim north and the south, where Christianity and
traditional beliefs dominate. About 2 million people died
in the conflict, and more than 4 million were displaced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 