-- U.K. Regulator Says It Wins Market Abuse Case Over Sale of Amerisur Shares
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-20T12:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/u-k-regulator-says-it-wins-market-abuse-case-over-sale-of-amerisur-shares.html
The Financial Services Authority won
a legal fight over its fine against a Maltese investor who used
inside information to trade shares of  Amerisur Resources Plc 
three years ago.  The Financial Services and Markets Tribunal ruled that the
watchdog’s initial fine of 46,062 pounds ($72,400) against Andre
Jean Scerri, 37, was appropriate because he had engaged in
“serious” market abuse, the FSA said today in a  statement . The
tribunal also raised Scerri’s fine to 66,062 pounds and rejected
his claim of financial hardship.  “Scerri was provided with inside information by another
retail investor,” FSA Managing Director  Margaret Cole  said in
the statement. “He profited from other, unwitting investors who
did not have that information.”  The FSA has targeted market abuse and insider trading for
more than two years and has said that in 2008 suspicious trades
took place before 29.3 percent of U.K. takeover announcements.
The regulator said in March it may tape traders’ mobile-
telephone calls in an effort to eradicate illegal behavior.  The case was triggered by Scerri’s May 2007 placement of an
order to buy additional shares in Amerisur, a Cardiff, Wales-
based oil and gas explorer. An unidentified investor told Scerri
that Amerisur would soon be offering new shares at a
“substantial discount” to the market price, the FSA alleged.  “As a result, Scerri canceled his buy order and began to
sell his existing position,” the watchdog said in the
statement.  The FSA identified Scerri’s lawyer as Richard Lee of Malta-
based British Expatriate Services. An e-mail to the firm wasn’t
immediately returned. The case resulted in fines against two
other investors and a broker who failed to report insider
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 