-- U.K. Posts Record September Deficit on Spending Gain
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-20T09:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/u-k-posts-record-september-deficit-hours-before-osborne-outlines-budget.html
Britain posted the largest budget
deficit for any September since modern records began in 1993,
highlighting the pressure on Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to stick to his fiscal-consolidation program.  Net borrowing was 15.6 billion pounds ($25 billion),
compared with 14.8 billion pounds a year earlier, the Office for
National Statistics said in London today. The median of 13
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was a deficit of 14.5
billion pounds. The shortfall excluding government support for
the financial sector widened to 16.2 billion pounds.  The figures come hours before Osborne is due to detail the
deepest spending cuts in living memory in a statement to
Parliament. The chancellor says the 83 billion-pound squeeze is
needed to erase the record deficit and protect Britain’s top
credit rating.  “We were looking for a fall from a year earlier so these
numbers are disappointing,”  Philip Shaw , chief economist at
Investec Securities in London, said in a telephone interview.
“The deficit is too high and firm action needs to be taken.
Repairing holes in the public finances isn’t easy at the best of
times and this won’t deflect the chancellor from his quest.”  In a separate report today, the Bank of England said policy
makers split three ways for the first time in almost a year at
their meeting earlier this month, with  Adam Posen  voting to
boost asset purchases by 50 billion pounds.  Pound Weakens  The pound fell after the report before recovering to
$1.5742 as of 10:03 a.m. in London, up 0.2 percent on the day.
The yield on the benchmark 2-year government bond was down 2
basis points at 0.59 percent.  Revenue rose 7.8 percent in September, and government
spending climbed 10.2 percent, the most since March. Defense and
health posted the biggest gains, the statistics office said.  In the first half of the fiscal year that began in April,
revenue growth outpaced spending, narrowing the deficit
excluding financial interventions to 73.5 billion pounds. That
leaves the government on course to meet the Office for Budget
Responsibility’s full-year forecast of 149 billion pounds.  Britain had a deficit of 11.1 percent of gross domestic
product in the fiscal year through March, the highest since
World War II.  Cash Deficit  There was a public-sector cash requirement of 20.7 billion
pounds in September. Economists predicted 15.3 billion pounds.
The central-government cash deficit, the measure the Treasury
says most closely indicates gilt sales, was 24.8 billion pounds.
Net debt climbed to 57.2 percent of GDP from 55.9 percent.  The spending cuts, which begin in earnest in 2011, are
winning over investors. The 10-year U.K. government bond yield
has fallen 89 basis points to 3 percent since  David Cameron ’s
Conservative-led coalition took office in May.  Cameron aims to virtually eliminate the biggest peacetime
budget deficit by 2016, with cuts in ministries averaging 25
percent. In doing so, he risks widespread public opposition,
tensions with his Liberal Democrat coalition partners and a
possible backlash from departments forced to accept the deepest
cuts in order to ease the burden on defense and schools.  The Labour Party argues the scale of the fiscal tightening
risks derailing a recovery that is already showing signs of
cooling and that taxes on banks should play a bigger role.  “The spending review needs to tick a number of boxes,
particularly given the benefit of the doubt markets have already
given the U.K. government,”  Anthony O’Brien , an economist at
Morgan Stanley, said in a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 