-- U.K. Earmarks $3.5 Billion for Carbon Capture Plant, Green Investment Bank
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-10-20T14:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/u-k-earmarks-3-5-billion-for-carbon-capture-plant-green-investment-bank.html
The U.K. government pledged 2.2
billion pounds ($3.5 billion) for clean energy projects as it
cut spending across other departments, saying it was
safeguarding efforts to create jobs in new industries.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  earmarked as
much as 1 billion pounds for a carbon capture and storage
project that may go to  Iberdrola SA  and another 1 billion pounds
for a Green Investment Bank. Another 200 million pounds will go
for offshore wind technology and port facilities needed to
handle the turbines.  “When money is short, we should ruthlessly prioritize
those areas of public spending which are most likely to support
economic growth, including investments in our transport and
green energy infrastructure,” Osborne told Parliament today.  The measures were part of a broader package slashing 81
billion pounds of spending to curb a record budget deficit.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  aims for his Conservative-led
administration to be the “greenest” ever, targeting a 32
percent cut in CO2 emissions and 15 percent of U.K. energy
coming from renewable sources by 2020.  “Overall it’s a positive review for renewables and low-
carbon infrastructure,”  Richard Gledhill , global leader of
climate change at the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers,
said by telephone. “Osborne has done the best he can with the
hand he’s got. As far as being the greenest government ever,
it’s still a work in progress.”  Subsidies Maintained  Gledhill said the “one disappointment” was the funding
for the Green Investment Bank. The Aldersgate Group, a business
lobbyist that include Microsoft Corp. and  British Airways Plc ,
said last month 6 billion pounds would be needed in the bank
over the next four years to stimulate low carbon investment.  Osborne said he hoped that the 1 billion pounds put aside
now will be augmented by investment from private companies and
from funds raised from future sales of state-owned assets.  “I hope that much more will be raised,” Osborne said.  The Treasury also said it will maintain feed-in tariffs
granting above market prices to small-scale wind and solar
projects, according to a document posted on its website. Changes
will be made “at the next formal review,” it said.  When the previous government introduced the subsidy in
April, it said any changes to the system would come in April
2013. An energy department spokesman said the government may
review the tariffs earlier if installations exceed forecasts.  Home Heating  As much as 860 million pounds will be spent from 2011 to
spur household heating from renewable sources, the energy
department said in a statement on the Treasury website.  “Finally, renewable heat moves to the heart of U.K. energy
policy and ensures the U.K. acts to de-carbonize heat, which is
responsible for 47 percent of U.K. CO2 emissions,” Gaynor
Hartnell, chief executive officer of the Renewable Energy
Association lobby group, said in an e-mailed statement.  The government said its planned “green deal,” under which
utilities will pay to insulate homes, recovering the costs
through energy bills, will enable it to phase out its “warm
front” program, worth about 350 million pounds a year.  The carbon capture spending will go to one project, the
Treasury said. Iberdrola’s ScottishPower unit is the only bidder
for that work after  E.ON AG  dropped out earlier today. The
unproven technology, called CCS, aims to trap greenhouse gases
from power plants and pipe them underground.  Carbon Capture  The government still supports a goal of funding as many as
four demonstration CCS projects, though it may next year decide
to scrap the proposed levy on energy that was to fund them,
according to Treasury documents accompanying Osborne’s
statement. That may delay development of CCS, said  Jeff Chapman ,
head of the Carbon Capture and Storage Association.  “One billion pounds is enough for one project, but it’s
not enough for four,” Chapman said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve had plenty of delays with this technology, and we don’t
want more delays. We need to get on with this as quickly as
possible.”  The government also postponed the sale of carbon emission
permits to about 5,000 companies and organizations by a year to
2012 and said revenues will go to the government rather than be
distributed back among the participants according to their
performance.  The so-called Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency
Scheme, covering groups from Tesco Plc, the country’s biggest
supermarket chain, to hospitals, schools and the universities of
Cambridge and Oxford, will be “simplified to reduce the burden
on business,” the Treasury said.  Offshore Wind  At least 200 million pounds will be spent on manufacturing
facilities and port sites to boost offshore wind, the government
said. The exact amount going to ports will be announced in
coming days, an energy department spokesman said.  Companies including  Siemens AG ,  Vestas Wind Systems A/S  and
 General Electric Co . on Oct. 12 wrote to the Treasury saying a
planned 60 million-pound ports fund is vital to attract
Manufacturers to build wind turbine factories in Britain,
creating a possible 50,000 jobs.  “We’re protecting capital spending,” Cameron told
lawmakers today. “The carbon capture and storage projects,
they’re going ahead. The wind power projects, they’re going
ahead. The Green Investment Bank, we will put money into it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Alex Morales  in London
at   amorales2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 