-- U.K. 2-Year Bond Yield Falls to Record Low on Quantitative-Easing Outlook
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-21T16:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/u-k-bonds-rise-as-boe-minutes-show-growth-concern-spending-review-nears.html
Two-year U.K. gilts rose, pushing
yields to a record low, as an unexpected drop in retail sales
and speculation the Bank of England is near a second round of
debt purchases underpinned demand for the safest assets.  Thirty-year bonds also rose on concern the government’s 81-
billion-pound ($128 billion) spending-cut plan, unveiled
yesterday, will damp longer-term growth. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said the Bank of England has freedom to
use monetary policy if the fiscal squeeze hurts domestic demand.
September retail sales fell 0.2 percent from August, the Office
for National Statistics said today, compared with the median
prediction for a 0.3 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey.  “It has become a popular view in the market that we will
have another round of QE,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at
BNP Paribas SA in London, referring to the so-called
quantitative easing program. “It seems to be a matter of when
and not if. I have a more pessimistic view than consensus about
the economy.”  The yield on the 10-year note dropped four basis points to
2.94 percent at 4:42 p.m. in London. The yield on the two-year
gilt slipped to 0.56 percent, the lowest since Bloomberg began
gathering the data in 1992, before trading two basis points
lower on the day at 0.59 percent. Thirty-year U.K. bond yields
fell four basis points to 4.07 percent.  The central bank’s minutes, published yesterday, showed
some policy makers judged more economic stimulus was needed. The
Bank of England has kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent since March 2009 and bought 200 billion
pounds of government bonds to pump money through markets during
the financial crisis.  Posen’s View  “Gilt yields are likely to stay low and the bonds will
probably continue to outperform German debt because of the Bank
of England’s monetary policy,” BNP Paribas’s Clarke said.  Gilts returned investors 9.1 percent this year, beating an
8.5 percent gain from German debt, and are on par with U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  U.K. government bonds extended gains as Bank of England
policy maker  Adam Posen  said the recovery in the U.K. economy
appears “patchy.” He also said inflation is falling and will
continue to drop.  “The assessment I’m getting from the businesses I speak to
is largely in line with my personal take and the overall MPC
take, which is that we are having a recovery, but it’s not a
huge bustling, booming recovery,” he told the Midlands Business
Insider newspaper in an interview published on its website.  ‘Extraordinarily Expansionary’  His colleague  David Miles  expressed a “guardedly
optimistic” view about the economy and said that monetary
policy has been “extraordinarily expansionary.”  Investors should be cautious at current gilt yield levels
as it remains unclear if the economy will be weak enough to
warrant further easing by the central bank, said  Sam Hill , a
gilt strategist at RBC Capital Markets in London.  The U.K. Office for Budget Responsibility will publish new
forecasts for the economy based on the budget cuts on Nov. 29.  “It’s too big an assumption to expect the Bank of England
to follow the Fed down the route of more asset purchases in
November,” said Hill. “For gilt investors, positioning in
expectations of more QE from the Bank will be a nervous wait. If
the OBR doesn’t think the spending cuts materially alter the
economic forecasts, and there isn’t more private-sector data,
then the prospect for more QE will fade into the year-end.”  Budget Plan  Osborne has said measures to reduce the record deficit are
essential to prevent a loss of confidence from investors. His
budget plans would reduce public spending by 81 billion pounds
after inflation, narrowing a deficit the government forecasts at
10.1 percent of gross domestic product this year to 2.1 percent
of GDP in the 2014-15 fiscal year, he said yesterday. Debt
interest costs would fall by more than 5 billion pounds by 2015.  “We do have a long-term concern, but understand why
investors would feel reassured,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-
income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London.
“Time will tell if the government has taken more risk than the
private-sector recovery justifies. Until the day there is
something to suggest the plan is not working, investors will
respond positively.”  Gilt gains today outpaced those yesterday as some
institutional investors took time to digest the news from the
Chancellor, said  Matteo Regesta , an interest-rate strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in London.  “The delayed rally can be partly explained with the fact
that decisions to extend durations of domestic fixed-income
portfolios were taken after careful analysis of the
comprehensive spending review’s documents and likely
implications for asset classes going forward,” said Regesta.
“That takes some time. You don’t change asset allocation just
on the back of a one-hour speech.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  Stephen Morris  in London at 
   smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  