-- Military Can't Enforce `Don't Ask, Don't Tell' During Appeal, Judge Rules
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-10-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/u-s-loses-bid-to-stay-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-ruling-on-gays-in-military.html
The U.S. government can’t enforce
its “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy while it appeals a ruling
that gays and lesbians can’t be barred from serving openly in
the military, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Virginia Phillips  in Riverside,
California, yesterday rejected the government’s request for an
emergency stay on her order against enforcement of the policy
while it appeals. Phillips ruled on Sept. 9 that the policy
violates constitutionally protected due process and free speech
rights.  The government said in its Oct. 14 request that an
immediate implementation of Phillips’s ruling would disrupt a
Defense Department review of the statute.  “The court’s injunction affects the discharge and
separation from service of members of the armed forces pursuant
to the ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ Act,” the judge said in
yesterday’s decision. “The injunction would not impede the
defendants’ stated goals of amending policies and regulations
and developing education and training programs.”  President  Barack Obama  pledged in his January State of the
Union address to lift the prohibition on gays and lesbians
serving openly in the military. The Defense Department’s
findings on how the ban should be ended are scheduled to be
completed Dec. 1.  Tracy Schmaler , a spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment after
regular business hours yesterday.  The case is Log Cabin Republicans v. U.S., 04-08425, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 