-- U.S. Mortgage Applications Fall by the Most in Four Months as Rates Rise
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-20T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/u-s-mortgage-applications-fall-by-the-most-in-four-months-as-rates-rise.html
The number of mortgage applications
in the U.S. dropped last week by the most in four months, led by
a decrease in refinancing as mortgage rates rose.  The Mortgage Bankers Association’s  index  decreased 11
percent in the week ended Oct. 15, the biggest decline since
June, the Washington-based group said today.  Refinancing  fell 11
percent while purchases dropped 6.7 percent.  Unemployment  near a two-decade high, tight credit and
mounting foreclosures may keep home sales near record lows for
the rest of the year. The moratoria on home repossessions
brought on by faulty documentation at some of the largest U.S.
banks may further delay a recovery.  “People just don’t really have the confidence or ability
to buy a new home,”  Paul Dales , a U.S. economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in Toronto, said before the report. “A lot of
homeowners are constrained by accumulated debts or the fact that
they’re in negative equity.”  The decrease in  purchases  brought that index close to the
13-year low reached in July.  The average rate on a 30-year  fixed mortgage  increased to
4.34 percent from a record-low 4.21 percent the prior week,
today’s report showed. At that rate, monthly payments for each
$100,000 of a loan would be about $497, or $44 less than a year
ago when the rate was 5.07 percent.  The average rate on a 15-year fixed loan climbed to 3.74
percent from 3.62 percent, and the rate on a one-year adjustable
increased to 7.17 percent from 7.03 percent.  Less Refinancing  The share of applicants seeking to refinance a loan fell to
82.4 percent from 83.1 percent.  Concerns over banks’ foreclosure processes threaten to
unnerve the U.S. housing market,  David Crowe , the chief
economist of the Washington-based National Association of Home
Builders, said this week in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “You toss new uncertainty into a market that’s
already fragile,” he said.  Attorneys general in 50 states last week announced an
investigation into whether employees of lenders such as Ally
Financial Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Bank of America Corp. 
falsified documents used in foreclosure proceedings. Lenders
suspended foreclosures in many states after court documents
surfaced showing people working for mortgage firms signed papers
without checking their accuracy.  Fed Speculation  Speculation that the Federal Reserve may pursue large-scale
asset purchases to spur the economy has pushed down yields on
U.S. Treasury securities, driving mortgage rates to record lows.  KB Home , the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that focuses on
first-time buyers, last month reported a smaller third-quarter
loss as revenue increased for the first time in almost four
years. KB has been cutting costs amid the slump in sales and is
seeking to lure buyers with houses that are smaller and less
expensive than older designs.  Builders  unexpectedly began work on more homes in
September, a sign the real estate market was stabilizing at
depressed levels heading into the recent upheaval in the
foreclosure crisis, figures from the Commerce Department showed
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 Bobwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  