-- U.S. Lawmakers Request FCC to Review China's Huawei, ZTE
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-20T02:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/u-s-lawmakers-request-fcc-to-review-china-s-huawei-zte-on-security-risks.html
U.S. lawmakers asked the Federal
Communications Commission to review the security risks of
domestic companies ordering network equipment from China’s
Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp.  The Chinese companies are in "active" discussions to supply
at least two U.S. companies,  Sprint Nextel Corp.  and Cricket
Communications Inc., Senator Jon Kyl, an Arizona Republican,
wrote in a letter co-signed by three other lawmakers yesterday.  It’s at least the second time in two months that U.S.
lawmakers have prodded the Obama administration to review the
risks of buying Chinese telecommunications equipment. Eight U.S.
lawmakers on Aug. 18 warned that a Sprint contract with Huawei
would “undermine U.S. national security.”  Huawei spokesman Ross Gan said he had no immediate comment
today. In an Aug. 23 response to the prior letter from U.S.
lawmakers, Huawei, founded by a former officer in the Chinese
military, said it is an employee-owned private company and that
“government or military organizations do not hold any shares,
or control the company in any form.”  Last month, the Chinese equipment maker said it hired a
U.S. company to audit its programs and allay security concerns
as it seeks greater market access.  The latest letter to the FCC “unfairly characterizes
ZTE,” Bruce Reisenauer, president of ZTE Solutions in the U.S.,
said in an e-mail today.  ‘Xenophobic’ Letter  “The unsubstantiated allegations made in the letter are
disappointedly anti-competitive, protectionist and somewhat
xenophobic,” Reisenauer said.  Huawei and ZTE, China’s two biggest network-equipment
makers, are located in the city of Shenzhen in southern China.  Influence by the Chinese military may "create an
opportunity for manipulation of switches, routers, or software
embedded in American telecommunications network so that
communications can be disrupted, intercepted, tampered with, or
purposely misrouted," the U.S. lawmakers wrote yesterday.  A copy of the letter -- also signed by senators Joseph
Lieberman, an Independent from Connecticut; Susan Collins, a
Maine Republican; and Republican Representative Sue Myrick from
North Carolina -- was posted on the website of the Senate
Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs. Kyl and
Collins were also signatories to the August letter.  -- Edmond Lococo . Editors: Young-Sam Cho, Jonathan Annells  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  