-- U.S. Bancorp Profit Rises 51%, Exceeding Analysts' Estimates
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2010-10-20T22:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/u-s-bancorp-posts-third-quarter-earnings-45-cents-a-share-beats-estimate.html
U.S. Bancorp , the fifth-biggest U.S.
commercial bank by deposits, said third-quarter profit rose 51
percent, beating analysts’ estimates, as costs declined for
delinquent loans.  Net income increased to $908 million, or 45 cents a share,
from $603 million, or 30 cents, a year earlier, the Minneapolis-
based bank said today in a statement. The average estimate was
for 43 cents, according to a Bloomberg survey of 28 analysts.  Chief Executive Officer  Richard Davis , 52, has vowed to
counter slow industry growth by taking market share. The bank
expanded during the credit crisis, adding employees, upgrading
technology and buying failed lenders in government-backed deals.  “Record total net revenue and reduced credit costs drove
third-quarter net income,” Davis said in the statement. Gains
in fee-based businesses “were partly offset by expected
headwinds from recent legislative actions and current economic
conditions.”  The bank’s $995 million in new provisions for loan losses
were equal to net charge-offs, leaving the allowance for losses
at 3.1 percent of loans at the end of the period. In the same
quarter a year ago, the bank recorded $1.46 billion in
provisions, building reserves by $415 million. Credit quality
“continued to show noticeable improvement this quarter,” Davis
said in the statement.  Purchases Boost Lending  Revenue grew 7.9 percent to $4.59 billion over the same
period last year, according to the statement. Net interest
income climbed 15 percent to $2.48 billion. Net interest margin,
the difference between what the bank pays for funds and what it
gets for loans, increased to 3.91 percent from 3.67 percent a
year earlier. The margin was 3.9 percent in the second quarter.  Davis oversaw the lender’s government-assisted  purchases  of
failed banks and thrifts in 2008 and 2009, in which it added $35
billion of assets and more than 200 offices. As of June, the
company had $283 billion in  assets  and 3,002 branches, primarily
in the U.S. Midwest and West, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Average total loans outstanding increased 5.8 percent in
the third quarter to $192.5 billion from the year-earlier
period, according to the statement. Without acquisitions, all
loans would have declined 0.4 percent, the bank said.  Demand from creditworthy businesses is getting stronger,
Davis said. “We are seeing it across the board, slowly, just a
little bit and just about everywhere,” he said. The bank’s
average commercial loans outstanding increased 1.6 percent from
the second quarter, according to the report.  ‘Forged Ahead’  The lender made $54.8 billion in new loans and financing
commitments to businesses and individuals in the quarter, the
statement shows. That is 18 percent more than what it reported
in the second quarter.  “They forged ahead when others were backing down,”  Jason Goldberg , an analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, said
in an interview before today’s announcement.  The bank is likely to acquire weaker lenders as the
industry consolidates, analysts including  Richard Bove  of
Rochdale Securities LLC in Lutz, Florida have said.  U.S. Bancorp rose 0.1 percent to $22.83 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading today. The shares are up 1.4 percent
this year.  The company, which remained profitable during the credit
crisis, generally outperforms peers, credit-rating company
 Standard & Poor’s  wrote in an Aug. 4 report. Almost half the
bank’s revenue comes from fees and other non-interest sources,
S&P said. It is the fourth-biggest U.S. processor of card
transactions for merchants, ranked by sales, according to S&P.  Foreclosure Practices  U.S. lenders are reviewing foreclosure practices and
delaying some seizures amid claims they made misstatements in
court filings. U.S. Bancorp’s controls are working, and an
industrywide moratorium on proceedings “should be avoided in
the interest of the national economic recovery,” Davis said in
the statement.  New government limits on overdraft fees have cost the bank
about $140 million in revenue so far this year and will cost
about $450 million annually in the future, Chief Financial
Officer  Andrew Cecere  said on a conference call. The burden is
“slightly lower” than the bank’s previous estimate, he said. A
new credit-card law will cost $250 million a year, he said.  Expenses from buying back mortgages from investors will run
$50 million to $70 million “over the next few quarters,”
Cecere said. The bank added $70 million to repurchase reserves
in the quarter and realized $24 million in losses from
warranties on mortgages it had sold, according to its  website .  Dividend a ‘Top Priority’  “Increasing the  dividend  remains a top priority,” Davis
said. The firm cut its quarterly payment in March 2009 to 5
cents a share from 42.5 cents. Regulators must first clarify
pending capital requirements and will probably look at banks
individually when signaling support for increases, he said. “We
fully expect to be one of the first banks to gain approval to
raise our dividend once the guidelines have been determined.”  Davis said he aims to boost deposits and lending for growth
that outpaces the economy. Average deposits grew 9.8 percent to
$183 billion in the quarter, compared with a year earlier, the
company said. Without acquisitions, deposits grew 2.7 percent.  “I have instructed my team to be aggressive on deposit
gathering,” he said. The bank that ends the economic slump with
the most deposits to fund lending “will end up winning the next
cycle,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Henry  in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  