-- U.S. Gulf Coast Faces $350 Billion in Climate Damage by 2030, Study Shows
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2010-10-20T18:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/u-s-gulf-coast-faces-350-billion-in-climate-damage-by-2030-study-shows.html
The U.S. Gulf Coast may face $350
billion in economic damage by 2030 as extreme weather fueled by
climate change wreaks havoc on the region, according to a study
released today by  Entergy Corp .  The estimate assumes severe weather similar to Hurricane
Katrina -- a storm that crippled the region in 2005 -- will
occur every generation rather than once a century, according to
the study by  Swiss Re , a Zurich-based reinsurer, and McKinsey &
Co., a New York-based research firm. New Orleans-based Entergy,
the second-largest U.S. producer of electricity from nuclear
reactors behind  Exelon Corp ., commissioned the report.  The study recommends spending $50 billion for projects such
as overhauling building codes and reinforcing beaches and
wetlands to curb losses. The region, which suffers an average
annual loss of $14 billion, may lose as much as $23 billion a
year from “extreme” climate change, the report said.  “With the multiplier effect, the amount of economic loss
to the Gulf Coast could rise to $700 billion, the gross domestic
product for the entire region for one year,” Entergy Chief
Executive Officer  J. Wayne Leonard  said today in a statement.
The study is a “call to arms for policy makers,” he said.  Katrina, the third-deadliest U.S. hurricane, wiped out 80
square miles of marsh within hours when it struck five years
ago, four times the average amount lost by all of Louisiana in a
year. Scientists say climate change caused by burning fossil
fuels such as oil and coal will lead to more frequent and severe
storms, droughts and heat waves.  Further, the  BP Plc  oil spill in April in the Gulf of
Mexico, the worst in the U.S., hurt the region’s economy and
threatened already fragile ecosystems.  Levees, Canals  The Gulf Coast copes with erosion tied to decades of
building canals, levees and dams to control flooding, ease
navigation and aid oil-and-gas exploration. Such projects choke
off the flow of Mississippi River sediment that sustains
wetlands, which harbor plants and wildlife and function as
natural sponges to protect coastlines.  Taking steps to protect the coastline may let Gulf Coast
communities avoid about $135 billion in losses a year, according
to the report.  The region has more than $2 trillion in assets, including
50,000 oil and gas structures such as pipelines and wells. That
total is expected to increase to more than $3 trillion by 2030,
according to the report, which was commissioned by Entergy with
 America’s Wetland Foundation , a New Orleans-based advocacy group
focused on conserving coastal Louisiana.  Entergy rose 64 cents to $77.17 at 2:46 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 6.5
percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 