-- U.S. Treasury Says Currencies to Be at Center of G-20 Talks
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-10-20T19:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/u-s-treasury-says-currencies-trade-flows-will-be-at-center-of-g-20-talks.html
Currencies and trade flows will be
at the center of talks as Group of 20 finance ministers try to
resolve differences over exchange-rate policies, a U.S. Treasury
Department official said.  Some emerging-market nations are resisting market forces
and keeping their currencies undervalued, creating a competitive
dynamic of resisting market forces, the official told reporters,
speaking on condition of anonymity. The U.S. wants foreign-
exchange rates to reflect market forces and economic
fundamentals, the aide said.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  is traveling this
week to Gyeongju, South Korea, to meet with his counterparts as
tensions heat up over China’s currency. The finance ministers
and central bankers gathering Oct. 22-23 will also try to make
progress on ensuring that nations resolve current-account
imbalances, the official said. The talks on coordinating
economic policies are aimed at crafting an agenda for a summit
of global political leaders next month in Seoul.  “The weapon of choice today is a competitive
devaluation,” Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz 
said today in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays
Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . “Of course, not everybody can
weaken their currency relative to others.”  “I think of it as a negative beauty contest,” Stiglitz
said of exchange rates.  Currency Report Delayed  Secretary Geithner last week delayed a report on foreign-
exchange markets, saying the yuan remained undervalued and that
China needed to show continued commitment to allowing the
currency to rise against the dollar over time. The yuan has
risen 2.6 percent since a two-year peg against the dollar was
scrapped on June 19.  Without specifically naming China, the Treasury official
said the actions of a country acting alone can present a
challenge that should be the focus of G-20 discussions.  The G-20 must help the International Monetary Fund fulfill
its role overseeing global monetary systems, the official said.
The IMF needs to give countries frank evaluations of their
exchange-rate policies and how they accumulate reserves, the
aide said.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said yesterday that
the finance chiefs need to reach a “bargain” to coordinate
economic policies, though real agreement would require a
“revolution.”  ‘Grand Bargain’  “What is needed now is a grand bargain among the major
players in the world economy,” King said in a speech to
business leaders in Dudley, England. “A bargain that recognizes
the benefits of compromise on the real path of economic
adjustment in order to avoid the damaging consequences of a move
towards protectionism.”  King isn’t alone expressing concern with the outlook for
global policy making. European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  said Oct. 16 that coordination of macroeconomic
policy is the “least advanced” area of global governance.  Today’s call for cooperation comes as Brazil’s top economic
officials are unlikely to attend the G-20 meeting.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  will probably stay
in Brazil to oversee implementation of measures aimed at curbing
gains in the currency, a spokesman for Mantega said yesterday.
Central Bank President  Henrique Meirelles  is not traveling to
the G-20 summit because it conflicts with the bank’s monetary
policy meeting this week, the bank said in a statement. He will
be replaced in South Korea by  Luiz Pereira , the bank’s director
for international affairs.  Brazil has been more willing to relax its exchange-rate
controls and is now finding that approach difficult to sustain
because of actions taken by other large emerging-market nations,
the U.S. official said. Brazil and India are now framing the
issues that the G-20 will need to tackle, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  