-- U.S. Consults Pakistan on Role in Afghanistan-Taliban Reconciliation Talks
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-10-21T00:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/u-s-consults-pakistan-on-role-in-afghanistan-taliban-reconciliation-talks.html
The U.S. and Pakistan are discussing
the role the Asian nation, striving to rebuild an economy
devastated by floods, can play in reconciliation talks between
neighboring Afghanistan and the Taliban.  U.S. and Pakistani officials, led by Foreign Minister  Shah Mahmood Qureshi , are conducting three days of strategic talks in
Washington on a range of issues, including ways Pakistan can do
more in the fight against militants. It is the third such
session by the two countries since March.  “We have assured Pakistan that it has an appropriate role
to play in resolving the situation in Afghanistan,” State
Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said yesterday. “We will
discuss within the strategic dialogue this week ways in which
Pakistan can be part of this broader effort.”  Pakistan will help Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  “wherever
and however” in his tentative talks with Taliban militants,
Qureshi said last week. Reconciliation talks between the Taliban
and the government in Afghanistan are a key part of the U.S.
strategy to bring peace to that country after nine years of war.  U.S. support for integrating the Taliban into the
government depends on the militants’ willingness to end
violence, renounce terrorism and accept the Afghan constitution,
with its guarantees of women’s rights.  President  Barack Obama , who is visiting India in November,
will travel to Pakistan next year, according to a White House
statement yesterday. Obama has invited Pakistan’s President  Asif Ali Zardari  to visit the U.S., Qureshi said.  Fighting Militants  U.S. and Pakistani defense officials will also discuss this
week how to increase Pakistan’s military contributions in the
fight against militants on its borders with Afghanistan.
“Clearly, while we’ve seen aggressive action by the Pakistani
military in recent months, more has to be done,” Crowley said.  “There is no wavering in Pakistan’s resolve to fight
extremism and terrorism, as our nation has suffered the most at
hands of the scourge,” Qureshi said yesterday at the  Brookings
Institution , a policy research center in Washington. “We have
stated that fighting terrorism remains a strategic and moral
imperative.”  The U.S. is planning a security package totaling as much as
$2 billion to help Pakistan fight extremists on the border with
Afghanistan, CNN reported on its website, citing unidentified
diplomatic officials. The package will address Pakistan’s
concerns that it lacks the capability to pursue terrorists, CNN
said.  ‘Fundamental’ Strategy  Crowley said Pakistani officials have met with Afghan
officials to discuss taking part in reconciliation talks. Asked
about reports that Pakistan’s intelligence services may be
trying to disrupt talks between Pakistan and the Taliban, he
said, “We do not want to see efforts by any entity to prevent
political reconciliation. This is a fundamental part of our
strategy.”  The discussions to bring Taliban members into the
government don’t involve Americans, Crowley said. The U.S. has
“some knowledge of what’s going on” and has helped facilitate
meetings between members of the Taliban and Afghan leaders, he
said.  The U.S. has “complete confidence that the Afghan
government shares our view that any group that seeks
reconciliation must renounce violence, cut any ties to al-Qaeda
and support the Afghan constitution, which enshrines fundamental
rights for men and women in Afghanistan,” Crowley said.  The meetings with Pakistan involve 13 groups focusing on a
variety of issues, including water, agriculture, communications
and security.  Flood Response  The primary focus of this round of talks will be examining
the response to recent floods in Pakistan, said  Frank Ruggiero ,
the U.S. deputy special representative to Afghanistan and
Pakistan. The floods, which covered an area as large as Italy,
killed 1,800 people and affected 20 million, Ruggiero said.  ”Let me be clear: we do not seek dependence but economic
viability,” Qureshi said.  The groups will also appraise the implementation of an aid
pledge Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  made in July. Clinton
announced $500 million in new aid programs, most of which went
to improve the management of, access to and storage of water.
Other projects included boosting food exports, opening credits
for small to medium-sized businesses and fighting infectious
diseases.  The defense working group within the U.S.-Pakistan
strategic dialogue is set to meet this afternoon, Crowley said.  “We’ll have more to say about deliverables” later in the
week, he said in response to questions about further aid
packages for Pakistan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  