-- Fed: U.S. Economy Expands at `Modest Pace' in September
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2010-10-20T19:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/u-s-economy-grew-at-a-modest-pace-in-september-early-october-fed-says.html
The Federal Reserve said the U.S.
economy expanded at a “modest pace” in September and early
October with little sign of accelerating and companies still
hesitant to hire.  Eight Fed banks, including San Francisco and Chicago,
reported some form of growth, the Fed said today in its Beige
Book business survey by the 12 regional banks, released two
weeks before each meeting of central bank policy makers. The
Philadelphia and Richmond Fed banks said their economies were
“mixed” while the Cleveland region “held steady” and the
Atlanta district “remained slow” with falling retail sales.  The report may fail to show the kind of pickup in the
economy that would deter policy makers from further easing
monetary policy to boost  job growth  and inflation that’s too
slow for the Fed. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 15 that
there’s a case for  additional stimulus  because inflation is too
low and unemployment is too high.  “We’re just kind of limping along, with any improvement
being anemic,” said  Doug Roberts , chief investment strategist
at Channel Capital Research, a macroeconomic investment research
firm in Shrewsbury, New Jersey.  U.S. stocks rose and the dollar slid the most against the
euro since July while reaching a 15-year low versus the yen amid
speculation the Fed will pump more cash into the economy to spur
growth.  Three-Day Rally  The dollar snapped a three-day rally against the euro,
losing 1.6 percent to $1.3956 versus the common currency, and
sank to as low as 80.85 yen. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
increased 1.2 percent to 1,180.06 at 3:08 p.m. in New York after
slumping 1.6 percent yesterday for its biggest drop in two
months.  Today’s release, which provides an anecdotal snapshot of
the U.S. economy, includes a national summary by the Dallas Fed
and is based on information collected on or before Oct. 8. The
Fed’s Open Market Committee next meets Nov. 2-3 in Washington.  “On balance, national economic activity continued to rise,
albeit at a modest pace,” the Fed said in the national summary.
Manufacturing expanded, consumer spending was “steady to up
slightly” and companies had trouble passing on higher input
costs to customers, the report said.  ‘Moderate Pace’  In the previous report Sept. 8, the Fed said the economy
maintained its expansion while showing “widespread signs of a
deceleration” in mid-July through the end of August. Five
regional banks reported “economic growth at a moderate pace”
and two pointed to “positive developments or net
improvements.” The remaining five banks said conditions were
mixed or decelerating.  Overall U.S. “hiring remained limited, with many firms
reluctant to add to permanent payrolls given economic
softness,” the Fed said in the report.  The unemployment rate was unchanged at 9.6 percent in
September, near the 26-year high of 10.1 percent in October
2009. U.S. employers eliminated 95,000 jobs, compared with the
median analyst estimate of a loss of 5,000 jobs; private
companies added 64,000 workers, below estimates of 75,000.  The Fed said that even with “slightly” higher production
costs, final prices for goods and services were “stable”
across the country. Still, “there were scattered reports of
increases” at manufacturers and restaurants, and the Fed
received “widespread reports” that companies anticipated
higher employee-benefit costs because of changes to health-care
law.  Preferred Gauge  Inflation, measured by central bankers’ preferred gauge of
the personal consumption expenditures price index, minus food
and energy, has been below the Fed’s goal for five consecutive
months. The price measure rose 1.4 percent for the 12 months
ending August. Bernanke last week cited the index’s 1.1 percent
annual pace for the first eight months of 2010. Fed officials’
long-term preferred range for the inflation rate is about 1.7
percent to 2 percent.  Consumer spending was “flat to moderately positive” in
most regions, the Fed said. “Retailers said consumers are
slowly regaining confidence, but remain price-conscious and were
largely limiting purchases to necessities and nondiscretionary
items.”  Some districts reported gains in household goods and
apparel, and some firms in the New York area planned to hire
more staff for the holiday shopping season, the Fed said.  Sales Climbed  Retail sales in the U.S. climbed 0.6 percent in September,
more than forecast, following a 0.7 percent gain in August that
was larger than previously estimated. At the same time, the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment decreased to 67.9 this month, the lowest
since July, from 68.2 in September.  “What you seem to have is a disconnect between the economy
and markets, where companies are adjusting to the new
environment and cutting to the bone, but still able to make
their numbers,” Roberts said. Meanwhile, the liquidity being
provided by the Fed’s actions is “benefitting larger businesses
primarily” and not helping consumers as much.  Housing markets were “weak,” with “sluggish or
declining” sales in many regions, the Fed said. There were
“scattered reports of some improvement.” “Respondents’
outlooks suggested sales and construction would remain subdued
through year-end,” restrained in part by lending standards and
“general economic uncertainty,” the Fed said.  More Homes  Data released this month showed that builders in the U.S.
began work on  more homes  in September than economists expected,
with housing starts at a 610,000 annual rate. Still, that’s less
than one-third of the record 2.3 million pace in January 2006.
The housing market, in both construction and sales, “remains
depressed,” New York Fed President  William Dudley  said
yesterday.  Business demand for loans “remained weak” and commercial
real estate lending was “subdued,” the Fed said. For
consumers, “lending was sluggish, but there were scattered
reports of improvement,” the Fed said.  Bernanke said last week that large companies “in good
financial condition can obtain credit in capital markets easily
and on favorable terms,” while smaller firms “continue to face
significantly greater problems in obtaining credit” because of
weaker balance sheets and “tight lending standards.”  Manufacturing expanded in most regions, with several
reporting production or order increases “across a wide range of
industries,” the Fed said. Exports helped activity in the
Cleveland, Chicago, and Kansas City regions, the Fed said.  That compares with data showing production in the U.S.
dropped 0.2 percent in September, the first decline in more than
a year, according to figures from the Fed earlier this week.
Capacity utilization, which measures the amount of a plant in
use, decreased to 74.7 percent last month from 74.8 percent in
August. The gauge averaged 80 percent over the past 20 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net 
 Vivien Lou Chen  in New York at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  