-- U.S. Architect Billings Increase for the First Time Since 2008
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2010-10-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/u-s-architect-billings-increase-for-the-first-time-in-almost-three-years.html
Billings by U.S. architects, a
barometer of demand in commercial real estate, rose in September
for the first time in almost three years, suggesting a recovery
in construction spending might be under way, a survey showed.  The Architecture Billings Index increased to 50.4 from 48.2
in August, the first gain in fees since January 2008, when the
index was at 51.1, according to the Washington-based  American
Institute of Architects . Any reading above 50 indicates an
increase in billings.  Demand for architects’ services have started to rebound
after the recession, spurred by the global credit crisis, drove
the index down to 33.9 in January 2009, the lowest since the
institute began tracking the data in 1995. Housing starts in the
U.S. also rose in September, surpassing economists’ estimates,
the Commerce Department said yesterday.  “We’re moving in the right direction,”  Kermit Baker ,
chief economist of the architects’ institute, said in a
telephone interview. “It certainly looks like a sustainable
recovery on the commercial and industrial side.”  Commercial construction spending typically lags behind
design work by nine to 12 months, according to the institute.
About 35 percent to 40 percent of the index reflects billing for
office buildings, hotels, shopping centers, banks, warehouses,
manufacturing plants and other commercial properties.  Fifth Straight Gain  The index for commercial and industrial billings rose to
56.3 from 54.6 in August, the fifth straight gain. The billings
indexes for residential projects such as apartment buildings and
condominiums, and for institutional work including schools and
hospitals, remained below 50 in September, suggesting demand is
still falling for those projects.  Residential accounts for about 15 percent of the overall
index, and institutional for 45 percent to 50 percent, Baker
said.  A  separate index  that measures client interest in new
projects also rose, climbing to 62.3, the highest since July
2007, from 54.6 in August, the institute said.  The  Architecture Billings Index  is based on a survey of
firms owned by members of the American Institute of Architects.
Participants are asked each month whether their billings rose,
fell or stayed the same in the month just ended, and their
responses are used to generate the index score.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hui-yong Yu  in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  