-- U.S. Asks Federal Appeals Court to Delay `Don't Ask, Don't Tell' Decision
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m   a n d   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-20T21:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/u-s-asks-federal-appeals-court-to-delay-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-decision.html
The Obama administration asked a
federal appeals court to immediately delay implementation of a
ruling throwing out the U.S. military’s “Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell” policy on gays in the armed forces.  The government asked the court in San Francisco to take
action today to postpone the ruling after the federal district
judge in California who issued it last month refused an
emergency request from the administration yesterday to put off
implementation.  U.S. District Judge  Virginia Phillips  in Riverside,
California, ruled Sept. 9 that the policy, which prohibits gays
and lesbians from serving openly in the military, violates
constitutionally protected due process and free speech rights.  President  Barack Obama  supports repeal of “Don’t Ask,
Don’t Tell,” the government said in today’s filing. An end to
the policy can only occur after advance planning and training,
the filing says. The Defense Department’s findings on how the
ban should be ended are scheduled to be completed Dec. 1.  Phillips’s order “risks causing significant immediate harm
to the military and its efforts to be prepared to implement an
orderly repeal of the statute,” the U.S. said in today’s filing
with the federal appeals court in San Francisco.  Log Cabin Republicans, the plaintiffs in the case,
“demonstrated the Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell Act, on its face,
violates the constitutional rights of its members,” Phillips
wrote in her September opinion.  ‘Permanent Injunction’  The group is entitled to “a judicial declaration to that
effect and a permanent injunction barring further enforcement of
the Act,” she said then.  The Log Cabin Republicans urged the appeals court not to
postpone enforcement of the ruling, according to a filing today.
The government already instructed field recruiting offices to
process enlistment paperwork from openly gay and lesbian
applicants, the filing said.  “The fact that the government can and did issue such
instructions and comply with the injunction immediately shows
that the military will not sustain irreparable harm from
compliance and belies the need for any temporary stay,” lawyers
for the group said in the filing.  The lower court case is Log Cabin Republicans v. U.S., 04-
08425, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Riverside). The appeal is Log Cabin Republicans v. U.S., 10-
56634, 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  