-- UBS Sells Credit-Linked Notes Offering Access to Spanish Government Debt
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-10-20T09:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/ubs-credit-linked-notes-offer-access-to-spanish-government-debt.html
UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank,
sold $2.5 million of eight-year credit-linked notes linked to
Spanish government debt with a minimum coupon of 4 percent.  The payment is based on the three-month London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, plus income from Spain’s 5.5 percent
bonds due 2017, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
notes’ coupon increases if Libor, currently 0.29 percent, rises
above 4 percent, a level it last reached in October 2008.  Credit-linked notes are tied to the creditworthiness of a
country or company, and are usually sold to investors who may
have difficulty accessing the underlying bonds. The cost of
insuring Spain’s debt with credit-default swaps dropped to 204
basis points from a record 274 in May, according to CMA prices,
as lawmakers backed the most austere budget in three decades
that aims to cut the country’s deficit by a third.  “You haven’t had good liquidity in the peripheral bond
market in the last three years so CLNs offer an alternative
entrance to cash,” said  Serafi Rodriguez , a fixed-income trader
at Banc Internacional D’Andorra in Andorra. “We aren’t worried
about the future of Spain. The PIIGS crisis is exaggerated,” he
said, referring to term used by some investors for Portugal,
Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain.  The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds was unchanged at 4.03
percent. The spread spread over benchmark German government
bonds has narrowed to 169 basis points from 176 basis points a
month ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spain is rated AA by Standard & Poor’s and AA+ by Fitch
Ratings. Investors face losing money on the securities if the
country defaults.  Credit-default swaps are used to speculate on a company’s
ability to repay debt. A basis point on a credit swap protecting
10 million euros ($13.8 million) of debt from default is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  