-- UnitedHealth Alters Pay Rules on Cancer Treatments
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-10-20T20:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/unitedhealth-alters-pay-rules-for-doctors-as-cancer-drugs-top-20-billion.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. , the biggest
U.S. health insurer by sales, will pay cancer doctors to stop
marking up the prices of drugs, in a test aimed at reducing
costs for medical plans and their customers.  Physicians serving 1,500 cancer patients in Georgia,
Missouri, Ohio, Tennessee and Texas will receive reimbursement
for the wholesale cost of medicine they administer, plus a fee
that will stay the same regardless of the drugs involved,
UnitedHealth said today in a statement.  That will erase an economic incentive for doctors to
prescribe more-costly drugs, as physicians now buy the medicines
from drugmakers and charge as much as 30 percent more when
submitting claims to insurers, said Lee Newcomer, UnitedHealth’s
senior vice president for oncology for UnitedHealth, based in
Minnetonka, Minnesota. Cancer drugs account for 60 percent of
income for oncologists, Newcomer said.  “If they are using expensive drugs, that’s OK -- we’re
going to reimburse for the cost of that,” Newcomer said. “But
they’re not going to make any more or less profit off of it, and
we’re not going to pay inflated prices for a drug.”  Newcomer said it’s unclear how much money the experimental
system may save  UnitedHealth . Its commercial insurance unit,
UnitedHealthcare, spent $1.1 billion on injectible chemotherapy
drugs in 2009, about a quarter of the company’s cancer-care
spending, he said.  UnitedHealth rose $1.43 cents, or 4.1 percent, to $36.73 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, its biggest
single-day increase in 10 months. The shares  increased  42
percent in the past 12 months.  $20 Billion Market  U.S. outlays on oncology drugs reached $20 billion last
year, led by products from  Roche Holdings AG  of Basel,
Switzerland, and  Sanofi-Aventis SA  of Paris, according to  IMS
Health Inc. , a research company in Norwalk, Connecticut.  The insurer, in its statement, said it developed the system
with practices in Dayton, Ohio; Kansas City, Missouri; Marietta,
Georgia; Fort Worth, Texas, and Memphis, Tennessee. In each
area, doctors established “best-practice” drug regimens for
forms of  breast , colon and lung cancer, the three most common
tumors, Newcomer said.  From those decisions, UnitedHealth calculated so-called
episode fees -- the amounts that doctors will receive each time
they give medicine to a patient -- based on what the insurer
normally has paid for each set of treatments in 2010. Doctors
can deviate from the regimens and choose other drugs, and
UnitedHealth will cover the wholesale cost, Newcomer said. What
it won’t do is pay any markup beyond the episode fee, he said.  Revenue Effect  How much the program may hurt doctors’ earnings isn’t
clear. While the system is designed not to crimp physicians’
revenue in the first year, it may eventually pay doctors less
than they would have made by choosing more-profitable drugs,
Newcomer said.  Bruce Gould, a doctor at  Northwest Georgia Oncology
Centers , the Marietta practice in the pilot program, said he’s
willing to take that chance because doctors see the U.S. health-
care system as unsustainable, and are concerned that government
and private payers may impose bigger cuts if oncologists don’t
find their own solutions.  The pilot project will help counter a “skewed reimbursement
system” that pays oncologists more for drugs than for office
visits, nutritional care or psychological counseling, Gould said
in a telephone interview.  ‘Half-Baked Idea’  “We want to be part of the solution and not have somebody
else’s half-baked idea thrust upon us,” Gould said. His
practice won’t lose money because “we’ve never played the drug-
margins game,” he said.  UnitedHealth and doctors declined to say how much the
episode fees pay. They typically cover six months to a year of
care for patients recovering from surgery to remove a tumor.
Office visits, laboratory work and nurses’ time are paid
separately.  Cancer patients will be helped because the program asks
oncologists to share data about which medicines work best, said
Charles Bane, medical director at  Dayton Physicians Hematology &
Oncology  in Dayton, Ohio. That should help fill in gaps that
have made it hard to judge new drugs, and potentially lead to
fewer relapses or side effects for patients, said Bane, whose
medical practice is participating in the program.  Roche Drugs  Three Roche drugs -- Avastin, MabThera and Herceptin --
were the top-selling oncology drugs in the U.S. last year,
generating $6.81 billion in revenue, according to IMS. Taxotere,
sold by Paris-based  Sanofi , was fourth, with $1.18 billion in
sales, IMS said.  Roche caps Avastin costs at $57,000 a year for patients who
enroll in the company’s subsidy program, said Kent Lieginger, a
senior vice-president at the company’s Genentech unit in South
San Francisco, California. The drugmaker doesn’t see
UnitedHealth’s program as a threat, Lieginger said.  “We’re very confident in the profile and the efficacy of
our product,” Lieginger said in a telephone interview. “We
don’t really fear ultimately any of these changes” in
reimbursement.  Jack Cox, a Sanofi spokesman, didn’t return messages seeking
comment.  UnitedHealth appears to have struck a balance between
protecting patients and fixing incentives that push some doctors
toward unnecessary or unproven care, said Stephen Finan, policy
director at the  American Cancer Society  in Atlanta, which isn’t
part of the project.  “UnitedHealth seems to be taking the right approach in
saying they are willing to pay for a treatment as long as it’s
evidence-based,” Finan said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  