-- United Technologies Profit Rises 13%, Led by Pratt & Whitney
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-10-20T20:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/united-technologies-profit-rises-13-led-by-pratt-whitney.html
United Technologies Corp.  said
third-quarter profit rose 13 percent, exceeding analysts’
estimates, helped by gains at Pratt & Whitney jet engines and
the purchase of GE Security.  Net income rose to $1.2 billion, or $1.30 a share, from
$1.06 billion, or $1.14, the Hartford, Connecticut-based company
said in a statement today.  Analysts  had expected $1.28, the
average estimate of 17 analysts from a Bloomberg survey. Revenue
rose 1 percent to $13.5 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  has pared costs
including jobs in the past two years to leverage profit growth
as the economy improves. The aerospace units reaped benefits
from a rise in commercial flights worldwide. Profit rose in all
six main units, led by Pratt, while sales were little changed or
fell at Otis elevators, Carrier air conditioners and Sikorsky.  “With aero orders picking up strongly, we think third-
quarter results bodes well for UTX’s outlook for the rest of the
year and going into 2011,”  Robert Stallard , an RBC Capital
Markets analyst who has an “outperform” rating on the stock,
wrote in a note to clients.  United Technologies rose 31 cents to $73.92 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have
climbed 6.5 percent this year.  “The stock has had a good run in recent weeks and may
already be pricing in this solid performance,”  Joseph Nadol , a
JPMorgan Securities analyst, said in a note to clients today. He
rates the company “overweight.”  Profit Forecast  The company raised its 2010  profit forecast  to $4.70 a
share, the high end of its previous prediction’s range,
including anticipated restructuring costs. Analysts predicted
$4.71, the average of 18 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
company posted earnings of $4.12 a share in 2009.  Chenevert increased restructuring plans by $100 million,
bringing per-share cost for job reductions and other measures to
28 cents a share this year, Chief Financial Officer  Greg Hayes 
said on a conference call with analysts.  Commercial engine spare parts orders at Pratt & Whitney
rose 35 percent in the quarter.  “Commercial aerospace aftermarket orders have rebounded
nicely but the commercial construction markets remain weak,”
Chenevert said in the statement. “Additional restructuring will
further position us for solid earnings growth in the years
ahead.”  Security Business  The company added General Electric Co.’s security business
earlier this year to its UTC Fire & Security unit.  Chenevert said in September that he expected to make small
purchases in the fire and security unit and potentially in the
aerospace divisions.  United Technologies this week bought the 51 percent portion
of Clipper Windpower Plc that it didn’t already own, giving the
company a total value of 139.5 million pounds ($222 million). In
the quarter, United Technologies recorded an impairment charge
of $159 million, according to the statement.  “Importantly, the company took the Clipper Wind write-off
in the quarter,”  Jeffrey Sprague , an analyst at Vertical
Research Partners, said in an note to clients. “Given that the
deal was announced earlier this week, no one was anticipating
this charge in the third-quarter results.”  Research and development costs will rise to about $225
million and may be higher in 2011 if Airbus SAS decides to offer
new engines on its A320 models, including the PurePower geared
turbofan engine from Pratt & Whitney, CFO Hayes said.  “We still are working actively with the team at Airbus and
I think as you’ve heard many times they are trying to sort out
where they are in engineering resources before they launch this
program,” Hayes said. “We fully expect this to be launched
before the end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 