-- UnitedHealth Group Sells $750 Million of Bonds in First Issue Since 2008
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-20T21:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/unitedhealth-group-sells-750-million-of-bonds-in-first-issue-since-2008.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. , the biggest
U.S. health insurer by revenue, issued $750 million of debt in
its first bond offering since February 2008.  The insurer sold $450 million of 10-year notes that yield
145 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and $300
million of 30-year debt at 185 basis-point spread, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Proceeds will be added to general
funds and may be used to meet working capital requirements,
repurchase or refinance outstanding securities, or to fund
acquisitions, UnitedHealth said today in a regulatory filing.  UnitedHealth reported third-quarter earnings yesterday that
beat analyst estimates, as a jobless rate of more than 9 percent
kept Americans away from the doctor this year. The Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based company said  2011 profit  may decline because of
rising medical costs and the U.S. health-care overhaul. In
October, health-care debt has lost 0.1 percent, compared with a
0.59 percent gain on all corporate bonds, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  “There is uncertainty as always with election time, and in
any hot-spot topic like health care, it definitely comes into
play when you look at risks within a sector,” said  Rajeev Sharma , a money manager at First Investors Management, who helps
oversee $1.4 billion investment-grade debt in New York.
“Investors expect to be compensated for potential risks.”  Don Nathan , a spokesman for UnitedHealth, declined to
comment on the offering beyond the regulatory filing.  Health-Care Debt  Debt from health-care companies, including UnitedHealth and
competitors  WellPoint Inc.  and  Cigna Corp ., has returned 12.1
percent this year, on par with overall corporate debt, the index
data show.  In its previous bond sale, UnitedHealth issued $3 billion
of senior unsecured debt in four parts, Bloomberg data show.  On March 23, President  Barack Obama  signed legislation
designed to extend insurance coverage to 32 million Americans.
The Obama administration and state insurance commissioners are
still drafting regulations to implement new spending rules, and
UnitedHealth can’t make a more precise forecast for 2011 before
the rule is finished, UnitedHealth Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Hemsley  said yesterday on a conference call.  He said he may have more information by the insurer’s
investor conference in New York on Nov. 30.  UnitedHealth’s new issue was graded Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service and A-, a step higher, by Standard & Poor’s,
the rating companies said in separate notes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  