-- Murder, Suicide, Fraud Plus Nuns Make `Trittico' Irresistible
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2010-10-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/murder-suicide-fraud-plus-nuns-make-il-trittico-irresistible-review.html
A murder in modern Paris, a suicide
in a 17th-century convent, an inheritance swindle in 13th-
century Florence -- it’s hard to imagine stranger bedfellows
than the three parts of “Il Trittico.”  No wonder the Triptych, the last stage work Puccini
completed, is often ripped apart and combined with other one-act
operas: “Il Tabarro,” or the Cloak, was last seen in Paris
with “I Pagliacci”; “Gianni Schicchi,” Puccini’s only comic
opera, was paired with Ravel’s “L’Heure Espagnole.”  The new production at the  Bastille Opera , an import from  La
Scala  in Milan, is the first in more than 20 years to give
Parisians the opportunity to see the trilogy as the composer
intended it. The three parts aren’t only set in different
centuries; they also differ stylistically.  “Il Tabarro” may be a cheap little shocker: Toscanini
hated it and refused to conduct the 1918 premiere. Musically,
Puccini is at his most sophisticated. The atmospheric depiction
of life on the Seine is pure Debussy; the sad little waltz
played on a passing barrel-organ could be from Stravinsky’s
“Petrushka.”  “Suor Angelica,” the story of a suicidal nun, is another
matter. Puccini, who came from a family of church musicians and
who had a sister in an Augustinian convent, thought highly of
it. Most conductors disagree and do their best to avoid what
they consider a mawkish pastiche of religious kitsch.  Giddy in Bed  “Gianni Schicchi,” on the other hand, a bedroom farce
based on an episode in Dante’s “Inferno,” is by general
consent a masterpiece, its giddy pace and comic effects on a par
with Verdi’s “Falstaff.”  Philippe Jordan, the new musical director of the Paris
Opera, perfectly catches the various styles of the score, making
even the eggy pudding of “Sister Angelica” palatable.  Luca Ronconi, the director, and Margherita Palli, his loyal
set designer, aren’t known as iconoclasts. They don’t try to
baffle us with new interpretations. The barge, on which the
bloody drama of jealousy is played out, couldn’t be more
naturalistic.  The red-lined bedroom, in which Gianni Schicchi, disguised
as the dying Buoso Donati, awards the lion’s share of the rich
man’s property to himself, will remind you of the interiors in
Renaissance paintings.  Only in the second part does the set designer veer from
tradition. She has turned the convent grounds into the giant
statue of a reclining Madonna, a kind of pious mountain
landscape on which the white-clad nuns climb up and down.  Imposing Veteran  The veteran Juan Pons, who plays both Michele, the jealous
skipper, and Gianni Schicchi, has lost sheen yet is still an
imposing presence. Marco Berti as his younger rival Luigi is the
archetypal stentorian tenor whose voice sinks to an almost
inaudible whisper when he has to sing piano.  The three leading sopranos all come from the former Soviet
Union. Oksana Dyka is a powerful Giorgetta, Michele’s straying
wife, and Tamar Iveri plays a sensitive Angelica. Ekaterina
Syurina, who sings the role of Gianni’s daughter Lauretta, is
more leggiero than lirico: Her “O mio babbino caro,” the
opera’s most famous number, could use more warmth.  The Albanian tenor Saimir Pirgu is Lauretta’s fiance
Rinuccio -- a promising debut. Rating: ***.  “Il Trittico” runs through Oct. 27. Information:
 http://www.operadeparis.fr  or +33-1-7125-2423.  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 