-- Prosecutor Who Tried to Oust Erdogan Warns Him Over Easing Headscarf Ban
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2010-10-20T15:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/turkish-prosecutor-warns-erdogan-against-new-effort-to-ease-headscarf-ban.html
Turkey’s top prosecutor warned Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government that its bid to end a
ban on Islamic headscarves at universities is unconstitutional
and undermines secular rules, a charge that almost brought down
Erdogan’s administration two years ago.  The warning was issued by the Supreme Court prosecutor’s
office in Ankara, headed by  Abdurrahman Yalcinkaya , who sought
to bar Erdogan and his Justice and Development Party, or AK
Party, from politics two years ago. It came as the party held
meetings with opposition groups to garner support for easing the
ban, which prevents women from working in Turkish government
offices or attending universities while wearing headscarves.  Efforts to end the ban have been ruled unconstitutional by
Turkey’s top court, and are incompatible with “the principles
of equality and secularism,” the prosecutor’s office said in a
statement today. “The limits on wearing the Islamic headscarf
and the precautions taken to enforce them are correct and
commensurate with their goals, and must be accepted as a
necessity in a democratic society.”  Erdogan, whose roots are in Turkey’s Islamist political
movement, has made overturning the ban one of his long-time
goals, placing his career at risk in a country where the senior
judiciary has traditionally been dominated by secularists. The
prime minister spent 10 months in prison after a 1998 conviction
on charges of subverting the secular state while he was mayor of
Istanbul by reading an Islamist poem in public.  A decade later, as prime minister, Erdogan succeeded in
having the headscarf ban overturned by parliament only to have
that decision annulled by the Constitutional Court in 2008.  Party Closure  His efforts to end the prohibition were also the
centerpiece of attempts the same year by the Supreme Court
prosecutor to shut down Erdogan’s party for seeking to impose
Islamic rules. The premier narrowly escaped a political ban,
which was supported by six of 11 judges on the Constitutional
Court, one short of the required number for a party closure.  The Ak Party attacked the prosecutor for issuing today’s
statement, calling it “an open blow to the democratic
parliamentary regime.”  Parliament, not the judiciary, has “the legal authority to
institute such rules,” and “no person, organ or office can
give orders to the  parliament ,” the party said in a statement
from its Ankara headquarters.  ‘Escalating Tension’  The prosecutor’s warning may destabilize Turkey if it leads
to another closure case against the AK Party, and the
government’s initial reaction suggests “they would favor
escalating the tension,”  Guldem Atabay , chief economist at
Ekspres Invest in Istanbul, wrote in an e-mailed note.  Still, it’s now harder to get a closure verdict against the
party in the Constitutional Court, after government-backed
legislation approved in a referendum last month increased the
number of judges on the tribunal, Atabay said.  The prosecutor’s warning today follows administrative
decisions by the Higher Education Board, headed by an AK Party
nominee, that effectively loosen the ban even as the government
seeks political support for a more comprehensive rule change.  This week, the board lifted requirements that female
students remove headscarves while taking exams to qualify as
teachers or to enter universities and the civil service,
according to local media. And two weeks ago, the board ordered
Istanbul University to allow a student in a headscarf to attend
lessons after she complained about her exclusion, NTV said.  Kemal Anadol, a politician from the main opposition
Republican People’s Party, or CHP, said after his meeting with
AK Party lawmakers today that the ruling party was not sincere
and harbored a hidden Islamist agenda.  ‘Hidden Agenda’  The CHP is willing to allow headscarves at universities
provided the ban continued to be enforced at primary and
secondary schools and public offices, he said. Officials from
Erdogan’s party would not make a commitment to confine the
lifting of the ban to universities, he said.  “Everyone says the AK Party has a hidden agenda, this view
is widespread among the people, and also among us,” Anadol
said. “Today we tested that.”  Bekir Bozdag, deputy head of the AK Party’s parliament
group and a member of the delegation that met with opposition
parties, said that headscarved students are the victims of “a
great drama,” and that there is “a broad coalition in public
opinion that believes this must be resolved.” He said the
party’s efforts are focused on ending the ban at universities,
not in schools or state offices.  Bozdag and colleagues also met today with leaders of the
main nationalist party and the largest pro-Kurdish party to
discuss the headscarf ban.  Erdogan was out of the country on a state visit to Finland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at   lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 