-- Vale May Sell Fertilizer Unit Stock in Second Quarter
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2010-10-20T19:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/vale-may-sell-shares-in-fertilizer-unit-ipo-in-second-quarter-or-later.html
Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron-
ore miner, may sell shares in its fertilizer unit as soon as the
second quarter and could be interested in Anglo American Plc’s
Brazil fertilizer business, its Chief Financial Officer said.  The Rio de Janeiro-based company, which bought about $3.8
billion of fertilizer assets from Bunge Ltd. this year, expects
to make cost savings from that and other fertilizer acquisitions
before selling shares in the initial public offering, Chief
Financial Officer  Guilherme Cavalcanti  said in an interview.  “We’re working now on extracting the synergies,”
Cavalcanti said today from London. “It takes time, so we don’t
envision that before the second quarter of next year.”  The company plans to increase potash output to 11 million
metric tons by 2017, Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli  also
said today at an investor meeting in London. Vale also expects
to produce 17 million tons of phosphates by the same period and
would consider bidding for Anglo’s Copebras SA fertilizer unit
if Anglo were to be open to negotiations, he said.  Vale  is buying fertilizer assets to diversify from metals
mining. The company may list the shares on the Novo Mercado
section of the Sao Paulo exchange and the stock could also trade
in other markets abroad including New York, he said.  The first step for the fertilizers strategy is “to put
everything together” and after that do the share sale,
Cavalcanti said. Vale hasn’t hired any banks yet to work on the
transaction, he said.  ‘Opportunistic Acquisitions’  Vale  is looking for “smaller” and “opportunistic”
acquisitions and is willing to start negotiations with Anglo on
a possible offer for Copebras, Cavalcanti said during the
interview after meeting investors in the U.K. capital. The
companies haven’t yet held any talks, he said.  “The first step is the willingness to sell and so far they
haven’t shown that for us,” he said. “As far as I know, the
process didn’t start yet.”  Asked if Copebras could be an opportunity for Vale,
Cavalcanti said it “could be, depending on the price.”  Anglo said last year that it was planning to sell its
Copebras fertilizer unit, which produces phosphate fertilizers
and phosphoric acid in Brazil. Anglo American holds a 73 percent
stake in the company, according to Anglo’s website.  Anglo spokesman  James Wyatt-Tilby  declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News today.  Vale will benefit from simplifying administrative functions
and gaining tax efficiencies by combining its fertilizer assets,
 Rene Kleyweg , an analyst at UBS AG in London, said today in a
telephone interview.  Vale rose 1.18 reais, or 2.45 percent, to 49.26 reais as of
4:55 p.m. in Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net 
 Laura Price  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  