-- Venezuela to Stand By Iran Under Any Circumstances, Chavez Says on Visit
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-10-20T07:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/venezuela-to-stand-by-iran-under-any-circumstances-chavez-says-on-visit.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ,
who’s making his ninth visit to Tehran, pledged that his country
will stand by Iran “under any circumstances.”  “Venezuela pursues the increasing of ties with Iran as a
holy matter,” Chavez said yesterday during a meeting with his
Iranian counterpart,  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , according to a report
published on the Iranian president’s  website .  “Independent nations have potential and if they
consolidate, they can multiply their power in the face of
imperialism,” Chavez was quoted as saying.  Iran’s ties with Venezuela have intensified since
Ahmadinejad took office in 2005. Both countries are members of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, and
Ahmadinejad and Chavez have used their nations’ oil wealth to
pay for social programs benefiting the poor.  The two presidents are also outspoken critics of U.S.
foreign policy, which they characterize as imperialistic.  Ahmadinejad thanked Chavez, whom he has called a
“brother,” for backing the Persian Gulf nation in combating
international sanctions aimed at forcing it to curb its nuclear
program. The U.S. and its allies accuse Iran of seeking to
develop nuclear weapons, while Iran maintains its program is
civilian and needed to generate electricity for a growing
population.  “Venezuela’s progressive and brotherly stance in
condemning the sanctions of oppressive countries against the
Iranian nation is proof of the two countries’ deep and solid
relations,” Ahmadinejad said yesterday.  Chavez’s visit is aimed at furthering energy ties with
Iran, local media reported yesterday. Before flying to Tehran,
Chavez was in Russia, where he secured an agreement for Rosatom
Corp., the Russian state-run nuclear holding company, to build
Venezuela’s first nuclear power plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Beirut at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  