-- Venezuela Lowers Reserve Requirements During Petroleos de Venezuela's Sale
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2010-10-20T19:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/venezuela-lowers-reserve-requirements-during-petroleos-de-venezuela-s-sale.html
Venezuela lowered the amount of
money that lenders must keep on reserve at the central bank to
increase liquidity in the financial system during a $3 billion
bond sale by state oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA .  The reserve requirement was cut to 20 percent from 23
percent on amounts above a baseline established in 2006,
according to a  resolution  published today in the government’s
Official Gazette.  Venezuelan Central Bank President  Nelson Merentes  said
reserve requirements were cut to boost liquidity during the bond
sale.  “The decisions were taken to give optimal conditions for
the coming issue,” Merentes said to reporters today in Caracas.  The lowering of reserve requirements will free up about $7
billion for Venezuelan banks that the government hopes will be
spent acquiring PDVSA’s bonds,  Asdrubal Oliveros , director of
economic researcher Econalitica in Caracas, said in a phone
interview. PDVSA, as the state oil company is known, is offering
$3 billion of 8.5 percent bonds due in 2017 at par value to
finance investments and fund social development projects.  “This gives banks more room for maneuver to lend money to
their clients to buy the bonds or, if the central bank and PDVSA
permit it, acquire some of those bonds,” Oliveros said.  The change in reserve requirements is evidence that PDVSA
may increase the amount of bonds on offer to as much as $4.5
billion, Oliveros said. Merentes declined to comment on a
possible increase in the bond offer. “Demand will be greater
than the offer,” he said.  The sale’s results are scheduled to be announced Oct. 25.  Merentes denied that the increase of cash circulating in
Venezuela’s financial system would affect inflation.  The bank last cut reserve requirements in November 2009,
when it reduced them to 23 percent from 25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in London at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  