-- Verizon to Sell Samsung Tablet for $599 Next Month
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-20T20:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/verizon-to-sell-samsung-tablet-for-599-next-month.html
Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S.
mobile-phone carrier, will start selling  Samsung Electronics
Co.’ s Galaxy Tab tablet computer next month, introducing one of
the first competitors to Apple Inc.’s iPad in the U.S.  The 7-inch touch-screen computer will be available on Nov.
11 for $599.99, Basking Ridge, New Jersey-based Verizon Wireless
said in a statement today. The Galaxy Tab runs Google Inc.’s
Android operating system.  Verizon is expanding beyond mobile phones to add  sales  from
other devices and to increase revenue from data plans that let
those connect to the Internet. The data plans for the Galaxy Tab
will start at $20 a month for 1 gigabyte of usage.  The carrier has also said it will start selling the iPad on
Oct. 28, offering it for as little as $629.99 combined with a
portable Wi-Fi device to connect to the Internet. The Galaxy Tab
can access the Web by connecting directly to Verizon’s mobile-
phone network, without a separate device.  AT&T Inc., the second-largest U.S. mobile carrier, and
smaller rivals  Sprint Nextel Corp.  and T-Mobile USA Inc. have
said they will also sell the Galaxy Tab.  Mark Siegel , an AT&T spokesman, said in an e-mail that the
carrier’s pricing and release date for the Galaxy Tab weren’t
yet available.  Scott Sloat , a Sprint spokesman, declined in an
e-mail to provide details of the carrier’s pricing or release
plans for the Samsung device. Reid Walker, a T-Mobile USA
spokesman in Bellevue, Washington, didn’t respond to a request
for comment.  Tablet Competition  Electronics makers are trying to emulate the success of the
iPad, after 4.19 million of the devices were sold last quarter.
Dell Inc.,  Research In Motion Ltd.  and Motorola Inc. have all
announced plans to release a tablet, which generally are lighter
than laptops and provide a larger screen for videos and games
than mobile phones.  Verizon Communications Inc. , which co-owns Verizon Wireless
with Vodafone Group Plc, rose 48 cents to $32.64 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m. The stock has gained
5.4 percent this year. Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea,
rose 4,000 won to 745,000 won in Seoul trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  