-- Russia’s Big 3 Mobile Operators to Cut Roaming Fees
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2010-10-20T12:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/vimpelcom-mts-megafon-to-lower-roaming-fees-voluntarily-putin-says.html
Russia’s three biggest mobile-phone
operators will cut roaming fees “voluntarily” after Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  criticized companies for charging too
much.  The companies will cut domestic and international roaming
and data transmission fees by at least a third from Dec. 1,
Putin said during a meeting with  Igor Artemyev , head of the
federal anti-monopoly service, according to a transcript on the
government’s website today. The three biggest operators are  OAO
Mobile TeleSystems ,  VimpelCom Ltd . and OAO MegaFon.  “This is a positive news for investors,” Viktor
Klimovich, a telecommunications analyst at VTB Capital, said in
a phone interview from Moscow. “The companies cooperated with
the anti-monopoly agency and came up with a compromise which is
not going to affect companies’ bottom line.”  The price cut may result in the mobile operators’ revenues
declining as much as 0.5 percent, which is “less than the
market expected,” Klimovich said.  The three operators have been expanding abroad after
gaining control of more than 85 percent of the domestic market.
Mobile-phone subscribers in Russia increased to 216.4 million
in August from 201.8 million a year earlier, according to
market researcher  Advanced Communications & Media .  The Russian mobile operators charge an average of 70
rubles ($2.27) a minute for making phone calls while abroad,
according to VTB’s Klimovich. That compares with the 49 euro
cents ($0.68) a minute cap set for mobile operators in the
European Union in 2007. Charges in the EU have decreased
further since then.  Investigation  Putin said in April he had ordered the anti-monopoly
agency to investigate why the rates were more expensive in
Russia than elsewhere in Europe.  “We accused the companies of inflating prices and
creating so-called monopolistically high prices,” Artemyev
told Putin today. “Together with the Communications Ministry,
we persuaded the companies to voluntarily cut roaming rates.”  MTS and Vimpelcom are cutting roaming prices this year in
countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States where they
have operations, according to  Irina Osadchaya , a spokeswoman at
MTS, and Anna Aybasheva, a VimpelCom spokeswoman. The two
companies are also in talks with other international operators
to reduce roaming rates globally.  Megafon will cut roaming prices from Dec. 1 in some CIS
countries and Finland, the company said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  