-- Wayne Rooney's Agent May See Pay Plunge as FIFA Caps Player-Transfer Fees
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-10-20T13:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/wayne-rooney-s-agent-may-see-pay-plunge-under-new-player-trade-rules.html
Wayne Rooney ’s agent may have an
extra reason to broker the striker’s move from Manchester
United. His fee could plunge soon.  World soccer’s ruling body FIFA plans to cap payments to
agents for negotiating a transfer to 3 percent of the fee or a
maximum of 2 million euros ($2.8 million), according to agent
groups and a copy of draft legislation sent to clubs. Zurich-
based FIFA didn’t immediately return an e-mail and call.  Rooney, 24, could be the next big trade in European soccer,
which had more than 1 billion euros of transfers in the last
offseason. The England striker is “adamant” he wants to leave
Manchester United, club coach  Alex Ferguson  said yesterday.
Agents typically get 5 to 10 percent of fees, according to The
Hague, Netherlands-based  European Football Agents Association .  The group, which represents 1,100 agents, held talks with
FIFA about the fee cap that will probably be introduced next
year, General Manager Roberto Branco Martins said in an
interview. FIFA officials “seem to have made their minds up,”
Branco Martins said.  “FIFA sees agents as crooks that take money out of the
game,” Gregor Reiter, director of the German players’ agent
association, said by phone from Oberhausen, Germany. “That’s
rubbish. If that’s so, the beer and sausage sellers at stadiums
are also taking money out of the game.”  50 Million Pounds?  Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan’s Manchester City is
prepared to pay a 50 million-pound ($78.6 million) transfer fee
to sign Rooney, the Daily Mirror newspaper reported. Rooney’s
agent  Paul Stretford  didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking
comment. His office referred queries to a spokesman, Ian Monk,
who didn’t return a call.  Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s agent Mino Raiola got 8 million euros
in Barcelona’s acquisition and sale of the Sweden striker the
last two years, according to an audit of team accounts by KPMG
LLP. Ibrahimovic joined for 69.9 million euros from Inter Milan
in 2009, leaving for AC Milan in the last offseason for as much
as 24 million euros.  The  European Club Association , which represents the likes
of Manchester United and Bayern Munich, “generally speaking”
approves of capping agent fees because it will help reduce
teams’ costs, Marc Schmidgall, a spokesman for the Nyon,
Switzerland-based organization said. He said he expects FIFA to
approve the rules by the end of the year and implement them as
early as the next offseason.  Rooney could leave United as early as Jan. 1 when the
midseason transfer window opens.  A cap on agent fees will prompt clubs to cover up
payments to agents as they seek to lure in-demand players,
said Reiter, whose group represents 51 agents in Germany. That
will make the transfer market shadier, he added.  “It’s going to push more and more activity out of the
light and into a gray area,” Reiter said. “It will create a
new black market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  