-- Wells Fargo Reports Record Profit as Credit Improves
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-20T17:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/wells-fargo-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-improved-credit-conditions.html
Wells Fargo & Co. , the largest U.S.
home lender, reported record third-quarter profit that beat most
analysts’ estimates as credit conditions improved, and said it’s
not planning to halt foreclosures.  Net income rose 3.1 percent to $3.34 billion, or 60 cents a
diluted share, from $3.24 billion, or 56 cents, in the same
period a year earlier, the San Francisco-based bank said today
in a statement.  Analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg estimated profit
of 56 cents. Revenue dropped 7.1 percent to $20.9 billion.  “It’s remarkable that here we are in one of the worst
environments the banking industry has ever experienced and this
company is producing record earnings,” said  Nancy Bush , an
independent analyst based in New Jersey who specializes in
financial firms. “And there is lots of upside in terms of loan
growth.”  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 57, is more than
halfway through the integration of Wachovia Corp., the lender
bought at the depths of the credit crisis, and is using the
economic recovery to streamline businesses. In July, the lender
said it  slashed 3,800 jobs  and closed its consumer-finance
branch network.  Net charge-offs fell to $4.1 billion from $4.5 billion in
the previous quarter. The lender set aside $3.4 billion to cover
those losses, releasing $650 million of reserves, according to
the statement.  Stock Price  Wells Fargo rose $1.20, or 4.9 percent, to $25.75 in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading  at 12:52 p.m. The stock
declined 9 percent this year through yesterday, making it one of
the worst performers in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index .  The bank ranks among the biggest mortgage servicers, which
perform billing and collections, and is seeking to reassure
investors it’s not among companies that seized homes based on
faulty documents. Attorneys general in all 50 states started a
probe into foreclosure practices after  court  documents surfaced
showing employees signed papers without ensuring their accuracy.
That prompted  Bank of America Corp. , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Ally Financial Inc. to suspend some seizures and evictions.  In Wells Fargo’s process, “the affidavit signer and
reviewer are the same team member,” Stumpf said on the
conference call. “They’re properly notarized and if we find
error, we’ll fix it.”  Court Documents  In a May 20 deposition, a Wells Fargo employee said he
signed 50 to 150 documents a day without personally confirming
the information was correct. A judge dismissed that case in
June. The bank said it’s reviewing pending  foreclosures  in 23
states to provide “further assurance” that information is
correct, according to an Oct. 12 statement from Vickee Adams, a
company spokeswoman.  Earlier this month, the company agreed to pay $24 million
to eight states and make more than $772 million in loan
modifications to resolve allegations that Wachovia deceptively
marketed adjustable-rate mortgages.  Wells Fargo is the last of the four biggest U.S. banks to
report results.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , ranked second, reported a
$4.42 billion profit Oct. 13, while Citigroup Inc., ranked
third, announced quarterly net income of $2.17 billion Oct. 18.
 Bank of America Corp. , the largest U.S. bank by assets, posted a
$7.3 billion loss tied to new federal rules on credit cards.  Non-performing assets climbed to $34.6 billion from $32.9
billion in the previous quarter, with souring business loans and
commercial real estate transactions up almost $400 million, the
bank said.  “You can’t track nonaccruals to charge-offs and the main
reason is that most of our loan portfolio, both consumer and
commercial, is in secured loans,” Chief Financial Officer
 Howard Atkins  said in a phone interview. “The actual loss
content in the nonaccrual portfolio is not that high.”  Net interest margin, the difference between what the bank
pays for funds and what it charges for loans, narrowed to 4.25
percent from 4.38 percent in the second quarter.  Sliding Shares  Shares  of banks have fallen over the past week amid
speculation faulty mortgage documents may mean lenders will have
to buy back billions of dollars in loans from mortgage-bond
investors who will challenge the paperwork. Forced repurchases
for the industry may total $55 billion to $120 billion over five
years, JPMorgan analysts led by  John Sim  and  Ed Reardon  wrote in
an Oct. 15 report.  Wells Fargo reduced its reserve for repurchases and
reported $414 million in losses in the quarter. The company said
at the end of September that 16,527 loans totaling about $3.8
billion were being challenged, down from 18,675 and $4.3 billion
in the second quarter.  “Wells is adequately protected” from large-scale
repurchases, said  David A. George , a Robert W. Baird & Co.
analyst, in a Bloomberg Television interview. He estimates the
bank will suffer $5 billion to $6 billion in losses. “It’s a
pretty manageable issue for Wells overall. We’re estimating that
this is going to last over the next 8 to 12 quarters.”  The lender originated $101 billion of home loans in the
quarter, and had another $101 billion in the pipeline, both up
over the second quarter, according to the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  