-- Wheat Futures Rebound as Weaker Dollar May Improve Exports of U.S. Grain
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-20T19:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/wheat-futures-rebound-as-weaker-dollar-may-improve-exports-of-u-s-grain.html
Wheat futures rose for the first
time this week as the dollar slumped, improving the prospects
for exports from the U.S., the world’s largest shipper.  The dollar dropped the most since July 1 against a basket
of six major currencies, after jumping yesterday when China
raised interest rates. The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index 
of 19 raw materials climbed as much as 2.1 percent. U.S. wheat
export inspections for the week ended Oct. 14 were 9.3 percent
larger than a year earlier, government data show.  “A cheaper dollar means it’s cheaper for other countries
to buy our stuff,” said  Jeff McReynolds , the owner of
McReynolds Marketing and Investments in Hays, Kansas.
“Yesterday was a bad day for commodities in general, and today
looks to be a good day for commodities in general, with the
dollar being the primary factor.”  Wheat futures for December delivery rose 11.5 cents, or 1.7
percent, to settle at $6.83 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. That’s the biggest gain since Oct. 8. Futures
dropped 4.7 percent in the previous two days.  Rain may fall in wheat-growing areas in the Great Plains
and Midwest in the next five days, with parts of Kansas, the
biggest winter-wheat producer, expected to receive as much as
0.5 inch (1.3 centimeters), according to T-Storm Weather LLC.  “It sounds like there’s a real good chance of some
meaningful precipitation out here, and we definitely need it,”
McReynolds said.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  