-- JPMorgan May Lose Business, Face Suit on Wintek Report
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   Y u - h u a y   S u n
-- 2010-10-21T01:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/wintek-ends-gdr-cooperation-with-jpmorgan-after-disputed-analyst-report.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  may have lost a
client’s business and face a lawsuit after Taiwan’s  Wintek Corp. 
objected to an analyst’s report that said investors should sell
the company’s shares as it was poised to lose market share.  Wintek will “end global depositary receipt cooperation
with JPMorgan” because of an Oct. 19 research report by Taipei-
based analyst  Narci Chang , the company said in a  filing  to the
Taiwan Stock Exchange yesterday. The company, which makes
components for Apple Inc.’s iPad and iPhone, may take legal
action against Chang, the statement said.  The stock fell 3.9 percent to NT$47.60 as of 9:17 a.m. in
Taipei and has slid 11 percent since Oct. 18, after Chang’s Oct.
19 report said it’s “an ideal time to take profit in the
shares.” Display makers  AU Optronics Corp . and  Chimei Innolux
Corp . are a “serious threat” to Wintek because they’re eroding
orders from Apple, Chang said.  “The analyst report said new players will grab market
share, but this assumption couldn’t be accompanied by any
evidence,” Jay Huang, a spokesman for Taichung, Taiwan-based
 Wintek , said in a phone interview yesterday. “Without this
event, I think we still would have cooperated with them to
conduct the GDR offering.”  Wintek’s board on Oct. 13 approved plans to sell as much as
$387 million of global depositary receipts, the company said in
an exchange filing that day. No bookrunner has been appointed,
Huang said. JPMorgan was the sole bookrunner and global
coordinator for the Taiwanese company’s global depositary
receipt sale in April, according to a prospectus.  Marie Cheung , a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for JPMorgan,
declined to comment.  Chang’s “underweight”  recommendation  on the stock makes
JPMorgan the only one of 16 brokerages surveyed by Bloomberg to
have a “sell” equivalent rating on Wintek shares. Twelve
analysts recommend investors “buy,” three say “hold” and one
has suspended coverage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
 Yu-huay Sun  in Taipei 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  