-- Women Need to Vote for Their Own Freedom: Veronique de Rugy
-- B y   V e r o n i q u e   d e   R u g y
-- 2010-10-20T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/women-need-to-vote-for-their-own-freedom-veronique-de-rugy.html
As Election Day approaches, the
political candidates make increasingly enthusiastic promises to
U.S. voters.  Unfortunately for women, none of them are promising to cut
marginal tax rates, abolish most regulation of small business,
allow more low-skilled labor and restructure Social Security.
That’s a pity because women would gain a lot from a candidate
that could deliver on each of these points.  Let’s challenge one premise and pose a couple of others:  -- Government knows best.  Women fought for the right to choose how to live their
lives. Yet many government policies limit women’s ability to
choose the lives they want.  Does the government support a woman’s decision to work? Not
if the woman is married, makes less than her spouse, and the
couple files their taxes jointly. In this case, the government
taxes the first dollar the wife earns at her husband’s highest
marginal tax rate, not at the rate the wife’s salary warrants.  This marriage penalty creates a disincentive for women to
work unless they are going to make the same amount, or more
than, their husbands. And of course, the higher the marginal tax
rate, the bigger the penalty.  To add insult to injury, while almost 80 percent of working
mothers would prefer to work part time, almost two-thirds of
them work full time. The tax on the money they earn is just too
high to make part-time work financially viable.  Tax Credit  High marginal rates and joint taxation aren’t the only
elements of the tax code that give married women adverse
incentives to work. Over the past 30 years, U.S. policy makers
have tried to increase single mothers’ participation in the
labor force by expanding the earned-income tax credit. But as
economists Nada Eissa’s and Hilary Hoynes’s  work  shows, while
the tax credit has put many single mothers to work, it has
pushed married women out of the labor force.  A motivation behind the tax credit was the perception that
some single mothers were choosing to be idle and instead ought
to contribute more to society by working. However, economists
Alexander Gelber and Joshua Mitchell of the National Bureau of
Economic Research have  found  that for these women, the time
spent participating in the labor force has come largely at the
expense of housework and child care. Whether the shift has been
beneficial for these women, their family or society is unclear.  Easier Immigration  What is clear is that because of this substitution between
household and outside work, working moms would benefit from
having additional and affordable help at home.  According  to
Patricia Cortes of the University of Chicago and Jose Tessada of
the Brookings Institution, an increase in the supply of low-
skilled immigrants would allow women to work longer hours and
make more money. It also allows these women to spend less time
doing household work and spend more time with their family when
they aren’t working.  -- High taxes and regulations hurt women.  Women own 40 percent of closely held businesses, a majority
of which are very small. According to the  National Federation of
Independent Business , high tax rates disproportionately penalize
these entrepreneurs because many small business owners tend to
file their business income through the personal income tax. High
tax rates mean lower business and personal income and less
ability to hire help at home or at work.  Workplace regulations can also make women’s lives harder.
Many regulations make it difficult for employees to move between
jobs and industries, which hurts women as they exit and re-enter
the labor market more often during their careers than do men.  Bad Outcomes  Even some regulations meant to protect women can produce
bad outcomes. For instance, government mandates that employers
must approve extended maternity leaves make hiring women of
child-bearing age less appealing to employers. As a result,
women are more likely to be unemployed or to see their pay
limited -- whether they want to have children or not.  Jonathan Gruber , an economist at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, has  shown  that real wages fell in
states that adopted laws mandating comprehensive maternity
expenses as opposed to the states that didn’t.  -- Government intervention makes women dependent.  After fighting so hard for their independence, many women
find themselves relying on government payouts and less prepared
to face adversity.  Consider Social Security. Women depend on Social Security
more than men. Based on Social Security data, almost 29 percent
of women over age 65 rely on Social Security for 90 percent of
their retirement income. That number increases to 46 percent for
unmarried elderly women.  Preparing for Retirement  However, the expectation of a Social Security payment can
make women worse off as it reduces their incentives to save and
prepare for their own retirements.  Imagine if a woman could have saved and invested the 12.4
percent of her income she paid for years in payroll taxes
(including the employer’s share) for Social Security. She could
have it available in case of emergency during her lifetime or
pass it along to her children or grandchildren if she didn’t
need it anymore.  Depending on Social Security payments also makes women
vulnerable to changes in government policies. At any time,
Congress can reduce benefits even for people who paid their
entire lives into the system. In a sense, it did that earlier
this month by saying Social Security recipients won’t get a
cost-of-living increase this year.  Running Deficits  Starting in 2014, the  system  will run a deficit, and the
trust fund will run dry in 2037. Benefit cuts seem inevitable,
which is particularly bad news for women who tend to count on
Social Security. These women stand to lose the most if they
don’t break their current dependency on government payouts.  Not all government programs hurt women. A program such as
Medicaid, at great societal expense, does help poor women by
providing support for their children. But contrary to the
rhetoric, many government interventions are detrimental to women
rather than beneficial.  Government has difficulty distinguishing which programs aid
women and which don’t. In short, women would be better off if
government didn’t discriminate based on marital or parental
status, gender or age, if it reduced regulations on businesses
and dependency on government programs. Any party or candidate
that promotes those policies would be great for women.  ( Veronique de Rugy  is a senior research fellow at the
Mercatus Center at George Mason University. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Veronique de Rugy at  vderugy@gmu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  