-- World Trade Center Pays More Than Wal-Mart for $850 Million: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-20T04:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/world-trade-center-pays-more-than-wal-mart-for-850-million-muni-credit.html
The Port Authority of New York and
New Jersey paid 60 percent more than similarly rated  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.  on an $850 million taxable-bond sale to finance
rebuilding the World Trade Center, the week’s largest such deal.  States and local governments are poised to sell about $11
billion in debt this week, with about $4.8 billion coming as
taxable, the  highest since  April 24, 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. About $1.8 billion, including today’s
Port Authority deal, is so-called traditional taxables, carrying
no federal subsidy on interest costs.  The Port Authority, which slashed its 10-year capital
spending plan by 17 percent, is targeting international
investors to boost demand for its debt, said  Howard Cure ,
director of municipal research at Evercore Wealth Management LLC
in New York.  “They’re deliberately marketing overseas because they’re
trying to convince investors that their debt is nearly as safe
as Treasuries but the yield is better,” said Cure, who oversees
about $2 billion. “There’s still a high demand for U.S.
securities.”  The yield on the Port Authority’s 30-year bonds was set at
175 basis points, or 1.75 percentage points, above U.S.
Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. A 30-year corporate bond from
Wal-Mart sold yesterday at a yield of 4.98 percent, 107 basis
points above benchmark Treasuries.  Wal-Mart Bonds  The world’s largest retailer’s $1.25 billion of 5 percent
securities due October 2040 were the most-traded corporate bonds
yesterday and rose more than those Wal-Mart sold with shorter
maturity dates. They climbed 1.7 cents to 100.46 cents on the
dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The Port Authority’s offering is rated Aa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service, third-highest, and AA- by Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings, both fourth-highest. Wal-Mart’s bonds are
rated Aa2 by Moody’s and AA by S&P.  Its obligations will be backed by revenue from facilities
as well as the full faith and credit of the agency, offering
documents show. The 89-year-old  Port Authority  operates two
tunnels and four bridges between New York and New Jersey, five
airports, six marine terminals and the Trans-Hudson ferry
service, as well as the World Trade Center site, according to
the preliminary documents. The agency is able to set tolls and
other fees.  Citigroup Inc.  is marketing the issue.  Mike Percival, debt manager for the authority, declined to
comment on the sale.  World Trade Center  Proceeds from the sale will help fund construction of One
World Trade Center, with 2.6 million square feet (241,547 square
meters) comprised of commercial office space, an indoor
observation deck and skyline restaurant, according to
preliminary offering documents. Since today’s offering involves
nonpublic space, it was ineligible for tax-exempt debt or Build
America Bonds,  Steve Coleman , a Port Authority spokesman, wrote
in an e-mail.  Four office towers, a transit center designed by  Santiago Calatrava,  a memorial and museum at the downtown Manhattan site
of the World Trade Center may be completed by 2014, city and
state officials said last month.  The agency owns the site and is responsible for building
Tower One, formerly called the Freedom Tower, the signature
building that will stand 1,776 feet high.  Use of the authority’s commercial airports was up 1.8
percent from January to June after a 4.7 percent decline in
fiscal 2009,  Maria Matesanz  and  Kurt Krummenacker  wrote in an
Oct. 18 Moody’s report. “Aviation enterprises provided
approximately 58 percent of authority net operating revenues”
or 61 percent of net operating income in 2009, they wrote.  Monopoly-Based Rating  “The authority’s near-monopoly over strategic
transportation systems in the largest metropolitan area of the
U.S. ensures a stable, diverse revenue stream that has
demonstrated resilience during economic downturns as well as
external stresses such as 9/11,” Moody’s said.  The  $6.3 billion 2010 budget  approved in December reduced
the authority’s 10-year capital spending plan to $24.5 billion
from $29.5 billion as a result of the longest recession since
the Great Depression. A 150-position reduction in the current
budget has reduced employment to the lowest level in 40 years,
according to preliminary offering documents.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY, which
serves about 2 million customers in the district and the
surrounding area, plans to sell $300 million of Build America
Bonds today. The obligations are backed by revenue from consumer
water bills and will be used to preserve and upgrade the
district’s water and wastewater systems. Underwriters led by
 JPMorgan Chase  & Co. will market the issue, which is rated Aa3
by Moody’s and AA- by both S&P and Fitch Ratings, all fourth-
highest. (Updated Oct. 20)  UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS BUILDING AUTHORITY, the
organization that oversees the buildings of the state university
system and its five campuses, plans to sell $567 million taxable
and tax-exempt bonds in a competitive bid tomorrow, including
$438 million in Build America Bonds. The debt, backed by state
appropriations and student fees, will be used to build an
academic building in Boston, new student housing in Amherst and
a marine sciences building in Dartmouth, according to a Moody’s
report. The securities are rated Aa2 by Moody’s and AA by Fitch,
both third-highest. (Updated Oct. 20)  TRIBOROUGH BRIDGE AND TUNNEL AUTHORITY , the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority unit that operates nine tolled river
crossings, will offer $347 million in taxable and tax-exempt
bonds in a competitive bid today. The debt, which includes $280
million in Build America Bonds and is backed by tolls collected
from the bridges and tunnels, will be used to finance
construction projects. The securities are rated AA by Fitch,
third-highest, one level above S&P’s AA-rating. (Updated Oct.
20)  NEW YORK CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY , the agency
that funds a portion of the city’s capital projects, will sell
$750 million in taxable and tax-exempt debt next week. The sale
includes $620 million in Build America Bonds, which will be
issued in a negotiated sale. Underwriters led by Morgan Stanley
will market the issue. TFA also plans to sell $100 million of
taxable bonds via competitive bid. The securities are top rated
by S&P and Fitch, and Aa1 by Moody’s, second-highest. (Added
Oct. 20)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at +1= 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 