-- World's Biggest Banks Face `Country-to-Country' Capital Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-10-20T12:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/world-s-biggest-banks-face-country-to-country-capital-rules-draghi-says.html
Capital and liquidity rules for
banks deemed too big to fail may vary “country to country,”
the chairman of a global group of financial regulators said.  Mario Draghi , the chairman of the  Financial Stability
Board , which met today in Seoul, said that regulators would
continue to work on options for regulating large lenders.  Measures to deal with systemically important banks are
“going to be different from country to country,” Draghi said
at a press conference after the meeting.  Regulators are searching for ways for ensure that banks
which are too big to fail are fit to withstand financial shocks
such as that which followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008. The U.K., U.S. and Switzerland are
considering imposing capital surcharges on their largest lenders
that go beyond minimum capital rules for banks proposed last
month by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  Draghi said national variations in regulation of
systemically important banks were inevitable. He said that this
was a natural consequence of banks’ varying “business models”
and “history.”  The FSB did agree to recommendations on regulating
systemically important banks, sent for approval to the Group of
20 countries.  The FSB called for authorities to adopt measures including
“supplementary prudential and other requirements” and
“increased intensity” of supervision. Regulators should also
ensure that they are able to wind down failing banks without
harming the wider financial system.  ‘Unfair’  “The point that the banks have been making is that it’s
unfair to charge too-big-to-fail institutions on their size
without providing them with a chance to reduce their systemic
importance,”  Simon Gleeson , financial regulation partner
at Clifford Chance LLP, said in a telephone interview today.  The FSB said that it would monitor the “effectiveness and
consistency” of national policies for regulating systemically
important banks of a “global” scale.  The FSB was set up by the G-20 last year to oversee the
work of groups setting international standards. It replaced the
Financial Stability Forum, a think tank with no formal role that
was created in 1999 after the Asian financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  