-- Xstrata Approves $710 Million Smelter; Merafe May Join
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-10-20T16:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/xstrata-partner-merafe-to-decide-by-year-end-on-whether-to-build-smelter.html
Xstrata Plc , the biggest ferrochrome
maker, will build a 4.9 billion rand ($710 million) smelter in
South Africa to feed demand for the stainless steel ingredient,
and partner Merafe Resources Ltd. may join the project in 2010.  The plan will allow “the group to benefit from anticipated
growth in global demand for stainless steel,” Xstrata Chief
Executive Officer  Mick Davis  said in a statement today.  Global stainless steel production may rise 18 percent to 30
million metric tons this year and grow at a compound annual rate
of 5 percent in the medium-to-long term, Johannesburg-based
 Merafe  told investors in New York this month. The company said
demand for ferrochrome, used to make steel resistant to
corrosion, will outpace supply this year and next.  Xstrata-Merafe Chrome Venture, controlled by Zug,
Switzerland-based  Xstrata , supplies a fifth of the world’s
demand for ferrochrome. South Africa has about 73 percent of
global reserves of chrome, which the venture mines and converts
into ferrochrome. Merafe has a 20.5 percent stake.  Merafe will confirm this year whether it will take up its
right to a fifth of the Lion II smelter project at a cost of 1
billion rand, according to a statement today from the company,
which represents black investors. South Africa requires mining
companies to have a minimum 15 percent ownership by black people
in local operations, increasing to 26 percent by 2014.  Financing Project  “The majority of the financing will be sourced from future
internal cash flows with the balance from loan financing,”
Merafe said. Construction will begin in the first quarter and
commissioning probably in the first half of 2013, Xstrata said.
The  smelter  will add annual capacity of 360,000 tons, boosting
the total for Xstrata-Merafe to more than 2.3 million tons.  The project had been held up until state-owned power utility
Eskom Holdings Ltd. guaranteed supply, Xstrata said, adding it’s
also considering building a 600 megawatt thermal power plant.
Eskom, which supplies about 95 percent of the country’s power,
has said it may not be able to meet all electricity demands in
the next few years while it expands generation capacity.  South Africa is pushing mining companies to add value to
the commodities they mine before exporting them, to boost the
nation’s earnings from its mineral wealth. The country produced
2.2 million tons of ferrochrome last year, or 37 percent of
global output, according to Merafe’s  website .  Xstrata  rose 3.4 percent to 1,291 pence by the 4:35 p.m.
close in London. Merafe fell 0.7 percent to 1.35 rand by the 5
p.m. close in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net 
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 