-- Yankees' Mark Teixeira Probably Done for Postseason With Hamstring Injury
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-20T05:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/yankees-mark-teixeira-probably-done-for-postseason-with-hamstring-injury.html
Mark Teixeira  probably has
played his last game this postseason for the New York
Yankees after injuring his hamstring during a Game 4 loss
that left the defending World Series champions on the brink
of elimination.  Teixeira, who had a team-leading 33 home runs this
season, was injured while running to first base during the
fifth inning of the Yankees’ 10-3 loss to the Texas Rangers
last night. The Rangers lead 3-1 in the best-of-seven
American League Championship Series.  Teixeira grabbed the back of his right thigh as he ran
up the baseline and had to be helped off the field by the
Yankees’ training staff. Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said
he’s not optimistic about Teixeira returning.  “He felt something pop in his hamstring,” Girardi
said during a news conference. “Barring some miracle, he
won’t be with us. It doesn’t look good.”  Girardi said the Yankees probably will replace
Teixeira on the roster with shortstop  Eduardo Nunez  before
Game 5 today in New York. If Teixeira is replaced, he’d be
ineligible to return should the Yankees advance to the
World Series.  “I don’t think you need to make the move until game
time,” Girardi said. “But as I said, it really doesn’t
look very good.”  Nick Swisher  took over at first base after Teixeira’s
injury, which proved to be a turning point. The Yankees had
a 3-2 lead and runners on first and second base when
Teixeira hit a ground ball to third base for the first out
of the inning.  The sellout crowd at Yankee Stadium grew quiet as
Teixeira stumbled to the ground just before reaching first
base and was unable to stand up.  The Yankees failed to score in the fifth and lost the
lead the next inning on a three-run home run by  Bengie Molina . Texas added five more runs over the final three
innings to move within one win of their first trip to the
World Series.  “I believe in this team,” Girardi said. “We have
bounced back many times in this year. It’s a very
resilient, professional group in there and they will be
ready to play.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  at Yankee Stadium in New York at 
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  