-- Yankees' Teixeira Out for Postseason With Injury as Nunez Added to Roster
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-10-20T16:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/yankees-teixeira-out-for-postseason-with-injury-as-nunez-added-to-roster.html
New York Yankees first baseman  Mark Teixeira  will miss the rest of baseball’s postseason with an
injured hamstring.  Teixeira, 30, was replaced by shortstop  Eduardo Nunez  on
the team’s American League Championship Series roster today,
making the first baseman ineligible for the rest of the playoffs
and World Series.  A test showed Teixeira, the Yankees’ leading home-run
hitter during the regular season, sustained a Grade 2 strain of
his hamstring last night while running to first base in the
fifth inning of New York’s 10-3 loss to the Texas Rangers in
Game 4 of the ALCS, manager  Joe Girardi  said at a news
conference.  “Tex is obviously going to be taken off the roster,”
Girardi said. “He won’t be available to us.”  Major League Baseball postseason rules dictate that an
injured position player can only be replaced on a team’s roster
by another position player, and that the injured player may not
return during the playoffs.  Lance Berkman  will start at first base tonight at Yankee
Stadium as New York, down 3-1 in games, tries to avoid
elimination from the best-of-seven series. Berkman has started
seven games at first base since joining the Yankees in a July
trade.  Teixeira, who batted .256 with 33 homers and 108 runs
batted in during the regular season, was 0-for-14 with three
walks against the Rangers.  Nunez, a 23-year-old rookie, batted .280 in 50 at-bats over
30 games this season.  “Our clubhouse is upbeat,” Girardi said. “It’s always
upbeat. That comes with experience and understanding of what you
have to do in a situation or tough games. You’ve got be
yourself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 