-- Yield Curve Favors Short-Term Bonds as Fed, BOE Print Cash: Credit Markets
-- B y   K a t e   H a y w o o d   a n d   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 2010-10-21T16:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/yield-curve-favors-short-term-bonds-as-fed-boe-print-cash-credit-markets.html
Investors are favoring shorter-
maturity corporate debt over longer-dated bonds by the most
since credit markets froze, wagering central banks will succeed
in sparking inflation.  The gap in relative yields on bonds issued by companies
worldwide maturing in less than three years and debt due in
seven to 10 years has widened to 47 basis points, or 0.47
percentage point, almost double the difference on June 30 and
the widest since Sept. 19, 2008, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  Rising speculation the Federal Reserve and the Bank of
England will purchase bonds to inject cash into the U.S. and
U.K. economies is triggering concern the cost of goods and
services will rise. Investors are safeguarding more of their
holdings in the shortest-dated notes because prices of the debt
are less sensitive to inflation.  “We’re not sure when, but we do know that there will be a
painful re-evaluation as a result of inflation and subsequent
rate rises,” said  James Lee , a fixed-income analyst at Calvert
Asset Management in Bethesda, Maryland, with $14.7 billion in
assets. “Investors are starting to position themselves for
inflation with more shorter-dated and medium-term bonds.”  Bond traders’  inflation expectations  in the U.S. for the
next five years, measured by the breakeven rate between nominal
and inflation-indexed bonds, rose to 1.46 percent from a one-
year low of 1.13 percent on Aug. 24. The rate of inflation in
the U.S., excluding food and energy costs, was 0.8 percent last
month.  ‘Flooding the System’  “You’ve got a massive amount of Treasury supply, you’re
flooding the system globally with liquidity and a second
quantitative easing that will put long-term inflationary
pressure on the market,” said  Greg Haendel , a money manager who
helps oversee about $8 billion in fixed-income assets at
Transamerica Investment Management in Los Angeles. “You’re
definitely being paid to hold short-dated corporate bonds.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt rose 1 basis point to 169 basis points, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index
shows. Yields averaged 3.428 percent yesterday from 3.416
percent on Oct. 19.  EBay’s Debut Offering  EBay Inc. , owner of the second-most visited e-commerce
site, plans to sell $1.5 billion of debt in its first offering,
taking advantage of record-low borrowing costs. The bonds may be
issued as soon as today, a person familiar with the transaction
said. The San Jose, California-based company’s board approved a
debt sale “to capitalize on historically low U.S. interest
rates and maintain financial flexibility,” Chief Financial
Officer  Bob Swan  said yesterday on a conference call with
analysts.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. fell. Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 1.2 basis points to a mid-price of 96.6 as of 12:18
p.m. in New York, according to index administrator Markit Group
Ltd. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings decreased 1.9 to 99.4.  Credit swap indexes typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Spreads on the shortest-dated corporate bonds are
tightening at the fastest pace of all maturity groups, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Notes due in one to
three years yield 140 basis points more than government debt,
down from 180 basis points on June 30.  Spread Narrows  In the same period, the average spread on seven- to 10-year
debt narrowed 18 basis points to 187, while on bonds due in 10
years or more it shrunk 12 basis points to 192, index data show.  Even as spreads tighten faster on the shorter-term debt,
returns have lagged behind because yields are at record lows.
The one- to three-year debt has gained 1.7 percent since
midyear, compared with 6.2 percent for the seven- to 10-year
bonds, according to the indexes.  Central bankers are concerned a general decline in prices
would hamper investment and further hinder the economic
recovery. The U.S. economy expanded at a “modest pace” in
September and early October with little sign of accelerating and
companies still hesitant to hire, the Fed said yesterday in its
Beige Book business survey by the 12 regional banks.  U.S. gross domestic product will grow 2.4 percent in 2011,
slowing from 2.7 percent this year, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. In the U.K., growth of 1.9 percent in
2011 would follow 1.6 percent this year.  Bernanke on Stimulus  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 15 that additional
monetary stimulus may be warranted because inflation is too low
and unemployment is too high.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Bernanke said in remarks to a Boston
Fed conference.  “The Fed has been very clear in its mission to support the
market and buy back Treasuries,” Calvert’s Lee said. “We have
made a conscious effort to be overweight three- to five-year
maturities, but we are looking at debt that’s shorter as well.”  Calvert started selling holdings of corporate bonds
maturing in 10 years or more about six months ago in favor of
shorter-dated debt, Lee said.  Zero Percent  Bank of England policy makers are also starting to lean
toward further emergency bond purchases to shore up the
country’s recovery. On Oct. 19, Governor  Mervyn King  signaled he
may be open to stepping up asset purchases from the current 200
billion pound ($317 billion) limit to prevent deflationary
pressures in the economy. The Bank of England voted this month
to keep its main rate at 0.5 percent.  Investors shouldn’t be concerned the central banks’ so-
called quantitative easing will spur a rise in the inflation
rate in the near term because U.S. and European economies remain
so weak, said  Sanjay Joshi , who oversees about $500 million as a
money manager at London & Capital in London and is buying both
short- and long-term debt. Even as today’s industry data showed
a better-than-forecast result for European manufacturing, a
separate index showed services remain weak.  “In an era of high unemployment, low wages and
deleveraging, inflation is likely to remain low for many
quarters ahead,” Joshi said.  Interest Rate Surge  Any acceleration in inflation would also lead to a surge in
interest rates, said Steven Mitra , partner at LNG Capital LLP,
which is raising as much as $100 million for a new European
credit fund. Six-month and one-year notes “should act as a
natural hedge” against price volatility, he said.  The Fed has kept short-term interest rates at a record low
between zero and 0.25 percent since December 2008 to encourage
the country’s economic recovery. Futures traders have placed
more than 78 percent odds that the central bank won’t increase
rates through November 2011.  “Once the economy gains footing and investor confidence
improves, I think there could be a pretty fast snap-back in
rates,” Haendel said. “And there’s going to be a lot of pain
for those who aren’t positioned correctly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net ;
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  