-- Zhou Wrestles With Dilemma Highlighting Inflow Risk for BRICs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-21T02:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-20/zhou-wrestles-with-destabilization-risk-of-bric-money-inflow-china-credit.html
China’s surprise decision to raise
interest rates this week highlights the challenges facing the
world’s developing nations as they struggle to keep capital
inflows from destabilizing their economies.  The increase in borrowing costs, the first since 2007,
comes after policy makers ordered the largest banks last week to
set aside more funds as reserves for the fourth time this year
and allowed the fastest pace of yuan gains since 2005 in
September. Government data today showed economic growth slowed
in the third quarter as inflation accelerated to a 23-month high.  “Like a number of central banks in smaller emerging
markets, they are trying to figure out how to sensibly deal with
asset-price inflation,”  Cliff Tan,  head of emerging-market
foreign-exchange research at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong,
said in an interview yesterday. “The regulatory measures, the
reserve requirements and other indirect measures, don’t really
work well by themselves. There is no perfect solution.”  Near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and Japan are spurring
funds to invest record amounts into securities of faster-growing
economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, known as the
BRICs. Emerging-market equity mutual funds attracted more than
$60 billion this year and bond funds lured $41 billion, both on
pace for record annual inflows, according to data compiled by
 EPFR Global , a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm. The
investment helped drive 20 of 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg higher versus the dollar.  Brazil Tax  Government concern that the appreciation will hurt exports
this week prompted Brazil to raise taxes on foreign investments
in fixed-income securities for the second time in a month and
South Korea to say it’s planning measures to stem fund inflows.  India’s central bank, which has raised interest rates five
times this year, will seek to limit “serious damage” to
exporters, Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said at a conference on
Oct. 14. Russia’s central bank widened the so-called floating
corridor it uses to guide the ruble last week as it seeks
“increased flexibility” in the exchange rate, according to
First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev .  The Brazilian real, Korean won and Indian rupee have all
climbed about 6 percent against the dollar in the past three
months, while the yuan gained 2 percent. The Russian ruble
dropped 1 percent.  Bonds Fall  China’s bonds slumped after People’s Bank of China Governor
 Zhou Xiaochuan  raised the benchmark one-year lending and deposit
rates by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.56 percent and 2.5
percent, respectively.  The yield on the 3.28 percent note due in August 2020
jumped 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point, to 3.61
percent yesterday, according to the National Interbank Funding
Center. India’s benchmark 10-year  bond  yield climbed seven basis
points to 8.14 percent.  The  rate  on the People’s Bank of China’s three-month bills
rose 20 basis points to 1.77 percent at an auction today of 50
billion yuan ($7.5 billion) of the notes, the first time it’s
moved since June 10.  Higher returns on China’s currency and debt may force
policy makers to rein in appreciation to avoid spurring inflows
of capital that stoke inflation, according to Bank Julius Baer &
Co. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Oct. 18
that the yuan is “significantly undervalued” and the exchange
rate is unfair to trading partners.  ‘Difficult’  “If they are tightening interest rates, it is difficult
for them to allow the currency to appreciate at the same time,”
said  Venkatraman Anantha-Nageswaran , Singapore-based global
chief investment officer at Bank Julius Baer, which oversees
some $172 billion of assets. “America may not find China doing
as much as it wants on the currency.”  The yuan strengthened 1.7 percent in September and has
appreciated a further 0.6 percent this month. Non-deliverable
forwards show traders are betting on 1.3 percent appreciation to
6.5661 over the next three months. The currency was little
changed at 6.6502 as of 10:44 a.m., after yesterday retreating
0.11 percent.  “Hot-money inflows will surely increase as the widening
interest-rate gap between China and the U.S. will trigger more
capital to enter the country,” said  Jiang Chao , a fixed-income
analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co. in Shanghai, China’s
largest brokerage by revenue. “So overall liquidity may even
improve after the rate increase. The trend of China’s economic
recovery won’t change.”  Slower Growth  Gross domestic product  increased 9.6 percent in the third
quarter from the same period of 2009, the smallest gain in a
year, the statistics bureau reported today.  Inflation 
accelerated to 3.6 percent from 3.5 percent.  The Finance Ministry sold at least 28 billion yuan of five-
year bonds yesterday at a yield that was 15 basis points more
than analysts and traders had forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
The notes were sold at an average rate of 2.91 percent, compared
with the 2.76 percent median estimate of 15 financial companies
surveyed before China’s rate decision.  China’s one-year interest-rate  swaps , the fixed cost needed
to receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , surged 18
basis points yesterday, the most since May 2009, to 2.36 percent.
The swap rate is still lower than the nation’s benchmark one-
year  deposit rate  of 2.5 percent, suggesting investors don’t
expect another increase in benchmark rates this year and cash
availability remains easy between banks.  Five-year interest-rate swaps jumped 36 basis points to a
six-month high of 3.48 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Shanghai Composite Index  of stocks was 0.3
percent higher today, headed for its highest close in six months.  “China has used various tools and it seems to have
worked,” said  Shun Totani , senior fund manager at Asahi Life
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, which has $8.5 billion of assets
under management. “Instead of raising rates aggressively, China
is likely to see the impact and then adjust all those measures
to manage their economy. They only tighten to a point where they
can achieve their growth target.”  -- Belinda Cao . With assistance from  Yumi Teso  in Bangkok, and
 David Yong  and  Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore. Editors:  James Regan ,  Sandy Hendry   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  