-- Televisa 2nd-Quarter Profit Slides 12% on Ad Slump
-- William Freebairn
-- 2007-07-24T00:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-24/televisa-2nd-quarter-profit-slides-12-on-ad-slump-update1-.html

          
          
             Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO) , the world's
largest Spanish-language broadcaster, said second-quarter profit
fell 12 percent as advertising slumped.  
 Net income fell to 2.03 billion pesos ($188 million) from
2.31 billion pesos a year earlier, without adjusting for
inflation. Sales were little changed at 9.81 billion pesos,
Televisa said today in a statement. Analysts projected 9.71
billion pesos in sales and 2.21 billion pesos in net income, the
averages of four surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  
 Advertising revenue for the Mexico City-based company
declined from last year, when World Cup soccer and Mexico's
presidential election helped Chief Executive Officer Emilio Azcarraga increase profit to a seven-year high. Ad revenue also
fell as Mexican retail sales rose 1.9 percent in May, government
figures show.  
 ``We were expecting a very difficult quarter, and it
doesn't seem too bad given the comparison,'' Raul Ochoa, an
analyst for  Scotia Capital , said in an interview from Mexico
City. Profit margins exceeded his estimate even as sales fell in
 television advertising , as expected, he said.  
 Shares of Televisa fell 30 centavos to 59.41 pesos today in
Mexico City  trading . They have gained 1.6 percent this year,
compared with a 22 percent rise in the benchmark  Bolsa index .  
 Broadcast Division  
 Sales in broadcast television, the company's largest
division, fell 12 percent to 4.94 billion pesos from 5.62
billion pesos a year earlier, when soccer's biggest tournament
boosted ratings and the closest presidential election in Mexican
history led to a surge in campaign ads.  
 ``An unexpected slowdown in consumption in Mexico provoked
a decrease in advertising revenue during the quarter,'' the
company said in the statement  
 Sales in the cable television division rose 22 percent to
585.4 million pesos as the number of subscribers increased 15
percent to 527,000 and the company raised prices an average 3
percent in March.  
 Satellite TV sales gained 12 percent to 2.03 billion pesos,
also buoyed by new subscribers. Televisa's Cablevision began
selling digital telephone service in  Mexico  City on July 2.  
 Profit margins narrowed as Televisa spent more developing
new television series outside its traditional sports and soap
opera programs, Deutsche Bank analyst Miguel Garcia wrote in a
report last week.  
 Profits were reduced as Televisa lost 258 million pesos in
foreign exchange, as it held more U.S. dollars than usual and
the peso appreciated versus the U.S. currency. The company had
gained 420 million pesos in foreign exchange last year as the
peso depreciated versus the dollar, the company said.  
 Televisa said it spent 1.65 billion pesos buying back its
own shares during the quarter. That was 85 percent more than in
the first quarter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
William Freebairn in Mexico City at 
 wfreebairn@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        