-- Exelon to Pay $800 Million; Ameren Earnings to Be Cut
-- Jim Polson
-- 2007-07-24T20:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-24/exelon-to-pay-800-million-ameren-earnings-to-be-cut-update2-.html

          
          
             Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the biggest U.S.
utility owner, said it will pay $800 million of a $1 billion
electricity rate settlement announced yesterday by Illinois
officials. The other utility owner involved,  Ameren Corp. (AEE) , said
its portion will cut earnings this year.  
 Exelon's generation unit, the largest operator of nuclear-
power plants in the U.S., will fund $747 million in refunds and
discounts over four years and utility Commonwealth Edison will
pay $53 million, Exelon said today in a statement. Ameren said
separately its $150 million portion will cut profit this year by
about 26 cents a share.  
 Illinois electricity bills surged in January as utilities
began buying power at higher prices set in a state-supervised
auction in September aimed at opening the state's power market to
competition. The agreement would end a seven-month dispute in
which state lawmakers threatened to cut rates and the companies
countered their utilities would go bankrupt.  
 Jim Halloran, who manages $35 billion at National City
Private Client Group in  Cleveland  and has held on to 1.1 million
Exelon shares and 50,000 Ameren shares throughout the
controversy, said he expected Exelon would pay between $750
million and $800 million.  
 New Agency  
 The compromise calls for a new Illinois Power Agency that
would buy power for utilities. The agency also could build plants
or authorize utilities to build them. Exelon's Commonwealth
Edison, which sells power to 70 percent of people in Illinois and
Ameren's three utilities, sold its  power plants  as the state
opened its wholesale power markets to competition.  
 ``It ends the debate over electric rates in Illinois in a
productive manner,'' Commonwealth Edison Chief Executive Officer
Frank M. Clark said in today's statement. ``This settlement moved
the competitive model forward in Illinois.''  
 The agreement preserves the ability of Exelon to spin off
Commonwealth Edison from the generation unit, Clark said today in
a conference call with reporters. Such a decision is up to Exelon
Chief Executive Officer John W. Rowe and Exelon's board and ``I
know of no immediate plans to do a spinoff of Com Ed,'' he said.  
 Later Increase  
 The deal also clears the way for Commonwealth Edison to seek
a rate increase based on higher electric delivery costs later
this year, Clark said. An unfavorable ruling on delivery rates
cut Commonwealth Edison's profit this year, Exelon has said.  
 The agreement scraps the annual power auction, which
 Illinois  Attorney General Lisa Madigan had complained led to
price manipulation and inflated prices.  
 Changing to a process in which the state power agency
solicits sealed bids and has authority to negotiate lower prices
will change only bidding strategy by generators, Halloran said.  
 ``Politicians may think they were born and bred smarter but
they're not,'' Halloran said. ``A utility guy is not going to bid
against himself.''  
 Commonwealth Edison customers will get $413 million in rate
relief, including $250 million this year, Anne Pramaggiore, the
utility's chief of regulatory affairs, told reporters. The result
will be a 13.5 percent average power-bill increase, down from a
24 percent increase that took effect in January. The average
household will pay $7 a month less this year, she said.  
 Exelon didn't provide an estimate of the effect on its
earnings over the four years covered by the settlement. St.
Louis-based Ameren said  earnings  next year will be reduced by 11
cents a share and results in 2009 and 2010 will have reductions
of 7 cents and 1 cent, respectively.  
 Ameren had been expected to earn $3.53 a share, excluding
some items, in 2007, the average estimate of 11 analysts compiled
by Bloomberg. Exelon was expected to earn $4.32, the average of
18 estimates, up from $3.33 on that basis in 2006.  
 Dynegy, Edison  
 Power-generators Dynegy Inc. and  Edison International (EIX)  will
each pay $25 million in the settlement and $1 million will be
provided by MidAmerican Energy Holdings, a unit of  Warren Buffett 's Berkshire Hathaway, Exelon said.  
 Dynegy said in a filing today with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission it will record costs of $25 million in the
2007 second quarter to cover its part of the agreement.  
 Shares of Exelon, which is scheduled to report second-
quarter financial results July 26, fell $4.43, or 5.5 percent, to
$75.94 in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Shares of
Ameren dropped $1.54, or 3 percent, to $50.19.  
 Shares of other companies that draw most or all of their
profit from power production, rather than regulated utility
sales, also fell. NRG Energy Inc., which has an Illinois plant,
dropped 6.4 percent, or $2.79, to $40.90. AES Corp. fell 5.4
percent, or $1.21, to $21.41, and Dynegy declined 6.2 percent, or
63 cents, to $9.55.  
 The agreement drove unjustified investor concern that other
states will move to reduce profit from power generators that sell
on wholesale markets, said Greg Phelps, who manages $5 billion
including utility stocks at MFC Global Investment Management in
 Boston .  
 ``Illinois is unique,'' said Phelps, who owns an undisclosed
number of Ameren shares. ``They should change their license plate
motto to `the shakedown state' because that's what they do to
their utilities.''  
 (Exelon will hold an investor call to discuss the settlement
at 11 a.m. New York time tomorrow, accessible on the company Web
site at  http://www.exeloncorp.com ).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Dieterich at   rdieterich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        