-- ‘Lord of the Ring’ Music Wizard to Work Magic at Radio City
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2010-10-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/-lord-of-the-ring-music-wizard-to-work-his-magic-at-radio-city-interview.html
When  Elijah Wood ’s face fills the 60-
foot  Radio City Music Hall  screen in “The Lord of the Rings:
The Two Towers,” you’ll be able to enjoy his pretty pores,
dimples and hair follicles in all their award-winning glory.
You’ll be able to savor an even more remarkable phenomenon too.
Three hundred live musicians will be blowing, plucking and
singing underneath him.  The event is part of a long-term project to screen the
three films of  Peter Jackson ’s “The Lord of the Rings” trilogy
with composer  Howard Shore ’s score played live. All three have
been performed to sell-out success in London, and now the second
film comes to New York in this new format.  I meet up with Shore, 63, in the U.K. capital to ask about
the project in the middle of a busy period of celebrations for
him. Shore was just in from Vienna, where he had received the
Max Steiner Film Music Achievement Award, and was in Britain to
help promote Doug Adams’s new book about his work, “The Music
of the Lord of the Rings Films.”  Sporting a soft brown suit and with a quiet, friendly
manner, the Canadian Shore appears more like an avuncular Ivy
League professor than a man who has won three  Academy Awards  and
who works with Hollywood’s glitziest stars.  ‘Visceral Feel’  Is it a different experience, even for him, seeing the film
with a live orchestra? “I’d already arranged a six-movement
symphony from the score from the whole trilogy, so I knew the
music in a concert-hall format,” he says. “Then the idea arose
to perform the full scores live to screen.  “When I first watched it in that way, I thought the music
had never sounded so vibrant or so full of colors. The visceral
feel of the power of the orchestra, chorus and children’s chorus
made a huge impact.”  The score and orchestral parts originally had been printed
in short sections, as only five to six minutes of film music
were recorded in one day. It took around nine months of archival
work on each film for Shore to reconstruct and re-edit the music
for live film performance.  It must be a logistical challenge for the conductor, Ludwig
Wicki, I suggest. “Yes, Ludwig is musically and technically
brilliant,” Shore says. “He has done all the performances so
far.”  How does he do it? “He has a small monitor in front of his
score on the podium that gives him a special color-coded
visualization of the musical entries. It’s actually a
computerized version of the same method that was used in the
1930s, when they used grease pencil marks on the celluloid. They
called them ‘pops and streamers’ then.”  Lang Lang Concerto  Shore proves to be a reflective interviewee, and becomes
even more thoughtful when I ask if a film composer has to have a
speedier level of invention than his concert-music counterpart.
“Time is such a relative thing,” he says after a pause. “I
just spent a year writing a piano concerto for  Lang Lang . Is
that a long time? Some concertos have been written much quicker.  “Tolkien took 14 years to write ‘The Lord of the Rings.’
What is time? What is speed? I guess the answer for a film
composer, is that it helps to be able to create things without
getting too bogged down in self doubt.”  Shore’s opera “The Fly,” based on the 1986  David Cronenberg  film, had its premiere in Paris in 2008 to mixed
reviews. Are there any similarities between film and opera?
“Yes,” he says. “I’ve learned a lot by going to the Met for
30 years. I studied operas to understand how stories could be
told through music. The relationship of pit to stage is
analogous with that of music and screen.”  Creating a Forest  “The Two Towers” has grossed $925 million since its
release in 2002. How does Shore spend his presumably lofty fees
from all those cigar-chomping Hollywood moguls he works for? “I
save some, and I also have a 10-acre forest outside New York
which I’m landscaping. I like to live in an environment I’m
actively creating. I feel I write better music that way. It’s my
greatest expense.”  Are his Oscars nice and safe back home? “They’re in my
studio,” he says. All lined up, I ask? A smile flickers across
his face. “Oh yes, they’re keeping each other warm.”  “The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers” will be performed
at Radio City Music Hall, New York, this evening and tomorrow,
with the 21st Century Symphony Orchestra, soprano Kaitlyn Lusk,
the Brooklyn Youth Chorus and the Dessoff Symphonic Choir,
conducted by Ludwig Wicki. Information:  http://www.radiocity.com 
or 1-866-858-0008 and  http://www.howardshore.com .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Warwick Thompson , in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 