-- ‘Secretariat’ Producer Played in Big Leagues, Modeled in Europe
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/-secretariat-producer-ciardi-pitched-in-major-leagues-modeled-in-europe.html
Movie producer Mark Ciardi loves
underdogs, which is why “ Secretariat ” focuses more on the
horse’s owner than the legendary thoroughbred.  Penny Chenery, played by  Diane Lane , was a Denver housewife
when she took over her ailing father’s horse farm and helped
Secretariat become the first Triple Crown winner in 25 years.
Her story is the heart of the inspirational film, which opens
tomorrow and co-stars  John Malkovich  as Secretariat’s flamboyant
trainer.  “The rest of her family wanted to sell the farm, but Penny
was determined to keep it,” Ciardi, 49, said in a phone
interview from his home near Los Angeles, where he lives with
his wife and two sons. “She was a woman in a man’s world who
had to overcome a lot of obstacles.”  Ciardi’s own success in the film industry is as unlikely as
Chenery’s rise to the top of horse racing in 1973. A former
major-league pitcher and fashion model, he and Mayhem Pictures
partner Gordon Gray launched their producing careers in the late
1990s while working out of Gray’s garage.  “We had talked about opening a sushi restaurant, but when
that fell through, we decided to make movies,” Ciardi said.
“We had no training or background. We just figured it out as we
went along.”  Over the past decade, Mayhem has produced a series of
popular films about underdog athletes, including “ The Rookie ,”
“ Miracle ” and “Invincible.” All three were distributed by
 Walt Disney Pictures , which has a deal with Mayhem that runs
through 2011.  Miracle on Ice  The subjects of those movies are a 35-year-old, high-school
teacher who became a major-league pitcher; the 1980 U.S. Olympic
hockey team that upset the mighty Russians; and a 30-year-old
teacher/bartender who made it as a National Football League
receiver. But Ciardi said sports isn’t their main appeal.  “If you’re just making a movie about sports, I don’t think
anyone really cares,” he said. “Sports fans have become very
sophisticated and they can watch ESPN all day. Our movies are
more about the emotional journey off the field.”  Ciardi’s professional journey took him to Milwaukee, where
he had a brief stint as a pitcher for the Brewers in 1987, and
Europe, where he spent several years as a model after his
baseball career ended. He said his athletic background helped
him succeed in his current job.  “There’s nothing harder than trying to make it in
professional sports,” Ciardi explained. “Though I didn’t have
a long major-league career, I think that confidence transferred
to everything I did after that. I’ve never been afraid to try
something new.”  ‘The Rookie’  Ciardi’s first movie, “The Rookie,” was a direct result
of his baseball experience. One of his minor-league teammates
was pitcher Jim Morris, who gave up the sport because of arm
injuries and became a teacher and baseball coach in his home
state of Texas.  A decade later, Morris promised his high-school players he
would try out for a major-league team if they won the district
championship. When they won the title, he kept his pledge,
signed with the Tampa Bay organization and ended up pitching 21
games for the Rays in 1999 and 2000.  Ciardi rediscovered Morris while reading a magazine article
about his former teammate’s comeback just before he got called
up to the majors. The fledgling producer decided the story would
make a terrific movie, but he wasn’t the only one.  “Every studio was interested,” Ciardi said, “but somehow
we got it. I think it was meant to be. If I was ever going to do
a movie in my life, this was it.”  Temperamental Horses  Ciardi has produced two films starring Dwayne “The Rock”
Johnson, the former football player and professional wrestler.
Following the success of the family comedies “ The Game Plan ”
and “ Tooth Fairy ,” Mayhem is planning a third collaboration
with Johnson, an action movie called “Protection.”  “He’s one of the nicest guys in show business,” Ciardi
said. “He can do comedy, he can do action, he can do just about
anything.”  That’s not true with horses, who can be temperamental on
movie sets. Six horses -- four thoroughbreds, one quarterhorse
and a four-legged wonder that specialized in tricks -- were used
to play Secretariat. The crew shot close-ups with a small camera
that was attached to a stick and stuck out of a car that moved
alongside the horses as they ran.  “We used a $600, off-the-shelf Olympus camera with high-
def capability on the video,” Ciardi said. “Sometimes the
simplest solutions are the best.”  To contact the writer on the story:
 Rick Warner  in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 