-- `Smart Girls' Strip for Calendar on Putin's 58th Birthday to Show Support
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a   a n d   L u c i a n   K i m
-- 2010-10-07T08:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/-smart-girls-strip-for-calendar-on-putin-s-58th-birthday-to-show-support.html
Twelve Moscow State University
journalism students posed in lingerie for a calendar
congratulating Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  on his 58th
birthday, which he celebrates today.  The 259-ruble ($8.73)  calendar , which went on sale in
Groupe Auchan SA supermarkets in the capital yesterday, features
female students and captions such as “You put out the forest
fires, but I’m still burning,” and “You only get better with
the years.”  “Any man would like to receive such a beautiful present
for his birthday,”  Vladimir Tabak , 23, the initiator and
publisher of the calendar, said by telephone. He said the
calendar, which had a print run of 50,000, doesn’t have a
political message. Tabak, a  journalism school  graduate, said he
wanted to showcase “smart girls” from his alma mater.  The New York-based  Committee to Protect Journalists  ranks
Russia as the eighth most dangerous country for reporters in
terms of the impunity of their killers. The murder of  Anna Politkovskaya , who was shot in her apartment building four years
ago today, hasn’t been solved. Investigators yesterday extended
their probe into the killing until February.  Putin spokesman  Dmitry Peskov  said by telephone that he’d
seen the calendar on the Internet and will report to the prime
minister about it later today when he celebrates with family and
friends in his hometown, St. Petersburg.  ‘Good Students’  “The girls look nice, I hope they’re also good students,”
Peskov said.  The Kremlin has tried to channel young people’s energy into
pro-government movements such as “Idushchie vmeste” (Walking
Together) and “Nashi” (Ours), which were formed during Putin’s
eight-year presidency. Peskov said he didn’t know who was behind
the calendar.  “Some girls in the journalism department decided a
calendar would be a great way to show our support of Putin’s
policies,” Ksenia Seleznyova, an 18-year-old second-year
student, said by telephone. She is pictured topless as the
calendar’s Miss December and included her mobile phone number
for Putin to call if he wants a “personal” birthday greeting.  “If Putin actually calls me, I’ll wish him happy birthday
with all my heart,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  