-- Adobe Shares Surge on Report of Microsoft's Interest in Merger
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-10-08T00:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/adobe-shares-surge-on-report-of-microsoft-s-interest-in-merger.html
Adobe Systems Inc.  shares surged as
much as 17 percent after the New York Times reported that
Microsoft Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  recently
met with Adobe CEO  Shantanu Narayen .  The executives recently had a meeting at Adobe’s offices in
San Francisco, according to two people familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be identified because the meeting was private.  Earlier, the New York Times reported that the discussion
centered on Apple Inc.’s control of the mobile-phone market and
how the two companies could work together to compete, the Times
said. A possible  acquisition  of Adobe by Microsoft was among the
options, according to the newspaper’s Bits blog.  “Adobe and Microsoft share millions of customers around the
world and the CEOs of the two companies do meet from time to
time,” said Charles Sipkins, a spokesman for Adobe. He declined
to comment on the “timing or topics of their private meetings.”  Adobe  rose $2.96, or 12 percent, to $28.69 at 4 p.m. on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. Earlier in the session, the shares jumped
as high as $30, triggering the circuit breaker halt for five
minutes. The stock has declined 22 percent this year.  Adobe has clashed with Apple CEO  Steve Jobs , who banned
Adobe’s flash video software from Apple’s mobile devices. Adobe
won a partial victory on Sept. 9, when Apple eased restrictions
on creating applications for its iPhone and iPad devices. Apple
had barred developers from using Adobe’s Flash video software.  Rival Standard  Still, the change didn’t let Flash apps run inside the
browser on Apple devices, and that’s a larger concern,  Jeff Gaggin , an analyst at Avian Securities Inc. in New York, said
last month. Apple, which dominates the market for mobile apps,
is promoting an Internet standard called HTML5 instead.  At the meeting, which included a “small entourage of
deputies,” Ballmer and Adobe discussed how they might counter
Apple’s position in smartphones, the New York Times reported.
The companies had held informal discussions about a Microsoft
acquisition of Adobe several years ago, according to the report.
Adobe has a market value of $15.1 billion.  Frank Shaw , a spokesman at Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment.  Adobe forecast sales last month that fell short of
analysts’ estimates, sending the shares down the most in eight
years. Cash-strapped schools aren’t paying for as many copies of
the product, which includes Photoshop and Illustrator, the San
Jose, California-based company said. The sluggish economy in
Japan, typically Adobe’s biggest Asian market, also hampered
sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Regan  in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  