-- Lady Gaga Flight-Dance Video Boosts Cebu Air Profile
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2010-10-08T07:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/lady-gaga-flight-dance-video-wins-publicity-for-cebu-air-s-public-offering.html
Cebu Air Inc.  flight attendants twirl
seat belts and spin round in life jackets as  Lady Gaga ’s song
“Just Dance” blares out over aircraft speakers.  The  video  of a pre-takeoff safety demonstration, posted on
YouTube on Sept. 30, has drawn more than 8 million hits and been
covered by CNN and Fox News, generating publicity for the
carrier as it seeks 23.3 billion pesos ($538 million) in the
Philippines’ largest initial public offering in 5 years.  The clip was recorded by a passenger and wasn’t a move by
the Manila-based airline to drum up interest in its share sale,
said  Candice Iyog , vice president for marketing.  “The timing though is impeccable,” she said. The carrier,
the Philippines’ largest budget airline, will have the dance on
other services, she said. The IPO shares were priced today at
125 pesos apiece, in the middle of the target range.  The video may also help revive the local tourism industry
following international media coverage of a fatal 10-hour bus
hijacking in Manila, according to the government. Thousands of
Chinese holidaymakers canceled trips after eight tourists from
Hong Kong were killed in the Aug. 23 incident.  “People will see that this is a singing country, a dancing
country,” Philippine Tourism Secretary  Alberto Lim  said in an
interview. “It will help persuade people to come here.”  The nation, an archipelago of more than 7,000 islands, many
fringed with fine-sand beaches and coral reefs, is working to
double  tourism  arrivals in six years to help spur economic
growth. Last year, it drew 3 million tourists, about a 10th of
the number that visited Malaysia, according to Philippine
government data and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.  ‘Safety Dance’  Carriers have previously used gimmicks to liven up pre-
flight safety announcements and draw publicity. A Southwest
Airlines Co. steward rapping a preflight announcement was also
posted on YouTube.  Air New Zealand Ltd.  has made flight-safety
videos featuring naked crew in painted-on uniforms and another
with international rugby players.  Three Cebu Air male attendants today danced the drill to
“Safety Dance” by Men Without Hats on a Manila-Davao City 
flight piloted by women, Iyog said. “We’re an equal opportunity
carrier.”  Cebu Air and parent  JG Summit Holdings Inc.  are selling
186.64 million new and existing shares in the IPO. They may also
exercise an overallotment option for a further 28 million shares.
The IPO, the Philippines’ largest since SM Investments Corp.
raised 28.8 billion pesos in 2005, will help fund expansion
plans and new aircraft.  Cebu Air, which has a fleet of 29 planes, employs about 600
attendants and plans to hire another 300. It regularly runs
games and competitions in flight to entertain passengers.  More Passengers  The company made a first-half profit of $68.4 million,
according to its IPO prospectus. It also carried more passengers
than larger rival Philippines Airlines Inc. on domestic routes
in the period. Philippine Air is tackling a labor dispute with
attendants and a pilot shortage.  The Lady Gaga dance may help Cebu Air sell tickets, while
having little impact on IPO demand, said  Jonathan Ravelas , a
strategist at Banco de Oro Unibank in Manila.  “An investor’s decision to buy shares depends on the price
and earnings outlook -- not on how well the airline stewardesses
can gyrate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clarissa Batino  in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
 Cecilia Yap  in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  