-- African Union Troops Aiming to Expand Their Presence in Somalia's Capital
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-10-07T10:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/african-union-troops-aiming-to-expand-their-presence-in-somalia-s-capital.html
African Union peacekeepers aim to
assert control over half of the embattled Somali capital
Mogadishu by month-end and fan out to the countryside once
additional troops arrive, the deputy head of the mission said.  The AU force of about 8,000 mainly Ugandan and Burundian
soldiers is now in charge of more than 40 percent of the city,
Wafula Wamunyinyi, deputy special representative of the chairman
of the AU Commission for Somalia, told reporters today in
Nairobi, the capital of neighboring Kenya.  “That’s the area where we consider under control where
there is relative peace and freedom to move about,” Wamunyinyi
said. “Our soldiers have been moving to expand their area.”  Somalia’s Western-backed government has been battling
insurgents including al-Shabaab, which has pledged loyalty to
al-Qaeda, since 2007. Most of the south and center of Somalia
and parts of Mogadishu have been sized by the rebel militia.  Amisom, as the AU mission is known, could achieve “much
more gains if support is forthcoming,” Wamunyinyi said. That
includes raising the number of troops, as well as money and
equipment, he said.  Among the African nations willing to increase assistance,
Burundi is ready to send 1,000 soldiers, Guinea is likely to
commit 2,000 troops and Malawi is considering its own
contribution, Wamunyinyi said.  A group of East African countries, known as the Inter-
Governmental Authority on Development, said on July 6 it wanted
Amisom and the United Nations Security Council to raise 20,000
peacekeepers for the Horn of Africa nation.  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central administration
since the ouster of former dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 