-- AGL to Gain From Australian Climate Effort, Southern Cross Equities Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-07T07:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/agl-to-gain-from-australian-climate-effort-southern-cross-equities-says.html
AGL Energy Ltd. , whose shares have
risen 19 percent this year, remains undervalued and is set to
gain as Australia shifts to renewable energy and gas to tackle
climate change, Southern Cross Equities Ltd. said.  Australia is “a long way behind the global policy curve
due to the political ineptitude and regulatory uncertainty
created” by the government,  Charlie Aitken , head of
institutional dealing at the Sydney-based brokerage, wrote in a
report today. “Yet I sense a genuine change is emerging.”  The country’s largest electricity and gas retailer would
benefit from a carbon pollution reduction policy that encourages
a switch to gas from coal-fired power generation and spurs
development of alternative energy sources, Aitken said. Coal
accounts for more than 80 percent of Australia’s electric power,
according to the Australian Coal Association.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  pledged to restart an effort
to reduce emissions after replacing Kevin Rudd in June. After
holding on to power, she established a committee, due to meet
today for the first time, as part of an accord with the Greens
Party to explore ways to impose a price on carbon emissions.  AGL  rose 2.2 percent to A$16.70 in Sydney trading, while
the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index  was little changed.  Sydney-based AGL said in August it would proceed with
building a A$1 billion ($980 million) wind farm in the state of
Victoria as Australia pursues a target of generating one fifth
of its electricity from alternative energy sources.  Investors are undervaluing AGL’s gas reserves, Aitken said.
“As Australia moves closer to a consensus on climate change
policy and a decision on a carbon price, I expect listed gas
companies, or companies with a large portfolio of gas reserves,
will attract a ‘green’” price-to-earnings premium, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 