-- Thai Premier Abhisit Rules Out Any Thaksin Amnesty in Talks on Peace Deal
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2010-10-07T04:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/thai-premier-abhisit-rules-out-any-thaksin-amnesty-in-talks-on-peace-deal.html
Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
said he is open to any negotiation with the opposition that
doesn’t include an amnesty for ex-leader  Thaksin Shinawatra ,
whom he blamed for thwarting peace deals earlier this year.  “We can talk elections, we can talk constitutional
amendments, we can talk policies, but I don’t think any
government would allow anyone to say, ‘Hey, I’m not going to
accept the law,’” Abhisit said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “If you do that, you’re just
inviting more trouble in the future.”  An agreement between Abhisit and the pro-Thaksin opposition
may help end a cycle of deadly street protests that has soured
the investment climate since Thaksin’s ouster in a 2006 coup.
Gun battles between troops and his supporters in April and May
killed at least 89 people, and police blame his backers for
explosions in Bangkok that have claimed five lives since then.  The pro-Thaksin Puea Thai party, the largest in Parliament,
has sought peace talks with Abhisit. Thaksin has supported
protests from overseas since fleeing a 2008 jail sentence for
abuse of power, addressing rallies by phone or video conference.
This year’s rallies started two weeks after a court confiscated
46.4 billion baht ($1.6 billion) from his family’s 2006 sale of
 Shin Corp.  to Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte.  Thailand attracted $6.1 billion in foreign direct
investment last year, third in Southeast Asia behind Singapore
and Vietnam, Asian Development Bank statistics show. In 2006,
which marked the end of Thaksin’s five years as prime minister,
Thailand drew five times more investment than Vietnam.  Government Instability  Government and policy instability were cited as the biggest
concerns for doing business in Thailand among 13,000 executives
surveyed in the World Economic Forum’s 2010-2011 Global
Competitiveness Report.  In May, Abhisit offered a November election to the
protesters who had barricaded a central Bangkok business
district with bamboo sticks and rubber tires. He sent in troops
when they failed to disperse after a set deadline.  “I know that he was behind the rejections every time,”
Abhisit said, referring to Thaksin. “It saddens me that when
there are clear solutions being offered where we can avoid
losses, he didn’t take those offers, and he was willing to see
his own supporters being part of the losses.”  ‘No Direct Role’  Thaksin “had no direct role in convincing the core leaders
whether to accept or reject” Abhisit’s proposal in May,
 Noppadon Pattama , his spokesman, said by phone today. “Thaksin
has stressed all along that the demands should be for the public,
for the country, not for his personal interest.”  Thaksin agrees with Puea Thai’s proposal to reconcile with
the government, he said.  “Any injustice that followed the 2006 coup should be
addressed,” Noppadon said. “That includes everything with
aggrieved parties, including Thaksin, the red shirts and members
of the public. We should talk and start afresh.”  Abhisit took power in a 2008 parliamentary vote after a
court disbanded the ruling pro-Thaksin party for election fraud.
He has implemented programs to refinance loans and guarantee
crop prices in a bid to win over poorer voters whose support has
helped Thaksin-linked parties win the past four elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  