-- AIG Plane-Leasing Unit Repays $2 Billion Credit Line
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-10-07T16:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/aig-s-plane-leasing-business-repays-2-billion-credit-line.html
American International Group Inc. ’s
plane-leasing unit repaid the $2 billion credit line drained
after the firm lost access to credit markets in 2008, improving
financial flexibility as the company seeks to add aircraft.  “We are in a much stronger  liquidity  position,”  Fred Cromer , chief financial officer of International Lease Finance
Corp. said in a statement. “This provides our core relationship
banks with more flexibility to support us in the future.”  Henri Courpron , named CEO of ILFC this year, said in July
that the firm was in talks to buy jets for the first time since
2007 after regaining access to private capital. The Los Angeles-
based company, which had been shut off from its usual sources of
funding because of downgrades to AIG in 2008, increased
liquidity by more than $12.5 billion since March by extending
credit agreements, selling aircraft and  issuing bonds .  The credit line was created in October 2005 and fully
tapped in September 2008, the month New York-based AIG needed a
bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion, ILFC said. AIG announced
a plan last week to repay bailout funds to the U.S. Treasury
Department and Federal Reserve and regain independence.  Bank of America Corp., Credit Suisse Group AG, HSBC
Holdings Plc, JPMorgan & Chase Co. and Societe Generale SA are
among lenders on the credit line, ILFC said in a 2005 filing.
The plane-leasing unit said in August that it lacked “any
borrowing capacity” on credit lines as of June 30.  The cost to protect ILFC debt has fallen this year. Five-
year  credit-default swaps  tied to the company have declined to
472 basis points yesterday from 836 basis points on Dec. 31,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts typically drop as
investor confidence improves.  ILFC has made “significant progress” tapping capital
markets this year to raise funding, Standard & Poor’s analyst
 Christopher DeNicolo  said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  