-- AIG’s Real Numbers Still Shrouded in Secrecy: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2010-10-07T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/aig-s-real-numbers-still-shrouded-in-secrecy-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
  American International Group Inc .,
the bailed-out insurance company, says it’s poised to emerge as
a “financially strong, independent company” once it repays the
U.S. government. That claim might be more credible if AIG
started showing a truer picture of its financial condition.  The choice belongs to AIG and, ultimately, the Treasury
Department. Two years ago when the government seized control of
AIG, the Treasury in effect took a 79.9 percent ownership stake
in the company, through preferred shares and warrants it
received as part of AIG’s $182 billion bailout package. By
keeping its stake below 80 percent, the government ensured that
a financial-reporting method known as push-down accounting
wouldn’t be permitted under U.S. accounting rules.  The reason that was so important? Had AIG chosen to
implement push-down accounting, it would have had to undergo a
complete re-assessment of all its assets and liabilities. And,
with a few possible exceptions, the company would have been
required to begin showing them on its balance sheet at their
 fair market values , which may have left AIG’s books looking a
lot worse.  The government wanted to avoid the possibility of this
outcome, as the Congressional Oversight Panel for the
government’s bailout program chronicled in a June  report  on AIG.
So it structured the Treasury’s ownership position to make sure
that “push-down accounting is disallowed and not an issue,”
the panel said. Hence, the 79.9 percent limit.  Bigger Stake  The Treasury’s stake is now set to  increase  significantly,
however. One consequence, judging by the numbers AIG cited last
week in a press release, is that push-down accounting would
become optional, though not required. While AIG has given no
indication that it’s inclined to redo its balance-sheet, the
issue of whether it should is now ripe.  Under AIG’s plan to repay the government, the Treasury
would swap its current holdings, now valued at $49.1 billion,
for a  92.1 percent  stake in AIG’s common stock. Once the
exchange is completed, the Treasury then would sell its shares
on the open market, a process that could take years to complete.  Just how much demand materializes for those shares will
depend partly on whether investors believe they can trust AIG’s
numbers. For many of them, an important question will be this:
What are the items on AIG’s balance sheet actually worth?  The government might not want the public to know the
answer. Showing AIG’s assets and liabilities at fair value
conceivably could scare some investors away, reducing the
Treasury’s chances of recouping its money. As for taxpayers,
divulging such information could reveal if the government paid
more for its stake than it’s worth.  Determining AIG’s Worth  The rules for push-down accounting, which the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s staff laid out in a 2001  memo , hinge
on rigid numerical tests for determining if a company has become
“substantially wholly owned” by another entity. The method is
prohibited with less than 80 percent ownership, permitted if
ownership is 80 percent or more but less than 95 percent, and
required (with some exceptions) at 95 percent or more.  The process works like this. When a transaction or series
of deals results in a company becoming substantially owned by
another entity, the new owner allocates its purchase price among
the assets and liabilities it acquired, using their newly
assigned fair values. Those values then are  pushed down  to the
acquired company, which can cause either positive or negative
adjustments to the items on its balance sheet.  Real World Numbers  The effects of push-down accounting on AIG’s books probably
would be sizeable. As of June 30, AIG said 54 percent of the
$850.5 billion of assets on its balance sheet were measured at
fair value on a recurring basis, meaning 46 percent weren’t.
Just 4 percent of its $745.9 billion of liabilities were.  One example of an asset carried at cost, rather than fair
value, is a $29 billion line on AIG’s books called deferred
acquisition costs, which include sales commissions and other
expenses related to acquiring and renewing customers’ insurance
policies. These deferred costs aren’t saleable. It is money out
the door. Their fair value wouldn’t be anywhere close to $29
billion in the real world. Yet that figure represented 38
percent of AIG’s shareholder equity as of June 30.  Other fair-value adjustments could result in increases to
AIG’s equity. For instance, AIG said the fair values for some
liabilities were lower than what its balance sheet showed.  An AIG spokesman, Mark Herr, declined to comment for this
column, as did a Treasury spokesman,  Mark Paustenbach . My guess
is that neither Treasury nor AIG wants to highlight that push-
down accounting is back on the table as an option. If more
investors knew that it was, they just might demand the
additional transparency.  If AIG is truly healthy, it should open its kimono.    Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  