-- Taipei Office Vacancies to Decline in 2011 on China Ties, Jones Lang Says
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2010-10-07T03:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/taipei-office-vacancies-to-fall-in-2011-on-china-ties-jones-lang-says.html
Taipei’s prime office vacancy rate
will decline next year from a record high in 2010 as more
Chinese and foreign investors come to the island after the
opening up of trade relations between  Taiwan  and China,  Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc.  said.  The prime office vacancy rate in Taipei will drop to 18
percent at the end of 2011 from 20 percent forecast for the end
of this year, said  Sherry Wu , the national director of
investments and markets at the Taiwan unit of the second-largest
publicly traded commercial property broker. The rate increased
to 16.27 percent at the end of September from 16.13 percent at
the end of 2009.  “More mainland companies will set up a local presence
following the cross-strait trade pact, helping reduce Grade-A
office vacancies in 2011 because there will be very limited new
supply,” Tony Chao, managing director for the Taiwan unit said
in the same interview yesterday.  Tariffs on trade were reduced, and Taiwan, across the
Taiwan Strait from the mainland, and China widened access to
each other’s markets after the Economic Cooperative Framework
Agreement took effect Sept. 12.  Bank of China Ltd.  and  Bank of Communications Co.  opened
representative offices in the Xinyi district of Taipei last
month, said Wu.  While representative offices require smaller spaces, a
branch with more employees needs an office larger than 300 pings
(990 square meters), Chao said. Chinese banks have to open a
representative office in Taiwan for at least one year before
they can establish a branch. A ping, a standard measure of space
in Taiwan, equals 3.3 square meters, or about 36 square feet.  Foreign Investors  Closer ties between Taiwan and the mainland will also lure
foreign investors, leading to demand for business centers and
office space, Chao said.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA , Spain’s second-biggest
bank, plans to invest $20 million to upgrade to a Taiwan branch
next year from a representative office, Manuel Galatas, managing
director for Asia, said in Taipei Sept. 21.  Taiwan plans to ease restrictions and allow individual
Chinese to visit Taiwan from January, Chiang Pin-kung, the
island’s top negotiator with China, said July 22. Taiwan at
present permits Chinese tourist groups, not individuals.  “Surges in the number of Chinese tourists will boost
consumption and the economy,” Wu said. That could boost demand
for office space from service industries such as travel agencies,
she added.  Falling vacancies will bolster rents in Taipei. The average
monthly gross achievable rent per ping will increase about 3
percent to 5 percent at the end of next year, Wu said. Average
rents per ping in Taipei were NT$2,371 ($76) a month at the end
of last year and will remain steady this year, according to
Jones Lang LaSalle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adela Lin  in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  