-- Ally, Airgas, BGC, Wells Fargo, Apple in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-07T10:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/airgas-alberto-culver-petters-apple-ambac-landry-s-in-court-news.html
Ohio sued Ally Financial Inc.,
claiming the lender used fraudulent practices in foreclosing on
home mortgages, Richard Cordray, the state’s attorney general,
said.  The state’s suit alleges that Ally’s GMAC mortgage unit
violated state consumer law and committed fraud by filing false
affidavits in foreclosure proceedings, Cordray said at a news
conference yesterday in Cleveland. The state will seek penalties
of as much as $25,000 for each violation, he said.  While Ohio residents “were fighting to save their homes,
this loan servicer benefitted financially from the dire
circumstances,” Cordray said. “The law requires that
foreclosures as well as home sales be handled properly.”  Cordray is one of at least seven state attorneys general in
the U.S. probing whether lenders used false documents and
signatures to justify hundreds of thousands of  foreclosures .
Ally,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Bank of America Corp.  have
suspended foreclosures or evictions in 23 states where courts
have jurisdiction over home seizures.  Cordray said he would also ask JPMorgan and Bank of America
to stop foreclosures and sent letters to Wells Fargo & Co. and
Citibank Inc. seeking a meeting to discuss affidavit procedures.  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Ally, declined to comment.  Alberto-Culver Sued by Fund Over Unilever Offer  Alberto-Culver Co. , the maker of VO5, Nexxus and TRESemme
hair-care products, was sued by a pension fund that contends
 Unilever ’s planned $3.7 billion takeover will shortchange
investors.  Alberto-Culver directors are obligated to get the highest
price for the stock, attorneys for the Laborers Local 235
Benefits Fund said in a lawsuit filed Oct. 5 in Delaware
Chancery Court in Wilmington.  “The process leading up to the board’s decision to agree
to the proposed transaction was severely flawed, and not in any
way designed to elicit the most economically favorable
transaction for Alberto-Culver’s shareholders,” John Kairis, a
lawyer for the fund, wrote in the complaint.  Unilever, the maker of Dove soap, agreed to pay $37.50 a
share in cash for Alberto-Culver, based in Melrose Park,
Illinois. That’s about 19 percent more than the Sept. 24 closing
price. The companies agreed to a $125 million fee if the deal is
terminated.  Dan Stone, a spokesman for Alberto-Culver, said the company
hadn’t seen the complaint and he couldn’t immediately comment.  The case is Laborers Local 235 Benefits Fund v. Lavin,
CA5873, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Petters Group Trustee Sues Firm for $105 Million  The bankruptcy trustee for Petters Group Worldwide LLC,
whose founder was convicted of fraud last year, sued a
Minneapolis investment firm seeking to recoup at least $105
million for creditors.  The lawsuit, filed at the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Minneapolis Oct. 5, alleges that Arrowhead Capital Management
LLC and affiliated funds could be liable for as much as $5.1
billion transferred to them over more than 10 years.  Thomas Petters was convicted by a federal jury in St. Paul,
Minnesota, last year for leading a $3.5 billion Ponzi scheme and
sentenced to 50 years in prison in April. Arrowhead and its
affiliates received money from Petters that had come from other
investors, the trustee said.  “Defendants knew or should have known that they were
benefiting from fraudulent activity or, at a minimum, failed to
exercise reasonable due diligence with respect to Petters” and
its affiliates, according to the complaint filed by Douglas
Kelley, the trustee.  Arrowhead founder James Fry didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  The Arrowhead lawsuit is the largest so far stemming from
the Petters bankruptcy. The trustee yesterday also sued a
Houston investment firm, Ark Royal Capital LLC, seeking to
recoup $1.2 million for the estate.  The bankruptcy case is In re Petters Co., 08-45257, and the
lawsuit is Kelley v. Metro I LLC, 10-04328, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Minnesota (Minneapolis).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Airgas Would Have Weighed Bid of $70 a Share, CEO Says  Airgas Inc.’s chief executive officer testified that he
would have considered a $5.9 billion buyout bid from Air
Products & Chemicals Inc. last month after shareholders voted to
knock three incumbent directors off the gas company’s board.  Airgas’ CEO Peter McCausland said one of his company’s
bankers was approached by an Air Products lawyer after the Sept.
15 vote and said the maker of industrial gasses might be ready
to pay as much as $69 per share for its smaller rival. Airgas
has rebuffed Air Products’ $5.5 billion purchase offer.  If “Air Products made a $70 bid and did the things I
wanted, I’d recommend” the offer to the board, McCausland
testified in the trial of Air Products’ lawsuit over Airgas’
refusal to accept its bid. At $70 per share, the offer would
have been worth $5.9 billion as of Sept. 15.  Air Products, the second-biggest U.S. industrial-gases
producer behind  Praxair Inc. , sued Radnor, Pennsylvania-based
Airgas on Feb. 4 to force consideration of the bid.  As part of the case,  Airgas  is asking Chandler to
invalidate a bylaw approved Sept. 15 by shareholders that added
three Air Products nominees to the Airgas  board . The bylaw would
also move Airgas’s annual meeting to January from April at the
earliest.  Moving up the annual meeting will unfairly allow Air
Products to try to knock more Airgas nominees off the board and
take control, according to Airgas executives. Chandler has
agreed to decide both issues in the nonjury trial.  The case is Air Products & Chemicals Inc. v. Airgas Inc.,
5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits  BGC Sues 8 Ex-Mint Brokers for Joining Rivals  BGC Partners Inc. , an inter-dealer brokerage, is suing to
prevent eight brokers who worked for a London-based firm it
acquired from leaving to work for rivals.  The two sides have agreed the eight men won’t begin working
for firms including BGC rival  GFI Group Inc.  for at least
another two weeks, when another hearing in the case is
scheduled, lawyers for BGC and the brokers said at a court
hearing yesterday in London. New York-based BGC added more than
100 brokers in August by acquiring Mint Partners and Mint
Equities, where the eight defendants worked.  “As a small number of brokers failed to honor the
transference of their contracts during this transition, BGC is
determined to protect its business interest against contractual
interference and unlawful conduct,” BGC spokesman Robert
Hubbell said in a statement yesterday.  The brokers -- Andrew Goddard, Simon Johnson, Alan Moutrie,
Garry Johnson, Ray White, Carl Racey, Warren Mueller, and
Stephen Johnson -- were sued by BGC in September, according to
court papers. In March, a London judge ruled that BGC and two of
its executives unlawfully conspired to hire  Tullett Prebon Plc 
staff.  James Corrish, a lawyer representing four of the
defendants, declined to comment on the case or on who is
advising the others.  The case is BGC Brokers LP v. Johnson & ors, case no.
HQ10X03696, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division
(London).  Kerviel Says He Feels ‘Crushed’ by SocGen Verdict  Jerome Kerviel said he feels “crushed by the weight of the
punishment,” in his first interview after being sentenced to
three years in jail and ordered to repay  Societe Generale SA  for
its 4.9 billion-euro ($6.8 billion) trading loss.  Judge Dominique Pauthe held Kerviel solely responsible for
the loss Oct. 5, saying he deceived the bank in amassing 50
billion euros in futures positions. He found Kerviel guilty on
all three counts: breach of trust, forging documents and
computer hacking.  “I have the feeling like they want to make me pay for
all,” Kerviel told  Europe1  radio yesterday. The former trader
will remain free pending appeal. Meanwhile, he said he’ll
continue working as a computer consultant, a profession he got
into after being fired from France’s  second largest  bank in
2008.  The trading loss, announced Jan. 24, 2008, prompted Societe
Generale’s then-chief executive officer Daniel Bouton to
describe Kerviel as a “terrorist.” The court rejected defense
arguments that his superiors knew of his actions and that the
bank’s decision to unwind the bets over three days of falling
markets caused the loss.  The bank indicated it is open to negotiations on the
restitution Kerviel was ordered to pay.  “We are a responsible bank and have no desire to drive a
man into debt for so many years,” Caroline Guillaumin, a
spokeswoman for Societe Generale, said in an interview yesterday
with France Info radio. The bank is “totally open” to finding
“a solution reasonable to all parties.”  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Wells Fargo Resolves Mortgage Claims by Eight States  Wells Fargo & Co.  agreed to pay $24 million to eight states
and make more than $772 million in loan modifications to resolve
allegations that companies it acquired deceptively marketed
adjustable rate mortgage loans.  The states claimed Wachovia Corp., which bought World
Savings Inc. and was then acquired by Wells Fargo’s home
mortgage unit in 2009, left consumers with massive debt by
failing to give proper warning of the effect “pick-a-payment”
adjustable rate mortgages could have. The low payment options
often didn’t cover monthly interest, leading to defaults and
foreclosures, the states said.  “In many cases, those who seek out these ‘minimum payment’
option mortgages are the very people who have the most limited
financial resources,” New Jersey Attorney General Paula T. Dow
said in a statement. “Signing them up for loan terms that sound
attractive without warning them of the potential pitfalls is
wrong.”  Wells Fargo will forgive interest and late fees for
eligible delinquent borrowers, the states said. Loan
modifications will be offered to 8,715 borrowers, Arizona
Attorney General Terry Goddard said in a statement yesterday.
The total economic value of these modifications, including
reduced interest rates, term extensions and forgiveness of
principal is more than $772 million, Goddard said.  The six other states covered settlement are Colorado,
Florida, Illinois, Nevada, Texas and Washington.  San Francisco-based Wells Fargo said yesterday that the $24
million payment will be used to help the states with customer
outreach and to prevent or mitigate the impacts of foreclosures
in their communities.  “In light of the unprecedented changes in our economy,
Wells Fargo will continue to work with leaders across the nation
to help stabilize communities,” Mike Held, co-president of
Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, said yesterday in a statement.  Ex-Jefferies Money Manager Guilty of Insider Trading  Joseph Contorinis, a former money manager for the  Jefferies
Paragon Fund , was convicted in an insider trading scheme that
prosecutors say netted more than $7 million in illegal profits.  A federal jury in Manhattan yesterday convicted Contorinis,
46, of seven counts of securities fraud and one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud. Prosecutors claimed
Contorinis illegally traded on inside merger tips supplied by
Nicos Stephanou, an investment banker who was the government’s
chief witness in the trial.  “Today’s guilty verdict sends yet another strong message
of deterrence to anyone who is thinking about gaming the system
like Joseph Contorinis did,” Preet Bharara, U.S. Attorney for
Manhattan, said in a statement.  Contorinis faces as long as 20 years in prison on the
securities fraud counts and five years on the conspiracy count
when he’s sentenced Feb. 4. The jury, which delivered the
verdict on its second day of deliberations, also acquitted
Contorinis on two securities fraud counts.  Mark Pomerantz, a lawyer for Contorinis, didn’t return a
phone message seeking comment on the verdict.  The case is U.S. v. Contorinis, 09-CR-1083, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New York City Pension Fund Settles Apple Class Action  Apple Inc.  has agreed to pay $16.5 million to settle a
class action suit by the New York City Employees’ Retirement
System that the company improperly backdated stock options
between 2001 and 2006, the city said in a statement.  Apple will return $14 million to shareholders and
contribute a total of $2.5 million to corporate governance
programs at various U.S. universities, including Harvard, Yale
and Columbia, the city Comptroller’s office and Law Department
said in a statement.  Administrative and attorneys’ fees of $4 million will be
paid separately by Apple, the statement said, bringing the total
value of the settlement over $20 million.  “This settlement is an excellent example of shareholder
advocacy and compensates shareholders for systemic options
backdating at the company,” Corporation Counsel Michael A.
Cardozo, the city’s chief legal officer and counsel to the
city’s pension funds, said in the statement. “We are happy to
have reached an accord with Apple after four years of
litigation.”  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, had no immediate
comment.  The city will seek preliminary approval of the settlement
in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
tomorrow, the statement said.  Those eligible for distributions from the settlement fund
purchased Apple common stock at a price in excess of $65.71
between Aug. 24, 2001, and June 29, 2006, the statement said.  Ambac to Withdraw $6 Billion in Claims Against Lehman  Ambac Financial Group Inc.  agreed to withdraw more than $6
billion in claims against bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 
in a proposed settlement of disputes between the two companies
over derivatives transactions, according to a court filing.  The claims, filed in September 2009, were based on Lehman’s
“purported breach of obligations” related to residential
mortgage-backed securities deals with Ambac, Lehman said in an
Oct. 5 filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York. Settling
with Ambac, Lehman would release the insurer from demands for
unspecified payments and from liabilities under derivatives
transactions insured by Ambac, it said.  Ambac, the second-largest bond insurer before the onset of
the credit crisis, lost its AAA credit ratings in 2008 after a
surge in losses on securities backed by mortgages. In March, it
started “rehabilitation proceedings” in a Wisconsin court that
bars Lehman from suing the company over the claims or insured
derivatives deals, according to the filing.  Even if it could sue, “the cash payout received in the
rehabilitation proceedings would likely be only a fraction of
the face amount of any claim the debtors may ultimately
acquire,” Lehman said.  Lehman’s proposed settlement, which needs a judge’s
approval, comes up for a hearing on Oct. 20.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Novartis Wins Trial Over Jaw Injury Blamed on Drugs  A New Jersey jury ruled that  Novartis AG , the Swiss
drugmaker, provided adequate warnings about the risk of its
bone-strengthening medicines, rejecting a lawsuit by a woman who
claimed the drugs destroyed her jaw.  Jane Bessemer, 73, sued Novartis after developing jawbone
damage while taking Aredia and Zometa to slow bone loss as she
battled breast cancer. Jurors in state court in New Brunswick,
New Jersey, ruled that Novartis provided adequate warning to
Bessemer’s physician of jaw problems from Aredia and Zometa.  “There is not anything in this record to show that
Novartis deliberately concealed anything,” Joe Hollingsworth, a
company attorney, said in his closing argument yesterday.  Bessemer’s suit was the second product-liability case to go
to trial over the bone-strengthening treatments, which had 2009
 sales  of $1.5 billion, according to Novartis’ annual report.
Both drugs are still on the market. Last year, a Montana jury
ordered Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis to pay  $3.2 million  in
damages to a woman who blamed the drug for damaging her jaw.  Bessemer, who testified at a trial that began Sept. 23,
said the drugs contributed to her condition, known as
osteonecrosis. She declined comment after the verdict. Her
attorney, Robert Germany, said he was disappointed with the
jury’s ruling.  Novartis, which has its  U.S. headquarters  in East Hanover,
New Jersey, faces about 550 lawsuits over the drugs,
consolidated before a federal judge in Tennessee. About 150 more
cases are in state court in New Brunswick, according to Germany.  The case is Bessemer v. Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp.,
MID-L-1835-08-MT, Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division,
Middlesex County (New Brunswick).  For more, click here.  Landry’s Lawsuits Are Settled, Company Is Sold  Landry’s Restaurants Inc.  Chief Executive Officer Tilman
Fertitta completed a $1.4 billion buyout of the company
yesterday after a judge approved a settlement of  lawsuits 
brought by investors.  Fertitta, Landry’s majority  shareholder , eventually offered
$24.50 a share. In one case, after negotiations, the takeover
price increased by $65 million, according to court papers. To
resolve a second case, investors will share in a $14.5 million
fund.  “This is a settlement that it’s a pleasure to review,”
Delaware Chancery Court Judge J. Travis Laster said yesterday at
a hearing in Wilmington. He awarded the shareholders’ lawyers
about $12.2 million in legal fees and expenses, calling the
amount “reasonable and well-earned.”  Although he wanted to buy the company “as cheap as
possible,” plaintiffs’ lawyer Stuart M. Grant told the judge,
“Fertitta is a key element to the success of this business.”  The company started in 1980 in Katy, Texas, and operates
restaurants including the Rainforest Café and Saltgrass brands
and Golden Nugget Hotel and Casino, according to its website.  The settlement fund, expected to come from insurance
proceeds, will be distributed to eligible shareholders who  file
claims , court papers show.  The consolidated case is Louisiana Municipal Police
Employees’ Retirement System v.  Tilman J. Fertitta , CA4339,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Father-Son Hotel Developers Convicted of Tax Crimes  A federal jury in Florida convicted a father and son of
hiding a $33 million hotel sale from U.S. tax authorities while
living a lavish lifestyle.  Mauricio Cohen Assor, 77, and Leon Cohen Levy, 46, were
convicted yesterday of conspiring to defraud the Internal
Revenue Service and filing false tax returns. The men, who built
hotels under the “ Flatotel ” brand, testified they were
innocent. Both men face as long as 11 years in prison.  Prosecutors said the Cohens used offshore companies,
friends and family posing as owners, and forged documents to
cheat the IRS. They said the Cohens should have declared income
from their use of mansions and luxury cars. Michael Pasano,
their defense lawyer, said prosecutors gave an “Alice in
Wonderland” case built on flawed theories and lying witnesses.  The case is U.S. v. Assor, 10-cr-60159, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Skadden Adds Lawyers in Asia as Disputes Increase  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP , the top-ranked
legal adviser on mergers and acquisitions, said it is moving two
lawyers to Hong Kong to deal with an increase in cross-border
disputes and regulatory probes.  Frances Kao, a partner, has moved from Chicago and Kam
Nijar, an associate, will move from London, bringing the New
York-based law firm’s Asian litigation and arbitration practice
to five lawyers, according to Paul Mitchard, who set up the team
last year.  A new U.S. law giving financial incentives to people who
reveal securities violations, or whistleblowers, may result in
more investigations involving Asian companies, said Kao, who has
advised U.S.-listed Chinese companies in securities and product-
liability lawsuits.  The U.K.’s  Bribery Act , which comes into effect in April,
will subject Asian companies doing business in the U.K. to the
country’s anti-corruption rules, said Mitchard.  Associate Calvin Chan will relocate from Hong Kong to be
Skadden’s first disputes lawyers based in Singapore.  Other American law firms building disputes teams in Asia
include Los Angeles-based  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP  and Kobre &
Kim LLP.  For the latest litigation department news,  click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 