-- AirTran's $39 Fare for $44 Reaps Fine as Obama Penalties Climb
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-10-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/airtran-s-39-fare-for-44-reaps-fine-as-punitive-obama-riles-carriers.html
AirTran Airways  paid a U.S. fine for
promoting $39 fares that cost $44.  Delta Air Lines  was penalized
for not disclosing fees in fare ads. Continental Airlines gave
money for underreporting complaints from disabled passengers.  That was in May alone. President  Barack Obama ’s
Transportation Department has almost doubled fines on the
aviation industry since taking office from the final two years
of  George W. Bush ’s presidency, federal data show.  The  administration  has faulted airline actions from bumping
passengers to flawed plane inspections. The growing fines weigh
on carriers working to contain costs after reporting their first
collective profit in 2 1/2 years in the second quarter,
according to  Kenneth Quinn , a former general counsel with the
Federal Aviation Administration.  “The pendulum has swung pretty hard,” said Quinn, a
partner with  Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP  in Washington.
“Multimillion-dollar fines can negate a good quarter.”  The  Transportation Department ’s aviation enforcement
office, which oversees advertising, passenger rights and
disclosure of data on carrier performance, has levied $4.77
million in penalties since Obama took office, an 84 percent jump
from $2.59 million in 2007-2008, according to department data.  Separately, the Federal Aviation Administration, the
department’s unit that regulates safety, proposed $77.4 million
in fines in the 12 months ended Sept. 30, Obama’s first full
fiscal year in office. That is up 66 percent from $46.7 million
Bush proposed for the year ended Sept. 30, 2008, FAA data shows.
Most cases involving FAA fines proposed under Obama are pending.  ‘Punitive Approach’  The Obama administration’s more confrontational approach
endangers a tradition of cooperative efforts by the government
and airlines to track down and fix safety defects, said  James May , president of the  Air Transport Association , a Washington
trade group for airlines.  “I’m concerned the foundation of the world’s best
aviation-safety record, built on a cooperative spirit, is being
replaced by an enforcement-oriented, punitive approach,” May
said in an interview.  Among the group’s members are  United Continental Holdings
Inc. ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. ,  AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines and
 Southwest Airlines Co.  All four carriers referred requests for
comment to the association.  The carriers’ complaints echo those of business leaders in
other industries who have said Obama is too aggressive on taxes
and regulation. “This administration has not been friendly to
business,”  Jack Welch , former chief executive officer of
 General Electric Co ., said Oct. 5 on Bloomberg Television.  Blizzard Sale  AirTran Holdings Inc. , based in Orlando, Florida, paid a
$20,000 fine in May after promoting one-way fares as low as $39
in a “Leave the Blizzard Behind Sale” news release. “The
lowest available fare for the sale was $44,” the Transportation
Department said in an order.  Atlanta-based  Delta  paid $40,000 for failing to display
taxes and fees for fares on its Web site, the department found.
Continental paid $100,000 for treating multiple complaints by
individuals with disabilities as a single grievance for
reporting purposes.  AirTran told the department a mistake was made in the
drafting of the “blizzard” press release. Delta said it
complied with rules by using an asterisk and link to spell out
taxes and fees. Continental, which has since become a unit of
Chicago-based United Continental, said it didn’t intend to code
complaints in a way that it later understood to be inconsistent
with guidance.  Consumer Rights  “We are definitely focused on the rights of consumers,”
Transportation Department General Counsel  Robert Rivkin  said in
an interview. “This is a specific set of issues that we just
feel really strongly about.”  Democrats complained of inaction under Bush. House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman  James Oberstar  of Minnesota faulted the FAA in 2008 for “a carrier-
favorable, cozy relationship” after his panel found Dallas-
based Southwest missed certain inspections of  Boeing Co.  737s.  Two federal reports in 2010 also found lax FAA maintenance
oversight in recent years at Fort Worth, Texas-based American
and at Northwest Airlines, now part of Delta.  Since Obama took office, agency figures show employment in
the Transportation Department’s aviation enforcement office rose
50 percent, to 45 people. FAA data show a 6 percent increase in
inspectors to 4,384 this year from Bush’s final year.  “This administration is simply doing its job,” said  Kevin Mitchell , chairman of the Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Business
Travel Coalition, a group of corporate travel managers. “The
days of stonewalling and too-cozy relationships are over.”  Record FAA Fine  The FAA proposed a record $24.2 million fine against
American in August for alleged maintenance flaws that grounded a
fleet of Boeing Co. MD-80s in 2008. American is appealing.  Southwest  is due to finish paying by Jan. 15 a $7.5 million
fine, the largest collected against a carrier, for the non-
inspections. Southwest’s first-quarter profit was $11 million.  While stepping up enforcement, the administration has
continued to collaborate with industry on safety. Programs such
as the Aviation Safety Action Program, which lets pilots report
flaws without fear of reprisal, have been credited by safety
proponents as helping to cut the accident rate.  Collaboration’s Limit  “This collaborative approach to safety, which is really
very valuable, has limits,”  Peter Goelz , a senior vice
president at O’Neill & Associates in Washington and a former
managing director of the National Transportation Safety Board,
said in an interview. “Egregious affronts need to be dealt with
from a regulatory viewpoint. The new administration has done the
right thing.”  Some punishments go too far, the airline trade association
said. United Continental’s United Airlines was fined $12,000 on
Sept. 21 for submitting inaccurate on-time data, which “wasted
valuable department resources,” according to an order. May, of
the Air Transport Association, said United thought it was
sending information “in the best spirit of the law.”  Mercy Flights Inc. , a nonprofit firm in Medford, Oregon,
that provides air ambulance services, was fined $30,000 in June
for saying on its website that it operates a helicopter, when it
actually contracts with another company for use of the aircraft.
The mistake was simply that the company referred to it as
“our” helicopter, said Representative  Greg Walden , an Oregon
Republican.  The penalty had nothing to do with safety and was
“complete bureaucratic overkill,” Walden said in an interview.
“The stupidity of the fine is baffling.”  Republicans will hold a hearing on the issue should they
gain control of the House in the November elections, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Larry Liebert at   or
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 