-- Alaska Air CEO Ayer Said to Face SEC Hedge-Fund Trading Probe
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-10-08T13:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/alaska-air-chief-hedge-fund-said-to-be-subjects-of-insider-trading-probe.html
Alaska  Air Group Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  William Ayer  and New York-based hedge fund  Donald Smith
& Co.  are subjects of a U.S. insider-trading inquiry into well-
timed bets on shares of Washington state’s biggest energy
utility, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating
whether the fund acted on confidential information in 2008 when
it doubled its stake in  Puget Energy Inc.  just before state
officials approved a $3.89 billion buyout that sent the
utility’s shares up as much as 21 percent, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the probe isn’t public.  The SEC is examining the role of Ayer, who was on Puget
Energy’s  board  during the buyout and is now its chairman, the
people said. Donald Smith & Co., which manages about $3.5
billion in assets, was  Alaska Air ’s largest investor in early
2008, filings show. Ayer is also chairman of the Seattle branch
of the  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco .  “I never provided any material non-public information
about Puget Energy to Donald Smith & Co., or anyone else,”
Ayer, 56, said in an e-mail in response to questions from
Bloomberg News.  Donald Smith & Co. “increased our position in Puget Energy
only after the stock collapsed to a valuation level that we
considered attractive based on our in-depth research,” the
company said in a statement. “We categorically state that at no
time did we have any communication with Mr. William Ayer
regarding Puget Energy.”  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment.  ‘Better Visibility’  SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a Sept. 25
interview that the agency has honed its approach to insider-
trading investigations to give it “better visibility into
relationships between people” connected to suspicious trades,
including board members, lawyers and accountants. He declined to
comment on any specific investigation.  Alaska Air fell 4.6 percent to $46.50 yesterday in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  “The Alaska Air Group board of directors has full
confidence in Bill and his high ethical standards,”  Marc Langland , the board’s lead independent director, said in a
statement yesterday.  Buyout Approval  Donald Smith & Co., founded in 1983 by  Donald G. Smith , who
is now chief investment officer, increased its holdings of Puget
Energy to almost 6 million shares that were valued at more than
$160 million after the leveraged buyout was approved at the end
of 2008. Other large investors, including Tradewinds Global
Investors LLC and American Century Cos., sold almost all of
their shares as state regulators questioned the deal and credit
dried up after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
SEC filings show.  Martha Monfried , director of corporate communications for
Puget Energy, declined to comment.  Lily Ruiz , a spokeswoman for
the San Francisco Fed, said the agency doesn’t comment on
directors’ outside business activities.  The people with knowledge of the investigation declined to
say whether the SEC has interviewed or sent subpoenas to Donald
Smith & Co. or Ayer as part of the probe. Donald Smith and Ayer
haven’t been accused of wrongdoing.  Ayer, who holds degrees in economics and business from
Stanford University and the University of Washington, has been
chairman of Alaska Air Group since May 2003, according to the
firm’s website. He joined the company in 1995 after founding Air
Olympia, a Washington state commuter airline.  AirTran Holdings  Donald Smith & Co. invests in stocks of out-of-favor
companies that are selling below tangible book value, according
to the firm’s website. As of June 30, the hedge fund held about
$3.3 billion in stocks, according to an SEC filing. Its holdings
included insurers, manufacturers and airlines. At the end of the
second quarter this year, it reported holding more than 7
million shares in  AirTran Holdings Inc. , whose stock rose more
than 60 percent when Southwest Airlines Co. announced it would
acquire the airline last month.  Puget Energy came into play in October 2007 when an
investor group led by  Macquarie Bank Ltd. , Australia’s largest
investment bank, said it would pay $30 a share to take the
Bellevue, Washington-based company private. Ayer was on Puget
Energy’s board at the time. Shares rose to as high as $28.60 on
the announcement after closing at $23.95 the previous day.  State Opposition  Two months after federal regulators approved the $3.89
billion deal, state officials fought to stop it. Washington
Utilities and Transportation Commission staff members said in a
June 2008 report that state regulators should reject the deal
because it also included $1.6 billion in new debt that could
force the utility to raise prices for consumers. The public
counsel section of the state’s attorney general’s office, which
advocates for consumers in utility rate cases, said the
transaction would expose power customers to too much financial
risk.  Shares tumbled by about 13 percent in June to $23.99, more
than $6 below the price offered by the buyout.  After Lehman filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, credit
markets contracted and borrowing costs soared, throwing mergers
into doubt. Wall Street’s confidence in the Puget Energy deal
continued to wane. On Oct. 28, the power company’s shares
dropped to as low as $19.03 in intraday trading, almost $11 less
than the investment group was offering.  American Century  Tradewinds Global Investors, one of the company’s biggest
investors at the start of 2008 with more than 8 million shares,
had dumped its stake by the end of that year. American Century
and Lord, Abbett & Co., both of which held more than 6.5 million
shares at the end of 2007, sold almost all of their Puget Energy
investments.  Donald Smith & Co., which had been investing in Puget
Energy since at least the first quarter of 2007, didn’t sell its
stake. Instead, the hedge fund increased its holdings to 5.9
million shares in the fourth quarter of 2008 from 2.4 million in
the previous three months, according to SEC filings.  Donald Smith had been cutting its stake in Alaska Air in
2008. The hedge fund held about 4 million shares at the end of
2007, when the airline’s stock traded at $25.01. Shares dropped
as low as $10.10 by July 2008 because of soaring fuel prices. At
the end of the year, Donald Smith held fewer than 600,000
shares.  Analysts were still questioning Puget Energy’s future in
December 2008, when credit-rating firm Standard and Poor’s said
regulatory support for the acquisition “continues to be a
decisive credit factor as Puget continues through a period of
high capital expenditure.”  Equity Stake  To be sure, some analysts predicted the deal would succeed,
saying the investor group had appeased its opponents by agreeing
to increase its equity stake and reduce the amount of new debt
needed to finance the deal to $1.45 billion from $1.6 billion.  On Dec. 30, 2008, the deal was  approved  by the state
utility board by a 2-to-1 vote. Puget Energy shares jumped as
much as 21 percent the following day.  Commissioners  Mark Sidran  and  Patrick Oshie , who approved
the deal, said in a statement it was “not a highly leveraged
buyout.” Commissioner Philip Jones opposed the deal, saying
further review was needed in light of “the reality of extremely
adverse financial conditions that exist today.”  When the deal was completed on Feb. 6, 2009, Ayer was named
chairman. At an earlier state hearing,  Christopher Leslie ,
speaking for the Macquarie-led investor consortium, said the
group chose Ayer because he’s based in the Northwest and would
ensure the utility “remains aligned with the region’s needs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 