-- Alcoa Profit May Drop 29% on Weak Dollar
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2010-10-07T12:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/alcoa-profit-may-drop-29-as-weak-dollar-offsets-aluminum-price.html
Alcoa Inc. , the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, may post a 29 percent drop in third-quarter profit
after a weaker dollar raised costs in Europe, Australia and
Brazil, offsetting an increase in the price of the metal.  Alcoa will today report earnings excluding some items of 5
cents a share, according to the average estimate of 16 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. The company posted a 7-cent profit a year
earlier.  Alcoa, led by Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld ,
sells metal for dollars and pays costs at foreign operations in
local currencies. The company’s largest single source of revenue
after the U.S. is Australia, whose local currency appreciated 14
percent against the U.S. dollar in the quarter. Alcoa is the
worst performer in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  this year,
falling 23 percent in New York trading.  “It would be difficult for Alcoa to present a very bullish
story on core commodity given what we know is happening
globally,”  Jorge Beristain , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
Greenwich, Connecticut, who rates the stock “hold,” said in a
telephone interview. The weaker dollar will be a “headwind” to
Alcoa’s earnings this quarter, he said.  Alcoa, traditionally the first company in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average to announce quarterly earnings, will report
after the market closes. The shares  rose  13 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $12.50 at 7:44 a.m. before the open of regular New
York Stock Exchange trading.  ‘Double-Edged Sword’  Alcoa smelts aluminum and refines alumina, a raw material
used to make the metal, in  Australia ,  Europe  and  Brazil . The
Australian dollar had the second-largest gain against the
greenback among a basket of 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The euro was third, strengthening 11 percent. The
Brazilian real climbed 7 percent.  Alcoa loses $75 million of annual net income for every 10
percent increase in the Australian dollar, Alcoa said in a July
presentation. It also said it loses $40 million for a 10 percent
increase in the euro and gains or loses $200 million for every
$100-a-metric-ton advance or drop in the aluminum price.  Currencies are “a double-edged sword,” said  Brian Yu , an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in San Francisco who has a “buy”
recommendation on Alcoa shares. “It increases costs for Alcoa,
but at the same time the weaker dollar tends to drive up
aluminum prices.”  Global Surplus  Aluminum for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange rose 0.5 percent to $2,377 a ton at 12:51 p.m. in
London. The metal averaged $2,110 in the third quarter compared
with $1,836 a year earlier. Aluminum is 30 percent below its
July 2008 peak of $3,380 a ton as inventories remain within 6.6
percent of their January record high.  Aluminum inventories piled up as global production exceeded
consumption. Excess output will increase to 1.22 million tons
this year, from 791,000 tons in 2009, RBC Capital Markets
analysts led by  H. Fraser Phillips  said in a Sept. 21 note.
Inventories monitored by the LME, the world’s largest metals
bourse, fell 0.1 percent to 4.34 million tons today.  “There’s just too darn much of it,” said  John Stephenson ,
who wrote “The Little Book of Commodity Investing” and helps
manage C$1.65 billion ($1.63 billion) at First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto.  “Until you start to see end-use demand pick up in a much
more significant way and you start to see inventories reduced on
the LME, it’s hard to see this moving in a major way,” he said.  Alcoa may see higher demand because some Chinese aluminum
smelters have been ordered to cut production to meet energy
usage requirements, said  Charles Bradford , a partner at
Affiliated Research Group LLC, a New York-based consulting firm.  Alcoa “cannot single-handedly change the commodity
price,” Beristain said. “What really can get the needle moving
for Alcoa would be a global change in aluminum, a global
overnight change in demand outlook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Marcinek  in New York 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  