-- Alcoa Says Chinese Auto Demand Driving Growth in Aluminum Use
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2010-10-08T20:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/alcoa-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-aluminum-demand-shares-advance.html
Alcoa Inc. , the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates and said
growing Chinese demand will help boost global use by 13 percent
this year.  Alcoa  advanced the most in three months in New York trading
a day after raising its prediction for aluminum consumption from
12 percent previously, citing higher demand also from Brazil,
Russia and India. The New York-based company posted third-
quarter earnings excluding certain items of 9 cents a share,
topping the 5-cent average estimate of 16 analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  “What did really jump out at me was the strength in
commercial transport,”  Anthony Rizzuto , a New York-based
analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. who rates Alcoa shares “hold,”
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “Prospects for the
company at least over the coming quarter should improve with
higher metal prices.”  Aluminum sales to makers of heavy trucks and trailers will
rise globally by as much as 40 percent this year, Chief
Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  said yesterday on a conference
call with investors. Aluminum sales to the automotive industry
are forecast to increase as much as 8 percent, with Chinese
sales up 15 percent to 20 percent.  Alcoa, the first company in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average to announce quarterly earnings, reported its profit
yesterday after the close of  regular U.S. trading . The shares
rose 69 cents, or 5.7 percent, to $12.89 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, their highest level in
five months.  Aluminum Prices  Aluminum for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange averaged 15 percent higher in the third quarter than a
year earlier while global  inventories  fell 3.3 percent. A weaker
dollar improved the affordability of commodities in countries
with stronger currencies, Rizzuto said.  “In countries such as China, Brazil, India and Russia,
more and more people are moving into the middle class, driving
demand,” Kleinfeld said in Alcoa’s earnings statement.  Increases in the aluminum price will be a “tailwind” for
Alcoa in the fourth quarter,  Brian Yu , a San Francisco-based
analyst for Citigroup Inc., said today in a note.  Net income  fell to $61 million, or 6 cents a share, from
$77 million, or 8 cents, a year earlier, Alcoa said in the
statement. Sales climbed 15 percent to $5.3 billion. The company
shipped 1.22 million tons of aluminum in the quarter, 0.6
percent less than a year earlier.  Currency Movements  The decline in profit was in part a result of a weaker
dollar, which increased costs at Alcoa’s foreign plants, the
company said.  Alcoa smelts aluminum and refines alumina, a raw material
used to make the metal, in  Australia ,  Europe  and  Brazil . The
Australian dollar climbed 15 percent against its U.S.
counterpart in the third quarter, the second-largest gain among
a basket of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The euro
was third, strengthening 11 percent, while the Brazilian real
climbed 7 percent.  The company loses $75 million of annual net income for
every 10 percent increase in the Australian dollar, the company
said in the presentation. It also loses $40 million for a 10
percent increase in the euro.  Alcoa may see higher demand for its metal because some
Chinese aluminum smelters have been ordered to cut production to
meet energy-usage requirements, said  Charles Bradford , a partner
at Affiliated Research Group LLC, a New York-based consulting
firm.  Aluminum prices on the LME averaged $2,110 a ton in the
third quarter compared with $1,836 a year earlier. Global
stockpiles monitored by the LME, the world’s largest metals
bourse, dropped 0.1 percent to 4.33 million tons today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Marcinek  in New York 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 