-- Halladay Throws No-Hitter as Phillies Beat Reds in NL Playoffs
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-10-07T06:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/halladay-throws-no-hitter-as-phillies-defeat-reds-4-0-in-nl-opening-game.html
Roy Halladay  extended Major League
Baseball’s year of the pitcher by throwing the second no-hitter
in postseason history.  Halladay celebrated his long-awaited playoff debut by
leading the Philadelphia Phillies to a 4-0 win yesterday against
the Cincinnati Reds on a day that also included dominant
pitching by  Cliff Lee  in a 5-1 defeat by the Texas Rangers of
the Tampa Bay Rays.  The New York Yankees were the only team to win with their
bats, using a two-run triple by  Curtis Granderson  and a
tiebreaking two-run homer by  Mark Teixeira  to rally for a 6-4
win at Minnesota on the opening day of the playoffs.  “Game-winning home runs, there’s nothing better,”
Teixeira said in a news conference. “Our rallying cry is never
to give up. With our lineup, you can be down five or six runs
and we can score seven or eight.”  The Yankees will send  Andy Pettitte  to the mound today as
they try to build a 2-0 lead against the Twins, who will start
former Yankee  Carl Pavano . The Rangers and Rays also play the
second game of their series today in Florida.  Philadelphia and Cincinnati have the second game of their
series tomorrow. The visiting Atlanta Braves and San Francisco
Giants open their National League series tonight.  Halladay, acquired by the Phillies during the offseason
after 12 years with the Toronto Blue Jays, allowed only a fifth-
inning walk at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia. He also had a
run-scoring single as the Phillies took a 1-0 lead in the best-
of-five NL Division Series.  Larsen’s Perfect Game  Halladay, 33, who pitched 346 major league games before
making his first playoff appearance, joined  Don Larsen  as the
only pitchers with postseason no-hitters. Larsen had a perfect
game in the 1956 World Series for the New York Yankees against
the Brooklyn Dodgers.  “It’s surreal,” Halladay said in a televised interview.
“I just wanted to pitch in the postseason. To be able to go out
and have a game like that, it’s a dream come true.”  Lee, who the Phillies traded away as part of a four-team
deal to acquire Halladay, improved his postseason record to 5-0
as the Rangers snapped a nine-game postseason losing streak.  Lee, who went 4-0 for the Phillies in last year’s playoffs,
struck out 10 batters in seven innings and Texas got home runs
from  Nelson Cruz  and  Bengie Molina  in taking a 1-0 lead in the
American League first-round series.  “I enjoy competition, period, whether it be regular
season, postseason, playing darts, shooting pool or whatever,”
Lee said in a news conference. “I like to compete and I hate to
lose.”  Liriano Falters  Francisco Liriano  was working from the same script for the
Twins, shutting out the Yankees on two hits through five innings
while Minnesota built a 3-0 lead against New York starter  CC Sabathia .  Then the Yankees erupted for four runs in the sixth on run-
scoring singles by  Robinson Cano  and  Jorge Posada  before
Granderson’s triple knocked Liriano out of the game.  The Twins tied the game in the bottom of the inning, only
to have Teixeira break the tie in the top of the seventh with a
home run off  Jesse Crain . Sabathia earned the win and  Mariano Rivera  got the final four outs for his record-extending 40th
postseason save.  “Game 1 is the most important no matter what,” Granderson
said in a news conference. “Any time you can go ahead and pick
the first game up in a series, hopefully you can keep that
momentum going into the next day.”  Halladay’s Perfect Game  Halladay had eight strikeouts against a Reds lineup that
led the NL this season in runs, batting average and home runs. A
two-out walk to  Jay Bruce  on a full count in the fifth inning
was the only thing that prevented a perfect game.  Halladay did throw a perfect game during the regular
season, winning 1-0 against the Florida Marlins in Miami on May
29. It was one of two perfect games this year, the first time
that had happened in a season since 1880.  Dallas Braden  of the Oakland Athletics had the other
perfect game, on May 9 against the Tampa Bay Rays, and there
were three other no-hitters this season -- by  Ubaldo Jimenez  of
the Colorado Rockies,  Edwin Jackson  of the Arizona Diamondbacks
and  Matt Garza  of the Rays.  Halladay is the first pitcher to throw two no-hitters in a
year since  Nolan Ryan  had two of his major league record seven
no-hitters two months apart in 1973.  His no-hitter yesterday was the latest highlight in what
has been dubbed the year of the pitcher. The earned run averages
in both leagues were the lowest since 1992, and home runs were
down to their lowest level in 17 years during the regular
season.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ; or
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at
   rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  