-- Allied Irish Prices M&T Stake Offering, Will Raise $2 Billion
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-10-07T09:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/allied-irish-prices-m-t-stake-offering-will-raise-2-billion.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc , the lender
being taken over by Ireland’s government, said it will raise
about $2 billion from the sale of its 22.4 percent stake in U.S.
lender  M&T Bank Corp.  to meet stricter capital requirements.  The Dublin-based bank will offer 26.7 million notes at
$77.50 apiece that will be exchanged for shares in M&T by Nov.
15, it said in a statement late yesterday. It plans to hold a
meeting of shareholders on Nov. 1 to seek their approval.  Ireland’s banks are raising capital after bad debts surged
amid the collapse of a decade-long real estate boom, prompting a
bailout of the industry that may cost as much as 50 billion
euros ($70 billion). The government said last week it would take
majority ownership of Allied Irish, which has been directed by
the nation’s financial regulator to raise 10.4 billion euros by
year-end to meet new capital standards.  Allied Irish  declined  5.6 percent to 42 cents in Dublin
trading as of 10:30 a.m., giving the company a market value of
459 million euros. The bank, which has declined 64 percent this
year, said the sale will generate about 900 million euros of
capital.  “The price achieved for AIB’s stake in its U.S. regional
bank is slightly disappointing when compared to previous
estimates,”  Ciaran Callaghan , an analyst at NCB Stockbrokers in
Dublin, said in a note to investors. “Focus is now likely to
turn to the sale of smaller below-the-radar” assets, he said.  Exchange Mandatory  Exchange of the notes, consisting of Allied Irish debt,
into Buffalo, New York-based M&T shares will be mandatory, the
bank said. The proposed disposal is expected to generate about
900 million euros of “equivalent equity capital,” it said.  Morgan Stanley and Citigroup Inc. are underwriters for the
notes offering.  Allied Irish said on Sept. 10 it will raise 2.5 billion
euros of capital from an agreement to sell its Polish unit Bank
Zachodni WBK SA. The Irish lender has also put its U.K. unit up
for sale.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said on Sept. 30 that the
bank will seek to raise 5.4 billion euros in a November stock
sale, and the government “is likely” to hold a majority stake.  “In the current stressed market conditions, the bank is
unlikely to be able to conduct a traditional privately
underwritten transaction,” he said in a statement that day.  The government is also injecting extra cash into the
previously nationalized Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  The cost of repairing the banking system is taking a toll
on Ireland’s finances and increasing borrowing costs. Fitch
Ratings lowered the country’s credit grade by one level
yesterday to A+, reflecting the “exceptional and greater-than-
expected cost” of the nation’s banking bailout.  The yield spread between Irish 10-year bonds and those of
Germany, Europe’s benchmark, widened to a record last month on
concern that Ireland would become the first nation after Greece
to tap the 750 billion-euro rescue fund set up in May by the
European Union and International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  