-- Angola Shifts Control of Economic Policy to Presidency, Eurasia Group Says
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s
-- 2010-10-07T07:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/angola-shifts-control-of-economic-policy-to-presidency-eurasia-group-says.html
President  Jose Eduardo dos Santos  of
Angola, Africa’s third largest crude producer, is shifting
economic policy control to his office to concentrate power and
improve policy coherence, Eurasia Group said.  The Economic Coordination Commission in the president’s
office, created on Oct. 5, will manage relations with the
International Monetary Fund, a proposed bond sale, and billions
of dollars in unpaid bills to overseas companies, New York-based
Eurasia Group wrote in a note yesterday.  “The move will likely improve economic policy coherence,”
wrote  Philippe de Pontet , Eurasia Group’s Africa director. It
will also “raise investor concerns about the concentration of
power within the president’s office.”  The southwest African country needs to repay $6.8 billion
in unpaid bills to Brazilian and Portuguese construction
companies and to maintain tight control over fiscal spending,
Eurasia said. The government also wants to set up a stock
exchange next year and start a sovereign wealth fund, while
maintaining currency stability.  “There is a concentration of power around the president,
no doubt about it,” Vicente Pinto de Andrade, an economics
professor at the Catholic University in Luanda, the capital,
said in an interview. “The architecture that is being given to
the government shows that.”  A spokesman for the government did not answer telephone
calls yesterday by Bloomberg News seeking comment.  No Policy Shift  Dos Santos , in power since 1979, removed many of the powers
of the economy ministry, headed by  Manuel Nunes Junior , and
created a new ministry without budget or monetary policy
authority, to be led by the former central bank Governor Abraao
Gourgel. It will instead focus on government-owned companies.  “The main purpose of the shuffle appears to have been to
weaken the powerful Ministry of Economy,” De Pontet said. “The
personnel changes do not signal big policy shifts but could
establish a more streamlined, top-down policymaking process.”  The changes resemble the downgrading of the finance
ministry in 2008 by Dos Santos,  Ricardo Soares de Oliveira , a
lecturer in African politics at Oxford University, said in an
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candido Mendes  in Luanda, Angola at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net ;
 Colin McClelland  in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 