-- Laos Forms Stock Exchange, Plans Trading in 2011 to Ease Raising of Funds
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2010-10-07T03:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/laos-forms-stock-exchange-plans-trading-in-2011-to-ease-raising-of-funds.html
Laos , the smallest economy in
Southeast Asia, is starting its first stock exchange to provide
local companies with an avenue to raise funds for expansion and
investment, the bourse’s chief said.  The stock exchange will start trading shares “some time”
in early 2011, Dethphouvang Moularat, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of the Lao Securities Exchange, said in a
telephone interview from Vientiane yesterday. The bourse will be
officially established this week, he said, declining to give the
specific date.  Landlocked Laos is seeking global investors to help pay for
infrastructure projects and create jobs for its 7 million
citizens, nearly half of whom are younger than 16.  Rio Tinto
Group  and  Electricite de France SA  are among companies that have
boosted investments in mines and power plants to tap into the
nation’s rivers and other natural resources.  “Having a capital market will greatly help domestic
companies raise expansion capital,” said  Douglas Clayton , Phnom
Penh-based chief executive officer of  Leopard Capital , which
manages about $34 million of assets in Cambodia. “It will also
stimulate the growth of a private equity industry because an IPO
can create an exciting exit route for such funds.”  Laos’ economy may expand 7.5 percent in 2011 from an
estimated 7.4 percent this year and a 5.5 percent pace in 2009,
boosted by electricity sales to Thailand and higher prices of
copper, gold and silver, the Asian Development Bank said in a
 report  on its website.  ‘Stepping Stone’  Rio, the world’s third-biggest mining company, and  Mitsui &
Co.  are jointly exploring bauxite and other minerals in Laos,
the two companies said in August. Electricite de France,
Europe’s biggest utility, and its partners operate a 1,070-
megawatt hydro power plant in Laos, the country’s largest.  “The stock market is the key stepping stone for the
country’s economic development,” said Dethphouvang. “The need
for new capital has increased significantly with expansion of
the economy and investments.”  Dethphouvang declined to say how many companies may be
listed when the exchange starts trading shares. In neighboring
Thailand, about 478 companies are publicly traded on the main
board of the nation’s bourse while Vietnam’s  Ho Chi Minh Stock
Exchange  has more than 260 listed stocks.  “The challenge is to educate retail investors about the
basic principles of company valuation so the exchange does not
start to resemble a casino,” Leopard Capital’s Clayton said.
“Most emerging markets have gone through a hyper-speculation
phase at one time or another, and the inevitable massive
correction can crush investor interest for a long time.”  Clayton said in August Leopard Capital plans to raise about
$50 million to invest in Cambodia and Laos. The company plans to
open a representative office by the end of this year in
Vientiane, the capital of communist-run Laos, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  