-- Apple, Motorola, Google, TiVo, Teva, MGA: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/apple-motorola-google-tivo-rambus-teva-mga-intellectual-property.html
A  Motorola Inc.  unit sued  Apple Inc. ,
alleging the maker of the iPad computer tablet and iPhone mobile
phone, is infringing six of its patents.  Motorola Mobility Inc., the mobile phone making unit of
Schaumburg,  Illinois-based Motorola Inc. , filed the  complaint 
yesterday. The company, based in Libertyville, Illinois, alleges
that Apple’s iPhone, iPad and MacBook computers infringe patents
for a method for distributing message traffic, among others.  “Apple’s infringing activities have caused and will
continue to cause Motorola irreparable harm,” unless the court
issues an injunction, according to a complaint in federal court
in Chicago.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment.  Motorola may spin off that phone and television set-top box
business as soon as the first quarter of next year, co-Chief
Executive Officer Sanjay K. Jha said Oct. 5 at an event in San
Francisco. The company’s two-way radio and bar code units will
be called Motorola Solutions.  Jha’s comments came as Motorola unveiled six new
smartphones including a version of its Droid handset for
business users. The company is rebuilding its handset business
around  Google Inc. ’s Android software, capitalizing on surging
demand for devices utilizing the software.  While Cupertino, California-based Apple derived more than
$13 billion in sales from its iPhones last year, Google’s
Android software has become the most popular operating system in
the U.S. among new smartphone buyers in the past six months,
passing the iPhone and Research in Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry
platforms, according to Nielsen Co.  Motorola accused Apple of infringing six patents in a
second case in Chicago. The third case, also involving six
patents, was filed in federal court in Miami.  Motorola also filed a complaint with the  International
Trade Commission  accusing Apple of infringing 18 patents. The
company asked the commission to launch an investigation with the
ultimate goal of blocking Apple from importing infringing
products to the U.S. and halting their advertising, marketing
and distribution.  The case is Motorola Mobility Inc. v Apple Inc., 10-cv-
6381, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  Teva Can Challenge Eisai Aricept Patents, Court Says  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. , the biggest generic-
drug maker, can challenge patents on Eisai Co.’s Alzheimer’s
treatment Aricept, a U.S. appeals court ruled.  The decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit in Washington yesterday overturns a trial judge’s
decision to throw out Teva’s challenge and gives the company a
shot at beating  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.  to the market with a
generic version of the drug.  Ranbaxy, majority owned by Japanese drugmaker Daiichi
Sankyo Co., has the right to be the first to sell copies of the
drug in the U.S., and it may enter the market as early as
November, when a patent on Aricept’s active ingredient expires.
Petah Tikva, Israel-based Teva was told last month it can’t
begin sales until Ranbaxy’s 180-day exclusivity period ends.  The legal challenge to four other Aricept patents is an
 effort  to have the six-month period begin before Ranbaxy enters
the market. Under federal law, the exclusivity period starts
when the generic-drug maker begins sales or when a court rules
against patents, whichever comes first.  The dispute would be moot if Ranbaxy gets approval in
November. The Gurgaon, India-based company has been dealing with
manufacturing processes at two of its plants and the U.S. Food &
Drug Administration has been limiting imports and approvals of
some drugs made there.  A trial judge threw out Teva’s challenge to the four
patents, saying there was no legal controversy because Eisai
never planned to use those patents to block generic competition.  The Federal Circuit said Teva’s actions were appropriate
and that a generic-drug maker has a legal “interest in when the
first-filer’s exclusivity period begins.”  Courts have ruled in most cases that it is the brand-drug
company that decides which patents to litigate under the complex
federal drug law. The ruling yesterday may enable other generic-
drug makers to file challenges to patents on brand medicines.  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Teva, said the company
had no comment. Officials with Ranbaxy didn’t immediately return
messages seeking comment.  The case is Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. v. Eisai Co.,
2009-1593, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  TiVo Says Time Warp Patent Upheld by U.S. Agency  TiVo Inc.  said the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
reaffirmed the validity of a patent for the Time Warp digital
video-recording technology that’s at the center of a dispute
with  Dish Network Corp.  and  EchoStar Corp.   TiVo rose as much as 22 percent in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading after the Alviso, California-based company issued a
statement on the ruling yesterday. The agency’s decision, which
can’t be appealed, eliminates one of the ways Dish and EchoStar
were trying to avoid a patent-infringement verdict.  The patent office review is a parallel proceeding to TiVo’s
legal case over a 2004 lawsuit it won against Englewood,
Colorado-based Dish and EchoStar. A U.S. appeals court is
scheduled to hear arguments Nov. 9 on whether Dish was entitled
to a new trial to determine if an altered version of its digital
video-recorder technology still infringed the patent.  Francie Bauer, a spokeswoman for Dish, said the company had
no immediate comment.  The appeal is TiVo v. EchoStar, 2009-1374, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower-court
case is TiVo Inc. v. EchoStar Communications Corp., 04-cv-01,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  Rambus Defends Document Policy in Hynix, Micron Appeal Redux  Rambus Inc.  told an appeals court that its policy for
destroying documents shouldn’t be held against the company as it
pursues patent royalties from  Hynix Semiconductor Inc.  and
 Micron Technology Inc.   The policy is standard practice to reduce stored paper,
Rambus said in arguments yesterday before a five-judge panel in
Washington that is rehearing two appeals of rulings that may
determine whether the company can enforce its patent rights.
Rambus denied allegations it tried to hide information that
could be used by companies to defend against patent-infringement
claims.  Rambus, a designer of high-speed memory chips, received 96
percent of its  $113 million  in 2009 revenue from patent
royalties, and it’s counting on a victory on the document-
destruction issue to expand its licensing program. Questions
about the policy have led to varying rulings among trial judges
who were split on whether Rambus acted in good faith.  Ruling the patents unenforceable would be the “death
penalty,” Carter Phillips a lawyer at Sidley Austin LLP in
Washington, said yesterday in arguing on behalf of Rambus in the
Micron case. A decision on the document-retention policy “is
going to have an enormous impact on any company that has
intellectual property rights,” he said.  A ruling in Rambus’s favor would create a safe haven for
patent holders who destroy evidence, said a Micron lawyer, Matt
Powers of the Redwood Shores, California, office of  Weil Gotshal
& Manges LLP .  The arguments before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit were almost identical to ones made before a
panel in April. The case had to be reargued because one of the
three circuit judges retired and another had a conflict with the
case.  Two appeals were heard. A judge in the Micron case ruled 12
Rambus patents unenforceable as punishment for document
destruction. In the second case, Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix
is appealing a ruling in which the judge rejected similar
arguments and allowed a trial to proceed that resulted in a $397
million judgment in Rambus’s favor. Hynix is challenging the
jury verdict that upheld the patents and found infringement.  A key issue in both appeals is when Los Altos, California-
based Rambus had to begin preserving documents that it might be
required to give its opponents in litigation and the legal
standard for determining that date. The Micron judge said it was
in 1998, when litigation could be “reasonably foreseen,” while
the Hynix judge looked to the probability that lawsuits would be
filed in late 1999.  There were 3 million pages of documents that were
destroyed, said a Hynix lawyer, Sri Srinivasan of  O’Melveny &
Myers LLP ’s Washington office.  “It’s unfair to the party that didn’t destroy the
documents,” Srinivasan said. “There’s no record of what were
the contents of those 3 million documents.”  The arguments before the Federal Circuit mark the first
time the issue of document destruction has been put directly
before the court, which specializes in patent law. Questioning
by the five judges centered on when Rambus had an obligation to
preserve documents, and the legal standard to determine whether
a company acted in bad faith in a way that prejudiced the
defense against infringement claims.  The appeals are Micron Technology v. Rambus, 2009-1263, and
Hynix Semiconductor v. Rambus, 2009-1299, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower-court cases are
Micron Technology Inc. v. Rambus Inc., 00-cv-00792, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington) and Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. v. Rambus Inc., 00-cv-20905, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Copyright Accord Scaled Back After Google-Led Push  A counterfeiting agreement aimed at stepping up
international enforcement of copyright protections has been
scaled back after objections from Internet content providers led
by  Google Inc .  The text of the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, which
would set joint rules for cracking down on the pirating of
copyrighted materials, was released yesterday by the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office. The deal would be the first major trade
accord reached under President Barack Obama.  The European Union, the U.S. and nine nations are making
the text of the accord public as they seek to resolve a few
remaining issues. They must each then decide whether to sign the
deal that was first proposed in 2007. The accord wouldn’t
require congressional approval.  “This work represents a significant victory for those who
care about protecting and enforcing intellectual property
rights,” U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said in a
statement.  Technology companies such as Google, operator of the
world’s most popular search engine, protested that initial U.S.
proposals would have imposed copyright protections without the
exceptions in U.S. law. The U.S. had proposed forcing
governments that signed the deal to crack down on Internet
service providers for distributing pirated movies or music. That
was among requirements dropped from the 24-page text released
yesterday.  “The U.S. capitulated,” Michael Geist, a law professor at
the University of Ottawa who has been following the
negotiations, said in an interview. “The U.S. has steadily
caved on issue after issue.”  The movie and recording industries, the leading supporters
of the treaty, described the proposed deal as an imperfect step
forward.  “It doesn’t answer all the questions, but it provides a
blueprint,” Neil Turkewitz, executive vice president of the
Recording Industry Association of America, said in an interview.
“The digital text is bare-bones because governments believe we
are at time when you shouldn’t get locked into a static
solution.”  Mistique Cano, a spokeswoman for Mountain View, California-
based Google, didn’t return telephone and e-mail messages
seeking comment.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Taylor Swift Wins Trademark Case Over Counterfeit Merchandise  Taylor Swift won a trademark suit in Tennessee against 16
people she claimed sold counterfeit merchandise bearing her name
and picture, the Associated Press reported.  A federal judge in Nashville granted a default judgment
last week barring the defendants from making or selling Taylor
Swift merchandise, AP said, citing court documents.  Swift claimed in the May 2009 suit that her merchandise
enforcement team found numerous individuals selling fake goods
across the country during her 2009 tour, including T-shirts
bearing her image, AP said.  David Crow, a partner at Milom Joyce Horsnell Crow in
Nashville, who represented Swift, declined to comment. Court
records didn’t list any lawyers representing those accused of
the counterfeiting, AP said.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 