-- Arab League to Renew Demand for Israeli Settlement Freeze, Moussa Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-10-07T16:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/arab-league-to-renew-demand-for-israel-settlement-freeze-moussa-says.html
Arab foreign ministers will tomorrow
renew their demand for a freeze on Israeli settlement
construction as a precondition for “serious” peace talks with
the Palestinians, Arab League chief  Amre Moussa  said today.  “If settlement construction continues, all the talk about
a Palestinian state becomes meaningless,” he said in a
telephone interview from Libya, where the meeting will be held.
“We will reaffirm the Arab position.”  The Palestinians have threatened to pull out of U.S.-
brokered peace talks if Israel continues to build in West Bank
settlements. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said on
Oct. 4 that he was in “sensitive diplomatic contacts” with the
U.S. administration to find a solution to the crisis that would
let the talks continue. A 10-month partial Israeli halt of
building in settlements expired Sept. 26.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  remains
adamant that talks can’t be held while settlement construction
continues, Moussa said. “This is everybody’s position,” he
said. “We’re not against negotiations but we’re not just doing
it for show.”  Abbas will brief ministers in the town of Sirte, Libya
tomorrow. The group will include representatives from Qatar,
Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon.  Netanyahu will bring a proposal to his Cabinet on Sunday to
change the citizenship oath to include swearing allegiance to
Israel as a Jewish, democratic state, an Israeli official said
yesterday. The oath will only apply to non-Jews seeking
citizenship.  Loyalty Oath  Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman , who leads Yisrael
Beitenu, the second-biggest party in Netanyahu’s coalition, has
called for a loyalty oath to the state. Lieberman, who lives in
a West Bank settlement, has said he has the political clout to
block a renewal of the freeze.  The change was aimed at easing Lieberman’s opposition to
the settlement freeze,  Uri Dromi , government spokesman under the
late Prime Minister  Yitzhak Rabin , said.  “It is tactically good for Netanyahu to keep Lieberman in
the coalition and therefore, in a cynical way, this thing, which
is a major issue on a constitutional level and should have been
discussed in the most serious way is now rushed to the table to
serve a political emergency,” Dromi said.  Lieberman said Netanyahu’s proposal should be
“applauded.” He said stressing the Jewish and democratic
nature of Israel was “essential” in light of incidents such as
the participation of an Israeli Arab parliament member in a Gaza
Strip-bound aid flotilla that attempted to breach an Israeli
embargo on the Hamas-controlled territory. Parliament’s House
Committee has recommended lifting the lawmaker’s immunity
rights.  Eyal Gabbay, director general of Netanyahu’s office, denied
any connection between the peace talks and the change in the
oath in an interview on Army Radio. “There is no connection
between the issues,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 