-- Mario Vargas Llosa of Peru Wins 2010 Nobel Literature Prize, Academy Says
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-10-07T11:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/mario-vargas-llosa-of-peru-wins-2010-nobel-literature-prize-academy-says.html
Mario Vargas Llosa , a Peruvian writer
and literary critic whose work has explored the political
corruption and military dictatorships of South America, won the
2010 Nobel Prize in Literature.  Vargas Llosa, 74, was chosen “for his cartography of
structures of power and his trenchant images of the individual’s
resistance, revolt and defeat,” the Swedish Academy said today
in a statement published on its  website . The novelist ran for
president of Peru in 1990 and lost to  Alberto Fujimori .  After graduating from Colegio Nacional San Miguel in Piura,
Peru, Vargas Llosa studied literature and law in London and
Madrid, taught languages in Paris and worked as a journalist for
Agence France Presse.  His literary breakthrough came with the 1963 publication of
“The Time of the Hero” (La ciudad y los perros), which drew
from his experiences at military school and was burnt publicly
by officers in Peru’s military, the Academy said.  Last year’s Nobel literature prize went to Romanian-born
novelist  Herta Mueller , who escaped  Nicolae Ceausescu ’s police
state two years before the Berlin Wall fell and has become one
of reunified Germany’s best-known writers. Winners in the last
decade have included Turkish author  Orhan Pamuk  in 2006 and  John M. Coetzee  of South Africa in 2003.  The 10 million-krona ($1.5 million) Nobel literature prize
was created in the will of  Alfred Nobel  and first awarded in
1901. Nobel, a Swede who invented dynamite, also set up awards
for achievements in medicine, physics, chemistry and peace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net  