-- Marks & Spencer Second-Quarter Sales Rise 5.3% on Clothing
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-10-07T15:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/marks-spencer-sales-beat-estimates-as-share-of-clothing-market-increases.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc , the U.K.’s
largest clothing retailer, reported second-quarter sales growth
that beat analysts’ estimates as the company won market share in
clothing after spending more on its autumn advertising campaign.  Sales at U.K. stores open at least a year rose 5.3 percent
in the 13 weeks ended Oct. 2, the London-based company said
today. That compared with the 3.6 percent median estimate of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, which was the rate of growth the
retailer reported for the previous quarter.  Marks & Spencer gained the most in 11 months in London
trading. Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  said sales of
men’s suits and cashmere sweaters rose as the retailer’s older
customers sought better-quality items. The retailer maintained
its target for gross margins to be unchanged this year as
marketing costs, which include the new advertising campaign
featuring Brazilian supermodel Ana Beatriz Barros, reach the top
end of the 4 percent to 5 percent range.  “General merchandise growth is much stronger than expected
and there has been also a pick-up in food,”  Katharine Wynne , an
analyst at Investec Securities said in a research report.
“Upgrades will be tempered by the guidance on increased cost
growth.” Wynne has a “hold” rating on the  stock .  Marks & Spencer  shares  rose 19.2 pence, or 4.9 percent, to
410 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, the steepest gain
since Nov. 18, 2009 and the highest closing price since Jan. 4.  ‘Returning to Quality’  The company won market share across all parts of the
business, said Bolland, who is due to announce a strategy review
next month after joining the company in May. The campaign drew
1.8 million extra customers, the CEO said.  Sales are benefiting from extensions to its clothing range
with 50 percent more winter boots and dresses on offer. The
company sold 3 million of its “Dine In” food promotions in the
last five weeks, the executive said on a call with journalists.  “We have had a lot more extra footfall and they came in
and found what they want because they saw stronger fashions for
general merchandise, greater choice and greater value,” Bolland
said. “Customers are returning to quality.”  Trading conditions are likely to become “more
challenging,” the company said, as commodity costs rise and
consumer incomes are hit by increased value-added tax rates. The
company is “cautious” about the outlook for the remainder of
this year and next, it said.  Same-store sales of food climbed 3.7 percent, compared with
the 3 percent median estimate of the analysts surveyed. General
merchandise sales, mainly comprising clothing, rose 7 percent on
that basis, compared with the 4 percent median estimate.  Robert Swannell , who helped defend Marks & Spencer Group
Plc against billionaire  Philip Green ’s takeover bid six years
ago, is due to replace  Stuart Rose  as chairman of the retailer
on Jan. 4. Rose has joined private equity firm Bridgepoint
Capital Ltd. to advise on retail investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 