-- Marriott Returns to Third-Quarter Profit as U.S. Business Travel Recovers
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-10-07T20:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/marriott-returns-to-third-quarter-profit-as-business-travel-demand-rises.html
Marriott International Inc. , owner of
the JW Marriott and Ritz-Carlton brands, posted a third-quarter
profit as a pickup in business and leisure travel allowed the
hotelier to increase room rates.  Net income for the quarter ended Sept. 10 was $83 million,
or 22 cents a share, compared with a loss of $466 million, or
$1.31, a year earlier, the Bethesda, Maryland-based company said
yesterday in a statement. The 2009 figure included $752 million
in pretax costs from its timeshare business.  A rebound in travel demand is helping the U.S. lodging
industry recover after last year’s recession sent occupancies to
a 30-year low. Hotel occupancies in the top 25 U.S. markets
climbed to 65 percent this year through August from 61 percent a
year earlier, according to  Smith Travel Research Inc.  of
Hendersonville, Tennessee.  “Many seem to wonder if the economic recovery has any
strength and if there is a risk of a double dip,”  Arne Sorenson , Marriott’s president and chief operating officer, said
today in a call with analysts and investors. “There’s nothing
in our business that indicates this. Business and leisure travel
is strong. The recovery in our business is broad.”  Third-quarter revenue climbed 7.2 percent to $2.65 billion.
Average daily room rates rose almost 2 percent in North America,
Marriott said. Revenue per available room, or revpar, rose 7.2
percent for company-operated properties in North America.
Outside North America, revpar gained 12 percent.  Estimate Missed  Earnings, announced yesterday after the close of regular
U.S. trading, were below the 23-cent average estimate of 14
analysts in a  Bloomberg survey . Marriott fell $2.19, or 5.8
percent, to $35.67 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. It was the biggest drop in four months.  “Investors were expecting a slight earnings-per-share beat
for the third quarter, a raise for the fourth quarter, and as a
consequence, shares sold off,”  Joseph Greff , an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a note today.  Marriott expects earnings per share for the fourth quarter
of 33 cents to 36 cents. That is below the 37-cent average
estimate from analysts. For the full year, Marriott forecasts a
profit of $1.09 to $1.12 per share, also lower than the $1.13
average analyst estimate.  Marriott, the largest U.S. hotel chain, expects revpar to
increase 6 percent to 8 percent next year, before adjustment for
currency-exchange rates, both in North America and worldwide.
The company plans to open 30,000 rooms this year and 25,000 to
30,000 in 2011.  Standard & Poor’s last week raised its ratings on Marriott
corporate credit and senior unsecured debt to BBB from BBB- with
a “stable” outlook. The hotelier is benefiting from an
“improving global lodging environment,” S&P said.  Marriott is the first major U.S. lodging company to report
quarterly earnings.  Wyndham Worldwide Corp.  plans to release its
results on Oct. 26, and  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. , the owner of the St. Regis and W hotel brands, is
scheduled to report on Oct. 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 