-- Marseille Oil-Port Strike Strands Vessels, Threatens Refinery Operations
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-07T10:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/marseille-oil-port-strike-strands-vessels-hobbles-refineries.html
An 11-day-old strike at the French
port of Marseille’s oil terminals stranded 51 vessels and
threatened to shut down refinery operations.  The industrial action will last “at least” until tomorrow,
 Pascal Galeote , a CGT union port-worker representative, said
today by telephone from Marseille.  Ships that can’t dock at the Fos oil terminal include 13
tankers carrying crude, 15 with refined oil products, three bulk
chemical carriers and nine gas vessels and three barges,
according to a statement from the port authority. Eight vessels
including five crude carriers, one bulk chemicals carrier and
two gas vessels are waiting outside Marseille harbor.  Total SA plans to halt the crude distillation unit at its
Provence refinery near Marseille on Oct. 10 because of crude
shortages, according to  Charles Foulard , another CGT
representative. The company may be forced to halt some refining
operations at the end of the week, said  Michael Crochet-Vourey ,
a spokesman for Total.  Refineries dependent on crude imports from the port may be
forced to start halting operations from Oct. 11,  Jean-Louis Schilansky , head of refiners’ organization Union Francaise des
Industries Petrolieres, said in a telephone interview this week.
Exxon Mobil Corp., Ineos Group Holdings Plc, Total and
LyondellBasell Industries NV have plants in the region that
account for 31 percent of French refining capacity.  Demonstrations  Workers at the Ineos refinery took part in demonstrations
at an oil depot at the port today though they aren’t on strike,
Marc Sarde, a CGT representative, said by telephone.  Workers at the oil hub are protesting a law on French port
operations as well as plans by the government to increase the
retirement age. The port has said “all guarantees” have been
given for the strike to end.  The cost of shipping crude oil across the Mediterranean Sea
to refineries in southern Europe had its biggest two-day
increase since November 2008, according to data from the London-
based Baltic Exchange. Freight rates climbed 59 percent in the
past two sessions to 137 Worldscale points, according to the
bourse.  Six refineries in France and one in Switzerland are
operating at “minimal rates” to save crude stockpiles and
avoid having to stop operations entirely, UFIP has said.  The refineries dependent on crude from the southern French
port are  Total’s  La Mede and Feyzin refineries as well as Exxon
Mobil’s Fos sur Mer, LyondellBasell’s Berre, Ineos’s Lavera,
Petroplus Holdings AG’s Reichstett and the Cressier refinery in
Switzerland, according to UFIP.  The Marseille docks have been affected by stoppages in
recent years as unions resisted efforts to move jobs to the 
private sector.  A 12-day strike at the oil hub in December 2008 cost
refineries 26 million euros ($36 million), including 15 million
euros related to vessel delays and 11 million euros in lost
revenue, UFIP estimated at the time. A strike at the oil
terminals in March 2007 lasted 17 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  