-- Feldstein Predicts Dollar to Weaken, Boosting Exports
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-07T17:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/harvard-s-feldstein-sees-dollar-weakening-boosting-exports-of-u-s-goods.html
Martin Feldstein , a Harvard
University professor who was chief economic adviser to President
 Ronald Reagan , predicted the dollar will weaken, boosting
exports and strengthening the U.S. economy.  “Dollar weakness will be one of the few things that will
improve our trade balance, and that will strengthen our
exports,” Feldstein said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “It will cause
Americans to shift from imported goods into domestic services.
All of that will strengthen the economy.”  Fund managers with large pools of dollars were converting
the currency into euros before “all hell broke loose” during
the European debt crisis, Feldstein said. As they resume trading
dollars for euros, and the U.S. trade deficit remains high, the
dollar will depreciate, he said.  The dollar dropped to a 15-year low against the yen and
touched the weakest level in more than eight months against the
euro amid signs the Federal Reserve will ease monetary policy to
sustain the U.S. recovery.  The dollar fell 0.6 percent to 82.43 yen as of 1:47 p.m. in
New York after falling as much as 82.11 yen. Yesterday, the
Japanese currency reversed all the decline since the Asian
nation’s intervention in foreign-exchange markets last month.  Feldstein, a member of President  Barack Obama ’s Economic
Recovery Advisory Board, told Obama on Oct. 4 that extending
income tax cuts for two years would stimulate demand and boost
the recovery. He is a former president of the National Bureau of
Economic Research and a member of the NBER committee that last
month declared the worst U.S. recession since the Great
Depression ended in June 2009.  “Just Doesn’t Like Business”  “The president has given the impression that he just
doesn’t like business,” Feldstein said today. “That’s not his
constituency. He doesn’t like high-income individuals, and he
makes that very clear.”  Obama wants to extend the tax cuts passed under President
George W. Bush for American households earning less than
$250,000 and individuals earning up to $200,000. The cuts would
be allowed to lapse on Dec. 31 for those earning more.  Feldstein said the “economy is too weak to raise taxes.”
After two years of continued tax breaks, the policy makers can
assess the economy with “a clean slate” and decide what to do
from there, he said.  Tax policy, new financial regulation and costs of health-
care reform are stilting investment by companies and
individuals, Feldstein said.  Budget Deficit  Failure to get the budget deficit under control will also
hamper investment, Feldstein said. The White House Office of
Management and Budget in July projected the deficit for fiscal
2010, which ended Sept. 30, at $1.47 trillion and the gap for
fiscal 2011 at $1.42 trillion. President Barack Obama formed a
commission in February charged with presenting a plan by Dec. 1
on how to reduce deficits over the next decade.  “You can only invest what you save or what you get from
the rest of the world, and we have been living on funds from the
rest of the world,” Feldstein said. “At some point, that line
of credit is going to run out.”  The U.S. needs to “build up our savings here so that we
can finance our own investment,” he said. “If we don’t do
that, the capital stock doesn’t keep up with the growing labor
force.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  