-- Asian Currencies Rise to 2-Year High on Optimism Easing Will Spur Inflows
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-10-07T09:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/asian-currencies-are-near-2-year-high-on-optimism-easing-will-spur-inflows.html
Asian currencies rose to the highest
levels in more than two years on speculation the Federal Reserve
will buy back bonds to spur growth, increasing the dollars
available that can be invested in higher-yielding assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index traded at 115.21
as of 5:05 p.m. in Hong Kong and earlier reached 115.46, a level
it last touched in April 2008. Thailand’s baht climbed to a 13-
year high of 29.84 versus the U.S. currency and South Korea’s
won strengthened 0.3 percent to 1,114.65.  “Speculation about quantitative easing by the Fed supports
stocks and the view that more money will flow into emerging Asia,
boosting regional currencies,” said  Minori Uchida , senior
analyst in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “Asia
benefits the most because of its strong growth outlook.”  Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.4 percent in 2010,
compared with growth of 2.7 percent in advanced countries, the
International Monetary Fund forecast yesterday in its World
Economic Outlook Update. Overseas investors bought $36 billion
more stocks in India, South Korea and Taiwan than they sold this
year, according to exchange data.  South Korea’s won rose to a five-month high as funds based
abroad bought more Korean shares than they sold every day in the
past 17 days, taking net purchases for the year to $13 billion.  ‘Strengthening Trend’  The Dollar  Index  traded on ICE Futures in New York, which
compares the U.S. currency to those of six trading partners,
fell to its lowest level since January before reports from the
Labor Department today and tomorrow that economists forecast
will show an increase in initial jobless claims and the
unemployment rate. The IMF yesterday also lowered its estimate
for U.S. growth this year to 2.6 percent from the 3.3 percent
projected in July.  “The strengthening trend in Asian currencies is unlikely
to change as developed countries are likely to continue
quantitative easing,” said  Yun Se Min , a Seoul-based currency
trader at Busan Bank.  Thailand’s currency yesterday breached 30 against the
dollar for the first time since 1997, the year its devaluation
triggered the Asian financial crisis. The baht has advanced more
than 11 percent versus the greenback this year as global funds
pumped a net $1.5 billion into local equities to benefit from
the fastest economic growth in 15 years.  Thailand may do more to relax limits on money outflows and
boost support for exporters most affected by the strengthening
currency, while monitoring “excessive speculation,” Prime
Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva said yesterday in an interview with
Bloomberg in New York.  Capital Outflows  The  Bank of Thailand  on Oct. 5 issued details on
deregulating currency transactions to enable local businesses to
more effectively manage foreign-exchange risk.  “Some measures we can adopt and we have adopted and might
do more, such as more facilitation of outflows of capital,”
Abhisit said.  Elsewhere, the Malaysian ringgit rose 0.1 percent to 3.0915
per dollar, the Philippine peso climbed 0.5 percent to 43.305,
Taiwan’s dollar was 0.3 percent higher at NT$31.042 and
Singapore’s currency advanced 0.4 percent to S$1.3056. The
Indonesian rupiah was unchanged at 8,923.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 