-- Stocks, Gold Drop as Dollar Rebounds Following Jobless Claims
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2010-10-07T20:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/asian-stocks-rise-for-fifth-day-on-pickup-in-australia-jobs-copper-gains.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lower for a second day, while the
dollar erased losses and gold slid from a record as a drop in
jobless claims caused investors to question whether the Federal
Reserve will pursue further economic stimulus measures.  The  S&P 500  decreased 0.2 percent to 1,158.06 at 4 p.m. in
New York. The Dollar Index, which gauges the U.S. currency
against six major peers, advanced 0.1 percent after slumping as
much as 0.6 percent to an almost nine-month low. Gold futures
slipped the most since July, losing 0.9 percent to $1,335 an
ounce after earlier rallying to as high as $1,366. Oil sank 1.9
percent from a five-month high to $81.67 a barrel.  U.S. jobless claims fell last week to the lowest in three
months, the Labor Department said, tempering concern that the
labor market is deteriorating a day before government data
forecast to show the unemployment rate rose last month. The jobs
data may influence the Fed’s decision about undertaking another
round of debt purchases, a tactic known as quantitative easing.  “The market’s looking for a Fed sign of a second round of
quantitative easing,” said  Bruce Bittles , chief investment
strategist at Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird & Co., which
oversees more than $85 billion. “Stronger economic reports
suggest the Fed may be less aggressive and hold back in the face
of an improving economy. Negative reports would promote that
idea.”  ‘Legitimate Debate’  For $2 trillion, the Fed may buy little improvement in
growth, employment or inflation over the next two years. Firms
with large-scale models of the U.S. economy such as IHS Global
Insight, Moody’s Analytics Inc. and Macroeconomic Advisers LLC
project only a moderate impact from additional Fed asset
purchases. The firms estimate that the unemployment rate will
remain around 9 percent or higher next year whether the Fed buys
$500 billion or $2 trillion of U.S. Treasuries.  Fed Bank of Dallas President Richard Fisher repeated doubts
that more monetary easing will spur employment and said policy
makers haven’t settled a debate over whether to take new steps.  “There is a great deal of legitimate debate still to take
place within the FOMC on the subject of quantitative easing, and
the pros and cons and costs and benefits of further monetary
accommodation,” Fisher said in the text of a speech today in
Minneapolis, referring to the policy-setting Federal Open Market
Committee.  The S&P 500, which climbed to the highest level since May
on Oct. 5, added to yesterday’s 0.1 percent decline. Food and
beverage and energy shares were the biggest drag on the index,
with PepsiCo Inc. and Chevron Corp. pacing losses. Adobe Systems
Inc. surged 12 percent, leading technology shares higher, after
the New York Times reported that Microsoft Corp. Chief Executive
Officer  Steve A. Ballmer  discussed buying the maker of graphics
software.  Jobless Claims  Initial  jobless claims  dropped by 11,000 to 445,000 in the
week ended Oct. 2, the fewest since July 10. Economists
projected 455,000 new claims last week, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The September jobs report, set
for tomorrow, is forecast to show a rise in the unemployment
rate for a second month, to 9.7 percent, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  Alcoa Inc. , the biggest U.S. aluminum producer, reported
third-quarter profit excluding certain items of 9 cents a share.
Analysts projected Alcoa, the first in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average to report earnings for the June-September period, would
earn 5 cents a share. The stock slipped 1.4 percent before the
results were released.  U.S. two-year Treasury yields trimmed losses after  falling 
to as low as 0.351 percent, a record. The 10-year yield was
little changed at 2.39 percent, near the lowest since January
2009.  Euro Reverses Gain  The euro weakened 0.2 percent to $1.3909 after earlier
topping $1.40 for the first time in eight months and extending
its gain over the past month to 10 percent. The yen pared gains
to trade at 82.38 per dollar after reaching 82.11, its strongest
level since 1995, amid speculation the Bank of Japan will resist
seeking to curb its gains.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said he
opposes “disorderly” currency moves before a Group of Seven
summit likely to be dominated by discussions about exchange
rates. The ECB held its key rate steady today and the Bank of
England kept its benchmark interest rate and debt-buying program
unchanged.  Countries around the world are taking measures to devalue
currencies and loosen monetary policy to safeguard export-led
growth. Thailand may do more to relax limits on money outflows,
Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva  said yesterday in an interview
in New York.  ‘Currency Wars’  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in Brussels yesterday his
country will stick to gradually increasing the yuan’s
flexibility, criticizing Europe and the U.S. for pressuring for
a revaluation.  “There’s a lot of concern that currency wars are going to
escalate,” said  Noman Ali , who manages $3 billion of U.S.
stocks at MFC Global Investment Management in Toronto.
“Everybody is looking at export markets to rescue growth, and
the best way to do it is to devalue the currency. But if
everybody starts devaluing their currency that mechanism
fails.”  European stocks closed little changed. Volvo AB fell 5.3
percent in Stockholm and Renault SA surged 8.5 percent in Paris
as France’s second-largest carmaker sold a 14.9 percent stake in
the Swedish truckmaker. Kazakhmys Plc, Kazakhstan’s biggest
copper company, retreated 5.6 percent as an investor sold
shares. Man Group Plc, Actelion Ltd. and Demag Cranes AG soared
more than 5 percent amid takeover speculation.  German 10-year bonds declined, sending the yield up 4 basis
points to 2.26 percent.  Spain’s 10-year yield rose 3 basis points to 4.01 percent
after the nation sold 3.22 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of
three-year notes at an average yield of 2.527 percent, compared
with a yield of 2.276 percent when the notes were last auctioned
on Aug. 5. The government aimed to sell a maximum of 4 billion
euros. France sold about 8.5 billion euros of bonds maturing in
2020, 2026 and 2029. France’s 10-year yield increased 6 basis
points to 2.63 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 