-- Asness Meets ‘Grim Reaper’ Before Fund Rebounds From 50% Loss
-- B y   R i c h a r d   T e i t e l b a u m
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/asness-encounters-grim-reaper-before-quant-fund-rebounds-from-50-loss.html
Clifford Asness, who runs AQR Capital
Management LLC, one of the world’s biggest  hedge funds , says
fellow fund managers gouge their clients by charging exorbitant
fees for just tracking the markets. He also takes a dim view of
the administration of President  Barack Obama , calling his
economic team “Cossacks on a shtetl,” a reference to the Russian
cavalrymen who sacked Jewish villages in Eastern Europe in the
19th century.  The hedge fund manager -- who is both a  University of
Chicago  Ph.D. and a  Marvel comic book  collector -- is well known
for his impolitic outbursts, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports
in its November issue.  “What kind of coward doesn’t share his views?” asks Asness,
43, as he paces his office overlooking Long Island Sound in
Greenwich,  Connecticut . “I believe strongly that the world is
going on the wrong course.”  Asness went the wrong way three years ago. From the start
of 2007 through year-end 2008, AQR’s flagship Absolute Return
fund fell more than 50 percent -- the kind of drawdown that’s
often a death warrant for a fund. Firmwide assets tumbled to
$17.2 billion in March 2009 from a peak of $39.1 billion in
September 2007, according to AQR investors.  “I heard the Valkyries circling,” quips Asness, who says he
identifies with action heroes like Captain America and Spider-
Man. “I saw the grim reaper at my door.”  Smart Recovery  AQR survived. It did so by launching a campaign of
diplomacy with its clients and offering a host of new funds and
strategies. Asness’s funds have recovered smartly. Though the
Absolute Return fund’s assets were down to $1.6 billion as of
Aug. 31 from a peak of $4 billion, the fund rose 38 percent in
2009 and more than 10 percent through mid-September of this
year, investors say.  As a quantitative investment firm, AQR uses algorithms and
computerized models to trade stocks, bonds, currencies and
commodities. Many quant funds got hit hard in 2007 and then
again in the 2008 market crash.  “AQR has to fight against this current that’s going against
them,” says Daniel Celeghin, a partner at Casey, Quirk &
Associates LLC, a consulting firm in Darien, Connecticut. “They
are one of the few quant firms that have managed to come back.”  AQR’s $1 billion Delta fund, opened in late 2008, returned
19.3 percent in 2009, an investor says -- beating  Hedge Fund
Research Inc. ’s Fund of Funds Composite Index, which returned
11.5 percent. The fund was up 3.9 percent in 2010 through August
versus a 0.3 percent loss for the HFRI index.    Asset Allocation   One version of AQR Global Risk Premium, a $3.9 billion
asset allocation fund -- meaning it divides its investments
across myriad markets -- surged 21.2 percent in 2009 and was up
17.2 percent this year through August, according to investors.  AQR has also been building a family of mutual funds for
retail investors since 2008, with total assets in September of
$2.3 billion. Three of them focus on momentum investing --
exploiting the tendency of securities to continue in their most
recent trajectories. One invests in futures, and another bets on
various kinds of arbitrage. Two trade foreign stocks. The
latest, an asset allocation fund based on the Global Risk
Premium fund’s strategy, rolled out October 1.  The firm markets the funds, which use quantitative models,
through financial advisers.  Year to date through August, AQR has added $5.8 billion to
its assets, which totaled $26.8 billion by the end of that
month, according to investors. “It’s extraordinary to have had
that kind of drawdown and then see them pull in their belts and
come back so strongly,” says Tom Healey, founder of private
investment firm Healey Development LLC, which invests with AQR.  Suffering Investors  Still, longtime investors in AQR suffered. The devastation
of 2007 and 2008 gave the Absolute Return fund a negative record
from its 1998 inception to its nadir in the market crash,
according to a former employee. AQR declined to provide any fund
returns for this article.  In early August 2007, AQR and some other quants found their
programs had directed them into many of the same losing stock
positions -- briefly costing them billions as markets short-
circuited. Most funds quickly bounced back, only to plunge again
in 2008 when stock, bond and commodity prices collapsed.  Research firm  Lipper Inc. , which tracks quant funds, says
their number fell to 240 in July from 374 at the end of 2005.
From the start of 2005 through June 2010, investment firms
actively trading U.S. equities using quantitative strategies had
a cumulative return of minus 1.15 percent.  Those using fundamental techniques -- traditional stock
picking based on companies’ prospects and share prices -- had a
cumulative return of 9.51 percent, according to  EVestment
Alliance LLC , an Atlanta-based research firm.  Four-Day Rout  The August 2007 quant rout unfolded over four days,
probably after one or more firms tried to close out some of
their positions, according to  Andrew Lo , director of
Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s  Laboratory for Financial
Engineering , who has studied the quant crash.  On Aug. 6, there was a rush to the exits. Stocks popular
with quants collapsed as they sold, while those they were
betting against soared as managers scrambled to cover short
positions. On Aug. 10, markets rebounded. AQR Absolute Return,
which had a peak-to-trough loss of 13 percent in August,
finished the month down only 3.4 percent because it stuck with
its positions.  The calamity of 2008 was far more wide ranging and
enduring. The collapse of mortgage-related assets brought down
the stock, bond and commodity markets globally. Absolute Return
fell about 40 percent, according to investors. Now, Asness is
working overtime to win back investors and make sure his
algorithms perform.  Low Fees  One reason some of AQR’s funds attract investors is their
low fees. The Delta fund offers investors an arrangement in
which they pay a 1 percent management fee plus 10 percent of any
profits it earns, versus the 2 percent and 20 percent typical of
hedge funds. The fee rises or falls depending on how closely the
fund tracks its benchmark.  AQR mutual funds charge as little as 0.49 percent, on a par
with some of those offered by low-cost  Vanguard Group  Inc.
Vanguard founder John Bogle says he’s impressed.  “He’s proved his point that he can do it at a reasonable
cost,” says Bogle, who’s a fan of  AQR research . “If I were a
betting person, I’d bet he gives competitive returns.”  Asness’s low fees, positive performance and powers of
persuasion have reassured investors.  Alaska Endorsement  “His ability to communicate in front of trustees is
phenomenal,” says Jeff Scott, chief investment officer of the
$36 billion Alaska Permanent Fund Corp., which invested $500
million with AQR in January, now spread among Absolute Return,
Delta and Global Risk Premium. “These are people who are trying
to solve our problems and not just raise money.”  On an August morning, Asness walks to his sun-dappled
office windowsill and picks up a Captain America action figure.
The hedge-fund mogul owns a panoply of action heroes, from the
Hulk to the Silver Surfer, and the comic books that spawned
them.  “I like to think of it as a much, much more affordable
version of a money manager collecting art,” he says.  Though the wisecracks never stop, Asness is at the same
time a demanding boss, two former employees say. One recalls
being questioned about profit-loss updates on Thanksgiving.  And Asness admits to a temper: He’s knocked his ViewSonic
computer monitor to the floor on three occasions, though it
never broke.  “Either they’re building good computer screens or my punch
isn’t what it used to be,” he says.  Grad School Ambiance  Asness calls the decor at AQR -- with its wood-paneled
walls and spare furnishings -- “Goldman Sachs circa 1997.” In
tone, however, the research process hums more like a finance
graduate school.  “We try and run it like an applied academic seminar,”
Asness says. “If you can get savage capitalists to rationally
act like a team, then you have a beautiful thing.”  AQR’s trading is mostly automated, so there is little of
the shouting and tumult that characterize some hedge funds.
Partners, traders and analysts sit on a trading floor in a dozen
rows, with some senior researchers taking the windowed offices.
Academics are invited to give talks on subjects ranging from
behavioral finance to accounting rules.  A Plethora of Funds  AQR manages some 65 funds of various stripes, and often
tailors core strategies to meet client needs -- using more or
less leverage, for example. The firm has adapted its models to
trade in everything from the Polish zloty to Japanese bonds, to
oil, gold and wheat. Asness says the myriad strategies and
markets provide the extra safety that comes with spreading one’s
bets.  Example: AQR uses its models to run traditional long-only
funds, seeking to beat a benchmark by a few percentage points
while limiting risk.  “We really believe in diversification of all kinds,” Asness
says, adding that it especially helped during the meat grinder
of 2008. “It did make it a lot easier to stay the course.”  Even as he works to outsmart volatile markets, Asness
continues offering opinions on everything from  Broadway  musicals
to overhauling U.S. health care. Asness performs across all
media, writing opinion pieces for newspapers and magazines,
talking on television shows and at conferences and contributing
to websites.  “It’s almost like he can’t help himself,” says Theodore Aronson of Philadelphia quant firm  Aronson + Johnson + Ortiz .
“He’s afraid of no one and is not capable of telling a lie. It’s
not the usual pablum.”  E-Mail Blasts  Asness sounds off most frequently in e-mail blasts to a
personal network of friends, family and investors. One sarcastic
example, from March, concerned a  U.S. Senate  move to create a
federal office to predict financial crises.  “This is definitely going to work,” he wrote. “No more
bubbles. These geniuses will get it right. Promise. And all for
a government salary.”  Asness admits to a superhero complex. His favorite Marvel
comic book character is  Captain America , who gains strength with
the help of a secret serum and whose shield can be used as an
indestructible weapon. Asness has an image of the shield
tattooed on his left arm.  “His super-villains are intellectual dishonesty and
ignorance,” says Jonathan Beinner, a managing director at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and a former classmate of Asness. “When
someone offers  an opinion  that Cliff feels is incorrect or
dishonest, whether it be related to investments, politics or
pizza, he feels it is his duty to stand up, even if it’s not in
his best interest.”  ‘Frigging Idiots’  In August, Asness was complaining about Obama’s health-
care law, which he calls socialized medicine, the increased
powers Congress gave financial regulators and the tendency of
commentators to blame banks alone for the crisis.  “Everyone dropped the ball on this; the public acted like
frigging idiots,” he says. “There were sins of individuals, sins
of banks, sins of government.”  Asness’s views are not always predictable. He has praised
 Tea Party  activists, blogging in March, “Your aggressive stand
for freedom and small government has inspired the country.” At
the same time, he endorses the  American Civil Liberties Union’s 
campaigns to guard civil liberties.  With AQR in comeback mode, Asness is in good humor as he
bites into a piece of spicy tuna roll sushi one August afternoon
at AQR’s offices. Around a conference room table are two of the
three other founding AQR partners. David Kabiller, 47, a former
Northwestern University tennis champion, heads client relations
and favors Tom Ford blazers.  School Pals  John Liew, 43, is a former Asness classmate at the
 University of Chicago Graduate School  of Business, where they
both earned Ph.D.s in finance. He heads AQR’s global asset
allocation team.  The fourth founding partner, Robert Krail, also a
University of Chicago alum, is on medical leave.  AQR was buttressed by some key decisions during 2007 and
2008, Asness says. For example, the firm didn’t panic and pull
the plug on its models. “We believed in the models,” Asness
says. While that punished AQR in the sell-off, it left the firm
positioned for the rebound beginning in March 2009.  “It’s riding a statistical beast,” he says. “Having a
lodestone to come back to helps.”  AQR has tried to keep its investors loyal by keeping them
well informed of its strategies for battling the market turmoil.  “Clients want to hear from us,” Kabiller says. “People have
a negative view of a black box.”  No New Restrictions  The firm didn’t impose new restrictions on investor
redemptions, as many funds did.  The firm did make some changes. Now, a big stock sell-off
will automatically trigger systems that reduce leverage at
various thresholds, cut back on risk and raise cash.  Like many quant firms, AQR is grounded in the efficient
market hypothesis, or EMH, promulgated by professor  Eugene Fama 
of the University of Chicago, who was Asness’s Ph.D. thesis
adviser. Fama, 71, and his adherents say that the stock market
is effective at digesting the available information about an
asset and setting the right price for it.  EMH lost a lot of its luster in the sell-off, when the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 57 percent in 18 months. “From
a macro perspective, the market has been woefully lacking in
trying to figure out what the valuation of an asset should be,”
says Justin Fox, author of “The Myth of the Rational Market”
(HarperBusiness, 2009).  “People had an idea that the market was effective at
sussing things out. That’s been discredited.”  Not Perfectly Efficient  Asness doesn’t believe any market is perfectly efficient.  “We aren’t believers in the extreme form of the efficient
market hypothesis and shouldn’t have to defend it,” Asness says.
“EMH says ‘prices reflect all information,’ and I think the tech
crash and the real-estate bubble culminating in 2008 were real
blows to that idea.”  AQR’s business, in fact, is to find inefficiencies in the
markets and profit from them. AQR researchers examine variables
that over time generate higher returns, or premiums. Fama and
Kenneth French, who now teaches at  Dartmouth College , in 1992
published research showing that stocks with high book values
relative to their prices outperformed those with low book
values. The difference between the two is known as the value
premium. The book value of a company is its net worth.  The same  research  found that small-capitalization stocks
outperformed large caps.  Value Premium  Quants such as those at AQR have found ways to apply the
value premium to different markets and asset classes, like
currencies and bonds -- or even whole countries. Asness and
colleagues might add up the market valuation of stocks in France
and  Germany , compare them with the earnings or book values of
the listed companies and conclude that one of the countries’
stocks are undervalued.  Another variable that generates a premium is momentum --
the tendency of a stock’s price to continue upward if it is
rising and downward if it’s falling. Asness, in his 1994 Ph.D.
dissertation, was among the first to show the existence of a
premium tied to momentum, Fama says.  The value and momentum premiums drive more than half of
AQR’s returns, Asness says. Another model AQR uses asserts that
the stocks of companies that are reducing their share count tend
to outperform those of companies increasing it.  “We think they all make money more often than not,” Asness
says.  Lawyer’s Son  Born in the borough of Queens,  New York , Asness may have
inherited his entrepreneurial streak from his mother, Carol, who
ran a medical education firm. His father, Barry, was an
assistant  district attorney  in  Manhattan . Asness’s younger
brother Bradley would follow in their father’s footsteps; he
took up law and is now general counsel at AQR.  “He’s 6 foot 2, has all his blond hair, and I am bitter,”
Asness deadpans.  Cliff Asness is 5 foot 10 inches (1.8 meters) tall and
weighs 200 pounds (90 kilograms). He is bald with a graying
beard.  Asness wasn’t an academic star at  Herricks High School  in  New Hyde Park , New York.  “I had a mediocre record in high school,” Asness says. “I
was desperately trying to get girls interested in geeks.”  His destiny, according to the 1984 yearbook: “Rich.”  Summa Cum Laude  Asness earned two B.S. degrees at the  University of
Pennsylvania , one from the  Wharton School  and the other from
what is now the School of Engineering and Applied Science,
graduating summa cum laude.  “I believed in diversification even then,” he says.  The future hedge fund mogul made his presence felt on
campus.  “He was the king of the geeks,” says Beinner, a dorm mate
in Asness’s freshman year who’s now chief investment officer of
Goldman Sachs Asset Management’s fixed-income unit. “Cliff just
had a following. People were always asking him questions when he
was hanging around the computer lab.”  Lo, then a Wharton School professor, hired Asness as an
assistant. Lo eventually started his own quant firm,
 AlphaSimplex Group , now part of the French bank  Natixis .  “He would run regression analyses for me,” says Lo,
referring to the process used to find relationships between
variables for the purpose of predicting future values. “Given
his background in computer programming and finance, he was
perfect.”  Chicago Bound  Lo wrote Asness a recommendation to the University of
Chicago Graduate School of Business, now the  Booth School  of
Business, and soon he was off to America’s citadel of free-
market thinking.  Asness became one of Fama’s favorites.  “Cliff was among the smartest students to pass through,”
Fama says. In 1990, Asness became the efficient-markets guru’s
teaching assistant, putting him on track for an academic career.  “I thought he had the potential to make an excellent
professor,” Fama says.  A summer job at Goldman Sachs, engineered with help from
Beinner, sent Asness in a different direction. In 1992, he
signed on for a one-year research job. In 1993 and 1994, the
Ph.D. candidate found himself struggling to complete a 150-page
thesis while logging 80-hour weeks for Goldman. In 1994, the
investment bank hired him to build a quant research department.  $1 Million Classroom  Although they’re friends, Fama says he remains irked that
Asness didn’t pursue an academic career.  “We invested a lot of time and effort in Cliff,” he says.
Asness donated $1 million to name a classroom after Fama. “He
should name another,” Fama says.  At Goldman, Asness recruited future AQR partners Liew and
Krail, two former classmates from the University of Chicago who
worked at Trout Trading Co. In addition to building trading
models, the Quantitative Research Group crunched numbers and
drew charts to help guide the bank’s traditional stock pickers
and other managers. Asness also started what was then a small
hedge fund for Goldman called Global Alpha -- which would grow
to $11 billion in assets by 2007.  Under Asness, Global Alpha scored gains of 111 percent in
1996 and 42 percent in 1997. He grew frustrated with his other
duties.  “We thought it was crazy that they wouldn’t let us focus on
investing alone,” Asness says.  Two Sets of Twins  Asness, Liew, Krail and Kabiller, who had worked in
Goldman’s pension services group, decamped to start AQR in 1998.
In 1999, Asness married Laurel Fraser, a former Christie’s
International salesperson, who before they dated had been his
executive assistant at Goldman. They are parents of two sets of
twins, born 18 months apart.  AQR started with $1 billion, Asness says. It began trading
in August 1998 -- when the bubble in Internet and other
technology stocks was in full bloom. AQR followed its models,
betting against expensive stocks and buying cheap ones. That
meant Absolute Return hemorrhaged money until the market turned
against tech in March 2000.  “We began with $1 billion and through hard work and acumen
turned that into $400 million,” Asness jokes.  The founders toured the world, trying to persuade investors
that the tide would turn. In 2000, Asness penned a paper called
“Bubble Logic,” in which he picked apart the arguments
supporting sky-high technology stock valuations.  “When fallacies rule the land, somebody has to point out
the naked emperor,” he wrote.  Market Turn  In March 2000, the market turned and Absolute Return began
making money. The fund finished 2000 up 16.7 percent, investors
say. The Nasdaq Composite Index lost 77.9 percent of its value
between March 2000 and October 2002. From there, AQR flourished,
with assets rising to $12 billion in 2004, when the firm moved
to Greenwich.  A key lesson of 1998 to 2000 was replayed less than 10
years later.  “No strategy is so good that it can’t have a bad year or
more,” Asness says. “You’ve got to guess at worst cases: No
model will tell you that. My rule of thumb is double the worst
that you have ever seen.”  The firm has also redoubled its effort to develop new
strategies for boosting returns and improve existing ones. John Cochrane, the AQR Capital Management Professor of Finance at the
University of Chicago, says many quants just mine past data and
extrapolate returns.  ‘Really Analytical’  “AQR is really analytical,” he says. “They put a lot of
academic research to work -- and they create a lot of academic
research.”  The Delta fund is one result. Drawing on years of analysis,
the fund is based on the notion that some of the investing
techniques used by hedge funds, such as merger and convertible
bond arbitrage, aren’t as sophisticated as they’re cracked up to
be.  Merger arb hedge funds typically buy the stock of
acquisition targets and sell short that of acquirers.
Convertible arbitrage often involves buying a convertible bond
and shorting the corresponding stock, locking in the yield.  AQR’s research showed that with the right formulas
programmed in, the buying and selling of stocks and bonds for
merger and convertible bond arbitrage could be automated. And
that’s what the Delta fund is: a kind of systematic hedge fund
using multiple strategies.  “It’s sexy in a wonkish sort of way,” Asness says.  Balancing Risk  The Global Risk Premium fund is another example. Research
showed that pension funds that use traditional, balanced asset
allocation formulas -- say, 60 percent stocks and 40 percent
bonds -- are actually unbalanced in terms of risk. That’s
because stocks, which are much more volatile, may account for 85
to 90 percent of such a portfolio’s risk.  The Risk Premium fund puts money to work in a variety of
asset classes -- stocks, bonds, commodities and others -- to
spread risk more evenly. The amount of volatility a pension
investor wants in order to get to a desired return is adjusted
with leverage.  Asness and colleagues say they’re tweaking formulas at the
fortified Absolute Return fund so that it can return to its
former prominence in the firm.  “AQR believes in preserving capital by managing risk,” says
the Alaska Permanent Fund’s Scott, who’s targeting returns of 5
percentage points above inflation going forward. “The returns
are working, but the bigger picture is working too. What we
found with Cliff is, he rolls up his sleeves and teaches us.”  Post-Crash Blues  Around the developed world, expectations for future
investment returns have withered following the financial crisis
and the drawn-out recession. Asness realizes that AQR won’t soon
return to the fat margins of pre-crash days.  “The whole industry is less lucrative than it used to be,”
he says.  How will AQR define its own success in an era of tempered
hopes? More assets? Higher profits? Asness -- father of four,
self-declared family man -- gives an answer he knows will get
him in trouble at home.  “Two words,” he says, pausing for effect with a smile.
“Trophy wife.”  There goes the bigmouth again.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Teitelbaum in New York at 
 rteitelbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 