-- Latvian Deflation May Have Ended, Hindering Drive to Boost Competitiveness
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-10-07T14:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/latvian-deflation-may-have-ended-hindering-drive-to-boost-competitiveness.html
Latvian  consumer prices  probably rose
in September, after 11 months of deflation, as the cost of
energy and food increase.  Prices may have advanced 0.3 percent from a year earlier,
according to the median estimate of eight economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The monthly increase is also forecast at 0.3 percent.
The statistics office will release September data tomorrow.  Inflation may hinder the government’s effort to restore
competitiveness through deflation, instead of letting the 
currency depreciate, a process called internal devaluation. 
During a real estate and construction-led boom from 2005 to 
2007, Latvia had 25 months of inflation above 8 percent, 
peaking at 17.9 percent in May 2008. The boom turned to bust
soon after, triggering Latvia’s worst recession on record.  “There has been a huge influence on the entire price level
this year from external factors” such as food and energy costs,
said  Zigurds Vaikulis , chief economist at Riga-based Citadele
Banka A/S, in an e-mail. “In the next few months prices will
slowly continue to increase, but the annual inflation level will
reach about 2.5 percent.”  Latvia turned to a group led by the European Commission and
the  International Monetary Fund  for a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.5
billion) loan after its second-biggest bank failed. The Baltic
country’s  economy  is slowly rebounding from an 18 percent
contraction last year as manufacturing and exports recover.  Latvia opted to cut state wages, reduce spending and raise
taxes to restore competitiveness rather than devalue the
currency because of the high level of foreign currency
borrowing. With the lats pegged to Europe’s single currency,
about 85 percent of all loans are denominated in euros.  The country runs a quasi-currency board, where lati in
circulation are backed by foreign exchange at the central bank,
and the currency is allowed to trade 1 percent around a midpoint
to the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga, Lia, at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  