-- Australian Job Boom Sends Gillard an Immigration `Wake-Up Call'
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-08T03:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/australian-job-boom-sends-gillard-government-an-immigration-wake-up-call-.html
Australia’s surging job market,
capping its strongest quarter since 2006, signals the government
may need to retreat from a campaign pledge to slow population
growth as the central bank tries to control inflation.  The number of people  employed  rose 49,500 in September from
a month earlier, almost 2 ½ times the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey and the most since January, the statistics
bureau said yesterday in Sydney. Full-time employment jumped
112,500 in the past two months, the biggest back-to-back
increase since 1988.  “Clearly the latest jobs data sends a wake-up call to the
government,” said  Craig James , a senior economist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. “If we want to
restrain wage pressures and keep interest rates low then labor
supply needs to increase and that means more migrants.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  campaigned before the Aug. 21
election for reduced population gains and dropped her
predecessor’s endorsement of a “Big Australia” policy that
envisioned a surge of more than 50 percent in citizens in the
coming four decades. Since her win, job gains that may presage a
jump in wages threaten to force the central bank to raise
interest rates further.  Net immigration dropped 25 percent to 241,400 in the year
ended March 31 from 320,400 recorded for the year earlier, a
statistics bureau report showed last month.  Not ‘Desirable’  In the past year, immigration has fallen at the fastest
rate on record, which is “certainly not a desirable outcome,”
James said.  Under the baseline scenario of a Treasury report in
February, the population is forecast to expand 1.2 percent a
year to 35.9 million by 2050. Paring that rate by one-third
would cut the average annual economic growth rate to 2.3 percent
from 2.7 percent, according to the Treasury. Net migration is
the “key” variable influencing the outcomes, the study said.  The report yesterday showed the nation’s jobless rate held
at 5.1 percent last month, while the labor participation rate,
which measures the percent of the population over 15 years old
that has a job or is looking for one, was 65.6 percent, compared
with 65.4 percent in August.  Wage Pressure  “We haven’t quite got the unemployment rate down to a
point where it triggers wage pressure and concerns about
inflation,” said  Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at Nomura
Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “But it’s only a matter of time
before we get there.”  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  kept the
benchmark rate unchanged at 4.5 percent this week, while saying
that higher borrowing costs will likely be needed “at some
point.”  Traders in futures contracts are betting on a 60 percent
chance the RBA will raise its key rate by a quarter percentage
point next month, compared with the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
policy of holding its rate near zero. That divergence helped
fuel the Australian currency to a record against the U.S. dollar
late yesterday.  The currency was at 98.15 U.S. cents at 10:51 a.m. in
Sydney from 98.25 in New York yesterday, when it touched 99.18,
the strongest since exchange controls were ended in 1983.  RBA Outlook  The RBA forecasts economic growth will accelerate as demand
from China spurs investment spending by companies such as
Chevron Corp., which is building the A$43 billion ($42 billion)
Gorgon liquefied natural gas project in Western Australia.  That state’s jobless rate climbed for a third straight
month, to 4.6 percent in September, yesterday’s report showed.  “This suggests that the ramp-up of Gorgon LNG and other
major mining projects is yet to really impact,” said  Joshua Williamson , a senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney.
“But as the ramp-up builds momentum over the next 12 months
this will drive the unemployment rate sharply lower in W.A.,
putting pressure on labor costs and the costs of materials.”  The region will need an additional 500,000 workers over the
next 10 years as BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining
company, and Xstrata Plc, the top thermal coal exporter, develop
projects, according to the state’s chamber of commerce and
industry in Perth.  ‘Full Capacity’  “The economy has been growing continuously for almost 20
years” and “is therefore approaching full capacity,” RBA
Deputy Governor  Ric Battellino  said in a speech today in
Brisbane. “The resources boom that began about 2005, and which
abated for a time during the global financial crisis, is
reemerging, adding to the pressure on capacity.”  Gillard, campaigning to win Labor a second straight term in
office in the Aug. 21 vote, in a July 20 speech warned against
“hurtling down the track towards a big population” and said
the current growth model is “irresponsible.” By contrast,
former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  said “I believe in a big
Australia” in an October 2009 speech.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  