-- Avis Plans $400 Million Debt Sale for Thrifty Takeover
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-10-07T19:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/avis-budget-plans-400-million-bond-offering-for-dollar-thrifty-takeover.html
Avis Budget Group Inc. , the third-
largest U.S. rental-car company, plans to sell $400 million of
debt to help pay for its acquisition of Dollar Thrifty
Automotive Group Inc., according to a person familiar with the
transaction.  The notes due in 2019 may be issued as soon as today at a
yield of 8.25 percent to 8.375 percent, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Parsippany,
New Jersey-based Avis may also use proceeds to repay outstanding
debt, the person said.  Avis is marketing the notes a week after Dollar Thrifty
shareholders rejected another takeover bid from Hertz Global
Holdings Inc., the second-largest car rental company. Sales of
junk-rated corporate debt to pay for acquisitions has climbed
this year to 15 percent of issuance from 5 percent in 2009,
according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. report on Oct. 1.  “Dollar comes with income and hardly any debt, so the
picture for Avis looks better now,” said  Shelly Lombard , a debt
analyst with New York-based Gimme Credit. “Not as good as it
would’ve looked with Hertz, and not as good as it would’ve been
at a lower price, but it looks better nonetheless.”  Hertz withdrew its $1.44 billion bid to acquire Dollar
Thrifty on Sept. 30 after the shareholder vote. Avis increased
its offer to $1.53 billion a week earlier.  Variable Funding Notes  The securities are expected to be rated B3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and B, one step higher, by Standard & Poor’s.
High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is ranked below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Avis may issue the notes through the company’s Avis Budget
Car Rental LLC and Avis Budget Finance Inc. units, the person
said. Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley, Credit Agricole and RBS
Securities Inc. are managing the sale.  Dollar Thrifty’s  debt  included $1.1 billion of asset-backed
notes, $200 million of variable funding notes and $153.1 million
of term-loan borrowings as of June 30, according to a filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Avis reported preliminary third-quarter revenue that
trailed analysts’ estimates earlier today as drivers used their
borrowed cars less. Revenue in the period was $1.5 billion, the
company said today in a statement. Sales a year earlier were
$1.47 billion, and the average of three analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg was $1.52 billion.  Closely held Enterprise Holdings Inc., based in St. Louis,
is the biggest U.S. rental-car company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 