-- Milan Stocks Advance; Azimut, Buzzi, Impregilo, Mediaset, and Tenaris Move
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-07T15:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/azimut-fiat-stmicro-tenaris-might-move-italian-market-equity-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index  rose
for a third day, gaining 123.59, or 0.6 percent, to 20,691.90 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Milan.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  Azimut Holding SpA  (AZM IM) ended a three-day gain, losing
1.7 percent to 7.37 euros. Italy’s largest independent fund
manager had total net outflows of 80 million euros ($111.4
million) in September.  “Azimut in our view needs the announced product
restructuring which will be unveiled next January in order to go
back to sizeable net inflows making the investment case more
appealing,” Deutsche Bank AG said in a note.  Buzzi Unicem SpA  (BZU IM) lost 1.4 percent to 8.07 euros as
construction shares were among the worst performers in Europe
with the gauge for the industry falling for the first day in
three. Separately, Italy’s second-biggest cement was downgraded
to “add” from “buy” at AlphaValue.  Enel SpA  (ENEL IM) increased 1.3 percent to 3.94 euros, a
second gain this week. HSBC Holdings Plc reiterated an
“overweight” rating on Italy’s biggest utility. The brokerage
said in a note that the dividend is “likely to remain
underpinned by disposals, rising free cash flow, capex
flexibility, underlying earnings solidity.”  Fiat SpA  (F IM) rose 1.1 percent to 11.13 euros, a second
gain this week. Credit Suisse Group AG lifted its price estimate
on the carmaker to 10.5 euros from 9 euros. The brokerage, which
cited “an increase in relative peer group valuations,” kept a
“neutral” rating.  Gemina SpA  (GEM IM), the manager of Rome’s airports,
increased 2.4 percent to 52.9 euro cents, paring yesterday’s
loss on speculation the Joint Ministerial Committee for Economic
Planning, or CIPE, will tomorrow discuss new tariffs for Italian
airports. An increase would boost Gemina’s stock, Fidentiis
Equities SV SA said in a note.  Impregilo SpA  (IPG IM), Italy’s biggest builder, rose 3.5
percent to 2.23 euros after losing 2.6 percent yesterday. The
company said it signed a letter of intent for cooperation in the
desalination industry with Shanghai Electric Group Co., Mandarin
Capital Partners and China Development Bank Securities.  Mediaset SpA  (MS IM) advanced for a second day this week,
rising 1.3 percent to 5.11 euros after Corriere della Sera
reported that Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi is seeking to
reduce his stake in the Italian broadcasting company and has
been in talks with Russian funds.  A spokesman for Berlusconi’s holding company Fininvest SpA
denied the report. Fininvest controls Mediaset.  Sogefi SpA  (SO IM) gained 2.9 percent to 2.48 euros, a
third consecutive increase. Equita Sim SpA raised its price
estimate on the car-parts maker controlled by financier Carlo De
Benedetti by 25 percent to 2.5 euros.  Tenaris SA  (TEN IM) rose 1.3 percent to 14.38 euros, a
third straight gain. Fidentiis Equities SV SA initiated coverage
of the world’s biggest maker of seamless steel tubes for oil and
gas extraction with a “hold” rating. The brokerage set a
valuation range of 14.1-15.2 euros per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  