-- BOE Stimulus on Hold for Now After Panel Standoff on Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-07T11:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/bank-of-england-keeps-rate-steady-makes-no-change-to-asset-purchase-plan.html
The Bank of England kept up emergency
stimulus and left its interest rate at a record low as officials
debate whether to join a global push to pump more aid into the
world economy.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor
 Mervyn King , held the target for bond holdings at 200 billion
pounds ($319 billion), as  forecast  by all but one of 36
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The panel also kept the
benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent at its decision today in
London.  The pound rose to an eight-month high against the dollar
after the decision, which came after official  Adam Posen  stoked
speculation that the bank could loosen monetary policy as soon
as this month. The panel debated adding stimulus in September
and will revisit it in a month using new economic forecasts. By
then, they will also have more details of public-spending cuts
and the U.S. Federal Reserve’s asset-purchase plans.  “It was probably a three-way split and probably not just
Posen on the dovish side,” said  Ross Walker , an economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “November really is
finely poised. They could quite easily err on the side of
caution from the growth perspective and add to purchases.”  The pound rose above $1.60 for the first time since
February and traded at $1.6011 as of 12:46 p.m. in London. The
currency climbed from a five-month low against the euro and was
at 87.40 pence per euro. The yield on the benchmark two-year
government bond was up 3 basis points today at 0.642 percent.  Global Stimulus  The Bank of England’s rate decision was predicted by all 60
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. The European Central Bank
today kept its benchmark at 1 percent as financial-market
tensions complicate its exit from emergency measures. All 52
analysts in a separate survey forecast the outcome.  Other central banks are already signaling they will inject
more economic stimulus to shore up a flagging global recovery.
The Bank of Japan this week established a 5 trillion-yen ($60
billion) fund to buy assets. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
on Oct. 4 that further asset purchases may help the U.S.
economy. The Federal Open Market Committee’s next decision is on
Nov. 3, the day before the Bank of England’s.  Reports today highlighted the extent of the Bank of
England’s dilemma. While  Lloyds Banking Group ’s Halifax division
said today that house prices plunged 3.6 percent last month, the
most since records began in 1983, manufacturing data for August
showed a 0.3 percent increase to the strongest level of factory
output since November 2008.  Budget Squeeze  Spending cuts by Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government
threaten to weaken  economic growth  further. Cameron said
yesterday that Britain needs to “face up to our financial
responsibilities” by curbing the record budget deficit. Details
of the planned expenditure squeeze are due on Oct. 20.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc , the U.K.’s largest clothing
retailer, said today it’s “cautious” on the outlook and that
“trading conditions are likely to become more challenging.”  “From the last set of minutes it was clear that there was
more than one member concerned about economic activity,” said
 Ian Kernohan , an economist at Royal London Asset Management in
London. “But we see the economy muddling through. The monetary
policy settings are as loose now as they need to be.”  Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  has argued since June that the
economy is strong enough for the Bank of England to begin a
“gradual” withdrawal of stimulus by raising interest rates to
tame inflation. Consumer prices rose an annual 3.1 percent in
August, exceeding the government’s 3 percent limit for a sixth
month, while a gauge of service company growth unexpectedly rose
in September.  Posen’s View  Posen countered that view on Sept. 28, saying that
“further easing should be undertaken” by purchases of gilts
with newly created money. He added that officials should “not
settle for weak growth out of misplaced fear of inflation.” The
British Chambers of Commerce and Institute of Directors, both
London-based business lobby groups, backed him.  Former policy maker  David Blanchflower  endorsed his view in
an article for the New Statesman published today and said it was
“likely” that the bank will add 50 billion pounds to its
stimulus plan in November.  Other former policy makers disagree. Former Deputy Governor
 John Gieve  told the London-based Times newspaper this week that
“the likelihood is 70-30” that the recovery will continue.
 Kate Barker , who left the bank at the end of May, told CNBC last
month that the case for more stimulus was looking “less
certain.” Former finance minister  Norman Lamont  said yesterday
he wouldn’t favor more bond purchases.  Quarterly Forecasts  The Bank of England’s panel will have new quarterly
forecasts next month as they gauge if the economy needs more
stimulus and whether further bond purchases can aid growth.
Central bank officials estimate their stimulus actions so far
have shaved 1 percentage point off bond yields.  “Both camps would acknowledge that the data are
inconclusive,”  Simon Hayes , an economist at Barclays Capital
and a former Bank of England official, said before the decision.
“We still need to see some more bad news on the real economy in
order to see more quantitative easing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  