-- Bank of America Said to Hire Deutsche Bank's Zhang as Co-Head of Asia M&A
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-10-07T04:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/bank-of-america-said-to-hire-deutsche-bank-s-zhang-as-co-head-of-asia-m-a.html
Bank of America Corp. , the largest
U.S. lender by assets, hired  Zhang Xiuping  from Deutsche Bank AG
as co-head of mergers and acquisitions for Asia, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Zhang, 40, who will lead Bank of America’s regional M&A
team together with  Michael Cho , left Deutsche Bank last week and
will join the U.S. bank in December, the people said, asking not
to be identified before an announcement. She ran the German
lender’s China mergers advisory.  The hiring is a boost to Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch &
Co. unit, which slipped to 17th this year in advising Chinese
companies on overseas takeovers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Zhang helped bolster Deutsche Bank’s ranking in such
deals to second this year from No. 17 when she joined the lender
in 2008, the data show.  Rob Stewart , a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Bank of
America, confirmed Zhang’s appointment. Deutsche Bank spokesman
 Michael West  declined to comment.  Merrill is ranked first advising companies in Asia-Pacific
this year with almost $100 billion worth of acquisitions, rising
from eighth last year, Bloomberg data show. Zhang is likely to
focus on beefing up China’s M&A coverage, the people said.  Zhang advised on China Petrochemical Corp.’s $4.65 billion
acquisition of Syncrude Canada Ltd. in April and on  PetroChina
Co. ’s purchase of Singapore Petroleum Corp. last year. She also
advised Hunan Valin Iron & Steel Group on its $922 million
investment in Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. in 2009.  Before joining Deutsche Bank, Zhang was head of China
natural resources banking at JPMorgan Chase & Co. She holds an
MBA from Rollins College in the U.S. and a bachelors’ degree
from Shanghai Jiaotong University, according to an internal memo
sent by Merrill today.  Bank of America’s banking and markets business hired more
than 800 people outside the U.S. in the past 18 months,
extending Merrill Lynch’s reach, Chief Executive Officer  Brian Moynihan  said last month at an investment conference in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  