-- Bank of America Claims Programmer Stole Files Before Firing
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/bank-of-america-sues-ex-programmer-for-stealing-files-before-his-firing.html
A former  Bank of America Corp. 
computer programmer was accused in a lawsuit by the bank of
stealing 21 confidential files the day before he was to be
fired.  Rao Chalasani e-mailed the files to himself the night
before the company was to announce it was firing 400 people,
including him, Bank of America said in a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan. Chalasani worked in New
York for the bank’s global markets portfolio management group,
according to the complaint.  “It appears that defendant stole key documents from the
company with the intent of causing harm to Bank of America’s
business and reputation,” the bank said.  Bank of America  is seeking a court order requiring
Chalasani to return the files, plus unspecified damages. The
files included profit-and-loss figures, current securities
trading positions and company risk assessments, according to the
bank.  Chalasani didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
left yesterday at his home in New Jersey.  On Sept. 30, as part of a security review of large files
sent by  employees  outside the company, Bank of America
discovered that on Sept. 20 at 9:32 p.m., the night before the
firings were to be announced, Chalasani sent the 21 files from
his company e-mail address to a personal address, the bank
claimed.  Possible Job  Bank of America said Chalasani was told on Sept. 22 that he
was to be fired. He was being considered for a position with a
different  department , Chalasani was told, although it wasn’t
certain he would get the job, Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America said in the complaint.  Files Chalasani allegedly took included those titled
“Consolidated_Balance_Sheet.xls,” “RDM_Stress_Scenarios.pdf”
and “Global_Credit_Summary_.xls.”  The case is Banc of America Securities LLC v. Chalasani,
1:10-CV-7681, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in federal court in Manhattan at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 