-- Barclays Buys 12.75% Stake in Blackstone-Controlled Back-Office Company
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-10-07T12:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/barclays-to-take-12-75-stake-in-india-s-intelenet-global.html
Barclays Plc , Britain’s third-biggest
bank, acquired a 12.75 percent stake in an Indian provider of
back-office services that’s controlled by Blackstone Group LP
after the company’s revenue almost tripled.  SKR BPO Services, the owner of Intelenet Global Services
Ltd., sold new shares to Barclays,  Susir Kumar , chief executive
officer of Intelenet, told reporters in Mumbai today.
Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity firm, will own
66.25 percent of the company after the latest deal, he said.  Barclays and Blackstone are investing in India seeking to
participate in the second-fastest pace of economic growth in
Asia. Private equity firms have poured $6.5 billion into the
South Asian nation this year, more than twice the $2.5 billion
they invested in the same period a year earlier, according to
Venture Intelligence.  “Barclays has seen our phenomenal growth,” Kumar said.
The partnership with Barclays will help the company attract
clients as it did when Blackstone invested, helping Intelenet
add six “large banking portfolio customers,” he said.  Intelenet plans to sell shares in an initial public
offering in two years, Kumar said.  Barclays Capital advised both Barclays and Intelenet, while
Morgan Stanley helped Intelenet, according to Sandeep Aggarwal,
executive vice president for sales at the Indian company.  Sales at Mumbai-based Intelenet is forecast to rise 21
percent to as much as $290 million in the year ending March 31,
Kumar said. The company’s revenue almost tripled to $240 million
in the year ended March 31 from $90 million three years ago, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  