-- Barclays Hires Ex-Goldman Sachs Energy Banker for Japan Hedging
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2010-10-08T01:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/barclays-hires-ex-goldman-sachs-energy-banker-in-japan-to-drive-hedging.html
Barclays Plc  hired former Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. oil banker Yumi Hiramoto to meet demand from
Japanese refiners and trading houses for hedging commodities.  Hiramoto, 27, joined Barclays Capital Japan Ltd.’s
commodities division yesterday, Tokyo-based spokeswoman
 Marina Totsuka  said. She takes charge of oil and natural gas
derivatives sales, said two people with direct knowledge of
the matter, declining to be identified because her job
specification hasn’t been made public.  The U.K.’s third-biggest bank wants to capture demand
for crude and metals derivatives, tools used by refiners,
utilities, airlines and trading houses to mitigate the risk
of fluctuations in fuel costs and the value of their stakes
in overseas oil fields and mines.  “Japanese trading houses and explorers may expand
investment in overseas oil and gas assets after the yen’s recent
strength helped lower their acquisition costs,” said  Ken Hasegawa , commodities-derivatives sales manager at brokerage
Newedge in Tokyo. “Demand for commodities derivatives could
increase as these buyers of energy assets seek to reduce the
risks of a swing in the value of overseas holdings.”  Hiramoto has four years’ experience in energy risk hedging,
the people said.  Record Deals  Overseas natural-resource takeover and investment deals
by Japanese companies reached 710 billion yen ($8.6 billion)
in the nine months ended Sept. 30 this year, according to an Oct.
5 report compiled by Recof Data Corp., a unit of Tokyo-based
mergers and acquisitions adviser  Recof Corp.  The figure breached
the record annual-high of 577 billion yen set in 2008, the
report shows.  Mitsui & Co.’s February $1.4 billion purchase of a stake in
the Marcellus Shale gas project led Japanese natural-resource
investments abroad this year. The country’s second-biggest
trading house said it will spend at least $3 billion to move
ahead with the $25 billion project operated by Anadarko
Petroleum Corp.  Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s largest trader, followed suit. It
clinched a C$250 million ($246 million) acquisition agreement in
August with Penn West Energy Trust for a stake in the Cordova
shale-gas project in Canada.  Barclays hired Marubeni Corp. oil trader  Hiroyuki Oda 
last October to boost sales of derivatives as swings in crude
and refined product prices lowered  profits  at Japanese
refiners and utilities.  Yen’s Gains  Oil and metals  swaps  typically allow utilities and
manufacturers to pay a fixed price for a commodity while
another party, usually a bank, pays a floating price, based
on market benchmarks. If the benchmark goes up during the
term of the contract, the utility gets money from the bank,
and if it goes down, the utility pays.  The yen today traded near the strongest level against the
dollar in more than 15 years as speculation increased that the
U.S. Federal Reserve will step up purchases of government debt
to support the recovery. The dollar stood at 82.38 yen at 8:44
a.m. in Tokyo from 82.41 yen in New York yesterday when it
touched 82.11, the lowest since May 1995.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Yuji Okada  in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 