-- BASF, Ineos Form 5 Billion-Euro Venture to Build Styrene Scale
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2010-11-30T10:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/basf-to-place-styrene-business-into-separate-unit-ahead-of-a-possible-sale.html
BASF SE  and Ineos Group Holdings
plan to merge their styrene operations, creating a plastics
company with sales of more than 5 billion euros ($6.6 billion).  Styrolution will incorporate  assets  making materials such
as polystyrene and styrene monomers, used in consumer goods,
Ludwigshafen-based BASF and Ineos of Switzerland said in a joint
statement today. The company, which will operate as a separate
entity, will be equally owned by Ineos and BASF.  While Ineos has made acquisitions to expand in styrene,
BASF has sought an exit from that market for almost four years
as Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Hambrecht  pursues growth in
more profitable, less commoditized markets such as cosmetic
ingredients and crop protection. A joint venture would be a
prelude to BASF exiting the market altogether, a company
official with knowledge of the situation said a year ago.  “For BASF this is a detour on their way to exit the
business completely,” said  Jochen Schlachter , a credit analyst
at UniCredit in Munich. “It’s good for BASF to get rid of
another commodities business and it will help their margins.
Ineos may well have wanted to buy BASF’s styrene assets whole,
but they may lack the financial resources.”  The move follows  Dow Chemical Co. ’s creation of Styron
Inc., which Bain Capital Partners eventually bought for $1.63
billion in June.  Door Opens  As a prelude to the agreement, Ineos first bought out Abu
Dhabi-owned Nova Chemicals’ share of an existing styrene joint
venture as three-way talks over a combination with BASF failed
to materialize.  “Ineos and Nova’s separation opened the door to getting
the deal done,” Callum Maclean, an executive at Ineos
overseeing refining and styrenics, said in an interview.
“Although we’ve been somewhat at the edges, we’ve been
gradually building our styrenics up. It’s a natural product for
Ineos to be in, given the markets we serve.”  The two companies are betting that creating a styrene
business of scale will raise competitiveness in a market
threatened by lower-cost operators in the Middle East with
access to cheaper feedstock. Ethylene and benzene are the main
raw-materials for styrene.  BASF will retain its global polystyrene foams business,
where demand is less volatile, and also styrene monomers and
polystyrene operations within its Ludwigshafen and Nanjing
integrated chemical complexes. BASF felt less pressure to exit
the business via a sale to private equity firms amid a rebound
in demand for plastics that helped drive up prices and improve
earnings, two people familiar with the situation said in May.  New Era  The venture marks a new period of growth for Ineos after it
had to refinance debt. The company, which this year moved its
headquarters to Switzerland to save on tax expenses, bought BP
Plc’s olefins and derivatives business for $9 billion in 2005
and added Lanxess’s AG ABS plastics business two years later.  The agreement marks the German company’s intention to stay
in the business in the medium term, Ineos’s Maclean said.
Although competitors in the Middle East have access to ethylene,
they don’t have big positions in polystyrene and ABS, where
products are becoming more specialized. Nova’s exit from the
styrene venture is a sign that Abu Dhabi didn’t view that market
as its strength, he said.  “It’s all about size and scale and technology,” said
Maclean. “They’ve left us to get on with it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Noel  in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  