-- BBVA Sells $20 Million of Credit-Linked Notes Tied to Portuguese Bond Risk
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-10-07T10:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/bbva-sells-20-million-of-credit-linked-notes-tied-to-portuguese-bond-risk.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA ,
Spain’s second-largest bank, sold $20 million of one-year notes
linked to the debt of Portugal.  The notes use income from credit-default swaps to pay a
coupon of 250 basis points more than the three-month dollar
London interbank offered rate, or  Libor , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The securities were issued at a price of
94.7 percent of face value.  Credit-default swaps on Portugal surged to a record 466.5
basis points last week amid concern the nation will struggle to
reduce its budget deficit. The contracts, used by investors to
bet on or hedge against a borrower’s ability to repay debt, were
at 408 today, the third-highest in Europe after Greece and
Ireland, according to data provider CMA.  The privately placed securities are the second Portugal-
linked notes issued this month, Bloomberg data show.  Deutsche
Bank AG  last week offered a spread of 275 basis points on notes
sold at par, which also included a clause allowing it to switch
to a fixed coupon of 5 percent after six months.  Credit-linked notes are tied to the creditworthiness of a
company or country, paying interest based on the income from
credit-default swaps or from the debt of the borrower they
reference. Investors face losing money on the securities if the
underlying entity defaults.  Three-month Libor, an average of rates set daily by banks
and used as a borrowing benchmark, is 0.29 percent.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($14 million) of debt from default is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  