-- Bee-Killing Disease May Be Combination Attack, Researchers Say
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/bee-killing-disorder-may-be-cause-by-combination-attack-researchers-find.html
The mysterious deaths of billions of
honeybees since 2006 that have harmed the U.S. agricultural
industry may be caused by a common fungus and a previously
unknown virus, University of Montana researchers say.  The virus, Invertebrate Iridescent Virus, or IIV6, seems to
work together with the Nosema fungus to kill the bees, said the
researchers, Colin Henderson and Jerry Bromenshenk, in  findings 
published in the online science journal PLoS ONE. The bee
disease known as Colony Collapse Disorder first appeared in 2006
and causes entire hives to die off without explanation.  Honeybees pollinate $15 billion of U.S. crops each year,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and companies
such as  General Mills Inc . and  Clorox Co . use pollinated crops
in their products. Scientists had looked toward viruses and
fungal infections as a cause of the disorder. The disease has
been reported in at least 35 states and been found in Europe,
Asia and South America.  “We have a strong suspect, I’m convinced we have what it
is,” Henderson, an associate professor at the university’s
College of Technology, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Since the first outbreak in 2006, the disorder has showed
up in 26 percent to 36 percent of hives each year, according to
a  survey  released in April by the Department of Agriculture. The
primary indication of colony collapse is whether hives were
found empty. The disorder is characterized by a massive flight
of bees, which don’t return to their hives to die.  Pollinated Products  Bees are essential for the health of pollinator-dependent
crops such as almonds and blueberries. Fruit-pollinated products
are found in items such as Haagen-Dazs ice cream from
Minneapolis-based  General Mills . Lip balm made by Burt’s Bees
Inc., a unit of Oakland, California-based  Clorox , contains wax
from the honeycombs of beehives.  Henderson and Bromenshenk began looking into the cause of
the bee disorder in 2006, when the first cases appeared. They
found Nosema, a single-celled fungus that was already well
known, and uncovered a suspicious DNA virus, IIV6, that “nobody
had looked for,” Henderson said.  “That pattern of those two showed up about 100 percent in
the first infected colonies that we found,” Henderson said.
When a second outbreak of the mysterious illness hit, the
scientists collected more samples, and again the virus and the
fungus appeared in the dead bees.  Then came more evidence. One of the bee colonies kept by
the University of Montana researchers got the disease, and for
the first time, scientists we were able to track the malady from
beginning to end, Henderson said.  Military Help  The tool to dig up the surprise virus from the dead bees
came from a U.S. Department of Defense program meant to monitor
disease outbreaks in people, specifically from biological
weapons.  The Defense Department technology essentially took ground
up bee parts and pulled out chains of proteins, some of which
may have been the virus infecting the bees. Henderson and
Bromenshenk compared the discoveries against a giant database of
known proteins funded by the  National Science Foundation .  “We just looked for everything,” Henderson said. What
they found was IIV6, a virus that was common in moths though it
wasn’t known to exist in bees.  Having identified the virus and the fungus, the researchers
tested bees in the lab. First they infected the bees with the
fungus alone, and some died, though not as many as with Colony
Collapse Disorder. Then they infected some with just the virus,
with the same result. When the combination of virus and fungus
was used, the results resembled the deadly disorder that had
been wiping out hives across the country, the researchers said.  The next step will be to test the theory in the field to
see if it proves true, Henderson said.  “The real closure of the circle for us is to take the two
pathogens to inoculate a colony, see it collapse, then pull out
the pathogens again,” he said. That will allow scientists to be
sure they have identified the cause, he said.  “We’re eight-tenths of the way there, in my opinion,”
Henderson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 