-- Fed’s $2 Trillion May Buy Little Improvement in Jobs
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-10-07T15:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/bernanke-s-2-trillion-may-buy-little-improvement-in-unemployment-prices.html
For $2 trillion, Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may buy little improvement in growth,
employment or inflation over the next two years.  Firms with large-scale models of the  U.S. economy  such as
IHS Global Insight, Moody’s Analytics Inc. and Macroeconomic
Advisers LLC project only a moderate impact from additional Fed
asset purchases. The firms estimate that the  unemployment rate 
will remain around 9 percent or higher next year whether the Fed
buys $500 billion or $2 trillion of U.S. Treasuries in a second
round of unconventional stimulus.  “This is not a game changer for the economic outlook,”
said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington,  Massachusetts , whose models show that $500 billion of
purchases would boost growth 0.1 percentage point in 2011 and
leave the unemployment rate at 9 percent or above for the next
two years. “There is clearly a risk that people start to
perceive monetary policy as impotent.”  The meager impact shows the conundrum U.S. central bankers
face.  Interest rates  near zero have failed to produce the
intended cycle of borrowing and spending among consumers and
businesses. Unemployment hovering near a 26-year high, partly a
symptom of weak demand, keeps downward pressure on prices, and
further declines in inflation would raise borrowing costs in
real terms, making credit more expensive.  “The danger of not doing anything would be pretty high,”
said Antulio Bomfim, managing director at Macroeconomic Advisers
in Washington. “Expanding the balance sheet might actually help
reduce the risk of deflation.”  September Statement  Yields on U.S. 10-year notes have fallen to 2.39 percent
from 2.7 percent on Sept. 20, the day before the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said it was prepared to ease policy further to
support the recovery. The two-year note yield fell 2 basis
points to 0.359 percent at 10:58 a.m. in  New York  trading and
touched 0.3513 percent, the lowest ever.  Fed watchers expect the Fed will take further action at its
next meeting Nov. 2-3. Economists predict unemployment will rise
to 9.7 percent when the Labor Department releases its September
report tomorrow, from 9.6 percent in August.  U.S. central bankers have kept their benchmark lending rate
near zero for almost two years. In March, they finished $1.7
trillion in purchases of Treasuries, mortgage-backed securities,
and housing agency bonds. A slowdown in growth in the middle two
quarters of this year prompted the FOMC last month to warn that
inflation rates were “somewhat below” its mandate to achieve
stable prices and full employment.  ‘Inflation Unacceptable’  New York Fed President William Dudley, who is also vice
chairman of the FOMC, was more blunt in an Oct. 1 speech in New
York, calling current levels of unemployment and inflation
“unacceptable.”  Bomfim and  Laurence Meyer , co-founder of St. Louis-based
Macroeconomic Advisers, predict the Fed will begin with
purchases of close to $100 billion a month starting in November,
boosting the balance sheet by as much as $1.5 trillion if
necessary.  Purchases of up to $2 trillion would raise the annual
growth rate of gross domestic product by 0.3 percentage point in
2011 and by 0.4 percentage point in 2012, Macroeconomic Advisers
estimates. Yields on U.S. 10-year notes could fall by as much as
half a percentage point.  The unemployment rate would finish at 9.2 percent next year
and at 7.7 percent in 2012, the firm estimates. Inflation would
only be slightly higher than their current forecast for the
personal consumption expenditures price index, minus food and
energy, remaining below 1% in both 2011 and 2012. The price
gauge rose 1.4 percent rate for the 12 months ending August.  Limits of Policy  Economists say further asset purchases could underscore the
limits of monetary policy, which is hobbled by consumers’ desire
to pay down debt and the reluctance of Congress to approve
additional fiscal stimulus.  “At the zero boundary on interest rates, the burden shifts
to fiscal policy, and fiscal policy is immobile because of the
politics,” said Meyer. “So now, the burden has shifted back to
monetary policy. You have to hope the economy’s own resilience
and underlying strength is going to be enough to have growth a
little bit above 3 percent.”  Dudley on Oct. 1 said that if the Fed were successful in
reducing long-term borrowing costs through efforts such as asset
purchases, it would have a “significant” effect on the
economy. Homeowners would refinance their mortgages at lower
rates, increasing disposable income.  Big Impact  An increase in refinancing isn’t likely to have a big
impact on the housing market or  consumer spending , said Joseph Murin, who was chief executive officer of Ginnie Mae, a federal
agency that securitizes home loans, from 2008 to 2009.  “The theory is good,” said Murin, now chairman of
Collingwood Group LLC, a consultant in  Washington . “Practically
speaking, I’m not sure.”  Homeowners who refinance are getting less money from
cashing out home equity because property values have declined,  Freddie Mac  said in a July report. In some cases, homeowners are
forced to increase their equity to qualify for new loans at
lower interest rates. That’s a change from the years of the
housing boom, when homeowners used growing  home-equity  to
finance spending on  consumer goods .  Twenty-two percent of homeowners who refinanced in the
second quarter paid money to reduce their principal, the third-
highest rate since Freddie Mac, the home-finance provider taken
over by the government, started keeping the records in 1985.  Mortgage Refinancing  Also, the net cash provided from converting home equity
through mortgage refinancing was $8.3 billion in the second
quarter, the lowest level in 10 years, according to the same
July report. That compares with an average of $80 billion per
quarter in 2006.  The cash generated by mortgage refinancing “will probably
remain relatively low for the next couple of quarters,” said
Frank Nothaft, chief economist at Freddie Mac in McLean,
Virginia. “Many families are taking this opportunity to
deleverage.”  Rates on 30-year fixed mortgages fell to 4.27 percent in
the week ended today, a record low, according to Freddie Mac.
The 30-year rate reached a 2010 high of 5.21 percent in April
and was 6.46 percent in October 2008, the month before the Fed
announced it would start purchasing mortgage-backed securities.  Lower home-loan rates may fail to spur additional
refinancing because lenders are reluctant to give loans to
people who are unemployed or have low credit scores, said Paul
Havemann, vice president at HSH Associates, a publisher of
consumer-loan data in Pompton Plains,  New Jersey .  Fed Action  “We know the Fed is going to be doing something,” said
David Rosenberg, chief economist at Gluskin Sheff and Associates
Inc. in Toronto.  “The question is, in a cycle of contracting credit, how
far will it work,” he said. “If taking rates to zero didn’t
work, and if QE1 didn’t work, then the question, legitimately,
is QE2 going to work?”  Quantitative easing refers to large-scale asset purchases
as a tool of monetary policy. Bernanke has said the purchases
support growth by lowering borrowing costs across a broad
spectrum of debt as investors reallocate money they would
normally invest in Treasuries into mortgage bonds, corporate
notes, and other securities.    Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , says $1 trillion in Fed Treasury
purchases will boost growth by about 0.15 percentage point next
year. As growth picks up, more people will enter the  labor
force , keeping the unemployment rate high. Inflation remains
relatively unchanged in his model, he says.  Help Needed  “It is a small but meaningful benefit and the recovery can
take all the help it can get,” Zandi said. Because purchases
could have such a low medium-term impact, Fed officials may
recast the strategy in terms of aiming at a level on an
inflation index rather than the rate of change on the index,
Zandi said.  The Fed “really doesn’t have any alternative but to give
this thing a whirl,” former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley , now
senior economic adviser at Potomac Research Group in Washington.
“It has a mandate to create maximum employment and price
stability. It has to try.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  