-- Betfair IPO Share Price Range Values Company at as Much as $2.4 Billion
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-10-07T08:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/betfair-ipo-share-price-range-values-company-at-as-much-as-2-4-billion.html
Betfair Group Ltd., which enables
bettors to wager against each other online, set the price range
for its proposed London share listing, giving the company a
value of as much as 1.48 billion pounds ($2.4 billion).  The indicative price range for the initial public offering
on the London Stock Exchange is between 11 pounds and 14 pounds
a share, Betfair said in a Regulatory News Service statement
today. That gives a market value of 1.16 billion pounds to 1.48
billion pounds, which would make Betfair eligible for the FTSE
250 index, the London-based company said.  Betfair provides a medium for bettors to wager between
themselves over the Internet, rather than with a bookmaker. The
company receives commissions on all winning bets, usually of
between 2 percent and 5 percent.  Last month, Betfair said that it was planning to list
shares to help its international development. The company’s 14
biggest investors, including founders  Andrew Black  and Edward Wray , will sell at least 10 percent of the shares in an offering
to financial institutions.  The company’s 14 biggest shareholders own about three-
quarters of the shares. A group of around 600 others,
representing 25 percent of the stock, have the option to sell
their shares at the listing.  The betting exchange, whose biggest investor is Japanese
telecommunications company  SoftBank Corp. , doesn’t plan to raise
any new money.  Goldman Sachs International  and  Morgan Stanley  are acting
as joint sponsors and bookrunners for Betfair’s offering.
Barclays Capital and Numis Securities Ltd. are co-lead managers.  Betfair’s revenue has risen at least 10 percent every year
since the company was founded in 2000, climbing 13 percent to
340.9 million pounds in the year ended April 30. Profit fell
last year as the company began a 25 million-pound investment in
its betting platform over three years and ramped up marketing
for the soccer World Cup.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Chris Spillane  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  