-- BHP Says Jansen to Pay C$90 Billion of Royalties in Canada While Operating
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-10-07T21:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/bhp-says-jansen-to-pay-c-90-billion-of-royalties-while-operating.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.  said its Jansen
potash project in Saskatchewan will contribute about C$90
billion ($88.5 billion) in royalties during the mine’s lifespan,
of which 65 percent will go to the provincial government.  BHP, which is offering to acquire  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.  for $40 billion, was responding to a report
released Oct. 4 that was commissioned by Saskatchewan. The
report said the Canadian province stands to lose C$2 billion of
taxes over 10 years if the world’s largest mining company
acquires Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp. and takes
advantage of tax deductions from its proposed Jansen
development.  “In future years when Jansen starts to operate and such
deductions have been utilized, the reverse occurs and the
province receives more taxes than it would have otherwise,” BHP
said today in an e-mailed statement.  The Conference Board of Canada, an independent researcher
of economic and public policy issues, said this week in a report
that BHP’s offer for Potash Corp. would have “few” negative
effects for Saskatchewan apart from lost tax revenue. Potash
Corp. said on Oct. 5 that the report understates the expected
negative impact of the takeover on Saskatchewan tax receipts.  The province said it will use the study in its submission
to a review of BHP’s offer under the Investment Canada Act,
under which the federal government can block transactions if it
finds they don’t provide a “net benefit” to the country.  Economic Boost  BHP said today it expects Jansen will employ about 4,200
workers at the peak of construction and create the equivalent of
2,900 full-time jobs in the province from direct, indirect and
spinoff employment.  “The transfer of a large number of highly paid management
jobs from Illinois, USA to Saskatchewan is also likely to
materially increase the Province’s tax receipts,” BHP said in
the statement.  Potash Corp. fell 48 cents to $140.90 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have risen 30
percent this year. BHP is offering $130 a share for Potash Corp.  BHP  fell  15 pence to 2,122 pence in London trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 