-- BMW F-1 Engineers Shift Race From Ferrari to Electric Vehicles
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-10-07T22:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/bmw-recycles-ex-formula-one-racing-engineers-to-develop-electric-engines.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  engineer
Jochen Schroeder used to spend his days trying to beat Ferrari
on the streets of Monte Carlo. Now, he’s chasing Nissan,
Chevrolet and Mitsubishi models in the electric-car race.  Schroeder, 39, spent three years developing electronic
components for 220 mile-per-hour Formula One cars until BMW’s
decade-long engagement in the racing circuit ended last
November. BMW dropped out of Formula One to free up resources
for electric-car development, redeploying 50 engineers to
maintain its lead as the world’s largest maker of luxury autos.  “The technology we’re developing for BMW is pretty similar
to Formula One,” Schroeder, who leads a team of engineers
developing electric powertrain components, said in a telephone
interview. “You just don’t see it every week on TV.”  Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  is pushing an
electric-powered car called the Megacity Vehicle to meet
emissions regulations. The maker of BMW, Mini, and  Rolls-Royce 
vehicles is building a $100 million factory near Seattle to 
make carbon fiber, the same material used in Formula One autos, 
for the frame of the new electric car.  BMW , whose middle name literally means “motors,” is
developing the electric engines for the vehicle in-house, as it
seeks to hang onto its roots in drivetrain technology even when
emphasis shifts away from the combustion engine.  BMW’s ‘Heart’  “The drivetrain is and will remain the heart of an
automobile, and this goes for electric vehicles too,” said
 Klaus Draeger , BMW’s development chief. “And the drivetrain is
and will remain a core competence of BMW. That’s why we’re
developing the propulsion system for the Megacity Vehicle
ourselves.”  Building electric motors in-house may mean more for BMW’s
image than the performance of the car, said  Alastair Bedwell , an
analyst with J.D. Power & Associates in Oxford, England.  Daimler AG, the maker of Mercedes-Benz, is buying motors
for the current limited production run of the electric-powered
Smart from Zytek Automotive in the U.K. At the same time, it is
building electric motors for hybrids at a factory in Berlin. The
company will decide later whether to build the motors itself or
purchase them, spokesman  Matthias Brock  said.  “It’s possible to buy the motors from the shelf,” Bedwell
said. “There are not likely huge leaps to be made in terms of
electric motor development.”  Formula One Team  Including Schroeder, BMW employed over 300 people on its
Formula One team. Aside from electric vehicle development, the
workers have been redeployed to other areas, including
production, purchasing and the motorcycles unit, BMW spokesman
 Michael Rebstock  said.  While Schroeder and his fellow ex-Formula One engineers no
longer have the weekly events to showcase their work, the
strategic importance of creating electric vehicles has replaced
the adrenaline kick of race day, he said.  “After the initial surprise of exiting Formula One, the
reception to the new task was very positive,” said Schroeder.
“The prospects are very exciting.”  Only four engineers from Schroeder’s 50-person Formula One
crew opted to be reassigned to other BMW racing teams, with the
rest following him back to the  parent company . Most are now
developing electric motors, batteries and electronic systems for
hybrids and the Megacity, which is due to hit showrooms in 2013.  The systems, similar to technology introduced to the racing
circuit in 2009 that allow cars to have 80-horsepower electric
motors for added acceleration, provide an extra challenge when
built for everyday use.  Cheaper Parts  “In Formula One, you only have two cars and the components
only have to last a weekend,” Schroeder said. “For serial
production, the components have to be cheaper and last 15
years.”  BMW’s move to redirect Formula One resources comes as
 Mercedes , the world’s second-largest luxury-car maker, stumbles
in its effort to boost the brand’s sportiness by intensifying
racing activities. The Stuttgart, Germany-based automaker last
year coaxed champion  Michael Schumacher  out of retirement. The
former-Ferrari driver, who won a record seven Formula One
championships before quitting in 2006, is now in 10th place.  BMW last November agreed to sell its Formula One team back
to founder  Peter Sauber  after the team’s  Nick Heidfeld  placed
fifth in the season finale. The move was an about-face for BMW
after earlier touting the racing circuit’s benefits.  Beating Competition  The team’s best performance under  BMW  was a second-place
finish in 2007 after another team was penalized for possessing
confidential Ferrari data. Sauber’s team is currently ranked
eighth on the racing circuit.  Schroeder and his colleagues are still looking to beat the
competition. Instead of taking on Ferrari on the racing circuit,
it’s General Motors Co.’s Chevrolet Volt,  Nissan Motor Co. ’s
Leaf and Mitsubishi Motors Corp.’s i-MiEV on city streets.  “Understanding the tight interplay between motors,
batteries and control electronics can help set you apart from
the competition,” Schroeder said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 