-- Bogdanka, Enea, PGE, PKO, Richter May Move: Central Europe Equity Preview
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-10-07T06:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/bogdanka-enea-nwr-pko-shares-may-move-central-european-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in central European
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names.
Share prices are from the last close.  Poland’s  WIG20 Index  fell 0.1 percent, the Czech  PX Index 
rose 1.2 percent and Hungary’s  BUX Index  added 0.8 percent.  Enea SA  (ENA PW): Poland’s Treasury Ministry received four
bids for its 51 percent stake in the country’s third-largest
utility. The government will shortlist two bidders for further
talks on Oct. 12, the ministry’s spokesman  Maciej Wewior  said,
without naming the investors. Enea fell 0.8 percent to 22.05
zloty.  Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA  (LWB PW): Aviva Powszechne
Towarzystwo Emerytalne SA, a Polish pension fund and the biggest
single shareholder of Bogdanka, said the coal mine’s share value
is “significantly higher” than the one proposed in  New World
Resources NV ’s (NWR CP) acquisition offer.  A rival pension fund, Amplico Powszechne Towarzystwo
Emerytalne SA, which owns a 5.1 percent stake in the mine, said
the current market price fails to reflect Bogdanka’s “real
value.” Bogdanka surged 20 percent to 107 zloty and NWR added
3.6 percent to 218 koruna.  PGE SA  (PGE PW): Poland is offering as many as 187 million
shares, up to a 10 percent stake, in the nation’s biggest power
utility, according to terms of the sale obtained by Bloomberg
News. PGE shares dropped 1.9 percent to 22.5 zloty.  PKO Bank Polski SA  (PKO PW): Poland’s largest bank doesn’t
rule out sale of five-year bonds in euros this year as the
situation on the debt market is stabilizing, the PAP newswire
reported, citing Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Bartosz Drabikowski . PKO shares fell 1.9 percent to 45 zloty.  Gedeon Richter Nyrt.  (RICHT HB): Hungary’s biggest
drugmaker said it bought PregLem Holding SA for as much as 445
million Swiss francs ($462 million). Richter declined 0.4
percent to 46,980 forint.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Marta Waldoch  in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  