-- Bond Distress at 5-Month Low as Junk Rallies: Credit Markets
-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-10-08T15:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/bond-distress-drops-to-5-month-low-as-junk-rises-above-par-credit-markets.html
The percentage of corporate bonds
considered in distress fell to a five-month low as record sales
of high-yield debt and declining borrowing costs convince
investors the riskiest companies can pay their lenders.  The number of speculative-grade companies worldwide with
yields at least 10 percentage points more than  government bonds 
declined to 290, or 12 percent of the total, the lowest share
since April and down from 15.9 percent at the end of August,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Junk-rated borrowers globally sold a record $98.9 billion
of bonds last quarter as investors sought higher relative
yields, helping the weakest companies shore up their balance
sheets. Defaults by high-yield issuers fell to 4 percent last
month from 6.2 percent in June, Moody’s Investors Service said
yesterday.  “There’s a tremendous yield hunger that isn’t satisfied
and that’s pushing up the prices in all the bottom-tier names,”
said  Margaret Patel , who oversees about $1 billion of assets as
a fund manager at Wells Fargo & Co. in  Boston . “If you want  capital appreciation , there’s only an ever shrinking universe to
get that sort of yield.”  Investors poured $480.2 billion into debt mutual funds in
the two years ended in June, more than went into stock funds
during the Internet bubble, according to the Washington-based  Investment Company Institute .  Deutsche Bank Offering  Debt sales, distressed exchanges and other lending has
helped high-yield companies push out their maturities, slashing
the amount of bonds and loans they have coming due between 2011
and 2013 by 26 percent to $281.4 billion since last year,
according to Bank of America data.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt fell 1 basis point to 170 basis points, or 1.7
percentage points, the lowest since May 13, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields averaged 3.391 percent.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 1.6 basis points to 96.71 basis points as of 11:43 a.m. in  New York , according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.
That’s the lowest since May 3.  The index typically declines as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Junk Bond Sales  At least $13.2 billion of junk bonds have been sold this
month, bringing the global total to an all-time high of $263.5
billion, 26 percent higher than the full-year record set in
2009, Bloomberg data show. Junk bond sales in the U.S. have
reached $208.9 billion this year, the data show.  “This is obviously a case of too much money chasing too
few good bonds,” said Don Ross, who helps oversee $9.5 billion
of assets as global strategist for Titanium Asset Management
Corp. in  Cleveland . “It’s just money changing hands and
corporations being the net gainer by being able to issue cheaper
and have better balance sheets. In the long run that will help
the economy, but holy mackerel, at what cost?”  U.S.  junk bonds  yield 430 basis points more than
investment-grade debt, compared with 216 basis points in June
2007 before the credit crisis, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. Prices of the speculative-grade securities have
climbed to 101.82 cents on the dollar from as low as 55 cents in
December 2008. The bonds reached face value last month for the
first time since June 2007.  Investors put $2.6 billion into distressed debt funds in
the first half of the year, according to Hedge Fund Research
Inc. in  Chicago .  ‘Very Nice Opportunities’  U.S. distressed bonds have returned 16.3 percent in 2010,
following gains of 117 percent in all of 2009, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High-Yield Distressed Index. The
entire market for high-yield bonds is up 13.7 percent.  “We are finding very nice opportunities in the secondary
market,” said Marvin Barth, chief investment strategist at
Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC in  Santa Monica ,  California .
“We’re having a great opportunity to originate very nice deals
for us that pay very high rates of return and also help these
companies grow.”  Tennenbaum, which had been seeking about $1 billion to buy
distressed debt, also lends directly to “middle-market”
companies that don’t have as much access to capital markets,
Barth said on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness.”  The percentage of distressed securities rose as high as
16.1 percent in May from a 22-month low in April of 9.2 percent,
as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis led investors to flee the
riskiest assets, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Falling Default Rate  Moody’s forecasts the global corporate default rate will
fall to 2.7 percent by year-end, dropping to 2 percent by the
third quarter of 2011.  “Defaults have plunged,” said Patel, who manages Wells
Fargo’s Advantage Diversified Capital Builder Fund and Advantage
Diversified Income Builder Fund. “The credit markets have been
extremely favorable. Some companies that have been borderline  credit quality  have been able to refinance.”  Moody’s said in an Oct. 4 report that it raised the
speculative-grade liquidity ratings of eight companies in
September compared with four cuts, the 17th month in a row in
which upgrades outpaced downgrades.  ‘Within Shouting Distance’  Investors are demanding an extra 606 basis points to own
junk bonds rather than government debt, the lowest since May 5,
five days before the European Union announced a $1 trillion
bailout of its most indebted nations, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global High-Yield Index. Absolute yields
fell to 7.83 percent yesterday from this year’s high of 9.62
percent on June 10.  High-yield spreads in the U.S., which fell yesterday to 613
basis points, are “within shouting distance” of the historical
average of 598 basis points, a milestone that doesn’t indicate
the market has “run too far too fast,”  Martin Fridson , global
credit strategist at BNP Paribas Asset Management, said Oct. 6
in an e-mail.  The default rate implies a spread of 484 basis points,
wrote Fridson, who is based in New York and began his career as
a corporate debt trader in 1976.  “Investors are being well compensated for risk and talk of
a bubble in high-yield bonds is misguided,” Fridson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bryan Keogh in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  