-- Bond Yields Lowest on Record to Stocks Revive IPO Market: Russia Credit
-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-10-07T21:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/bond-yields-lowest-on-record-to-stocks-revive-ipo-market-russia-credit.html
The lowest-ever yields on Russian
bonds compared with stocks are spurring the biggest wave of
initial public offerings since before the credit crisis as
investors seek higher returns from equities.  Dollar bonds sold by Russian companies  yielded  5.41 percent
yesterday, an all-time low, down from an average of 20.4 percent
in October 2008, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
index. The 30 stocks in the  Micex Index  provided an 11.3 percent
equity yield, or 2.2 times the level from bonds, the highest
ratio in the eight years since Bloomberg began compiling the 
data. The multiple was 0.7 times in December 2009.  The relative value gap, which is twice the  ratio in Brazil 
and three times that in China, may help make equities more
attractive to investors. Companies from steelmaker OAO Severstal
to retailer O’Key Group plan as much as $2.5 billion of share
sales by yearend, the biggest quarter for Russian stock
offerings since 2007.  “There has been too much of a brainless rush into fixed
income,” said  Eric Kraus , the head of strategy at Otkritie
Financial Corp. in Moscow. “The market is at a crossover. At
some point you have to think about equities.”  Record-low interest rates globally and rising commodity
prices have helped spur demand for fixed-income assets from the
world’s biggest energy exporter. Russian corporate bonds in
dollars gained 14.6 percent this year, beating the 14.5 percent
advance for JPMorgan’s Corporate EMBI Index.  Equities Lag  Equities have lagged behind other emerging markets.
Russia’s Micex Index, which  tumbled  9.7 percent in the second
quarter, is down 4 percent from this year’s high on April 15.
The index’s 7.2 percent gain this year trails the 11 percent
advance for the MSCI Emerging Markets index.  “The problem has been that international investors view
Russia as a derivative of global growth,” said  Chris Weafer ,
chief strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow.  The Micex has the highest earnings yield among the largest
emerging markets, or the so-called BRIC nations of Brazil,
Russia, India and China. Russian stocks trade at a 44 percent
discount to the MSCI China Index and Brazil’s Bovespa Index, 57
percent below India’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index and
42 percent less than the  MSCI Emerging Markets index , data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Share Sales  Food retailer O’Key expects to raise as much as $500
million from a London IPO by the end of the year, according to a
banker involved in the deal for the Moscow-based company,
Vedomosti reported Oct. 6. London-based Petropavlovsk Plc,
Russia’s third-largest gold producer, plans to raise about $300
million by selling shares in its iron-ore unit in Hong Kong this
month, Chairman  Peter Hambro  said on Oct. 5.  Severstal, Russia’s largest steelmaker, is considering
selling shares this year in its gold unit, the company said in a
statement. The listing could be worth about $1 billion,
according to a banker with knowledge of the transaction.  Severstal  has an estimated earnings yield of 9.5 percent,
based on the average of 10 analysts’ forecasts for 2011 earnings
tracked by Bloomberg. That compares with a yield of 5.3 percent
on the Moscow-based company’s dollar debt due July 2013.  OAO Mostotrest, the Moscow-based bridge builder, is selling
shares equal to about 25 percent of the company, it said in a
statement Oct. 6. The company is valued at $2.1 billion to $2.5
billion, Interfax reported, citing TKB Capital, which is helping
organize the offering.  ‘Upside’  “Investors may be looking at equities more because they no
longer see any upside for debt instruments,” said  Nikolai Podguzov , head of fixed-income strategies at VTB Capital in
Moscow. “The liquidity we are seeing on the market could feed
into these new IPOs.”  Mostotrest’s decision to offer shares rather than bonds was
a “logical step in the company’s development,” Chief Executive
Officer  Vladimir Vlasov  said in a telephone interview. The
company expects to complete the share sale to Russian and
European investors in November, he said. “The crisis is to
blame for the fact that we haven’t done it earlier,” Vlasov
said. “Now the markets have recovered and we think this is a
timely proposal.”  Russian companies sold a record 577 billion rubles ($19.4
billion) of domestic debt and $16.6 billion of international
securities this year, compared with $4.7 billion in new share
issuance, UralSib’s Weafer said. Weafer, who had predicted
Russian companies may raise $20 billion from share sales this
year before scaling back his forecast to $10 billion in June,
now estimates the total at $7.5 billion.  Balance Sheets  While companies “need to raise equity to repair their
stretched balance sheets,” investors will be more cautious
after losses from IPOs so far this year, Weafer said.  OAO Protek, the Moscow-based drug wholesaler, has dropped
45 percent since its April IPO. OAO Russian Sea Group raised $90
million in its IPO in April, less than the $174 million
initially intended, after setting its price at the bottom of the
$6 to $8 per share range. The Moscow-based company’s shares have
tumbled 58 percent since the offering.  “Theoretically most of the market should be switching out
of fixed income based on the implied yields, which is many times
higher than the bond market,” said  Michael Kart , who helps
manage about $1 billion in stocks at Marshall Spectrum Ltd. in
Moscow, including about $100 million of Russian equities in
Russia and the former Soviet Union. “The appetite for Russian
equities is still relatively low. You have to be highly
selective about investing in Russia IPOs and do a lot of due
diligence. Some people lost a packet of money in IPOs earlier
this year.”  Ruble Gains  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.299 percent
yesterday, the lowest level since they were sold in April. Gains
in the country’s ruble notes due August 2016 reduced the yield
14 basis points to 7.16 percent.  Investors cut the extra yield demanded on Russian debt over
U.S. Treasuries by two basis points to 221, according to
JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares with 159 for
debt of similarly rated Mexico and 200 for Brazil, which is
rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 52 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps declined 0.7 basis point
to 145.5 yesterday, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost 0.8 basis point more than contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The ruble gained 0.7 percent to 29.6850 per dollar
yesterday, its strongest level since May 4. Non-deliverable
forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of
currency movements and interest rate differentials and allow
companies to hedge against currency movements, show the ruble at
30.0026 per dollar in three months.  “There are a large number of companies waiting in the wings
and all the drivers for IPOs which were there last year continue
to hold true, said Moscow-based Hasnen Varawalla, the head of
corporate finance at Renaissance Capital, in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  