-- Boom-to-Bust Blame Lies With Europe's Watchdogs: Paul De Grauwe
-- B y   P a u l   D e   G r a u w e
-- 2010-10-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/boom-to-bust-blame-lies-with-euro-watchdogs-commentary-by-paul-de-grauwe.html
It’s time for Europe’s monetary
authorities to take responsibility for what goes on in the
economies of member states that share the euro.  The key to understanding the euro debt crisis lies in
diverging macroeconomic movements in the region during the last
10 years. Southern euro-area countries, plus Ireland,
experienced bubbles in their real-estate markets, while the
northern member states had slow economic growth. When the boom
turned into bust in some countries, their governments had to
pick up the pieces, leading to huge budget deficits and debts.  Where do these macroeconomic divergences come from? It is
often said the source of the boom-and-bust dynamics in countries
like Spain, Greece and Ireland was the decline in real  interest
rates  after their adoption of the euro. This triggered a boom in
consumption and a bubble in the housing markets.  This doesn’t explain everything.  Italy  enjoyed a decline in
real interest rates after the introduction of the euro, yet it
didn’t experience a boom. Another explanation may be animal
spirits, or the waves of optimism and pessimism that in a self-
fulfilling way drive economies.  The euro area is far from integrated. A few years ago,
“Angst” prevailed in Germany while bursts of optimism exploded
in Greece, Spain and Ireland. Today, optimism drives the German
recovery and pessimism rules in the once-booming countries. So
euro-member states are still independent nations creating their
own animal spirits.  Wage Increases  This has caused diverging competitiveness over the last
decade. The optimism in peripheral countries led to economic
booms that triggered wage-and-price increases. A few years of
such  prosperity  were enough to make prices and wage costs
inconsistent with the rest of the region.  If booms and busts and the ensuing movements in prices and
wages are the result of animal spirits that continue to have a
national origin, what can be done about it? Do governments have
the tools to deal with this? They surely have some. Budgetary
policies can be used as an anti-cyclical instrument. But they
are very constrained, mainly because the decision-making process
underlying these policies makes them less than flexible.  There is another aspect that tends to reduce the capacity
of national governments to deal with local cycles. Booms are
most often correlated with domestic credit expansion, which can
be lethal in combination with bubbles (especially in housing
markets). This was seen in Spain and Ireland, where increases in
bank credit helped cause property prices to soar.  Monetary Solutions  Any policy aimed at stabilizing national economies must
also be able to control local credit creation. It is clear that
because the euro-member states have entered a currency union,
they lack the instruments to deal with this. If economies are
driven by credit-fueled animal spirits, the only tools that can
effectively deal with this are monetary ones.  Members of the euro have relinquished these instruments to
European monetary authorities. So can institutions such as the
European Central Bank help out national governments? We have
been told this is impossible because the ECB should only be
concerned with system-wide aggregates. It can’t be responsible
for national economic conditions because it has one objective:
the maintenance of  price stability  in the region as a whole, and
because it has only one instrument to achieve this goal.  ECB Focus  This is too cheap an answer. The ECB isn’t only responsible
for price stability, but also for financial stability. The debt
crisis that erupted in the euro area last year had its origins
in a limited number of countries. It is, therefore, important
that the ECB focuses not only on aggregates, but also on what
happens in individual nations.  Excessive bank-credit creation in some member countries
should also appear on the radar screens of the ECB in Frankfurt.
Some say the ECB can’t deal with this throughout the euro area.
This is not so. The euro system has the technical ability to
restrict bank loans in some countries more than in others by
applying differential minimum-reserve requirements, or by
imposing anti-cyclical capital ratios. These can and should be
used as stabilizers at the national level.  The euro system is partly to blame for bubbles in national
housing markets and the associated increases in private debt.
Better governance in the euro area should not only focus on the
responsibilities of national governments, but also on those of
the European monetary authorities, like the ECB.  ( Paul De Grauwe  is a professor of economics at the Catholic
University of Leuven, Belgium. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Paul De Grauwe  at  Paul.DeGrauwe@econ.kuleuven.be   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  