-- Bose Versus Sonos in Wireless Music Face-Off: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2010-10-07T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/bose-versus-sonos-in-wireless-music-face-off-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Can you put a price tag on mystique?
When it comes to wirelessly accessing the music on your computer
around your home, the answer is: $150.95.  That’s the approximate difference between the ZonePlayer S5
from  Sonos Inc.  and the SoundLink Wireless Music System from
 Bose Corp. , known for its pricey Wave radios and CD players. Both
Sonos and Bose give you rich sound from a single box, with no
receiver, amplifier, stereo cables or iPod dock required. Both
are easy to set up and use. While the Sonos costs $399, the Bose
comes in at $549.95.  To be fair, price isn’t the only difference, and your
choice may come down to what’s more important to you. If it’s
expandability, Sonos is the way to go; if it’s portability and
simplicity, the Bose may be worth the higher price.  The basic  SoundLink  system consists of the speaker and a
small transmitter -- Bose calls it a key -- that plugs into a
USB port of the computer where you store your music or access
Internet radio. There’s no software to install: All you do is
change a setting on your computer. Nor do you need a home Wi-Fi
network; the transmitter and speaker create their own,
independent connection.  The entire set-up process took me less than 20 minutes, and
only that long because I placed the speaker upstairs from the
computer, and had to run the steps a few times. Bose estimates
the transmitter’s range at 60 feet: I did better than that, even
with the floor in between.  Minimalist Approach  The SoundLink comes with a chunky power adapter, but it is
really made for mobility. The unit has an internal, rechargeable
lithium-ion battery that can last for three hours or more
between charges; an extra one costs $89.95. And it weighs only
4-1/2 pounds, making it easy to move from room to room. The
SoundLink comes with a minimalist remote control; if you’re an
iTunes user with an  Apple Inc.  mobile device and a Wi-Fi
network, you can use Apple’s free Remote app instead.  As an added benefit, the SoundLink has an auxiliary port
allowing you to directly connect an mp3 or CD player. And while
no all-in-one system can offer the kind of stereo separation you
get in a multi-speaker set-up, the Bose provides remarkably good
sound.  If the SoundLink has a weakness, it’s that you’re limited
to one remote speaker per computer. Want music in the living
room but the SoundLink is in the den? You’ll have to pick up the
speaker and take it with you.  The Sonos, by contrast, is considerably less transportable
-- it’s twice as heavy, and requires a power outlet -- but it
allows you to build a system throughout your home for much less
than a conventional hard-wired set-up.  Multiple Music Rooms  The  ZonePlayer  is also a little more complicated than the
Bose. There’s software to install, and if the room you want
music in doesn’t happen to be the one where your wireless router
lives, you’ll also need a $99 device called a  ZoneBridge  that
connects to the router and spreads the signal throughout your
home.  On the other hand, you can have ZonePlayers in many rooms.
Even better, each one can be playing something different --  John Mayer  in the bedroom, the Beatles in the kitchen and Cee Lo
Green in the basement. And if you’ve got the dough, you can even
put two ZonePlayers in the same room and program one to act as
the left stereo channel, and the other as the right.  To control all that, Sonos will sell you a dedicated
controller for $349, but you’d be nuts to buy it. That’s because
the company makes free, awesome apps for the  iPhone and iPod
Touch , and the  iPad . It’s so good that if you don’t have an
Apple mobile device, it’s worth your while -- to say nothing of
more cost-effective -- to buy a $229 iPod Touch in order to run
it. And of course, when you aren’t using it to control your
ZonePlayer, you can use the device for many other things.  Using Your Speakers  Both companies offer options if you want to use audio
equipment you already own. Sonos’s $349 ZonePlayer 90 connects
to any existing amplified audio source, such as a home theater;
the $499 ZonePlayer 120 provides its own amplification. And Bose
sells $150 upgrade kits that allow some of its Wave music
systems to access music on the computer as well.  Between the ZoneBridge, extra rooms and controller, the
Sonos price tag can escalate rapidly. And as near as I can tell,
no one will ever mistake a Bose product for a budget solution.
But while true audiophiles may sniff in disdain, if what you’re
after is lush sound from your digital music library where and
when you want it, both Bose and Sonos deliver.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  