-- BP Considered Quitting Gulf Well Days Before Blast
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-10-07T20:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/bp-considered-abandoning-well-before-rig-blast-that-caused-gulf-oil-spill.html
BP Plc  considered quitting its
Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico days before the drilling-rig
explosion that killed 11 workers and caused the biggest offshore
oil spill in U.S. history.  A team of engineers and technicians based in BP’s Houston
office discussed suspending drilling and abandoning the project
during a conference call in mid-April, Greg Walz, an engineer
for London-based BP, said in testimony today to a  federal panel 
investigating the blast.  The possibility of quitting the project was part of a
broader discussion of what sort of well design to use, he said.
Walz was questioned for more than three hours by the panel about
a disagreement he had with a BP colleague over whether to employ
a larger number of safety devices when lining the well with
cement.  “We had contingency plans in place in case anything went
wrong,” Walz told the U.S. Coast Guard and Interior Department
joint investigation team probing the April 20 explosion aboard
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig. Walz was the drilling team
leader on the project and helped design the well.  Engineers also were confused over the procedures for
conducting a pressure test aboard the drilling rig to determine
whether the steel pipe inside the well was fully sealed from the
surrounding oil-soaked rock, said Walz, a 30-year veteran of
offshore drilling who joined BP in 2000.  BP and the rest of the oil industry need to develop
standard guidelines for how to conduct and interpret the
pressure tests conducted during the final stage of completing a
well, Walz said.  Cost Overruns  The eight-member panel is holding a fifth round of hearings
this week in Metairie, Louisiana, into the catastrophe on the
rig, owned by Transocean Ltd.  Walz told the panel he was aware the Macondo project was
over budget and taking longer than expected, though he didn’t
know by how much. The panel released internal BP documents
yesterday that showed the project cost $154.5 million, 61
percent more than planned.  Four days before the well erupted, Walz advocated more than
tripling the number of centralizers used to keep the well’s
metal casing pipe centered while cement was poured around the
sides, according to an April 16 e-mail between Walz and  John Guide , BP’s wells team leader on the project.  Failure to use more centralizers left the well susceptible
to “severe gas flow potential,” a report to BP by Houston-
based  Halliburton  Co. warned that day.  More Centralizers  Walz told the panel today that he directed another BP
employee to have 15 additional centralizers shipped to the rig
from Houston by helicopter to augment the six centralizers the
company originally planned to use.  Guide objected to using the extra centralizers, saying they
were not of the design described by Walz, according to the e-
mails. Walz told the panel today that once he heard Guide’s
concerns, he concurred that the centralizers could be difficult
to retrieve from the hole if the pipe got stuck on its way down
and had to be removed.  An internal investigation by BP last month found that Guide
and Walz were mistaken about the design of the centralizers that
were shipped to the rig. Using fewer centralizers increased the
risk of gaps in the cement, according to the Sept. 8 report.  The centralizers “likely did not contribute” to the
cement’s failure to prevent gas from surging to the surface, BP
said in the report.  Hours From Finish  BP was hours away from finishing the well 40 miles (62
kilometers) from the Louisiana coast when explosive gas surged
up from beneath the sea floor and set the rig ablaze. The rig,
which sank two days later, was leased to BP for about $500,000 a
day.  The well, which tapped a geologic formation estimated to
hold 50 million barrels of crude, spewed enough oil into the sea
to fill two supertankers before it was capped on July 15. Deep-
water exploration in the U.S. section of the Gulf of Mexico has
been halted since a federal moratorium was imposed in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Metairie at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Cox at   acox3@bloomberg.net . 