-- Brazil's September Consumer Prices Rise Most in Five Months on Food Costs
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-10-07T14:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/brazil-consumer-prices-rose-0-45-in-september-annual-rate-rises-to-4-7-.html
Brazil’s inflation quickened to the
fastest pace in five months in September as food  prices  pushed
the annual rate above the government’s target.  Consumer prices  as measured by the benchmark IPCA index
rose 0.45 percent in September from August, the government’s
statistics agency said.  Prices  rose 4.70 percent from a year
earlier. The readings were in line with the median estimates of
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  After  raising interest rates  by 2 percentage points this
year, the central bank held its benchmark Selic rate unchanged
at 10.75 percent on Sept. 1, saying it was adequate to keep
inflation on target. The central bank will see today’s figure as
confirmation of its view that short-term inflation is being
driven by a temporary surge in food prices, said  Solange Srour ,
chief economist in Rio de Janeiro at BNY Mellon ARX.  “If quicker inflation in the short term doesn’t
contaminate expectations, the central bank will continue to hold
rates for some time,” Srour said in a phone interview.  Today’s report showed that after three straight months of
deflation, food prices jumped 1.08 percent in September from
August.  Policy makers forecast inflation will slow to 4.6 percent
next year. Brazilian economists predict the  IPCA  will end 2010
and 2011 above the government’s 4.5 percent target, according to
a weekly central bank survey of about 100 analysts published
Oct. 4.  Higher Estimates  The IPCA index may rise 5.07 percent this year and 4.92
percent in 2011, the survey showed. Economists have raised their
estimate for year-end 2010 inflation in each of the past three
weeks.  The rebound in inflation last month doesn’t warrant a
reaction from the central bank, since it doesn’t have “monetary
roots,” Moody’s said in a report distributed today.  “Tighter monetary policy will be ineffective and will only
depress domestic demand unnecessarily,” the report said. “Even
worse, a higher interest rate will aggravate the currency
revaluation, which seems to be the policy makers’ new
headache.”  Interest rates are already high enough to stop the economy
from overheating, the report said.  Yields on interest rate future contracts fell. The yield on
the contract due January 2012, the most traded on the Sao Paulo
BM&F futures exchange, fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 11.39 percent at 10:15 a.m. New York time.  Inflows, Prices  The real gained 0.1 percent to 1.6777 per dollar. Brazil’s
currency jumped to a two-year high of 1.6632 on Oct. 4 as
Japan’s unexpected interest-rate cut and a weakening dollar
added to the allure of emerging-market assets.  The real has gained 38 percent against the dollar since the
end of 2008, the third-best performance among the most-traded
currencies after the Australian dollar and South African rand.  Yields on Brazil’s longer-term bonds are rising at the
fastest pace in three months versus shorter-term debt as the
government boosts taxes on foreign investment to curb gains in
the real.  Traders expect policy makers to raise the benchmark Selic
rate to 12 percent by September 2011, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate futures contracts.  Brazil’s gross domestic product grew 1.2 percent in the
three months ending in June from the previous quarter, cooling
from a 2.7 percent expansion in the first quarter.  GDP jumped 8.8 percent from a year ago compared with a 9
percent expansion in the first quarter that was the fastest pace
in 15 years. The central bank estimates Latin America’s biggest
economy will grow by 7.3 percent this year.  Industrial  production  unexpectedly shrank 0.1 percent in
August from July, as a stronger real weighed on exporters and
re-stocking tailed off.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  