-- Brazil Ends Loophole on Higher Tax for Futures Trades by Foreign Investors
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-10-21T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/brazil-closes-loophole-on-higher-tax-for-foreign-fixed-income-investment.html
Brazil’s government closed a
loophole on a recently raised tax on foreigners’ investments in
the country’s derivatives market.  The new rules ban Brazilian financial institutions,
including banks and brokerages, from renting, lending or
swapping assets to foreigners seeking to invest in the futures
market, the Monetary Council said in a statement last night.  The new rules don’t affect existing transactions with a set
maturity date, though those without one must be terminated by
Dec. 31, Sergio Odilon, a central bank official in charge of
implementing the new rules, told reporters in Brasilia.  Brazil’s government on Oct. 18 boosted for the second time
this month a tax on foreign capital inflows that pushed the real
to a two-year high. The government raised to 6 percent, from 4
percent, the so-called IOF tax foreign investors must pay to
purchase fixed-income assets. It also raised the tax on foreign
investors’ margin deposits for futures markets to 6 percent from
0.38 percent.  BM&F Bovespa SA, the owner of Latin America’s largest
exchange, will block banks from issuing guarantee letters for
foreign clients seeking to trade in the derivatives market,
Odilon said.  Profits from bets in the futures market that are reinvested
there or used to buy fixed-income assets are exempt from the IOF
tax, Odilon said.  The real has gained 38 percent to 1.6775 per U.S. dollar
since the beginning of 2008, the second best performer after the
Australian dollar among currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  