-- Breyer Says Supreme Court Doesn't Have Pro-Business Slant
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/breyer-rejects-the-notion-that-u-s-supreme-court-has-a-pro-business-bias.html
Justice  Stephen Breyer  rejected the
notion that the  U.S. Supreme Court  has a pro-business slant and
said the court doesn’t rule in favor of companies any more
frequently than it has historically.  “I looked back,” he said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in which he discussed his new book. “I couldn’t find
a tremendous difference in the percentage of cases. They’ve
always done pretty well.”  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce won at least a partial victory
in 13 of the 16 cases in which it filed a brief during the court
term that concluded in June. The business trade group has won at
least half its cases every year for more than a decade.  Breyer also said that partisan politics doesn’t influence
the court’s actions, even in cases with political ramifications,
including the decision this year that allowed unlimited
corporate and union campaign spending, and the Bush v. Gore
ruling that decided the 2000 presidential election.  “I don’t see that politics,” Breyer said. “It would be
bad if it were there. And I don’t see it.”  The 72-year-old Breyer, who was appointed by Democratic
President  Bill Clinton  in 1994, serves on a court that now may
split along party lines in some high-profile cases.  The five Republican appointees all were in the majority in
the campaign finance case, known as Citizens United v. Federal
Election Commission.  Of the four Democratic appointees now on the court, three
were in dissent, and the fourth, Justice  Elena Kagan , had
defended the spending limits when she was the Obama
administration’s top Supreme Court advocate. Kagan joined the
court in August and took the bench this week for the start of
the new term.  Colleagues Defended  The campaign finance ruling has unleashed a wave of
corporate contributions to outside groups and may boost
Republican chances to seize control of Congress in the November
elections. In the first four weeks of September alone,
Republican-leaning groups spent more than $33 million to sway
congressional elections, more than the Democratic and Republican
congressional fundraising committees combined.  Breyer, who dissented in the ruling, defended his
colleagues’ motives in the case even as he criticized their
reasoning.  “They were remaining consistent with a long-held view,”
he said. “Now, that isn’t a Republican, Democratic political
view. That is a view of the nature of law. I think it was
wrong.”  ‘Pragmatic Approach’  In his book, “ Making Our Democracy Work : A Judge’s View,”
Breyer argues for a pragmatic approach toward the law, one that
focuses less on the specific words of the Constitution and
statutes than on the purpose behind them and the likely
consequences of the court’s ruling. He contrasts his approach
with originalism, Justice  Antonin Scalia ’s method of
interpreting the Constitution in accordance with its meaning at
the time of adoption.  In the interview, Breyer said originalism “has something
to it.” At the same time, “there’s an old tradition in
American law, even older than what Justice Scalia thinks his
tradition is old as,” Breyer said.  “American judges, when they interpret the law, are prudent
and pragmatic,” Breyer said. “They look for purposes. And
they’re careful.”  Breyer said the court would benefit from having a justice
with experience in electoral politics. The court hasn’t had a
former elected official since the 2006 retirement of Justice
 Sandra Day O’Connor , a one-time state legislator.  “At the same time, there’s only one vacancy every so
often,” Breyer said. “And so a president has to make
decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 