-- Buffett-Signed Copy of `Intelligent Investor' Book Sells for $25,250
-- B y   V i v e k   S h a n k a r
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/buffett-signed-copy-of-intelligent-investor-sells-for-25-250.html
A book on investing that is the only
first-edition signed by billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  sold
at auction yesterday for $25,250 in San Francisco.  Mitch Julis , founding partner of Canyon Partners LLC in Los
Angeles, bought the copy of  Benjamin Graham ’s “ The Intelligent
Investor ,” signed by Buffett, Graham’s former protege. It
listed for $3.50 when it was published in 1949.  “It’s something tangible you give to your kids if they are
ever interested in investing,” Julis said. “It’s a show-and-
tell story.”  The book helped pioneer the concept of value investing and
provided a road map for Buffett, who invested in out-of-favor
stocks to become the third-richest man in the world. Buffett
attended Graham’s Columbia University classes and worked for him
at Graham-Newman Corp., a New York-based investment fund that
closed in the late 1950s.  “I read the first edition of this book early in 1950, when
I was 19,” Buffett wrote in the  preface  to the fourth edition
of the book in 1973. “I thought then that it was by far the
best book about investing ever written. I still think it is.”  Buffett signed the copy after  Patrick Wolff , co-founder of
the San Francisco-based Excellence in Investing for Children’s
Causes Foundation, requested his help. For more than a decade,
Wolff, a chess grandmaster, has simultaneously played multiple
exhibition games blindfolded at Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.  annual shareholder meeting in Omaha, Nebraska.  “Warren told me he doesn’t remember ever signing a first
edition of this book before so I take that as prima facie
evidence that this is the only one,” said Wolff, who is also an
executive at Clarium Capital Management LLC in San Francisco.
 Carrie Kizer , Buffett’s assistant, confirmed Wolff’s account.  Negotiating Price Down  The  foundation  bought the book for a price it won’t
disclose after negotiating it down from $25,000 from New York-
based B & B Rare Books Ltd., said Wolff, who personally owns
Berkshire shares. The proceeds of the auction will be donated by
the foundation to organizations including Oakland, California-
based Leadership Public Schools, which prepares children from
low-income urban neighborhoods for college.  Buffett, 80, is worth an estimated $45 billion, according
to Forbes magazine. He built a stock portfolio valued at almost
$55 billion as of June 30. Berkshire is the  largest investor  in
such companies as Wells Fargo & Co., American Express Co. and
Coca-Cola Co.  Buffett, Berkshire Hathaway’s chairman and chief executive
officer, has promised almost all his wealth to philanthropy. He
plans to add a personal inscription to his signature in the copy
of “The Intelligent Investor” that Julis bought, auction
organizers said.  Graham, who also co-wrote “ Security Analysis ,” died at 82
in 1976. “Intelligent Investor” is currently available from
HarperCollins Publishers as a revision to the fourth edition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vivek Shankar  in San Francisco at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at   jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  