-- Buffett Shuns Buyout Funds, Says `They Don't Know the Business'
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-11-12T17:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/buffett-avoids-buyout-firm-purchases-says-they-don-t-know-the-business-.html
(Corrects verb in quote to ‘love’ in headline and second
paragraph of story published Oct. 8)  Warren Buffett ,  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. ’s billionaire chairman, said he avoids acquiring companies
from leveraged-buyout firms because they focus on “exit
strategy.”  “We have an entrance strategy,” he said in pre-recorded
remarks broadcast yesterday at a San Francisco conference for
the  International Corporate Governance Network , a London-based
nonprofit whose members include institutional investors. Buyout
firms “don’t love the business,” he said.  Buffett, 80, built Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire into a
 $205 billion  provider of insurance, energy and consumer goods
through four decades of stock picks and takeovers. He looks for
companies with durable competitive advantages and leaves their
managers in charge. He said he prefers to retain former owners
after acquisitions, and let them run the business, because they
have a “passion” for the company and “know it well.”  “I look in their eyes and see if they love the money or
love the business,” Buffett said. “Everyone likes money,” he
said. “We count on people loving the business.”  Buffett oversees chief executive officers running more than
70 Berkshire units, including car insurer Geico Corp., power
producer MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. and underwear maker
Fruit of the Loom. Buffett, who doesn’t enforce a mandatory
retirement age at Berkshire, says he avoids interfering with his
managers.  “I give them their own paint brush,” Buffett said.  No Deals With Buyout Firms  Buffett spent $27 billion buying railroad Burlington
Northern Santa Fe this year, telling  Charlie Rose  in an
interview in November that Berkshire would hold the firm for a
century. Buffett told employees of CTB Inc., the farm-products
provider he bought in 2002, that Berkshire would own the unit
“forever.”  Private-equity firms pool investor money to take over
companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt, with the
intention of selling them later for a profit.  Blackstone Group
LP , led by Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman , 63, is the biggest
private equity firm, followed by Carlyle Group.  “We haven’t bought a single company from an LBO
operator,” Buffett said.  KKR, Goldman Deal  Berkshire and Leucadia National Corp. teamed up last year
to buy a loan-servicing and mortgage business from a bankrupt
lender partly owned by private equity firm KKR & Co. and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. The joint venture, Berkadia Commercial Mortgage
LLC, agreed to pay more than $400 million for the assets of
Capmark Financial Group Inc.  “We are impressed by the existing management team,”
Buffett said in a December statement announcing the completion
of the Capmark deal. “We are optimistic about the prospects for
these businesses.”  KKR, Goldman Sachs, Dune Capital Management LP and Five
Mile Capital Partners LLC bought 78 percent of Capmark, then
called GMAC Commercial Mortgage, in 2006 for $1.5 billion in
cash and the repayment of $7.3 billion of debt.  Buffett, who also serves as Berkshire’s CEO, typically
shuns debt and funds his takeovers with cash or stock. Berkshire
has the second-highest  credit rating  at Standard & Poor’s and
the third-highest at Moody’s Investors Service.  Buffett’s remarks at the conference were recorded within
the last four to six weeks, according to Tina Chande, head of
events for ICGN. He was interviewed by  Nell Minow , co-founder of
the Portland, Maine-based Corporate Library, which researches
governance issues.  ‘Embarrass’ Directors  Buffett urged shareholders to challenge directors when
companies perform poorly. His annual letters to Berkshire
shareholders often contain musings on corporate governance and
accounting best practices. He has said public-company boards too
often defer to CEOs and fail to provide adequate oversight.  “The best way to affect the behavior of board members is
to embarrass them,” Buffett said. “If boards aren’t performing
their function, then a few major shareholders holding them
accountable will help.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 