-- Bullish Chesapeake Options Should Be Bought, MKM Says
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-07T20:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/buy-chesapeake-options-before-analyst-event-mkm-partners-says.html
Investors should buy bullish
 Chesapeake Energy Corp.  options because the second-biggest
producer of U.S. natural gas may provide positive drilling data
at its analyst meeting next week, MKM Partners LP said.  Options strategist  Jim Strugger  recommended buying November
$23 calls on the second-biggest producer of U.S. natural gas,
which will host its 2010 analyst  meeting  on Oct. 13. Chesapeake
shares fell 0.5 percent to $22.48 as of 4 p.m. in New York. The
stock lost 13 percent this year.  Strugger cited MKM analyst  Curtis Trimble , who “believes
the meeting could provide a catalyst for the shares” if
management provides a progress report on drilling activity in
the Denver-Julesburg Basin and updates on other projects, the
Stamford, Connecticut-based strategist wrote in a note to
investors today.  Chesapeake  is accelerating drilling for oil and gas
liquids, which are more valuable than dry gas at current prices,
and the company has bought mineral leases in Niobrara, an oil
and liquid gas rich area in the Denver-Julesburg Basin of
Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska and Wyoming.  The company said in August that it planned to raise as much
as $3.5 billion from asset sales to fund drilling and cut debt,
and it sold future natural gas output to a Barclays Plc
affiliate earlier this month, raising $1.15 billion in
 Chesapeake’s  eighth such cash-raising sale since December 2007.  Strugger also said stabilizing or rising natural prices as
colder weather is approaching may drive Chesapeake shares
higher. Natural gas futures have dropped more than 30 percent
this year on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Natural-Gas Prices  Societe Generale SA said in a report that the deal with
London-based  Barclays  signals natural-gas prices are set to
extend their declines.  This “highlights a consensus outlook for a bearish market
amid high production for a few years ahead,”  Laurent Key , a
natural gas analyst at Societe Generale in New York, wrote.  The calls, which today traded at 76 cents, will make money
if the stock price goes higher than $23.76 by Nov. 19.
Chesapeake is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings Nov. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  