-- California Refinances $1.8 Billion as Demand for Power Bonds Cuts Yields
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-07T00:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/california-refinances-1-8-billion-as-demand-for-power-bonds-cuts-yields.html
California  completed its sale of $1.8
billion in tax-exempt debt, dropping yields from preliminary
levels as much as 0.05 percentage point after individual
investors placed orders for more than half the offering.  The California Department of Water Resources sold
securities with yields from 0.29 percent on debt maturing in May
2011 to 2.94 percent for bonds due in May 2020, according to
data from  Joe DeAnda , a spokesman for Treasurer  Bill Lockyer .  The 10-year bonds were offered only to institutional buyers
and were priced to yield 30 basis points more than AAA debt,
according to an index from Municipal Market Advisors, a Concord,
Massachusetts-based research company. Retail investors placed
orders for 58 percent of the debt, or $1.05 billion in
securities, DeAnda said.  “Investors realize it’s a solid credit and that it’s
separate from the state,” said  Kelly Wine , a senior underwriter
at Encino, California-based RH Investment Corp.  Sales to institutional investors, such as mutual funds and
insurance companies, were moved to today because of the demand
from retail investors and favorable market conditions, DeAnda
said. Tax-exempt bond yields fell at every maturity today,
according to data from MMA.  California, the lowest-rated U.S. state, entered a record
fourth month without an enacted budget last week. While the
state can’t sell debt without a final spending plan, agencies
still can,  Bud Byrnes , chief executive officer at RH Investment,
said earlier this week.  Fund Uses  The state is using the money to help pare costs on debt
residents are still paying for the energy crisis in 2001 and
2002, when electricity prices jumped as traders manipulated the
market. The state bought electricity on behalf of privately
owned utilities that couldn’t pass along the cost to customers,
paying for it with $11 billion of debt in 2002.  The water resources department, based in Sacramento,
regulates and manages the state’s water usage. It sold $2.9
billion in tax-exempt revenue bonds in May, the largest offering
of its kind this year. During that sale, retail investors bought
almost 43 percent of the bonds. Lockyer increased the size of
that sale from $2 billion because of demand from investors, who
placed orders for more than half of the original amount.  Ten-year securities from that sale traded Sept. 27 at an
average yield of 2.73 percent, or 12 basis points above top-
rated debt, compared with a premium of  45 basis points  on the
sale date, according to MMA data. A basis point is 0.01 of a
percentage point.  March Sale  The state sold $2.5 billion in general obligations in
March, pricing 11-year bonds to yield 4.54 percent, which was
 144 basis points  above a comparable-maturity index of AAA debt
from MMA. The securities traded Sept. 24 at an average yield of
3.44 percent, or 69 basis points above the index.  The water bonds have a higher rating than the state’s
general obligations, which carry an A1 grade from Moody’s
Investors Service, because they’re backed by revenue from
consumer electricity bills. The securities are rated Aa3 by
Moody’s and AA- by Standard & Poor’s, both fourth-highest
investment grade, compared with AA by Fitch Ratings, one level
higher.  A portion of the department’s sale also will end interest-
rate swap agreements, according to a Sept. 24 Fitch report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at +1= 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 