-- Canadian Dollar Declines From a Five-Month High Before Employment Reports
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-10-07T20:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/canadian-dollar-falls-from-five-month-high-after-building-permits-tumble.html
Canada’s dollar declined from a five-
month high versus its U.S. counterpart before employment reports
in both countries that may reveal relative economic conditions
of the partners in the world’s largest bilateral trade
relationship.  The Canadian currency weakened against 15 of its 16 most-
traded counterparts after building permits in August fell more
than four times as much as expected. The loonie, as the currency
is nicknamed, has strengthened 4.5 percent since hitting a six-
week low Aug. 31 amid speculation that other central banks will
continue to ease monetary policy as the Bank of Canada remains
on hold. U.S. weekly jobless claims unexpectedly decreased in
the latest week.  “The main driver of the Canadian dollar are emanating from
the U.S. and commodities as the better-than-expected U.S. data
is taking some pressure off the dollar and commodities have
stabilized some after their recent run-up, both of which weigh
on the loonie,” said  Paul Ferley , assistant chief economist at
Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto. “There is still nervousness in
financial markets about the recovery and tomorrow’s data in
Canada and the U.S. will be key in providing some clarity.”  Canada’s dollar weakened 0.7 percent to C$1.0177 per U.S.
dollar at 4:47 p.m. in New York, compared with C$1.0111
yesterday. It touched C$1.0078, near the strongest level since
April 30 and traded as weak as C$1.0212. One Canadian dollar
buys 98.26 U.S. cents.  Slow Build  The total value of permits issues by municipalities
decreased 9.2 percent to C$5.75 billion ($5.69 billion),
Statistics Canada said in Ottawa. The decline was the largest
since February 2009, and exceeded the most pessimistic
projection in a Bloomberg News survey of 11 economists, which
had a median forecast of a 2 percent drop.  Applications for U.S. unemployment benefits dropped by
11,000 to 445,000 in the week ended Oct. 2, the fewest since
July 10, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.
The median forecast or 47 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected 455,000 new claims last week.  Canadian employers are forecast to have added 10,000 jobs
more jobs in September, the eighth gain in the past nine months,
a report from Statistics Canada will say tomorrow, according to
the median estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S. employment data due tomorrow from the Labor Department
are forecast in separate Bloomberg surveys to show overall
payrolls lost 5,000 jobs last month and that the unemployment
rate rose to 9.7 percent, from 9.6 percent in August.  Past Parity  The loonie reached parity with the greenback April 6 for
the first time since July 2008 based on the prospect of higher
interest rates and stronger economic growth than in the U.S.  “As Canada nears parity, the market becomes more cautious,
which slows further rallies as there are economic considerations
that come further into view,” said  Eric Lascelles , chief rates
strategist and economist at Toronto-Dominion Banks’s TD
Securities unit in Toronto. “The Canadian dollar is not fully
partaking in the weak U.S. dollar story the way that other
currencies are.”  Canada will auction C$3 billion ($2.9 billion) of 2-year
notes on Oct. 13. The 1.5 percent securities mature in December
2012. Bonds due in two-years issued by Canada yielded about 97
basis points more than Treasuries, nearly triple the 10-year
average of 35 basis points more.  The Bank of Canada raised its benchmark rate to 1 percent
on Sept. 8, its third straight increase. Last week, Governor
 Mark Carney  said further increases “would need to be carefully
considered” given risks of a renewed U.S. slowdown and cooling
consumer spending in Canada.  “The Bank of Canada’s tightening cycle seem to be
sidelined,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at Bank of
Montreal in Toronto. “The prospect of more easing here is very
low compared to the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  