-- SABMiller Hasn't Approached Castel on Beer Unit Sale
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2010-10-07T10:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/castel-s-beer-unit-denies-it-s-in-talks-with-sabmiller-over-african-assets.html
SABMiller Plc , the world’s second-
biggest brewer, has made no approach to buy  Groupe Castel’s 
African beer business, according to the unit’s chief financial
officer.  “There aren’t any talks,” said  Guy de Clercq , CFO of Les
Brasseries & Glaceries Internationales, or BGI. He was
responding to a report in the London-based Times newspaper that
SABMiller is in discussions to buy the Castel unit for more than
6 billion pounds ($9.6 billion). SABMiller declined to comment.  Shares of the London-based brewer  rose  8 pence, or 0.4
percent, to 2,000 pence at 10:30 a.m. U.K. time.  SABMiller, which makes beers including Grolsch and Peroni,
holds a 20 percent stake in BGI. The brewer gets about 30
percent of its revenue from Africa, including South Africa, its
home market. SABMiller is working with JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
study Foster’s Group Ltd.’s beer unit, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said in September.  “Africa outside South Africa has the potential to be a
major contributor of growth for SAB, but at the moment the
region still accounts for a relatively small proportion of group
profits,”  Jonathan Fell , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
London, said in a note yesterday. “Acquiring Castel would place
the region on a par with Latin America for SABMiller in terms of
volumes and profitability, with higher growth potential.”  Joint Venture  SABMiller, founded as South African Breweries, swapped a 38
percent stake in its African unit for 20 percent of Castel in
2001 to expand in the continent outside South Africa. The
companies also invest in the region through a joint venture.  Africa “is likely to make a larger contribution to volume
growth over the medium term” than China and Latin America,
according to Deutsche Bank, which cited lower consumption rates
and a probable increase in population and economic growth.
SABMiller derives about 40 percent of  profit  from Latin America.  SABMiller’s sales slid 1 percent in the first quarter, hurt
by “poor economic conditions” in Europe, the company’s second-
largest market. Brewers are looking to expand in developing
markets including Africa and Latin America to combat sluggish
growth prospects in the U.S. and Europe.  Castel, a family controlled French business which owns wine
distribution chain Nicolas, “already contributes the lion’s
share of profit” for SABMiller in Africa, according to the
Deutsche Bank note. “In our view the strategic rationale for
acquiring the Foster’s beer business, of comparable size to
Castel’s beer operations, is much less compelling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 