-- Centola Said to Lead UBS Investment Bank in Brazil
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2010-10-07T17:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/centola-said-to-join-ubs-as-brazil-head-of-investment-bank.html
Eduardo Centola  is joining  UBS AG  as
head of investment banking in Brazil from  Standard Bank Group
Ltd. , where he was chief executive officer for the Americas, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Standard Bank named  Fernando Negri  acting CEO in Brazil,
the Johannesburg-based lender said today in a statement. Negri
will retain his role as head of global markets for the Americas,
the bank said. CDN, a Sao Paulo-based public relations firm for
UBS, declined to comment for Switzerland’s biggest bank. The
person with knowledge of Centola’s hiring declined to be
identified because the appointment hasn’t been formally
announced.  Centola, 42, joined Standard Bank in February 2009 from
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., where he was co-head of the
investment-banking team. He started at New York-based Goldman
Sachs in 1999 as co-head of Latin America’s mergers and
acquisitions unit and headed the mergers group for leveraged-
buyout firms. Prior to Goldman Sachs, Centola was at Merrill
Lynch & Co as co-head of M&A.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, is rebuilding its
investment bank in Brazil after selling its local Pactual unit
in April last year for $2.5 billion, less than three years after
buying the bank, to raise capital. UBS, the European bank with
the highest losses from the credit crisis, will compete with
firms including Banco BTG Pactual SA and Goldman Sachs, which
are expanding in Brazil as growth in Latin America’s biggest
economy fuels M&A and private-equity deals.  Foreign Investment  “I expect foreign investment banks to move more
aggressively in Brazil now,”  Alberto Kiraly , head of investment
banking at Banco Votorantim SA, the financial-services unit of
Grupo Votorantim, said today in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo.  UBS started a wealth-management unit in Brazil last month
and in April acquired the Brazilian brokerage firm Link
Investimentos to gain access to licenses for doing business in
the country. Fernanda Pasquarelli, executive director of asset
management at UBS in Brazil, said last month the bank is
considering acquisitions.  UBS ranks 13th among underwriters of equity and equity-
linked offerings by Brazilian companies this year, down from
10th last year and seventh in 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  Valor Economico, the Sao Paulo-based newspaper, reported
earlier today Centola was hired by UBS to run its Brazil unit,
citing unnamed people in the banking industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho in Sao Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  