-- CFTC to Review Computer Trades Behind May 6 Stock Plunge for Swaps Reform
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-10-07T16:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/cftc-to-review-computer-trades-behind-may-6-stock-plunge-for-swaps-reform.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission will examine how computerized trading that led to the
May 6 stock market plunge should affect regulatory reform of the
derivatives market mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, according to
an e-mailed statement from the CFTC.  On Oct. 12 the commission’s technology advisory committee,
reconstituted in May after a five-year hiatus, will discuss the
role high-frequency and algorithmic trading practices played in
the 20-minute rout that briefly erased $862 billion in equity
value. The meeting will take place in Washington.  A futures trader’s routine attempt to hedge losses on May 6
helped set off a chain of events that sent the Dow Jones
Industrial Average down as much as 998.50 points, regulators
said in a report on Oct. 1. Two people with knowledge of the
findings by the Securities and Exchange Commission and CFTC
identified the firm as  Waddell & Reed Financial Inc ., an
Overland Park, Kansas-based mutual-fund company with about $68
billion in assets.  “As the commission focuses on new manipulation and
antidisruptive trading practices in the Dodd-Frank rulemakings,
the events of May 6, 2010, are equally informative as to the
role of technology in the futures and swaps markets,” the CFTC
statement said.  Financial Crisis  U.S. lawmakers sought to regulate swaps through the Dodd-
Frank bill passed in July after the trades complicated efforts
to solve the financial crisis. In most cases regulators have
until July 2011 to write the new guidelines, which mandate that
most interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps be processed
by clearinghouses after being traded on exchanges or swap-
execution facilities.  In addition to the May 6 plunge, discussions will focus on
the role of technology in providing public information about
trading interest in swaps and other products before and after
transactions occur, the CFTC statement said. This is called pre-
trade and post-trade transparency. CFTC staff will also discuss
current rules being considered and how technology may affect the
collection of swaps and derivatives data.  The May 6 trade of 75,000 of  CME  Group Inc.’s E-mini
futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was executed with an
algorithm that had no regard for prices or timing, according to
regulators’  findings . Instead, the computer program aimed to
represent 9 percent of the market’s volume. The speed of the
sale drove stocks down and prompted market makers and high-
frequency trading firms that facilitate the majority of
transactions to curb business out of concern they were receiving
incorrect or incomplete data, intensifying the crash.  Disorderly Markets  Regulators will consider whether brokers and traders should
face new rules for handling orders in an electronic market, CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a speech in Washington on Oct. 4.
A lesson of May 6 is that a large sell order executed in an
automated fashion in a volatile market can set off trading
algorithms and result in disorderly markets, he added.  “Should executing brokers have to adopt certain trading
practices when executing a large order by use of an algorithm,
such as price or volume limits?” he said. “Should they have an
obligation to monitor and make non-disruptive trading
judgments?” He also asked whether those obligations should
apply to customers executing their own trades.  “While I do not believe that the flash crash was the
direct result of reckless misconduct in the futures market, I
question what the CFTC could have done if the opposite were
true,” commissioner  Scott O’Malia  said in the CFTC statement
today. “When does high-frequency or algorithmic trading cross
the line into being disruptive to our markets? Who is
responsible when  technology  goes awry?”  The meeting will explore whether the CFTC should treat
“rogue algorithms” like rogue traders, O’Malia said. Andrei
Kirilenko, a senior financial economist at the CFTC, will also
present a paper he co-authored about May 6 that discusses the
impact of high-frequency trading on an electronic market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 