-- Chicago's McCormick Place Operator Borrows $1.12 Billion to Cut Debt Costs
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/chicago-s-mccormick-place-operator-borrows-1-12-billion-to-cut-debt-costs.html
The Chicago-based operator of North
America’s biggest exhibition and meeting center borrowed $1.12
billion in the week’s second-largest municipal bond sale to cut
costs and win back its spot as the top trade-show destination.  The  Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority ’s McCormick
Place convention center, which has been losing trade shows to
Las Vegas and Orlando, Florida, borrowed to reduce expenses by
restructuring debt and extending maturities, and to expand a
Hyatt hotel. Yesterday’s sale, backed by a state sales tax and
local taxes, was the authority’s largest since a $1.5 billion
issue in June 2002.  “By restructuring, we don’t have to draw from the state
and can save it money,” said  Richard Oldshue , chief financial
officer, in an interview. “It relieves pressure from the
state’s sales-tax revenues.”  McCormick Place generates $8 billion in economic activity,
including 62,000 jobs and $250 million in state and local tax
revenue, according to offering documents. Chicago faces a $654.7
million deficit in a $3.39 billion budget for 2011. The
authority also operates Navy Pier, a 50-acre entertainment
complex with shops, restaurants, parks and other venues on Lake
Michigan that is the state’s top tourist attraction.  U.S. state and local governments are poised to borrow $13
billion this week, the most since the period ended Dec. 11,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The borrowing cost on
 10-year top-rated municipal  bonds fell by 5 basis points
yesterday to 2.64 percent, according to data from Municipal
Market Advisors. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Union Labor  McCormick Place has lost major trade shows in recent years
because of its lease rates and the cost of union labor, said
 Laurence Geller , chief executive officer of Chicago-based
Strategic Hotels & Resorts Inc., a real estate investment trust
that owns and manages luxury hotels including the Fairmont and
InterContinental in Chicago.  With legislation passed earlier this year, the state, which
runs McCormick Place with the city, put in new leadership,
relaxed rules requiring union workers at trade shows and
provided additional sales-tax backing for new bonds to
restructure debt to help the center lure more conventions.  “Without those reforms, Chicago can’t compete directly
with Las Vegas and Orlando,” said Thomas Spalding, vice
president at Nuveen Investments Inc. in Chicago, where he
manages $60 billion of municipal bonds. “It’s one of those
economic engines of the area.”  By selling bonds the authority is trying to bring its debt-
service schedule in line with tax revenue, which has fallen amid
the worst recession since the 1930s, and the loss of conventions
to more competitive cities, Standard & Poor’s said in a Sept. 28
report.  Maturities Extended  Maturities on $918 million of debt will be extended to an
average of 37 years from 10 years, Moody’s Investors Service
said. About $200 million will be used to finance a 450-room
expansion of a Hyatt Regency hotel next to McCormick Place.  Declining revenue prompted the authority to turn to the
state for a subsidy to help cover debt payments during the past
three years. The authority will repay $57.2 million borrowed
from the state, according to bond-offering documents.  The bonds are secured by local taxes on hotel stays,
restaurant meals and car rentals, along with revenue from the
facilities. The new bonds will come with an additional state
sales-tax pledge, subject to appropriation by lawmakers.  S&P awarded the new issue its top AAA rating, citing the
debt’s state backing. It won AA- from Fitch Ratings, its fourth-
highest grade, and A2 from Moody’s Investors Service, the sixth-
highest level.  “Based on the environment we’re in, investors look at an
issue more like an A2 bond than a AAA bond and that’s why
spreads are wider,” said Tom Boylen, managing director and
municipal bond trader at BMO Capital Markets in Chicago.  The authority cut its borrowing costs by pushing down
yields, said Oldshue. The 40-year maturities yielded 4.98
percent to 5.23 percent, which is 65 basis points to 90 basis
points over the 4.33 rate for top-rated 40-year bonds.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  CITY OF LOS ANGELES wastewater system, which serves more
than 4 million people, will borrow $450.7 million next week,
including $186.7 million in taxable Build America Bonds and $80
million in taxable Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds. The
securities will be used to finance construction and improvement
of the wastewater collection and treatment system and refinance
outstanding debt. Underwriters led by Siebert Brandford Shank &
Co. will market the issue to investors, which is rated Aa2 by
Moody’s and AA by S&P, both third-highest, one level below the
AA+ grade from Fitch. (Added Oct. 7)  CITY OF CHICAGO will issue $251 million in Midway Airport
revenue bonds next week. The debt for the second-busiest airport
in Illinois behind O’Hare International will include $88
million in taxable Build America Bonds earmarked for
construction. Underwriters led by JPMorgan Chase & Co. will
market the securities, which carry ratings of A3 from Moody’s
and A- from both S&P and Fitch, all fourth above non-investment
grade. (Added Oct. 7)  UTAH  plans to sell $201 million in general obligation bonds
next week to refinance outstanding debt. The issue will backed
by the full faith and credit of the state. The securities, rated
highest by Moody’s, Fitch and S&P will be marketed by
underwriters led by JPMorgan. (Added Oct. 7)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;|
Alexandra Harris in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  