-- Chile May Reach Miners After Two Months Underground
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2010-10-07T19:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/chile-miners-may-be-reached-tomorrow-after-months-underground.html
Chilean officials drilling a hole to
reach 33 miners trapped half a mile underground have less than
100 meters (328 feet) to go following a two-month rescue effort.  “We expect to break through this Saturday,” Mining
Minister  Laurence Golborne , who arrived at the mine site
yesterday, said in televised remarks. “It’s important to
highlight that once we’ve broken through to the tunnels, the
rescue process still will take several days.”  One of three rescue shafts reached a depth of 550 meters
this morning, less than 100 meters short of where the miners
took shelter Aug. 5 when the mine collapsed, according to Geotec
Boyles Bros., which is digging the hole. Rescuers are advancing
at a rate of about two meters an hour, Golborne said.  State-owned  copper  producer Codelco,  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and
other mining companies assisted in what has become the world’s
longest-ever mine rescue. The 33 men, stuck for more than two
months underground, haven’t been told how close they are to
being freed to avoid disappointment if the operation is delayed.  Officials will decide whether to install a casing to
support the walls of the hole once drilling is complete,
Golborne said today. Rescue workers would need about eight days
to prepare the extraction if officials opt for the casing, he
said.  Rescuers will most likely decide to install a partial
casing before pulling out the men, said Enes Zepeda, a mining
engineer and director of the supervisors’ union at Codelco.  ‘Safety’ Concerns  “It makes sense to case the first 100 meters for safety
reasons,” he said today at a press conference in Santiago. The
union is recommending that rescuers do the additional work to
ensure the miners’ safety, even though the volcanic-rock walls
of the well appear to be stable, he said.  “The deeper it gets, the more complicated things become,”
Eugenio Eguiguren, international vice president of Geotec, said
yesterday in a telephone interview from Santiago.  The miners were trapped after an access tunnel caved in at
Cia. Minera San Esteban Primera SA’s San Jose copper and gold
mine in the Atacama region.  Golborne canceled a planned speech in London next week to
monitor the mine rescue, Cristian Leon, a spokesman at the
Chilean Embassy in London, said in a telephone interview today.  Contact With Miners  The miners’ only contact with the outside world has been
through small drill holes into which people on the surface pass
down food, water, medicine and games such as dominoes. Miners
were told yesterday that drilling had advanced; they weren’t
informed of the extent of the success, Andre Sougarret, the
chief engineer in charge of rescue operations, told reporters at
the mine.  Workers today are rehearsing parts of the rescue operation,
which will entail flying miners by helicopter from the mine to a
nearby hospital, Golborne said.  Health workers at the regional hospital in nearby city
Copiapo are setting aside two floors where the miners will be
examined and treated following their rescue, hospital director
Hernan Rojas said in a radio interview today.  Drilling was restarted early today after being stopped for
several hours to allow engineers to analyze the final segment to
be drilled.  Narrow Well  Once officials reach the trapped miners and give the go-
ahead to begin rescue operations, a tube 24 inches wide will be
lowered into the hole, which measures 26 inches at its narrowest
point, La Tercera newspaper reported yesterday. At 120 meters,
rescuers will have to navigate a sharp turn before the hole
drops straight down to the miners, the newspaper reported.  It will take about 90 minutes to rescue each man, Zepeda
said.  The technique of lifting workers from a man-sized hole
first proved successful in 1963 when David Fellin and Henry
Throne were pulled out of the Sheppton coal mine in Pennsylvania
after being trapped for 14 days. A similar rescue effort in 2007
at a coal mine in Crandall Canyon, Utah, ended in failure after
six miners and three rescuers were killed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  