-- China Day Ahead: Li & Fung Sees `Lot of Orders'; Shanghai Property Limits
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-07T23:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/china-day-ahead-li-fung-sees-lot-of-orders-shanghai-property-limits.html
Li & Fung Ltd. , the biggest supplier
to retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , said it expects “a
lot of orders” for next year as purchases boost its market
share.  “With the acquisitions we have done, outsourcing deals we
have done and the new business, next year looks very good,”
President  Bruce Rockowitz  said in a phone interview. “It looks
less and less likely that there will be a double-dip
recession.”  Shanghai Home Sale Rules  The Shanghai government plans to rein in the property
market by restricting new home purchases to one per household,
the city government said on its website. Other measures include
boosting land supply, introducing differentiated credit policies
and tax changes, the statement said.  ICBC (Asia) Arrest  An executive from  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
(Asia) Ltd.  and two other people were released on bail after
being charged in a bribery case brought by Hong Kong’s
Independent Commission Against Corruption.  Derick Chan Po-fui, 50, head of the corporate banking
department, and Chan Yick-yiu, 43, former head of real estate
and finance at the bank, were charged, the anti-graft agency
said in a statement. Zeng Wei, 47, a major shareholder of United
Win Holdings Ltd., was also charged, the ICAC said.  Yi Gang on Yuan  People’s Bank of China’s Vice Governor  Yi Gang  said his
country will do its part to help correct imbalances in the world
economy through a “gradual” appreciation of the yuan.  “We want to do our contribution,” Yi said at a press
conference at the International Monetary Fund in Washington.
“Our approach would be a gradual one.”  Embraer Pulls Out  Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA  will close an aircraft
factory in China, Brazil’s Estado news agency reported, citing
the company’s executive vice president of commercial aviation.  “The Chinese are going to start their own production in
2011 and they see us as competitors,” Embraer’s  Paulo Cesar de Souza e Silva  told Estado.  China-Italy Trade  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said they agreed to more than double trade
between their countries to $100 billion within five years.  “China’s economic growth is an extraordinary phenomenon
that we should take advantage of,” Berlusconi said at a joint
news conference with Wen in Rome.  Levin on Yuan Bill  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Sander Levin  said
prospects for U.S. legislation pushing China to raise the value
of the yuan depend on action by leaders at the Group of 20
meeting.  Lack of action by China in coming weeks to raise the value
of its currency may prompt the Senate to take up legislation the
House passed letting companies target imports from China to
counter the effect of a weak yuan, said Levin, a Michigan
Democrat.  Currency Pacts  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  dismissed chances of a return to the currency
accords of the 1980s and said the fund can help member countries
define policies that are coherent with a balanced recovery.  “I’m not sure the mood is to have a new Plaza or Louvre
accord,” Strauss-Kahn told reporters in Washington at the start
of the IMF’s annual meetings. The IMF has a role to play “to
have a better understanding of what should be done by each
party” and help foster “a consistent policy by the big
shareholders at the fund.”  Carbon-Trading Delays  China’s plan to begin carbon trading may be held up by
negotiations with cities and industries over how to set a limit
for emissions, China’s National Development and Reform
Commission said.  The Chinese government wants to begin a pilot program in a
single sector or city to test the impact of an emissions cap on
growth ahead of a possible nationwide move to carbon trading,
officials at China’s  top economic planner  said this week during
climate talks in Tianjin, northern China.  Saab Reentry  Saab Automobile, the Swedish carmaker owned by  Spyker Cars
NV , aims to start selling cars in  China , Russia, Brazil and
Mexico in the first half of next year, its sales chief said in
an interview.  Saab is negotiating with potential distribution partners in
the four countries and aims to reach agreements by the end of
the year,  Adrian Hallmark  said by phone.  MARKETS:  U.S. stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lower for a second day, as mining and energy companies fell
after commodity prices erased gains and PepsiCo Inc. led
consumer-staples shares lower.  Chevron Corp. and Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. paced
losses in commodity producers as a rebound in the dollar weighed
on oil and metals prices. PepsiCo tumbled 3.7 percent after
lowering the top end of its annual profit forecast. Marriott
International Inc. slumped 6.3 percent, the biggest decline in
the S&P 500, after the largest U.S. hotel chain missed earnings
projections.  The  S&P 500  dropped 0.2 percent to 1,158.74 at 3:22 p.m. in
New York. The index slipped yesterday after closing at the
highest level in almost five months on Oct. 5. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average lost 17.71 points, or 0.2 percent, to
10,949.94. The Dollar Index, which gauges the currency against
six major peers, rose 0.1 percent to rebound from its lowest
level since January.  THE FOLLOWING STOCKS MAY BE ACTIVE TODAY:  China Post E-Commerce Holdings Ltd . (8041 HK): The Internet
services company will raise a net HK$35.85 million through the
private sale of 180 million shares to  Senrigan Capital Group  Ltd.
at 20 Hong Kong cents each, the company said. The stock was
suspended.  China Southern Airlines Co.  (600029 CH): The carrier said
its board approved unit Xiamen Airlines’ purchase of 10 Boeing
aircraft. The shares added 1.2 percent to 8.28 yuan.  Huadian Energy Co.  (600726 CH): The company said it will
buy shares in three Heilongjiang-based power companies from
parent China Huadian Corp. The shares added 1.1 percent to 3.57
yuan.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  (601398 CH): The
world’s largest lender by market value said it received approval
from the China Banking Regulatory Commission for a rights offer
of A and H shares.  New World Development Co.  (17 HK): The real estate
developer said it will acquire a stake in landowner Hing Ying
Services Ltd. from connected investors for HK$1.865 billion. The
stock gained 0.7 percent to HK$16.82.  Shandong Molong Petroleum Machinery Co . (568 HK): The
petroleum machinery maker will issue 70 million A shares at 18
yuan apiece. The stock fell 1.6 percent to HK$10.92.  TLT Lottotainment Group Ltd . (8022 HK): The lottery-
services provider said it will pay HK$34.5 million, in cash and
54.2 million new shares, for a 51 percent stake in a company
that produces TV programs and live events in Macau and southeast
Asia. The stock fell 6.4 percent to 44 Hong Kong cents.  Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co.  (002202 CH):
China’s second-biggest maker of wind turbines said its Hong
Kong-listed shares will have their trading debut today. Goldwind
sold 395.3 million shares at HK$17.98 each, the top end of the
price range.  Zijin Mining Group Co . (601899 CH): China’s largest gold
producer said it was fined a less-than-expected 9.6 million yuan
($1.4 million) for a July acid-waste spill.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant at   bruceg@bloomberg.net . 