-- China May Accelerate the Appreciation of Yuan as Economy Slows, Panel Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-08T12:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/china-may-increase-pace-of-yuan-appreciation-as-pressure-grows-panel-says.html
China may increase the pace of
appreciation of the yuan as economic growth slows, panelists
said during a Bloomberg LP currency conference in New York.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said yesterday that China will stick to
its policy of gradually increasing the currency’s flexibility
and lashed out at European Union leaders for teaming with the
U.S. to pressure the Chinese government. The yuan has gained
about 2 percent versus the dollar since a June pledge to make it
more flexible. China held the yuan at about 6.83 per dollar two
years prior to shield its exporters from the global crisis.  “The China trade is quite attractive,”  Jens Nordvig , a
managing director of currency research in New York at Nomura
Holdings Inc., noting that the Chinese currency has weakened
against the euro the last five weeks.  “The pressure is going to be persistently maintained, the
rhetoric has clearly been stepped up and what the administration
doesn’t have full control over this potential trade war issue,”
Nordvig said yesterday in New York. “If the Chinese move this
currency too little they risk the political situation in the
U.S. running away from the administration itself.”  The yuan climbed 0.3 percent to 6.6715 against the dollar
and touched 6.6703, the strongest level since the central bank
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Slowing growth and rising inflation may allow the country
to allow their currency to rise, said  Larry Kantor , head of
research for Barclays Capital in New York.  Adjustment Process  “They are allowing more appreciation,” Kantor said
yesterday. “It looks like the deceleration in growth is over,
inflation looks like its picking up. It’s not a bad time to
allow for a little currency appreciation.”  Chinese inflation rose to 3.5 percent in August after
falling to negative 1.8 percent in July of 2008.  The nation has also signaled it’s not completely unwilling
to allow the currency to appreciate as People’s Bank of China’s
Vice Governor  Yi Gang  said his country will do its part to help
correct imbalances in the world economy through a “gradual”
appreciation of the yuan.  Still,  pressuring China does not guarantee results, and
could backfire, said  Robert Sinche , global head of foreign
exchange strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit in Stamford, Connecticut.  “Their adjustment process is to let wages go up, make
themselves less competitive, contribute to domestic demand,”
Sinche said yesterday in New York. “This has been a troubling
slap to them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas R. Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  