-- Yi Gang Says China Will Do Its Part With `Gradual' Approach on Yuan Value
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-10-07T17:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/china-s-yi-supports-gradual-yuan-appreciation-to-help-correct-imbalances.html
People’s Bank of China’s Vice
Governor  Yi Gang  said his country will do its part to help
correct imbalances in the world economy through a “gradual”
appreciation of the yuan.  “We want to do our contribution,” Yi said at a press
conference at the International Monetary Fund in Washington
today. “Our approach would be a gradual one.”  China has stiffened its opposition to a rapid appreciation
of the yuan, setting the stage for a confrontation over exchange
rates at this week’s meetings in Washington. Yi’s comments echo
those by Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  in Brussels this week, who
warned an increase of the yuan of between 20 percent to 40
percent would cause social upheaval.  “The Chinese feel pressured and are probably annoyed that
this dialog is taking place in public,” said  Robert Sinche ,
global head of foreign exchange strategy at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in Stamford,
Connecticut. “No doubt, both the Europeans and the Chinese
think currency stability is a good thing. The disagreement comes
in with the level of the exchange rate.”  China has capped the yuan’s gain at about 2 percent since
relaxing a dollar peg in June, leading to criticism that it is
stunting the recovery in the industrial world by shielding its
market from U.S. and European imports. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said this week that China’s nudge
to the yuan in the past months has been “not exactly what we
would have hoped ourselves.”  “I know still there are some pressures,” Yi said, adding
that over the past decade the yuan “has been moving toward
equilibrium level tremendously” both in nominal and inflation-
adjusted terms.  While policy makers will discuss exchange rates at their
Washington meetings, Yi said a “regional Plaza accord” is
“very unlikely,” referring to the 1985 agreement signed by the
then world’s five major economies to weaken the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
 Jana Randow  in Washington at  jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 