-- China Sold Most Japan Debt on Record in August
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2010-10-08T08:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/china-sold-a-net-24-3-billion-of-japanese-debt-in-august-ministry-says.html
China sold a record amount of
Japanese debt in August, snapping a seventh-straight month of
purchases.  China cut Japanese debt holdings by a net 2.02 trillion yen
($24.5 billion), the Ministry of Finance said today in Tokyo,
the biggest monthly sale in data going back to 2005. The larger
nation bought a record 735.2 billion yen of Japanese debt in May
and 1.04 trillion yen of the securities the following two
months.  “Today’s ministry report suggests China had purchased yen-
denominated assets not to diversify their foreign reserves but
to temporarily escape from the unstable financial situation in
Europe,”  Yasunari Ueno , chief market economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in Tokyo, wrote in a report today.  A sovereign credit crisis that prompted a $1 trillion
bailout for indebted European nations in May and signs of a
slowdown in the U.S. have driven gains in bonds and Japan’s
currency as investors sought a refuge. The yen reached a 15-year
high against the dollar yesterday.  Yields  on Japan’s 10-year
note were near the least in seven years, while those on U.S.
two-year debt were at a record low.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshito Sengoku told reporters
today he will talk to the Ministry of Finance to analyze the
impact from China’s sale. After data last month showed China was
on course for record purchases this year, Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  suggested that it was inappropriate for China to
buy Japan’s bonds without a reciprocal ability for Japanese to
invest there.  World’s Biggest Reserve  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, which manages
China’s foreign-exchange reserves, didn’t immediately respond to
a fax seeking comment.  China’s holdings of short-term debt decreased by 2.03
trillion yen and it bought 10.3 billion yen in long-term
securities, today’s data showed. Previous months had shown
increases in short maturity securities, and sales of bonds and
notes.  “There’s a chance that China is holding onto proceeds from
maturing short-term debt instead of reinvesting them,” said
 Junya Tanase , chief currency strategist in Tokyo at  JPMorgan
Chase  Bank.  China, which passed Japan in the second quarter to become
the second-biggest economy globally, almost tripled its holdings
of South Korean government bonds in the first nine months of
this year, a report from South Korea’s Financial Supervisory
Service showed on Oct. 4. China has the world’s largest foreign
reserves, standing at $2.45 trillion as of June 30, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Total Debt  Japan had 904 trillion yen in outstanding government bonds
and borrowings as of June, according to Ministry of Finance  data 
collected by Bloomberg. The nation sold 2.2 trillion yen in 10-
year bonds yesterday in a monthly auction, exceeding the figure
for China’s sales in August.  About 95 percent of Japan’s debt is held domestically,
which credit rating agencies have said supports the country’s
creditworthiness even as borrowings approach 200 percent of
gross domestic product.  The U.K. was the largest buyer of Japanese bonds in August,
with net purchases of 3.5 trillion yen. China was the biggest
seller among countries. It is still on course to increase
Japanese debt holdings by 297.6 billion yen, the most since a
255.6 billion yen increase in 2005.  “China may have taken a pause, but I don’t think it
changed its stance toward Japan’s policy and debt,” said  Akito Fukunaga , chief rates strategist in Tokyo at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc., Britain’s biggest government-owned bank.
“I expect them to keep buying Japanese debt bit by bit, as its
foreign reserves have expanded a lot.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Shigeki Nozawa  in Tokyo at 
 snozawa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  