-- Christie's Tunnel Move Agitates Commuters to New York
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z ,   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-08T14:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/christie-said-to-cancel-8-7-billion-hudson-river-commuter-tunnel-project.html
Chris Christie  got Mary Ellen
Daalder’s vote for governor of  New Jersey  in November. His
decision yesterday to kill a tunnel project meant to speed her
90-minute commute to Manhattan got him only her dismay.  Christie, a first-term Republican, pulled out of the so-
called Access to the Region’s Core  project , which would have
created an 8.8-mile (14.2-kilometer) conduit under the Hudson
River to double the number of commuter trains to New York at
peak times. Christie said the initial $8.7 billion cost might
have reached $14 billion and the state couldn’t afford it.  Daalder, a 45-year-old administrative assistant, travels
from Middletown, New Jersey, to Midtown. Christie “generally
does well,” she said while waiting at New York’s Penn Station.  “I agree with most of what he does, but not the tunnel,”
Daalder said. “That decision is horrible because the trains are
so crowded and we all need more access.”  The state will begin an “orderly wind-down” of the
project, Christie, 48, told reporters in Trenton yesterday.  “I will not allow taxpayers to fund projects that run over
budget with no clear way of how these costs will be paid for,”
said Christie. “The only prudent move is to end this project.”  Work began last year and was projected to create 6,000
construction  jobs  a year for a decade. New Jersey’s share of the
budgeted cost was $2.7 billion, while the Federal Transit
Administration and the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey
both committed $3 billion.  Seeking a Path  Christie and U.S. Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  will
meet today “to discuss a path forward on the ARC tunnel
project,”  Olivia Alair , a Transportation Department
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Christie said in September that his state might be forced
to cancel the project after federal officials estimated it might
cost $5 billion more than projected. The federal commitment is
capped at $3 billion, and cost overruns would have to have been
absorbed by New Jersey, Christie said yesterday.  Zoe Baldwin of the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, which
advocates for better mass transit in New York, New Jersey and
Connecticut, said in a phone interview that the tunnel’s
cancellation coupled with 22 percent fare increases harm
commuters.  Wielding a Blade  “Changing the way we do business in New Jersey doesn’t
mean taking a machete to our infrastructure,” she said.  Sara Weythman, waiting in Penn Station, said the pain is
necessary. The 37-year-old graphic designer, who voted for
Christie, said she is “tied to” her 90-minute trek from Red
Bank.  “I don’t like the decision but I’d rather he cancel it
then spend money that isn’t there,” Weythman said.  Christie’s decision touched off fury among the state’s
Democratic politicians, who control both houses of the state
legislature and dominate its Washington delegation.  U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg  called Christie’s decision
“one of the biggest public-policy blunders in New Jersey
history.”  The cancellation means the loss of $600 million of taxpayer
money that has been spent. New Jersey, the most densely
populated U.S. state, will have to repay the federal government
about $300 million plus interest and penalties for its share of
the paid funds, said Lautenberg.  Show Your Papers  Assemblyman  John Wisniewski , a Sayreville Democrat who
chairs the transportation committee, filed a public-records
request demanding to see all documents related to Christie’s
decision to kill the project. The lawmaker also said his panel
will hold an Oct. 14 hearing on the move.  “Christie’s decision will go down as one of the worst a
governor has ever made,” the Democrat said in a statement
today. “Yet the only information we have describing how he came
to it is a 3-page memo by his hand-picked committee.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;  Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  