-- CIBC Raises $738 Million in First Sale of Australian-Dollar Covered Bonds
-- B y   L i s a   P h a m
-- 2010-10-07T08:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/cibc-sells-a-750-million-of-australian-dollar-covered-bonds.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ,
the nation’s fifth-biggest bank, raised A$750 million ($742
million) in the first sale of Australian dollar-denominated
covered bonds since the start of the credit crisis in 2007.  The 5.75 percent notes due December 2013 were priced to
yield 91.25 basis points more than similar-maturity government
debt, according to an e-mailed statement from HSBC Holdings Plc,
which helped manage the sale with Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. and UBS AG. The bonds will be backed by
residential mortgage loans insured by Canada’s government-owned
national housing agency, the statement said.  “The demand was there,”  Sarah Percy-Dove , head of credit
research at Colonial First State Global Asset Management in
Sydney, said by phone today. “It was well-priced versus what
investors could buy elsewhere in the market.”  Dexia Municipal Agency, the funding unit of Brussels-based
lender Dexia SA, was the last issuer of Australian dollar-
denominated covered bonds when it sold about A$29 million of the
notes in July 2007, according to Bloomberg data. Dublin-based
Depfa ACS Bank and France’s Compagnie de Financement Foncier
have also sold such securities, the data show.  CFF, the funding unit of  Credit Foncier de France , is
considering selling covered bonds in Australian dollars to
diversify its investor base,  Paul Dudouit , head of medium- and
long-term funding at the Paris-based company, said last week.  Liquid Assets  Australian lenders are seeking to buy so-called liquid
assets after the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in
Switzerland last month disclosed tougher capital requirements
for the world’s banks.  Under new rules announced Sept. 12, designed to prevent a
repeat of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression,
covered bonds not issued by the bank itself may be counted as a
 liquid asset  to meet regulatory requirements.  In Australia, CIBC’s bonds may be eligible for repurchase
agreements with the Reserve Bank of Australia, according to
Colonial’s Percy-Dove. The nation’s banking regulator, the
Australian Prudential Regulation Authority, views securities
eligible for repurchase transactions with the central bank as
“high-quality liquid assets.”  A so-called repo lets banks who buy the notes exchange them
with the central bank for cash, with an agreement to buy back
the securities later. Repo-eligible securities in Australia
 include  Australian dollar-denominated notes with a foreign
sovereign government guarantee, according to the RBA’s website.  More Issuance  “We’ll probably see more foreign issuers selling covered
bonds in Australia,” driven by demand from local banks,  David Goodman , head of asset-backed research at Westpac Banking Corp.
in Sydney, said Oct. 5. “People are looking to buy Aussie
dollar products.”  Covered bonds, mostly sold by European banks, attract
higher ratings than regular notes because they’re backed by
assets such as mortgages that stay on the lender’s balance sheet
and can be sold in a default.  Australian banking regulators enforce a ban on the nation’s
banks from selling covered bonds because the securities conflict
with existing local banking laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 