-- Colombia Stock Exchange Projects More Canada Commodity Producer Listings
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-10-07T12:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/colombia-stock-exchange-projects-more-canada-commodity-producer-listings.html
Colombia’s stock exchange will
probably list shares of at least three Canadian commodity
producers in the next year amid record equity trading, said  Juan Pablo Cordoba , president of  Bolsa de Valores de Colombia .  Companies may also sell stock in the South American nation,
where trading in 2010 is set to surpass last year’s $20 billion,
Cordoba said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York. He declined to name the companies.  “Mining and energy are the two sectors that are seeing a
lot of activity,” Cordoba said.  Colombia’s  benchmark  IGBC and Colcap stock indexes climbed
to records yesterday, spurred by rallies in Toronto-based
 Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp.  and Bogota-based  Ecopetrol SA , as
the oil companies boosted production.  Improved security has helped attract international
investment to the nation’s oil fields, gold and coal mines from
companies including Brazil’s OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
and AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. Canacol Energy Ltd, a Calgary-based
oil and gas producer, began trading on the Colombian exchange in
July.  Colombia is on a path of change from a “failed state” a
decade ago, enabling the government to shift its agenda from
focusing on security to other priorities, President  Juan Manuel Santos  said in New York last month.  Integrated Exchange  Exchanges in Colombia, Chile and Peru are working toward
easing cross-country trading for local investors starting in
November, Cordoba said. Stocks in the three countries have a
combined market value of $624 billion, with Colombia accounting
for $211 billion, or 34 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with $1.46 trillion for shares in
Brazil and $442 billion for those in Mexico. The U.S. equity
market is worth $14 trillion, the data show.  “When people think about Latin America they think about
Brazil, they think about Mexico, and when they go beyond Brazil
and Mexico, everything else starts to look very small,” Cordoba
said. Integrating the three countries’ exchanges is intended to
“create critical mass for the local and for the international
investors, and also for local companies,” he said.  The  Colcap index  of 20 stocks climbed 1.7 percent
yesterday, extending its advance this year to 34 percent. The
IGBC index increased 1.6 percent yesterday and has climbed 31
percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 Crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  