-- Commerzbank Unit Is Sued for $68 Million in the U.S. by QVT Hedge Fund
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-07T17:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/commerzbank-unit-is-sued-for-68-million-in-the-u-s-by-qvt-hedge-fund.html
QVT Financial LP, a New York-based
hedge fund, sued the Eurohypo unit of Germany’s  Commerzbank AG 
in the U.S. over claims it owes $68 million in a dispute about
investments in two Delaware trusts.  Eurohypo, which raised $1.2 billion in “profit-dependent”
securities, recorded a loss on its balance sheet last year and
refused to repay QVT, the hedge fund said today. The loss is
irrelevant because Commerzbank agreed to compensate the unit for
any losses, QVT said.  “Having reaped the benefits associated with raising
capital from U.S. investors, the defendants now are unwilling to
live up to their obligations,” QVT said in the complaint, filed
today in state court in Delaware.  Commerzbank, the second-biggest bank in Germany, agreed in
June 2007 to reimburse Eurohypo for its losses under a so-called
domination agreement, which allows parent companies to pool
their cash and tax benefits with subsidiaries and make
management decisions, according to QVT. The hedge fund said it
filed a similar lawsuit in Germany in August.  Maximilian Bicker , a spokesman for Frankfurt-based
Commerzbank, declined to comment.  The Eurohypo trusts said in May 2009 that the European
Union restricted profit-dependent payments by Commerzbank’s
subsidiaries as part of the lender’s government bailout,
according to the complaint. QVT argues the restriction applied
only to discretionary payments and that “mandatory” payments
were still allowed.  Eurohypo’s business focuses on commercial real estate and
public finance, according to its website.  QVT asked a judge to award unspecified additional damages
after a non-jury trial, as well as attorneys’ fees and expenses.  The case is QVT Fund v. Eurohypo Capital Funding, CA5881
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 