-- Commodities to Return 17%, Oil, Copper, Palladium to Climb, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-10-07T10:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/commodities-to-return-17-oil-copper-palladium-to-climb-jpmorgan-says.html
Investors should be “long”
commodities, including crude oil, copper, corn, sugar and
palladium, as holdings will return 17 percent over the next 12
months, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a report.  Limited supply in agricultural products and industrial
metals combined with stronger-than-predicted demand will boost
prices, said bank analysts  Colin Fenton  and  Matthew Lehmann  in
the report dated yesterday. The bank’s projection is based on
the Standard & Poor’s GCSI Total Return  Index , which declined
1.6 percent in the year through yesterday.  “The recent positive manufacturing purchasing managers
index out of China and stronger-than-expected physical commodity
demand in crude oil and industrial metals lead us to move to a
net long position,” the analysts said in the report.  The S&P GSCI Total Return Index pared declines this year as
New York-traded oil jumped 11 percent last month and sugar
soared 19 percent. Severe weather from Asia to the Americas and
production cuts trimmed supplies of wheat, rubber and copper,
JPMorgan said.  Palladium will advance to $700 an ounce over the next six
to 12 months, said Fenton and Lehmann. “Supply disruptions
(strikes) could be very supportive, along with solid emerging
markets’ physical demand for the auto sector,” they said in the
report. Cash metal has climbed almost 47 percent this year,
beating gold, silver and platinum.  Copper is likely to test new highs as metal stockpiles
diminish at a time when demand from China, the world’s largest
consumer, picks up, the analysts said. Benchmark three-month
copper, trading close to a 27-month high, reached a record
$8,940 a metric ton in July 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 Cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  