-- Commonwealth Games Pool Probed for `Delhi Belly' Link
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-10-07T11:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/commonwealth-games-pool-investigated-as-swimmers-down-with-delhi-belly-.html
Commonwealth Games organizers
investigated the water quality at the event’s  swimming venue  in
New Delhi following reports that competitors had fallen ill.  Swimmers from Australia and England were among those hit by
stomach viruses, the  Australian Broadcasting Corp.  reported.
England’s team said in a statement it had “sought assurances as
to the water quality at the aquatics venue,” adding later that
they had been given.  “If there’s something unsafe, you can’t swim in that
water,” Commonwealth Games Federation president  Michael Fennell 
said today at a news conference in the Indian capital. “So
we’ll have to deal with it,” Fennell said. “This is a matter
we have to deal with with the greatest of urgency.”  Fennell said officials would conduct tests on the
competition pool and warm-up area at the Dr. S.P. Mukherjee
Aquatic Complex. Seventy-one countries and territories, most
former British colonies, are taking part in the event held every
four years and which features 17 sports.  Steve Moneghetti , Australia’s chef de mission, said that
more than 12 Australian swimmers out of the squad of about 50
had complained of stomach troubles, the ABC reported. Australian
swimmers Andrew Lauterstein and Hayden Stoeckel pulled out of
their respective heats this morning, the ABC added.  English swimmer Fran Halsall yesterday blamed what she
described as “Delhi belly” for her failure to qualify for the
100-meter butterfly final after she won the gold medal in the
50-meter event the day before. She qualified fastest in her 50-
meter freestyle heat today.  Buildup Blunders  “I’m glad I got in this morning and did it because I don’t
feel 100 percent still but the doc reckons it could just be a
24-hour thing,” Halsall told the British Broadcasting Corp.
“We are battling on.”  Among the 541 England team members staying in the games
village, 8 percent had at some stage developed mild stomach
conditions, the team said in its statement. “These levels are
lower than we expected coming into this environment,” it said.  The run-up to the Oct. 3-14 games was marred by missed
construction deadlines, the collapse of a stadium footbridge and
complaints of uninhabitable accommodation for athletes.
Authorities accelerated work to complete facilities, clean dirty
toilets and finish roads in the city of 14 million as some
competing nations delayed the departure of their teams. 