-- Congo's Army Vows to Arrest Soldiers Involved in Mining After Trade Halted
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-10-07T11:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/congo-s-army-vows-to-arrest-soldiers-involved-in-mining-after-trade-halted.html
Congo ’s army chief vowed to arrest
any soldiers involved in mining in the restive Walikale region,
where President  Joseph Kabila  last month ordered a halt to
mineral production to root out “mafias” who control the trade.  General Didier Etumba spoke after three days overseeing a
military offensive in Walikale, where the army is combating at
least half a dozen rebel groups. Both the renegade fighters and
some members of Congo’s army have been accused by the Mines
Ministry of involvement in illicit mineral trading there.  “The Congolese army has no right to be in mines,” Etumba
said in an interview Oct. 4. “I will hunt down any soldier” who
continues to engage in the mineral trade, he said.  “He would be
arrested, whatever his rank, whatever his grade, whatever his
function.”  Walikale, in the eastern Congolese province of North Kivu,
is rich in gold, tungsten and coltan, which is used in
electronics. It’s also home to the Bisie mine, which accounts
for the production of as much as 80 percent of North Kivu’s
cassiterite, or tin-ore. Congo is Africa’s largest producer of
cassiterite and the world’s fifth-biggest supplier of the
mineral, according to tin-industry group ITRI Ltd.  Two years of counterinsurgency operations have pushed
rebels into Walikale’s remote, forested hills, where they’ve
terrorized civilians and feasted on the mineral trade. Both
Congo’s army and United Nations peacekeepers bolstered their
presence in the area after being criticized for failing to
protect the population. Since July, rebels have kidnapped three
pilots from Walikale’s main airstrip and raped hundreds of
civilians.  Army Involvement  Residents and officials interviewed by Bloomberg News in
North Kivu, who declined to be identified for their safety, said
some army commanders are involved in the mineral trade. There is
also continued smuggling, especially of easily transported gold,
even after Kabila imposed the mining ban, they said.  The UN and advocacy groups including U.K.-based  Global
Witness  have documented the military’s role in the mineral trade
in Walikale since at least 2001.  The instability has contributed to delays in plans by the
Congolese Mines Ministry, the UN and the tin industry to
implement traceability programs aimed at cutting the links
between armed groups and mining throughout the North and South
Kivu provinces. From next year, the U.S. will require American
companies sourcing gold, tungsten, coltan and cassiterite from
Congo or its immediate neighbors to certify that their minerals
are “DRC conflict free.”  Complicated  Controlling the army in Walikale has been a complicated
process for Congo. Almost all of the top commanders in the
territory are former rebels allied with ethnic-Tutsi General
 Laurent Nkunda , according to the UN.  Nkunda, who led a rebellion against the Congolese
government, is under house arrest in Rwanda. Many rebels loyal
to Nkunda now answer to his former second-in-command, General
 Bosco Ntaganda , who has been integrated into Congo’s army.  Ntaganda is wanted by the International Criminal Court for
war crimes. On Oct. 4, he traveled around Walikale’s town center
in a tracksuit with a large, heavily armed entourage of former
rebels.  To deter commanders from engaging in the mineral trade,
Etumba has called for a redeployment of troops to other parts of
the country, a proposition that Ntaganda’s movement denounced in
a letter to Kabila last month.  Ntaganda and his followers have links to neighboring
Rwanda, where almost 60,000 Congolese Tutsis live as refugees.
Rwanda invaded Congo twice in the 1990s and backed Nkunda’s
rebels until the end of 2008, when President  Paul Kagame  agreed
to arrest Nkunda and the two countries began to normalize
relations.  Rwanda  is the second-largest buyer of cassiterite from
North Kivu, according to Mines Ministry statistics for the first
half of 2010.  If a soldier is asked to be redeployed to make the army
more effective, he will be redeployed, Etumba said.  “All soldiers in Congo’s army are Congolese soldiers,
whatever their military origins,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Goma on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 