-- Conoco's Management Shakeup Provides Road Map to CEO Succession
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2010-10-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/conoco-s-management-shakeup-provides-road-map-to-ceo-succession.html
ConocoPhillips , the third-largest
U.S. oil company, established a succession plan for its chief
executive as it announced the retirement of its president and
chief financial officer and brought in two outside executives as
part of a management shakeup.  Alan Hirshberg , 49, formerly a vice president at  Exxon
Mobil Corp. , will join as a senior vice president for planning
and strategy, ConocoPhillips said in a statement yesterday.
Another addition is  Greg Garland , 52, formerly head of a
chemicals joint venture with  Chevron Corp. , who will be senior
vice president for exploration and production in the Americas.  ConocoPhillips has seen several executives leave in recent
years, raising questions about who would succeed Chief Executive
Officer  Jim Mulva , 64. The company is in the middle of a two-
year, $10 billion program to sell assets and reduce debt.
ConocoPhillips may tap as CEO one of six executives listed as
being hired, promoted or staying with the company, said  Ann Kohler , a managing director at investment bank Caris & Co.  “I would anticipate that one of these gentlemen will be
named as a successor to Jim in the CEO role within the next 12
to 18 months,” said Kohler, who has an “above average”
rating on ConocoPhillips and doesn’t own any of its shares.  Kohler said Mulva may remain as chairman until sometime in
2012 or 2013. Hirshberg, who worked on worldwide deep-water and
Africa projects at  Exxon , was the biggest surprise among the
announcements, she said. ConocoPhillips’s statement also
discussed Garland and four executives who remain with the
company.  Conoco Retirements  Jeff Sheets , who was a senior vice president for commercial
and strategy at ConocoPhillips, was named chief financial
officer, the company said.  Willie Chiang , senior vice president
for refining, marketing and transportation, also will be in
charge of commercial business activities.  Ryan Lance , senior vice president for international
exploration and production, and  Larry Archibald , senior vice
president for exploration and business development, will keep
their current positions, according to ConocoPhillips.  ConocoPhillips said the following executives are retiring
from the company: President  John Carrig ; Chief Financial Officer
 Sigmund Cornelius ;  Stephen Brand , a senior vice president of
technology; and  Kevin Meyers , a senior vice president for
exploration and production in the Americas. The departures are
effective at the end of the year except for Carrig, who will
leave at the end of February,  ConocoPhillips  said. The company
did not name a successor for Carrig.  CEO Plan  Philip Weiss , an analyst with Argus Research in New York,
said he wasn’t “enthused” about the prospect of Carrig or
Cornelius replacing Mulva as CEO because ConocoPhillips needs
someone with more of an operational background.  Cathy Cram, a ConocoPhillips spokeswoman, said Mulva’s plan
to stay for several years hasn’t changed. She declined to
comment on speculation about the timing of his departure or
provide a complete list of ages for executives in yesterday’s
statement. The company has been working on a succession plan for
more than a year to ensure a smooth leadership transition in the
future, Cram said.  ConocoPhillips has had a number of departures in recent
years, such as  Gregory Goff , a senior vice president who left
this year to become  Tesoro Corp. ’s CEO. In 2009,  Jim Gallogly ,
executive vice president of exploration and production, quit to
become CEO at LyondellBasell Industries. In 2007, Randy
Limbacher, president of exploration and production in the
Americas, decided to leave the company.  Exxon Mobil and  Chevron  are the two largest U.S. oil
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 