-- Consumer Gene Tests Should Be Regulated for Accuracy, Scientists Say
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-10-07T19:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/consumer-gene-tests-should-be-regulated-for-accuracy-scientists-say.html
Gene testing companies such as
 23andMe Inc . and  DeCode Genetics Inc.  should be regulated
because consumers may make wrong medical decisions based on
inaccurate or misinterpreted results, scientists said.  The tests are promoted as providing information about a
person’s likelihood to develop a wide range of traits and
conditions, from excessive ear wax to cancer and Alzheimer’s
disease. More than 90 percent of results aren’t seen by an
outside reviewer before being sent to the consumers, according
to a commentary in the journal  Science .  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is reviewing the
tests, and the Government Accountability Office said in July
that the companies were misleading consumers by providing
unclear or conflicting information. Misinterpretation of the
data may cause harm to consumers who take action on their own,
said the scientists who wrote the commentary. In one study, 40
percent of Alzheimer’s patients reported increasing their
medications after getting the tests, the authors said.  “The first step is transparency, for consumers to have
access to accurate information,” said  Amy McGuire , an associate
professor of medicine and ethics at Baylor College of Medicine
in Houston who was an author of the commentary, in a telephone
interview.  One difficulty in regulating these tests, also made by
 Pathway Genomics Corp.  and  Navigenics Inc. , is that they combine
genetic traits that don’t have a health-care impact, such as a
proclivity to be a fast runner, with more serious medical
information, such as prostate cancer risk, McGuire said.  Breast Cancer Risk  The authors said that some information, such as ancestry,
may not have medical consequences and should only be checked to
make sure that it’s accurate. Other assays, such as those that
measure breast cancer risk, should only be performed with
counseling from a health-care professional, the authors wrote.  “Clearly with medical information with important health
implications, patients need to be able to attain that
information in an environment where their options are laid
out,” McGuire said. “And someone can help understand not just
what does that result tell you, but what does it mean in the
context of other risk factors.”  Pathway Genomics announced in May that it intended to sell
its kits in  Walgreen Co.’s  retail stores, which sparked an
effort by the FDA to monitor the testing companies. Walgreen
shelved the plan after the FDA opened a review, saying the gene
tests were medical devices. The tests work by collecting a
person’s saliva and analyzing DNA from the spit sample in a lab.  FDA Review  “This paper presents some interesting options for the
oversight of DTC testing,” said Erica Jefferson, a spokeswoman
for the FDA, in an e-mailed statement. The paper’s approach may
not be the best option, and the FDA is developing a way to
monitor these tests, with the goal that direct-to-consumer tests
be safe and effective when used without guidance from a health-
care professional, she said.  Brenna Sweeny, a spokeswoman for Foster City, California-
based Navigenics, and San Diego-based Pathway Genomics didn’t
immediately return a call requesting comments.  Edward Farmer of DeCode referred comment to previous
statements by  Kari Stefansson , executive chairman and president
of research for DeCode. Stefansson said in June that DeCode
welcomes regulation by the FDA.  ‘Entirely Confident’  “While 23andMe is entirely confident in its own reports
developed in conjunction with physician and scientific advisers,
the company is in discussions with the FDA regarding an improved
regulatory framework for genetic testing,” said Ashley Gould,
general counsel for the Mountain View, California-based company,
in an e-mailed statement. “23andMe believes new regulations
should provide transparency across the industry so that
consumers know what they are getting from the services they
choose.”  The FDA should review all tests before they come to market,
today’s editorial said. Less risky ones, such as those that
trace ancestry or susceptibility to extra earwax, could be
subject to a light review and a national registry to disclose
uncertainty.  Groups such as  GeneTests , a website that displays genetic
information, and the  National Institutes of Health  should play a
role in making sure information from testing companies about
methods and accuracy is publicly disclosed, said McGuire and her
colleagues in the editorial.  Professional Review  More risky tests, such as those for Huntington’s disease
or cancer, should be reviewed by a health-care professional, the
scientists said. Involving a doctor or nurse would limit access
to tests because it would make them more expensive. There would
still be a chance that patients would be unnecessarily treated
if the reviewers weren’t properly trained, the authors said.  Ira Loss , an analyst with Washington Analysis, said
consumers don’t know how accurate test results are without any
independent assessment.  “I’m not surprised an editorial like this is being
published,” Loss said in a telephone interview today. “There’s
a very strong sense in the medical community that the more
serious genetic information shouldn’t arrive in an envelope,
particularly if there’s a bad message to be delivered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 