-- Cooper May Be U.K. Labour Finance Spokeswoman as She Tops Lawmakers' Poll
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-10-07T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/cooper-may-be-labour-s-finance-spokeswoman-as-she-tops-poll-of-lawmakers.html
Yvette Cooper  may be on course to
beat her husband  Ed Balls  to the post of the U.K.  Labour Party ’s
Treasury spokeswoman opposite Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  after coming top in a poll of lawmakers.  When the Labour Party is in opposition, its members of
Parliament pick a team of spokesmen from among their number to
form what is known as the Shadow Cabinet.  Ed Miliband , elected
party leader on Sept. 25, will choose which job to give each
person.  Cooper, 41, the work and pensions secretary in the Labour
government that lost power in May, came first in the poll, with
232 out of 256 lawmakers backing her, the party announced in
London last night. Balls, who was schools secretary, came third,
with 179 votes, behind former Housing Minister  John Healey .  Betting exchange  smarkets.com  gave Cooper a 60 percent
chance of getting the Treasury portfolio after the result,
against 30 percent for her husband. In 1992,  Gordon Brown  became
shadow chancellor after topping the poll. He went on to serve a
decade as chancellor and then three years as prime minister
after Labour took power in 1997.  Balls, 43, who was economic adviser to Brown for more than
10 years, also came third in the Labour leadership race, in
which Cooper did not run. He focused his leadership campaign on
the economy, arguing against attempting to reduce the deficit
until the country is clear of recession. Smarkets.com gave him a
50 percent chance of being named shadow home secretary.  Fraternal Rivalry  It’s the second potential family conflict within the Labour
Party in two weeks, after the battle between Miliband and his
older brother  David  for the leadership of the party. That
culminated in David deciding to quit frontline politics after
his defeat.  Echoes of that battle may live on in Miliband’s new team.
Five of the 19 backed him to be leader, half the number who
supported his brother.  There was a more harmonious result for twin sisters  Angela 
and  Maria Eagle , who were both elected to the team, as was  Andy Burnham , another defeated leadership candidate, and Alan Johnson , the former home secretary.  Diane Abbott , the only woman
to run to lead the party, failed to be elected to the Shadow
Cabinet after finishing fifth and last in the leadership race.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 