-- Copper Advances for Third Day, Near 27-Month High on Dollar
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-10-07T03:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/copper-advances-for-third-day-trades-near-27-month-high-tin-nickel-gain.html
Copper climbed to trade near its
highest price in almost 27 months as U.S. employment data added
to signs the Federal Reserve may expand credit-easing measures
to spur growth, weakening the dollar and boosting demand for
alternative assets. Tin and nickel also advanced.  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange rose as much as 0.5 percent to $8,300 a metric ton and
traded at $8,296 by 11:26 a.m. in Singapore. The metal climbed
to $8,326 a ton yesterday, the highest price since July 2008.
Copper futures for December delivery in New York gained 0.6
percent to $3.7755 a pound. The Shanghai Futures Exchange will
re-open tomorrow after the National Day holiday.  Base metals prices are supported by a weaker U.S. dollar,
“as markets continue to digest central banks’ current appetite
for quantitative easing,” Commonwealth Bank of Australia
analyst  Lachlan Shaw  wrote in an e-mail today.  The  dollar  was little changed against a basket of six major
currencies including the euro and yen, after falling to the
lowest level since January yesterday. A private report yesterday
based on payrolls showed unexpected U.S. job losses in
September.  The dollar traded near a 15-year low against the yen and
close to an eight-month low against the euro before reports
forecast to show an increase in initial jobless claims and the
unemployment rate.  A rally in regional equities and concerns about possible
supply disruptions amid shrinking global stockpiles helped
support copper prices. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  of stocks
reached a two-year high today as Australian companies hired more
people than estimated in a Bloomberg News survey.  Supply ‘Tightening’  Workers at Anglo American Plc and Xstrata Plc’s Collahuasi
copper mine in Chile, the world’s largest producer, rejected a
wage offer earlier today and will enter negotiations over new
contracts before an Oct. 31 deadline, union official Manuel
Munoz said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “We retain our positive view on the sector as supply-
demand balances are tightening in most metals markets,” Stefan
 Graber , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note to
clients today. “Temporary setbacks should in our view be used
as buying opportunities.”  Aluminum and lead in London were unchanged at $2,365 a ton
and $2,316 a ton respectively, while zinc was little changed at
$2,335 a ton. Nickel rose 0.4 percent to $24,898 a ton and tin
gained 1 percent to $26,500 a ton, after reaching a record
$26,495 a ton yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 Gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  