-- Copper May Rise in London as Dollar Slumps Before Labor Reports
-- B y   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-10-07T11:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/copper-may-advance-for-third-day-as-dollar-drops-before-u-s-labor-reports.html
Copper may rise for a third day in
London as the dollar weakens before reports that might signal a
deteriorating U.S. labor market, potentially spurring more steps
by the Federal Reserve to spur growth.  The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, fell to the lowest level since January as
it headed for a fourth weekly loss. Figures due today will show
higher initial weekly claims for jobless benefits in the U.S.,
and a monthly report to be released tomorrow will show an
increased unemployment rate, according to economists.  “The greenback is taking a further beating, with attention
turning to U.S. jobs reports,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an
analyst at VTB Capital in London.  Copper for delivery in three months added $4 to $8,263 a
metric ton at 11:57 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange. December-
delivery copper gained 0.2 percent to $3.76 a pound on the Comex
in New York.  Today’s figures, due at 1:30 p.m. London time, may show
U.S. initial jobless claims rose by 2,000 to 455,000 in the week
ended Oct. 2, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.
Tomorrow’s report will show that the unemployment rate in the
country climbed to 9.7 percent in September, a separate survey
indicates.  Asset Purchases  U.S. two-year Treasury yields matched a record low today on
speculation that the Fed will resume asset purchases, or so-
called quantitative easing. The central bank bought $1.75
trillion of mortgage debt and Treasuries from August 2008
through March of this year. Fed policy makers meet Nov. 2-3.  “The Fed is likely to announce large-scale purchases of
duration assets,”  David Thurtell , a Citigroup Inc. analyst in
London, said in a report e-mailed today. “We see the immediate
impact of QE2 as market-friendly, in similar fashion to the
impact of QE1. Copper seems likely to push into the mid-$8,000s
over the coming few months and above $9,000 by mid-2011.”  The first round of quantitative easing helped to boost gold
prices by 8 percent, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch said this
month. Thurtell cited estimates by Citigroup economists for a
total program of $250 billion to $1 trillion.  The dollar index dropped as much as 0.4 percent. A weaker
U.S. currency makes dollar-priced metals cheaper in terms of
other monies.  Relative Strength  Industrial production in Germany, the world’s third-largest
copper user after China and the U.S., increased more than three
times the pace economists forecast in August. Production jumped
1.7 percent from July, the Economy Ministry said.  LME copper’s 14-day relative strength index, a gauge of
whether a commodity is overbought or oversold, was at 74.53.
Some analysts and traders who study technical charts view levels
above 70 as a signal that prices may be poised to retreat.  “Short-term upside for base metals might be limited, but
we expect gains for most of them in the medium term,” said
Thurtell. He pointed to emerging-market demand, supply limits
and prospects for exchange-traded funds backed by industrial
metals as the “main positives” in addition to prospects for
more Fed asset purchases.  Commodity prices probably will stay “high by historical
standards over the medium term, with risks tilted to the
upside,” the International Monetary Fund said yesterday as it
raised its forecast for global economic growth this year to 4.8
percent from 4.6 percent.  Pay Talks  In Chile, the world’s largest producer of copper, workers
at Anglo American Plc and Xstrata Plc’s Collahuasi mine rejected
a wage offer and will enter talks over new contracts ahead of an
Oct. 31 deadline, union official Manuel Munoz said in an
interview yesterday.  LME copper stockpiles fell to 373,450 tons, the lowest
level since Nov. 2, exchange figures showed. Orders to draw
copper from inventories, or canceled warrants, rose 20 percent,
the most since Sept. 15, to 19,625 tons, after 11 declines in a
row through yesterday, the longest such streak since August
2007.  Tin for three-month delivery on the LME rose 0.6 percent to
$26,400 a ton after touching a record $26,790 a ton in the
previous session. The metal is this year’s best LME performer,
up 57 percent, after production disruptions in Indonesia and
Democratic Republic of Congo bolstered prices.  Aluminum gained 0.6 percent to $2,378 a ton and nickel
declined 0.4 percent to $24,710 a ton. Lead fell 0.5 percent to
$2,303.75 a ton and zinc lost 0.3 percent to $2,327 a ton.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 