-- Copper May Drop Next Week on Demand-Rebound Timing Concern, Survey Shows
-- B y   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-10-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/copper-may-drop-on-concern-spending-may-not-stimulate-demand-survey-shows.html
Copper may decline on speculation
that further efforts by the U.S. Federal Reserve to stimulate
the economy could take time to produce a demand rebound, a
survey showed.  Seven of 14 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 50 percent, said the metal will fall next week.
Six predicted higher prices and one expected little change.
Copper for delivery in three months was 0.1 percent lower for
this week at $8,090 a metric ton at 4:35 p.m. yesterday on the
London Metal Exchange.  U.S. two-year Treasury yields fell to a record low
yesterday amid speculation the Fed will resume asset purchases
under its quantitative-easing plan, aiming to boost growth. A
report today may show the jobless rate rose in September for a
second month, indicating a rebound will take time to develop,
and providing one reason why the Fed may ease monetary policy.
Fed watchers expect policy makers to take further action at
their next meeting Nov. 2-3.  Copper prices could decline “as funds might realize that
real demand might take longer to recover,”  William Adams , an
analyst at Basemetals.com in London, said in an e-mail.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of Oct. 1.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
52 of the past 106 weeks, or 49 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 6  Bearish : 7 Hold: 1  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 