-- Core Mining's Iron Mine in Congo Republic Could Cost $4 Billion, CEO Says
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-10-07T14:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/core-mining-s-iron-mine-in-congo-republic-could-cost-4-billion-ceo-says.html
Core Mining Ltd. , an iron ore
explorer backed by  OAO Severstal , said its project in the
Republic of Congo may cost as much as $4 billion and that it may
consider an initial public offering to help fund its
development.  The closely held company has spent $40 million on
exploration at the Avima project in the central African nation
and is planning a drilling program next year that may cost as
much as $100 million, Chief Executive Officer  Socrates Vasiliades  said by phone today. Core plans to start output by
2015 at a rate of 20 million metric tons a year, he said.  Rising iron ore prices driven by surging demand for steel
in China have spurred mining companies to search for new
deposits in under-explored regions such as central and western
Africa.  Sundance Resources Ltd.  and  Bellzone Mining Plc  are
among mining companies studying similar operations in the
region, while Xstrata Plc said in November it has an option to
acquire 100 percent of the Zanaga iron ore project in the
Republic of Congo.  “We have some good shareholders already on the registry,
including Severstal, and as the project’s advancing we’re just
raising capital as we require it,” Vasiliades said from London.
A future IPO is “an option, definitely, but we haven’t
finalized any plans in that respect yet,” he said. Any IPO
could occur before the completion of a financing study for the
mine, currently expected in 2012, Vasiliades said.  Severstal, Russia’s largest steelmaker, bought a 16.5
percent stake in Core in May.  ‘Some Significant Names’  Severstal  can invest as much as $55 million in Core by the
end of 2012 under the terms of the initial investment, Core said
at the time. Severstal last month agreed a 25-year plan to
develop the Putu iron ore mine in Liberia for as much as $2.5
billion.  The Avima mine, port and rail  project  could cost between $3
billion and $4 billion, Vasiliades said. The company is also
studying the development of the Kango project in Gabon where
output could start in 2012, he said.  As well as financial investors, Core has received interest
from mining companies and other “strategic-type investors that
can contribute to infrastructure development and port
development,” Vasiliades said. The company’s in talks with
potential new investors and there may be “some significant
names coming on the registry” during the next 12-18 months, he
said.  An initial estimate of the iron ore resource at the Avima
project is due by the end of the year and the company is
targeting 500 million tons of so-called hematite ore, a premium
grade to magnetite ore.  ‘Extremely High Grades’  Recent drilling has shown “extremely high grades of
iron,” above 65 percent, he said.  Bellzone Mining, which raised 33.6 million pounds ($54
million) in a London IPO in April, is seeking partners to
develop a $4.5 billion mine, rail and port project in Guinea.
Sundance Resources is studying a $3.4 billion operation in
Cameroon.  Xstrata  said in November it had agreed with Jumelles Ltd.
to fund at least $50 million of exploration and pre-development
studies in return for an option to acquire a 50 percent plus one
interest in Jumelles. The accord also gave Xstrata a future
option to acquire 100 percent of the project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  