-- U.S. Corporate Credit Risk Index Falls to Lowest in Five Months
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-10-07T22:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/corporate-credit-risk-index-fluctuates-near-5-month-low-after-jobs-report.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk in
the U.S. fell to the lowest in almost five months after a report
showed applications for unemployment benefits fell last week.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 0.3 basis point to a mid-price of 98.4 basis points,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The measure,
which typically declines as investor confidence improves,
dropped to the lowest level since May 12.  Fewer dismissals signal companies are gaining confidence
sales will hold up, supporting the economy. The index has fallen
for three straight days amid speculation the Federal Reserve
will buy bonds to shore up the recovery. Swaps on bonds of
Anadarko Petroleum Corp.’s Kerr-McGee Corp. unit and Verizon
Communications Inc. dropped, according to data provider CMA.  “We see investors adding more risk,”  Mikhail Foux , a
credit strategist at New York-based Citigroup Inc., said today
in an interview. “Pretty much all credit is rallying right
now.”  Jobless claims dropped by 11,000 to 445,000 in the week
ended Oct. 2, the fewest since July 10, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. Economists projected 455,000 new
claims for last week, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Oil Price  Credit-default swaps on energy company Kerr-McGee fell 19.3
basis points to 100.2 basis points, CMA prices show. Crude oil
for November delivery reached $84.43, the highest level since
May 4, before falling to $81.41 on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, down $1.82 for the day.  Swaps linked to Verizon’s finance unit fell 4.9 basis
points to 59.9 basis points, CMA prices show.  Apple Inc. and Verizon will sell an iPhone for the latter’s
CDMA network in the first quarter of 2011, according to the Wall
Street Journal. Bloomberg News, citing two people familiar with
the plan, reported in June that Verizon will start offering the
iPhone in January.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 Jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  