-- Cuomo Widens Lead Over Paladino in Race for New York Governor, Poll Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-10-07T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/cuomo-increases-lead-over-paladino-for-new-york-governor-poll-indicates.html
New York  state Attorney General
 Andrew Cuomo  has opened an 18 percentage-point lead over
Republican  Carl Paladino  in the race for governor, according to
a Quinnipiac University  poll  of likely voters.  If the election were held today, Cuomo, a Democrat, would
get 55 percent of the vote and Paladino 37 percent, the survey
released today said. That’s a 12-point gain over a  Sept. 22 
survey, when Cuomo led Paladino 49 percent to 43 percent.  The findings from interviews this month follow a period in
which Paladino made headlines by angrily confronting a New York
Post reporter, captured in a  video , and by characterizing
Assembly Speaker  Sheldon Silver , a Manhattan Democrat, as a
“criminal” for opposing changes to tort and insurance laws and
not disclosing his income as a trial lawyer.  “Since Quinnipiac University’s last poll two weeks ago,
it’s been a loony-tunes time for Paladino in the news media --
one time in a face-to-face fight with a reporter -- and it
shows,” said  Maurice Carroll , director of the  Quinnipiac
University Polling Institute  in Hamden, Connecticut.  Paladino, 64, a Buffalo real-estate developer, prevailed
over the Republican Party’s endorsed candidate, former U.S.
Representative  Rick Lazio , in last month’s primary election.
Running with a “Mad as Hell” slogan and Tea Party support, he
spent $3 million of his own money, beating Lazio 62 percent to
38 percent in the Sept. 14 preliminary contest.  Similar Surveys  The latest measure of voter sentiment was consistent with
recent surveys showing Cuomo widening his lead over Paladino. A
Siena Research Institute poll of likely voters released Oct. 5
gave the attorney general a 24-percentage point margin over the
developer, 56 percent to 32 percent. Four polls in September’s
second half gave Cuomo a lead of at least 16 percentage points.  Paladino leads Cuomo among self-described angry voters, 50
percent to 41 percent, Quinnipiac said. It said 45 percent of
survey respondents described themselves as angry about state
government.  “Those who say they are angry go for Carl Paladino -- but
not by all that much,” Carroll said in a statement about the
survey results.  Voters said 54 percent to 30 percent that Paladino doesn’t
have the right personality for a governor, in contrast to Cuomo,
52, who does, according to 67 percent of respondents.  Cuomo, of Mount Kisco in Westchester County, leads among
Democrats, 86 percent to 11 percent, and among independents, 47
percent to 42 percent. In the Sept. 22 Quinnipiac survey,
Paladino led among independents, 49 percent to 43 percent.  Republicans back Paladino 69 percent to 23 percent, and
voters who identify with the Tea Party movement support him, 79
percent to 15 percent, Quinnipiac said. Respondents who said
they are part of the Tea Party comprised 15 percent of the
total.  The telephone survey contacted 1,141 likely voters from
Oct. 1-5 and has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.9
percentage points, the institute said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  