-- Currency Trade to Be Lucrative Even as Financial Rules Change, Panel Says
-- B y   P i m m   F o x   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-10-07T20:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/currency-trade-to-be-lucrative-even-as-financial-rules-change-panel-says.html
Currency trading will remain
profitable amid shifts in financial regulations because it
requires committing less capital than other financial
transactions, panelists said during a Bloomberg LP currency
conference in New York.  New requirements from the  Basel Committee  on Banking
Supervision, an international rulemaking group, include a
measure that would force lenders to have common equity equal to
at least 7 percent of assets, weighted according to their risk,
including a 2.5 percent buffer to withstand future stress.  Changes in U.S. regulations, including the so-called
Volcker rule that limits proprietary trading by banks, would
also have little impact on currency trading revenue, panelists
said. That’s because between 90 and 95 percent of trade volume
at large foreign-exchange operations are driven by clients, said
 Hans Ephraimson , head of foreign-exchange sales at Deutsche Bank
AG in New York.  “We’ve always been extremely client-driven,” said  Doug Horlick , head of institutional sales at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in New York. “Will this focus us more in that facet? I
think most likely. It’s clearly here to say.”  Foreign-exchange trading rose to $4 trillion a day on
average even as growth in the market slowed in the three years
through April, a Bank for International Settlements survey
published Sept. 1 showed.  Trading increased 20 percent, down from a 72 percent pace
in the three years to 2007, according to the poll. Wider price
swings caused by the credit crisis cut the appetite for risk
versus the previous period, which was fueled by “low levels of
financial market volatility and of risk aversion, and expansion
in the activity of hedge funds,” the Basel, Switzerland-based
BIS said. The survey is released every three years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pimm Fox  in New York at 
 pfox11@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  