-- Demag Cranes Stock Surges on FTD Report Konecranes May Be Preparing Offer
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r   a n d   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2010-10-07T08:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/demag-cranes-stock-surges-on-ftd-report-konecranes-may-be-preparing-offer.html
Demag Cranes AG  rose the most in
almost two years in Frankfurt trading after the Financial Times
Deutschland reported Finnish competitor  Konecranes Oyj  is
considering a takeover of the German maker of harbor cranes.  Demag gained as much as 3.75 euros, or 13 percent, to 33.40
euros, the biggest intraday jump since Oct. 30, 2008, and was up
11 percent as of 10:55 a.m. Miikka Kinnunen, Konecranes’
investor relations head, declined to comment on the report while
saying his company is “actively pursuing” acquisitions.  Konecranes , the world’s largest supplier of industrial
cranes, has added six smaller service providers this year and
has historically made about 10 acquisitions annually, Kinnunen
said today in a phone interview from company headquarters in
Hyvinkaa. Konecranes can spend “hundreds of millions of euros”
on acquisitions, Boersen-Zeitung cited Chief Executive Officer
 Pekka Lundmark  as saying in an article published yesterday.  Demag Cranes has a market value of about 700 million euros
($979 million). The company, which sold stock to the public in
2006, has no controlling shareholder. Before today, Demag shares
had gained 27 percent this year.  Sales at Dusseldorf-based  Demag  in the year through
September 2009 totaled 1.05 billion euros, with 52 percent of
revenue coming from industrial cranes, 28 percent from services
and 19 percent from port technology.  Konecranes’ Strategy  Konecranes has typically made  acquisitions  of companies
with annual sales “in the low single-digit” billion-euro
range, Kinnunen said. Acquisition strategy is focused on
equipment makers in emerging markets and service providers in
developed countries, he said.  Speculation about a possible takeover by Konecranes
surfaced last year, when the Finnish company said conditions
offered “new interesting M&A opportunities” and that it would
ask shareholders to approve possible share sales and repurchases
at an extraordinary general meeting. Lundmark said at the time
that the measure wasn’t for specific targets.  Konecranes  rose  as much as 37 cents, or 1.4 percent, to
26.77 euros and was up 0.3 percent in Helsinki trading. The
stock has gained 39 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janina Pfalzer  in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net ;
 Benedikt Kammel  in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 