-- Deposit Rates Rise to Nine-Month High on Bank Debt Sales: Argentina Credit
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-10-07T21:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/deposit-rates-rise-to-nine-month-high-on-bank-debt-sales-argentina-credit.html
Interest rates on Argentine bank
deposits are climbing to the highest level in nine months as the
central bank steps up sales of short-term notes to absorb pesos
and contain inflation.  The so-called  badlar  rate that banks pay on deposits held
for 30 to 35 days surged 115 basis points, or 1.15 percentage
points, to an average of 10.53 percent this month. It touched an
average of 9.38 percent in May, a two-year low.  Central bank President  Mercedes Marco  del Pont is boosting
debt sales to soak up part of the pesos she’s been printing to
buy dollars and weaken the currency. The increased auctions of
local notes push up the price of money and help restrain
inflation running at about 25 percent, the highest rate in the
world after Venezuela.  “This is a way to remove liquidity,” said  Camilo Tiscornia , a former central bank economist who is now an analyst
at research company C&T Asesores in Buenos Aires. “If those
pesos stay out there in the system, they will generate more
inflation.”  The sale of notes known locally as lebacs and nobacs, which
pay 2.5 percent above the badlar rate, surged to 2.63 billion
pesos ($664.4 million) this week from 747 million pesos at last
year’s final weekly auction, according to the central bank. The
total supply of central bank fixed-rate notes maturing in one to
three years rose to 59.9 billion pesos this month, from 34.1
billion in June of last year.  Marco del Pont’s policy of printing pesos to buy dollars
and weaken the local currency pushed Argentina’s  reserves  to a
record $51.5 billion this week. As a result of the peso
printing, the central bank had to raise the 2010 monetary
expansion target in August to 29.4 percent from 19 percent.  A central bank official in Buenos Aires, who asked not to
be identified in accordance with internal policy, declined to
comment.  Trend  The badlar rate, which private banks pay on deposits of
more than 1 million pesos, is a local benchmark for bank loans.
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is unlikely to allow
the rate to rise higher as it may make credit more expensive for
consumers and crimp economic growth, said  Carola Sandy , an
economist with Credit Suisse Group AG in New York.  “I’d be surprised if this is part of a trend,” Sandy said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “The government doesn’t
necessarily want to see higher interest rates.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold the government’s
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries shrank six basis points
to 647 at 5:04 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  ‘Shrink That Gap’  The cost of insuring Argentine bonds against default for
five years fell 16 basis points to 720, according to CMA
DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to comply with debt
agreements.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 3.9585 per dollar.  Warrants linked to economic growth rose 0.06 cent to 12.13,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Argentina’s economy may
expand as much as 9.5 percent this year, the fastest since 1992,
according to the central bank.  Consumers expect prices to rise 25 percent over the next
year, more than double the official rate and the most in the
world after Venezuela, according to a Sept. 15 survey by Buenos
Aires-based Torcuato Di Tella University.  The badlar rate is also a reference for government peso
bonds that mature in 2014 and 2015. The securities pay coupons
of 2.75 percent and 3 percent above the badlar.  “There’s been much more demand for bonds linked to badlar
in the last couple of months,” said  Noelia Lucini , a portfolio
manager with Capital Markets Argentina in Buenos Aires. “People
are looking for a way to compensate for inflation. You aren’t
going to find yields of 25-30 percent, but you try to shrink
that gap.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net 
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  