-- Deutsche Bank Turns Neutral on Asia Stocks After Recommending August Sales
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-10-07T02:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/deutsche-bank-turns-neutral-on-asia-stocks-after-recommending-august-sales.html
Deutsche Bank AG, which advised
investors in August to sell Asian equities, said it’s turning
neutral on the region’s  stocks  in the near term amid “positive
economic surprises” and improving technical indicators.  There may be “possible upside risk” for Asian stock
markets as major economies around the world add to so-called
quantitative easing to stimulate growth, according to a report
by strategists led by  Ajay Kapur .  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  rallied 11
percent last month, the biggest gain since July 2009, after
central banks from the U.S. to Japan signaled they may be
prepared to add to stimulus. The Bank of Japan this week
unexpectedly cut interest rates to as a low as zero and said it
would buy as much as $60 billion of assets to keep the economy
from faltering.  “The world’s key economies have launched a competitive and
massive monetary reflation program,” said Kapur, who joined
Deutsche Bank as head of Asian equity strategy in August.
“Global free liquidity and inflation expectations are being
targeted by the authorities, normally a positive for risk
assets.”  Kapur said on Sept. 28 he’s seeing “glimmers of hope” for
Asian stock markets. He stopped short of reversing his negative
outlook for markets in the short term, saying that he will watch
for further improvement in technical and economic indicators.  Data released in the past two weeks showed an increase in
U.S. services and manufacturing indexes as well as a jump in
China’s purchasing managers’ indexes.  U.S. Unemployment  Still, a report today may show U.S.  initial jobless claims 
increased by 2,000 to 455,000 in the week ended Oct. 2 while
data tomorrow may show the unemployment rate climbing to 9.7
percent in September from 9.6 percent in August, according to
Bloomberg News surveys of economists.  Citing the level of unemployment, Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the bank has a duty to aid the
economy. He also said on Oct. 4 that restarting asset purchases
would probably spur growth, fueling speculation the Fed will
join the BOJ in stepping up stimulus measures.  Strengthening  technical indicators  also suggest that
markets may be able to add to last month’s rebound, the
strategist said, citing breadth indicators that track the number
of stocks setting new highs and lows.  “The good news is that the market is not confused at all
now,” Kapur also said. “New lows have vanished and new highs
are increasing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  