-- Diapers.com Takes on Amazon in Huggies Delivery-Time Smackdown
-- B y   B r y a n t   U r s t a d t
-- 2010-10-07T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/diapers-com-takes-on-amazon-in-huggies-delivery-time-smackdown.html
It’s good to be the chief executive
officer of a company that’s about to ship 500 million diapers in
a single year. For one thing, you get to drive a golf cart as
fast as you want in your new 1,250,000-square-foot warehouse.  “Hang on!” says  Marc Lore , putting the hammer down.  The golf cart leaps forward, racing through 10-foot-tall
canyons of diapers stacked on pallets. At 25 miles an hour, the
diaper mountains blur by, here a pyramid of  Huggies  Little
Snugglers with pocketed back waistbands, there a tower of
 Pampers  Swaddlers Sensitive economy size packs. Skyscrapers of
Enfamil, Similac, and Luvs Ultra Clean Wipes flash past.  “You could put about 20 football fields in this place,”
says Lore, CEO of Quidsi, the parent company of Diapers.com, the
Internet service that by year-end expects to ship Diaper No. 500
million. Next to Lore, in the passenger seat, is  Vinit Bharara ,
co-founder and chief operating officer,  Bloomberg Businessweek 
reports in its Oct. 11 issue. Lore and Bharara, both 39, have
been friends since grammar school in New Jersey.  Also on board is Scott Hilton, Quidsi’s executive vice-
president for operations, who designed the warehouse, which is
in Gouldsboro, Pennsylvania. The place is a third of a mile
long; the way Lore drives his cart, it takes him about a minute
to travel its length. High overhead, motion-activated lights
flicker to life as he speeds along, leaving a sky trail behind
as they zoom past the walls of diapers.  Lore can go almost anywhere he wants inside the warehouse.
He can duck through its 53 aisles of supplies with about 50,000
different products. He can slip by its loading docks, where
trucks are being stuffed with packages destined for 20 states.
The company also has warehouses in Reno, Nevada, and Kansas
City, Missouri.  260 Robots  There is one place Lore can’t go. He can’t go where the
robots are. The warehouse features about 260 robots, working in
a 200,000-square-foot (18,600-square-meter) expanse delimited by
bright yellow paint and filled with square racks of shelving.  They are short, orange, rectangular machines that lift and
deliver the shelf pallets to human “pickers” at stations
around the perimeter. They move in balletic formation, dancing
like the magic broomsticks in “Fantasia,” sometimes stopping
and swiveling in place to change direction. They wait for a
column of their peers to pass or make orderly lines in front of
the packing stations before dropping off their loads. Each robot
weighs about 800 pounds (363 kilograms) and can lift 3,000
pounds of merchandise.  “They have sensors and they’re supposed to stop if they
see you,” Hilton says. “But it’s better to stay out of their
way. They’re very quiet, and you don’t hear them coming.”  ‘Room for Growth’  So Lore avoids robot territory, driving down another canyon
and pulling up to a door in a dark corner. Beyond it is a
400,000-square-foot space yet to be used.  “Room for growth,” Lore says, letting the size of the
space do most of the talking. It is easy to understand the
message here, and in everything Quidsi does. To survive as a
commodity-based retailer you need scale -- because no matter
what you’re selling, if you’re selling online, you are always,
always at war with  Amazon.com Inc.   Lore and Bharara generated about $180 million in revenue in
2009 and expect to bring in about $300 million in 2010. The
five-year-old company -- Quidsi means “What if?” in Latin --
is already breaking even in a category that wasn’t supposed to
work on the Internet: quickly shipping bulky, low-margin
commodities.   The partners don’t make money on diapers, and
never planned to. Diapers are the draw that brings in loyal
customers who order over and over. The money comes when a
shopper throws in one of the other 25,000 SKUs, or Stock Keeping
Units, that Diapers.com lists on its site -- higher-margin items
like brand-name baby shampoo, wipes, and formula.  Soap.com Debut  Soap.com , just introduced, adds another 25,000 SKUs. Lore
and Bharara want to have well over 100,000 by the end of next
year; they’re planning to get into toys, too. According to the
partners, their customers are “sticky,” ordering again and
again and telling other parents about the service. They are also
a valuable demographic; many are mothers who don’t have time to
drive over to a  Costco Wholesale Corp.  store because they’re
working and will spend money to save time.  The company started out as 1800diapers.com. Before going
live in January 2005, Lore and Bharara spent three years
planning and perfecting an easy-to-use site that looked like an
enormous operation. In fact, their first customer-service
department and warehouse had one employee: Gina DePaola, now 38,
a college friend of Lore’s.  P&G Pampers  The warehouse was her garage in Center Moriches on Long
Island. When Lore and Bharara tried to get  Procter & Gamble Co. 
to deliver Pampers to DePaola’s home, they were told that P&G
didn’t sell wholesale to businesses that were less than two
years old, much less to homemakers’ garages.  “It kind of made for a chicken-and-egg problem,” Lore
says.  Unable to buy from the major manufacturers, Lore and
Bharara forged a practical solution. When an order came into the
website, DePaola would run down to the local  BJ’s Wholesale Club
Inc.  store in her minivan to pick up diapers. Then she would
ship them out.  Orders started to come in almost as soon as the site went
live. By the end of the first week, she was shipping 20 to 30
packages a night. While the partners lost money on every
shipment, they learned that there was a market for diapers on
the Internet. They began with a few hundred thousand dollars in
seed money, which they spent, and then raised $4 million, and
later $54 million, in venture financing.  “Our gross margins at the beginning were 4 percent,” Lore
says. “We were losing money on every package.”  Renting U-Haul Truck  After a one-line item ran in Babytalk magazine, about six
weeks in, DePaola was shipping 180 packages a night and could no
longer fit all the diapers she needed into her minivan -- so she
got her father, who had a GMC Envoy, to help. They would push
cases of diapers through the store and customers would make
jokes like, “Triplets, eh?” Eventually she had to start
renting trucks from U-Haul and clearing out the entire store.
Then she bought from Costco and BJ’s stores farther away.  Losing money on each shipment increased their cash flow, as
they were buying on credit cards with standard 30-day billing
periods and selling for payments that came through in two days.  “Pretty soon, we would clear out all the stores in a
hundred-mile radius,” Lore says.  The diapers filled DePaola’s garage and started to pile up
on the lawn, until one night, when it was about to rain, they
realized they needed a real warehouse.  P&G Account  DePaola also provided the customer service. One customer
who called frequently was amazed that she “always got Gina.”
Others would demand to speak with the manager, and DePaola would
put the phone down, wait a little bit, and then come back as
“the manager.”  Around that time, after about five months, Cincinnati-based
 P&G  figured out that the business was for real and gave them an
account. By the end of the first year, they had brought in about
$2 million in revenue and lost all their investment.  In 2006, after raising the $4 million in capital, they did
$11 million in revenue and had rented a warehouse in Virginia.
In 2007, they purchased the Diapers.com domain name, though they
won’t say for how much.  Their headquarters since April 2010 has been a 30,000-
square-foot space in a tower in Jersey City overlooking
Manhattan, where 85 representatives handle customer questions.
There, Lore and Bharara share an office, and even a landline.
DePaola doesn’t work for Quidsi anymore. She isn’t forgotten,
however; the conference room in headquarters is named after her.
Quidsi now has about 550 employees.  ‘Sensei Bezos’  On a perfect July day, Bharara drives out from his
apartment in Manhattan and picks up Lore in Mountain Lakes, New
Jersey, for the two-hour drive to the new Gouldsboro warehouse.
In Mountain Lakes, Lore takes the wheel, and the two spend the
greater part of the trip deep in discussion about two of the
topics that interest them most -- baseball and Amazon Chief
Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos .  Bezos has been on their minds as both a hero and a rival
since they founded Diapers.com. When they talk about him, it is
with self-mocking reverence. Lore calls him “Sensei Bezos.”  “We’re obsessed with Amazon” he says. “We study it like
crazy.”  Lore says he recently read every  annual report  since 1996.  “It’s interesting to read all those 10-Ks in a row,” Lore
says. “They were doing so many things so soon.”  Tuesday Strategy Meeting  Lore has just finished reading a 2007 Harvard Business
Review interview with Bezos, and he passes it to Bharara, who
starts right in on it.  “He has a senior team strategy meeting every Tuesday, just
like we do,” Bharara says.  He reads for a bit more, then adds: “He talks about the
marketplace; it’s so clear his No. 1 thing is selection.”  “We know that, too,” Lore says.  They’re deep in a conversation that seems to have lasted
for much of their lives. After grammar school, they also went to
high school together, and though they went to different
colleges, they were in the same state -- Lore at Bucknell
University, Bharara at the University of Pennsylvania -- and
worked it out so that they could spend a year abroad together in
Sweden.  After college, Lore went to work for Bankers Trust --
“Bezos worked at Bankers Trust,” Bharara said in an earlier
meeting -- and Bharara went to Columbia Law School and then to a
law firm in New York. In 2000, they teamed up to start
ThePit.com, a site that lets sports fans trade players like
stocks. It was bought by Topps, the playing-card manufacturer.  Missed the Exit  With so much history, it frequently happens that a topic
carries them away and they forget the rest of the world.  On their last trip down, they missed the exit to the
warehouse. Not long ago, the two were in Lore’s car on the way
to a meeting at P&G’s distribution center in Mehoopany,
Pennsylvania, and, while in the middle of a discussion, ran out
of gas. After the meeting, the P&G executives honored them with
a souvenir gas can.  Their conversations about baseball reflect a quantitative
view of the world. They discuss earned-run averages, and more
arcane data like slugging percentages, the number of long balls
given up, and the OPS, or On-base Plus Slugging statistic.  “It’s a nice number because it combines the ability to
power hit with the ability to get on base,” Lore says. “For a
mainstream statistic, it’s one of the best.”  23 Box Sizes  Lore has a mind for math -- he worked in risk management at
 Credit Suisse  -- and much of Quidsi’s success seems to rely on
his gift for precision. The company, for instance, has specified
23 different sizes of boxes to ship in, and has designed a
software program that knows the dimensions of each ordered
product and can fit them into the smallest possible box, which
saves on shipping.  The boxes are automatically made at the warehouse and
delivered to the pickers by the robots. Quite often, though, the
pickers have to work a bit to figure out how the computer wanted
the items arranged; it’s a little like a three-dimensional
jigsaw puzzle.  Lore has also developed an algorithm for figuring when and
how much stock to reorder for a particular item. The goal is to
find the sweet spot between having enough on hand and not tying
up too much cash in inventory.  ‘Joint Probability Distribution’  He figures out when to order by building a “joint
probability distribution,” which merges the chance that a
product will see a sales surge with the chance that a vendor
will take too long to deliver new stock. If you combine these
probabilities, you can determine when to order -- and be right a
certain percentage of the time. If you order far more than you
need, for example, you’ll be right virtually all of the time, at
a cost. If you order just a bit more than you usually need,
you’ll be fine 95 percent of the time.  Once Lore has decided on a range of percentages that he can
live with, say an 85 percent-to-95 percent probability that
he’ll have enough in stock, he ends up with a range of units he
can order to be happy.  Pinpointing a final number -- his “ideal economic order
quantity” -- requires yet another algorithm, which takes into
account the size of the order as well as the savings on dealer
discounts and shipping, and balances all that against the cost
of the cash outlay and the time the order will take to sell
through.  They obsess about sending stuff out, too.  “Shipping is really interesting,” Bharara says on the
drive to the warehouse. “We spend a lot of time talking about
shipping.”  Within an Hour  Soon they’re discussing whether they can figure out a way
to get orders to people, in Manhattan at least, within an hour,
which leads to a long discussion about what to use for the
deliveries -- pedicabs? -- where to store the items, and whether
to guarantee the one-hour delivery time.  They see shipping as their advantage. Quidsi will ship
orders over $49 for free with a delivery time of two days, with
74 percent of their shipments going out overnight. Seattle-based
 Amazon , through its Prime program, which costs $79 a year to
join, will offer two-day shipping as a standard option.  Until recently, Quidsi sold through Amazon as an associate,
much as  Target Corp.  and Drugstore.com do, under the
1800diapers.com name. It stopped, saying the fees “killed”
profits there.  Two-day Delivery  While Amazon offers many items that you can get in two
days, Quidsi’s focus on diapers allows it to excel in that one
area. Quidsi uses different shippers to deliver to different
places, depending on the rates, which vary by zone. If they can
save money by filling their own truck with orders and driving
them from one zone to another, they’ll do that.  Lore returns, inevitably, to the topic of Amazon.  “In 1997, they had $60 million in sales and 137 employees,
and Barnes & Noble was going to start selling books online, and
some analyst called them Amazon.toast,” he says.  “Hey!” shouts Bharara, twisting in his seat. “We missed
the exit!”  Quidsi has a chance to compete with Amazon because it’s
specialized, says Jordan Rohan, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus.
Though Quidsi isn’t a publicly traded company, Rohan says he
watches it closely, and not only because he’s ordered about
$1,000 worth of diapers, formula, and wipes from them since his
son was born.  Recognized Brand  “I’ve seen everything from Pets.com to every other crazy
idea go up and down,” says Rohan, who has covered Internet
retail since 1999. “At first, you’re like, ‘How big could that
be?’ Then you’re like, ‘They’re doing X hundred million in
revenue, how is that possible?’ But this is now a nationally
recognized Internet brand with a decent likelihood of becoming a
billion-dollar-revenue business. I have to respect what they’ve
built so far.”  Focus allowed Zappos.com to dominate the shoe business on
the Internet, a success that led to Amazon’s more than $1
billion purchase of the company in November 2009.  “An intense focus on a category enables efficiencies that
even Amazon would have trouble replicating,” Rohan says. “You
can optimize your business. I think specialization with scale is
going to be the central theme for e-commerce for this decade.”  The introduction of Soap.com has also impressed him.  “Soap.com is doing $1.8 million of revenue in a month, in
its first month,” he says. “That’s $20 million a year. That’s
way more than I expected, and I would call that extraordinarily
successful.”  Three weeks later, in early October, Quidsi estimated it
would do $40 million in sales this year.  “It’s just that many more things a customer can throw in
the box with the diapers,” Lore says.  Specialization Works  Specialization works for companies like Quidsi and Zappos
because they build relationships with recurring customers, and
because they can get their product out quickly.  Bharara and Lore, for instance, are experimenting with
local city storage of most-ordered items, so that a case of
diapers might appear at the door within hours. While Amazon
can’t move its huge selection into urban areas, most Diapers.com
customers are selecting from a small and predictable range.
Specialization also works because you can design a website
targeted to a particular audience. Start at the home page, and
you’re almost done shopping.  Amazon  executives declined to comment for this story. The
company started selling diapers in the summer of 2006, a year
after Diapers.com debuted.  25,000 Products  When Quidsi started Soap.com in July, adding an additional
25,000 products to their lineup, the site was strafed almost
from the minute it went live by price bots dispatched by Amazon.
Quidsi network operators watched in amazement as Amazon pinged
their site to find out what they were charging for each of the
25,000 new items they initially offered, and then adjusted its
prices accordingly. Bharara and Lore knew that would happen.  “If we put something on sale, we usually see Amazon
respond in a couple of hours,” Bharara says.  Or as Rohan puts it: “A price bot attack truly is the
sincerest form of flattery.”  Mick Mountz  is CEO of Kiva Systems, the company that builds
the orange robots in Quidsi’s warehouses. He also worked at
Webvan, the company that lost $1 billion from 1999 to 2001
trying to be the first to build an efficient online grocery-
store delivery system.  “The problem with Webvan was figuring the economics inside
the warehouse,” he says. “Plastic buckets were getting routed
all over, and it could take hours to fill one. We would put one
tote into the conveyor system and it might pop out two and a
half hours later with one tube of toothpaste. There were four
and a half miles of conveyor belts in there.”  Efficiency Problem  So Mountz rethought the Web commerce issue as an efficiency
problem. He says Webvan would still be around if Kiva had
existed in 1999. One of Kiva’s other customers is Zappos.
Amazon, as a whole, however, is not, yet.  So much work has to go into efficiency because shipping
diapers and household goods is a hard way to make money.  Shawn C. Milne  is an Internet analyst at Janney Capital Markets, and
when he talks about Quidsi and Amazon, he talks about scale,
scale, scale.  “It’s all about driving high volume over fixed costs,” he
says, meaning you’ve got to spend a lot and sell a lot. “These
are not 15 to 20 percent operating-margin businesses, these are
5 to 7 percent peak operating margins.”  Still, it’s a return in a business that’s been growing at
around 10 percent annually while retail overall has been
slumping.  ‘Will Amazon Respond?’  “Will Amazon respond by getting more aggressive, or
potentially look at an M&A opportunity?” Milne asks. “We’re
keeping an eye on that. Over time, Amazon will start to take
notice.” Milne, too, orders stuff for his kid from Diapers.com.  While the partners are going back up the interstate, to get
to that missed exit, Lore mentions that he has just finished a
book on  Sam Walton , the founder of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.   “They did $1 billion of business until about 1980,” Lore
says. “In the ‘70s they were growing just like we were growing,
the same numbers exactly, but they were doing every two years
what we’re doing every year.”  Even when Lore is reading about Wal-Mart, he seems to be
reading about Amazon.  “In 1962, when Sam started Wal-Mart, Woolworth’s was the
biggest publicly traded company on the Dow,” he says. Although
it is as hard to imagine a world without Amazon now as it was to
imagine a world without Woolworth’s in 1962, the thought has
occurred to Lore.  Delivery-Time Smackdown  And if Amazon wanted a diaper war, an all-out price and
delivery-time smackdown?  “I would like that,” Bharara says. “I would definitely
take that challenge.”  The two will get their chance. In September, Amazon
introduced Amazon Mom, a program offering a free three-month
trial of Amazon Prime for mothers ordering diapers and other
baby items, and a counter to Diapers.com’s free shipping.
Diapers.com, meanwhile, introduced same-day delivery in
Manhattan and will offer 25,000 toys under the forthcoming
yoyo.com, further challenging Amazon in the battle to sell to
new moms.  The diaper wars are on. 