-- Discover Says U.S. Antitrust Settlement Won't Help Consumers
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-10-07T20:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/discover-says-u-s-antitrust-settlement-won-t-help-consumers.html
U.S. consumers aren’t likely to
benefit from an antitrust settlement that lets merchants offer
rewards and incentives to people who pay with lower-cost credit
cards, according to  Discover Financial Services .  “The merchants don’t want to train clerks to do anything
other than what is core to their business,” said  Diane Offereins , president of payment systems for the Riverwoods,
Illinois-based company, in an interview today. “They don’t want
people dallying in line having conversations over what they’re
going to pull out of their wallets.”  Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc. , the world’s biggest payments
networks, settled the lawsuit filed earlier this week by the
U.S. Justice Department. The companies agreed to lift rules that
barred merchants from steering customers to alternative forms of
payment.  American Express Co. , the No. 3 network, has vowed to
fight the lawsuit. Discover, the fourth-biggest network, wasn’t
named a defendant.  The limited scope of the lawsuit was a setback for
merchants because payments networks will be allowed to keep
rules that bar merchants from surcharging consumers who use
credit cards, Offereins said.  “It really was about surcharging, and the merchants were
fighting very hard for it,” Offereins said. “What you got was
something that took another issue and made it the focal point
and left the elephant in the room off to the side.”  Retail and consumer groups including the National
Federation of Retailers and the Retail Industry Leaders
Association said the settlement was a long-awaited victory.
Attorney General  Eric Holder  said it would benefit consumers.  “We want to put money in consumers’ pockets,” Holder said
at an Oct. 4 news conference announcing the settlement. “By
eliminating credit-card companies’ anticompetitive rules, we
will accomplish that.”  Discover fell 22 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $16.78 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have climbed 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe in New York at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net  