-- Dodging Embarrassment Is Obama Goal for Illinois Race
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-10-07T16:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/dodging-embarrassment-tops-obama-agenda-in-race-for-his-former-senate-seat.html
President  Barack Obama , campaigning
to shave Republican gains in Congress, arrives in his adopted
hometown today to defend one of this election season’s most
coveted jewels: his old U.S. Senate seat.  The president’s  Chicago  appearances at two fundraising
events for Alexi Giannoulias mark his second visit in as many
months for the Democrat seeking the post Obama once held. First
lady  Michelle Obama  is scheduled to stop home next week to boost
Giannoulias.  The first family’s efforts illustrate the struggle polls
show Democrats face in keeping control of all statewide offices
in Illinois. Their visits could rekindle local interest in the
Senate race that has faded amid an unexpected mayoral race that
may feature Obama’s former chief of staff,  Rahm Emanuel .  “We’ve been distracted,” said Alan Gitelson, a political
science professor at Loyola University Chicago. “He takes a
personal interest in the inheritance of his seat. It’s not only
important to him personally, but also symbolically in terms of
how the media and public would look at a loss.”    Mark Kirk , the Republican nominee, and Giannoulias have
spent much of their campaign debating who is the more
scandalized. Giannoulias has dealt with fallout from the failure
in April of a bank his family ran, while Kirk was forced to
apologize for repeatedly exaggerating his biography.  Giannoulias, 34, is the Illinois state treasurer and an
occasional Obama basketball buddy, while Kirk, 51, is a five-
term congressman from Chicago’s northern suburbs. The two are
scheduled to debate this weekend on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  Burning Jet Fuel  Pat Brady, chairman of the  Illinois  Republican Party, told
reporters on a conference call today that Obama’s visit is the
equivalent of a Republican president needing to rally his
political base in a state like Alabama three weeks before an
election.  “They’re burning a lot of jet fuel flying into Illinois,”
said Brady, who’s no relation to the party’s gubernatorial
nominee. “If they have to bring in this kind of horsepower in a
state like Illinois, which has been blue for a while, then the
party in general is in trouble.”  Brady noted the state’s 10.1 percent unemployment rate in
August, Illinois government’s $6.1 billion in unpaid bills and
the fact that it has the largest retirement underfunding among
U.S. states.  “It could not get any worse in Illinois, and the blame for
that mess rests solely on the Democrats,” he said.  Emanuel’s Return  The return of Emanuel to Illinois has motivated
Republicans, Brady said.  “Every time he pops up, that helps both motivate our base,
and it helps my fundraising,” he said.  Emanuel’s potential campaign to replace retiring Mayor  Richard M. Daley  has already drawn one White House staffer back
to Chicago.  Ben LaBolt , one of Obama’s longest serving press
aides, said he would return home later this month to handle
Emanuel’s communications efforts.    Robert Gibbs , Obama’s press secretary, told reporters
yesterday that Obama had no plans to see Emanuel during his
visit. Illinois Governor Pat Quinn, a Democrat trailing in  polls 
against Republican state Senator Bill Brady, will travel with
the president from O’Hare International Airport to downtown
Chicago, Gibbs said.  Obama’s investment of political capital and prestige in the
Senate race in Illinois matches what he has put into the
campaign for Senator  Barbara Boxer  of  California . Boxer is near
the top of the Republican target list.  Dialing for Votes  Plans also call for Obama to record automated phone calls
for Giannoulias next week, said a Democratic official who didn’t
want to be named for fear of angering the White House.  Since June, Giannoulias has had fundraising visits from
Vice President  Joe Biden , U.S. Education Secretary  Arne Duncan ,
Obama senior adviser  David Axelrod , White House Deputy Chief of
Staff  Jim Messina  and 2008 presidential campaign manager  David Plouffe , who is helping the administration in the midterm
elections.  Kirk has banked about $5 million worth of advertisements
for the final weeks of the campaign, spokeswoman Kirsten
Kukowski said. The advertising will be paid for by his campaign
fund and the  National Republican Senatorial Committee , she said.    Kathleen Strand , a Giannoulias spokeswoman, declined to
provide a comparable figure for his campaign.  Outside Influence  Outside groups and political parties have invested heavily
in the race. They spent about $3.4 million in Illinois last
month,  Federal Election Commission  records show. That made it
the fourth-most active state for independent expenditures, which
aren’t coordinated with candidates, after Missouri, Colorado and  Pennsylvania .  Obama’s Chicago visit is part of a White House effort to
fight a tide in November’s congressional elections that
threatens Democratic control of the House and possibly the
Senate. The party’s loss of the Illinois seat would boost
Republican chances of gaining the 10 needed to win a Senate
majority.  A  Rasmussen Reports   poll  taken Oct. 4 showed Kirk with a
statistically insignificant lead, 45 percent to 41 percent, in a
survey with a 4 percentage-point margin of error.  A Chicago Tribune/WGN-TV  poll  taken Sept. 24-28 showed
Giannoulias held a statistically insignificant lead of 38
percent to 36 percent. That survey, which showed 17 percent
undecided, also had a 4 percentage-point error margin.  Third-Party Impact  Both polls showed lesser-known candidates in the race could
play a role, because the margin between the Republican and
Democratic candidates appears close. Green Party candidate
 LeAlan Jones  received 5 percent, while Libertarian candidate
 Mike Labno  drew 3 percent in the Tribune’s poll.  At stake is Obama’s agenda over the next two years as
Republicans try to turn House and Senate races into a referendum
on the president, whether it’s over stimulus spending, automaker
and bank bailouts, or health care.  The president has warned a Republican takeover might mean a
20 percent reduction in education funding, the elimination of
clean-energy incentives and the scaling back of health-care
overhaul.  Obama Trips  Obama’s sixth trip to Chicago since his inauguration in
January 2009 comes as Broadway Bank, the now-defunct institution
Giannoulias’s family operated, has been in the headlines again
because of a Sept. 29 Tribune  story  that reported on a $2.7
million tax deduction the candidate took last year.  Giannoulias has said that he left the troubled bank in late
2005, although his tax documents showed he claimed to have
worked at least 500 hours there in 2006, a time when loans were
made to Antoin “Tony” Rezko, who was later convicted of  influence peddling , and to a family later accused of having
connections to organized crime.  Obama netted about $1 million for Giannoulias when they
last appeared together in Chicago on Aug. 5. Giannoulias raised
less than half as much as Kirk during the quarter that ended
June 30, the most recent total available, and had about one-
fourth as much in the bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@blooomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  