-- Dollar ‘Panic’ Drop to 74 Yen Likely in 2011, Wakabayashi Says
-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2010-10-07T03:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/dollar-panic-drop-to-record-74-yen-is-likely-in-2011-wakabayashi-says.html
The dollar may fall to a record 74
yen by February 2012 as concerns about the U.S.  budget deficit 
weaken its currency, said Eishi Wakabayashi, the strategist who
forecast the yen’s surge to an all-time high in April 1995.  Wakabayashi, head of Tokyo-based Wakabayashi FX Associates
Co., said concerns over the widening  U.S. budget deficit  will
cause “panic” within a year, driving up Treasury yields and
weakening the dollar. This year’s slide in government yields is
likely to reverse as the U.S. economic recovery regains
momentum, he said.  “The U.S. may experience its own version of a sovereign
debt panic from around October next year,” Wakabayashi said.
“A scary phase will start after” the next northern-hemisphere
summer, he said.  The U.S. government has increased the amount of marketable
Treasuries by 62 percent to $8.5 trillion in the past two years.
Interest payments on that debt have fallen as yields on 10-year
Treasury notes, a benchmark for everything from home mortgages
to corporate bonds, dropped by more than 1.4 percentage points
this year. Money has flooded into Treasuries on expectations a
slumping economy will spur the  Federal Reserve  to purchase more
government debt to revive growth.  The dollar traded at 82.91 yen as of 12:29 p.m. in Tokyo.
It weakened to 82.77 yen yesterday, the least since May 1995 and
below the level reached Sept. 15 when Japan intervened in the  currency market  to sell yen for the first time in six years. The
dollar may decline to about 81 yen by early November,
Wakabayashi said.  Record-Low Yields  U.S. two- and five-year yields are near record lows, while
10-year yields fell yesterday to the least since January 2009.
Wakabayashi said the Treasury market is “completely a bubble.”  Yields will rise after November’s Federal Open Market
Committee meeting and midterm elections as it becomes apparent
that the  U.S. economy  isn’t deteriorating as much as the market
expects, he said.  An advance in Treasury yields amid receding concerns over
an economic slowdown would likely prompt concerns that the U.S.
will struggle to rein in its budget deficit, spurring a sell-off
of bonds and the dollar, Wakabayashi said.  The Bank of Japan hasn’t done enough to lift the economy
while the nation has been suffering from a strengthening yen and
deflation for 20 years, Wakabayashi said. The  Bank of Japan  Law
should be revised so that the bank will focus on not just price
stability but also on maximum employment, similar to the Federal
Reserve’s mandate, he said.  The BOJ this week cut the overnight call rate target to a
range of 0 percent to 0.1 percent, the lowest level since 2006,
from 0.1 percent. Policy makers will set up a 5 trillion yen
($60 billion) fund to buy  government bonds  and other assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 