-- Dollar May Fall Further as Not Oversold, JPMorgan Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-07T11:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/dollar-may-fall-further-as-not-oversold-jpmorgan-says-technical-analysis.html
The U.S.  dollar  may fall further as
trading patterns suggest it’s not yet “oversold,” according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Any gain in the dollar should be taken as an opportunity to
add to a short position, or a bet that the asset will decline,
the bank said.  The currency dropped to a 15-year low against the yen today
amid growing expectations the Federal Reserve will expand credit
easing to sustain the U.S. recovery. The dollar fell 8.4 percent
against its major trading peers in the past three months, making
it the worst-performing currency during that period, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  “While our short-term momentum metrics are oversold, the
more important medium-term studies have yet to reach an oversold
extreme,”  Niall O’Connor , a technical analyst at JPMorgan in
New York, wrote in a research note received today. “There is
still little evidence of a sustained reversal at this point.”  The dollar declined 0.5 percent against the yen to 82.49
yen as of 11:30 a.m. in London. One euro fetched $1.3977 from
$1.3930 yesterday.  The moving average convergence divergence charts, or MACD,
one of the tools O’Connor used for the analysis, is calculated
by subtracting the 26-day exponential moving average from the
12-day average. A nine-day moving average of the MACD, called
the signal line, is plotted on top of the MACD, functioning as a
trigger for buy or sell signals.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles in London at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 