-- Dollar Trades Near Lowest Since 1995 Versus Yen on Bets Fed to Ease Policy
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i
-- 2010-10-08T07:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/dollar-trades-near-lowest-since-1995-versus-yen-on-bets-fed-to-ease-policy.html
The dollar traded near the lowest
level since 1995 against the yen on concern the Federal Reserve
will debase its currency by stepping up purchases of government
debt to bolster an economic recovery.  The euro was close to the highest since January before a
report forecast to show the U.S. jobless rate rose for a second
month. The 16-nation single currency was set for its fourth
straight weekly gain against the dollar, the longest run since
Dec. 2008. Australia’s dollar was set for an eight-week rally
versus the greenback after climbing to a record yesterday. The
yen maintained three days of gains against the U.S. currency on
expectations Japan will refrain from intervening before today’s
meeting of Group-of-Seven industrialized nations in Washington.  “The Fed has talked about taking further monetary policy
action to support the economy if necessary,” said  Ralf Umlauf ,
head of floor research at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in
Frankfurt. “Today’s labor data will be particularly important.
If they are disappointing, there will be growing speculation of
further liquidity measures from the Fed, with negative
consequences for the dollar.”  The dollar stood at 82.40 yen as of 8:01 a.m. in London
from 82.41 yen in New York yesterday when it touched 82.11 yen,
the lowest since May 1995. The euro traded at $1.3924, compared
with $1.3926 yesterday when it reached $1.4029, the highest
since Jan. 28. The euro was at 114.73 yen from 114.75 yen.  Australia’s currency fetched 98.02 U.S. cents from 98.25
cents yesterday when it touched 99.18, the most since exchange
controls ended in 1983.  Yields, Fed Bets  U.S. private nonfarm payrolls rose by 75,000 in September
after an increase of 67,000 in the previous month, according to
the median forecast of 60 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before today’s report from the Labor Department. The jobless
rate is expected to increase to 9.7 percent from 9.6 percent.  Futures on the CME Group exchange show a 32 percent chance
the Fed will cut its target rate for overnight bank lending to
zero by November, up from a 26 percent probability a month ago.
The rate is currently in a range from zero to 0.25 percent.  The yen climbed versus the dollar to stronger than the
level reached Sept. 15, when Japan acknowledged intervening in
the currency market to protect its export-dependent economy.
Japan’s Vice Finance Minister  Fumihiko Igarashi  said yesterday
that “it’s not our intention to engage in a currency-
devaluation race.”  “Investors now feel that Japan won’t dare to intervene,
given the risk of international criticism at the meeting,” said
 Masahiro Ito , a Tokyo-based senior manager of foreign-exchange
sales and marketing at Central Tanshi FX Co., a unit of Japan’s
largest money broker.  ‘Unwind Longs’  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who chairs the G-7
gathering, said this week that “there are concerns about
interventions in currency markets” and that he’s “sure” the
issue will be discussed. Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
warned on Sept. 27 of a “currency war.”  Losses in the dollar were tempered on speculation traders
will reduce holdings of the euro and the yen before today’s G-7
meeting and a three-day weekend for the U.S. and Japan.  “There’s a good chance that players may unwind longs in
the euro and the yen,” said  Yuji Saito , director of the
foreign-exchange department at Credit Agricole Corporate and
Investment Bank in Tokyo. “The euro and yen also had rapid
gains this week. This could lead to buying of the dollar.”  The euro reached its strongest level against the dollar
since January yesterday after European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said policy makers remained committed to
phasing out their unlimited lending program.  ECB Tenders  Trichet signaled no intention to loosen monetary policy and
said the ECB will keep gradually phasing out its non-standard
liquidity measures. While the ECB has phased out its 12- and 6-
month loans, it still lends unlimited amounts in its weekly,
monthly and three-month tenders, and has pledged to keep doing
so into early 2011.  Trichet was speaking in Frankfurt after the central bank
kept its main refinancing rate at a record low 1 percent.  Futures traders increased bets to the most in almost a year
that the euro will gain against the dollar, figures from the
 Commodity Futures Trading Commission  showed on Oct. 1.  The  difference  in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on an advance in the euro compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 35,330 on Sept.
28, the highest amount since Oct. 20, 2009, compared with net
longs of 5,097 a week earlier.  Futures positions, when they reach an extreme, are
sometimes viewed as a contrarian indicator because traders often
seek to cut positions when momentum in a currency shifts. A long
position is a bet on an asset price’s gain.  Aussie Rally  The so-called Aussie traded within two U.S. cents of parity
with the U.S. currency amid speculation the Reserve Bank of
Australia will resume raising interest rates as the Fed expands
monetary easing.  “We are going to try parity this year,” said  Greg Gibbs ,
a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
Sydney. “The U.S. economy is going to grow tepidly below trend
and they are going to continue to push the envelope on
quantitative policy easing.”  There is a 58 percent  probability  the Reserve Bank of
Australia will raise borrowing costs on Nov. 2, according to
swap indexes by Credit Suisse Group AG. The probability was 41
percent on Oct. 6, a day before the government said Australia’s
employers added 49,500 workers in September, more than double
the median estimate from economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  