-- Dubai's Sheikh Mohammed Still Committed to Horseracing After Spending Cut
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-10-08T13:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/dubai-s-sheikh-mohammed-cuts-spending-on-young-racehorses-by-70-percent.html
Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum , the ruler of Dubai, remains committed to horse-racing
even after slashing his spending on young horses by 60 percent
this week at Europe’s largest bloodstock auction, his chief
buyer said.  Sheikh Mohammed, the world’s biggest racehorse owner, and
his associates spent 3.21 million guineas ($5.4 million) on 24
yearlings during a three-day auction at Tattersalls in
Newmarket, eastern England, that ended yesterday. That compares
with 8.16 million guineas on more than 43 thoroughbred horses
during the same sale last year, Europe’s biggest bloodstock
auctioneer said.  “We have bought less horses this year mainly because of
our acquisition of Stonerside Farm in the U.S. which has meant
that we have more homebred yearlings then before and there is a
limit on the number we can put in training,” John Ferguson,
Sheikh Mohammed’s main bloodstock adviser and buyer, said in an
e-mail today.  “I confirm that Sheikh Mohammed’s commitments worldwide to
racing and breeding remains as strong as ever,” Ferguson said.  The drop in spending by the Dubai ruler comes less than a
year after his emirate’s state-controlled holding company, Dubai
World, roiled world markets by saying it would seek to delay
debt repayments. The announcement stoked concern that a
potential default would set back the global financial system’s
recovery from the credit crunch.  Stable Purchase  Sheikh Mohammed’s Darley operation bought the Stonerside
Stable, located in Kentucky and South Carolina, in September
2008 for an undisclosed sum from  Robert McNair , the owner of the
National Football League’s Houston Texans, the  Thoroughbred
Times  reported at the time. The deal included 80 horses in
training as well as 170 broodmares, yearlings and weanlings.
Darley had paid $17.5 million for Stonerside’s farm and training
center in Saratoga Springs, New York in January 2007, the
publication said.  Ferguson said he had also bought fewer young, untrained
throroughbreds because  Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum ,
Sheikh Mohammed’s brother, was also present at Tattersalls to
buy horses for his own operation.  “Naturally we do not bid against him and so we enjoyed
watching him buy many of the better horses,” Ferguson said.  Sheikh Hamdan, who was the top buyer at Tattersalls this
week as he spent 5.2 million guineas on 20 yearlings, owns four
centers in the U.K. that make up the Shadwell Stud. He also owns
operations in Ireland and Lexington, Kentucky.  Realistic Expectation  The price for yearlings is quoted in English guineas --
equivalent to one pound and five pence. The guinea, no longer in
use, was the unit of currency often paid to artists and
professionals.  Godolphin, the Maktoum family’s private horseracing stable,
has raced 284 horses so far this year, according to its  website .  “Every sale, you want the key indicators -- turnover,
average and median -- to rise, but that’s not necessarily a
realistic expectation in the current economic climate,” Jimmy
George, marketing director at Tattersalls, said in an interview
in Newmarket on Oct. 6. “We probably outperformed the market
last year.”  Total sales at the auction this year were 48.2 million
guineas, 10 percent less than last year. The median price paid
for a yearling declined 10 percent to 70,000 guineas.  ‘Selective Market’  “A few years ago you could bring anything here and it
would go for huge sums,”  Harry Herbert , managing director of
Newbury, England-based Highclere Thoroughbred Racing, said in an
interview at Tattersalls on Oct. 6. “But now, it’s a very
selective market place.”  Sheikh Mohammed told Bloomberg News last month that the
emirate is recovering after Dubai World reached a debt-
restructuring settlement with creditors.  “We are back,” Sheikh Mohammed said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With  Margaret Brennan ” at
the FEI World Equestrian Games in Lexington, Kentucky, on Sept.
26. “This is a challenge. Life would be boring if there’s no
challenge.”  Tattersalls’ annual sale of the best young racehorses in
Europe is an important gauge of confidence in a sport dominated
by the Dubai ruler and Irish millionaires John Magnier and J.P.
McManus.  On the first day of the auction, Magnier’s Coolmore
operation spent 1.2 million guineas on a filly by his leading
stallion Galileo, the highest price paid for a yearling in
Europe since 2007. Magnier also bought the top lot on the second
day of the sales, another Galileo filly, for 900,000 guineas.  Market Openings  A drop in spending by the Maktoum family may give other
buyers a chance to buy better horses,  Andrew Tinkler , chief
executive officer of Warrington, U.K.-based logistics company
Stobard Group, said in an interview at Tattersalls on Oct. 6.  “The horse industry does need people like Sheikh Mohammed
in there to keep it alive,” said Tinkler, who has built a
stable of 60 racehorses, yearlings and broodmares in the past
three years. “But it gives us newcomers a chance to actually
get more involved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in Newmarket through the London
newsroom on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  