-- Tea Prices May Climb as India Output Hit by Crop Damage, Labor Costs Rise
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-10-07T22:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/tea-prices-may-climb-as-india-output-hit-by-crop-damage-labor-costs-rise.html
Tea prices in India, the biggest
grower after China, may climb as labor costs rise and crop
damage from pest attacks widens a production deficit, according
to the state-run  Tea Board of India .  An wage increase at gardens in West Bengal from April will
force  McLeod Russel India Ltd. , the largest tea plantation
owner, and rivals to lift prices, Tea Board chairman  Basudeb Banerjee  said in a phone interview yesterday. The eastern state
accounts for 20 percent of the nation’s output.  Higher prices may push up costs for companies including
Unilever Plc and  Tata Global Beverages Ltd. , owner of Tetley
brands, and boost profits at Indian growers including McLeod and
 Jayshree Tea & Industries Ltd.  The nation’s output fell for
three straight months through August as pests damaged plants in
Assam, which accounts for more than half the country’s crop.  “The production shortfall this year in India is going to
widen the inventory pipeline and that will ensure prices stay
high,” said  Aditya Khaitan , McLeod’s managing director.  The supply deficit may widen to as much as 100 million
kilos by March and April, from 60 million kilos this year, he
said, repeating an estimate made last month. Output this year
may be 10 million to 15 million kilos lower than last year’s 979
million kilos, Tea Board’s Banerjee said.  Prices have climbed by 15 rupees to 20 rupees a kilo to 150
rupees to 180 rupees in north India, said Khaitan.  A rebound in output in Kenya, the biggest producer of black
tea, and Sri Lanka, the second-biggest supplier, won’t ease the
Indian shortage, as the Asian nation imposes a 100 percent tax
on imports, Khaitan said.  Kenyan Output  Kenya’s output may jump 11 percent this year to 350 million
kilos, from 314 million kilos last year, the nation’s tea board
said Sept. 30. Sri Lanka’s  harvest  increased 21 percent to 221.3
million kilograms from January to September, data from the
nation’s tea board show.  India produced 584.9 million kilos in the January-to-August
period, 1.7 percent lower than a year ago, the tea board said
yesterday. Shipments advanced 8 percent to 124.1 million kilos
from 114.7 million a year earlier, the board said.  Exports this year may be little changed from last year’s
198 million kilos, Banerjee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  