-- EDF May Fight Constellation on Option to Buy Power Stations, Analyst Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-10-07T09:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/edf-may-challenge-constellation-on-power-plant-option-bofa-says.html
Electricite de France SA , the world’s
biggest operator of nuclear reactors, may mount a legal
challenge should Constellation Energy Group Inc. demand the
Paris-based company pay $2 billion for U.S. power plants under a
2008 agreement, Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts said.  Constellation “has the contractual right” expiring at
year-end to sell non-nuclear plants to EDF,  Lawrence McDonnell ,
a spokesman for the Baltimore-based utility owner said. No
decision has been made whether to exercise the so-called “put”
option, part of a 2008 agreement in which EDF paid $4.5 billion
for a half stake in the U.S. company’s reactors, he said. The
deal kept EDF’s nuclear foothold in the U.S., thwarting a
takeover by  Warren Buffett ’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co.  EDF would look for new U.S. partners to build reactors
should arrangements with Constellation collapse, according to
the Oct. 4  note  by analyst  Ameet Thakkar , citing an analyst
lunch with EDF Group Senior Executive Vice President of Finance
 Thomas Piquemal .  “EDF believes it has the means to mount a legal challenge
to CEG should it exercise the sale option based on the original
intent of the agreement,” Thakkar said.  Weighing on both companies is a delay by the Energy
Department in Washington in awarding what will probably be the
last federal loan guarantee for a new nuclear plant authorized
by Congress. Both say the guarantee is crucial to their first
project, which would use European-designed reactors.  Should Constellation exercise the $2 billion option, EDF
would be willing to sell the reactor stake for an “adequate”
offer and divest its 8.5 percent stake in the Baltimore-based
company, Thakkar said. EDF is Constellation’s largest
shareholder.  ‘Necessary Hurdle’  Constellation’s McDonnell wouldn’t comment on whether the
companies are discussing the put option, nor would  Carole Trivi ,
an EDF spokeswoman.  The loan guarantee is a “necessary hurdle” for the
partners’ first project, expansion of a Maryland nuclear plant,
Chief Executive Officer  Mayo Shattuck  told investors July 28.
The company had expected a conditional loan commitment in this
year’s first half, well before it had to decide on whether to
exercise its so-called “put” option to EDF, he said.  Constellation is considering “collectively” its overall
partnerships with EDF and right to sell the assets, Chief
Financial Officer  Jonathan Thayer  said at a Sept. 29 investor
conference.  “These things can tend to get contentious,” he said.
“There is an optimal outcome that addresses all of those
stakeholders and shame on us if we don’t get there.”  June Meeting  The option wasn’t discussed at a June meeting between EDF
Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  and Constellation senior
management, Thakkar wrote. Bank of America has a neutral rating
on Constellation stock.  “We think this process will continue to evolve over the
next few weeks,” Thakkar wrote.  Now Constellation’s largest shareholder, EDF would view a
demand that it buy the additional U.S. plants as a hostile move
jeopardizing the nuclear partnership, people familiar with the
situation said last month.  EDF countered, saying it needed to protect the American
reactor joint venture, UniStar Nuclear LLC.  EDF reported a 47 percent drop in first-half profit and
took a provision of 1.1 billion euros ($1.47 billion) related to
its holding in Constellation. Based in Paris, EDF owns 8.4
percent of Constellation shares and has a seat on the board.  As well as its half of Constellation’s existing nuclear
business, EDF holds 50 percent of UniStar Nuclear Energy LLC.
UniStar is seeking to develop the Calvert Cliffs reactor. EDF’s
Piquemal said in July the utility retains its “ambition” to
pursue the Maryland reactor project.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  