-- Hedge Funds Rebound Near Pre-Crisis Levels With September Gains, HFR Says
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2010-10-07T22:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/hedge-funds-rebound-near-peak-before-financial-crisis-with-september-gains.html
Hedge funds rose 3.4 percent in
September, the most since May 2009, bringing them close to their
peak before the financial crisis, Hedge Fund Research Inc. said.  September gains in the  HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index ,
which tracks more than 2,200 hedge funds, reflect a surge in
global equity markets, the Chicago-based research firm said
today in an e-mailed statement. Stocks worldwide advanced 9.1
percent in September, the best month in more than a year.  “It’s kind of a big deal,”  Ken Heinz , president of HFR,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s sort of an aggregate
milestone. September was a breakout and hopefully the beginning
of a trend for equity markets and overall actively managed hedge
funds.”  The firm’s composite index rose to 10,404.71, the highest
level since it reached a record 10,413.66 in October 2007. The
industry returned 4.6 percent since the start of the year. The
 HRFI Equity Hedge Index , comprising funds that invest mainly in
stocks, both long and short, contributed most to the composite’s
September gain, rising 4.5 percent. The equity index is up 3.5
percent this year.  Funds focusing on growth stocks, or companies with fast-
growing earnings, increased 6.3 percent, while those
specializing in energy and materials industries added 5.9
percent. Funds that sell shares short, anticipating a decline,
lost 11 percent in the month.  Macro funds, whose managers seek to profit from global
themes or trends, gained 3.1 percent last month.  Funds  that try
to capitalize on company events such as mergers, spinoffs and
earnings reports rose 2.2 percent.  Relative value  funds , whose managers aim to profit from a
valuation discrepancy in the relationship between multiple
securities, returned 1.4 percent last month to bring gains for
the year to 7.8 percent, the largest of any strategy.  Funds of hedge funds  increased 2.4 percent in September,
also the strongest gain since May 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  