-- Lehman's U.K. Business Loses $1.1 Billion Lawsuit Against Germany Unit
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-10-07T17:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/lehman-s-u-k-business-loses-1-1-billion-lawsuit-against-germany-unit.html
A Frankfurt court today rejected an
802 million-euros ($1.1 billion) claim Lehman Brothers
International Europe, the bank’s London-based unit, made against
Lehman Brothers Bankhaus AG in Germany.  The Frankfurt Regional Court issued its ruling in the case
today without specifying its reasons, Joachim Kuehne, a lawyer
for the administrator of Lehman Brothers Bankhaus, said in an
interview. The ruling affirms the German affiliate’s previous
rejection of a claim by LBIE, the London-based unit of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. , seeking the return of what it said were
client funds, LBIE’s U.K. administrator PricewaterhouseCoopers
said in a statement on  its website .  “The U.K. unit argued that we were holding a trust for
them,” Kuehne said. “We denied that and the court apparently
followed our arguments and fully rejected the case.”  Lehman International, which ran Lehman’s London-based prime
brokerage, had about 3,500 hedge funds and other asset managers
as clients. The U.K. unit’s failure froze at least $65 billion
in brokerage assets and clients are still trying to recover
funds.  The U.K. administrators “are disappointed with the court’s
decision and expect to make an appeal upon receipt of the
written grounds for the judgment,” PwC said in the statement.
“Without a successful appeal there is a low likelihood of any
financial recovery.”  A London court ruled in August that CRC Credit Fund Ltd.,
Lehman Brothers Inc. and Lehman Brothers Finance AG can have
access to billions of dollars deposited with LBIE that wasn’t
protected in separate accounts. As a result PwC must find all
the money that wasn’t segregated and pool it with client funds
that were kept separate.  The case is LG Frankfurt, 23 O 385/09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 