-- Embassy Bombing Witness Barred in Trial by Judge Is `Critical,' U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/embassy-bombing-witness-barred-in-trial-by-judge-is-critical-u-s-says.html
A witness the U.S. says is
“critical” to its case against  Ahmed Ghailani , an alleged
terrorist charged with bombing two U.S. embassies, can’t testify
because Ghailani was “coerced” into disclosing the man’s
identity, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in New York yesterday
rejected a request by prosecutors to allow Hussein Abebe, a
Tanzanian miner, to testify that he sold five crates of dynamite
to Ghailani before the 1998 blasts in Tanzania and Kenya. Kaplan
ruled that Abebe’s testimony is too closely tied to coerced
statements made by Ghailani while he was in CIA custody and must
be excluded from the trial.  “The court has not reached this conclusion lightly,”
Kaplan said. “It is acutely aware of the perilous nature of the
world in which we live. But the Constitution is the rock upon
which our nation rests. We must follow it not only when it is
convenient, but when fear and danger beckon in a different
direction.”  The judge postponed the start of Ghailani’s trial from
yesterday to Oct. 12. The decision marked a setback for
prosecutors, who told Kaplan that Abebe is the only person who
could give a first-hand account of Ghailani’s role in the
attacks.  Abebe was set to testify that he “sold substantial
quantities of explosives, detonation cord and electric
detonators to the defendant prior to the embassy bombings,”
according to a government memo filed with Kaplan last month
under seal because it contained classified information.  “Without Abebe’s testimony, the jury will hear no evidence
regarding the defendant’s purchase of crates of explosives,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney  Michael Farbiarz  wrote in the memo,
which was unsealed yesterday.  Bomb ‘Factory’  The witness’s testimony could be corroborated with evidence
that includes business records as well as clothing “covered in
TNT residue” found by U.S. investigators during a 1998 search
of Ghailani’s home in Tanzania, Farbiarz said. Bomb detonators
of the kind that Abebe would testify he sold to Ghailani were
found in a “factory” where the Tanzania bomb was built and in
a cabinet in Ghailani’s residence, the prosecutor said.  Abebe’s testimony “is essential to any full and fair
understanding of the defendant’s role in the embassy bombings,”
Farbiarz wrote.  Ghailani, 36, is the first detainee held in Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, to be tried in a U.S. civilian court. He is charged with
participating in a global conspiracy with al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden  that includes the Aug. 7, 1998, bombings at U.S.
embassies in Tanzania and Kenya that killed 224 people,
including 12 Americans. At least 5,000 others were injured.  ‘Not Torture’  “This case will be tried upon lawful evidence. Not
torture. Not coercion,” Ghailani’s lawyer, Peter Quijano, said
at a news conference after yesterday’s ruling.  Ghailani’s lawyers had argued their client’s statements
about Abebe were made “under duress” when he was held in
Central Intelligence Agency custody from 2004 to 2006 after he
was captured.  “For our system of justice to work, the Fifth Amendment
must apply to Ahmed Ghailani, as much as to any other defendant
before the bar of justice,” Quijano said. “It is the
Constitution that won a great victory today.”  Ghailani, a Tanzanian national, is accused of helping to
deliver bomb-making components, including TNT and oxygen tanks,
in a truck detonated outside the U.S. embassy in Dar es Salaam,
Tanzania, on Aug. 7, 1998. Another bomb went off almost
simultaneously outside the U.S. embassy in Nairobi, Kenya.  Bin Laden Bodyguard  He fled after the bombings, the U.S. says. He served as a
cook and bodyguard for  bin Laden  and later as a document forger,
prosecutors said. A federal grand jury in New York indicted him
in December 1998.  Ghailani was captured in Pakistan in July 2004 and held by
the CIA at “black sites” where he was subjected to “enhanced
interrogation techniques,” the U.S. has said. While in CIA
custody, his defense lawyers say he was “tortured.”  He was taken to Guantanamo Bay in September 2006 and
transferred to federal court in New York last year for trial,
after the Obama administration said it planned to close
Guantanamo and try some terrorism suspects held there in
civilian courts.  The U.S. said Abebe cooperated willingly and that he wasn’t
coerced. Prosecutors have previously told Kaplan they wouldn’t
use Ghailani’s confessions because they were obtained under
coercion by the CIA.  Kaplan said the court “now finds and concludes that the
government has failed to prove that Abebe’s testimony is
sufficiently attenuated from Ghailani’s coerced statements to
permit its receipt in evidence.”  Future Prosecutions  The decision may affect decisions for future prosecutions
of alleged terrorists in civilian court, Barkow said in a phone
interview. He compared the current case with the trial of four
alleged co-conspirators in 2001 who were accused of conspiring
with bin Laden in a global conspiracy to kill U.S. nationals.
They were convicted in New York federal court and are all
serving life sentences.  “In the first trial, the government had the confessions of
nearly all of the defendants,” said  Anthony Barkow , a former
federal prosecutor who handled terrorism cases and now directs a
center on criminal prosecutions at New York University Law
School. “They didn’t have that here, but they had a witness who
would be able to say he sold Ghailani explosives.”  “That is really important and powerful testimony,” Barkow
said. “So it does appear to be a significant ruling and a
significant loss” for the government.  Yesterday’s ruling leaves intact the 286 federal counts
against Ghailani. He faces as long as life in prison if
convicted of the most serious charge of conspiracy to kill U.S.
nationals. He has pleaded not guilty. Even if he is acquitted of
all charges, it is unlikely he will be freed, the judge said.  ‘Prisoner of War’  “His status as an ‘enemy combatant’ probably would permit
his detention as something akin to a prisoner of war until
hostilities between the United States and al-Qaeda and the
Taliban end even if he were found not guilty in this case,”
Kaplan wrote.  Jessie Erwin, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , said the office didn’t have an immediate comment
on yesterday’s ruling or whether the U.S. will appeal.  U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  called Kaplan’s decision
“one ruling in one case by one judge” and he said the
government intends to proceed with the trial.  “The true test is how these cases are resolved,” he said
at a news conference. “It’s too early to say the Ghailani
matter will not be successful.”  ‘Thoughtful Review’  In court, Farbiarz asked Kaplan to postpone the trial,
saying he needed to review the full opinion.  “The government, in a setting as consequential as this
one, wants to make a thoughtful review,” Farbiarz said.  Kaplan previously ruled in favor of the U.S. and refused to
dismiss the indictment as a violation of Ghailani’s right to a
speedy trial. He also rejected a defense claim of outrageous
government misconduct.  Three years ago, Kaplan ruled against the U.S. in a high-
profile prosecution of 17 ex-KPMG LLP executives charged in the
largest tax-shelter case in U.S. history.  Kaplan dismissed charges against 13 defendants in July
2007, saying prosecutors violated their right to counsel. That
decision was upheld by a federal appeals court in August 2008.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-1023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York Federal Court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York Federal Court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 