-- Developing Nation Growth Slowing as Global Trade Loses Steam, HSBC Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2010-10-07T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/emerging-market-growth-slows-as-global-trade-loses-steam-hsbc-report-says.html
Emerging markets probably grew in the
third quarter at the slowest pace in more than a year as global
trade lost steam, HSBC Plc said.  The HSBC Emerging Markets Index, compiled by London-based
Markit Economics based on monthly purchasing managers’ indexes
for manufacturing and services, dropped to 54.3 from 56 in the
previous three months. The last time the index was lower was in
the second quarter of 2009.  “The powerful export momentum seen earlier in the year is
fading fast,”  Stephen King,  HSBC’s London-based chief
economist, said in an e-mailed report. “Business expectations
in services have fallen away quickly so that they are now at
their lowest since the depths of the global financial crisis.
The pace of economic recovery has faded more quickly in the
emerging world than in either the U.S. or the euro zone.”  While Brazil, Russia, India and China, collectively known
as the BRICs, have been driving the world out of the worst
recession since the Great Depression, the growth momentum has
faded after manufacturers replaced inventories and demand fell
short of their expectations, HSBC said. The threat of a new
recession in the U.S., the world’s largest economy, and slowing
growth in Europe, where governments are cutting spending to fend
off a debt crisis, are weighing on the recovery worldwide.  The world economy will expand 4.2 percent next year, the
Washington-based International Monetary Fund said in a report
yesterday, down from its forecast of 4.3 percent three months
ago. The fund projects growth of 4.8 percent this year, up from
4.6 percent.  Power Houses  Nations such as China and  Brazil  have powered the return to
growth, widening a gap with advanced economies from Europe to
the U.S. that are struggling to revive domestic demand, the IMF
said. Developing nations will grow 6.4 percent next year,
unchanged from the previous forecast, while advanced economies
will expand 2.2 percent, down from an earlier 2.4 percent
forecast, the IMF said.  “Structurally, emerging nations are likely to remain in
the driving seat of global growth,” said HSBC’s King. “Having
embarked on economic catch-up, helped by heightened capital
flows and far greater political openness, the chances are that
productivity-driven growth in the emerging nations will continue
to outpace the rate of expansion in the developed world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 