-- Theoria Capital to Double Assets as Multistrategy Hedge Fund Gains 43%
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-10-07T01:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/theoria-plans-to-double-multistrategy-hedge-fund-s-assets-after-43-return.html
Theoria Capital Management Pte, a
Singapore-based hedge fund that trades Japanese equities,
futures and options, plans to double assets in its multistrategy
fund after it returned 43 percent in its first year.  The firm is seeking to grow the Theoria Multi-Strategy Fund
to about $200 million within the next 12 months, said President
 Minoru Umezaki , a former Aizawa Securities Co. proprietary
trader. The fund’s assets have already more than doubled to $115
million, from about $50 million when it was set up a year ago,
the 33-year-old founder said in an interview yesterday.  The fund returned more than 26 percent through August this
year, Umezaki said, compared with a 16 percent drop in Japan’s
benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  in the period. It has gained
about 43 percent since its inception in October 2009 by using a
combination of strategies that allowed it to exploit pricing
inefficiencies between different markets. The fund’s September
returns are being reviewed by its administrator, he said.  “Under any circumstances, we continue to aim to achieve
returns from mispricing, relative under/over
valuation, and micro/macro events with low correlation with the
market movement,” said Umezaki.  Theoria Capital is attracting investors as it outperformed
the average hedge fund, which gained 1.7 percent in the first
eight months of the year, according to  Eurekahedge Pte .  It uses a combination of hedge-fund strategies including
arbitrage, directional, equity market neutral and event driven
to diversify the investment risk, allowing it to exploit pricing
inefficiencies between different markets and products and trade
securities affected by mergers and other corporate actions,
Umezaki said.  Strong Yen  Still, Theoria Capital doesn’t expect share prices to
“drop rapidly” because of low valuations and the central
bank’s “continuous easy monetary policy,” he said.  The yen reached 82.77 per dollar yesterday, the strongest
since May 1995. It had previously reached a 15-year peak of
82.88 yen on Sept. 15, before the central bank intervened for
the first time since 2004 to help the nation’s exporters.  “In the short term, due to the potential for further fund
raising by many companies including banks, and the negative
impact of the yen’s appreciation, it’s a very difficult
condition for the Japanese equity market,” Umezaki said.  Japanese managers suffered the biggest losses in August,
with the Eurekahedge Japan Hedge Fund Index dropping 1.9 percent,
according to the Singapore-based industry data provider. Japan’s
stock index lost 7.5 percent that month.  Theoria Capital, which also trades listed derivatives in
the U.S. and Europe, plans to expand into new markets and trade
other assets in the next few years, Umezaki said.  The fund, which targets annual returns of 20 percent, has
attracted capital from international funds of funds, family
offices, institutional investors and high net worth individuals,
he said.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  