-- Terry McAuliffe Pursues a New Shade of Green With MyCar Project
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   L i z a   L i n
-- 2010-10-07T14:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/terry-mcauliffe-pursues-a-new-shade-of-green-with-mycar-project.html
Photographers and tourists swarmed
former President  Bill Clinton  as he admired a Day-Glo orange
electric car, barely bigger than a golf cart, parked in Times
Square. As cameras flashed, best pal  Terry McAuliffe  gave
Clinton a personal tour of his latest project, proudly
describing the tiny car’s features as if it were a new baby.  In many ways, it is.  Since 1980, McAuliffe has raised prodigious sums for
lawmakers and presidents and ran the Democratic National
Committee. He made millions in real estate, banking,
homebuilding and credit cards, sometimes investing alongside the
donors and union officials contributing to the campaigns he
financed. He chaired  Hillary Clinton ’s 2008 presidential bid,
and last year his ambition to become Virginia governor didn’t
survive the state Democratic primary.  McAuliffe’s latest reinvention began in May, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Oct. 11 issue, when he bought the
Hong Kong-based owner of MyCar, an all-electric two-seater made
in southern China. He may be the Democrats’ most famous, and
most hyperactive, political salesman. But can he sell cars?  The MyCar is just one slice of an ambitious green strategy,
which McAuliffe says will position him to do nothing less than
help save American manufacturing, create thousands of middle-
class jobs, reduce dependence on foreign oil and, by the way,
make some serious money. Not everyone is so sure.  Technically a “neighborhood electric vehicle,” the MyCar
accelerates only to 45 miles per hour, travels 70 miles before
needing a recharge, and can’t go on a highway.  A Better Place  “If I were investing my money, I think I could find a
better place for it,” says  Erich Merkle , president of the U.S.
research firm Autoconomy. The car “is certainly more of a high-
risk venture.”  Where McAuliffe sees the national interest, skeptics see
political ambition. Local officials wonder if a fighter like
McAuliffe can ever really leave the ring, or if he’s simply
preparing for the next round.  “The biggest criticism people had when he ran in the
primary was that a lot of political people didn’t even know he
lived here because he didn’t get involved locally,” says Mame
Reiley, who managed the campaign of Brian Moran, a primary
opponent.  $1 Billion Powerhouse  In the past year, McAuliffe founded GreenTech Automotive,
which he aims to build into a $1 billion powerhouse. In February
he bid to convert a shuttered paper factory in Virginia’s
southeast corner into a biomass power plant; he’s awaiting word.
He plans to invest up to $1 billion in wind power with a Chinese
company, A-Power Energy Generation Systems. He says he’s
“jacked up” on fuel cells and is scoping out new technologies
worldwide.  “What the Internet was for the 1990s, green jobs are for
the 2000s,” says McAuliffe, sitting in his office surrounded by
framed and signed photographs of inaugurations and conventions.  This all began, he says, when he spotted the MyCar in
London early this year.  “I said to the guy, ‘I’m not a carjacker, I promise you.
If I give you $100, can I try this out?’”  Brunch at J. Gilbert’s, a northern Virginia steakhouse,
with the management of EuAuto Technology, MyCar’s owner,
followed, as did meetings and legal reviews. GreenTech announced
the EuAuto acquisition for an undisclosed sum at a May 17 news
conference in Hong Kong, with U.S. Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke .  State Incentives  McAuliffe then secured from Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  a package of state incentives to build a 400,000-square-
foot facility in Tunica, Mississippi. Barbour, the former head
of the Republican National Committee, is a longtime McAuliffe
associate and former Washington lobbyist.  GreenTech plans to buy parts abroad and assemble the cars
in the U.S., creating around 5,000 jobs in economically
depressed areas. Besides Mississippi, McAuliffe is looking at
sites in Tennessee and Virginia and says he will go to the state
offering the best tax breaks and other benefits.  “You want this, you’ve got to offer incentives,” he says.
“I want to see legislation. That’s part of our negotiations.”  Mississippi, Virginia and Tennessee are right-to-work
states, making it difficult for McAuliffe’s workforce to be
unionized. Union leaders were major donors to many Democratic
campaigns McAuliffe financed.  When climate legislation died in the Senate last spring,
green entrepreneurs were denied billions of dollars in
government incentives they craved. McAuliffe says he plans to
mount a lobbying campaign to revive some of the proposals,
including federal tax breaks, requirements that electricity
producers use renewable sources, and subsidies for stations
where electric vehicles can recharge.  U.S. Regulations  He expects the MyCar to go on sale mid-2011, after it’s
modified to meet U.S. regulations and upsized for American
consumers. The first 100,000 will sell for $10,000, with federal
and state tax credits knocking the price down to around $8,500,
he says.  “No one can afford not to buy it,” says McAuliffe.  Three more hybrid cars are planned for as early as 2013: a
sports car, a mid-sized vehicle and a subcompact. He won’t
disclose his backers, saying only that they are “strategic
investors active in the green technology area.”  McAuliffe says he won’t be tapping his sizable donor
network. He has raised foreign capital through the EB-5 program,
which offers permanent green cards to foreigners who invest
$500,000 in distressed areas, producing 10 full-time American
jobs. McAuliffe says he has attracted many investors this way,
yet the total amount of money is “infinitesimal,” considering
the hundreds of millions he needs for the four cars.  Political Dues  The green strategy may be one way for McAuliffe to pay his
political dues. State political experts say McAuliffe is
following a strategy pioneered by Democratic Senator  Mark Warner , a telecom industry executive who parlayed venture-
capital investments in Virginia into a gubernatorial win in 2001
after losing a Senate race five years earlier.  “He could basically say, ‘Virginia needs a governor who
can go out there and sell the state, and I’ve done it,’” says
former McAuliffe senior strategist  Mo Elleithee . “It helps fill
in a piece that was missing last time.”  McAuliffe says it’s too early to decide his political
future. “If you’re asking me, am I going to walk away from what
I believe will be a billion-plus company, I don’t know,” he
says. “I don’t, honestly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .
 Liza Lin  in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  