-- Essar Energy May Sell Its First Foreign-Currency Bonds to Repay Rupee Debt
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-10-07T18:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/essar-energy-may-sell-its-first-foreign-currency-bonds-to-repay-rupee-debt.html
Essar Energy Plc , controlled by
billionaires  Shashi  and  Ravi Ruia , may sell its first foreign-
currency bonds next year to repay rupee-denominated loans it
used to fund power and refinery projects.  “We’ll raise the money to refinance some of the Indian
high-cost debt,” Chief Financial Officer  P. Sampath  said in an
interview in Mumbai yesterday. “There are opportunities to
raise one to two percentage points of savings compared to what
we’re paying today.”  London-listed Essar Energy will seek a credit rating and
may sell notes with seven- or eight-year maturities, Sampath
said. The securities would probably be denominated in dollars
“because the oil and gas business is in dollars,” he said,
declining to say what amount the company may seek to raise.  ICICI Bank Ltd. and Reliance Industries Ltd. are among
Indian companies preparing to tap international demand for
emerging-market bond yields while Japanese and U.S. interest
rates remain near zero. Overseas investors poured $10 billion
into India’s corporate and government debt this year, more than
the combined inflows during the previous eight years, according
to data from the Securities and Exchange Board.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own top-rated Indian
company debt instead of government notes has fallen to 64 basis
points, or 0.64 percentage point, from 87 basis points at the
end of 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tata Bonds  The yield on Tata Power Co.’s $150 million in 8.5 percent
notes due Aug. 2017 fell to 6.229 percent yesterday, the lowest
in at least a year, according to Elara Capital Plc prices.  Tata Power, based in Mumbai, is India’s biggest non-state
power company and is  rated  Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Service,
the risk assessor’s third-highest speculative grade ranking.
While Essar Energy has 39 percent of Tata Power’s generation
capacity, it also has oil and gas exploration and refining
businesses, according to its website.  Essar Energy has the equivalent of $7.1 billion in project
loans from Indian banks outstanding, which pay interest of
about 10 percent to 11.5 percent, said Sampath, whose
appointment as CFO was announced in August. The company will
borrow a further $1.1 billion in rupees over the next two
quarters, he said.  Essar Energy plans to boost the amount of power it
generates to 11,470 megawatts by 2014 and to expand its
refinery on India’s west coast amid rising demand for energy
and fuels, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  