-- Thessaloniki Port Looks to Balkan Neighbors to Boost Traffic
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2010-10-07T07:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/thessaloniki-port-authority-looks-to-balkan-neighbors-to-boost-traffic.html
Thessaloniki Port Authority SA , the
operator of Greece’s second-biggest port, is looking north to
Balkan neighbors Bulgaria, Serbia and the former Yugoslav
republic of Macedonia to boost cargo volume and revenue.  The authority started a series of presentations in Sofia,
Belgrade and Skopje to promote a 20 percent cut in tariffs,
Chairman Stylianos Aggeloudis said in an interview in Sofia
yesterday. The port plans a 240 million-euro ($335 million)
expansion of its Pier Six to add infrastructure and storage
facilities and increase annual traffic capacity to 1.2 million
containers, he said.  “We’re here to present the favorable terms and services
our port has to offer,” Aggeloudis said. “The bulk of the
goods handled by the port go to northern Greece. Of the three
northern neighbors, the biggest number of the port’s customers
are in Skopje, followed by Belgrade and Sofia.”  The three countries, with a combined population of 17
million people, are an attractive market for Greek businesses,
which are seeking new opportunities as Greece struggles to rein
in the euro region’s second-biggest budget deficit. Greece’s
government cut spending and raised taxes to secure a  European
Union -led rescue and avoid default.  Serbia and Macedonia are recovering from the violent
breakup of Yugoslavia in the 1990’s. Serbia’ economy expanded an
annual 2 percent in the second quarter, while Macedonia’s gross
domestic product grew 1.2 percent in 2009. Bulgaria’s  economy
grew  0.5 percent, the first growth in four quarters, in the
second quarter, signalling recovery from the worst recession in
a decade.  Balkan Gateway  The port, which markets itself as a maritime gateway to the
Balkans, handled 10.14 million metric tons of cargo in January
to August, a 7.9 percent annual increase. It also handled
179,228 containers and 1,301 ships in the first eight months, an
increase of nearly 6 percent and 1.3 percent, respectively, from
a year ago. Passenger traffic fell 39 percent to 79,247.  In the five months to May 31, the port handled 473,720
metric tons of cargo for Macedonia and Serbia, up from 317,000
tons in the same period last year, he said.  The port plans to offer combined cargo services that will
offer preferential rates for shipments going from the Aegean
harbor by rail to Bulgarian ports or Rousse and Vidin on the
Danube or to the Black Sea ports of Varna and Bourgas, he said.  Skopje is used as a destination for shipments also going to
nearby Kosovo, where the biggest U.S. military base in the
region, Bondsteel, is located. A long strike at the port in 2007
slashed traffic to Bulgaria from 30,000 tons then, to 7,000 tons
in January-August 2010, Aggeloudis said. Recession in the past
year also compounded the drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  