-- Estonian Inflation Accelerates to Highest Rate in 20 Months on Food, Fuel
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-10-07T07:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/estonian-inflation-accelerates-to-highest-rate-in-20-months-on-food-fuel.html
Estonian  inflation  accelerated in
September to the fastest pace in 20 months, mainly because of
rising food and heating prices.  Consumer  prices  rose 4 percent from a year earlier, the
biggest jump since January 2009, compared with 2.9 percent in
August, the Tallinn-based statistics office said today on its
website. The median estimate of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was 3.5 percent. Prices rose 0.8 percent on the month.  Inflation expectations in the Baltic nation of 1.3 million
people are rising because of increasing food and fuel costs and
concern that adopting the euro in January will boost prices. The
central bank is trying to protect Estonia’s  economic recovery 
after inflation accelerated to 10.6 percent in 2008, choking off
domestic demand and contributing to the European Union’s second-
deepest recession during the global financial crisis.  “While there are mainly external factors, such as energy
and food inflation, behind the faster price rise, it is becoming
increasingly evident that problems with competition have become
serious,” said  Maris Lauri , the chief economist at Swedbank AB
in Tallinn, in an e-mail. “Price increases are certainly not
due to too-lax monetary or budget policies. The government and
responsible authorities should significantly intensify efforts
to support competition.”  Food, Utilities  Food prices rose 1.3 percent on the month, pushing the
annual increase to 6.6 percent and accounting for two-fifths of
the total price increase, the statistics office said.
Electricity and heating costs rose an annual 10.2 percent.
Increases in dairy prices at the end of the month weren’t
reflected in September calculations, the office said.  Retail prices for milk rose an annual 41.1 percent last
month, according to data released by the  Konjunktuuriinstituut 
research institute on Sept. 29.  Estonia’s prosecutors and the country’s competition
watchdog started an inquiry last month into dairy price
increases by retailers, following a similar investigation into a
possible price cartel by bread producers, launched in August.  ‘Few Tools’  Inflation may jump to more than 6 percent and stay above 3
percent until 2012 if food prices increase as much as they did
in 2007-2008, according to central bank calculations.  Deputy central bank Governor  Marten Ross  last month urged
the government to increase domestic competition to keep
inflation in check as the country’s adoption of the euro in
January provides an excuse to boost prices.  Estonia has “few tools” to control price increases, Prime
Minister  Andrus Ansip  said last month, in response to a Sept. 20
statement by European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
that Estonia must remain “alert” on price developments and
take “forceful” action to stem inflation after joining the
euro-region economy.  “The global food price rises become a new risk factor for
Baltic inflation, given that the Baltic economies tend to absorb
price shocks to a much larger extent,” said  Violeta Klyviene ,
senior Baltic analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Vilnius, ahead of
the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  