-- EU Looks at Taxing Bank Profits, Wages to Recoup $35 Billion from Bailouts
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-10-07T10:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/eu-considers-taxing-bank-profits-and-wages-to-recoup-bailouts.html
A tax on bank profits and wages could
raise as much as 25 billion euros ($35 billion) for the 27-
nation European Union and is “worth exploring,” the  European
Commission  said.  The so-called financial-activities tax could counter
economic “distortions due to the VAT exemption” of banks and
help contribute to public budgets, the Brussels-based commission
said today. The commission is considering it as an alternative
to a proposed tax on financial transactions.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  has called for a tax on
banks’ financial transactions to repair holes in government
budgets caused when they had to prop up lenders during the
financial crisis that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. European governments approved $5 trillion
in bank bailouts and loan guarantees during the crisis,
according to EU data.  A transaction tax “appears less suitable for unilateral
introduction at EU level, since the risks of relocation are high
and would undermine the ability to generate revenue,” the
commission said. “There is greater potential for a financial-
activities tax at EU level.”  Any taxes would have to be approved by the national
governments, which resisted a transaction-tax proposal in
September.  Winding Down  The commission is also drawing up plans for a series of
bank levies to fund national agencies that would wind down
crisis-hit firms, without the need to bail out the entire
financial system.  Bank taxes should account for “new standards on capital
requirements,”  European Central Bank  President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said at a press conference in Brussels last week, while
a financial-transaction tax would “present a number of
disadvantages in terms of its implementation.”  Finance ministers of the EU member states would reject a
tax that would “destroy a machine which should finance future
growth,” Finnish Finance Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said at a
meeting of ministers in Brussels earlier this month.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  defended the
concept of transaction taxes, while saying Germany wouldn’t
impose such a tax unilaterally.  “The financial transaction tax can partially answer the
question how the burdens of financing public coffers can be
shared in a proper and fair way,” Schaeuble said. “The
technical problems aren’t insurmountable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at  bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  