-- European Union to Review Group Lawsuits for Antitrust, Consumer Complaints
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-10-07T15:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/european-union-to-review-group-lawsuits-for-antitrust-consumer-complaints.html
The European Union will consider
plans to allow group lawsuits for antitrust violations and
consumer complaints, while stopping short of endorsing U.S.-
style class-action complaints.  Combining individual lawsuits into a group or “collective
redress” claim would save legal costs and speed up the judicial
process, three EU commissioners said in a document obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The EU must avoid “the risk of abusive litigation” that
is built into U.S. law, according to the document to be
presented by Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding , Antitrust
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  and Consumer Commissioner  John Dalli  at a meeting next week. “Such abuses have occurred in the
U.S.” because there are “strong economic incentives for
parties to bring a case to court.”  Neelie Kroes , Almunia’s predecessor as competition
commissioner, championed group lawsuits as a way to compensate
victims of illegal monopolies and cartels. Such lawsuits, in
addition to fines that can reach millions of euros, might help
victims recover losses and deter antitrust violations, she
argued.  The latest EU proposals could expand on Kroes’s plans,
allowing consumers to possibly seek damages for wider “illegal
business practices.” The document will be the basis of
discussions next week on whether to start a formal consultation
to draft legislation on the issue.  Frederic Vincent, a spokesman for Dalli, said the issue
would be discussed at an Oct. 12 commission meeting.  Amelia Torres , Almunia’s spokeswoman, declined to comment.   Matthew Newman , a spokesman for Reding, didn’t immediately answer a call
seeking comment.  Consumer groups last month called for the EU to press
ahead with work on civil lawsuits that could allow customers
seek damages for antitrust violations.  The EU imposed 1.6 billion euros ($2.2 billion) in cartel
fines last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 