-- European Stocks Close Little Changed; Volvo, Kazakhmys Drop, Renault Gains
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-10-07T16:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/european-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-volvo-m-s-may-be-active.html
European stocks  closed little changed
as a record drop in U.K. house prices offset an unexpected
decrease in initial claims for U.S. jobless benefits.  Volvo AB  fell 5.3 percent and Renault SA surged 8.5 percent
as France’s second-largest carmaker sold a 14.9 percent stake in
the Swedish truckmaker. Kazakhmys Plc, Kazakhstan’s biggest
copper company, retreated 5.6 percent as an investor sold
shares. Man Group Plc, Actelion Ltd. and Demag Cranes AG soared
more than 5 percent amid takeover speculation.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slipped less than 0.1 percent to
262.31 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge rallied 6.7
percent in the third quarter as concern eased that a slowing
pace of economic growth in China and the U.S. would curb
corporate profits. The index has climbed 3.3 percent this year.  “The market has consolidated gains after performing really
well,” said  Nicola Trivelli , who helps manage about $4.2 billion
as chief investment officer of Sella Gestioni Sgr in Milan.
“Looking at the earnings season, the positive is that consensus
expectations have been revised lowed, reducing the impact of
negative surprises. However, the focus will be on the outlook
for the fourth quarter.”  Alcoa Inc., the biggest U.S. aluminum producer, will become
the first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to report
third-quarter results after the close of U.S. trading today.  U.K. House Prices  National benchmark indexes advanced in 13 of the 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX rose 0.1 percent and France’s
CAC 40 gained 0.2 percent. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  dropped 0.3
percent as  house prices  plunged the most since at least 1983 in
September. The average cost of a British home fell 3.6 percent
from August, according to Halifax, the mortgage lending division
of Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  In the U.S., Labor Department figures showed applications
for unemployment benefits fell last week to the lowest in three
months, indicating companies are slowing the pace of firings.  The European Central Bank and the Bank of England kept
their benchmark interest rates at record lows today, as forecast
by all economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Volvo declined 5.3 percent to 91.9 kronor after Renault
sold a 14.9 percent stake for 3 billion euros ($4.2 billion) to
take advantage of a surge in the truckmaker’s shares to pay down
debt. The carmaker said it sold 302.9 million Class B shares in
a private placement at 93 kronor each.  Renault Rallies  Renault rallied 8.5 percent to 39.60 euros, leading a gauge
of automakers in the Stoxx 600 to the biggest gain among 19
 industry groups .  Kazakhmys slid 5.6 percent to 1,400 pence. Orleans Trade &
Investment Corp. sold 9.35 million shares, or a 1.75 percent
stake in the mining company, according to terms of the
transaction obtained by Bloomberg News.  Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA dropped 5.4 percent to
5.11 euros. The Spanish wind turbine maker, which in July
forecast about 2.5 gigawatts of turbine sales this year, said it
so far has orders for 791 megawatts of turbines in 2011.  Halfords Plc tumbled 8.7 percent to 408 pence for the
biggest decline in the  Stoxx 600 . The U.K.’s largest retailer of
car parts and bicycles said same-store sales fell 4.1 percent in
the first half.  HeidelbergCement AG, the world’s third-largest cement
maker, tumbled 4.7 percent to 35.40 euros, leading a gauge of
construction shares lower. Lafarge SA, the biggest cement maker,
sank 4.6 percent to 41.38 euros.  ‘Bit Nervous’  “The market is a bit nervous about negative pricing in the
U.S.” following comments at an industry conference today,  Tim Cahill , an analyst at Davy Stockbrokers, said in an interview.  Petropavlovsk Plc, Russia’s third-largest gold producer,
retreated 5.8 percent to 1,071 pence after the Financial Times’s
Alphaville blog said analysts may lower their production
forecasts for the company.  Man Group, the hedge-fund manager that’s buying GLG
Partners Inc., rallied 5.1 percent to 249.8 pence on speculation
that an unidentified U.S. bank may make an offer for the firm.  “There is vague talk a U.S. bank may be interested in
bidding for them,” said  Manoj Ladwa , a London-based senior
trader at ETX Capital. “The stock has been performing very well
over the last few days and it is backed up by volumes.”  Man Group spokesman  George Trefgarne  declined to comment.  Actelion, Demag  Actelion surged 5 percent to 44.7 Swiss francs amid
speculation Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. was buying shares and may
make a takeover offer. The Financial Times, citing “market
rumors,” reported today that Bristol-Myers was buying Actelion
shares and would raise its stake above the 3 percent level that
would require the New York-based company to publicly announce
its holdings.  Roland Haefeli , a spokesman for Actelion and  Tracy Furey , a
Bristol-Myers spokeswoman in New York, declined to comment.  Demag Cranes  soared 6.2 percent to 31.49 euros as the
Financial Times Deutschland reported that Konecranes Oyj of
Finland is considering a takeover bid for the German company,
without saying where it got the information. Konecranes has
hired advisers to assist with the proposal, and has organized
financing, the newspaper said. Spokesmen for both companies
declined to comment, the newspaper added.  ‘Plenty of Cash’  “There is no doubt that M&A is picking up,”  Max King , a
London-based investment strategist at Investec Asset Management,
which oversees about $55 billion, said on Bloomberg Radio.
“Companies have strong balance sheets, they’ve got plenty of
cash, strong cash flow, and they are looking to do something
with the money. The obvious thing to do with the money is to
make acquisitions, especially when cash is generating a zero
interest rate at the bank.”  Marks & Spencer Group Plc , the U.K.’s largest clothing
retailer, rallied 4.9 percent to 410 pence after reporting
second-quarter sales growth that beat analysts’ estimates as the
company won market share in clothing.  Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-largest
reinsurer, rose 3.7 percent to 45.11 francs on speculation that
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services may review the company’s
credit rating.  “One explanation of the share increase could be speculation
that S&P is planning to review Swiss Re’s rating,” said  Roland Pfaender , an analyst with Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 