-- Eurostar to Buy Siemens Trains in Bid to Counter Deutsche Bahn
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2010-10-07T14:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/eurostar-to-buy-siemens-trains-in-bid-to-counter-deutsche-bahn.html
Eurostar Group Ltd., the operator
of high-speed trains through the Channel Tunnel, will spend 700
million pounds ($1.1 billion) to buy 10 new expresses and add
routes in a bid to fend off competition from  Deutsche Bahn AG .  Eurostar, which currently runs trains from London to Paris
and Brussels, will begin an overhaul of its fleet next year and
purchase the 10 new 900-seat units from  Siemens AG  that can
reach speeds of 320 kilometers an hour (198 mph), it said today.  The revamp was announced 12 days before Deutsche Bahn runs
a test train to London as a prelude to beginning services in
2013. Eurostar said its new stock will be delivered from 2014,
allowing it to offer destinations including Amsterdam, Cologne
and Frankfurt, cities Deutsche Bahn has also said it may serve.  “We’re looking at which routes to do first, at the big
markets where we can make money,” Chief Executive Officer
 Nicolas Petrovic  said in an interview. “If Deutsche Bahn does a
fantastic job we might reconsider our options. But we’re used to
competition -- we’ve been competing with airlines for 16 years.”  The Siemens trains will have 20 percent more capacity than
existing Eurostar units and journey times between London and
Paris will be cut to “just over two hours,” the company said.  Eurostar is bracing for competition on routes through the
Channel Tunnel to London’s St. Pancras station after the
European Union introduced rules requiring track owners to grant
access to new operators for cross-border, high-speed trains.  Deutsche Bahn Test  Deutsche Bahn said Sept. 22 that it aims to begin a service
linking the U.K. capital with cities in western Germany. To do
so it must win authorization from Britain and France to operate
non-standard trains via the 30-mile subsea link, and a test run
to demonstrate the safety case will be performed on Oct. 19.  Eurostar’s main aim is to win a bigger slice of the market
for travel between southeast England and the near continent, in
which 10 million people currently opt to fly, Petrovic said. It
might also run trains to the south of France and Switzerland,
with a trip to Geneva taking around five hours, he said.  The e320 trains ordered from Siemens will be a variant of
the German manufacturer’s Velaro D and similar to the ICE or
InterCityExpress mark 4 model that Deutsche Bahn aims to operate
through the tunnel. The Velaro is also able to operate across
the whole of Europe’s high-speed network, regardless of
signaling differences and other anomalies.  Safety Issue  Unlike the DB trains, the e320s will be long enough at 400
meters to meet rules on evacuation procedures in the tunnel,
though the French government said today that with a motor under
each carriage, they aren’t compliant with other regulations. So-
called multiple units may present an increased fire risk, while
passenger trains using the route must also be able to split in
two and exit in opposite directions.  U.K. Transport Secretary  Stephen Hammond , speaking at a
Eurostar press conference in London, said he expected French
safety concerns to be resolved.  “I don’t believe that there are any substantive concerns
over safety issues,” Hammond said. “But I do understand that
there are proper processes that have to be gone through and it’s
quite right that the safety commission should want to be fully
satisfied and have all the ‘i’s dotted and ‘t’s crossed.”  Alstom Blow  The decision to buy trains from Siemens is a blow for
 Alstom SA  of Paris, which built the existing Eurostar fleet
based on its TGV or Train a Grande Vitesse. Petrovic said the
order followed an open tender and that he faced no government
lobbying, even though his company is controlled by France’s
state-owned Societe Nationale des Chemins de fer Français.  Alstom also said today in a statement that the Siemens
trains don’t conform with security rules for the tunnel, while
declining to comment on commercial discussions around the deal.  The current Eurostar fleet, which is about midway through
its 30-year lifespan, will be upgraded by Italian design house
 Pininfarina SpA , which has been commissioned to provide an
interior “like the best cars, planes and hotels, the CEO said.  The outlook for travel on Eurostar’s routes is ‘‘generally
positive,’’ Petrovic said, with demand in the business market
picking up since May. There’s still some concern about the
likely impact of government austerity measures, he said.  Britain is likely to retain its 40 percent stake in
Eurostar, according to Hammond. ‘‘Our view is that this is a
‘hold’,’’ he said. ‘‘But of course, like any prudent investor, we
will look at our holdings in years to come.’’  The former Labour government had indicated that the British
stake, controlled by Eurostar UK Ltd., might be sold. Following
the reorganization of Eurostar into a single company, SNCF has a
55 percent holding and Belgian railway SNCB owns 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Jasper  in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  