-- Evercore, Hightower Split on MTA Bonds as Authority Votes on Raising Fares
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/evercore-hightower-split-on-mta-bonds-as-authority-votes-on-raising-fares.html
As New York’s Metropolitan
Transportation Authority votes today on raising fares, the
agency’s deficits are leading  Evercore Wealth Management LLC  to
balk at buying its debt. HighTower Advisors LLC says authority
bonds are a safe bet.  The MTA, whose 8.5 million weekday riders make it the
busiest U.S. mass-transit system, will consider raising the cost
of monthly unlimited passes to $104 from $89 along with a  menu 
of increases aimed at raising revenue by 7.5 percent next year.
Even with higher fares and streamlined operations, the MTA faces
combined budget gaps of $1.3 billion during the next four years,
according to agency budget documents.  “We’ve been very hesitant about purchasing fare-box
revenue bonds from the MTA,” said  Howard Cure , director of
municipal research at  Evercore Wealth Management LLC , which
holds $1 billion in municipal bonds. Aaron Donovan, an MTA
spokesman, declined to comment.  The MTA’s  $13.1 billion budget  has suffered because a
payroll tax in New York City and seven other counties that was
adopted last year to help the authority hasn’t met projections.
The state also cut more than $140 million in MTA aid to help
close its own $9.2 billion budget gap, leaving the agency to
close a $900 million deficit this fiscal year, which ends Dec.
31.  Wrestling the Deficit  “There’s going to be at some point a hesitancy from the
state to keep raising any appropriations because they have to
grapple with their own deficits,” Cure said.  Richard Saperstein , who helps oversee $4 billion of
municipal bonds for the Treasury Partners Practice at HighTower
in Chicago, said the MTA is doing what it must. The agency
provides an essential service to the most populous U.S. city,
giving bondholders plenty of security, he said.  “We are confident in their ability to raise fares and
service their outstanding debt,” said Saperstein, whose firm
owns MTA bonds and continues to buy them. “People complain, but
they have very few alternatives.”  The MTA has about $14.3 billion of transportation revenue
bonds, or so-called fare-box bonds, outstanding. The debt, which
is  rated  A2 by Moody’s Investors Service, is backed by the
agency’s operating revenue and government aid. The MTA also has
another $16.5 billion of debt to be paid from dedicated state
taxes, other state appropriations, and bridge and tunnel tolls.  ‘Too Rich’  The extra yield that investors demand to hold the MTA’s
transportation revenue bonds has increased. Investors still
should have more compensation for the risk of buying the
agency’s bonds, said  Jim Holihan , a portfolio manager at
Evercore in New York.  “They’re trading too rich, given the downgrade
potential,” said Holihan.  Investors are receiving enough compensation for the risk of
holding the MTA’s debt, said Saperstein, the HighTower
executive.  The extra yield that investors demanded to hold an MTA
transportation revenue bond maturing in 20 years compared with a
top-rated municipal bond of the same maturity increased from
0.48 percentage point on Jan. 21 to 0.65 percentage point on
Oct. 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Going Taxable  To lower its borrowing costs, the MTA has taken advantage
of the Build America Bond program, which allows states and local
governments to issue taxable bonds and receive a federal
reimbursement for 35 percent of interest costs.  This year, the MTA has issued about $2 billion of Build
America Bonds, compared with $152 million of traditional tax-
exempt debt.  An MTA Build America Bond with a November 2039 maturity
that was issued in February with a yield of 210 basis points
more than comparable U.S. Treasuries traded Oct. 4 at a 228
basis-point premium to the benchmark rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Debt service will account for $2.1 billion of the MTA’s
budget, according to its preliminary 2011 spending plan, and is
expected to increase 24 percent to $2.6 billion in 2014. The
agency plans on selling $8.1 billion in bonds for capital
projects in the next four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  