-- Ex-Morgan Stanley Manager Sinha to Shut Hedge Fund, Citing `Tough' Market
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-10-08T03:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/ex-morgan-stanley-manager-sinha-to-shut-hedge-fund-citing-tough-market.html
Amoeba Capital Partners Pte, run by
the former head of Asian investments at Morgan Stanley’s asset-
management unit, is returning money to investors in its stock
hedge fund, citing “tough” industry conditions.  The Singapore-based firm plans to give clients their money
by Dec. 31, said Managing Partner  Ashutosh Sinha , 43, in an
interview yesterday. The Amoeba Capital Asia Fund, which bets on
rising and falling stocks in Asia outside Japan, returned 67
percent from its inception on July 10, 2006, through Aug. 31,
Sinha said, compared with a 22 percent gain in the  MSCI Asia
Pacific ex-Japan Index  over the same period.  “I’m just taking a sabbatical,” said Sinha, who worked at
Morgan Stanley Investment Management for 11 years before
founding  Amoeba Capital  in 2006. “The hedge fund industry has
been tough in the last few years.”  The fund has shrunk to $135 million following client
withdrawals during the global financial crisis, from a peak of
$750 million, he said. Smaller managers are struggling to raise
assets as investors are allocating money to larger funds,
according to  Eurekahedge Pte .  “The money that is coming in is generally coming into the
Asian end of the big global firms, and a very small number of
boutiques that have been generally better at building some
distribution in the U.S.,” said  Peter Douglas , the principal of
Singapore-based GFIA Pte, which advises investors seeking to
allocate money to hedge funds and runs a wealth-management
business. “For a lot of the generally boutique guys, I don’t
see money coming back that quickly.”  ‘Volatile Years’  The largest 20 percent of funds oversee almost 80 percent
of Asian hedge-fund assets, up from about 73 percent in 2005,
the Singapore-based industry data provider said in a September
report.  “It’s not easy for smaller firms,” Sinha said. “All the
money is going into the large firms.”  Amoeba Capital’s fund gained 5.1 percent through August
this year, said Sinha, who has been a fund manager for 17 years.
It outperformed the average hedge fund, which gained 1.7 percent
in the first eight months of the year, according to Eurekahedge.  “We had a good performance because we’ve been through a
lot of volatile years,” said Sinha, who is also the firm’s
chief investment officer. “Markets have been quite volatile.”  Investors include endowments, funds of funds and family
offices, said Sinha.  The Team  Sinha, who has lived in Singapore since 1998, holds an
electrical engineering degree from the Indian Institute of
Technology in the northern Indian city of Kanpur, and an MBA
from the Indian Institute of Management in Kolkata, according to
his biography.  Sinha co-founded Amoeba Capital with his brother,  Manish Sinha , who previously worked as an investment analyst at
Litespeed Management LLC and Oaktree Capital Management LLC in
New York, according to his biography.  The team also includes two other analysts and a head of
trading, according to its website. The firm has an operation and
support team, its website shows.  “They should find reasonable opportunities given their
experience,” Sinha said. “A lot of them are already being
sought after so it should not be a problem.”  Sinha joins hedge-fund icon  Stanley Druckenmiller , who said
in August he will shut down Duquesne Capital Management LLC and
retire from hedge-fund management after 30 years.  Druckenmiller, 57, said he was tired of the stress of
managing money for others and frustrated by his failure in the
past three years to match returns that had averaged 30 percent
annually since 1986.  “A lot of people are trying to take a break in this very
tough market environment,” Sinha said. “Maybe I’ll be back at
some point after a break and see what we can do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  