-- Ex-New York Comptroller Hevesi Pleads Guilty to Corruption in Fund Probe
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-10-08T00:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/ex-new-york-comptroller-hevesi-to-plead-guilty-of-corruption-in-fund-probe.html
Former New York State Comptroller
 Alan Hevesi  pleaded guilty to participating in a pay-to-play
scandal at the public pension fund he once ran, the highest-
ranking official convicted in a three-year investigation by
state Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo .  Hevesi, 69, who was elected to the post in 2002 and
resigned in 2006, admitted today to a second-degree charge of
receiving reward for official misconduct before Justice  Lewis Bart Stone  in state Supreme Court in Manhattan. Hevesi, a
Democrat, agreed to cooperate in Cuomo’s probe and may avoid
prison time.  Hevesi said in court that he gave preferential treatment to
Markstone Capital Partners, approving $250 million in pension
fund investments in exchange for almost $1 million in gifts,
including $75,000 in travel expenses, $380,000 in sham
consulting fees for a lobbyist, and more than $500,000 in
campaign contributions.  “I deeply regret my conduct, and I sincerely and deeply
apologize to the people of the state of New York, the court and
my family,” Hevesi said.  The judge said he may be sentenced to 1 1/3 years to 4
years in prison or as little as no time at all. Sentencing is
set for Dec. 16. Stone freed Hevesi on his own recognizance.  Cuomo, the Democratic candidate for governor, started in
2007 to investigate corruption at New York’s Common Retirement
Fund, the third-largest in the U.S., recently valued at $124.8
billion. At least six people have pleaded guilty to criminal
charges, 15 investment firms have settled and more than $130
million has been paid to the fund and state from the probe.  Morris Awaits Trial  Henry “Hank” Morris, Hevesi’s former top political
consultant, is awaiting trial on charges he corrupted the
investment process to benefit money managers who made campaign
contributions and politically connected placement agents who
received lucrative fees, including himself.  Hevesi said today he knew Morris was “a paid placement
agent in connection with Common Retirement Fund investments”
and that Morris steered fund investments “to friends and
political associates.”  Steven Rattner , co-founder of Quadrangle Group LLC, also
has been the subject of Cuomo’s investigation for his alleged
role in corruption at the fund. Cuomo has alleged Rattner
arranged for Quadrangle to retain Morris as a placement agent.  Finder’s Fees  Rattner, who has denied any wrongdoing, sought to use
Morris to obtain an increase in the state fund’s investment with
Quadrangle, Cuomo has said. Rattner paid $1.1 million in
finder’s fees to Morris.  “It’s an ongoing matter,” Cuomo spokesman  Richard Bamberger  said today when asked about Rattner.  Hevesi was sole trustee of the fund from 2003 to 2006, the
official responsible for managing and investing its money. He
resigned as comptroller after pleading guilty to a felony in
December 2006 for using state employees to chauffeur around his
disabled wife, ending his 35-year career in politics.  The judge said today that Hevesi would be considered a
first-time felony offender when he sentences him for his latest
conviction because “he did not commit the acts which are part
of this crime subsequent to the time he was convicted of a
felony.”  Pay to Play  Cuomo has elicited admissions and cooperation from at least
half a dozen other men connected to the corruption.  Elliott B. Broidy , founder of Markstone Capital Partners,
pleaded guilty in December, saying he worked with officials at
the comptroller’s office “to confer benefits upon public
servants for having violated their duties.”  Broidy said in that in seeking investments from the pension
fund, he made almost $1 million in payments for the benefit of
high-ranking officials, including luxury travel. On five
occasions from 2003 to 2006, he said, he traveled to Israel and
Italy with “high-ranking officials” of the comptroller’s
office.  “Pursuant to our agreement, Broidy paid at least $75,000
in travel expenses incurred by myself, other Office of the New
York State Comptroller officials, and my adult children, in
connection with these trips,” Hevesi said in court today.  Hevesi also said Morris arranged for Broidy to enter into a
sham consulting agreement with a lobbyist friend of Morris, who
was a political supporter of his. He said Broidy paid or caused
to be paid in excess of $380,000 to the lobbyist over more than
two years.  Campaign Contributions  Broidy also arranged more than $500,000 in campaign
contributions as directed by Hevesi or his campaign staff,
Hevesi said.  David Loglisci , chief investment officer of the state fund
under Hevesi, pleaded guilty in March to a violation of the
state’s general business law for allowing Morris the power to
choose which money managers received alternative investments
from the pension fund.  Loglisci, who also agreed to cooperate, said in court then
that he was instructed by a senior official to get approval from
Morris before recommending or declining investment suggestions.
He also said he ceded authority over alternative investments at
the direction of senior officials.  “The political motivations for investment selection were
chronic and institutionalized throughout the office, creating a
culture of corruption at the highest levels,” Loglisci said in
court.  Tainted by Kickbacks  In all, about $5 billion of the New York state pension
fund’s $9.5 billion in alternative investments made in the 2003-
2007 period were tainted by kickbacks, according to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which is also investigating.  Loglisci had been charged in March 2009 along with Morris
in a 123-count  indictment . Morris, who has pleaded not guilty,
faces trial on enterprise corruption and more than 70 other
charges.  Cuomo has alleged that Morris’s corrupt “group”
participated in 19 separate investments generating $35 million
in placement fees, with Morris himself or entities he owned
taking $19 million.  Morris said in a court filing in March that he didn’t
commit any crimes related to “access and influence” at the
state’s pension fund.  Ex-New York Liberal Party Chairman  Raymond B. Harding  also
pleaded guilty in the pension scandal. Harding admitted taking
$800,000 in placement fees in exchange for political favors.  Placement Work  Harding said Morris steered the placement work to him “so
that I could receive hundreds of thousands in fees to reward me
for my political support of Alan Hevesi,” according to a
transcript of his October 2009 guilty-plea hearing in New York
state court in Manhattan.  Harding said at the hearing that, under his leadership, the
 Liberal Party  endorsed Hevesi in campaigns including his
successful race for comptroller in 2002.  Harding said he learned in 2004 that Hevesi was trying to
find private sector-employment for an unidentified state
assemblyman to create a vacancy in the Legislature for his son,
 Andrew Hevesi .  Harding said he helped the assemblyman get a job at a
health insurance company. In May 2005,  Andrew Hevesi  was elected
to the vacant seat.  “Alan Hevesi later thanked me for my assistance,” Harding
said.  Calls in the last week to Andrew Hevesi’s assembly office
haven’t been returned.  Aldus Equity  Saul Meyer , founder of Dallas-based pension consultant
 Aldus Equity , pleaded guilty last October to fraud charges,
saying he paid $300,000 to Morris to secure money from the
pension fund.  Meyer also obtained $200 million more than the original
commitment to the Aldus/NY Emerging Fund at the same time he
helped a son of Hevesi place $25 million at a public pension
fund in New Mexico, according to the complaint against Meyer.
Aldus was an adviser to the New Mexico pension fund and
recommended that the deal go through. Cuomo has identified the
son as  Daniel Hevesi .  The son earned a $250,000 fee for New Mexico’s investment
with a fund known as Catterton Partners VI, according to the
complaint. He thanked Meyer for “NM,” records obtained by
Cuomo’s office show.  Calls to New York attorney Laura Brevetti, who has
represented Daniel Hevesi, weren’t returned.  Cooperating With Cuomo  Earlier,  Barrett Wissman , a Dallas fund manager accused of
paying and receiving kickbacks, and  Julio Ramirez Jr. , a Los
Angeles placement agent who solicited and shared in illicit
payments, pleaded guilty in connection with the probe. Wissman
and Ramirez also are cooperating with Cuomo.  Before his 2002 election as state comptroller, Hevesi
served for eight years as New York City’s comptroller. He spent
22 years in the state Assembly, representing a district in the
borough of Queens while he was a professor of political science
at Queens College. He holds a doctorate in public law and
government from Columbia University.  Hevesi was re-elected to a second term as state comptroller
in November 2006 in the face of a finding by the state ethics
commission that he had violated the law.  The next month, he pleaded guilty to defrauding the
government and agreed to resign from office. He admitted using
state employees as drivers and personal aides for his disabled
wife. Hevesi’s 2006 plea deal spared him prison time.  Current Comptroller  Current state Comptroller  Thomas P. DiNapoli , a Democrat
chosen by the Assembly to succeed Hevesi, has banned the use of
placement agents or lobbyists in investments with the fund, and
banned contributions from those who do business with the fund.  “My predecessor Alan Hevesi is the latest in a line of
corruption that just keeps getting longer,” he said today in an
e-mailed statement. “It’s time to take away the pension of
anyone found guilty of committing a felony in the course of his
or her official duties.”  Bamberger said today in a statement that DiNapoli isn’t
involved in any investigation by the attorney general’s office.
He said the office reviewed an investment known as Intermedia,
which was approved under Hevesi and increased under DiNapoli,
and “determined that no action is warranted.”  Cuomo  supports  legislation  to establish a board of trustees
to oversee the state pension fund in place of the current sole
trustee.  Nationally, state and federal prosecutors are investigating
whether money managers made campaign contributions and illegally
paid politically connected placement agents for access to the $2
trillion in U.S. public retirement funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 