-- Ex-Prosecutor Says Rajaratnam Wiretap Followed Stall in Probe
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/ex-rajaratnam-prosecutor-says-u-s-probe-stalled-before-wiretap-started.html
The criminal insider-trading probe of
Galleon Group co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam  had stalled before a
federal judge authorized wiretaps in March 2008, a former
federal prosecutor who worked on the case said in court.  “By the time that we applied for that wiretap in March
2008, the investigation had been going on for more than a year
and had certainly produced a lot of phone records,” said  Lauren Goldberg , the former assistant U.S. Attorney in Manhattan who
oversaw the preparation of the wiretap application. “But it’s
fair to say that we’d hit a bit of a wall and we weren’t going
to be making any progress unless we got up on a wire.”  She testified that prosecutors met at least three times
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which had a
parallel investigation of Rajaratnam, to discuss the probe.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell  in New York concluded a
four-day hearing yesterday over defense claims that the
government misled a different judge into authorizing the
wiretaps in March 2008.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers are seeking to show that U.S. agents
illegally wiretapped his communications and that the recordings
can’t be used in his criminal insider-trading trial. Holwell
said he will rule on the legality of the wiretaps, which are the
centerpiece of the biggest insider-trading prosecution in
history, after both sides submit additional briefs to the court.  Secret Intercepts  The prosecution is the first in which the government has
used secret intercepts of telephone calls to investigate and
prosecute insider trading.  Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in an alleged
insider-trading scheme that prosecutors claim netted millions of
dollars in illegal profits. He denies wrongdoing.  In the hearing yesterday, Goldberg was asked by Assistant
U.S. Attorney Avi Weitzman about the purpose of the government’s
wiretaps.  “The principal objective here was to identify the other
individual investors in the insider-trading activity and to
obtain incriminating evidence of that activity,” she said.  Rajaratnam claims that prosecutors also misled the judge
about the background of  Roomy Khan , an ex-Intel Corp. executive
whose disclosures prompted the investigation. Had prosecutors
been more forthcoming about Khan’s criminal record and other
parts of her history, the wiretaps wouldn’t have been approved,
Rajaratnam’s lawyer,  John Dowd , has argued.  Credible Witness  Goldberg testified that Khan’s prior 1998 insider-trading
conviction for passing non-public information to Rajaratnam
would make her a more credible witness.  “I think it would have enhanced her credibility because
she did plead guilty to this in a prior investigation involving
Mr. Rajaratnam,” Goldberg said.  Asked by Weitzman if she was attempting to hide Khan’s
prior conviction, Goldberg said, “Absolutely not.”  “We thought she was a good candidate for cooperation,”
Goldberg said.  The former prosecutor said Khan had “convincing enough
evidence” that it was worth taking the risk of using her.  “She had cooperated previously which suggested to us,
first, that she was likely to cooperate again,” Goldberg said.
“And secondly, having a prior conviction, she would be likely
not to want to go to prison. Thirdly, we had good incriminating
evidence against her.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 