-- Texas Rangers Beat Rays 6-0 to Close on AL Division Series Baseball Title
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-07T22:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/texas-rangers-beat-rays-6-0-to-close-on-al-division-series-baseball-title.html
Michael Young  and  Ian Kinsler  hit
home runs as the Texas Rangers beat the Tampa Bay Rays 6-0 for a
2-0 lead in their American League playoff series.  C.J. Wilson  and two relievers combined for a two-hit
shutout for Texas, which can sweep the best-of-five AL Division
Series with a Game 3 victory at home on Oct. 9.  The Rangers are the only current Major League Baseball
franchise that hasn’t won a postseason series.  The Rays, who led the AL with 96 wins during the regular
season, scored one run in losing the first two games of the
series at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida. They now
need to win three straight to extend their season.  The New York Yankees look to take a 2-0 lead today in their
AL playoff series against the Minnesota Twins after a 6-4 win in
Game 1 yesterday in Minneapolis. The San Francisco Giants host
the Atlanta Braves tonight in the opening game of their National
League Division Series.  Wilson allowed two hits over 6 1/3 shutout innings for
Texas, which won the series opener 5-1 behind the pitching of
 Cliff Lee .  The Rangers took a 1-0 lead in the third inning when a
throwing error by Rays pitcher  James Shields  on a pickoff
attempt allowed  Matt Treanor  to score.  Kinsler hit a solo homer in the fourth inning and the AL
West-champion Rangers added four runs in the fifth.  Rays reliever  Chad Qualls  replaced Shields and gave up a
three-run homer to Young, the first batter he faced. Young’s
homer to straightaway center field came one pitch after umpires
ruled he checked his swing on a two-strike pitch.  Rays manager  Joe Maddon  was ejected for disputing the call
after Young’s homer gave the Rangers a 5-0 lead. Texas followed
with three more singles off Qualls to score another run.  The Rangers have won twice as many games this postseason as
their previous 49 years, when they went 1-9 in the playoffs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  