-- Mexico's 100-Year Bond Sale Signals `Bubble' Building in Market, RBC Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-10-07T19:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/mexico-100-year-bond-sale-raise-concern-of-market-bubble-rbc-says.html
Mexico’s $1 billion sale of bonds due
in 100 years raises concern the credit market is a approaching a
“bubble” that’s blinding investors from making wise choices,
RBC Capital Markets said in a report today.  “The market overlooks fundamentals at its peril,” RBC
analysts  Roger Appleyard  and  Simon Ballard  wrote in a note
titled “I’m Forever Blowing Bubbles.” “Enjoy the party while
it lasts, but caveat emptor; the music will surely stop at some
stage and when the party ends, the hangovers could be extreme.”  Mexico took advantage of global investor demand for higher-
yielding, emerging-market debt amid record-low interest rates in
Europe and the U.S. to sell the longest-maturity debt ever
issued by a Latin American country. The government has raised
$5.1 billion this year by selling debt in euros and dollars.
Mexico plans to sell 150 billion yen ($1.82 billion) of 10-year
Samurai debt as soon as Oct. 20, according to a person familiar
with the offering.  “We are left feeling that this sort of trade is highly
reminiscent of the height of the bull market era,” the analysts
wrote. “It adds to our concern that the credit market is now
pushing itself back into bubble territory, with memories still
all too fresh as to how such a buoyant mood was brought to its
knees last time.”  Market Obstacles  Investors may be overlooking “myriad obstacles” in the
credit markets including “the continued denouement of the
sovereign debt credit and possible restructuring in both Greek
and Irish bond markets,” the London-based analysts wrote.  The prospect of higher interest rates next year will “risk
making longer duration, lower quality investments today look far
less attractive,” said the analysts, who added that they’re not
changing their overall view on corporate credit markets.  The sale may pave the wave for other governments to sell
similar-maturity debt, said  Guillermo Osses , who helps oversee
$50 billion in emerging-market assets at Pacific Investment
Management Co.  “It wouldn’t be surprising, given how well this bond has
performed in the market,” Osses, who’s based in Newport Beach,
California, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Brazil,
for example, could fit very well that type of description.”  A Brazil finance ministry spokeswoman didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment. The person declined to be named
in accordance with official policy.  Low Yield  Mexico begun studying issuing 100-year bonds about a year
ago and made a decision after Rabobank Nederland NV and Norfolk
Southern Corp. sold similar maturity debt in the last two
months, said  Gerardo Rodriguez , head of the finance ministry’s
public debt unit, in an interview yesterday.  The government wanted to take advantage of record low
yields to fund operations, he said. The yield on Mexico’s 5.125
percent dollar debt due in January 2020 fell to a record low of
3.607 last week.  The yield on the 100-year bonds rose two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 5.794 percent at 10:05 a.m. New York
time, according to BNP Paribas e-trading. Mexican bonds yield
156 basis points more than U.S. treasuries, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  