-- Exports to Asia Wean Europe Off U.S. Consumers: Chart of the Day
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   G i o v a n n i   S a l z a n o
-- 2010-10-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/exports-to-asia-wean-euro-area-economy-off-u-s-consumers-chart-of-day.html
Europe’s exports to China and
economies elsewhere in Asia are reducing the region’s reliance
on U.S. consumers to drive growth.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that euro-region exports to
China more than doubled between 2005 and 2010 to an estimated
96.5 billion euros ($134.5 billion), according to European
Central Bank data. Sales of European goods to the U.S. as a
share of total exports fell 3.5 percentage points in the same
period while climbing 3.7 percentage points to Asia. Exports
account for a fifth of the economy of the 16-nation single-
currency region.  “Euro-area export growth has been increasingly driven by
emerging markets, especially Asia,” said  Nick Kounis , head of
macroeconomic research at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “The
world economy has become multipolar over the last few years
because of the emergence of China and the other big emerging
markets, and the euro-region export sector has been very well
placed to profit.”  Wall Street economists predict the global economy will
withstand a U.S. slowdown as international reliance on American
trade diminishes. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecasts worldwide
growth will slow 0.2 percentage point to 4.6 percent in 2011,
even as gross domestic product in the U.S. falls to 1.8 percent
from 2.6 percent. Europe’s economy grew at its fastest pace in
four years in the second quarter as exports surged 4.4 percent.  European companies benefitting from the shift include
Italy’s Piaggio & C. SpA and Germany’s Volkswagen AG. The
scooter maker began selling its three-wheeled Mp3 in China in
August, while the carmaker’s sales in China rose 41 percent to
1.29 million vehicles in the first eight months of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
 Giovanni Salzano  in Rome at 
 gsalzano@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  