-- HSBC Agrees With U.S. to Boost Anti-Money Laundering
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-10-07T19:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/fed-issues-consent-cease-and-desist-order-to-hsbc-north-america.html
A U.S. unit of  HSBC Holdings Plc 
agreed today to strengthen a compliance program that federal
bank regulators said was ineffective and created “significant
potential” for money laundering and terrorist financing.  HSBC Bank USA received a cease-and-desist order from the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The OCC said the bank
has “critical deficiencies” in reporting suspicious
activities, monitoring bulk cash purchases and international
funds transfers, and examining the background of customers.  “The bank’s compliance program and its implementation are
ineffective, and accompanied by aggravating factors, such as
highly suspicious activity creating a significant potential for
unreported money laundering or terrorist financing,” according
to the OCC’s findings.  The Federal Reserve also imposed a cease-and-desist order
on HSBC North America Holdings Inc., which oversees units
including HSBC Bank USA. Both companies agreed to the orders and
pledged to make reforms to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act, a
U.S. law that combats money laundering.  HSBC Bank USA agreed to adopt a new compliance program,
hire more workers to carry it out, train employees, and improve
the reporting of suspicious activities to U.S. authorities. HSBC
Bank USA disclosed in an Aug. 2  regulatory filing  that U.S.
prosecutors had issued grand jury subpoenas as they probed its
Global Banknotes business and foreign correspondent banking
business.  ‘Prompt Resolution’  “We’re working with regulators to ensure a prompt
resolution of these matters and sustained compliance with the
spirit and letter of U.S. laws and regulations,” Robert
Sherman, a spokesman for London-based HSBC, said in a phone
interview. HSBC is Europe’s  largest bank  by market value.  HSBC Bank USA is exiting the Global Banknotes business for
non-domestic customers, according to the bank and OCC. The OCC
didn’t give specific instances of wrongdoing in its 21-page
report on the McLean, Virginia-based unit.  From mid-2006 through mid-2009, the bank didn’t monitor
bulk cash transfers, and failed to conduct enough due diligence
on who moved money through bulk cash or wire transfers, the OCC
found. During its 2009-10 examination, the OCC cited HSBC for a
backlog of alerts of possible suspicious activities. As a
result, the bank filed a “substantial number” of late
Suspicious Activities Reports with law enforcement authorities.  The bank also failed to appropriately designate customers
as “high risk,” the OCC found, “even where a customer’s
association with politically-exposed persons (PEPs) could harm
the bank’s reputation.”  ‘Serious Issue’  “When regulators make an enforcement action public, it
indicates a serious issue,”  Kevin Mukri , spokesman for the
Washington-based OCC, said in an interview.  On March 17,  Wells Fargo & Co. ’s Wachovia Bank agreed to
pay $160 million to resolve a criminal investigation into drug
cartels’ use of the bank to launder money through Mexican
exchange houses.  The government agreed to defer prosecution on a criminal
charge that Wachovia, once the fourth-largest U.S. bank, didn’t
set up an effective anti-money laundering program from 2003 to
2008. Wachovia admitted failing to monitor $420 billion in
transactions through exchange houses.  Wachovia admitted to “serious and systemic” violations of
the Bank Secrecy Act that let drug cartels launder at least $110
million through exchange houses. Drug dealers used Wachovia
accounts to buy airplanes, and U.S. authorities seized “at
least four” of those aircraft with more than 20,000 kilograms
(22 tons) of cocaine, Wachovia said in U.S. District Court in
Miami.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 