-- Feinberg Says BP Claims Process Works Well With $1 Billion Paid
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   L i z z i e   O ’ L e a r y
-- 2010-10-07T19:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/feinberg-says-bp-claims-process-works-well-with-1-billion-paid.html
Kenneth Feinberg said the Gulf Coast
Claims Facility drawing on BP Plc’s $20 billion oil fund is
attracting as many as 8,000 applications a day and has paid out
more than $1 billion.  The numbers show growing confidence in the facility after
criticism by the U.S. Justice Department and residents and
public officials along the Gulf Coast that checks weren’t going
out quickly enough, Feinberg, the fund administrator, said
today.  “People are recognizing that this program is working,”
Feinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “They
want to participate. They want to take advantage of the
generosity of this program.”  The Gulf Coast Claims Facility had paid $349 million
through Sept. 23, its first month of operation.  Thomas Perrelli ,
the associate U.S. attorney general who led negotiations with BP
to set up the fund, said on Sept. 17 that the pace of payments
was unacceptable.  The facility had paid $1.08 billion in claims as of Oct. 6,
according to statistics posted on its website. The money
includes $34.5 million for lost real estate sales and
commissions being distributed by state Realtor trade groups.  Some claims remain under review because of “woefully
inadequate” documentation and some are likely cases of fraud,
Feinberg said today. Of the almost 118,000 claims the facility
has received, more than 43,500 remain to be paid.  “Frankly, we’re getting it out as fast as we can,”
Feinberg said.  To speed payments, he clustered the handling of claims by
industry. He has also widened the potential pool of victims who
can seek compensation.  Reversal on Proximity  Initially, Feinberg had sought to draw a geographic line,
using proximity to the spill as a standard. The goal was to help
“those most in need” get compensation quickly and to limit
questionable claims, according to Feinberg. He changed his mind
on Oct. 4, deciding against a geographic test.  The reversal was welcomed in Florida, where individuals and
companies along both coasts have said business and tourism
plummeted on the misperception that the state’s beaches were
awash in crude. Oil reached the state’s shoreline only in the
Northwest panhandle.  Keith Overton, the chairman of the Florida Restaurant and
Lodging Association and chief operating officer for  TradeWinds
Island Resorts  in St. Petersburg, Florida, called the shift in
policy “great news for Florida tourism.”  Overton’s hotel has filed a $1.1 million claim. Feinberg’s
facility has received about 2,000 tourism claims from Florida,
Feinberg said in a phone interview on Oct. 4.  Canceled Reservations  Claimants still have to prove their losses resulted from
the spill, and not from a weak economy. Feinberg said letters
and e-mails canceling reservations would be one way to document
a loss in Florida.  “It is fair to at least allow the hotels and motels all
along the Western Gulf to at least file a claim and attempt if
they can, on a case-by-case basis, to demonstrate their
damage,” Feinberg said in the phone interview.  Feinberg also told Bloomberg TV that the claims facility
will issue partial payments beyond the Nov. 23 deadline to file
for emergency checks.  In accepting such interim payments, claimants would retain
the option to sue BP. They waive that right once they accept a
final, permanent check from the facility.  “If somebody doesn’t want to take a lump-sum payment
because they don’t know about the future, don’t take it,”
Feinberg said. “I will agree to make interim payments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
 Lizzie O’Leary  in Washington at 
 loleary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 