-- Junk Bond Demand Paves Way for First-Time Overseas Issuers: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a t i a n a   B a u t z e r   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2010-10-07T21:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/first-time-borrowers-grow-as-scarce-returns-fuel-demand-brazil-credit.html
International bond offerings by
first-time Brazilian issuers are picking up as investors seek
higher-yielding securities after companies sold a record $10.6
billion of debt last month.  Ceagro Agricola Ltda., a Campinas, Sao Paulo-based grain-
trading company, and Banco BVA SA, a Rio de Janeiro-based bank
that specializes in loans to mid-sized companies, plan to issue
debt in debut sales. Three first-time borrowers sold debt so far
this year, including BR Properties SA, a Sao Paulo-based
property developer, which issued $200 million of bonds last
month. There was only one new issuer in all of 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are taking on more risk, giving lower-rated
Brazilian companies a chance to access debt markets, as they
seek higher-yielding alternatives to bonds offering record-low
rates in the U.S., Europe and Japan. Ceagro is rated B, or five
levels below investment grade, by Standard & Poor’s while BVA
hasn’t received a credit rating. By comparison, the companies
that sold bonds abroad last month had a median rating of BBB-,
the lowest investment-grade level.  “Investors are looking for yield and it creates an
opportunity for first-time issuers,”  Bevan Rosenbloom , an
emerging-market debt strategist with RBS Securities Inc. in
Stamford, Connecticut, said in a telephone interview. “With
yields so scarce across the globe, first-time issuers can afford
bonds.”  ‘Low’ Premium  Pedro Daltro , chief financial officer of BR Properties,
said he opted to sell perpetual bonds instead of 10-year notes
on Sept. 30 after receiving stronger-than-expected demand from
mutual funds and other institutional investors in the U.S. and
Europe. BR Properties issued the bonds, which have no set
maturity, to yield 9 percent, or about 100 basis points more
than the company would have paid for 10-year debt, Daltro said.  “The premium over a 10-year note was low,” he said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. The company is rated  B+  by
Fitch Ratings, or four levels below investment grade.  While the average Brazilian corporate dollar bond  yield 
declined to a record low of 5.79 percent today, it remains over
300 basis points, or 3 percentage points, above the rate on
benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasuries.  Yields on two-year Treasuries fell to an all-time low of
0.351 percent today. In Japan, the 10-year yield dropped to 0.83
percent, the lowest level since 2003, one day after policy
makers cut the benchmark interest rate to a range of 0 and 0.1
percent, from 0.1 percent.  Magnesita, BM&FBovespa  The $10.6 billion of bonds that Brazilian companies sold
abroad in September marks the busiest month since Bloomberg
began collecting the data in 1999. They have issued a record
$30.9 billion this year, up from $21.9 billion in all of 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Magnesita Refratarios SA, a Brazilian maker of specialty
tiles used in steel-making furnaces, sold $400 million of 10-
year bonds in its first-ever sale on March 25 while BM&FBovespa
SA, the owner of Latin America’s biggest securities exchange,
sold $612 million of 10-year debt in a debut offering on July 9.  Ceagro plans to sell $100 million of bonds due in 2016 and
is meeting with investors through Oct. 15 to drum up demand,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. A company
official didn’t return e-mail and telephone messages seeking
comment.  Banco BVA may sell as much as $300 million of bonds
maturing in two to three years before year-end, bank President
Benedito Ivo Lodo Filho said in an Oct. 4 telephone interview
from Sao Paulo.  “It’s our first international bond sale, so we are testing
the market with a short-term issue,” Lodo Filho said.  Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell two
basis points yesterday to 201, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes. The gap is down from 251 on June 8.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 fell five basis points to 11.39 percent today at
5:00 p.m. New York time. The real fell 0.1 percent to 1.6810 per
dollar.  ‘Rising’ Demand  Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Brazil’s biggest bank by market
value, is lining up overseas bond offerings by five speculative-
grade companies by year-end,  Joao de Biase , head of debt capital
markets at the bank, said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo.  Most of the companies are “mid-sized” exporters looking
to sell debt with maturities ranging from five to seven years,
de Biase said. He declined to name the companies. Many first-
time issuers hadn’t arranged credit ratings in time to take part
in the September surge in offerings, he said. There have been no
sales so far this month.  “We’ll gradually see more new companies selling bonds,”
 Gustavo Alvares , a debt capital markets banker in Sao Paulo with
JPMorgan, the biggest underwriter of Brazilian overseas bond
offerings this year, said in an interview. “Demand for high-
yield assets is rising, with more funds dedicated to these
bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tatiana Bautzer  in Sao Paulo at 
 tbautzer@bloomberg.net 
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 espinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  