-- Flag-Wrapped Wrestler Cejudo Values Birthright Citizenship Over Gold Medal
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-10-07T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/flag-wrapped-wrestler-cejudo-values-birthright-citizenship-over-gold-medal.html
For  Henry Cejudo , nothing holds more
value than his U.S. citizenship, not even the Olympic gold
medal he won for his country two years ago in Beijing.  “For me not to be able to call myself American would be
like a death in the family,” said Cejudo, 23, who was born in
South Central Los Angeles to illegal Mexican immigrants.  That makes Cejudo, who became the youngest American
wrestler to win gold, a U.S. citizen by birthright and a symbol
in a simmering political dispute over illegal immigration. He
also has something in common with former U.S. Attorney General
 Alberto Gonzales  and astronaut  Jose Hernandez : ancestry that
was either undocumented or questionable in citizenship, and
achievements unhindered by that legacy.  Some Republican lawmakers are challenging a tenet dating
back more than a century that a person born within U.S. borders
is automatically a citizen. They question whether babies born
to illegal immigrants should be granted citizenship.  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  has joined a
group of his colleagues calling for congressional hearings.
Senator  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina has said he may
introduce a proposal to change the 14th Amendment to the
Constitution to do away with that right.  Supporters of ending birthright citizenship say the
practice isn’t appropriate in an age of easy travel. A Pew
Hispanic Center study found that as many as 340,000 of the 4.3
million babies born in the U.S. in 2008 had at least one
illegal immigrant parent.  Giving Away Citizenship  “You can’t give away your citizenship so cavalierly,”
said Roy Beck, executive director of  NumbersUSA , an Arlington,
Virginia-based group that advocates lowering immigration rates.
Beck said he doubts birthright citizenship encourages
immigrants to come to the U.S. illegally. Most come to work and
have babies while they’re here, enticing them to stay, he said.  The  14th Amendment  was enacted after the Civil War to
protect the rights of freed slaves. It confers citizenship on
anyone born in the U.S. and “subject to the jurisdiction
thereof.” The Supreme Court in 1898 said those words excluded
only children of American Indians, diplomats and invading
armies.  Cejudo said that while he understands the frustration over
people entering the U.S. illegally, he doesn’t think children
who come from roots like his should be denied opportunities.  “The U.S. has given me and my family the greatest
opportunity imaginable, he said. “It has given us freedom.
Everyone is completely equal here in this country.”  ‘Human Cockfight’  Cejudo and his six siblings were raised by their mother in
some of the poorest neighborhoods of Los Angeles, Las Cruces,
New Mexico, and Phoenix. He slept on the floor of rundown
studios and one-bedroom apartments and was paid by older men to
fight neighborhood children, once saying he was “learning how
to wrestle in a human cockfight.”  His mother worked several jobs, including at a Chinese
restaurant and in fields picking chilies and fruit, while her
youngest son immersed himself in sports. Until Cejudo arrived
at the Olympic Training Center in Colorado Springs at age 16,
he said he’d never eaten three meals in one day or had his own
bed and a pillow.  “After the win I just grabbed that American flag and I
ran with it,” Cejudo said, recalling his  2008 gold medal
victory  in freestyle wrestling. “It was like my wings. I just
wanted to fly and represent my country.”  ‘A Better Life’  Former Attorney General Gonzales, the nation’s top
prosecutor under Republican President  George W. Bush , has
concerns about changing the Constitution, saying it won’t solve
the illegal immigration problem.  “I don’t think that many people coming into this country
and crossing without documentation do so to become citizens,”
he said in an interview. “They come to this country to provide
for themselves and their families a better life.”  That’s what three of his grandparents did, traveling back
and forth from Mexico to the U.S. to work in fields and dairy
farms. They settled in Texas, and it’s unclear whether they had
legal documentation, he said.  “What the circumstances were, I just don’t know,” said
Gonzales, 55.  His parents met in the fields of Texas picking crops, and
work cut short their education. Gonzales’s mother dropped out
in the sixth grade and his father had a second-grade education.  Harvard Law  Gonzales, who along with seven siblings grew up in a two-
bedroom house, graduated from Harvard Law School and became the
nation’s first Hispanic attorney general. He resigned in 2007
amid accusations he misled Congress about the firing of nine
U.S. attorneys and the handling of an anti-terrorist
eavesdropping program.  “I’ve been blessed with the opportunities that I’ve been
given, and part of that is because I was born in the United
States,” he said.  Lawmakers should focus instead on passing a comprehensive
immigration overhaul, he said. Asked whether the U.S. should
continue birthright citizenship for children of undocumented
immigrants, Gonzales said he’s “in favor of opportunity
because of what it’s meant in my life and for my family.”  “Clearly, children who have no choice in the matter, I
can make a powerful policy argument why we should keep that
policy,” he said. Gonzales said his position doesn’t mean he’s
advocating being “soft” on those entering the country
illegally.  Radio Message  Defenders of birthright citizenship cite astronaut
Hernandez, 48, who was born to Mexican migrant farm workers in
California and didn’t learn to speak English until he was 12.
Hernandez spent much of his childhood traveling with his family
between Mexico and California to work the fields.  He was hoeing a row of sugar beets as a teenager when he
heard on his transistor radio that the first Hispanic-American
had been chosen to fly into space, and decided then he wanted
to be an astronaut, according to the  NASA website . He declined
through a spokeswoman to be interviewed.  Hernandez earned a master’s degree in engineering and
worked for the  Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory  in
California, where his work led to the development of the first
full-field digital mammography imaging system, a tool used to
detect early stage breast cancer.  Hernandez flew into space on the Discovery space shuttle
last year. He’s created the  Reaching for the Stars Foundation ,
a group that helps kids overcome obstacles to reach goals.  Critics of changing the Constitution have said Republican
 Bobby Jindal , Louisiana’s first nonwhite governor since
Reconstruction, may not have been a citizen if such rules were
in place. Jindal’s parents came to the U.S. from India when his
mother was pregnant with him.  Doesn’t Apply  A spokesman for his office, Kyle Plotkin, said Jindal’s
mother was in the U.S. as a permanent resident so any debate
linking him to the issue is “not just ridiculous but
irrelevant.”  Eliminating birthright citizenship would mean everyone,
not just immigrants, would have to prove their status and would
require a federal bureaucracy to determine who is a citizen,
said Michele Waslin, a policy analyst at the  Immigration Policy
Center , a Washington-based nonpartisan research group.  As for Cejudo, he’s bought his own condominium in Phoenix,
where he’s a full-time student at  Grand Canyon University  and
is training five hours a day for the  2012 Olympics  in London.
He also volunteers as a mentor for underprivileged children.  He co-wrote a book, “ American Victory ,” and there are
negotiations on a movie about his life, according to his agent,
William McFarlane.  “I’m living the American Dream,” Cejudo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  