-- Former Cy Young Winner Zito Is Left Off Giants' First-Round Playoff Roster
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-10-07T17:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/former-cy-young-winner-zito-is-left-off-giants-first-round-playoff-roster.html
Barry Zito , a former Cy Young Award
winner and the highest-salaried player on the San Francisco
Giants at $18.5 million this season, was left off their roster
for the first-round playoff series against the Atlanta Braves.  The Giants announced today that Zito, 32, won’t be on their
25-man roster for the best-of-five series. He could return if
San Francisco advances in the playoffs.  The Giants and Braves open their National League Division
Series tonight in San Francisco.  “I’m disappointed in myself for not cracking that
rotation,” Zito told reporters after a team workout yesterday.  Zito received the biggest contract for a pitcher in
Major League Baseball history when he signed a $126 million,
seven-year free-agent pact with the Giants before the 2007
season. The contract runs through 2013.  CC Sabathia  of the New York Yankees ($161 million for seven
years starting in 2009) and  Johan Santana  of the New York Mets
($137.5 million for six years starting in 2008) have since
surpassed Zito’s contract.  Zito won the 2002 Cy Young Award as the best pitcher in the
American League with a 23-5 record for the Oakland Athletics. He
has not had a winning season since he arrived in San Francisco,
going 40-57 in four years with the Giants.  The left-hander was knocked out in the fifth inning of a
loss at Colorado on Sept. 25 and lasted only a season-low three
innings in an Oct. 2 loss to San Diego, when the Giants had a
chance to clinch the NL West title.  Zito forced in two runs with walks in the first inning of
that defeat by the Padres, and was booed at the Giants’ AT&T
Park as he left the game. San Francisco won the division title
the next day.  “The last game is what sticks out,” he said yesterday.
“When the money was on the table, I didn’t go out and attack
the zone like I should have.”  Zito is the second high-salaried pitcher left off a
postseason roster this year. The Yankees left  Javier Vazquez  and
his $11.5 million salary off their roster for a first-round
series against the Minnesota Twins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  