-- Ex-New York Comptroller Hevesi to Plead Guilty of Corruption in Fund Probe
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-10-07T15:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/former-new-york-comptroller-said-to-plan-guilty-plea-in-pension-fund-probe.html
Former New York Comptroller  Alan 
 Hevesi  has agreed to plead guilty to a felony tied to New York
Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo ’s probe of corruption at the
state’s pension fund during 2003-2006, said  Ellen N. Biben , a
prosecutor in Cuomo’s office.  “Defendant has agreed to enter a plea agreement with the
office of the attorney general,” Biben told judge Melissa
Jackson in a Manhattan courtroom this morning. Hevesi is charged
with receiving reward for official misconduct in the second
degree,  according to the court clerk. Hevesi will appear later
before New York Supreme Court justice Lewis Bart Stone.  Hevesi resigned as comptroller after pleading guilty to a
felony in December 2006 for using state employees to chauffeur
around his disabled wife, ending his 35-year career in politics.  Hevesi, a Democrat, was sole trustee of the fund from 2003
to 2006, the official responsible for investing its money. He
allegedly allowed his political consultant,  Henry “Hank” Morris , to corrupt the investment process to benefit money
managers who made campaign contributions and politically
connected placement agents who received lucrative fees.  Cuomo, the Democratic candidate for governor, has spent
more than three years investigating and prosecuting “pay to
play” practices at New York’s Common Retirement Fund, the
third-largest in the U.S., recently valued at $124.8 billion. At
least six people have pleaded guilty to criminal charges, 15
investment firms have settled and more than $130 million has
been paid to the fund and state from the probe.  Cuomo has elicited admissions and cooperation from at least
half a dozen men connected to the corruption.  Choosing Managers  David Loglisci , chief investment officer of the state fund
under Hevesi, pleaded guilty in March to a violation of the
state’s general business law for allowing Morris the power to
choose which money managers received alternative investments
from the pension fund.  Loglisci, who agreed to cooperate, said in court then that
he was instructed by a senior official to get approval from
Morris before recommending or declining investment suggestions.
He also said he ceded authority over alternative investments at
the direction of senior officials.  Ellen N. Biben , a prosecutor in Cuomo’s office, declined to
comment at the time on the identity of the officials.  “The political motivations for investment selection were
chronic and institutionalized throughout the office, creating a
culture of corruption at the highest levels,” Loglisci said in
court.  Tainted by Kickbacks  In all, about $5 billion of the New York state pension
fund’s $9.5 billion in alternative investments made in the 2003-
2007 period were tainted by kickbacks, according to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which is also investigating.  Loglisci had been charged in March 2009 along with Morris
in a 123-count  indictment . Morris, who has pleaded not guilty,
faces trial on enterprise corruption and more than 70 other
charges.  Cuomo has alleged that Morris’s corrupt “group”
participated in 19 separate investments generating $35 million
in placement fees, with Morris himself or entities he owned
taking $19 million.  Morris said in a court filing in March that he didn’t
commit any crimes related to “access and influence” at the
state’s pension fund.  Elliott B. Broidy , founder of Markstone Capital Partners,
pleaded guilty in December, saying he worked with officials at
the comptroller’s office “to confer benefits upon public
servants for having violated their duties.”  Luxury Travel  Broidy said in that in seeking investments from the pension
fund, he made almost $1 million in payments for the benefit of
high-ranking officials, including luxury travel. On five
occasions from 2003 to 2006, he said, he traveled to Israel and
Italy with “high-ranking officials” of the comptroller’s
office.  “In connection with these trips, I paid at least $75,000
in travel expenses incurred by the Office of the New York State
Comptroller officials, as well as the expenses of one official’s
adult children,” Broidy said.  Hevesi and his children took the trips, a person familiar
with the matter said at the time.  Ex-New York Liberal Party Chairman  Raymond B. Harding  also
pleaded guilty in the pension scandal. Harding admitted taking
$800,000 in placement fees in exchange for political favors.  Harding said Morris steered the placement work to him “so
that I could receive hundreds of thousands in fees to reward me
for my political support of Alan Hevesi,” according to a
transcript of his October 2009 guilty-plea hearing in New York
state court in Manhattan.  Hevesi Endorsement  Harding said at the hearing that, under his leadership,
the  Liberal Party  endorsed Hevesi in campaigns including his
successful race for comptroller in 2002.  Harding said he learned in 2004 that Hevesi was trying to
find private sector-employment for an unidentified state
assemblyman to create a vacancy in the Legislature for his son,
 Andrew Hevesi .  Harding said he helped the assemblyman get a job at a
health insurance company. In May 2005,  Andrew Hevesi  was elected
to the vacant seat.  “Alan Hevesi later thanked me for my assistance,” Harding
said.  Calls in the last week to Andrew Hevesi’s assembly office
haven’t been returned.  Saul Meyer , founder of Dallas-based pension consultant
 Aldus Equity , pleaded guilty last October to fraud charges,
saying he paid $300,000 to Morris to secure money from the
pension fund.  New Mexico  Meyer also obtained $200 million more than the original
commitment to the Aldus/NY Emerging Fund at the same time he
helped a son of Hevesi place $25 million at a public pension
fund in New Mexico, according to the complaint against Meyer.
Aldus was an adviser to the New Mexico pension fund and
recommended that the deal go through. Cuomo has identified the
son as  Daniel Hevesi .  The son earned a $250,000 fee for New Mexico’s investment
with a fund known as Catterton Partners VI, according to the
complaint. He thanked Meyer for “NM,” records obtained by
Cuomo’s office show.  Calls to New York attorney Laura Brevetti, who has
represented Daniel Hevesi, weren’t returned.  Earlier,  Barrett Wissman , a Dallas fund manager accused of
paying and receiving kickbacks, and  Julio Ramirez Jr. , a Los
Angeles placement agent who solicited and shared in illicit
payments, pleaded guilty in connection with the probe. Wissman
and Ramirez also are cooperating with Cuomo.  Queens College  Before his 2002 election as state comptroller, Hevesi
served for eight years as New York City’s comptroller. He spent
22 years in the state Assembly, representing a district in the
borough of Queens while he was a professor of political science
at Queens College. He holds a doctorate in public law and
government from Columbia University.  Hevesi was re-elected to a second term as state comptroller
in November 2006 in the face of a finding by the state ethics
commission that he had violated the law.  The next month, he pleaded guilty to defrauding the
government and agreed to resign from office. He admitted using
state employees as drivers and personal aides for his disabled
wife. Hevesi’s 2006 plea deal spared him prison time.  Current state Comptroller  Thomas P. DiNapoli , a Democrat
chosen by the Assembly to succeed Hevesi, has banned the use of
placement agents or lobbyists in investments with the fund, and
banned contributions from those who do business with the fund.  Cuomo  supports  legislation  to establish a board of trustees
to oversee the state pension fund in place of the current sole
trustee.  Nationally, state and federal prosecutors are investigating
whether money managers made campaign contributions and illegally
paid politically connected placement agents for access to the $2
trillion in U.S. public retirement funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 