-- France Seeks Eurostar Train Tender Rethink After Siemens Beats Alstom
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-10-07T16:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/france-seeks-eurostar-train-tender-rethink-after-siemens-beats-alstom.html
France called on Eurostar Group Ltd.,
the operator of high-speed trains through the Channel Tunnel, to
review a contract tender for 10 high-speed trains after Paris-
based  Alstom SA  lost out on the order to  Siemens AG  of Germany.  In a joint statement expressing “stupefaction” at the
decision, Energy Minister  Jean-Louis Borloo  and Transport
Minister  Dominique Bussereau  said that as so-called multiple
units with motors under every carriage, the Siemens trains do
not meet safety conditions for rolling stock using the tunnel.  “Eurostar must bring the contract tender into compliance
with current safety rules,” the ministers said in a statement
today. The Anglo-French inter-governmental committee responsible
for tunnel safety will have to carry out “exhaustive studies”
before authorizing the use of “distributed traction,” they said.  U.K. Transport Secretary  Stephen Hammond , speaking at a
Eurostar press conference in London, said that while the safety
committee will need to be “fully satisfied,” he doesn’t regard
the French government’s concerns as “substantive.”  The French intervention came after Eurostar said it will
spend 700 million pounds ($1.1 billion) to acquire the 10 new
Siemens expresses and upgrade existing rolling stock to add
destinations including Amsterdam, Cologne and Frankfurt from
London by 2014. The revamp was announced 12 days before  Deutsche
Bahn AG  runs a similar Siemens train through the tunnel in
preparation for services to the same cities a year earlier.  Together with Groupe Eurotunnel SA, which operates the
undersea rail link, state-owned Deutsche Bahn is pressing for a
change in safety rules to allow its stock to use the route.  Length Issue  Eurostar’s existing Alstom trains, which link London with
Paris and Brussels, are the only ones that meet safety criteria
including the ability to split in two in the event of a fire and
a 375-meter length requirement linked to evacuation procedures.  While Eurostar’s new Siemens e320 trains, so-called because
they reach a top speed of 320 kilometers an hour (198 mph), are
400 meters long, their multiple motors may pose a greater fire
risk and make splitting the units more complicated than with the
existing locomotive-hauled fleet.  Deutsche Bahn plans to use a variant of Siemens’s
InterCityExpress, or ICE, model, which is also a multiple unit.  Alstom said today that current safety rules “do not permit”
the use of the Siemens trains. The company will cut 4,000 jobs
at its power equipment and service division after orders dropped
35 percent in the April-June period, it said on Oct. 4. New
business at the transport unit fell 37 percent in the quarter.  Alstom was rescued in 2004 by a bail-out led by then
finance minister  Nicolas Sarkozy , three years before he became
France’s president.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  