-- Freeport, Teck, Grupo Mexico Likely M&A Targets, Bernstein Says
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-10-07T13:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/freeport-teck-grupo-mexico-likely-m-a-targets-bernstein-says.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. ,
the world’s biggest listed copper producer, Teck Resources Ltd.
and  Grupo Mexico SAB  are likely takeover targets for rival
mining companies, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “The mining industry is enjoying a period of exceptionally
strong cash flows as a result of relatively high commodity
prices,”  Paul Galloway , a London-based analyst at Bernstein,
said today in a report, citing 13 possible targets. “The
industry’s balance sheets are also relatively un-geared compared
to historical levels.”  Commodities companies, including miners, oil producers and
chemical makers, have announced $413 billion of takeovers so far
this year.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest miner, made a
$40 billion hostile offer for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. 
in August, which would be the largest takeover in the
commodities industry since Rio Tinto Group bought Alcan Inc. in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Freeport, which has a market value of $44 billion, is a
likely target given it’s the biggest publicly traded copper
producer, Bernstein said, adding that the cost of a takeover may
deter bidders. Chile’s state-owned Codelco is the world’s
largest copper miner.  Teck Resources , Canada’s biggest diversified miner, is also
an attractive target given its coking-coal assets, according to
the report.  Grupo Mexico, the nation’s largest mining company, Ivanhoe
Mines Ltd.,  Cameco Corp. , Alcoa Inc. and Cliffs Natural
Resources Inc. are other possible acquisition targets, Bernstein
said. BHP,  Rio Tinto  and Brazil’s Vale SA are all potential
acquirers, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 