-- G-20's Interventions Risk Protectionist Reprisals
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-10-07T08:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/g-20-mega-trend-interventions-risk-protectionist-wave-as-officials-meet.html
The race for cheaper currencies may
have only just begun as nations from Japan to Brazil seek a
competitive edge in international trade.  Japan last month intervened for the first time in six years
to restrain the yen, while China is resisting calls to let the
yuan rise faster. At the same time, a potential revival of U.S. 
and U.K. asset-purchase plans may spark declines in their
currencies. UBS AG says the “mega-trend” of interventions will
roil the $4 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market for the next
decade.  While lower exchange rates can lift an economy by helping
exports, the danger is that the moves escalate into devaluations
and protectionist retaliation, impeding global growth. Brazil’s
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , a delegate to the International
Monetary Fund annual meetings in Washington this week, said
Sept. 27 that there’s already a worldwide “currency war.”  “There’s a real danger of a more unilateral approach
taking hold,” said  Mansoor Mohi-uddin , the Singapore-based head
of global currency strategy at UBS, the world’s second-biggest
currency trader. “There will be more countries outright
intervening and others inadvertently weakening their
currencies.”  Aussie, Yen Rise  Australia’s currency strengthened 1.1 percent today to
98.79 U.S. cents at 4:06 p.m. in Sydney, a record high versus
the dollar, after the nation’s employers unexpectedly stepped up
hiring. The yen appreciated to 82.66 per dollar, a 15-year high.  Even as Group of 20 finance deputies meet today in the U.S.
capital, followed by a G-7 ministers’  dinner  tomorrow, officials
aren’t signaling a return to the currency accords of the 1980s.
Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said he’s ready to
explain his country’s recent currency sales at the talks.  “All this serves to highlight the tensions building,”
said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. in London. The camps are composed of “those
who believe in the need for greater discipline in the currency
markets and those who believe that official interference leads
to ever increasing distortions,” he said.  Tim Adams , the Treasury’s top international official during
 George W. Bush ’s administration, says it’s more of a currency
“skirmish” than a “war” and is unlikely to end in policy
makers trying to restore order as they did when the 1985 Plaza
Accord weakened the dollar and the Louvre Accord buoyed it two
years later.  ‘Smoothing Operations’  Japanese Vice Finance Minister  Fumihiko Igarashi  said in an
interview in Tokyo that his government isn’t seeking to “engage
in a currency-devaluation race,” while it may “conduct
smoothing operations when movements are extremely volatile.”  The G-7 hasn’t intervened in a coordinated way since 2000,
and its ability to influence the currency market has diminished
as daily trading more than doubled from $1.7 trillion in 1998.  Having all but exhausted traditional monetary and fiscal
policies, industrial nations are looking for new ways to spark
growth amid subdued domestic demand, while emerging markets want
to maintain the advantage in commerce that helped power them
through the credit crisis. The IMF yesterday said the world
economy will expand 4.2 percent in 2011, down from its forecast
of 4.3 percent three months ago.  Plaza Accord  Even if a modern version of the Plaza Accord isn’t likely,
direct or indirect forms of intervention will set the tone,
causing a weaker U.S. dollar and British pound, and buoying the
Australian currency, as its central bank tolerates gains, said
Mohi-uddin, 40, who predicted a new age of intervention in a May
report.  Five months later, that forecast is panning out as the
yen’s rise to a 15-year high against the dollar last month led
Japan to sell its currency. South Korea, Brazil and Switzerland
are among the countries that have also acted this year. Thai
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said yesterday in an interview
at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York that his nation may do
more to relax limits on money outflows to help exporters.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who chairs the G-7
meeting tomorrow, said yesterday that “there are concerns about
interventions in currency markets” and that he’s “sure” the
issue would be discussed in Washington.  Undervalued Yuan  China is accused of artificially undervaluing the yuan,
having limited its gains against the dollar to about 2 percent
since a June pledge to make it more flexible. The country held
the yuan at about 6.83 per dollar two years prior to that to
shield its exporters from the global crisis.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  yesterday said a
“damaging dynamic” of large economies keeping their currencies
undervalued can cause quicker inflation and asset bubbles, and
restrict growth.  “China has to redirect its policy to a more domestic-
driven growth and having less dependence toward exports,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs a
panel of euro-area finance ministers, said in an Oct. 5
interview.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  yesterday reiterated his view
that a rapid increase of the yuan would hobble China’s economy,
dealing a fresh rebuke to U.S. and European calls for a higher
exchange rate.  “If the yuan isn’t stable, it will bring disaster to China
and the world,” Wen said. “If we increase the yuan by 20
percent to 40 percent as some people are calling for, many of
our factories will shut down and society will be in turmoil.”  Fed Moves  Geithner yesterday refrained from singling out Japan’s
Sept. 15 currency intervention as a concern, saying he didn’t
think Japan had set off the dynamic of currency tensions.  Even if the U.S. doesn’t intervene to depress the dollar,
the Federal Reserve may still end up doing so by boosting its
bond-buying program, said Derrick.  “Though they may say they’re just trying to revive the
economy and believe in a strong dollar, there are plenty of
people outside the U.S. who would point the finger fairly
directly and say this is evidence the U.S. is following a policy
of benign neglect” of its currency, said Derrick.  Trade tensions are already brewing. The U.S. House of
Representatives last month passed a measure that would let
domestic companies petition for duties on Chinese imports.
Historians blame a trade war during the Great Depression,
starting with the U.S. passage of the  Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act  in
1930, for deepening the worldwide economic slump.  “The esprit-de-corps is dissipating and each economy is
pursuing policies that are in their own interest,” said Adams,
now managing director at the Fairfax, Virginia-based Lindsey
Group, an economic advisory firm.  Capital Controls  Emerging markets may resort to more capital controls if
interventions fail to temper currency gains, said  David Lubin ,
chief emerging markets economist at Citigroup Inc. in London.
Brazil this week doubled a tax on foreigners investing in fixed-
income securities to 4 percent.  The Washington-based Institute of International Finance, an
industry group that represents some of the world’s largest
financial companies, wants governments to “hammer out an
understanding” on currency issues.  For now, the discord is puncturing the G-20’s united front
formed to fight the credit crisis.  “These recent events are illustrative of the fact that the
pressures for adjustment are building,” Bank of Canada Senior
Deputy Governor  Tiff Macklem , 49, said in an Oct. 6 interview.
“The stakes are getting higher.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  