-- Genzyme's Defense Against Hostile Sanofi Takeover Is Time
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-10-07T20:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/genzyme-s-do-nothing-defense-may-fend-off-sanofi-takeover-bid-until-2011.html
Time may be  Genzyme  Corp.’s best
defense against  Sanofi-Aventis  SA’s $18.5 billion hostile
takeover, after the U.S. company shed protections that could
have helped deflect an unwanted suitor.  Sanofi made a $69-a-share tender offer Oct. 4, after
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme spurned that bid as too
low and refused to negotiate. Genzyme no longer has a poison
pill to dilute any stake Sanofi gains. It also changed its
charter to re-elect all directors annually, making the board
vulnerable to complete replacement by a majority shareholder.  Massachusetts law still provides a protection: it requires
board approval even after a tender offer succeeds, said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group Inc. Should Genzyme
refuse to clear a deal, Sanofi couldn’t attempt to replace the
directors until an annual meeting in mid-2011. That gives
Genzyme time to show progress in fixing manufacturing defects
that slashed drug sales, and to show the promise of up-and-
coming experimental treatments, said  Les Funtleyder , an analyst
with Miller Tabak & Co.  “It’s in Genzyme’s interest to stretch out the process a
bit,” Funtleyder, who is based in New York, said in an Oct. 6
telephone interview. Genzyme’s stock has a floor of $69 as long
as Paris-based Sanofi’s offer remains on the table, he said.
“Two things could happen: bad things, and you still have a $69
offer, or good things, and the value of Genzyme goes up.”  The stock has traded above Sanofi’s offer every day since
it was made on Aug. 29, suggesting Genzyme Chief Executive
Officer  Henri Termeer  has investors on his side in holding out
for a higher bid. Genzyme rose 61 cents to $72.36 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading .  Genzyme Meeting  Genzyme urged investors not to act on Sanofi’s offer until
after it reviews the proposal with financial and legal advisers.
Genzyme said in an Oct. 4 statement that it would make its
recommendation within 10 business days in a regulatory filing.  Genzyme spokesman  Bo Piela  declined to comment. Sanofi
spokesman  Jean-Marc Podvin  didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  “I am sure that Termeer will defend his shareholders until
the last cent,” said  Amit Shabi , co-manager of Bernheim,
Dreyfus & Co.’s Diva Synergy Fund, an event-driven fund focused
on acquisition targets that owns Genzyme shares. “So we trust
him. And he’s right not talking to Sanofi at this price.”  Shabi, based in Paris, said he would “happily sell at $80,
and with regrets at $76.” At $69? “Never.”  Justify a Boost  Termeer will likely keep refusing to negotiate until Sanofi
increases its bid, Shabi said. Sanofi CEO  Chris Viehbacher  said
the company would be willing to raise its offer if Genzyme
provided details to justify a boost.  Genzyme’s stock sank as much as 43 percent from a 2008 high
of $83.25 after a viral contamination at its plant in Allston,
Massachusetts, caused shortages of top-selling drugs Cerezyme
and Fabrazyme. The company, the world’s largest maker of
medicines for rare genetic disorders, told Sanofi in August that
its offer didn’t recognize progress in resolving production
issues or the potential for its pipeline of experimental drugs.  Termeer, by declining to negotiate, “is buying some time
to look for a white knight,” Shabi said, citing Indianapolis-
based Eli Lilly & Co. as another potential bidder.  Lilly bought ImClone Systems Inc. in 2008 in a deal
orchestrated by billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  after an
unsolicited, lower bid from Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. Lilly CEO
 John Lechleiter  has said repeatedly the drugmaker isn’t seeking
large acquisitions or a combination even with pending patent
expirations on several top-selling drugs in the next few years.
Lilly spokesman  Mark Taylor  said the company’s policy is not to
comment on market rumors and deal speculation.  Icahn’s Seats  Icahn, one of Genzyme’s top shareholders, controls two
seats on the biotechnology company’s board.  “Any shareholder worth their salt would love to see
another bidder come in,” said ISI Group’s Schoenebaum, who is
based in New York, in an Oct. 4 telephone interview.  Termeer’s time isn’t limitless, said  Phil Nadeau , an
analyst with Cowen & Co. Short-term investors who got into the
stock based on the sale potential will gradually step up
pressure on Termeer to start talks with Sanofi, Nadeau said.  “Investors realize that if they play too hard to get, if
Sanofi were to walk away, the stock would fall well below $69,”
Nadeau said in an Oct. 5 telephone interview. “Over time,
pressure will increase on Genzyme’s board to turn this into a
friendly situation.”  At the urging of institutional investors, Genzyme changed
its  charter  in 2006 to put its entire board of directors up for
re-election every year. The company let its so-called poison
pill expire in March 2009, losing the protection of a provision
that gives shareholders the right to buy new stock at a discount
and dilute the stake of a hostile bidder.  ‘Fiduciary Duties’  The moves fit with a trend of companies shifting power to
investors and away from management, said  Paul Regan , associate
professor at Widener University School of Law in Wilmington,
Delaware.  “The directors have fiduciary duties to the company and
stockholders to act in an informed way and in a loyal way,”
Regan said by telephone Oct. 4. They need to do “what’s best
for stockholders, not jobs for management -- that’s the
obligation.”  The deal would be the biggest hostile takeover in the drug
industry since the transaction that created Sanofi-Aventis in
2004, according to Bloomberg data. Sanofi-Synthelabo acquired
Aventis for about $64 billion after raising its bid once. Sanofi
has announced 35 acquisitions in the past five years, with an
average size of $1.6 billion and an average premium of 15
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sanofi’s Loans  Sanofi said Oct. 4 that BNP Paribas SA, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Societe Generale SA agreed to provide loans of $15
billion to help finance the takeover bid. Its tender offer
expires Dec. 10.  That’s longer than the typical tender offer period of about
20 days, indicating Sanofi expects a drawn-out timetable,
according to a person familiar with the situation who spoke on
the condition of anonymity.  Genzyme’s filing in response to the proposal, if detailed
and lengthy, may suggest that the biotechnology company is under
pressure from hedge funds and other short-term investors to
consider a sale, said the person, who declined to be named
because the deliberations are private.  Sanofi’s lead financial advisers for the transaction are
Evercore Partners and JPMorgan, and its legal adviser is Weil,
Gotshal & Manges LLP. Genzyme’s financial advisers are Credit
Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Goldman, Sachs & Co., and its
legal adviser is Ropes & Gray LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 