-- Sanofi Price Range for Genzyme Purchase as High as $80-a-Share
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l ,   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-10-08T09:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/genzyme-urges-shareholders-to-reject-sanofi-s-69-a-share-tender-offer.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA  Chief Executive
 Chris Viehbacher  provided a possible price range of $69 to $80 a
share to buy Genzyme Corp. at a Sept. 20 meeting with the U.S.
company’s chief, Genzyme said.  Henri Termeer , the Genzyme CEO, declined to agree to the
range, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme said in a
regulatory filing yesterday. Sanofi today denied making such a
proposal. “We offered no price range and Genzyme continued to
refuse to engage with us on valuation,” Sanofi spokesman  Jean- Marc Podvin  said by telephone today.  Sanofi’s existing bid of $18.5 billion, or $69 a share, is
“inadequate and opportunistic,” Genzyme said yesterday, urging
shareholders to reject the hostile tender offer.  Since Paris-based Sanofi made its bid public on Aug. 29,
Genzyme has closed each day higher than $69, indicating
investors are betting the offer will rise. When the two CEOs
met, Viehbacher said the price range he was proposing was
“manageable but that, based on his current understanding, he
could not get to $80 a share,” according to the filing.  “We strongly disagree with Genzyme’s characterization of
the Sept. 20 meeting between our CEOs,” Sanofi’s Podvin said
today. “At that meeting we made a variety of efforts to move
the process forward, including discussing the merits of our $69-
per-share offer and trying to understand if media reports about
Genzyme’s price expectations were accurate.”  Shares Rise  Genzyme, the largest maker of medicines for rare genetic
disorders, rose 64 cents to $73 in extended Nasdaq Stock Market
trading yesterday. The stock had dropped as much as 43 percent
from a 2008 high of $83.25 after contamination at a Boston plant
caused drug shortages that eroded sales. Sanofi fell 13 cents,
or 0.3 percent, to 48.92 euros at 11:40 a.m. in Paris today.  “The mere mention of $80 should be enough to hearten
Genzyme shareholders,” said  Les Funtleyder , a Miller Tabak &
Co. analyst in New York, in a telephone interview yesterday.  Genzyme’s  board  cleared its advisers to contact third
parties to “evaluate alternatives for the company and its
assets,” the filing said. The company hasn’t yet reached out to
potential suitors, spokesman  Bo Piela  said in a telephone
interview yesterday. Piela declined to say whether Genzyme might
begin an auction to sell itself.  During the Sept. 20 meeting, Viehbacher asked Termeer to
“provide a price range at which a deal could be consummated,
and proposed that the parties agree to a price range of from $69
per share to $80 per share,” the filing said.  ‘Inappropriate Price’  Termeer “declined to agree” and “reiterated the company
board’s unanimous view that $69 per share was an inappropriate
price at which to commence negotiations.”  Viehbacher said Oct. 4 he would be willing to raise his
offer if Genzyme provided details to justify a boost. Termeer
asked for a higher bid when the two men met Sept. 20, though he
didn’t specify a price, Viehbacher said in interview with
Bloomberg Television.  “I’m not going to bid against myself,” Viehbacher said
Oct. 4. “We’ve put a compelling offer on the table. I’m not
prepared to increase the price unless someone really adds
something concrete in terms of information.” Sanofi’s tender
offer expires Dec. 10.  Termeer said in an Aug. 31 interview that he was open to
selling the biotechnology company at a “fair value,” higher
than Sanofi’s offer.  “Every company is for sale at some price,” Termeer said
that day. “The company is not for sale at $69 and we made that
clear.”  New Medicines  Genzyme said it will introduce three medicines by the end
of 2013 that aren’t valued by Sanofi’s offer, according to
yesterday’s filing. The company will seek an added approval of
its blood-cancer drug Campath as a remedy for multiple
sclerosis. Genzyme also anticipates clearance of mipomersen to
treat high cholesterol and the pill eliglustat for Gaucher
disease.  The new drugs are likely to help Genzyme lure at least one
bidder to rival Sanofi and push the final sale price to as much
as $78 a share, said  Michael Yee , an RBC Capital Markets analyst
based in San Francisco. Combined, the treatments may reap annual
revenue of more than $1.5 billion, Yee said.  “What happens here is the bid goes higher and Genzyme is
likely to extract more value,” Yee said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “During my conversations with investors,
that high-to-mid-70s range is where things start to get
compelling.”  Possible Bidders  Large drugmakers led by  Pfizer Inc.  of New York and New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson  may emerge as a
rival bidders for Genzyme, Yee said.  J&J spokesman  Jeffrey Leebaw  declined to comment in an e-
mail yesterday. Pfizer spokesman  Ray Kerins  didn’t immediately
return a call for comment after regular business hours.  The deal would be the biggest hostile takeover in the drug
industry since the $64 billion transaction that created Sanofi-
Aventis in 2004, according to Bloomberg data. Sanofi has
announced 35 acquisitions in the past five years, with an
average size of $1.6 billion and an average premium of 15
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Typically the first bid is not the best and final bid,”
 Phil Nadeau , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New York, said in an
Oct. 5 telephone interview. “It’s normal for the shares to
trade above the first hostile bid.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net 
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  