-- George Washington Bio Shows Fancy Dresser, Nutty Mom: Interview
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/george-washington-fancy-dresser-had-nutty-mom-interview-with-ron-chernow.html
He really did have trouble with his
teeth, but everything else most of us know about  George Washington  will need some readjustment now that  Ron Chernow  has
produced his splendidly detailed biography of the first
president of the United States.  Decades and hundreds of pages pass before the dashing young
military prodigy of the French and Indian War turns into the
resolute general, and then, finally, the wise, unflappable
leader of the nation.  Along the way, we meet his unhinged mother, his generous
wife, friends, retainers, villains -- and some of the smartest
men who ever breathed free air.  We spoke over lunch at Bloomberg’s world headquarters in New
York.  Hoelterhoff: That’s an eye-catching cover of the 6-foot-
tall Washington on his handsome mount. It was interesting to
read how much thought he put into ordering up the right kind of
socks and vests from England.  Chernow: If he approached a town by carriage, he would get
out of the coach and get up on a white horse -- he would always
bring along one or two white parade horses -- because he knew
that he looked terrific on a white horse.  During the Revolutionary War, he was so concerned with
appearance that he decided to establish a personal guard, and
wrote to his officers that the people in this guard should not
be shorter than 5’8” or taller than 5’10.” A year later, he sent
out a follow-up letter in which he says the guard should not be
shorter than 5’9” or taller than 5’10” -- so he has actually
narrowed it.  The Man  Hoelterhoff: Without Washington the war would not have been
won, is that it?  Chernow: I don’t think so. Okay, Washington’s not perfect
and he’s really rather middling as a battlefield leader.  But take him out of the picture, and then take any of the
other characters in this book and put them in Washington’s
place.  We don’t win. There’s not another figure of that strength
of personality and character.  His political skills were extraordinary and he had the
ability to hold the army together. The army was the closest we
had to a nation in many ways, because otherwise there were just
13 squabbling states.  Hoelterhoff: Throughout a rather busy life, he writes
poised letters, though one really stands out, given his complex
feelings about slavery.  Come Visit  Chernow: At the very beginning of the Revolutionary War, he
receives an ode in his honor from Phillis Wheatley, then the
most famous black person -- she was still a slave and a
published poet.  Washington sits down when he receives this ode, writes her
a beautiful letter, which at one time he would only have written
to a duchess. He invites her to come and visit him at
headquarters, which apparently she did.  Hoelterhoff: The story of his life is also the story of his
marriage.  Chernow: They made the most extraordinary sacrifices of
their private life.  For me, arguably the saddest entry in all of Washington’s
papers came in June of 1785. In December 1783, he finally goes
back to Mount Vernon, having only returned once during the 8 1/2
years of the war.  So one-and-a-half years after he’s back in Mount Vernon, he
records in his diary, “I dined alone with Mrs. Washington today
for the first time since returning from the war.”  Hoelterhoff: Why?  Lots of Company  Chernow: Because at the end of the war, all of these
veterans, tourists and curiosity seekers start descending on
Mount Vernon. According to the hospitality at the time, you
would feed people and put them up for the night.  So here’s George Washington, the most famous man in
America, maybe in the world at that point, sitting at dinner
every night with all these strangers at the table and he never
gets to have a meal alone with his wife.  Hoelterhoff: She comes across as a real soul-mate, devoted
and intelligent. Then there’s his mother, who pops up every 100
pages like comic relief.  In the middle of the French and Indian war, she wants him
to send her butter. Later she absurdly claims that she’s
indigent and petitions the Virginia legislature for assistance!  Chernow: We don’t have a single sentence of George
Washington’s mother saying one complimentary thing about his
being commander-in-chief or president.  Wisdom  Hoelterhoff: Washington was surrounded by smart men like
Hamilton and Jefferson. How was he different? What made him
special?  Chernow: He has wisdom and vision. He has unerring
judgment. He has force of character, force of personality. He
has fortitude. He has patience. He has will power. He has all of
these virtues that they don’t have.  I think that in a revolution you need two types of people.  You need people who generate ideas, people who can create
new doctrines and new institutions. And then you need a
Washington, someone smart enough to grasp the ideas, to latch
onto them and implement them.  I think any other human being would have completely
collapsed under the weight of running the Continental Army for 8
1/2 years. It was an exercise in extreme frustration.  Hoelterhoff: It’s hard to imagine what he would think of
today’s politicians and pollsters.  Chernow: His was a very partisan time. Hamilton, Adams,
these people were brilliant at slashing each other. But they had
a sense of integrity. Their views were coming directly out of
their values and directly out of their experience.  I think that politics today with pollsters and focus groups
would be so alien to them. I can’t even think of an 18th-century
analogy to that.  The Feud  Hoelterhoff: Your last book focused on Hamilton. What made
you want to spend five more years or so in that era?  Chernow: When I was writing the Hamilton biography, I was
reading the letters that he wrote in the days after he had this
feud with Washington over a silly matter.  Hamilton then writes a letter to his father-in-law in which
he describes Washington as very moody, difficult and
temperamental. And I can remember reading that letter and
thinking: That’s what George Washington was like?  I was really stunned. I had never seen that description of
him before.  And that got me curious to find out: Well, who is this man?  To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Manuela Hoelterhoff  is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed
are her own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 