-- German August Industrial Production Jumps More Than Forecast
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-10-07T10:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/german-industrial-production-rose-more-than-economists-forecast-in-august.html
Industrial production  in Germany,
Europe’s largest economy, increased more than three times as
much as economists forecast in August, led by demand for
investment goods such as machinery.  Production jumped 1.7 percent from July, when it rose 0.1
percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today. Economists
had forecast a gain of 0.5 percent, the median of 36 estimates
in a  Bloomberg News survey  showed. From a year earlier,
production increased 10.7 percent when adjusted for the number
of work days after rising 10.9 percent in July.  Today’s data adds to signs that Germany’s slowdown from the
fastest growth in almost two decades in the second quarter may
be limited.  Factory orders  surged in August and  business
confidence  rose to the highest level in more than three years in
September. Nevertheless, the euro’s 17 percent gain against the
dollar over the past four months may dent export demand outside
the euro area, curbing production.  “After the buoyant dynamic in spring, we’ll see a
normalization in industrial-production growth over the coming
months as the global economy weakens,” said  Alexander Koch , an
economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “However, gross
domestic product growth will remain robust.”  The euro was little changed after the release, trading at
$1.3970 at 12:44 p.m. in Frankfurt, up from $1.3930 yesterday.  ‘Upward Trend’  Manufacturing output rose 1.8 percent in August from the
previous month, today’s report showed. Output of investment
goods jumped 2.6 percent in the month and production of durable
consumer goods gained 2.4 percent. Construction output slipped
0.4 percent, the ministry said.  “As expected, the upward trend of industrial production
weakened after the extraordinary dynamic in the second
quarter,” the ministry said in the statement. “But due to the
improved order situation, the upward trend should continue.”  The European Commission last month raised its forecast for
German economic growth this year to 3.4 percent from a
previously projected 1.2 percent. The 16-member  euro region  is
seen expanding 1.7 percent with more “moderate” growth in the
second half, according to the Brussels-based commission.  China’s Expansion  Siemens AG , Europe’s largest engineering company based in
Munich, on Sept. 27 predicted an increase in fiscal fourth-
quarter profit to “very satisfactory” levels as orders for
industrial equipment rebound.  BASF SE , the world’s biggest
chemical maker, expects a jump in sales this year after demand
from China spurred production during the usually slower summer
months, the company said Sept. 22.  China’s expansion has served as a “linchpin” for global
trade, benefiting economies like Germany that sell capital
goods, the International Monetary Fund said yesterday. Still,
“China will provide only a partial offset to the weaker demand
from advanced economies,” the Washington-based fund said.  “The euro zone’s largest economy seems to be faring
surprisingly well,” said  Jennifer McKeown , an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “But with the industrial
surveys pointing to a sharp slowdown to come, a sustained
recovery would require stronger consumer spending growth.”  The euro-area economy, Germany’s biggest export market, is
showing signs of weakening. A gauge of growth in the  services
and manufacturing   industries  in the region weakened to a seven-
month low in September and  unemployment  held at 10.1 percent in
August, the highest in more than 12 years.  Europe’s recovery “has finally gained some vigor, but it
is still likely to be moderate and uneven,” the IMF said.
“Downside risks still loom large.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  