-- Global Government Debt Levels on `Explosive Path,' S&P Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/global-sovereign-debt-is-on-an-explosive-path-standard-poor-s-says.html
Public debt in some of the world’s
largest economies is on an “explosive path” as aging
populations and the cost of fighting the financial crisis erode
government finances,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  Based on current fiscal policies, median net debt as a
percentage of gross domestic product in 49 economies accounting
for more than two-thirds of the world’s population will rise to
245 percent by 2050, the ratings company said in an e-mailed
report in London today. That compares with a 2007 forecast of
148 percent.  Budget deficits and sovereign debt have ballooned worldwide
after governments spent trillions of dollars in stimulus to
revive growth. In Europe, mounting fiscal problems forced Greece
to seek a European Union-led bailout in May, while Irish and
Portuguese borrowing costs have soared on concern that they may
also need aid.  S&P estimates that the current median debt level of the 49
countries in the survey, which includes most members of the
European Union, as well as the U.S., China and Australia, is
about 36 percent of GDP.  As aging populations drive up costs for pensions and other
social services, increases in debt will likely lead to
sovereign-rating downgrades unless governments change their
fiscal policies, it said.  “Population aging will lead to profound changes in
economic growth prospects for countries around the world,” S&P
said in the report. “The erosion in sovereign ratings would
start in 2015, when hypothetical ratings on a number of highly
rated sovereigns come under pressure.”  Spending pressure will push up government debt to about 750
percent of economic output in Japan by 2050, around 590 percent
in the Netherlands and 510 percent in Greece, S&P said. The
average government deficit may climb from a current level of 4.5
percent of GDP to more than 6 percent by the mid-2020s based on
current fiscal policies, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  