-- GM Gets Better Rating From S&P Than Ford on Cash Flow
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-10-07T20:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/gm-bailed-out-by-u-s-gets-better-rating-from-s-p-than-ford-on-cash-flow.html
General Motors Co. , 61 percent owned
by the Treasury Department, was given a higher credit rating by
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services than  Ford Motor Co. , the only
major U.S. automaker to avoid bankruptcy last year.  The credit service today said it assigned Detroit-based GM
a BB- rating with a stable outlook. It had previously given Ford
a B+ rating with a positive outlook. GM’s rating is three levels
below investment grade.  “There’s a lot of similarities but there are also some
differences,”  Robert Schulz , a Standard & Poor’s credit
analyst, said in a telephone interview.  GM has good prospects for generating cash from its
operations in China and Brazil and has an improved balance sheet
after emerging from bankruptcy in July 2009, he said.  Ford is ahead on its North America turnaround while it
still has a substantial amount of debt, he said.  “We expect Ford’s credit measures to be improving because
of the improvement in the earnings, whereas GM, some of the
balance sheet metrics are strong or relatively better because of
the debt reduction,” he said.  The rating comes a day after Fitch Ratings gave GM a BB-
rating, the same as Ford’s.  GM  and the U.S. Treasury aim to hold
an $8 billion to $10 billion IPO in November, two people
familiar with the plans said last month. GM had $8.2 billion in
debt at the end of the second quarter, S&P said.  Reduced Risk  GM’s lower cost base and slow industry recovery “have
greatly reduced the risk that GM’s liquidity position would
revert to dangerously low levels in the next few years,” S&P
said.  Both automakers have underfunded pension plans. GM’s is
underfunded by $27 billion through 2009, Fitch said. Ford’s is
underfunded by about $6.1 billion, Fitch said in an Aug. 6
report.  Ford  has about $27 billion in debt, Fitch said.  The automaker, based in Dearborn, Michigan, is making
progress toward returning to an investment-grade credit rating,
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  said Sept. 29 at the Paris
Motor Show.  “We’re ahead of plan in repairing our balance sheet and
getting back to investment grade,” Mulally told Bloomberg
Television at a news conference on the eve of the show.  Lewis Booth , Ford’s chief financial officer, said regaining
the investment-grade rating is a “rallying cry” for the
automaker.  GM’s 8.375 percent bonds due July 2033, which were issued
by old General Motors Corp. and convert to shares in the new GM,
rose 0.375 cent on the dollar to 34.875 cents in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-pricing service of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Ford’s 7.45 percent notes due in July 2031 rose 0.25 cent
to 108.5 cents in New York, according to Trace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Higgins  at   thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  