-- Gold Gains to Record, Palladium Reaches Nine-Year High on Investor Demand
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2010-10-07T13:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/gold-gains-to-record-silver-extends-advance-on-monetary-easing-concerns.html
Gold futures rose to a record for a
third consecutive day and palladium jumped to a nine-year high,
leading precious metals higher on investor demand for an
alternative asset to slumping currencies.  Steps to revive growth in countries such as the U.S., Japan
and the U.K. will likely erode currency values relative to
alternatives such as gold, Citigroup Inc. said in a report e-
mailed today, raising its gold price forecast. Palladium,
platinum and silver assets in ETF Securities Ltd.’s exchange-
traded products have expanded this month and its gold assets are
about 1 percent below the record high.  “A lot of this is sticky money” in the precious metals
holdings, said  Martyn Whitehead , head of metal sales at Barclays
Capital in London. Palladium, platinum and silver demand may be
getting an added push from speculation of economic growth,
buoying industrial uses for the metals, he said.  Gold for December delivery climbed $8.60, or 0.6 percent,
to $1,356.30 an ounce by 8:43 a.m. on the Comex in New York,
after earlier today rising to a record $1,366. Gold for
immediate delivery jumped to an all-time high of $1,364.77.  Palladium for December delivery jumped as much as 2.8
percent to $606.25 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange,
the highest price for a most-active contract since June 2001.
Platinum for January delivery advanced 0.6 percent to $1,723 an
ounce and silver climbed 1.3 percent to $23.345 an ounce. Silver
earlier today rose to the highest price since Sept. 25, 1980.  Dollar Lower  Attempts by governments to support their economies will
roil the $4 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market for the next
decade, according to UBS AG. The  dollar  traded near a 15-year
low against the yen and dropped to the lowest since February
against the euro.  Citigroup raised its “short and medium” term forecast for
gold to $1,450 an ounce, citing quantitative easing that may
reduce currency values. Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
said yesterday that he’s “sure” that interventions in currency
markets will be discussed at gatherings of the Group of Seven
finance ministers this week in Washington.  Palladium, platinum and silver have dual uses because
investors buy them and manufacturers need them for production.
Palladium and platinum are used in car manufacturing and silver
goes into electrical conductors, solar panels and batteries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claudia Carpenter  in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  