-- India May Buy Less Than Two-Thirds Allotment in State Bank Rights Offer
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2010-12-08T09:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/government-to-raise-stake-in-indian-banks-as-cushion-before-share-sales.html
India may acquire less than two-
thirds of its allocation in  State Bank of India ’s proposed
rights offer, a senior finance ministry official told reporters
in New Delhi.  A final decision on the amount to be invested by the
government will be taken by February, the official said,
declining to be identified before a public announcement.  The nation’s largest lender plans to raise as much as 200
billion rupees ($4.4 billion) from a sale of shares to existing
holders in the year ending March 31, Chairman  Om Prakash Bhatt 
reiterated last week. That would require the government to spend
as much as 120 billion rupees to maintain its  stake  of 59.4
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government may allow overseas investors to buy the
shares by foregoing parts of its rights, said Deven Choksey,
chief executive officer of Mumbai-based K.R. Choksey Shares &
Securities Pvt., which manages about $120 million in assets for
wealthy investors. “We advice investors to stay invested and
also apply for the rights issue.”  Shares  of State Bank fell 2.3 percent to 2,800 rupees,
heading for its lowest closing price in three months, as of 3:16
p.m. in Mumbai.  India’s parliament in August passed a bill that would
permit State Bank to  sell shares  to boost its capital while
allowing the government to reduce its stake to 51 percent, from
a previous requirement of at least 55 percent.  The lender also won’t be allowed to use the funds raised
from the government on its regional banking subsidiaries, the
official said.  Those units include the State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur,
 State Bank of Travancore  and State Bank of Mysore, as well as
the closely held State Bank of Patiala and State Bank of
Hyderabad. State Bank of India holds 75 percent to 100 percent
of those subsidiaries, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anto Antony  in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at  samnagarajan@bloomberg. 