-- Great ‘Gatz’ Has $140 Ticket, All 47,000 Words: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-10-07T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/great-gatz-has-140-ticket-all-47-000-words-jeremy-gerard.html
The setting for the extraordinary
‘Gatz’ is a ratty office, its steel shelving, gray desks and
swivel chairs bathed in a fluorescent pallor.  It’s a far cry from Jay Gatsby’s West Egg mansion
overlooking Long Island Sound.  Over eight hours at the  Public Theater , however, a
memorable event unfolds: A performance of  F. Scott Fitzgerald’s 
1925 novel that begins when a young man picks up a paperback
copy of “The Great Gatsby” and starts reading out loud,
eventually assuming the role of Nick Carraway, the story’s
gimlet-eyed narrator.  The other office denizens soon join in telling the tale of
a mystery man who has everything but the woman he loves. Nick
negotiates life between Gatsby, living on one side of his tiny
cottage, and on the other, Tom Buchanan and his wife, Daisy --
the object of Gatsby’s desire.  Just as inexorably, we too are drawn into the story when
narration and action coalesce into as powerful a piece of
stagecraft as you may ever see. The show includes two
intermissions and a 75-minute dinner break, and the day I saw
it, no one left. We were all transfixed.  Casting Spells  The source of this remarkable work is the  Elevator Repair
Service  and its artistic director, John Collins. The spell-
casting is by Scott Shepherd, who plays Nick with a perfectly
hewn combination of innocence in coming to the story fresh, and
charm when he occasionally shares with us a knowing wink about
the various intrigues that spring up.  Shepherd has committed all 47,000 words of the book to
memory; the only other words spoken from the stage announce the
intermissions. Some of Nick’s extended monologues, when
Fitzgerald stops the action to expound on American culture or
politics, are tossed off with such casual grace we feel removed
from the theater to an intimate conversation.  At those moments, and there are many of them, “Gatz” can
seem more like a brilliant radio play -- the sound design by Ben
Williams casts its own spell -- than a story we’re watching. I
mean that as a compliment: Collins leaves plenty to the
imagination, respecting the images we may have in our own minds
of these familiar characters.  Still, you won’t be disappointed by the swagger in Jim
Fletcher’s Gatsby, the bravado in Gary Wilmes’s Tom, the
determination in Victoria Vazquez’s Daisy or the steel in Susie
Sokol’s Jordan.  Bring a cushion, the seats are hard. Head across the street
to Indochine at the dinner break. Be prepared to stay. You won’t
want to miss a word.  Through Nov. 28 at 425 Lafayette St. Information: +1-212-
967-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org . Rating: ****  ( Jeremy Gerard  is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Jeremy Gerard  in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 