-- Greek Services Paralyzed as Public Workers Strike Over Austerity
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2010-10-07T10:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/greek-strike-against-austerity-plans-disrupts-flights-services.html
Greek government offices were shut
and flights canceled as public workers held a strike to protest
austerity measures three days after additional spending cuts for
2011 were unveiled by the government.  Government services were paralyzed, schools closed and
public hospitals operated with limited staff. Air-traffic
controllers at the country’s biggest airports will walk off the
job today from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m., forcing the cancellation or
rescheduling of dozens of domestic and international flights.  “We are working hard to secure a country with a better
tomorrow, with equal opportunities for all without the nightmare
of unemployment and strikes,” Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
said in a speech in parliament in Athens today. Next year is a
“second critical year” for the Greek state, he said.  State-workers union ADEDY, which represents more than
700,000 civil servants, is striking against wage and pension
cuts it says have sliced 25 percent off incomes. Papandreou’s
government agreed in May to austerity measures worth about 14
percent of gross domestic product over four years in exchange
for 110 billion euros ($152 billion) of emergency loans from the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund.  Wage Cuts  The 2011 draft budget unveiled on Oct. 4 includes 9.2
billion euros of deficit-reduction measures, equivalent to about
4 percent of GDP. They extend cuts in wages and allowances
implemented this year to try to lower the euro-region’s second-
biggest budget deficit. Union members held a protest rally at
midday in central Athens before marching to parliament.  “We have already lost 25 percent from our wallets,” Ilias
Dolgyras, a member of ADEDY’s executive council, said on state-
run NET TV yesterday. “Greek civil servants are the worst paid
in the euro-area countries.”  Greek carrier  Aegean Airlines SA  canceled 15 domestic
flights and rescheduled dozens of international and domestic
flights. Olympic Airways cancelled 27 domestic flights and
rescheduled another 33 domestic and international flights.  ADEDY announced on Oct. 4 that it would not take part in
wage negotiations unless the government restores bonus payments
that were part of the initial cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Stoukas  in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net 
 Natalie Weeks  in Athens 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  