-- Wal-Mart Supplier Li & Fung Says It Sees `a Lot of Orders' for Next Year
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 2010-10-08T04:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/li-fung-says-court-approves-integrated-distribution-purchase.html
Li & Fung Ltd. , the biggest supplier
to retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , said it expects “a
lot of orders” for next year as purchases and sourcing deals
boost its market share.  “With the  acquisitions  we have done, outsourcing deals we
have done and the new business, next year looks very good,”
President  Bruce Rockowitz  said in a phone interview late
yesterday. “It looks less and less likely that there will be a
double-dip recession.”  Li & Fung  yesterday won court approval for the more than
HK$7 billion ($903 million) purchase of Integrated Distribution
Services Group Ltd. that will increase revenue from China and
Southeast Asia. The company has boosted sales in 17 of the last
18 years,  buying  rivals and supplying retailers worldwide with
increasing amounts of Asian-made consumer goods, from Tommy
Hilfiger clothes and Kate Spade bags to furniture and toys.  “The new sourcing deals and acquisitions completed in 2010
will drive earnings higher in 2011,”  Matthew Marsden , a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Samsung Securities Co., said by phone
yesterday. The company wants to “build a higher margin business
selling brands to Asian consumers. This will create a whole new
growth driver.”  Li & Fung , which also supplies  Kohl’s Corp. , Marks &
Spencer Plc and  Inditex SA ’s Zara, has gained 29 percent this
year on the Hong Kong stock exchange, beating the benchmark Hang
Seng Index’s 5.5 percent advance. The stock rose 0.2 percent to
HK$41.60 at 11:47 a.m. today in Hong Kong trading.  Acquisition Fund  The Hong Kong-based company has in the past year announced
 acquisitions  worth more than $2 billion, according to the
company and analyst estimates.  Li & Fung  still has more than $1
billion in its acquisition fund, Rockowitz said yesterday.  A January agreement to supply clothes, toys and other goods
to Wal-Mart may generate an additional $2 billion of annual
sales, he said earlier this year.  Li & Fung  will have “ambitious targets” in a three-year
plan it will announce later, Rockowitz said yesterday, without
giving details. “Our expectation is that China will play an
important part of our business in the next three years.”  The company may also make acquisitions in Japan, Rockowitz
said in an Aug. 13 interview. He is focusing on clothing,
accessories, bags and shoes as he considers possible purchases
in Japan, he said yesterday, declining to be more specific.  The acquisition of Integrated Distribution Services, which
has a China network covering 150 cities and 10,000 outlets, may
add $1.8 billion to sales and $30 million to net income, based
on 2009 figures, Li & Fung said in August.  Rockowitz in July said the company may gain another $1
billion in revenue after the $140 million acquisition of
packaging, fragrance and personal-care company Jackel Group,
jeanswear company HTP Group and Cipriani Accessories Inc. as
well as signing four agreements with companies including the
Sean John brand started by rap artist Sean “Diddy” Combs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  