-- IBM Hits Record as Palmisano Focuses on Software, Services
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-10-07T22:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/ibm-rises-to-highest-closing-price-since-computer-company-s-1915-offering.html
International Business Machines Corp. 
rose to the highest level since it went public in 1915 as
investors show support for Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano ’s strategy of remaking the 99-year-old company.  IBM  gained  88 cents to $138.72 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, topping the previous record of
$137.88, adjusting for stock splits, reached in July 1999.
Palmisano has focused on services and software, making the
company once known for mainframe computers into the world’s
biggest computer-services provider.  Since Palmisano became CEO in March 2002, IBM shares have
risen a third as he divested hardware units, including the
personal-computer business sold to China’s  Lenovo Group Ltd.  in
2005. In May, he said he expects Armonk, New York-based IBM to
almost double operating  earnings  to $20 a share by 2015, as he
continues to focus on more profitable software and services.  The shares are also benefiting as investors predict
corporate customers will invest in information technology, said
 Lou Miscioscia , an analyst at Collins Stewart Plc.  “There was a big concern investors had about IT succumbing
to the macro slowing -- that was overblown,” said Boston-based
Miscioscia, who has a “buy” rating on the shares and has the
highest price target of any analyst tracked by Bloomberg, at
$160. “Companies continue to want to invest.”  IBM has also boosted shares by buying its own stock. Since
2002, the company has spent more than $68 billion on buybacks,
equal to almost 39 percent of its current market value.  Help From HP  Of the 26 analysts who rate IBM, 18  recommend buying ,
including nine who predict the stock will reach at least $150.
Eight analysts recommend holding the shares and none recommend
selling them.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average , which includes IBM, lost
19.07 points today to 10,948.58.  IBM shares are also likely gaining as investors leave its
closest rival,  Hewlett-Packard Co. , amid uncertainty at the
company, Miscioscia said. HP’s CEO  Mark Hurd  retired Aug. 6
after an investigation found he violated business-conduct
standards. Last week, HP hired  Leo Apotheker , former CEO of
software maker SAP AG, to replace him.  “Given that the new CEO at HP has to prove himself, that
does create more of a cloud of uncertainty,” Miscioscia said.
HP shares have dropped 12 percent since the announcement of
Hurd’s departure.  The company that became IBM was incorporated on June 16,
1911, as Computer Tabulating Recording Co. Created by a merger
of three businesses, CTR sold items ranging from punched cards
to cheese slicers, according to the company’s website.  Watson, Gerstner  Thomas J. Watson Sr. , known as IBM’s founder, joined the
company in 1914. He became president less than a year later, and
began focusing on building large tabulating machines for
businesses. In 1924, after expanding the company outside the
U.S. and building other corporate machines, he changed the name
to International Business Machines Corp.  By 1993, the company had posted three straight years of
losses, including $8.1 billion that year. The company faced a
possible breakup when IBM chose  Lou Gerstner  as its chief that
year -- the first time IBM went outside the company for a CEO.  He helped increase the share price about ninefold by
cutting thousands of jobs, keeping the company’s units together
and marketing software and services along with hardware.
Gerstner wrote a book about his experience called “Who Says
Elephants Can’t Dance?”  IBM Investments  Palmisano continued the transition of what was once the
world’s largest computer maker. The focus on software and
services has helped expand IBM’s gross-profit  margins  more than
8.5 percentage points since he took over. He’s spent more than
$20 billion on over 100 purchases.  In May, Palmisano said he plans to spend another $20
billion in  acquisitions  through 2015. Last month, IBM announced
three acquisitions, including the $1.7 billion deal for storage-
analytics maker  Netezza Corp.  and a purchase of software maker
OpenPages Inc. for an undisclosed sum.  IBM is investing in markets such as analytics software,
which helps companies predict trends, and cloud computing, which
lets them store and access information on shared servers. The
company is also developing services to monitor highways,
electrical grids and other infrastructure systems to help them
run more efficiently.  Increased sales of those technologies, along with growth in
markets such as Brazil and China, will add $20 billion to
revenue by 2015, IBM has said. The software segment, the
company’s most profitable, will make up about half of total
profit by then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  