-- Iceland Banks May Be Asked to Forgive $2 Billion After Protests
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-10-08T13:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/iceland-s-banks-may-be-asked-to-forgive-2-billion-in-debt-after-protests.html
Iceland’s banks may come under
pressure to forgive about $2 billion in mortgage debt after
protests this week prompted the government to consider proposals
from the island’s homeowner protection group.  “The debt the banks have to write off could very well be
very challenging for them,” said Economy Minister  Arni Pall Arnason , in an interview in Reykjavik. “So be it. The banks
have to acknowledge quickly that current debt levels are
unrealistic and that timely write-offs are necessary. Full
stop.”  The government is eager to show voters it is committed to
reducing families’ debt burdens after the Oct. 4 unrest. The
protests drew bigger crowds than in the weeks before former
Prime Minister  Geir H. Haarde ’s administration was ousted in
January 2009. The Interest Group of the Homes, which represents
households demanding debt relief, says banks should write off
about 200 billion kronur ($1.8 billion) in mortgage loans to
help the 39 percent of homeowners who are technically insolvent.  Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir  held emergency talks
after the protests, in which about 8,000 demonstrators gathered
to express their anger over rising homeowner insolvencies.
Sigurdardottir said her government isn’t ruling anything out.  “It’s clear we’ll have to negotiate with the banks and
pension funds if anything of this sort is to be carried out,”
she told reporters on Oct. 5. “We now need a meeting with the
banks and pension funds.”  Government Action  Sigurdardottir told lawmakers yesterday that no families
should lose their homes because of unserviceable debt, adding
that her government will contact about 200 households at risk of
foreclosure this month to try to prevent their homes being
auctioned off.  To help families, the government will extend by five months
a moratorium on foreclosures that had been due to expire this
month, Sigurdardottir said today. Iceland in August told the
International Monetary Fund, which is leading a $4.6 billion
loan to the island, it would “remove temporary post-crisis
measures -- like the moratorium on home foreclosures -- the
continuance of which represent a barrier to debtor
participation,” according to the loan agreement.  The IMF won’t be “allowed” to hinder the government in
its efforts to reduce household debt burdens, Sigurdardottir
said at a press conference today.  Kaupthing, Glitnir  The country’s banks are state-controlled successors to the
failed lenders that brought down the economy two years ago. The
resolution committees of  Kaupthing Bank hf  and  Glitnir Bank hf 
agreed on behalf of creditors to take stakes in the new lenders,
Arion hf and Islandsbanki hf, to cover part of their claims.
Creditors of Kaupthing, Glitnir and  Landsbanki Islands hf  are
owed as much as $86 billion in total.  A write down of about $2 billion is equivalent to some 8
percent of total assets at Iceland’s three biggest banks, their
2009 balance sheets show.  Banks should allow homeowners to revert to pre-crisis debt
burdens, according to Fridrik O. Fridriksson, chairman of the
Interest Group of the Homes, in an interview. That would remove
the impact of consumer price gains, which has swelled the
inflation-linked debt that the island’s mortgages are based on.  The  consumer price index  soared 41 percent from January
2007 through September this year, according to Statistics
Iceland.  Real wages  fell 10.1 percent from the beginning of 2007
through August this year, the last period for which data are
available, according to the office. Real disposable incomes
slumped 20.3 percent last year, the  central bank  estimates.  ‘Full Priority’  After the Oct. 4 protests, Arion, formerly Kaupthing,
published a statement to say “considerable progress has been
reached within the bank in sorting out matters for individuals
and companies. Certainly it would be better if the results were
even greater, but the matters in question are complex and time
consuming, which calls for careful consideration.”  Finance Minister  Steingrimur J. Sigfusson  told reporters on
Oct. 5 the banks had been too slow in helping households
restructure debt, adding debt reduction needs to become a “full
priority” for the banks.  “The primary focus of the economic policy in the coming
months will be to ensure swift progress in debt restructuring;
we will work with the banks to speed up the process,” Arnason
said. “I expect an agreement with the banks on practical
parameters in the coming weeks and that we can see tangible
results within a few months.”  The write-offs are unlikely to leave the banks insolvent,
according to the  Financial Supervisory Authority . The regulator
says it may lower capital adequacy requirements after assessing
the individual lenders’ asset quality.  “Whether or not the capital adequacy ratios are altered is
a decision to be taken by the FSA,” its Director  Gunnar Andersen  said in an interview. “We know exactly what kind of
room the banks have to maneuver and they can’t wipe assets of
their balance sheets if it takes them below the 16 percent
capital adequacy threshold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  