-- Michaels Plans Debt as Junk Spreads at Narrowest Since May: New Bond Alert
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-07T09:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/michaels-plans-debt-as-junk-spreads-narrow-new-issue-alert.html
Michaels Stores Inc. , the arts-and-
crafts retailer owned by Bain Capital LLC and Blackstone Group
LP, is marketing debt as the premium investors demand to own
junk bonds instead of Treasuries drops to the least since May.  Michaels plans to sell $750 million of senior unsecured
notes due October 2018 to finance the repurchase of securities
maturing in November 2014, the Irving, Texas-based company said
yesterday in a statement distributed by Marketwire.  Spreads on high-yield, high-risk bonds narrowed yesterday
to 615 basis points, the lowest since May 13, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data. The measure has compressed
as the U.S., Europe, China and Japan report better-than-expected
economic data, concern about Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
recedes and investors seek yield in junk, said  Sean Slein , a
money manager at Dwight Asset Management in Baltimore.  “All those things together have certainly helped drive
spreads to their tightest levels since May,” said Slein, who
helps oversee about $800 million of high-yield debt. “I would
expect spreads to continue to grind tighter through the first
half of 2011.”  High-yield spreads are down 112 basis points from the
year’s peak of 727 basis points on June 11, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s US High Yield Master II index. Yields on
the debt fell 6 basis points to 7.9 percent.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Reynolds Sale  Reynolds Group Holdings Ltd., the packaging company owned
by New Zealand billionaire  Graeme Hart , led $8.88 billion of
corporate bond sales yesterday, issuing $3 billion of notes in
the second-biggest junk offering this year.  Reynolds sold $1.5 billion each of secured and unsecured
notes maturing in April 2019, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That trails an offering by Frontier Communications
Corp., which sold $3.2 billion of notes on March 26, Bloomberg
data show. High-yield offerings yesterday totaled $4.23 billion.  Michaels, based in Irving, Texas, initially sold $750
million of 10 percent, 8-year notes in October 2006 through a
private offering, which it exchanged a year later for freely
tradable securities.  The Michaels 10 percent notes due in November 2014 are the
company’s debt that matures the soonest. They can be called, or
redeemed, for the first time next month at 105 cents on the
dollar, Bloomberg data show.  Record-Low Yields  Spreads on investment-grade corporate bonds fell 1 basis
point to 182 basis points, while yields on the debt were down 6
basis points to 3.586 percent, the least in daily data going
back to Oct. 31, 1986, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Corporate Master Index.  Corporate bond sales of $15.7 billion this week compare
with $23.1 billion in the similar period a week earlier,
Bloomberg data show.  The following is a description of at least $7.48 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  VOTORANTIM CIMENTOS SA plans to sell perpetual bonds in
dollars, which are callable after five years, years, according
to a banker involved in the transaction. Bank of America Corp.,
HSBC Holdings Plc, Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Morgan Stanley
are managing the issue, which will be guaranteed by Votorantim
Participacoes SA and Votorantim Industrial SA, the banker said.
Moody’s rates the bonds Baa3.  ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK plans to sell sukuk in dollars,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. CIMB
Holdings Bhd., Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc are managing the issue, the people said.  RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD. , India’s biggest company by market
value, approached banks to help it raise at least $1 billion
from a bond sale, according to three people with direct
knowledge of the matter. The petrochemicals and textile company,
whose chairman is billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , may use the money
for acquisitions, one of the people said, asking not to be
identified as the matter is private.  QATAR TELECOM QSC plans to sell $1.5 billion of senior
unsecured U.S. dollar debt, a person familiar with the plan
said. A $1 billion portion of 10.5-year debt may yield 245 basis
points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, and $500
million of 6-year bonds may pay a spread of 235 basis points,
the person said. The company is rated A2 at Moody’s, A at S&P
and A+ at Fitch.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The debt is likely to be for five years and is meant to
“fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance sheet,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone interview from
Doha. The bank will sell the bonds in dollars and the local
riyal currency, the CEO said in a July 25 interview.  Not Rated  SM INVESTMENTS CORP., the holding company of Philippine
billionaire Henry Sy, plans to sell $400 million of 5.5 percent
2017 bonds in a combined swap and sale. The company will issue
$213.7 million 2017 bonds in exchange for $196.6 million 2013
and 2014 debt, SM said in an e-mailed statement. It will also
sell $186.3 million of 2017 bonds for cash. The settlement date
is Oct. 13, the company said.  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  High Yield  AIR MEDICAL GROUP HOLDINGS INC., the provider of emergency
transportation services in the Southern and Midwestern parts of
the U.S., plans to sell $545 million of eight-year notes to pay
for its acquisition by Bain Capital LLC, according to a person
familiar with the offering, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  MICHAELS STORES INC., the arts-and-crafts retailer bought
by Bain Capital and Blackstone Group LP in 2006, plans to sell
$750 million of senior unsecured notes due October 2018 to buy
back securities maturing in November 2014, the Irving, Texas-
based company said in a statement distributed by Marketwire.  TUTOR PERINI CORP. plans to sell up to $300 million of
senior unsecured notes, the construction company said in an Oct.
6 statement distributed by Business Wire. Proceeds may be used
for acquisitions and stock repurchases, according to the
statement.  ALTA MESA HOLDINGS LP, a Houston-based oil and natural gas
company, plans to sell $300 million of senior notes due 2018,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The notes
may yield 9.5 percent to 9.75 percent, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Proceeds may
be used to repay a second-lien term loan, reduce borrowings
under a revolving credit line, make a distribution to Alta Mesa
Investment Holdings Inc. and for general corporate purposes, the
person said. Moody’s rated the debt B3.  EVRAZ INC. NA CANADA plans to sell $650 million of seven-
year bonds that are callable after four years, according to two
people with knowledge of the sale. Barclays Capital and Credit
Suisse Group AG are managing the issue, which will help
refinance existing debt of the parent, Evraz Group SA. Moody’s
assigned the notes a grade of B1 and S&P ranked them B, one step
lower.  BRICKMAN GROUP HOLDINGS INC. may sell $300 million of
eight-year notes, according to a person familiar with the
offering, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set.  OSO SEVERSTAL , Russia’s largest steelmaker, plans to meet
investors in Europe, Asia and the U.S. to discuss a sale of
dollar bonds, according to a banker with knowledge of the road
show. The company offered to buy back $450 million of bonds on
Sept. 30., more than a third of its 9.75 percent notes due in
2013, aiming to refinance the amount with less expensive debt.  CLEARWATER PAPER CORP. plans to sell $350 million of senior
unsecured notes, the Spokane, Washington-based company said in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The maker of
consumer tissue, bleached paperboard and wood products plans to
use proceeds, along with $210 million of cash on hand to finance
its purchase of Cellu Tissue Holdings Inc., the filing said.  YASAR HOLDING AS, a Turkish company that makes dairy and
meat products, paint and paper, plans to sell five-year notes
denominated in U.S. dollars, said a person familiar with the
matter. Barclays Plc is managing the sale, which will be used to
fund a senior loan to Yasar from Barclays Bank Plc, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the details are
private.  E-LAND FASHION CHINA HOLDINGS LTD, the Hong Kong-based
apparel products provider, hired Morgan Stanley to help it sell
$200 million of three-year bonds, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Moody’s Investors Service ranked the proposed
notes at Ba2, citing growing personal consumption in China, E-
Land Fashion’s moderate scale and significant business
volatility. Proceeds will be used mainly for capital
expenditures and general corporate purposes, Moody’s said in the
report.  Offerings in Pipeline  CENTRAL CHINA REAL ESTATE LTD., part-owned by Singapore’s
CapitaLand Ltd., plans to sell bonds denominated in U.S. dollars
to fund property projects, according to a statement to the Hong
Kong stock exchange. Deutsche Bank AG, Nomura Holdings Inc. and
ING Groep NV will manage the sale and help arrange meetings with
investors, according to the statement.  ICICI BANK LTD., India’s second-largest lender, hired
Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to sell as
much as $1 billion of bonds with maturities between five and 10
years, according to three people familiar with the offering.
India’s second-biggest lender is rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by S&P.  IRVING PLACE CAPITAL may issue $250 million of senior
secured notes to help pay for its leveraged buyout of Thermadyne
Holdings Corp. and refinance the company’s debt, Thermadyne
Chief Financial Officer Steven Schumm said in an Oct. 5
interview. The company will also arrange a $60 million asset-
based revolving credit line. Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal Bank
of Canada will manage the sale of six-year bonds, Schumm said.  KOREA NATIONAL OIL CORP. hired Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas
SA, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Korea
Development Bank for a sale of dollar bonds, a person familiar
with the deal said on Oct. 6. The company known as KNOC said in
September it plans to raise between $500 million and $1 billion
to fund acquisitions. KNOC is rated A1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and A by Standard & Poor’s.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC.  is planning its first
debt offering since its bailout two years ago as the insurer
moves toward independence from the U.S. government, Chairman
Steve Miller said Sept. 29.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS , a Turkish bank, applied to Turkey’s
capital markets regulator to sell dollar-denominated bonds
abroad, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock Exchange.  BANCO DE CREDITO E INVERSIONES , Chile’s fourth-largest
lender by assets, postponed the sale of five-year notes in U.S.
dollars, according to a person familiar with the offering.  The company had planned to sell the notes as soon as Sept.
24, said the person, who declined to be identified because the
marketing was private.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said. The money would go to fund expansion  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. , the insurer that’s
majority owned by the U.S., may sell bonds to help repay its
government bailout, it said in an Aug. 9 registration statement
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 