-- Micron Has First Annual Profit in Four Years on Higher Sales
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-10-07T21:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/micron-has-first-annual-profit-in-four-years-on-higher-sales.html
Micron Technology Inc. , the largest
U.S. maker of computer-memory chips, reported a quarterly net
income of $342 million, rounding out its first annual profit in
four years.  Fiscal fourth-quarter  net income  was 32 cents a share,
after a loss of $100 million, or 12 cents, a year earlier,
Boise, Idaho-based Micron said today in a statement. Sales in
the period ended Sept. 2 almost doubled to $2.49 billion.
Analysts had estimated a profit of 38 cents on sales of $2.7
billion, the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Micron  returned to profit following a three-year glut of
memory chips, which are used in personal computers. While a
rebound in the PC industry may be slowing, the lack of new
factories is keeping supply in check, said  Kevin Vassily , an
analyst at Portland, Oregon-based Pacific Crest Securities.  “Despite what you’re seeing in the PC market, these guys
are going to stay firmly in the black,” said Vassily, who has
an “outperform”  rating  on the stock and said he doesn’t own
Micron shares. “There just hasn’t been, for them and the
industry, significant capacity investments going on.”  Micron rose 16 cents to $7.11 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have  fallen  33 percent this
year.  Memory Chips  Micron  makes dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips
that provide the main memory in PCs. The company also makes Nand
flash memory chips, used in digital cameras and portable devices
like Apple Inc.’s iPad and iPhone.  DRAM sales fell 14 percent in the quarter from the
preceding three months as shipments dropped 12 percent and
prices decreased, the company said. Sales of Nand flash memory
slipped 9 percent. Gross margin, or the portion of sales
remaining after deducting costs of production, was 37 percent,
Micron said.  The company goes head-to-head with South Korea’s  Samsung
Electronics Co. , the world’s second-largest chipmaker behind
Intel Corp. Earlier today, Samsung reported third-quarter
operating income that trailed analysts’ estimates.  Micron reported an  annual profit  in four of the past 10
years. The memory industry has unpredictable demand swings,
making it hard to adjust production levels quickly enough.  The company experienced a “softening” of demand from PC
makers at the end of the past quarter as their consumer sales
weakened and tablet computers grabbed revenue, Chief Executive
Officer Steve Appleton said on a conference call with analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  