-- Ignatieff's Corporate Tax Pledge May Hurt Canada Investment, Myers Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-07T19:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/ignatieff-s-corporate-tax-pledge-may-hurt-canada-investment-myers-says.html
Canadian  business investment  needed
to sustain an economic  recovery  is threatened by Liberal Party
Leader  Michael Ignatieff ’s pledge to scrap planned corporate tax
cuts because companies may find it difficult to plan, the head
of the country’s manufacturing lobby group said.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s Conservative Party
government has scheduled a 1.5 percentage point reduction in the
corporate tax rate on Jan. 1 to 16.5 percent, and a further cut
to 15 percent in 2012. Ignatieff said Oct. 5 he would cancel the
reduction and spend C$1 billion ($986 million) to support people
who care for sick and aged family members at home.  “Right now, frankly, I don’t think we can afford the
political uncertainty that’s even being caused by this debate,”
 Jayson Myers , president of Canadian Manufacturers & Exporters,
said in an interview today at Bloomberg’s Ottawa office. “We
are in a pretty tight situation financially in the business
sector.”  Ignatieff’s Liberals, along with two other opposition
parties, have a majority of seats in the House of Commons. The
opposition could force an election by rejecting the next budget,
often presented in February or March.  “I see this as a credibility issue above all,” Myers
said. “I don’t think we can afford the uncertainty right now if
you want companies to make big investments in Canada.”  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  forecasts an investment
rebound will sustain a recovery next year as the government ends
stimulus spending. The economy won’t be helped much by tax cuts
funded with deficits or by the government’s plan to raise
payroll taxes, said  Scott Brison , the Liberal Party’s spokesman
for finance issues.  Not Good Policy  “We will cut corporate taxes again, but not until we get
out of deficit,” Brison said in an interview. “It isn’t good
economic policy to cut corporate taxes on borrowed money.”  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  reiterated Oct. 4 the
government will balance the budget by 2015.  Manufacturers such as  Canfor Corp . were among the  hardest
hit  in a recession that ended last year as U.S. demand for
automobiles and lumber plunged. Some companies are still having
trouble getting loans and finding a “pipeline of orders,”
Myers said.  “Exporters are extremely vulnerable still to what’s going
on in the U.S., Europe,” Myers said. “It makes companies
extremely cautious about investing or ramping up production.”  Shrinking Workforce  Manufacturers have fired 21 percent of their  workforce  in
the last five years, according to Statistics Canada figures.
Factory sales fell 28 percent to C$38.5 billion in May 2009 from
a peak of C$53.3 billion in July 2008, and have not yet recouped
half of that loss.  Myers heads a group with about 3,000 members that was
founded in 1871, and is a member of panels that advise the
country’s trade, industry and border services ministers. A
former chief economist, he was promoted to president of the
Canadian Manufacturers & Exporters in July 2007.  The government should go beyond a low corporate tax rate to
boost investment with measures such as extending accelerated
capital cost allowances, and making tax credits for research and
worker training refundable, Myers said in the interview.  Canadian companies are falling further behind U.S.
companies in spending on new equipment for their workers, the
C.D. Howe Institute, a nonpartisan research group, said in a
 report  today. Canadian spending was 79 cents for every dollar
spent by U.S. companies in 2008, down from 83 cents in 1993, the
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 