-- Illinois Attorney General Madigan Files Suit Against Enbridge Over Spill
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r   a n d   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-07T20:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/illinois-attorney-general-madigan-files-suit-against-enbridge-over-spill.html
Illinois Attorney General  Lisa Madigan  has filed suit against  Enbridge Energy Partners LP  over
the company’s Sept. 9 oil leak in Romeoville, Illinois.  Madigan and Will County prosecutor James Glasgow filed the
eight-count complaint today at the Illinois courthouse in
Joliet, southwest of Chicago, seeking the imposition of fines
and financial responsibility for the cleanup.  “Enbridge must be held accountable for all of the
environmental and public health impacts of this oil spill,”
Madigan said in a statement announcing the lawsuit.  The case was filed more than three weeks after the Sept. 9
rupture of its pipeline spilled about 6,100 barrels of oil in
Romeoville, 30 miles (48 kilometers) southwest of Chicago. The
34-inch line runs from Superior, Wisconsin, to Griffith,
Indiana, according to Enbridge’s website.  Enbridge restarted Line 6A on Sept. 17. The company
accounts for about 11 percent of U.S. crude imports, according
to its website, and the line that ruptured can carry 670,000
barrels of oil a day, equal to more than one-third of Midwest
imports.  Gasoline in the Chicago spot market rose as much as 10
percent after the Sept. 9 closure on speculation that refiners
would have to cut output, leading to tighter supply.  Enbridge has completed “nearly all” of the action items
required by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,  Gina Jordan , an Enbridge spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.
Madigan is “simply protecting the state’s interests” to ensure
that the company will follow through on cleanup, she said.  Provisional Order  The court has entered a provisional order directing
Enbridge to survey all private wells within a half mile of the
rupture within seven days and, within 15 days, identify all
water mains, storm sewers and sanitary sewers that may have been
affected by the spill, the state’s attorneys said.  Madigan and Glasgow’s complaint seeks a court-ordered
penalty of $50,000 for each infraction plus $10,000 per day for
each day the leak existed. The lawsuit accuses the company of
creating a “substantial danger to the public health and
welfare,” violating water-quality standards, creating a water
pollution hazard and other breaches of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act.  The case is People of the State of Illinois v. Enbridge
Energy LP, 10CH06266, in the Will County, Illinois, Circuit
Court, Chancery Division (Joliet).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  