-- Limited, Abercrombie Lead September Retail Sales Gains
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-10-07T20:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/limited-abercrombie-lead-september-sales-gains-at-u-s-stores.html
Sales at U.S. retailers grew for a
13th straight month in September, beating analysts’ estimates as
consumers facing a sluggish economy snapped up discounts at teen
apparel chains during the back-to-school shopping season.  Sales at  Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  stores open at least a
year rose 13 percent, beating the 3.6 percent average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Retail Metrics Inc. American
Eagle Outfitters Inc. posted a rise of 4 percent compared with
projections for a 0.1 percent decline. Limited Brands Inc. also
surpassed estimates.  Retail sales rebounded in the past year as the U.S. emerged
from the recession. So-called same-store sales grew 2.7 percent,
surpassing a 2.3 percent aggregate of analysts’ estimates for 30
chains, Retail Metrics said. With the highest unemployment in 30
years weighing on consumer confidence, stores used promotions to
move the merchandise.  “An upside surprise bodes well for the holiday season,”
said  Ken Perkins , president of Retail Metrics, based in
Swampscott, Massachusetts. “Back-to-school has a pretty strong
correlation to holiday.”  Abercrombie, based in New Albany, Ohio, surged $3.44, or
8.9 percent, to $42.03 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading . American Eagle, with headquarters in
Pittsburgh, rose $1.22, or 8.1 percent, to $16.23. Columbus,
Ohio-based Limited rose $1.05, or 3.8 percent, to $28.64.  The figures reported by the companies are same-store sales,
a key indicator of a retailer’s growth because they exclude
results from new and closed locations.  Gap Falls  Some retailers fell on concerns that discounting would be
prevalent throughout the rest of the year.  Gap Inc. , based in
San Francisco, declined after sales unexpectedly dropped 2
percent, below estimates for an increase of 0.2 percent. Revenue
from Gap’s Old Navy brand sank 5 percent after a gain of 13
percent a year ago.  The sales decline will put pressure on Gap to discount in
October to clear out inventory, Mark Webb, vice president of
investor relations, said in a recorded statement.  Retailers faced a tough comparison last month, Retail
Metrics said. After a year of declines during the recession, the
industry posted its first gain last September, a 1.1 percent
rise. Retail sales jumped 8.7 percent in March and slowed to an
average 2.5 percent in the next five months, the firm said.  The first two weeks of September drove much of the growth
in the month as shoppers waited longer to do their back-to-
school shopping to take advantage of discounts,  Brian Sozzi , an
analyst for Wall Street Strategies in New York, wrote in a note
to clients.  Heat Wave  Sales in the second half of the month may have been curbed
by weather as retailers in the western U.S. tried to sell items
for colder temperatures to consumers facing heat waves, Sozzi
said. Late last month, the temperature reached 113 degrees
Fahrenheit in Los Angeles and tropical storm Nicole brought
heavy rains to the East Coast.  Purveyors of teen apparel were expected to lag behind other
retailers, said Retail Metrics, with analysts it surveys
projecting a sales drop of 1.4 percent. Instead, the group’s
sales rose 3.7 percent as New York-based Aeropostale Inc. joined
its peers in beating estimates with a gain of 3 percent,
compared with a projected fall of 2.3 percent.  “They blew it out, it’s really surprising,” Perkins said
of the teen retailers. High levels of discounting drew sales
away from discount chains such as Target Corp., which missed
estimates, he said. “The promotional aspect of this is really
driving it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  