-- U.S. Stocks Decline as Shares of Commodity Producers Retreat
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-10-07T20:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/index-futures-fluctuate-alcoa-gains-before-earnings-report-immucor-sinks.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a second day, as mining
and energy companies fell after commodity prices erased gains
and PepsiCo Inc. led consumer-staples shares lower.  Chevron Corp. and Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. paced
losses in commodity producers as a rebound in the  dollar  drove
down oil and metals prices. PepsiCo dropped 3 percent after
lowering the top end of its annual profit forecast. Marriott
International Inc. slumped 5.8 percent, the biggest decline in
the S&P 500, after the largest U.S. hotel chain missed earnings
projections.  The  S&P 500  dropped 0.2 percent to 1,158.06 at 4 p.m. in
New York. The index has fallen two straight days after closing
at the highest level since May. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
lost 19.07 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,948.58. The Dollar
Index, which gauges the currency against six major peers, rose
0.1 percent to rebound from its lowest level since January.  “The market is vulnerable,” said  Alan Gayle , senior
investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in
Richmond, Virginia, which oversees $63 billion. “The jobless
claims figures were good but those figures are far from showing
that companies are starting to hire. Commodities prices reversed
earlier gains and that’s taking the market lower. Investors will
need to get more data, like the jobs report tomorrow and
companies’ guidance, to get the rally going.”  The S&P 500 had declined as much as 16 percent from this
year’s high in April on concern that American unemployment and
widening budget deficits in Europe will derail global growth.
The gauge rose 13 percent since July 2 after the drop pushed the
index’s valuation to about 12.2 times estimated profits for the
next year, near the lowest since March 2009.  Jobless Claims  Equity futures gained in early trading after a Labor
Department report showed initial jobless claims dropped by
11,000 to 445,000 in the week ended Oct. 2, the fewest since
July 10. Economists projected 455,000 new claims last week,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The
total number of people receiving unemployment insurance
decreased and those getting extended payments jumped.  The drop in jobless claims came a day before another
government report forecast to show the unemployment rate climbed
to 9.7 percent in September from 9.6 percent. The data may
influence the Federal Reserve’s decision about undertaking
another round of debt purchases, a tactic known as quantitative
easing, to bolster the economic recovery. Stocks and bonds have
rallied, while the dollar has fallen, amid speculation the
central bank will pursue more quantitative easing.  ‘Differing Opinions’  “Today’s reaction so far has been confusion or differing
opinions over the currency moves,” said  Timothy Ghriskey , chief
investment officer at Solaris Asset Management in Bedford Hills,
New York, which manages $2 billion. “There isn’t a united
consensus over what a weaker dollar means or what a stronger
dollar means.”  Gauges of energy and raw-materials producers fell more than
0.3 percent. Commodities prices reversed gains as the Dollar
Index erased a decline of as much as 0.6 percent. Chevron
declined 0.4 percent to $83.52, while Freeport-McMoRan slumped
2.4 percent to $91.40.  Crude oil for November delivery fell 1.9 percent to $81.67
a barrel, after reaching a five-month high earlier today. Gold
futures fell from a record, while copper prices retreated from
the highest price in almost 27 months.  Euro Fluctuations  The euro retreated, after earlier appreciating to $1.40 for
the first time since February, as European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said exchange rates should reflect
economic fundamentals. Trichet said at a press conference in
Frankfurt that rates are “appropriate” and the recovery
“should proceed at a moderate pace.” He also said he supports
a “strong dollar” and opposes “disorderly” shifts in global
exchange rates.  The Dollar Index has dropped 4.1 percent since Aug. 10,
when the Fed said after its policy meeting it would keep its
bond holdings level by resuming the purchase of U.S. debt to
support a recovery it described as “more modest” than earlier
anticipated. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Oct. 4 the
central bank’s first round of large-scale asset purchases aided
the economy and that further buying is likely to help more.  Producers of consumer staples declined 0.5 percent, led by
PepsiCo, which fell 3 percent to $66.10. The world’s largest
snack-food producer said its full-year per-share earnings will
rise as much as 11 percent, less than a prior forecast of up to
12 percent. The company reported third-quarter per-share
earnings of $1.22, matching the average earnings estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Missing Forecasts  Marriott slumped 5.8 percent to $35.67 for the biggest
decline in the S&P 500. The largest U.S. hotel chain reported
third-quarter profit of 22 cents a share, trailing the average
analyst estimate by 1 cent. Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. slid 3 percent to $53.90.  Adobe Systems Inc. jumped 12 percent to $28.69. Microsoft
Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  discussed buying
Adobe with its CEO,  Shantanu Narayen , the New York Times
reported. Microsoft is the world’s biggest software maker, and
Adobe makes design programs.  BMC Software Inc. climbed 6.7 percent to $42.32. The maker
of programs that manage mainframes and computer networks may be
considering a sale of the company, the DealReporter said, citing
three industry bankers and an executive familiar with the
situation.  Alcoa’s Report  Alcoa Inc. declined 1.4 percent to $12.20 after rising as
much as 1.6 percent. The largest U.S. aluminum producer reported
quarterly results after the close of trading, becoming the first
Dow company to do so. It posted profit of 9 cents a share
excluding some items, topping the average analyst estimate of 5
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Third-quarter earnings at S&P 500 companies are expected to
grow 23 percent from a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Analysts surveyed see a 35 percent advance in earnings
this year compared with 2009.  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. jumped 8.9 percent to $42.03. The
teen clothing retailer said September same-store sales rose 13
percent, compared with a Retail Metrics estimate of a 3.6
percent advance.  “We got some pretty good numbers from retailers,” said
 Philip Orlando , the New York-based chief equity market
strategist at Federated Investors Inc., which manages about $350
billion. “That tells me that both GDP and corporate earnings
will be strong. I see the S&P 500 rallying 10 percent or so
between now and the end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 