-- Indian Equities Set for Annual Returns of 20% in 5 Years, HDFC's Jain Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-10-07T03:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/indian-equities-set-for-annual-returns-of-20-in-5-years-hdfc-s-jain-says.html
Indian equities may return as much as
20 percent annually over the next three to five years, according
to  Prashant Jain , chief investment officer at HDFC Asset
Management Co., the nation’s second-biggest money manager.  “Returns should be in line with earnings growth,” Jain,
who oversees six of the 15 best-performing Indian funds during
the past decade, said in Mumbai yesterday. Earnings growth of 15
percent to 20 percent “from a diversified portfolio of equities
is not very difficult to achieve,” he said.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark  Sensitive Index  has
rallied for a record seven straight quarters. The gauge has
surged 18 percent this year as overseas investors bought a
record $21 billion of Indian equities on the expectation surging
consumer demand will boost corporate  earnings  even as global
growth slows.  The  Sensex  has gained 28 percent from a May 25 low,
approaching its record closing high of 20,873.33 on Jan. 8, 2008.
Foreign fund inflows have surged 59 percent this year, according
to data from the Securities and Exchange Board of India compiled
by Bloomberg. Gross domestic product expanded 8.8 percent in the
June quarter from a year earlier, the most among major economies
in Asia after China.  “India is clearly emerging as a key asset globally,” said
Jain, who manages $21 billion in assets. “How many economies
are there in the world which are of our size, growing at 8 to 9
percent, where neither the companies nor the households are
leveraged?”  Most Expensive  The gains have made India the most expensive among the
world’s 20 largest stock markets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Stocks on the Sensex are valued at  19.5 times 
earnings, compared with 13.7 times for Brazil’s  Bovespa Index ,
7.8 times for Russia’s  Micex Index  and 15.1 times for China’s
 Shanghai Composite Index , among the so-called BRIC markets.  “The markets are close to being fairly valued,” Jain said
yesterday. “In three years, the economy has grown and many
companies have grown meaningfully. I don’t think it’s
overvalued.”  India stocks  aren’t in “bubble” territory even with the
Sensex approaching its all-time high, BNP Paribas analysts led
by  Manishi Raychaudhuri  wrote in a report yesterday. The Sensex
is valued at 18 times the estimated earnings over a one-year
period, compared with a multiple of 25 times at its previous
peak, BNP said. Unlike a typical “bubble” where most
industries and stocks climb by similar degrees, the rally this
time has been “extremely uneven,” the analysts said.  Jhunjhunwala  Bullish  Jain is joined by Billionaire investor  Rakesh Jhunjhunwala 
and  Sunil Singhania , head of equities at Reliance Capital Asset
Management Ltd., India’s biggest money manager, with $23 billion
in assets, in predicting further gains for Indian stocks.  Jhunjhunwala  told an investor conference in Mumbai on Sept.
27 he’s “cautious” on the Indian market in the short term,
though he still expects a “multiyear” rally.  “The Indian economy is going to quadruple in the next 10
to 12 years,” Singhania said on Sept. 29. “In the near term,
we are not cheap, but if someone is investing for the long term
he need not worry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  