-- Indiana Fund Manager Who Crashed Plane to Elude Probe Set for Sentencing
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-07T19:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/indiana-fund-manager-who-crashed-plane-to-elude-probe-set-for-sentencing.html
Indiana ex-fund manager  Marcus Schrenker,  who tried to fake his death and elude investigating
authorities by crashing his own plane, faces a 10-year state
sentence for securities fraud.  Indiana Superior Court Judge Steven R. Nation is scheduled
to impose the punishment today at a hearing in the Indianapolis
suburb of Noblesville. Schrenker, 39, agreed in August to plead
guilty to five felony counts of selling fraudulent securities
and to pay more than $610,000 in restitution. He also made a
deal with prosecutors on his sentence.  The president of Heritage Wealth Management in
Indianapolis, Schrenker was under investigation when he flew his
Piper model PA46-500TP plane on Jan. 11 from Indiana and bailed
out over southern Alabama, parachuting to the ground.  The plane crashed in the Florida panhandle.  Law enforcement officials found him at a campground near
Quincy, Florida, bleeding from gashes in his arms. Schrenker
said in a letter later he was on the way to Destin, Florida, to
visit his father when he parachuted from the plane and retrieved
a motorcycle he had put in a storage unit.  U.S. District Judge  Roger Vinson  in Pensacola, Florida,
sentenced Schrenker to four years and three months in a federal
prison last year on charges he had purposefully crashed his
plane and sent a false distress signal to the U.S. Coast Guard.  Consecutive or Concurrent  Nation, who still must accept the sentencing agreement,
will decide whether the state prison term runs consecutively or
concurrently with the federal one, Hamilton County Chief Deputy
Prosecutor Jeffrey Wehmueller said today in a telephone
interview.  “He’s quite remorseful for the circumstances that led to
today,” Schrenker’s lawyer, P. Chadwick Hill of Indianapolis,
said in a telephone interview before the sentencing. He declined
to discuss the case further.  Schrenker also agreed to four years of probation after his
release, to complete any psychiatric treatment his probation
officer recommends and to stay away from jobs where he handles
other people’s money or gives financial advice.  The Indiana case is State of Indiana v. Marcus Schrenker,
29D01-0908-FC078, in the Hamilton County, Indiana, Superior
Court, Criminal Division (Noblesville). The Florida case is U.S.
v. Schrenker, 09-CR-00011, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida (Pensacola).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 