-- Russia, India Discuss Building Stealth Fighter, May Sign Accord This Year
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-10-07T12:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/india-russia-discuss-supply-of-300-fighter-planes-produce-new-jet-range.html
India and Russia are in talks to
jointly produce a new range of fighter aircraft and the South
Asian nation may buy as many as 300 of the jets to strengthen
its defense forces.  The two countries are discussing the collaboration for the
“fifth generation” fighter aircraft and expect to sign an
agreement within a few months, Defense Minister  A.K. Antony  said
at a press conference in New Delhi today. They are also in talks
for a partnership for the supply of 45 transport planes, Antony
said at the event jointly held with Russia’s Defense Minister
 Anatoly Serdyukov .  India has tripled its defense budget over the last decade
as it looks beyond a traditional military rivalry with Pakistan
to counter China’s rising power. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
has spearheaded Russia’s efforts to keep India as the nation’s
largest arms customer, fending off competition from the U.S. and
Europe.  “For the next 10 years, multi-transport aircraft and fifth
generation fighter aircraft will be the shining examples of
India-Russia defense cooperation,” said Antony. “These two
major projects are going to be our flagship programs.”  India is also assessing bids for the supply of 126 fighter
jets to modernize its air force. Chicago-based  Boeing Co. ,
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. , France’s
Dassault Aviation SA, Moscow-based United Aircraft Corp., and
the European Aeronautic, Defense & Space Co., which has
headquarters in Paris and Munich, are competing for the contract,
the world’s biggest in 15 years.  Export Sales  In addition to talks on jointly building a new stealth
fighter, Russia is discussing supplying more Su-30 fighter jets
to India,  Sergei Chemezov , chief executive officer at  Russian
Technologies Corp.,  told reporters today in Cyprus.  “Our plane is already flying,” said Chemezov. “Now we’ve
simply proposed to India to create maybe a modernized airplane
that would be suitable for their air force and export sales.”  The contracts may be signed by the end of the year,
Chemezov said, without providing any figures. State-owned
Russian Technologies controls Rosoboronexport, the country’s
arms exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net ;
 Lyubov Pronina  in Nicosia at 
7732 or  lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  