-- India Doesn't Plan to Restrict Foreign Direct Investment, Mukherjee Says
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-10-08T04:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/india-to-avoid-foreign-investment-limits-as-inflows-aren-t-too-volatile-.html
India’s government doesn’t need to
restrict foreign institutional investment and foreign direct
investment at this time, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said
after the rupee climbed to near a two-year high.  “I do not think that situation has arisen in the Indian
economy today,” Mukherjee said in remarks in Washington
yesterday. At the same time, he said it is the responsibility of
the central bank of every country to watch inflows that may make
it vulnerable to currency appreciation, and intervene “as and
when it is necessary.”  The rupee has gained 5.3 percent against the dollar in the
past month, making it Asia’s best performer, as foreigners added
about a net $20 billion to holdings of local stocks this year on
optimism about India’s growth prospects. Countries from Brazil
to South Korea have taken steps to cool currency appreciation
amid rising capital flows into emerging and Asian economies.  International investors’ purchases of Indian shares this
year have also helped drive the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
 Sensitive Index  close to a record.  “I don’t think it is going to be too volatile,” Mukherjee
said, referring to the inflow of capital. It “has not distorted
market sentiment and therefore there is no question of putting
any curbs.”  Rupee, Stocks  The rupee fell 0.3 percent to 44.31 against the dollar in
Mumbai at 9:10 a.m. today. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive
Index declined 0.3 percent to 20,246.44.  Mukherjee was speaking at an event organized by the Woodrow
Wilson Center and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce
and Industry.  The recent moves by countries to stem gains in their
currencies have triggered concern about protectionist
retaliation that would impede global growth. Brazil’s Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega , a delegate to the International Monetary
Fund annual meetings in Washington this week, said Sept. 27
there’s already a worldwide “currency war.”  Mukherjee said there is a need for countries to work
together to find solutions to the tension over exchange rates.  “We should try to engage the countries in negotiations and
build up a consensus through which the matter can be resolved,”
he said. “It cannot be resolved through confrontation.”  Turning to the Indian economy, the finance minister said
that while “there is inflationary pressure in the system,” he
is more watchful of rising food prices.  On the supply side, steps are being taken to address the
shortage of some goods through imports, and on the demand side,
the increase in interest rates by the Reserve Bank of India
means “a part of the excess liquidity will be mopped up,” he
said. The hope is that by the end of the financial year, the
South Asian nation’s inflation rate will be around 6 percent,
Mukherjee said.  The RBI last month increased interest rates for the fifth
time this year, the most number of times among Asian central
banks this year, and said its moves have brought the “monetary
situation close to normal.” The bank’s reverse repurchase rate
is 5 percent and the repurchase rate is 6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net 
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 