-- Indiana Ex-Fund Manager Who Faked Plane Crash Death Gets 10-Year Sentence
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   H o w a r d   S m u l e v i t z
-- 2010-10-08T00:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/indiana-ex-fund-manager-who-faked-plane-crash-death-gets-10-year-sentence.html
Indiana ex-fund manager  Marcus Schrenker , who tried to fake his death and elude investigating
authorities by crashing his own plane, was given a 10-year state
sentence for fraud.  “I’m so sorry. I’m so sorry,” Schrenker, 39, told Indiana
Superior Court Judge Steven R. Nation in a Noblesville, Indiana
courtroom. “I let my assets control me.”  His term is to run consecutively with a four-year federal
sentence imposed last year for crashing his plane and sending a
false distress call. Nation affirmed a deal Schrenker made with
prosecutors in August after pleading guilty to five counts of
fraudulently selling securities.  The president of Heritage Wealth Management in
Indianapolis, Schrenker was under investigation when he flew his
Piper model PA46-500TP plane on Jan. 11, 2009, from Indiana and
bailed out over southern Alabama.  The plane crashed in the Florida panhandle.  Law enforcement officials found him at a campground near
Quincy, Florida, bleeding from gashes in his arms. Schrenker
said in a letter later he was on the way to Destin, Florida, to
visit his father when he jumped and retrieved a motorcycle he
had put in a storage unit.  Stress, Bi-Polar  Schrenker’s lawyer, P. Chadwick Hill of Indianapolis, today
told the court his client suffered from stress, bi-polar disease
and reliance upon drugs and alcohol.  Hamilton County Chief Deputy Prosecutor Jeffrey Wehmueller
countered that that was no excuse.  “Many people have stress and don’t commit crimes,” he
said.  Under the plea agreement, Schrenker is required to pay
restitution in excess of $610,000.  One of his victims, Charles William Black, told the court
he had lost his children’s $15,000 college fund to Schrenker’s
scheme.  Black said that while he, as a Christian, forgave
Schrenker, “Christian principles require that you don’t condone
crimes like this and that you have to pay for them.”  Schrenker’s attempt to fake his death fits a pattern for
some financial executives faced with collapsing companies and
tightening investigations.  Suicide Note  A day after Schrenker’s arrest, Florida hedge-fund manager
Arthur Nadel was reported missing, having left a note indicating
he planned suicide after authorities began investigating
complaints about missing investor money. Nadel, caught after two
weeks on the lam, pleaded guilty to fraud in February. He had
overstated the money he managed by more than $350 million.  Hedge fund manager Sam Israel, convicted in a $400 million
fraud scheme, was to start a 20-year prison sentence in June
2008 when he abandoned his car with “suicide is painless”
written in dust on the hood. Three weeks later, after hiding out
in a Springfield, Massachusetts, campground, he surrendered to
police.  White-collar criminals are generally narcissistic and
“begin to believe their own mythology,” Harvard University
neuropsychologist Donald Davidoff said in an interview last
year.  When someone whose personality is tied to wealth and power
is disgraced, the experience produces “dissolution of their
personality,” Davidoff said. “They run not because of the
threat of arrest but a loss of self.”  The Indiana case is State of Indiana v. Marcus Schrenker,
29D01-0908-FC078, in the Hamilton County, Indiana, Superior
Court, Criminal Division (Noblesville). The federal case is U.S.
v. Schrenker, 09-CR-00011, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida (Pensacola).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ; and
Howard Smulevitz in the Noblesville, Indiana Superior Court at
  shsmulevitz@sbcglobalnet.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 