-- Inflation Bonds Show No Trichet Accord Amid Double-Dip Threat: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-08T15:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/inflation-bonds-show-no-trichet-accord-amid-double-dip-threat-euro-credit.html
Bonds that signal investor inflation
expectations show that traders disagree with European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet ’s declaration that another
recession isn’t “in the cards.”  The gauge of how the market perceives consumer-price growth
over five years beginning in five years’ time, a yardstick
Trichet says is used by the ECB, slid this week to the lowest
level in at least six years. In France, the  yield  difference
between 10-year notes and inflation-linked debt fell to 182
basis points from this year’s high of 229 basis points in April.  While Trichet said yesterday risks to the inflation outlook
are “slightly tilted to the upside” after policy makers kept
their main interest rate at an all-time low of 1 percent,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimates investors have bought a record
$20 billion worth of derivatives that protect against the risk
of deflation this year. Consumer-price gains won’t exceed 2
percent next year in Germany, the region’s biggest economy, amid
austerity programs enacted in nations from Ireland to Portugal
to Greece, analyst surveys compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Demand is huge, indicating some in the market have a very
pessimistic view on inflation and growth,” said  Jasper Falk ,
the London-based head of inflation trading at JPMorgan. “In the
past, the possibility of having 10 years of cumulative deflation
in the euro region was seen as remote and the cost of protection
against that was very low. No one thought it was cheap. They
thought it was irrelevant.”  Trichet said last month it’s unlikely the euro region will
sink into a double-dip recession. He maintained that stance
yesterday when he said “the positive momentum remains in
place.”  ECB Vs. Fed  The ECB has told investors since its founding in 1998 that
its top priority is fighting inflation, which erodes the value
of fixed-income securities. By contrast, the  Federal Reserve  and
the Bank of England have signaled they’re more willing to pump
money into the economy to support growth. The  Bank of Japan  said
Oct. 5 that it would keep its benchmark rate at “virtually
zero” until deflation ends and also set up a 5 trillion-yen
($60 billion) fund to purchase assets such as government bonds,
a tool known as quantitative easing.  The so-called five-year, five-year forward breakeven rate,
which currently measures investor expectations for inflation in
the euro region from 2015 to 2020, fell to 1.91 percent on Oct.
4, the lowest since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 2004.  Rates declined even as Europe’s economy expanded at the
fastest pace in four years in the second quarter, according to
data reported Oct. 6 by the European Union statistics office.  ‘Under Pressure’  “Growth will come under pressure as countries like Greece,
Ireland and Portugal cut spending aggressively,” said  Mohit Kumar , a fixed-income strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.
“Our strategy is to sell deflation risk in the U.S. and buy
deflation risk in Europe.”  U.S. Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, and
U.K. index-linked bonds outperformed their European peers as the
Fed and the Bank of England suggested they are open to injecting
more cash into the economy through bond purchases.  TIPS have gained 9.3 percent this year, compared with the
7.6 percent return of U.K. inflation bonds and the 6.1 percent
advance of German index-linked securities.  Reports from the euro region highlight the two-speed
economy of the 16-nation group. While growth in Germany and
France picked up in the second quarter, Ireland’s economy
unexpectedly contracted as consumers cut spending.  Greece’s government repeated its forecast on Oct. 4 that
the gross domestic product will fall 4 percent this year and 2.6
percent in 2011 as the country seeks to reduce the deficit. The
Portuguese economy may shrink 1.4 percent next year, the
International Monetary Fund forecast.  Rescue Package  In May, the European Union and the IMF offered a 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund for Greece and others of
the so-called euro peripheral nations to reduce the chances of a
sovereign default. The loan package imposed budget rules on
distressed euro-area members. Governments in Greece, Spain,
Italy and Portugal have pledged to step up deficit cutting.  Some of the peripheral nations are struggling to implement
spending reductions to meet the 3 percent budget-deficit limit
demanded of common currency members. Spanish workers went on a
general strike last week for the first time in eight years to
protest austerity measures. In Greece, the main union for state
workers, ADEDY, shut down hospitals and schools, and disrupted
flights yesterday to protest the proposed 2011 budget.  Tepid growth and sovereign-debt burdens are “liable to
send the euro zone into a deflationary spiral,” billionaire
investor  George Soros  said Oct. 5 in prepared remarks for a
speech at Columbia University in New York.  Scottish Widows  Soros’s view contrasts with  Graeme Caughey , who helps
oversee about $235 billion at Edinburgh-based Scottish Widows
Investment Partnership. Caughey said the drop in inflation
breakeven rates presents “a good opportunity” to buy index-
linked bonds as the ECB will almost certainly succeed in
preventing deflation.  “In the end, I think the ECB will do all they can to
prevent that scenario,” Caughey said. The breakeven rate, a
gauge of market expectations for inflation, is derived from the
yield gap between regular and index-linked bonds.  When investors buy inflation-protected bonds, they receive
so-called real yields, which tend to be lower than those of
nominal bonds. The advantage of index-linked bonds is that their
principal increases with inflation. In the euro zone, the figure
is based mainly on consumer-price indexes for the region.  Breakeven Rates  While longer-term inflation expectations are declining,
index-linked bonds suggest investors are wary about the shorter
term. France’s one-year breakeven rate is  close  to the highest
in at least five months, reached at the start of October,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Euro inflation is liable to move above 2 percent in early
2011, potentially well above that if further value-added tax
increases are announced,” said  Alan James , head of inflation-
linked bond research at Barclays Capital in London. “The euro
area in aggregate is likely to continue its economic recovery
into early next year when the impact of fiscal tightening is
likely to start to be felt.  Italian index-linked bonds, a proxy of inflation securities
for the region’s non-AAA market, fell during the first nine
months of this year for the first time since 2006, according to
indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The
securities underperformed the regular bond market by 3.7
percentage points, the most since 2008 when U.S. investment bank
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt.  Debt Deflation  “The risk of debt deflation is just too great and the
market is trying to pass on that message to policy makers,”
said  Stuart Thomson , a fund manager in Glasgow at Ignis Asset
Management, which is selling euro-area inflation bonds.  The ECB claims that, unlike the Fed or the Bank of England,
it hasn’t resorted to printing money. It has bought bonds from
peripheral countries to stabilize the market and issued short-
term money market instruments to absorb excess liquidity in the
market, a process known as sterilization.  Quantitative easing tends to lead to inflation and a
decline in the currency, said  David Owen , chief European
economist at Jefferies International Ltd. The euro has dropped
about 13 percent against the dollar from its peak in July 2008
to $1.3928 as of 4 p.m. in London. Yet, the currency remains
stronger than its five-year average of about $1.35, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A weaker currency is exactly what the ECB needs to boost
the economy,” said Owen. “Trichet has talked up recovery, but
I’m more pessimistic than he is. I’m inclined to think the
Federal Reserve and the Bank of England will be more successful
than the ECB in supporting growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  