-- WaMu, Innkeepers, Old GM, Lehman, Madoff: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-07T12:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/innkeepers-old-gm-national-envelope-lehman-bankruptcy.html
Washington Mutual Inc.  filed a
revised plan and disclosure statement yesterday incorporating a
settlement with holders of senior bonds issued by the failed
bank subsidiary Washington Mutual Bank.  The so-called bank bondholders will now receive a fixed
$335 million from the parent WaMu’s plan, compared with a
maximum of $150 million under the prior plan.  The settlement with the bank bondholders required revising
the so-called global settlement with the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. as receiver for the failed bank. The WaMu
holding company and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  are the other parties
to the revised global settlement.  The new settlement increases the WaMu holding company’s
share of the second part of a tax refund to 69.6 percent from
65.2 percent set aside in the prior version. The remainder of
the second portion of the refund goes to the FDIC.  WaMu estimates that the recovery on the second part of the
tax refund will be $2.8 billion, with $1.95 billion earmarked
for the Wamu holding company.  The revised settlement provides for paying $10 million
toward lawyers’ fees for the bank bondholders.  The new plan puts the holders of subordinated bank bonds
into a separate class to receive nothing under the plan.  WaMu has a hearing scheduled on Oct. 18 for approval of the
revised disclosure statement. Whether it will be approved at the
time is unclear because the report of the examiner isn’t due
until Nov. 1.  The examiner,  Joshua Hochberg , was appointed when
opposition arose to the original global settlement. Hochberg is
to evaluate the merits of the settlement.  As before, WaMu’s revised plan would distribute more than
$7 billion to creditors. To read about the prior settlement,
click here for the May 24 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Click
here to read the May 18 Bloomberg bankruptcy report for a
summary of WaMu’s plan.  The WaMu holding company filed under Chapter 11 in
September 2008, one day after the bank subsidiary was taken
over. The bank, which had been the sixth-largest depository and
credit-card issuer in the U.S., was the largest bank failure in
the country’s history. The holding company filed formal lists of
assets and debt showing property with a total value of $4.49
billion against liabilities of $7.83 billion.  The holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Washington
Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Updates  DBSD Plan Held Up on Appeal by Federal Appeals Court  DBSD North America Inc. was blocked yesterday by a federal
appeals court from implementing the Chapter 11 plan that the
bankruptcy court approved in a November 2009 confirmation order.  DBSD is a development-stage company providing wireless
communications by satellite to mass-market customers in North
America where traditional cellular service isn’t available. To
confirm the plan, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Robert E. Gerber  crammed
down on two classes of creditors, one with first-lien creditor
 DISH Network Corp.  and the other for unsecured creditor  Sprint-
Nextel Corp.   The plan was upheld in the U.S. District Court after appeal
by DISH and Sprint. The two creditors took a second appeal to
the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan which heard oral
argument on Aug. 5. At the request of DISH and Sprint, the
circuit court yesterday imposed a stay precluding DBSD from
implementing the plan until the appeal is decided.  DBSD was unable to implement the plan until the Federal
Communications Commission approved license transfer
applications. When the FCC gave approval on Sept. 30, DISH and
Spring the same day asked the circuit court for a stay pending
appeal.  DBSD, based in Reston, Virginia, placed a geosynchronous
satellite into orbit in April 2008. To read about Gerber’s 67-
page confirmation opinion and details on the plan, click here to
see the Oct. 28 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  DBSD’s petition listed assets of $630 million and debt
totaling $813 million as of March 31, including $51 million in
first-lien debt. The Chapter 11 filing was caused in part by the
illiquidity of $98 million in auction-rate securities purchased
in 2008.  The case is In re DBSD North America Inc., 09-13061, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Innkeepers Case Breaks Ground on Denying Examiner  The reorganization of  Innkeepers USA Trust , a real estate
investment trust, is at the cutting edge of cases analyzing when
a bankruptcy judge isn’t compelled to appoint an examiner. The
bankruptcy judge also said there’s not a substantial likelihood
that preferred shareholders will receive a meaningful
distribution.  It’s often been the view that appointing an examiner is
mandatory for any bankrupt company with more than $5 million
unsecured debt, whenever a creditor seeks an investigation by a
third party. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Shelley C. Chapman , the
newest judge on the bankruptcy bench in New York, ruled on Sept.
30 that an examiner isn’t mandatory.  Chapman found an ambiguity in the statute sufficient to
allow denial of a motion for an examiner when “it is not in the
best interests of all of the debtor’s stakeholders,” the
transcript of the hearing says.  Chapman denied the examiner motion by an ad hoc group of
preferred shareholders on a second ground. She said it hadn’t
been proven that Innkeepers has more than $5 million of
unsecured debt. She gave the preferred equity holders permission
to renew the motion for an examiner if it becomes clear there is
enough unsecured debt other than deficiency claims or if other
grounds surface showing the need for an independent
investigation.  The preferred shareholders lost a second motion on Sept. 30
when Chapman refused to appoint an official equity committee.
She said that the preferred shareholders had “not demonstrated
a substantial likelihood that equity holders will receive a
meaningful distribution.” She said there was no “persuasive”
evidence that six properties, not covered by blanket liens of
the two primary secured creditors, are worth more than their
mortgages.  Palm Beach, Florida-based Innkeepers has 72 extended-stay
and limited-service properties with 10,000 rooms in 20 states.
Midland Loan Services Inc. is servicer for $825 million in
mortgage debt on 45 of Innkeepers’ 72 properties. Lehman Ali
Inc., a subsidiary of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , has $238
million in floating-rate mortgages on 20 properties.  In August, Chapman refused to allow Innkeepers to lock up a
deal where the new equity would have been split between the
current owner,  Apollo Investment Corp. , and Lehman.  Midland has designs on filing a plan financed by selling
the new stock for $236 million to Five Mile Capital Partners
LLC. For details on Innkeepers’ plan and Midland’s proposal for
a competing plan, click here for the Aug. 31 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Apollo acquired the company in July 2007 in a $1.35 billion
transaction. The Innkeepers petition listed assets of $1.5
billion against debt totaling $1.52 billion.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Old GM’s $1 Billion Cash Isn’t for Unsecured Creditors  Although old  General Motors Corp.  had $964 million cash at
the end of August, the funds will all be used either to pay
costs of the liquidation or to repay as much as possible of the
$1.2 billion loan from the government to fund the Chapter 11
case.  Before interest expense, the operating loss in August was
$2.8 million. Cash declined in the month by $12.4 million,
according to the monthly operating report for August.  Old GM again said all of the stock and warrants received
from the sale of the business should be available for
distribution to creditors under the pending Chapter 11 plan.
Unsecured creditors won’t receive any cash, the operating report
once again said.  Old GM filed a liquidating Chapter 11 plan in August. A
hearing is scheduled on Oct. 21 for approval of the explanatory
disclosure statement. A trust for unsecured creditors would
distribute stock and warrants in new GM that resulted from the
sale of the core business last year. To read about the plan,
click here for the Sept. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The sale of the core business generated 10 percent of the
stock of the new GM plus warrants for 15 percent. The warrants
will have value if the new company is profitable enough to raise
the company’s value to specified levels. New GM, formally named
 General Motors Co. , is 60.8 percent owned by the U.S.
government.  Old GM began the largest manufacturing reorganization in
history by filing under Chapter 11 on June 1, 2009. The sale was
completed on July 10, 2009. GM listed assets of $82.3 billion
against debt totaling $172.8 billion.  The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Judge to Rule on Dismissal Motion by Madoff Relatives  Two sons, a brother and a niece of  Bernard Madoff  argued in
bankruptcy court yesterday in favor of dismissing the lawsuit
brought against them in October 2009 by the trustee for Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities Inc.  The family argued in their motion to dismiss that the
trustee’s complaint was replete with conclusory allegations
while lacking specific instances of fraudulent conduct they say
the law requires.  The Madoff kin filed their motions to dismiss in March.
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton R. Lifland  didn’t say when he will
rule, according to a report from Reuters.  The dismissal motions were made by Madoff’s sons Mark and
Andrew, brother Peter and niece Shana.  The suit seeks to recover almost $200 million. It alleges
that the relatives used the firm as a “family piggy bank.” The
sons were co-directors of trading while the brother was chief
compliance officer and the niece was a compliance director.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008 with the
appointment of a trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  Bernard Madoff  individually went into an
involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His bankruptcy
case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation. Madoff is
serving a 150-year prison sentence following a guilty plea.  The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-
00213, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  International Garden Secures Interim Loan Approval  International Garden Products Inc.  filed for Chapter 11
protection on Oct. 4 in Delaware and was given interim authority
yesterday to borrow $4.75 million from a promised $7.5 million
credit provided from a lending group led by Harris NA.  The final hearing for approval of the entire $7.5 million
package will take place Nov. 4.  IGP, based in Damascus, Oregon, is a supplier for
independent garden stores, landscapers and landscape suppliers.
The company produces dwarf conifers and Japanese maples through
affiliate Iseli Nursery Inc. Affiliate Weeks Wholesale Rose
Grower is one of the largest growers of roses in the U.S.  IGP owes $30.7 million on a secured revolving credit and
$13 million on a secured term loan. EF Private Equity Partners
(Americas) LP holds over half of the common stock and the Series
A preferred stock.  The case is In re International Garden Products Inc., 10-
13207, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Precision Parts Plan Has 0.15% for Junior Creditors  Precision Parts International Services Corp. , once an auto-
parts maker, has a hearing on Oct. 12 for approval of a
disclosure statement telling unsecured creditors with $103
million in claims that they stand to collect 0.15 percent under
the Chapter 11 plan.  PPI filed under Chapter 11 in December 2008 and sold the
assets in March, generating net proceeds of $16 million. Secured
lenders received $9.8 million immediately.  The unsecured creditors’ committee challenged the validity
of the secured lenders’ claim. The challenge resulted in a
settlement in which $575,000 was carved out for the company’s
creditors.  In addition to $150,000 cash, unsecured creditors are to
receive some recoveries from lawsuits, plus other excess cash,
if any.  The Rochester Hills, Michigan-based company had six plants
in North America making metal formed components for the auto and
aerospace industries. It owed more than $85 million on bank
loans to  Golub Capital  and Norwest Mezzanine Partners II LP.
Court papers listed other debts as including $184.5 million in
secured and unsecured loan obligations plus $30 million owing to
trade suppliers. The revolving credit and term loans were $89
million while there was an $88.5 million mezzanine loan. First
Atlantic Capital Ltd. acquired control of the company in 2005.  The case is In re PPI Holdings Inc., 08-13289, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  New Filings  Protein Solutions Files in Chicago Owing Wells Fargo  Agri-Best Holdings LLC , a processor and distribution of
meat products for the restaurant industry, filed a Chapter 11
petition on Oct. 5 in its Chicago hometown.  The company, which is known in the trade as Protein
Solutions, blamed the filing on the costs associated with moving
to a new plant and the tendency of consumers to eat at home
rather than in restaurants as a result of the recession.  The company owes $14.6 million to secured lender Wells
Fargo Bank NA, which has a lien on accounts receivable and
inventory with a book value of $14.2 million. There is another
$5.9 million owing on a secured claim to equity holder Advantage
Capital Partners. Advantage has a lien on all assets, court
papers say.  The company says that the book value of all assets is just
under $20 million. Annual revenue is around $140 million, the
company web site says.  The case is In re Agri-Best Holdings LLC, 10-44595, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District Illinois (Chicago).  Earth Mover Graham Brothers Files Chapter 11 in Georgia  Graham Brothers Construction Co. , an earth-moving
contractor, filed a Chapter 11 petition on Oct. 5 in its Dublin,
Georgia, hometown.  Komatsu Financial LP immediately filed a motion for
permission to take back 34 pieces of earth-moving equipment
where Graham owes $11.5 million.  Debts on equipment include $11.7 million listed as owing to
Wells Fargo Equipment Finance Inc., $3.2 million to  General
Electric Capital Corp. , $2.5 million to Caterpillar Financial
Service, and $900,000 to Morris State Bank.  The petition says assets are less than $10 million while
debt exceeds $10 million.  The case is In re Graham Brothers Construction Co. Inc.,
10-30534, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District Georgia
(Dublin).  Briefly Noted  Cynergy Data Seeks Fifth Exclusivity Extension  Former credit card processor Cynergy Data LLC, now formally
named CD Liquidation Co. Plus LLC, for a fifth time is seeking
an extension of the exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11
plan. If granted at a Nov. 12 hearing, the new deadline would be
Jan. 11.  At the same Nov. 12 hearing, Cynergy is hoping the
bankruptcy judge will approve the disclosure statement
explaining the liquidating Chapter 11 plan filed in September.
Remaining assets won’t pay anything aside from lawsuit
recoveries to anyone except holders of first-lien debt. The plan
confirmation hearing is tentatively set for Dec. 21. The plan is
founded on a settlement with secured lenders.  Cynergy sold the business to private-equity investor
ComVest Group for $81 million, including $14 million in
subordinated debt payable by the purchaser. Long Island City,
New York-based Cynergy processed $10 billion in credit charges
annually for 80,000 merchants before the Chapter 11 filing in
September 2009. The petition listed assets of $110 million
against debt totaling $186 million. Listed debt included $39.8
million on a first-lien credit and $80.1 million on a junior
secured credit. There was also $9 million owing by an affiliate
that Cynergy guaranteed.  The case is In re CD Liquidation Co. Plus LLC, 09-13038,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  National Envelope’s Exclusivity Extended to Jan. 6  National Envelope Corp. drew no objections and received an
extension until Jan. 6 of the exclusive right to propose a
liquidating Chapter 11 plan. NEC sold the business in September
to affiliates of Gores Group LLC under a contract valued at $208
million, including cash of $149.85 million. National Envelope
called itself the largest closely held envelope manufacturing
company in the U.S. on filing under Chapter 11 in June.  Based in Uniondale, New York, National Envelope said assets
and debt were both less than $500 million. Liabilities included
$74.3 million on a secured term loan, $70.6 million on a secured
revolving credit, and $89 million owing on unsecured debts to
trade suppliers.  The case is In re NEC Holdings Corp., 10-11890, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  ProtoStar Plan Confirmed Based on Settlement with Lenders  The bankruptcy judge said at a confirmation hearing
yesterday that she will approve the liquidating Chapter 11 plan
for ProtoStar Ltd. Confirmation was facilitated by a settlement
where secured lenders made a give-up in favor of unsecured
creditors. The creditors had challenged the validity of the
lenders’ liens.  Recoveries vary depending on the company owing a particular
debt. For a description of the plan and the recoveries by
creditors of each ProtoStar company, click here to see the Sept.
1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Hamilton, Bermuda-based ProtoStar and five subsidiaries
filed under Chapter 11 in July 2009, listing assets of $528
million and debt of $463 million. Debt included $10 million on a
first lien, plus $183 million in 12.5 percent and 18 percent
secured notes and $242 million on the so-called Credit Suisse
facility secured by all the assets. The satellites were launched
in 2008 and 2009.  The case is In re ProtoStar Ltd., 09-12659, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Ambac Financial Group Drops $6 Billion in Claims Against Lehman  Ambac Financial Group Inc.  agreed to a settlement where it
will drop $6 billion in claims against  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  Lehman in turn will forgo claims against Ambac, which is in
a so-called rehabilitation proceeding overseen by Wisconsin
state insurance regulators.  To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Arrowhead Sued for $105 Million by Petters Trustee  The trustee for Petters Group Worldwide and Petters Co.
sued Arrowhead Capital Management LLC to recover $105 million or
more that the investor received in the Ponzi scheme conducted by
 Thomas Petters . To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Petters was convicted in December on 20 counts including
fraud, conspiracy, and money laundering and given a 50-year
prison sentence. After a raid by federal investigators, a
receiver was appointed for Petters’ companies. The receiver put
them into Chapter 11 in October 2008.  The Chapter 11 cases for the two Petters companies are In
re Petters Co. and In re Petters Group Worldwide LLC, 08-45257
and 08-45258, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Minnesota (St.
Paul).  Advance Sheets  No Claim Against D&O Carrier if Officer Pays Nothing  A U.S. District Judge in Kansas City slammed the door on a
technique used by creditors for getting into the pockets of
insurance companies providing directors’ and officers’ liability
insurance.  The Chapter 11 plan for  Interstate Bakeries Corp.  created a
trust to bring lawsuits after the reorganization was completed
in early 2009. One of the company officers settled a suit by the
trust where he consented to a judgment for $56 million. The
settlement provided that the trust would collect only from
insurance coverage.  The insurance companies filed a motion to dismiss when the
trust sued to recover on the policy. U.S. District Judge  Howard Sachs  granted the motion to dismiss. Sachs said that there was
no valid claim on the policy because the company officer hadn’t
incurred a loss, as defined in the policy.  Courts have gone both ways in similar cases. The Interstate
case turned on how Sachs thought courts in Missouri would
interpret state law. The result could be different in other
states.  Kansas City-based Interstate was the country’s largest
wholesale baker when it began court reorganization in September
2004. The brand names included Wonder, Hostess, Merita, Dolly
Madison, Drake’s and Butternut. For details about Interstate’s
plan, click here for the Oct. 31, 2008, Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  The case is U.S. Bank NA v. Federal Insurance Co., 10-0266,
U.S. District Court, Western District Missouri (Kansas City).
The bankruptcy case was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp., 04-
45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of Missouri
(Kansas City).  Lawyer Tagged for Having Fee Paid on Credit Card  A bankruptcy lawyer who told a new client to pay his $3,000
fee with a credit card became the poster child for a crackdown
by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  C. Catherine Preston  on attorneys who
violate the Bankruptcy Code.  Preston, from Dayton, Ohio, explained in her 32-page
opinion on Sept. 30 how bankruptcy lawyer  Michael W. Warren  told
a prospective client that he would put her in Chapter 7 where
she’d make one $900 payment while escaping all other debt except
the first-mortgage on her home. After she paid him a $3,000 fee,
he told her the case would be in Chapter 13 where she’d be
required to pay $6,000 to her creditors over five years.  When it came to paying the $3,000 fee, Preston said in her
opinion that Warren told the client to use her credit card even
though she would be filing bankruptcy soon.  Preston said that paying the fee with a credit card was
“insidious conduct” in violation of a provision in bankruptcy
law prohibiting a lawyer from telling a client to incur debt in
contemplation of bankruptcy. Preston also found that Warren
violated several provisions of the Ohio Rules of Professional
Conduct by providing inadequate representation.  The bankruptcy judge directed the lawyer to pay his
client’s credit card company $3,274. She also required the
lawyer to file a list of all cases going back five years where
clients paid his fee with a credit card.  The lawyer Warren said in an interview that he is
appealing. He wouldn’t comment further, he said, because the
matter is in litigation.  The case is also a cautionary tale for lawyers who don’t
provide services promised in a retainer agreement.  The case is In re Seidel, 09-58731, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District Ohio (Dayton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 