-- Iran Pledges Crackdown if Bazaar Merchants Strike Over Cuts in Subsidies
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-10-07T12:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/iran-to-take-action-against-strikers-after-subsidy-cuts-mehr-reports.html
Iran’s government vowed a crackdown
against merchants in the nation’s bazaars, an economic force
whose 1979 shutdowns helped to topple the monarchy, if the
retailers go on strike once subsidy cuts are made.  “The judiciary will deal with those who are indifferent to
the country’s economic context and disturb the public order by
closing shops,” prosecutor Abbas Jafari-Dolatabadi was quoted
as saying by the state-run  Mehr  news agency late yesterday.  National police chief  Esmail Ahmadi-Moghaddam  said Oct. 1
that opposition supporters may try to foment unrest when the
state begins phasing out subsidies for fuel and basic consumer
goods in the country of more than 70 million. After many delays,
the government said the cuts may begin within the coming weeks.  The five-year plan to end subsidies comes amid an increase
in sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program. The United
Nations imposed a fourth round of sanctions June 9. The U.S.
approved its own stepped-up measures July 1, targeting Iranian
fuel importers and banks. The European Union followed, banning
investment and sales of equipment to Iran’s energy industries.  Until recently, a four-member Iranian household with a
typical annual income of about $3,600 a year received an
average of $4,000 annually in subsidies for oil and gas,
the International Monetary Fund said Sept. 29.  Grants for Poor  The Economy and Finance Ministry said the poorest
households will start receiving grants this week, ahead of
gradual price increases that may be announced this month.
Officials haven’t said what prices will be under the new system.  Some of Iran’s gold merchants went on strike last month to
protest the enforcement of a value-added tax, saying they hadn’t
been fully informed about the impact of the measure on their
businesses, Mehr said in the report.  While modern stores have changed Iranian shopping habits,
many still rely on the bazaars’ retailers for basic goods.
Subsidies have been a tenet of the Islamic establishment
since it took power in a 1979 revolution, accounting for 27
percent of Iran’s economy in 2007, with energy consuming the
largest share. Several Iranian lawmakers have warned that
cutting subsidies may fuel inflation and reduce growth.  In June 2009, mass demonstrations followed the announcement
that President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  had won a second term, posing
the biggest challenge to the establishment since the revolution
and prompting a crackdown by security forces. More than 5,000
people were arrested in the weeks after the vote. Official
figures show 44 people were killed in the unrest. Amnesty
International said the toll was at least twice as high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  