-- Iran Seeks to Export Natural Gas to Lebanon, Revamp Country's Refineries
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-10-07T09:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/iran-seeks-to-export-natural-gas-to-lebanon-revamp-country-s-refineries.html
     Oct. 7 (Bloomberg)-- Iran offered to rehabilitate
Lebanon’s refineries and invest in water projects and gas
supplies in the east Mediterranean country and officials from
the two countries will discuss the offer today, the Lebanese
energy minister’s senior adviser said.  Lebanese Energy Minister  Gebran Bassil , a member of a
political bloc that is supported by Iran, is due to meet his
Iranian counterpart Majid Namjoo in Beirut today to discuss
cooperation, Raymond Ghajar said in an interview in Beirut.  “They are interested to further investigate what they can
do in the water sector, the dams, the electricity sector, gas
supplies and the rehabilitation of the refineries,” Ghajar
said. “These are massive, mega projects,” he said, without
explaining the nature of the envisaged cooperation.  Lebanon has two main political blocs -- one backed by Iran
and Syria and is led by the Hezbollah group, which controls much
of southern Lebanon and has representatives in the country’s
government and parliament, and another alliance has U.S. and
Saudi Arabian backing. Lebanon continues to suffer from power
shortages that can reach 15 hours a day since the 15-year civil
war that ended in 1990 and the war with Israel in 2006.  Iranian officials said they were looking into helping with
the rehabilitation of Lebanon’s two refineries, which currently
are only used for storage, he said. Iran has also proposed to
supply Lebanon with natural gas, in cooperation with neighboring
Syria and Turkey, said Ghajar.  “The gas will probably go through Iraq and Syria, or
through Iraq, Turkey and Syria,” he said.  Iranian embassy officials were not available for comment
when contacted by Bloomberg today.  Iraq agreed in August to allow Iran to export natural gas
through pipelines running across its territory toward Syria.  Lebanon currently imports natural gas from Egypt, he said.  Natural gas imported from Egypt is not covering demand.
Shortages this summer encouraged Lebanon to seek alternative
sources for natural gas, he said.  Lebanon’s energy minister was in Tehran a few days ago
where he discussed energy cooperation with Oil Minister  Masoud Mir Kazemi .  In 2009, Lebanon’s average capacity and imports were 1,500
megawatts, while demand peaked in the summer at 2,450 megawatts,
according to a government report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Beirut 
 Nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  