-- Ireland Won't Impose Losses on Senior Debtholders of Financial Insitutions
-- B y   L o u i s a   F a h y
-- 2010-10-07T13:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/ireland-has-no-plan-to-impose-losses-on-senior-debt-holders.html
Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
said the government has “no intention” of imposing losses on
holders of senior debt of Ireland’s credit institutions through
legislative measures.  Senior noteholders rank equally with depositors and other
creditors under Irish law, Ireland’s National Treasury
Management Agency said in a  statement  on its website.  Lenihan “has no plans to change this position and that
there is, therefore, no intention to impose losses on holders of
such senior debt in any credit institution in the state through
any legislative measures,” the NTMA said in the statement.  Financial Regulator  Matthew Elderfield  said yesterday that
a “liquidity management exercise” by consent with senior
bondholders in  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  and Irish Nationwide
Building Society hasn’t been ruled out. Lenihan said Sept. 30
that while senior bondholders will be paid in full under
Ireland’s banking bailout, legislation is being prepared to
“address the issue” of junior bondholders taking a loss on
their investments.  “The Minister has advised that prospective resolution and
reorganization legislation, insofar as it affects subordinated
debt in issue, will apply only to such debt in issue from
institutions which are not listed on a recognized stock
exchange, are in 100 percent state control and cannot survive in
the absence of total state support,” the NTMA said today.  Ireland’s deteriorating finances have fueled investor
concern it will follow Greece in tapping the 750 billion-euro
rescue fund set up by the European Union and International
Monetary Fund. The cost of bailing out Ireland’s banks may
ultimately rise to about 50 billion euros ($70 billion).  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Louisa Fahy  at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at  