-- Government Approves Handing More Tax Powers to Italy's Local Authorities
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-10-07T11:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/italy-approves-decree-giving-more-tax-authority-to-local-governments.html
Italy’s government approved a decree
to give local authorities the power to set some taxes and hold
on to more of the levies paid in their regions to finance local
public services, including health care.  “Italy is the only European country that doesn’t have
local financing, it’s all centralized,” Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said at a press conference in Rome today to explain the
plan.  Under the new rules, regional governments will be able to
hold on to some of the value-added taxes collected, and reduce
or eliminate a regional corporate tax known as IRAP. Tremonti
didn’t give details about how the change will affect personal
income-tax collection.  The devolution plan is key to Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  maintaining the support of his main ally, the
Northern League party.  Umberto Bossi , the party’s founder, has
championed the legislation, saying that wealth from the north is
siphoned off to finance the economically depressed south. Bossi
brought down Berlusconi’s first government in 1994 when he
pulled out of the ruling coalition.  Maintaining the support of the Northern League has become
more critical since  Gianfranco Fini , who co-founded Berlusconi’s
 People of Liberty  party, broke with the premier in July,
potentially denying the government a parliamentary majority.  Today’s decision “bodes well” for the continuation of
this government, said  Roberto Calderoli , a Northern League
leader and minister for legislative simplification.  Tax Overhaul  Shifting more authority to local governments won’t raise
overall tax rates, and once the so-called federalism plan is
implemented, the government will overhaul the national tax
system, Tremonti said. Local authorities will be forced to
exercise tighter controls over their finances and those that
reduce or eliminate the IRAP tax will have to cut spending to
compensate for the lost revenue, Calderoli said.  Any abuse of the expanded tax power by local governments
will be punished by blocking officials from seeking reelection
or dissolving the regional administrations, Calderoli said.  Berlusconi’s Cabinet today passed a decree containing the
measures that will require the approval of parliament. The
premier said yesterday that the changes would help reduce
disparity in costs across the country’s 20 regions for services
such as health care. The government, which is scheduled to end
its term in 2013, earlier this year passed spending cuts of 25
billion euros ($34 billion) over the next two years to try to
contain its budget shortfall.  Italy has managed to contain its deficit more than the
other so-called peripheral euro-area countries such as Greece
and Spain, though it maintains the highest debt in the region at
more than 115 percent of gross domestic product and close to
twice the European Union limit. Italy’s deficit at 5.3 percent
of GDP last year, is less than half that of Ireland, Greece and
Spain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  