-- Suit Shop Goes West as Hedge-Fund Shoppers Cut Back
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2010-10-07T19:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/jack-welch-s-favored-mitchells-clothing-heads-west-as-hedge-funds-cut-back.html
Mitchells stores, a Connecticut
clothier to hedge funds and corporate chiefs, prospered with
Wall Street until the financial crisis battered sales. Now, the
group sees its California counterpart as the path to growth.  Mitchells  acquired San Francisco retail icon Wilkes
Bashford in November for $4.1 million in bankruptcy court,
merging the East Coast stores frequented by Starwood Capital
Group LLC’s  Barry Sternlicht  with a West Coast shop that
supplies  Apple Inc. ’s  Steve Jobs  with his famous black shirts.
The cross-country move is a gamble as luxury sales struggle to
recover after the U.S. recession.  “If they’re able to maintain the same service, they will
change the game,”  Jack Welch , 74, the former General Electric
Co. chairman and a Mitchells customer for a quarter-century,
said in a telephone interview. “But it’s a long putt when
you’ve got 3,000 miles between stores.”  Jack Mitchell, whose parents started the eponymous Westport
store in 1958, said the family-owned business went west because
“enormous decreases” in wealth by New York-area clientele
meant expansion had to occur elsewhere. Hedge-fund executives,
who once bought $1,500 John Lobb shoes, are spending cautiously
in the aftermath of the financial crisis, he said.  About 240 hedge funds closed in the first quarter,
following the liquidation of almost 2,500 in the prior two
years, according to  Hedge Fund Research Inc. , a Chicago-based
industry data provider. The Mitchell family’s Richards store in
Greenwich, home to about 100 hedge funds, gets 70 percent of its
sales from ZIP codes in that city.  A Changed World  “The world has definitely changed,” said Mitchell, 71,
chief executive officer of the retail group. “But there’s still
a place for quality products delivered with extraordinary,
personalized service.”  Luxury fashion sales in the U.S. fell at least 30 percent
from their peak, according to Robert Ackerman, North American
president and CEO of  Ermenegildo Zegna , the Milan-based maker of
$3,000 men’s suits. The sector is “fragile,”  Stephen Sadove ,
CEO of New York-based retailer Saks Inc., said in an August
interview with Bloomberg Television.  “Everyone says luxury is coming back, but revenues aren’t
what they were,” Russell Mitchell, 47, co-president, said in a
telephone interview.  The five Mitchells properties -- two Connecticut stores,
two in California and one in Huntington, New York -- had sales
of more than $100 million in the year through July. That’s below
the 2007 high achieved without the California assets, Jack
Mitchell said. Still, year-over-year sales rose at least 10
percent in every month since last October, he said. He declined
to give exact revenue figures.  Saks Sales Rise  Saks today reported that same-store sales for the five
weeks ended Oct. 2 increased 6.5 percent from a year earlier.
Dallas-based Neiman Marcus Inc. said sales gained 4.7 percent.
Those retailers often track the performance of the family
stores, Mitchell said.  Boosting sales in California may take time as unemployment
saps demand, said Tom Newton, a Wilkes Bashford customer in the
San Francisco suburb of Atherton and co-founder of ICD Funds, a
money-market firm.  “It’s been devastating and I don’t see tremendous
growth,” Newton, 44, said. “There’s still shock and a feeling
of batten down the hatches.”  Finance Jobs Lost  The  San Francisco  metro area lost 3,100 finance-related
jobs in the year through August and 12,800 since August 2007,
state Employment Development Department data show. Technology
fared better, with jobs in computer systems design increasing by
1,700 in the last year.  San Jose ’s metro area to the south added
4,000 jobs in computer and electronic manufacturing.  Wilkes Bashford Co. shut stores in Carmel and Mill Valley
and laid off a fifth of its staff when it filed for Chapter 11
protection. Mitchells paid cash for the assets, assumed no
liabilities, and renegotiated leases in San Francisco’s Union
Square and at Stanford Shopping Center in Palo Alto, Russ
Mitchell said. He didn’t disclose lease details.  The vacancy rate in Union Square, the city’s downtown
shopping district where Hermes, Gucci,  Tiffany , Neiman Marcus
and Saks Fifth Avenue have stores, fell to 9 percent in August
from 15 percent a year earlier, according to Ross Portugeis, a
broker at Colliers International in San Francisco. Landlords cut
rents by as much as 15 percent to retain tenants, he said.  “A year ago, it was awful,” Portugeis said. “It’s still
uncertain, but the fear isn’t there anymore.”  Vest for $2,700  The same target market that may purchase an $8,000 Kiton
suit or a $2,700 Cucinelli vest already shops at Wilkes Bashford
and the Mitchells stores, suggesting the merger will be a “good
fit,” said Pier Guerci, president of the U.S. division of
Italian luxury brand Loro Piana, which makes $2,400 blazers.  “The top 1 percent of the population has similarities in
spending habits -- what they do, where they go, what they like,
what they don’t like,” Guerci said. “The Mitchells have a
talent for bringing consumers what they like.”  Wilkes Bashford, 77, started his business in 1966 on San
Francisco’s Sutter Street and had expanded the retailer to five
stores by 2007. He promoted unknowns such as  Giorgio Armani  and
 Jean-Paul Gaultier  and stood “on the front line of fashion” in
the U.S., said Zegna’s Ackerman.  ‘Meatball Suits’  In an interview, Bashford said he has seen “meatball
suits” evolve through hippie styles, fitted Italian designs and
bespoke tailoring during the credit bubble. His name was a
fixture for decades in Pulitzer Prize-winner  Herb Caen ’s
newspaper column, a daily compendium of news items, gossip and
musings that ran for almost 60 years in the San Francisco
Chronicle. Caen, a customer who became a close friend, once
wrote that brown socks with black shoes was a “sartorial
conundrum that stumps even Wilkes Bashford.”  Bashford recalled a 1967 lunch meeting with a young Ralph
Lauren, who laid out his vision for a fashion empire. Ties at
the time cost $3.50, and a nice one cost $5. Lauren widened them
by more than an inch and charged $12.50, Bashford said. He
couldn’t stock the shelves fast enough.  His customers have included former San Francisco Mayor
 Willie Brown , another close friend; current Mayor  Gavin Newsom ;
and ex-football stars Joe Montana and  Jerry Rice . Technology
entrepreneurs such as  Oracle Corp. ’s  Larry Ellison  and Jobs,
Apple’s CEO, shopped at his store “from the very beginning,”
Bashford said.  Steve Dowling , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, and  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Oracle in
Redwood City, California, declined to comment.  Personalized Service  Bashford remains an employee of the store that still bears
his name. He has kept his top-floor office, greeting customers
and working the sales floors in the store’s current home, a
townhouse-style building on Sutter Street. He said he believes
luxury buyers still want personalized service that specialty
stores offer.  That’s why Laura Felton keeps coming back to the flagship
Mitchells in Westport after a dozen years. She needed shoes in a
pinch for a trip to Italy and the staff, knowing her personal
style, helped find Jimmy Choo lizard-skin pumps with black
patent leather trim, on sale for $618 from $825, she said.  “This is like Fifth Avenue comes to Westport,” said
Felton, 44, a skin-care products distributor. “And they know
exactly what to show me.”  For Welch, service is personally handled by Bill Mitchell,
67, co-chairman of the company. The former  GE  boss buys Brioni
suits in solid-blue and blue-pinstripe, and sews date tags
inside to tell them apart.  “The service is beyond belief,” Welch said. “There’s
never a time when they’re not trying to make the customer
happy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  