-- Japan's Bonds Rise, Completing Weekly Gain, as Central Bank Eases Policy
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-10-08T07:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/japan-government-bonds-may-rise-extending-weekly-gain-as-yen-appreciates.html
Japan’s 10-year  bonds  rose, extending
a four-week gain, on speculation the yen’s climb to a 15-year
high will pressure the central bank to ease policy further.  The  difference  in two-year yields between U.S. and Japanese
bonds narrowed yesterday to the least since December 2008,
helping push the yen higher against the dollar, said  Shinji Nomura , chief debt strategist at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.
The Bank of Japan cut interest rates on Oct. 5 and said it may
buy government debt and other assets to reinvigorate the economy.  “With the yen remaining strong, expectations may rise that
the Bank of Japan will expand easing efforts, such as increasing
its asset-purchase fund,” said Tokyo-based Nomura. “Investors
are moving into long-term bonds.”  The  yield  on the 0.8 percent security due September 2020
fell three basis points to 0.86 percent at 4:21 p.m. in Tokyo at
Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt
broker. Benchmark yields dropped 9.5 basis points over the past
week. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery added 0.10 to
143.95 at the close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The Japanese currency strengthened to 82.11 per dollar
yesterday, a level not seen since May 1995. On Sept. 15 when the
yen advanced to 82.88, Japan sold the yen to weaken it for the
first time since 2004. Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
said in Washington that the stronger yen has hurt Japan’s
economy by eroding exporters’ earnings.  Benchmark 10-year yields have fallen 29 basis points over
the past four weeks. Yields touched 0.82 percent on Oct. 6, the
lowest level since July 1, 2003.  BOJ Easing  The BOJ said it will set up a 5 trillion yen ($61 billion)
fund to buy government debt, exchange-traded funds and real-
estate investment trusts. The Federal Reserve said Sept. 21 that
it is prepared to act to support the U.S. economy and to counter
“subdued” inflation, leading traders to increase bets that
costs in the world’s largest economy will quicken.  Japan’s 10-year bonds also gained before a report
economists said will show the U.S. unemployment rate rose for a
second month. The U.S. jobless rate climbed to 9.7 percent in
September from 9.6 percent the previous month, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before
the Labor Department releases the data today.  U.S. Inflation  Japan’s  20-year yield  jumped as much as 12 basis points in
Tokyo today, the biggest gain since Aug. 27, amid speculation
excessive Fed easing will stoke inflation in the long term. The
 yield  ended the day three basis points higher at 1.7 percent.  “Concern about inflation is looming in the U.S. because of
looser policy and the weaker dollar,” said  Ayako Sera , who
helps oversee about $310 billion in Tokyo as a strategist at
Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co. “Shorter-maturity debt is more
responsive to monetary policy, whereas super-long bonds tend to
move in a similar way globally.”  Traders see prices in the U.S. rising an average 2.24
percent annually over the next 30 years, as measured by the so-
called breakeven rate, or difference in yields between
inflation-linked bonds and conventional debt. Accelerating
inflation reduces the value of the fixed interest debt pays.  China sold a net 2.02 trillion yen in Japanese debt in
August, the Ministry of Finance said today in Tokyo, the biggest
monthly sale in data going back to 2005. The larger nation
bought a record 735.2 billion yen of Japanese debt in May and
another 1.04 trillion yen the following two months.  “Today’s ministry report suggests China had purchased yen-
denominated assets not to diversify their foreign reserves but
to temporary escape from the unstable financial situation in
Europe,”  Yasunari Ueno , chief market economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in Tokyo, wrote in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  