-- Japan Says It Won't Join Currency Devaluation Race
-- B y   H i t o s h i   O z a w a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2010-10-07T09:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/japan-won-t-join-a-currency-devaluation-race-vice-finance-minister-says.html
Japan won’t weaken the yen to become
more competitive with other countries in trade and any currency
intervention would be aimed at restraining excessive moves, Vice
Finance Minister  Fumihiko Igarashi  said.  “It’s not our intention to engage in a currency-
devaluation race for the sake of the national interest,”
Igarashi said in an interview in Tokyo today. “We could conduct
smoothing operations when movements are extremely volatile, that
would be permissible.”  Igarashi spoke as Japan’s currency reached its highest
against the dollar since 1995, surpassing the level at which the
nation’s authorities last month intervened for the first time
since 2004. Finance chiefs from the Group of Seven major
industrialized nations are poised to discuss exchange rates at a
meeting in Washington tomorrow.  “This comment does suggest a change in strategy could be
in the offing, especially given the approach of Friday’s G-7
meeting,”  Gareth Berry , a currency strategist in Singapore at
UBS AG, the world’s second-biggest currency trader, wrote in a
note to clients, referring to Igarashi’s remarks.  Japan’s currency climbed 0.6 percent to 82.41 per dollar at
6:04 p.m. in Tokyo, bringing its advance for the year to about
13 percent. Japan sold more than 2 trillion yen ($24 billion) in
its intervention on Sept. 15.  Market to Decide  Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  told reporters in Tokyo that
officials are watching markets closely. Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  reiterated today in Tokyo that the government
will take decisive steps on currencies when necessary, Dow Jones
Newswires reported.  Vice Finance Minister  Mitsuru Sakurai  said policy makers
are taking steps to reduce Japan’s export dependence, and “how
foreign-exchange rates move as a result of that is something
that the market will decide.”  The yen’s climb today indicated little impact from the Bank
of Japan’s unexpected decision to lower interest rates two days
ago and set up a 5 trillion yen ($61 billion) asset-purchase
fund. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government is separately
compiling a stimulus plan of more than 4.8 trillion yen.  Japan’s yen sales came after countries from China to Brazil
and South Korea pursued steps to limit currency gains. Thai
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said yesterday in an interview
at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York that his nation may do
more to help exporters by relaxing limits on outflows of capital.  ‘No Choice’  “The question is why countries have no choice but to join
a currency devaluation race -- each country’s economy is
faltering and they want to boost their economy with exports,”
Sakurai told reporters.  Exchange rates are “sure” to be discussed, Canadian
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said yesterday before the G-7
gathering, which precedes annual meetings of the International
Monetary Fund and World Bank in Washington. “There are concerns
about interventions in currency markets.”  Currency wars between major countries could derail the
global economy’s recovery,  Olivier Blanchard , the IMF’s chief
economist, told Bloomberg Television in an interview today.  ‘Foolish’ Intervention  Igarashi, who was appointed to his post last month, is a
ruling Democratic Party of Japan politician who once cited
traders as saying Japan’s intervention efforts were “foolish.”
The 61-year-old lawmaker started out as a political reporter at
Jiji Press.  Noda said this week that he’ll explain last month’s action
to his counterparts at the gathering of G-7 finance ministers
and central bankers. The sales were criticized by Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs meetings of euro-
region finance ministers, and U.S. lawmakers.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday
Japan didn’t fuel international tensions when it intervened. The
Treasury chief said there’s a “damaging dynamic” at work in
currency markets as countries race to limit appreciation. When
asked whether he thought Japan had “set the fire” for this
dynamic, Geithner responded, “I don’t, no” in remarks at the
Brookings Institution in Washington.  Igarashi said he thinks Geithner and Noda “understand each
other” on issues including currencies.  In 2004, when his party was in the opposition, Igarashi
told parliament that traders were talking about the Japanese
government’s “foolish intervention,” because it appeared that
authorities were merely trying to use up the money allotted for
such action instead of stopping the yen’s appreciation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hitoshi Ozawa  in Tokyo at 
 Hozawa1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kyoko Shimodoi  in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  