-- June Budget Tax Change Means U.K. Child-Benefit Cut Will Hit More Families
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-10-07T11:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/june-budget-tax-change-means-u-k-child-benefit-cut-will-hit-more-families.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne ’s plan to stop welfare payments to higher-earning
parents will hit more families than the government estimated,
because of tax changes in the June budget.  Osborne set out his plans to end child-benefits payments in
2013 to any household with an earner in the higher 40 percent
income-tax bracket on Oct. 4. Statements from the Conservative
Party and the Treasury said 1.2 million families fell into the
category, and gave the threshold for the bracket as 43,875
pounds ($70,176) a year. That failed to take into account
Osborne’s plan, set out in June, to lower the threshold to about
42,375 pounds next year.  The error adds weight to suggestions that the decision to
end the payments was made at short notice. Prime Minister  David Cameron  apologized to voters on Oct. 5 for not having warned
them of the possibility during the campaign for the May 6
election. The BBC  reported yesterday  that ministers agreed on
the cut only at 6 p.m. the day before it was announced.  “I have to say it’s been a complete shambles,”  Ed Miliband , the leader of the opposition Labour Party, told ITV’s
“This Morning” show today. “People have been really worried
about it.”  The cut dominated the Conservative Party conference in
Birmingham this week and left Cameron on the defensive. It will
mean an end to payments to some stay-at-home-mothers, prompting
headlines speaking of their “fury” in the normally Conservative-
supporting Daily Mail and other newspapers. The step will save 1
billion pounds a year, the Treasury said on the day of the
announcement.  Tax Exemption  As part of the  coalition agreement  between the Conservative
Party and the Liberal Democrats, the government said it will
raise the amount of money people could earn before they pay tax
toward 10,000 pounds from 6,475 pounds.  Osborne announced the first move in that direction in his
budget, raising the amount by 1,000 pounds to 7,475 pounds from
April 2011. To ensure that this didn’t help higher earners, he
said the threshold for the higher rate of tax would be dropped
by about 2,500 pounds. If this is how further moves toward a
10,000-pound tax-free threshold are carried out, people might
enter the higher tax bracket, and lose their child-benefit
payments, with earnings of around 39,000 pounds.  The Treasury said it wouldn’t be commenting further on the
changes before its spending review is published on Oct. 20.  The Financial Times today reported that some spending cuts
may be delayed due to the cost of existing contracts. In a
statement, the Treasury said it was committed to eliminating the
U.K. structural deficit by 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 