-- New Zealand Seeks Foreign Companies, Investors to Drive New Dairy Futures
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-10-07T03:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/new-zealand-seeks-foreign-companies-investors-to-drive-new-dairy-futures.html
New Zealand, the biggest dairy
exporter, expects foreign traders and companies to use a futures
contract based on whole milk powder which starts tomorrow.  Global processors, food producers and commodities traders
are likely to join  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.  as the
“early adopters” of the new market,  Fiona Mackenzie , head of
markets at NZX Ltd., said in an interview. NZX, the Wellington-
based manager of the stock exchange, will run the new contract.  “We expect early trades to come from those large global
genuine hedgers, including dairy processors onshore and
offshore,” she said from Auckland.  NZX , using the futures
contract as a first step into derivatives, says volatility in
the global milk market is likely to encourage more participants.  The so-called winning first-contract price for regular New
Zealand whole milk powder at Fonterra’s  GlobalDairyTrade 
auctions, the reference point for the market, has ranged from
$2,900 to $4,130 a metric ton this year.  “You need volatility,” Mackenzie said. “We haven’t seen
any slowdown in terms of volatility in dairy this year. It’s
been a roller-coaster.” She spoke Sept. 27 and confirmed the
comments today.  To stimulate global interest, NZX has appointed FCStone
Group, part of International Assets Holding Corp., as a clearing
and trading participant. New Zealand brokerage  Craigs Investment
Partners Ltd.  will provide trading access for New Zealand
farmers and other local investors.  Cash-Settled  NZX has been developing the product for about two years,
ironing out specifications with traders and the regulatory and
clearing house requirements. The contract is in dollars per ton
for cash-settlement.  “Our feedback is that cash-settled is very attractive, and
everyone understands the reference price,” Mackenzie said. The
ability to settle for cash compares favorably with the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange’s skimmed milk powder futures contract which
requires physical delivery, she said.  Fonterra “intends to trade the NZX whole milk powder
futures contract at some point,” Bruce Turner, director
commodity risk & trading, said in an e-mailed statement today.
“We see this as a useful price risk management tool.” The
company declined to comment further.  “They will be subject to the same rules as anyone else,”
said Mackenzie, referring to Fonterra. “They are clearly very
supportive of transparent price discovery.  Futures  are another
way of getting transparent pricing.”  Fonterra is the world’s leading exporter of dairy products
and represents more than a third of international trade,
according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  