-- NYC Boosts Build America Sale on International Demand
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-10-07T18:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/new-york-city-boosts-build-america-sale-to-775-million-on-overseas-demand.html
New York City, whose comptroller,
 John Liu , went on a seven-day debt marketing trip to Europe, 
sold $775 million in taxable Build America Bonds, increasing 
the offering almost a fifth to keep up with demand.  Non-U.S. buyers accounted for as much as 40 percent of the
sale, according to  Alan Schankel , managing director of fixed-
income research at Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC, one of the underwriters on the deal.  “There is heightened international awareness of U.S. and
state municipal bonds, with a distinction on quality,” First
Deputy Comptroller  Eric Eve  said in an e-mail today. “The
strong global demand demonstrates confidence in New York City.”  The bulk of the sale, maturing in October 2037, was priced
to yield 5.52 percent, or about 180 basis points above  30-year
U.S. Treasuries . That compares with 30-year sovereign debt from
Spain, which yesterday yielded  4.87 percent , 119 basis points
above. New York carries third-highest rankings from the top
three credit rating companies, while Spain is one level higher
according to Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings. A
basis point is 0.01 of a percentage point.  The city last sold Build Americas in June, with bonds
maturing in June 2035 priced to yield 6.25 percent, or 214 basis
points above benchmark Treasuries. The so-called spread had
narrowed to 141 basis points in trading on Sept. 21, according
to Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board data.  International Appetite  International ownership of U.S. municipal bonds jumped 37
percent in the first half of the year from the end of 2009 to
$83 billion, a Sept. 17 Federal Reserve report shows. Spurring
the growth are Build America Bonds, created by President  Barack Obama ’s economic stimulus program to finance public-works
projects. Issuers of the debt are eligible for a 35 percent
subsidy on interest costs.  More than $140 billion of the debt has been sold in the 17-
month-old market. About a quarter may have been bought overseas
through June, according to  Matt Fabian , an analyst with Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors Inc.  Liu was visiting London and Zurich this week, accompanied
by a  Bank of America Corp.  executive, to boost investor demand,
and lower borrowing costs, for Build Americas the city is
selling.  About 66 percent, or $3.7 billion, of the city’s general
obligation, Water Authority and Transitional Finance Authority
debt has been issued as Build Americas, according to data from
the comptroller’s office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 