-- New York Will Ask Obama to Bar Food Stamps in Purchase of Sugary Drinks
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-10-07T18:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/new-york-will-ask-obama-to-bar-food-stamps-in-purchase-of-sugary-drinks.html
New York City and state officials
want the U.S. Department of Agriculture to ban the use of food
stamps to buy sugary soft drinks for two years to curb obesity-
related diseases among the city’s poor.  Sugar-sweetened beverages are “the largest single
contributor to the obesity epidemic,” Governor  David Paterson 
and Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said in a joint statement in advance
of a City Hall news briefing today. Obesity is almost twice as
prevalent among the city’s poorest households as in the
wealthiest, they said.  The state’s office for disability assistance intends to ask
the USDA to exclude the drinks from the list of items that can
be purchased with food stamps, a welfare  program  that started in
1964, the statement said. The ban, requested by both the state
and local governments, would affect only the city.  “The use of food stamp benefits to support the purchase of
sugar sweetened drinks not only contradicts the intent of this
vital program, but it also subsidizes a serious public health
epidemic,” Paterson said in the statement. “There is clear
evidence that low-income individuals have higher rates of
obesity and are more at risk of becoming obese than other
groups.”  Fat Costs Big  Obesity-related illness costs New York state residents
almost $8 billion annually, or $770 for each household,
according to city and state health officials. Overweight or
obese adults compose 57 percent of the city’s population, they
said. Almost half, or 46 percent, of the 22,300 people
hospitalized for obesity-related diabetes each year live in low-
income neighborhoods, the statement said.  The proposal “will only have an unfair impact on those who
can least afford it,” the  American Beverage Association , an
industry group in Washington, said in an e-mailed statement.  “There is nothing unique about the calories in sugar-
sweetened beverages -- which include flavored waters, sports
drinks, juice drinks and teas -- to justify singling them out
for elimination from eligible purchases in the food stamps
program in New York City,” the association said in its
statement.  Heavy Kids  Almost 40 percent of New York City’s public-school students
in kindergarten through eighth grade are overweight or obese,
including 46 percent of Hispanic students and 40 percent of
black students, according to the statement from Paterson and
Bloomberg. A child who consumes one sugary drink a day has a 60
percent higher risk of becoming obese than those who don’t, the
statement said.  In September 2010, 1.7 million New York City residents out
of 2.9 million statewide received food stamp benefits. USDA
surveys have estimated that 6 percent of nutrition-assistance
benefits nationwide are used to buy sugared soft drinks,
amounting to $75 million to $135 million a year in benefits
spent in New York City, the officials said.  The proposal for a ban is a “sensible request,”  Michael F. Jacobson , executive director of the Washington-based Center
for Science in the Public Interest, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The empty calories in soft drinks pose a major public
health problem by promoting tooth decay, obesity, diabetes and
other health problems,” he said. “It’s also the case that
those diseases have a disproportionate impact on low-income
Americans.”  Abandoned Effort  This year, Paterson proposed and Bloomberg supported a
half-cent-per-ounce tax on sugared drinks as a health initiative
that Paterson said would have raised $1 billion to help close
the state budget deficit. The governor abandoned the effort
after beverage-industry lobbyists persuaded legislative leaders
to oppose it.  “This is one of the most heinous examples of lobbying and
the way in which lobbying has affected and influenced the
outcome of what would have been needed budget changes,”
Paterson told reporters.  Richard Daines  and  Thomas Farley , the state and city health
commissioners, described the effort in an article in today’s  New
York Times .  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  