-- New Zealand Apologizes to India Over Television Presenter's Dikshit Remark
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2010-10-08T05:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/new-zealand-apologizes-to-india-over-television-presenter-s-dikshit-remark.html
New Zealand has apologized to India’s
External Affairs ministry over comments made by Television New
Zealand presenter Paul Henry about the chief minister of Delhi,
where the Commonwealth Games are being held.  India complained about offensive remarks from Henry on the
state-owned broadcaster’s Breakfast program, Foreign Minister
 Murray McCully  said in an e-mailed statement today. The protest
was lodged after Henry made comments about the pronunciation of
Delhi Chief Minister  Sheila Dikshit ’s name, the Dominion Post
newspaper reported. The correct pronunciation is ‘DIKS-it’.  “The actions of Mr. Henry in this case can only be
described as gratuitous and insulting,” McCully said. “It is
always regrettable when a prominent individual abuses the
freedom of expression, which is one of our basic rights, to
cause offence to others.”  India called in New Zealand’s High Commissioner and
conveyed to him that it “strongly and unequivocally” denounced
Henry’s remarks, the External Affairs ministry said in a
 statement  yesterday.  “It is shocking that such bigoted views have been aired by
a representative of a mainstream media organization of a multi-
ethnic democracy like New Zealand,” the ministry said. The
remarks were “totally unacceptable to India and should be
condemned by all right thinking people and nations.”  Suspended Without Pay  McCully confirmed that High Commissioner Rupert Holborow
has apologized for the remarks. Henry was suspended without pay
for two weeks on Oct. 5 over a separate and later incident in
which he asked Prime Minister  John Key  whether the country’s
next governor-general would be someone who “looks and sounds
like a New Zealander,” in reference to current Governor-
General  Anand Satyanand ’s Fiji-Indian heritage.  New Zealand’s apology “will sound hollow” if Henry
resumes his presenting position,  Keith Locke , human rights
spokesman for the  Green Party , said in a  statement . Henry’s
“racist comments have no place on New Zealand’s flagship
morning news and current affairs show,” he said.  Television New Zealand has statutory independence from the
government and any action against Henry is entirely a matter for
the company, or for the Broadcasting Standards Authority should
a complaint reach that body, McCully said.  Television New Zealand Chief Executive Officer  Rick Ellis 
said that Henry’s remarks about Satyanand were inappropriate for
anyone in the company to make.  “He is a provocative host who speaks his mind and that is
what many New Zealanders like about him,” Ellis said in a
statement on Oct. 5.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Phoebe Sedgman  in Wellington at 
 psedgman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  