-- Goldman Debuts in Rupee Debt as Nomura, Merrill Plan Sales: India Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 2010-10-08T08:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/nomura-debuts-in-rupee-debt-as-goldman-merrill-plan-sales-india-credit.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. are selling rupee-denominated bonds for the
first time, tapping unprecedented demand for Indian assets to
expand in Asia’s second-fastest growing economy.  The local-finance unit of Nomura, Japan’s biggest brokerage,
is raising 10 billion rupees ($226 million) issuing equity-
linked notes and commercial paper to fund lending, according to
an Oct. 4 report by Fitch Ratings. Goldman, the world’s most-
profitable securities firm, said in a statement last month a
Mumbai-based arm plans to offer 5 billion rupees of bonds. An
India venture of Bank of America Corp. is seeking to raise 10
billion rupees selling securities, Fitch said.  Brokerages are hiring bankers and boosting capital during
India’s busiest year for mergers, international bond sales and
stock offerings since 2007. The  extra yield  an issuer with top
AAA ratings pays for five years over government borrowing costs
has shrunk 23 basis points this year to 64 basis points.  “Rupee debt sales from global bond houses look set to rise
as they compete for a bigger share in India’s expanding
markets,”  Alok Singh , who helps manage the equivalent of $1.1
billion in Mumbai at Fortis Investment Management Pvt., said in
an interview yesterday. “Ratings are good now and investors may
also draw comfort from the standing of the parent companies.”  Cap Raised  India raised its cap on foreign ownership of rupee debt by
50 percent to $30 billion on Sept. 23 as demand surges. Indian
money-market funds attracted 171 billion rupees during the nine
months ended Sept. 30, up 122 percent from a year earlier,
Association of Mutual Funds in India  data  show.  Nomura, Goldman and Bank of America have added staff to
compete with local units of Citigroup Inc., Standard Chartered
Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc, three of the biggest foreign lenders
with at least 50 years of local-market presence.  Nomura declined to comment before the release of its
earnings report later this month, Rosie Slater, a spokeswoman
for the firm in Hong Kong, said in an e-mail.  Edward Naylor , a
Hong Kong-based spokesman for Goldman, declined to comment.  Relatively high yields have prompted foreign investors to
more than double their  holdings  of Indian government and company
debt this year to $17.3 billion as of Sept. 30, Securities &
Exchange Board of India data show. Three-month commercial paper
yielded 7.525 percent yesterday,  118 basis points  more than
similar-maturity Treasury bills, Bloomberg data show.  Relative Yields  India’s 10-year government bond yield of 7.985 percent is
the highest among major economies except Brazil, where similar-
maturity notes pay 11.96 percent. Comparable securities offer
7.69 percent in Russia and 3.33 percent in China and 2.38
percent in the U.S., Bloomberg data show.  Faster inflows helped the rupee surge almost 5.2 percent
against the dollar in the past month to 44.34 per dollar, the
best performance among Asia’s 10-most traded currencies,
according to Bloomberg data.  The South Asian nation’s economy grew 8.8 percent in the
second quarter, the fastest pace since 2007 and may achieve 9.7
percent expansion in 2010, compared with a July estimate for 9.4
percent, the International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 6.  Indian lenders are raising funds at home and overseas to
satisfy rising demand for loans.  ICICI Bank Ltd. , the second-
largest lender in India, hired three firms to help sell as much
as $1 billion of debt, three people familiar with the matter
said Oct. 5.  ICICI Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Mumbai-based ICICI’s debt fell to
207 basis points on Oct. 7, the lowest since May 13, after
ballooning to an all-time high of 1,794 on Oct. 27, 2008,
according to CMA Datavision in New York.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting $10
million of debt from default for five years is equivalent to
$1,000 a year. Default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  India’s  bank loans  grew by 5.6 trillion rupees, or 20
percent, in the 12 months through Sept. 10, according to data
published by the Reserve Bank of India. Outstanding loans and
advances totaled 33.8 trillion rupees. Credit growth averaged 24
percent in the past five years.  Companies raised 753 billion rupees from stock sales this
year, 5 percent more than the whole of last year, according to
Bloomberg data. Indian companies were buyers, sellers or targets
in 591 cross-border deals involving assets worth $59.2 billion
this year, the most since $69 billion in 2007.  Increased Trading  About $71 billion of bonds were traded last quarter in
India’s local market, the second-busiest in Asia after Hong Kong,
according to a survey compiled by New York-based Emerging Market
Traders Association.  Nomura Capital (India) Private Ltd., based in Mumbai, plans
to use the money raised for corporate bond trading and asset-
backed lending to companies. The principal will be protected and
returns will depend on the performance of equities, said Fitch.  Goldman Sachs (India) Finance Pvt. will provide similar
financing and trading, as well as underwriting services, Fitch
said. Goldman, which in March applied for a commercial banking
license in India, hired ICICI Bank’s Sonjoy Chatterjee in April
as managing director and co-chief executive officer of its local
business.  These will be the first rupee offerings for Nomura and
Goldman,  Ananda Bhoumik , senior director at Fitch in Mumbai,
said yesterday. Goldman’s unit also plans to sell 10 billion
rupees of commercial paper. Fitch gave AAA ratings to the Nomura
and Goldman units, as well as to Bank of America’s DSP Merrill
Lynch Capital arm.  ‘Favorable Market’  “These issuers are coming into a favorable market with
instruments that are generally attractive for investors,” said
Ninad J. Deshpande, who helps manage about $1 billion at Axis
Asset Management Ltd. in Mumbai. “Their cost of funds is higher
than for banks, so they are going into high-risk lending to make
the spreads.”  Standard Chartered, the London-based bank whose branch in
Kolkata opened in 1858, derived $624 million or 20 percent of
its group profit before tax in the six months through June 30
from India, making it the second-most profitable market globally
after Hong Kong, according to its semi-annual report. The firm
said in March it planned to expand its fixed-income team in the
country by 15 percent.  “The market will continue to grow and with gross domestic
product expansion, there are going to be more opportunities for
any newcomer, Nomura included,” Ashvin Parekh, a senior partner
and head of financial services practice at Ernst & Young in
Mumbai, said in an Oct. 6 interview. “There are segments in
India’s capital market that are far from saturation point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 