-- Non-Bank Companies Poised for Fed Scrutiny on Systemic Risk
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-10-07T19:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/non-bank-companies-poised-for-fed-scrutiny-on-systemic-risk.html
It has the makings of a Wall Street
parlor game: Guess which firms will be designated for Federal
Reserve oversight because they could pose a risk to U.S.
financial stability.  A council of regulators, which met for the first time
Oct. 1, will review non-bank financial companies for possible
inclusion under the Fed’s regulatory umbrella, taking into
account everything from size and debt to hidden liabilities,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Oct. 11 issue.  U.S. bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in
assets -- about 35 in all, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. -- are automatically included.  A large number of hedge funds, private equity firms, and
derivatives clearinghouses could also be considered. GE Capital,
General Electric’s financial arm, has said it expects to be
included. Its operations include the biggest issuer of store-
brand credit cards in the U.S., aircraft leasing, small-business
lending, and commercial real estate.  American International Group Inc., which during the 2008
crisis became the symbol of a lightly regulated conglomerate and
an inspiration for the new Financial Stability Oversight
Council, could also be included.  Geithner Suggested  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , the council’s
chairman, suggested both companies would be on the list when he
said on Sept. 30 that the Dodd-Frank law overhauling financial
rules imposes stricter oversight on entities “that are banks in
all but name, whether you call them investment banks, or AIG, or
GE Capital.” Such firms may be forced to “run with a much more
conservative, prudent leverage and funding mix,” he said.  Atlanta-based Intercontinental Exchange Inc., which owns a
derivatives trade-processing operation, and New York’s
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which completes stock trades,
may be tapped, say former Treasury officials, regulatory
lawyers, and analysts.  Citadel LLC, the Chicago-based hedge fund that is the
biggest shareholder in E*Trade Financial Corp. and has a small
investment bank, could come under scrutiny. So could Blackstone
Group LP, the world’s largest buyout firm, they say.  Companies that consumers heavily depend on, including
insurers and credit-card companies, might also come under
heightened inspection. Though they aren’t exempt, mutual funds
may escape review because they typically take on less risk than
hedge funds. Citadel, AIG, Blackstone, and the clearing firms
declined to comment.  Cost or Benefit  It’s unclear whether Fed supervision will be a cost or a
benefit. “Investors may perceive you as being so carefully
watched that you’re a safer investment, and that reduces your
cost of funds,” says  Wayne Abernathy , an executive vice
president at the American Bankers Association, a lobbying group
based in Washington, and former Treasury official. “The
downside is a certain amount of new, heavy regulatory burden
comes with it.”  Rules about how the designations will be made are due in
spring. A 30-day public comment period on the rules began Oct.
6. It may be a challenge for the council to ignore public
opinion when deciding who falls under the new regime.  “There’s going to be a lot of controversy once they start
doing this, and the decisions will be very difficult to
defend,” says  Hal S. Scott , a Harvard Law School professor.
“When the first one is designated,” he says, “everyone’s
going to ask why them and not us, or why us and not them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Paula Dwyer at 
 Ppdwyer11@bloomberg.net  