-- Norilsk Seeking to Double China Share, Sell to ETFs
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2010-10-07T13:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/norilsk-seeks-to-double-share-of-china-s-nickel-market-sell-metal-to-etfs.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the world’s
biggest supplier of the metal, plans to double its share of the
Chinese market as profit from sales to Asia’s largest economy
outstrips earnings in  Europe .  Norilsk plans to provide as much as 40 percent of  China ’s
nickel imports, up from 20 percent, Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Victor Sprogis said in an interview in Moscow, without
giving a timeframe. As demand for metal grows from financial
investors, the Russian company is also ready to offer copper and
nickel to funds that hold them as investments, he said.  “We’d like our share in China to grow because it is the
most dynamic market and we see that pace continuing next year,”
Sprogis said. “China’s growth is underpinned by demand at the
end-user level.” Europe’s demand is led by restocking, he said.  Russia’s increasing commodity exports to China are helping
the two forge what President  Dmitry Medvedev  called their “best
ties” historically. Medvedev visited China last month to
oversee the signing of orders to supply the East Asian country
with oil, coal and nuclear reactors. Norilsk CEO Vladimir Strzhalkovsky, accompanying Medvedev, said China bought a record
25 percent of the company’s output last year, which includes
copper, cobalt and palladium.  China last year imported 247,032 metric tons of unwrought
nickel, a metal for batteries and stainless steel, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Traffic to China  Norilsk sold China 30,000 tons of nickel in 2008 and about
60,000 tons last year. About 74 percent of Russia’s exports to
China were natural resources, while 68 percent of Chinese
imports to  Russia  were machines and technical equipment,
according to the  Federal Customs Service  in Moscow.  Increasing traffic to China spurred Norilsk to send one of
its five ice-breaker ships on a maiden voyage to  Shanghai  via
the northern, Arctic Sea route last month. The trip cuts the
time of delivery from Norilsk factories, located above the
Arctic Circle, by more than a month compared with the current
route to China via Europe.  Russia’s largest mining company will divert some metal from
the European market to meet China’s appetite, Sprogis said,
adding that Europe will remain its biggest sales space for now.
Norilsk, which generally aims to provide 20 percent of a
nation’s nickel imports, in line with its global market share,
is raising that target for China and India, he said, without
saying what it will be for  India .  ‘Economically Effective’  “Now we can say that our deliveries to China are as
economically effective as our sales to Europe and in some cases
even more so,” Sprogis said on Oct. 4 at Norilsk’s head office
in Moscow.  This year’s 32 percent rally in the price of nickel, which
accounts for about half of Norilsk’s revenue, may continue as
the company sees a “positive price trend” at least through the
end of the first quarter of 2011, Sprogis said.  Prices gained after the global economic recovery bolstered
demand and some producers were forced to rein in output.  Vale
SA , the world’s fourth-biggest nickel company, suffered strikes
at its Sudbury and Voisey’s Bay projects in Canada this year.  “We judge the outlook for the nickel market for the next
three to six months to still be positive given the slow ramp-up
of new nickel projects coming next year and the strong recovery
of stainless-steel production worldwide, especially in the  Asia 
market,” Bonnie Liu, an analyst at Macquarie Securities, said
in an Oct. 4 report.  Record Palladium  Norilsk is also enjoying the 47 percent rally this year in
palladium, which has outpaced both gold and silver. The metal
rose to $604 an ounce today, its highest price since 2001 as
investors sought protection from a weakening dollar and physical
demand for the metal used in exhaust systems increased. Norilsk
accounts for half the global supply and owns 51 percent of U.S.
palladium maker Stillwater Mining Co.  Norilsk is “well positioned” to benefit from rising
prices, Otkritie Securities Ltd. said in July. “Strong demand
from China and a gradual recovery of western economies will
support further base-metals prices growth,” the brokerage said
in a note.  Consumer demand is being underpinned by that of financial
investors, whose interest will only grow, Sprogis said. That
allows for the creation of so-called exchange-traded funds in
nickel and copper, and Norilsk is ready to supply them with
metal, he said.  Metal-Holding ETFs  That would broaden the range of metal-holding ETFs,
currently centered on gold and palladium.  ETFs are index-based investment products that allow traders
to buy or sell shares of entire portfolios of stock in a single
security. United Co. Rusal, owner of 25 percent of Norilsk and
the world’s biggest aluminum producer, has said ETFs owning
aluminum may appear as early as this year.  “The entities trying to set the ETFs up are trying to
figure out right now how interesting these products will be;
will they have enough liquidity?” Sprogis said. “Since ETF
metal holdings are transparent, we would be happy to work with
those funds.”  The 36 percent jump in copper prices over the past 12
months to $8,250 a metric ton leaves Norilsk less optimistic, on
concern the price is too volatile. The company provides about 3
percent of global supply and plans to get 35 percent of its
revenue from the metal by 2025, up from 26 percent last year.  ‘Market Instability’  “If we see that the price is many times above the cost of
production, it cannot be considered stable,” Sprogis said.
“I’m not sure the market’s financial participants have enough
experience to consider the consequences of market instability.”  A commodity that may help Norilsk diversify risks is
potash, Sprogis said. “Diversification is interesting, and
potash would be no less interesting for us because it doesn’t
correlate with our main metals.”  Interest in producing potash, a form of potassium used in
fertilizer, has risen as an expanding global population boosts
demand for food, putting strain on crops. Russia, Belarus and  Canada  hold 80 percent of the world’s potash reserves.  Rusal’s billionaire co-owner Oleg Deripaska today repeated
calls for Norilsk to review its strategy, including the way it
sells products. Norilsk said in August it declined an offer from
Glencore International AG, a Swiss trader with an 8.6 percent
stake in Rusal, to take over the miner’s nickel sales.  Norilsk doesn’t plan to transfer any of its metal sales to
a trader as it’s unclear where the benefits lie, Sprogis said.
“Glencore can’t add value to the fundamental parameters” of
pricing, such as metal quality and servicing, he said.  “What could be done is the creation of an illusion of
deficit,” Sprogis said. “But, such illusions are harmful for
producers and the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  