-- Obama Stumps for O'Malley in Rematch of Maryland's Gubernatorial Contest
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-10-07T21:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/obama-stumps-for-o-malley-in-rematch-of-maryland-s-gubernatorial-contest.html
President  Barack Obama  told the
audience at a campaign event for Maryland’s Democratic governor
that the success of his agenda is at stake in November.  Obama sought to rally some of the same voters who supported
him two years ago on behalf of Governor  Martin O’Malley  and
Democratic congressional candidates seeking re-election less
than a month from now.  “I’m going to need you just as fired up as you were in
2008,” Obama said at Bowie State University in the suburbs of
Washington. “Our victory in that campaign, that wasn’t the end
of the road, that was the beginning.”  The rematch in the gubernatorial contest between Democratic
incumbent O’Malley and former Governor  Bob Ehrlich , the
Republican who lost his job to O’Malley four years ago, is among
the most closely watched gubernatorial contests in the country.
Obama and Democrats are seeking to generate more enthusiasm
among supporters to limit Republican gains in races nationwide.  “One of the issues that scares the O’Malley campaign is
the prospect of very low African-American turnout,” said  James Gimpel , associate professor of government and politics at the
University of Maryland in College Park. The 52-year-old former
congressman Ehrlich is depending on “an energized base with
lots of crossover voters,” Gimpel said.  Bowie State is located in Prince George’s County, Maryland,
which has a population that is 65 percent black, according to
the  Census Bureau .  ‘Snake Oil’  Obama again went on the attack against Republicans, saying
their campaign platform, called the “Pledge to America,” is
the “same old snake oil they’ve been peddling for years.”  Obama has been campaigning around the country as
Republicans are threatening Democratic majorities in the Senate
and House. He’s traveling to Illinois tonight to raise money for
Democrat  Alexi Giannoulias , who’s running for Obama’s former
Senate seat.  There also are 37 gubernatorial elections next month, and
Obama wants O’Malley, 47, to maintain a power base in the state
capital for the once-a-decade redrawing of congressional
districts.  Ehrlich was governor from 2003 to 2007, when he was the
first Republican to head the state since 1969. Maryland’s
Democrats outnumber Republicans about 2-to-1 in registrations.
The state gave Obama 62 percent of the vote in 2008.  Democratic State  The race had been in the toss-up column for much of the
summer until polls in the solidly Democratic state began showing
O’Malley pulling ahead in the past week.  A Rasmussen poll Oct. 4 showed O’Malley with an 8-point
advantage over Ehrlich. The survey of 750 likely voters had a
margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.  A Washington Post survey published Sept. 29 gave O’Malley
an 11-point advantage. That poll taken Sept. 22-26 among 1,196
registered voters has an error margin of 3.5 percentage points.  “I have it as a tossup; I put a little thumb on the scale
for O’Malley, but he’s going to have to fight for it,” said
 Jennifer Duffy , editor of the non-partisan Cook Political Report
in Washington.  Duffy said Obama is campaigning for O’Malley for the same
reason he’s made trips elsewhere: to counter apathy among
Democratic voters.  “Maryland should be one of those places where it’s easy to
fire ‘em up,” Duffy said. “If Obama can rally the party
faithful a little bit, that could make a really big difference
for O’Malley.”  Education, Spending  O’Malley is campaigning on spending for education, a
program to create 5,700 jobs at the Port of Baltimore, tax
credits to hire the unemployed and trimming the size of state
government. Ehrlich, for his part, says the state “remains in
an $8 billion hole” even after tax increases and federal
stimulus money, and that the tax burden must be reduced.  “Clearly, you can’t count on the huge surge in voting when
Obama was on the ticket in 2008,” said Adam Hoffman, professor
of political science at Salisbury University in Salisbury,
Maryland, referring to the black voters and young voters who
helped propel Obama’s presidential campaign.  The O’Malley-Ehrlich race is going to be won or lost in
more diverse countries that are evenly split. “That’s where the
battleground’s going to be,” he said.  O’Malley may also benefit from the state’s unemployment
rate of 7.3 percent, which is lower than the  9.6 percent  rate
for the U.S. as a whole.  “Clearly, that’s going to inoculate O’Malley somewhat
again this Democratic, anti-incumbent mood you see with a lot of
voters,” Hoffman said.  About three dozen people fell and were treated by
paramedics at the rally, local radio station WTOP reported,
citing a spokesman for the county’s fire and emergency medical
services department. People fainted or became dizzy, the
spokesman, Mark Brady, told WTOP. The temperature was 73 degrees
Fahrenheit (23 Celsius).  At least two people fainted in sight of the president, who
called for a bottle of water and medical help from the podium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Bowie, Maryland, at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  