-- Obama May Try to Woo Business as P&G, Blackstone Vent
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n ,   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-10-07T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/obama-may-seek-detente-with-alienated-companies-as-p-g-blackstone-vent.html
Last fall,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  showed White House staff a chart
comparing the percentage of cabinet secretaries and top aides
with business experience under administrations going back to
Teddy Roosevelt. President  Barack Obama  had the fewest by far.  The president’s relationship with business wasn’t helped
with the departures of Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  and National
Economic Council Chairman  Lawrence H. Summers . Executives often
consulted the two aides, even if at times the lines of
communication weren’t clear.  “The fundamental problem is the sense the president
doesn’t consider business a noble profession,” said  Steve Reinemund , former  PepsiCo  Inc. CEO and now dean of the Wake
Forest University School of Business.  Democrats close to the administration say the White House
wants to make amends, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Oct.
11 issue. “I have every expectation as we go through the next
several months that we are going to see a greater involvement
with business than we have seen in some time,” said  Tom Daschle , the former Senate Democratic leader and an Obama ally.  The changes may include Obama’s backing of proposals to
temporarily cut payroll taxes, which may save companies
billions, according to company executives, economic advisers,
and White House aides. If his deficit commission in December
recommends a debt-shrinking package of spending cuts and tax
code changes, including corporate tax reform, Obama may support
it, the people say. The White House may also consider naming a
CEO to a Cabinet job if one opens up or may give someone whom
business finds credible the role of counselor with a wide-
ranging portfolio, they say.  P&G to Caterpillar  Companies from  Procter & Gamble Co ., the world’s largest
consumer-products producer, to  Caterpillar Inc. , the largest
maker of construction and mining equipment, have gone public
with their criticisms of the administration.  Stephen Schwarzman ,
CEO of  Blackstone Group LP , likened the administration’s efforts
to double taxes on the income of private equity firms such as
his to “when Hitler invaded Poland in 1939,” according to a
New York Post account of a private meeting. Schwarzman
apologized for the comparison while maintaining his criticism of
the tax proposal.  “The business community is about as alienated from a
government as I have ever seen it,”  Mort Zuckerman , the 73-
year-old chief executive officer of  Boston Properties Inc ., said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television on Sept. 10.  The Bloomberg Global Poll last month found 77 percent of
U.S.-based Bloomberg subscribers say Obama is too anti-business,
and his favorability among the 1,408 investors worldwide is down
to 49 percent from 73 percent in July 2009.  ‘Suffocating’ Entrepreneurs  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the biggest business lobbying
group, issued a  list of regulations  imposed by Obama on health
care, energy, the environment and labor that it says are curbing
hope for an economic recovery.  “The regulatory impact on the business community is
pervasive, insidious, and needs to be exposed,” Chamber
President Tom Donohue said in a speech in Des Moines, Iowa. “It
is suffocating the entrepreneurial spirit.”  Companies’ main complaints center on Obama’s efforts to
overhaul rules for Wall Street, raise taxes on overseas income,
tighten environmental reviews and rework pending free-trade
agreements. It’s a breadth of hard feelings not seen since
 Franklin Delano Roosevelt  presided over the New Deal in the
1930s, said  Bruce Buchanan , a professor of government at the
University of Texas in Austin.  “It was similar for FDR, which was the period of the last
great re-regulation of the economy,” said Buchanan, who is
writing a book on presidential accountability. “And there is an
element of hurt feelings to it as well, which surprises me.”  Rouse Accessibility  Peter M. Rouse , Obama’s new chief of staff, who has few
business connections after spending most of his career managing
the staffs of Democratic lawmakers, plans to be more accessible
to corporate executives, Daschle says.  “I don’t think there’s any question that he’s aware of
that criticism and aware of the need to be more interactive and
engaged with the business community,” said Daschle, Rouse’s
former boss. “I would not be surprised at all if you saw
evidence of that quite soon.”  Despite numerous meals with business leaders, the president
seems to approach the relationship in a detached fashion, as if
he were checking off a box, say executives who requested
anonymity in order to speak freely.  Austan Goolsbee , the
president’s top economist, will try patching up relations in an
Oct. 13 meeting in New York with business leaders.  Unemployment, Profits  By some measures business has been thriving. While August
U.S. unemployment was 9.6 percent,  corporate profits  rose to a
record $1.37 trillion from April through June, according to the
 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis . Banks posted their biggest
profit in almost three years in that same period, according to
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average is up more than 37 percent since Obama took office.  “There is a venerable tradition of business being
antagonistic to Democrats, even in instances when the policies
are advantageous to them,” said  Fred Greenstein , a professor
emeritus at Princeton University and author of books on
presidential leadership. “You never get everything you want.”  That might describe Obama’s proposals last month to give
companies tax breaks for research and capital investments, an
idea that the White House pointed out has been supported in the
past by Republican economists and the Chamber.  In this instance, the Chamber and the Business Roundtable,
a group of senior executives, disavowed Obama’s plan within
hours. The tax cuts would be offset by increases in overseas
taxes and cuts in mining subsidies, they complained.  IBM, Caterpillar  International Business Machines Corp .,  Caterpillar  and P&G
are among the companies opposing Obama’s proposals to raise
taxes on profits from outside the U.S. A bill that Obama signed
in August to close a loophole would cost companies $10 billion.
Other proposed changes might cost companies billions of dollars
more.  “The administration is basically advocating an increase in
foreign earnings taxes for U.S. multinationals that we think is
absolutely counter to what we should be pursuing as a country,”
 Honeywell International Inc . Chief Financial Officer David
Anderson said in an interview with Bloomberg’s Tom Keene.  Exxon Mobil Corp ., the biggest U.S. oil company, is
fighting a provision in the financial overhaul bill Obama signed
this year to require that oil and gas producers disclose
payments they make to governments.  Obama praised the measure in a speech in New York Sept. 22.
While it supports the goal, Exxon says the rule would put U.S.
companies at a disadvantage to their foreign counterparts.  ‘Less Competitive’  “We think it makes us less competitive with non-U.S.
companies who aren’t subject to the same requirements,” said
 Alan Jeffers , an Exxon spokesman.  In some cases business leaders say they have been more
ignored than harmed. IBM said it would analyze health-care
spending, at no cost to the government, to hunt out fraud,  Sam Palmisano , the company’s CEO, said at a conference in New York
on Sept. 14. The White House wouldn’t sign on to the plan.  “We offered to do it for free to prove a point, and they
turned us down,” Palmisano said. “Our recommendations weren’t
aligned with the priorities of the administration. Their
priority was not to reduce fraud and improve productivity. It
was to increase coverage.”  The Obama administration also has cut off access for
Mexican trucks to the U.S., which violated the North American
Free Trade Agreement and prompted Mexico to retaliate with
duties on $2.5 billion of American-made imports.  The result? P&G stopped making Crest toothpaste for the
Mexican market at a plant in Iowa, shifting production south of
the border,  Robert McDonald , the chief executive officer of P&G,
said in an interview.  “Congratulations, Mr. President,” McDonald said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  