-- Chamber's Donohue Says Obama `Suffocating' U.S. Business Spirit
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-10-07T19:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/obama-suffocating-u-s-business-spirit-chamber-of-commerce-leader-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration is imposing regulations that are “suffocating
the entrepreneurial spirit,” the head of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce said.  Tom Donohue , president of the largest U.S. business group,
said the Chamber is starting a new political campaign today
against rules on health care, finance, the environment and
labor. The Chamber has said it will spend $75 million backing
pro-business candidates in the November elections and has led
growing business criticism of Obama in recent months.  “The regulatory impact on the business community is
pervasive, insidious, and needs to be exposed,” Donohue said in
prepared remarks for a speech in Des Moines, Iowa. “It is
suffocating the entrepreneurial spirit.”  Donohue’s efforts contrasted with an initiative today from
the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation, which published
a database of government statistics on 400,000 companies it
found are exporting jobs. The competing complaints from business
and labor reflected the election-season debate over how to
revive the U.S. economy.  Running against free-trade deals and sending jobs abroad is
a key to rounding up votes, especially among older women and
independent voters, according to a memo issued yesterday by
Democratic pollsters Stan Greenberg and  James Carville .  ‘Corporate Traitors’  “Stopping outsourcing is the solution people are talking
about all over the country,” AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka 
told reporters today. “Working people will now have the ability
to separate the economic patriots from the corporate traitors at
the ballot box.”  Both of the Washington-based organizations said they are
starting websites to share their information. The Chamber’s site
tracks rules it views as stunting economic growth. The site is:
 http://www.thiswaytojobs.com/ .  The Chamber, which will also run advertising on the theme,
listed a series of regulations being considered by the
Environmental Protection Agency as causing businesses to curtail
new investments or expansion plans. Among them were radon rules
for drinking water, lead-paint rules in building renovation and
revisions to regulations on underground storage tanks.  Trumka said that many of the regulations opposed by the
Chamber are necessary to reverse a trend of financial
deregulation that’s gone on for decades.  “What the last 30 years has shown us is that there is a
necessary level of regulation so that Wall Street and the rich
can be held in check,” Trumka said. The Chamber’s approach “is
what we did and this country went into a financial tailspin.”  State, Federal Data  The AFL-CIO’s new website is a compilation of state and
federal data showing companies that the labor group says are
shipping jobs abroad. The site is:
 http://www.workingamerica.org/jobtracker .  The union says it wants lawmakers to rewrite trade
agreements and raise taxes on companies’ overseas income in
order to curb what it says is an accelerating trend of companies
shifting production to China and other nations.  Asked about Donohue’s criticism today, White House
spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said the Chamber’s failure to disclose
the companies donating to its political advertising was his
concern.  “The donors that have gone into contributing to those ads,
the identity of those individuals or groups should be known,”
Gibbs said. “I’m not generally concerned with what he’s saying,
no.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  