-- Obama Rejects Notary Bill Amid Foreclosure `Caution'
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-10-07T19:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/obama-will-veto-notary-recognition-bill-on-possible-abuse-in-foreclosures.html
President  Barack Obama  won’t sign
legislation that critics said would have eased the way for banks
to process home foreclosures, his spokesman said.  The bill would have required courts to recognize
notarizations across state lines, including electronic
signatures. White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said the
administration was concerned about the potential impact on home
 foreclosure  proceedings.  “Out of an abundance of caution, and to ensure that those
unintended consequences don’t harm consumers, the president will
send the bill back,” Gibbs said.  Obama’s “pocket veto” puts to an end, for now, a five-
year effort by some of the nation’s 4.8 million notaries to
streamline court proceedings involving notarized documents. The
Interstate Recognition of Notarizations Act for years had won
approval from Democrats and Republicans in Congress as a piece
of mundane, good-government legislation.  The measure was approved by the House without fanfare in
2006 and 2007 only to languish in the Senate. The bill from
Representative  Robert Aderholt , an Alabama Republican, passed
the Senate Sept. 27 by  unanimous consent  and drew attention this
week when Ohio Secretary of State  Jennifer Brunner  sent out a
campaign fund-raising e-mail calling the bill “dangerous” and
urging Obama not to sign it.  In her e-mail, Brunner said the Senate approved the bill
just as banks suspended hundreds of thousands of foreclosures
after borrowers and courts raised questions about signatures on
legal documents.  Timing  “It sounded innocuous to me, but then I started looking at
the timing of the bill,” Brunner wrote in her Oct. 5 e-mail.  Ally Financial Inc .,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Bank of
America Corp . have suspended foreclosures or evictions in 23
states where courts have jurisdiction over home seizures. At
least seven state attorneys general are looking into the issue,
and the companies are reviewing affidavits and other loan
documents that might have been signed without being examined
first.  Notaries public administer oaths and serve as an impartial
witness when documents are signed. They are governed by state
law, and lawfully notarized documents in one state are not
always recognized by others. Questions about the validity of
notaries also have been raised in foreclosures.  Coincidence  Aderholt sponsored the legislation after a constituent, a
court stenographer, relayed issues he had heard time and again
during trials, spokesman Darrell Jordan said.  “It is purely coincidence that this whole bank
notarization fraud comes up now,” Jordan said in a telephone
interview.  Timothy Reiniger, who worked on the legislation as
executive director of the National Notary Association in
Chatsworth, California, said he is disappointed at the furor it
has aroused.  “Notary issues don’t tend to get a lot of interest,”
Reiniger said in a phone interview from Richmond, Virginia,
where he is now director of the digital services group at the
firm FutureLaw. “It’s totally coincidental. It had nothing to
do with banks.”  Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a
Vermont Democrat, had supported the bill after being buttonholed
by notaries at a September event in Washington honoring  Calvin Coolidge , a U.S. president from Vermont and the only one sworn
into office by a notary public.  No Objections  No lawmakers had objected to the legislation, Leahy said in
a written statement.  “Now that concerns have been raised, Congress should re-
examine whether this bill might have had an unintended impact on
foreclosures,” Leahy said.  When Congress is adjourned, as it is now, the president may
withhold his signature on legislation to prevent it from
becoming law. Obama last used a pocket veto on Dec. 30, 2009,
for an appropriations bill that was rendered unnecessary by
subsequent legislation, according to the White House.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  