-- London Leads House Prices to Two-Year High, Survey Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/london-leads-house-prices-to-two-year-high-acadametrics-says.html
U.K. house prices rose to a two-year
high in September as demand picked up in London and the property
market showed signs of peaking, research company Acadametrics
Ltd. and LSL Property Services Plc said.  The average price of a home in England and Wales rose 0.2
percent from August to 223,965 pounds ($357,000), the highest
since July 2008, the companies said in an e-mailed statement in
London today. Values were up 7 percent from a year earlier.  The International Monetary Fund said this week that U.K.
house prices look “high” and may face a “correction,” and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc ’s Halifax unit said yesterday that home
values dropped the most since at least 1983 last month. Analysts
in today’s report predicted that their index will show annual
declines in most of England and Wales by December.  “People know that imminent public-spending cuts will hit
their household finances,” David Brown, commercial director of
LSL Property Services, said in the statement. “While we won’t
see a ‘double-dip’ in the housing market, we don’t expect market
activity or house prices to continue their upwards march in the
short term.”  The increase in house prices last month came as the number
of transactions rose 3.4 percent from August to about 66,000,
according to the report. That’s an increase of 11 percent from a
year earlier, Acadametrics and LSL said.  “Historically, transactions slow in September, but there
has been a welcome increase in activity this year compared to
last,” Brown said. “The London market has been particularly
active, with sustained investment from foreign investors and
cash-rich buyers fuelling an increase in transactions.”  Halifax, IMF  Recent reports have indicated that the British housing
market may face renewed weakness as the government prepares the
biggest budget squeeze since World War II. Halifax said
yesterday that house prices plunged 3.6 percent in September,
and the IMF said on Oct. 6 that policy measures might not be
enough to support the market.  There is “little evidence” of an expected seasonal upturn
in transactions before the end of the year as concerns over tax
increases, job cuts and credit availability curtails demand from
potential buyers, Acadametrics Chairman  Peter Williams  said in
the statement. A reluctance to accept lower selling prices is
also deterring sellers from putting their properties on the
market, he said.  “There is little to suggest an upturn in activity or
prices while all of this works through,” Williams said.  Acadametrics uses methodology employed by the U.S.
S&P/Case-Shiller price index, combining initial housing
transaction data from the Land Registry and results from other
price measures to produce an estimate for the most recent month.
That number is then revised in following months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  