-- Hong Kong Air Kills More Than SARS, Pressuring Tsang
-- B y   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-10-08T00:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/hong-kong-pollution-killing-more-than-sars-as-tsang-prepares-policy-speech.html
Hong Kong’s record roadside air
pollution is prompting health and business groups to step up
pressure on Chief Executive  Donald Tsang , saying the blight
kills more people annually than the SARS outbreak did in 2003.  As Tsang prepares to give his annual policy address next
week,  figures  updated daily by the  University of Hong Kong ’s
School of Public Health show air pollution this year may kill
more than twice the 299 who died during the SARS epidemic.  “This has to be the priority for the government,” said
 Joanne Ooi , chief executive officer of the advocacy group  Clean
Air Network , which drove a truck covered in black balloons
through the city last week to highlight the issue. “The impact
of roadside pollution on health is getting worse and it’s
extremely dangerous. There is no bigger problem in Hong Kong.”  Hong Kong’s roadside  smog , which was the worst on record
during the six months ended March and set another high in the
third quarter, is harming the city’s ability to attract top
talent, according to the  General Chamber of Commerce .  “You’ve got decision makers with families who could be
based in Singapore or Shanghai and they have to decide whether
they want to put their kids in school here,” said  Alex Fong ,
chief executive officer of the chamber, which has 4,000
corporate members in Hong Kong. “People in the business
community, particularly the expatriate community, are saying the
air in Hong Kong is not improving and that’s affecting their
ability to recruit.”  ‘Continuous Efforts’  The chief executive is still working on his Oct. 13 policy
address and his department can’t comment on its content before
the delivery, a written statement from Tsang’s office said.  “The government has been making continuous efforts to
improve our air quality and these efforts rank very high on the
priority list of the administration.”  Tsang said in January it was  unacceptable  that air quality
had reached “dangerous” levels one in every eight days last
year.  Progress has been made in tackling overall air pollution
and yearly measurements of some pollutants are falling, the
city’s  Environmental Protection Department  said in an e-mailed
statement on Sept. 24. Sulfur dioxide levels fell as much as 22
percent since 1999 after emissions from power plants were curbed
and cleaner vehicle fuels introduced.  University of Hong Kong figures show air-pollution-related
deaths fell to 830 last year, from 1,349 in 2004.  Roadside Smog  Hong Kong’s roadside smog during the six months ended March,
registered “very high” or “severe” 18.7 percent of the time.
In the third quarter the index hit “very high” at roadsides
9.3 percent of the time, government data indicated, another
record for the period. At those levels, the government
automatically  warns  Hong Kong’s 7 million people that anyone
with heart or respiratory illnesses should avoid prolonged stays
in heavy traffic areas. Roadside air pollution measured 100 at 8
a.m. today in the Central district, just under levels when a
health warning is triggered.  By Oct. 7, an estimated 582 people died this year from
illnesses related to air pollution, according to the Hedley
Environmental Index, a website run by the School of Public
Health at the University of Hong Kong. During the 2003 spread of
severe acute respiratory syndrome, Hong Kong was the world’s
second most-infected area after China, with 1,755 cases and 299
deaths.  Hong Kong’s smog is “a cancer on the attractiveness of
this place,”  Richard R. Vuylsteke , president of the American
Chamber of Commerce, said in April. “There should be the
wherewithal and willpower to address it.”  Unhappy Residents  Hong Kong people are the unhappiest in the world with their
air quality, with 70 percent of those polled expressing
discontent about the levels of smog, according to a Gallup
 survey  of adults in 153 countries released in April. The next
most disgruntled country was Chad.  The government has not updated air quality objectives since
1987 and current targets are less strict than World Health
Organization guidelines, said Mike Kilburn, environmental
program manager at the Hong Kong policy think-tank  Civic
Exchange .  “Current government targets to reduce pollutants are too
low,” Kilburn said. “They’re environmental and political
targets, not public-health targets.”  WHO Guidelines  The WHO guideline for ozone, found in roadside pollution,
is 160 micrograms per cubic meter an hour, compared with the
Hong Kong government’s  objective  of 240 micrograms.  The government said it’s assessing the results of a public
consultation on air quality objectives that ended in November.
Measures being considered include pilot “low-emission zones”
where the most-polluting vehicles would be barred and it is also
introducing laws to stop drivers running their engines while
parked, a government  report  said.  Tsang’s speech “will focus on the economy, just as it
always does,” said Stephen Vines, political commentator and
author of “Hong Kong: China’s New Colony.” “There will be a
mention of air pollution, but I think the government is high on
rhetoric and low on action in this area.”  Hong Kong’s air pollution is contributing to the deaths of
hundreds of people each year and target levels should be closer
to WHO standards, said  Wong Chit-Ming , associate professor at
the School of Public Health at the University of Hong Kong.  Death Estimates  “The estimates we give for the numbers killed through
illnesses related to air pollution are conservative,” said Wong.
“The problem particularly is roadside pollution. It can lead to
problems with lung functions in young children, to coughs,
cardiovascular and respiratory diseases and contribute to
serious illnesses like cancer,” he said.  Hong Kong children’s doctor Aaron Yu said that every time
the air pollution index reaches a high level, more youngsters
are brought to his hospital.  “A noticeably higher number of children will attend our
outpatients department with respiratory problems, asthma,
bronchitis or chest infections,” said Yu, 50, a consultant at
the inner city  Caritas Medical Center  in Kowloon. “You’ll
likely see the same effect on old people and other areas of the
population.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net ; 