-- Hong Kong Stocks Decline, Erasing Gain, as Exporters Drop on U.S. Job Cuts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-10-07T08:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/hong-kong-stocks-decline-erasing-gain-as-exporters-drop-on-u-s-job-cuts.html
Most Hong Kong  stocks  fell as
exporters declined after U.S. companies unexpectedly cut jobs,
sparking concern the economic recovery may stall.  Yue Yuen Industrial (Holdings) Ltd. , the world’s largest
supplier of branded athletic and casual shoes, and  Foxconn
International Holdings Ltd. , the world’s biggest contract maker
of mobile phones, fell at least 0.5 percent after a report
yesterday from ADP Employer Services showed U.S. employment
dropped in September by the most since January.  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. , billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s biggest company,
advanced 4.6 percent after BNP Paribas SA raised its share-price
forecast by 41 percent.  Five stocks dropped for every three that rose on the  Hang
Seng Index , which gained less than 0.1 percent to 22,884.32 at
the close. It swung between gains and losses at least eight
times.  The gauge surged 8.9 percent last month, the biggest
increase since July 2009, as government and industry reports
from the U.S. and China fueled confidence in the global economic
recovery. Stocks in the measure trade at an average 14.7 times
 estimated earnings , the highest level since January.  “On a three-month basis, investors should be more neutral
on equities, but over the next 12 months they should be
overweight,”  Michael Preiss , chief equities strategist at
Standard Chartered Bank, said on Bloomberg Television. “We’re
not expecting a double dip, but a more meaningful economic
slowdown.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares
of Chinese companies slid 0.3 percent to 12,738.07. Mainland
Chinese markets are shut until tomorrow for holidays.  Exporters Drop  Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index is looking
“overbought” and may decline after climbing to an 11-month
high yesterday, according to  Tacky Cheng , a technical analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong. The measure’s 14-day  relative
strength index  has stayed above 70 since Sept. 29, a level
considered by some analysts as a sell signal.  Exporters dropped after the ADP report showed employment in
the U.S. decreased 39,000 last month. A Labor Department report
tomorrow is expected to show the jobless rate increased to 9.7
percent from 9.6 percent, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Yue Yuen , which gets more than 30 percent of sales from the
U.S., dropped 1 percent to HK$29.05. Foxconn fell 0.5 percent to
HK$5.73.  HSBC Holdings Plc., Europe’s biggest bank, lost 0.4 percent
to HK$81.70. The lender’s stock  rating  was cut to “neutral”
from “outperform” at Mediobanca SpA because of the bank’s
declining dependence on faster-growing emerging markets.  Hong Kong IPOs  Among rising stocks, Hutchison Whampoa, which has
investments in ports and telecommunications-services companies,
jumped 4.6 percent to HK$74.35, the  biggest advance  on the Hang
Seng Index. BNP Paribas raised its share-price forecast by 41
percent to HK$100 and maintained its “buy” rating, saying most
of the group’s operations are seeing “substantial growth.”  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. , operator of Asia’s
third-biggest stock market, gained 1.8 percent to HK$162.80, its
highest close since May 2008, amid rising initial public
offerings in the Chinese city.  “The Hong Kong market is benefiting from increasing global
liquidity, and the IPOs in the city are attracting investors,”
said  Michiya Tomita , a Hong Kong-based fund manager at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees $65 billion
globally.  Forty-seven companies raised HK$145 billion ($19 billion)
through Hong Kong IPOs since the beginning of the year, 90
percent higher than a year ago, Bloomberg data showed.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index climbed 0.2 percent to
22,969.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 