-- Monsanto Bug-Killing Corn Benefits Conventional Crops
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-10-07T18:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/monsanto-s-bug-killing-corn-mostly-benefits-conventional-crops.html
Genetically modified corn produced by
 Monsanto Co.  and  DuPont Co.  has slashed populations of a crop-
eating pest in the U.S. Midwest, and most of the estimated $6.9
billion net benefit has accrued to conventional crops, a study
found.  Adoption of corn engineered to produce the insecticidal
protein Bt has cut populations of the  European corn borer  across
the Midwest since 1996, according to research published today in
the journal  Science . Declines range from 27 percent in Wisconsin
to 73 percent in Minnesota, the research showed.  Farmers in Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska and
Wisconsin have realized a $6.9 billion net benefit over 14 years
because of reduced corn-borer damage, according to the study.
About 63 percent of the gain went to conventional corn acres,
which enjoy less insect pressure without paying for costlier
modified seeds.  “That’s sort of the wow factor,”  Bill Hutchison , the head
of entomology at the University of Minnesota and lead author of
the study, said in a telephone interview. “We didn’t realize
until we started really adding it up over 14 years that that
two-thirds of the benefit is on the non-Bt corn acres.”  Farmers who plant Bt corn are required by regulators to
plant at least 20 percent of their crop with conventional seed
to prevent bugs from developing pesticide resistance, a program
that has so far been successful, Hutchison said. Because Bt corn
farmers must also plant conventional corn, they share in the
residual impact of nearby Bt corn plantings, as do organic
farmers and others who sow conventional grains, he said.  Less Insecticide  About 63 percent of the U.S. corn crop is modified to
produce Bt, the insect-killing protein derived from Bacillus
thuringiensis, a soil bacterium. The corn borer, a caterpillar
that metamorphoses into a moth, was accidentally introduced to
the U.S. in 1917.  “Farmers are asking, ‘If populations are low, do I still
need to pay for this Bt technology?’” Hutchison said. “Our
models also show that if they just stopped planting Bt corn, in
about 4 to 5 years the corn borers probably would come back.”  Two of the 15 researchers in the study are employed by
Syngenta AG and Dow Chemical Co., both of which produce Bt corn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net  