-- `Mood' Not There for Currency Accords, IMF Chief Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-10-07T16:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/mood-not-there-for-international-currency-accords-imf-s-strauss-kahn-says.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  dismissed chances of a return to
the currency accords of the 1980s and said the fund can help
member countries define policies that are coherent with a
balanced recovery.  “I’m not sure the mood is to have a new Plaza or Louvre
accord,” Strauss-Kahn told reporters in Washington today at the
start of the IMF’s annual meetings. The IMF has a role to play
“to have a better understanding of what should be done by each
party” and help foster “a consistent policy by the big
shareholders at the fund.”  Exchange rate intervention reached its heyday in September
1985 when the world’s five major economies signed the Plaza
Accord to weaken the dollar. The Louvre Accord was introduced
two years later to buoy the U.S. currency. The Group of Seven
hasn’t intervened in a coordinated way since September 2000 when
it rescued the euro.  Japan last month sold the yen for the first time in six
years to spur exports and economic growth, joining countries
across Asia and Latin America that have tempered gains in their
currencies against the dollar. Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  warned Sept. 27 of a “currency war” and said that his
government will buy all “excess dollars” in the market to curb
the real’s appreciation.  Strauss-Kahn said the term “currency war” is “maybe too
military,” though “it’s true to say that many do consider
their currency as a weapon and that’s certainly not for the good
of the global economy.”  Hopefully No War  John Lipsky , the No. 2 official at IMF, was asked about
Mantega’s remarks about a “currency war” and Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s characterization yesterday of a
“damaging dynamic” over pressures to weaken currencies.  “I certainly wouldn’t want to disagree with my good friend
the finance minister of Brazil, Guido Mantega, but hopefully
we’re not in a war,” Lipsky said in an interview in Washington
today on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness” with  Margaret Brennan . “I think what Secretary Geithner was talking about was
avoiding a destructive dynamic.”  “We need to maintain a broad-based collaborative effort in
setting economic policies in order to promote a strong,
sustainable and balanced recovery,” Lipsky said.  Undervalued Yuan  China is accused of artificially undervaluing the yuan,
having limited its gains against the dollar to about 2 percent
since a June pledge to make it more flexible. The country held
the yuan at about 6.83 per dollar two years prior to that to
shield its exporters from the global crisis.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  yesterday said a
“damaging dynamic” of large economies keeping their currencies
undervalued can cause quicker inflation and asset bubbles, and
restrict growth.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  yesterday reiterated his view
that a rapid increase of the yuan would hobble China’s economy,
dealing a fresh rebuke to U.S. and European calls for a higher
exchange rate.  As IMF members negotiate to give emerging economies more
clout at the institution, Strauss-Kahn said gained influence
will imply increased responsibility.  “If you want to be at the center of the system, which I
understand is a request by many big emerging countries that want
to have more say at the IMF, which is absolutely legitimate, it
goes also with having more responsibility on what you do, and
the consequences of what you do in the global economy,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  