-- Moody's Torres Doesn't See Rating Change for Argentina in the `Short Term'
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-07T18:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/moody-s-torres-doesn-t-see-rating-change-for-argentina-in-the-short-term-.html
Argentina’s sovereign debt rating is
unlikely to be raised in the “short term,” said  Gabriel Torres , an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.  Doubts about the accuracy of Argentina’s official
statistics, including  inflation  and economic  growth , are an
obstacle to the country achieving a better rating, Torres said
today at a seminar in Buenos Aires.  “If there’s something that would sum up the problem we
have in raising the rating for Argentina, it’s the fact that
there’s no confidence in the official numbers,” Torres said.
“That’s something that doesn’t happen in other countries.”  Moody’s has a B3 rating on Argentine foreign debt, six
levels below investment grade. The company hasn’t changed
Argentina’s rating since 2005, when the country reached an
initial restructuring settlement following the 2001 default on
$95 billion of bonds.  Economists and politicians including Vice President  Julio Cobos  and former Economy Minister  Roberto Lavagna  began to
question official statistics in early 2007, when then-President
 Nestor Kirchner  made personnel changes at the national
statistics institute. Kirchner said the changes were made to
“improve operations,” and the government has denied its data
are inaccurate.  Rapid Expansion  South America’s second-biggest economy has  expanded  an
average of 8.5 percent from 2003 to 2008 and grew 0.9 percent
last year, amid a global financial crisis that hurt the
country’s exports. The central bank says the economy will expand
9.5 percent this year, the most since 1992, fueled by a record
soybean crop, strong industrial production and domestic
consumption.  While Argentina’s statistics agency reported that consumer
prices rose in August 11.1 percent from a year earlier, former
Deputy Economy Minister Orlando Ferreres said real inflation is
running at 25 percent. The country reported 0.9 percent economic
growth in 2009, while Ferreres said there was a contraction.  “If you look at Argentine numbers, even with the doubts
about them, the country’s credit rating could be higher,”
Torres said. “Argentina doesn’t have structural problems that
limit the country to the current credit rating. There are
political decisions that can be resolved.”  Torres said that the existence of defaulted bonds that
weren’t exchanged for other debt in a June swap presents a legal
problem for the South American country if it wants to tap
international credit markets.  Restructuring  In June, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
restructured $12.2 billion in bonds that were held out of a 2005
exchange. Fernandez said in a speech in Germany yesterday that
Argentina seeks to restructure its defaulted debt with the Paris
Club group of creditor nations.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps has dropped 180 basis
points this year to 736 yesterday, according to data compiled by
CMA Data Vision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to debt accords.  Last month, Argentina’s credit rating was raised by
Standard & Poor’s, which said the country’s “strong” economic
expansion is helping it make debt payments.  S&P raised the foreign and local debt ratings one level to
B, in line with Bolivia and Honduras and five steps below
investment grade. The increase matches a move made by Fitch
Ratings in July.  The South American country has blocked the International
Monetary Fund since 2006 from making a so-called Article IV
consultation, a review of economic policies and data that every
member of the organization submits to on an annual basis. The
country has taken that stance since former President Kirchner
paid off about $9.5 billion in debt to the lender in early 2006.  “When you join the IMF, one of the things you agree to is
to do this, it’s one of the rules of the game,” Torres said.
Without the Article IV reviews, “there’s no control” on the
economy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  