-- 
Fitch Settles Suit by Calpers Over SIV Ratings; Deal Includes No Payment

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-08-29T19:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/moody-s-s-p-fitch-again-seek-dismissal-of-calpers-1-billion-rating-suit.html
Fitch Ratings Ltd. settled
negligence claims brought by the  California  Public Employees’
Retirement System’s over ratings it gave structured investment
vehicles that later collapsed, agreeing to provide Calpers with
documents from a similar lawsuit pending in  New York .  Under the settlement Fitch will make no payment to Calpers,
the biggest U.S. pension fund, said Daniel Noonan, a Fitch
spokesman. A notice of the settlement was filed Aug. 26,
according to state court records in San Francisco.  Calpers sued Fitch, Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and
Standard & Poors over ratings for three SIVs -- Cheyne Finance
LLC, Stanfield Victoria Funding LLC and Sigma Finance Inc. -- in
which Calpers invested $1.3 billion. Fitch will provide Calpers
with a copy of its deposition taken in February and other
documents it produced in a pending investor lawsuit against
Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s  filed by Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank
over the Cheyne Financie SIV.  Dismissal of Fitch from the California case “will
streamline the litigation against” the other two ratings
companies, Wayne Davis, a Calpers spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “The dismissal will not impact the case,” said Davis.
“Calpers can still fully recover its damages it if prevails
against Moody’s or S&P, which will not be able to avoid
liability through the Fitch dismissals.”  Fitch denied liability and settled “to avoid the cost and
expense of litigation,” according to the settlement agreement.  ‘Fitch Is Pleased’  “Fitch is pleased with the resolution of this case and the
disposition reached with Calpers,” Noonan said today in an e-
mail. Noonan declined to comment about other terms of the
settlement.  Calpers claimed in a July 2009 complaint it sustained $1
billion in losses from “wildly inaccurate” risk assessments of
three structured investment vehicles, or SIVs. The three ratings
services had given the SIVs their highest ratings. The
underlying assets of the three SIVs, known only to the SIVs and
the ratings companies, consisted primarily of risky subprime
mortgages, Calpers said in the complaint. Fitch is a unit of
Paris-based Fimlac SA.  A state court judge in  San Francisco  ruled in December that
ratings by the three companies are a form of free speech that is
protected under a California law designed to deter lawsuits
intended to chill public debate. In the next phase of the case,
Calpers must show that it’s likely to win on the merits of its
lawsuit to avoid having it thrown out.  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank alleged in a separate 2008
complaint that Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s “recklessly or
negligently” misled investors by placing investment grade
ratings on the Cheyne notes.  The case is Calpers v. Moody’s, 09-490241, Superior Court
of California, County of San Francisco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  