-- Overseas Buying of Indian Stocks to Be Sustained Amid Growth, Bhave Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-10-08T07:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/overseas-buying-of-indian-stocks-to-be-sustained-amid-growth-bhave-says.html
Record overseas buying of Indian
stocks is unlikely to reverse as an accelerating economy and
share sales by companies including the world’s largest coal
producer lure investors, the capital markets regulator said.  “We have no reason to believe, at least if we go by
historical evidence, that there will be a sudden reversal,”
 Securities and Exchange Board of India  Chairman  C.B. Bhave , 60,
said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV. For overseas investors
“it’s important that there is supply of enough paper”
otherwise asset prices may surge, he said.  International investors have bought $21.7 billion of Indian
equities this year, driving the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
 Sensitive Index  to near the highest level ever. Coal India
Ltd.’s share sale this month will add to the record 794 billion
rupees ($17.9 billion) raised by the nation’s companies this
year. The inflows helped the rupee gain 4.5 percent against the
dollar in September, the most since May 2009.  “India is clearly emerging as a key asset globally,”
 Prashant Jain , chief investment officer at HDFC Asset Management
Co., which manages $21 billion in assets, said on Oct. 6. “How
many economies are there in the world that are of our size,
growing at 8 to 9 percent, where neither the companies nor the
households are leveraged?”  No Restrictions  India’s government doesn’t need to restrict foreign
institutional or direct investment at this time, Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in Washington yesterday.  The International Monetary Fund on Oct. 6 raised its 2010
growth forecast for India’s gross domestic product to 9.7
percent from 9.4 percent, citing strengthening consumer
spending. Asia’s fastest growing economy after China expanded
8.8 percent in the three months to June.  “As long as India is on a growth path I don’t think we
should think of sudden reversals,” Bhave said yesterday.  India is considering allowing individual overseas investors
to directly buy stocks for the first time, easing a rule that
restricts investment to mutual funds, a finance ministry
official with direct knowledge of the matter said today.  Fund Flows  India’s stocks’ performance is closely tied to foreign fund
flows that last year helped drive the Sensex to its biggest
rally in 18 years. The largest outflow in 2008, amid the global
financial crisis, triggered the gauge’s biggest annual slump and
prompted Bhave to scrap rules that tightened controls on
unregistered funds. The Oct. 16, 2007, curbs on offshore
derivatives triggered a slump in stocks that halted trading and
ended eight straight weeks of Sensex gains.  Still, Bhave is tightening so-called know-your client rules
to stop overseas funds bypassing foreign-exchange and securities
rules. In a Sept. 30 statement, the regulator said 197 overseas
investors and 342 sub-accounts were barred from taking fresh
positions in the cash and derivatives markets for failing to
meet disclosure rules.  It’s “not acceptable” for funds not to know who they are
buying assets for, Bhave said yesterday.  The Sensex has  rallied  for a record seven straight
quarters. The gauge has increased 16 percent this year, making
it the best-performer among 10 of the world’s largest markets.  The government aims to raise $8.9 billion in the year
ending March 31 selling state assets including Coal India,  Steel
Authority of India Ltd . and  Indian Oil Corp . Coal India may
raise 150 billion rupees, two people with knowledge of the
matter said in August, making it India’s largest.  “There is enough room to support that kind of paper,”
Bhave said.  Bhave also said the regulator plans to cut time taken for
companies to start trading from the day they sell shares to
seven days from the current 10 to 12 days to improve
transparency, he said.  “The Indian market has a bright future,” Bhave said. “It
has demonstrated its  resilience  through this tumultuous period
of 2008-09 and then the subsequent reversal of that trend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  