-- Toyota Adding More Hybrids, Electric Vehicle Models to Boost U.S. Sales
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-10-07T02:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/toyota-s-president-says-it-will-add-more-hybrids-plugins.html
Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s
largest automaker, will introduce more hybrids, plug-in hybrids,
electric cars and fuel-cell vehicles to boost sales in the U.S.  Toyota also will offer a 25,000-mile, two-year free
maintenance deal in the U.S. on all Toyota and Scion-brand
models, the automaker said today in a statement on its U.S.
sales website. The move expands on the offer the company made
earlier this year of two years of no-cost standard maintenance
on Toyota-brand models.  The company, based in Toyota City, Japan, is adding more
products and service incentives as it seeks to regain market
share. Toyota posted the smallest increase in  U.S. sales  this
year through September among the top eight carmakers.  The automaker’s U.S. sales rose 1.1 percent to 1.3 million
units in the first nine months of 2010, compared with a 21
percent increase for Ford Motor Co. and 20 percent for Hyundai
Motor Co.  Toyota rose 1 percent to 2,981 yen in Tokyo trading as of
10:47 a.m. The stock has declined 23 percent this year.  The company also is investing more than $1 billion on a new
plant in Mississippi to increase production of Corolla compacts,
and it is increasing truck production as demand recovers, the
statement said.  Toyota is relying more on local designers and engineers to
tailor products for the North American market, it said.  Toyota is aiming for U.S. sales of 2 million units by 2013,
the Wall Street Journal reported today, citing a person it
didn’t identify.  Steve Curtis , a Torrance, California-based spokesman for
the automaker’s U.S. sales unit, declined to comment on the
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ian Rowley at 
 irowley2@bloomberg.net  