-- Pakistan Has Mixed Record Against Taliban, White House Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-10-07T18:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/pakistan-has-mixed-success-against-taliban-u-s-report-to-congress-says.html
Pakistan’s military, even before the
nation’s flooding, was having mixed success holding ground
against the Taliban and other insurgents on its ungoverned
northwestern border, a White House report said.  The flooding has led to a “military status quo” that
“could ultimately result in militant gains if extremist groups
remain undisturbed in their safe havens,” the report said.  The military during the first eight months of 2010
continued to avoid direct conflict with Afghan Taliban fighters
inside Pakistan or al-Qaeda forces in  Northern Waziristan , the
new report to Congress said. “Gross” human rights violations
continue, although there is evidence the military has made
“initial efforts to stop these abuses,” the study said.  The military’s response to the flooding affecting 20
million people has further disrupted operations and reinforced
the prevalent view that the Taliban is doing more than the
central government to provide relief, according to the 28-page
report by the National Security Council  The report, requested by the House and Senate Armed
Services Committees as part of the defense budget, covers U.S.,
Afghanistan and Pakistan political and military relations from
Jan. 1 to Aug. 20.  The Obama administration, in addition to authorizing 30,000
more troops for Afghanistan, is seeking more Pakistani military
operations to prevent the Taliban and al-Qaeda from crossing
into eastern Afghanistan. The White House scheduled a Dec. 1
review to determine whether U.S. strategy is working.  Strained Relations  Pakistan today continued the closing, since Sept. 30, of
the main border crossing used to supply NATO troops in
Afghanistan a day after the U.S. apologized for killing three
Pakistani soldiers in an air strike last month.  At least 2,500 trucks are backed up waiting to enter
Afghanistan, Khawaja Muhammad Khan, president of the nationwide
truckers body, said by phone from Peshawar in Pakistan’s
northwest.  Khan Pasand Khan, a government official in Khyber Agency,
confirmed there had been no order to allow trucks and fuel
tankers, dozens of which were set ablaze by militants in the
past week, to cross the Torkham border post.  U.S.-commanded NATO forces in Afghanistan crossed into
Pakistan several times last month, Pakistani officials have
said. The Obama administration in September quadrupled missile
strikes in northwest Pakistan against Islamic guerrilla groups
fighting in Afghanistan. The groups may be linked to what
Western governments say is a possible plot for terrorist attacks
in Europe.  ‘Slow Advances’  Pakistan has stationed as many as 140,000 military and
paramilitary personnel, or about 23 percent of the overall
force, in federally administered tribal areas,” the new White
House report said. “Through June 30, they disrupted insurgent
networks in some areas, including Bajaur and the Swat Valley,
and “largely held” these areas.  “It is notable that some of these areas had been
previously cleared on numerous occasions,” the report said.  The reinforced Pakistani military nonetheless is still only
“disrupting and displacing extremist groups without making
lasting gains against the insurgency,” the report said.  Pakistani operations have “advanced slowly” because the
military hasn’t demonstrated an ability to “stabilize areas
that have been cleared” and shift forces, the study said.  “Unless these challenges are overcome,” the government
“risks allowing the insurgency the opportunity to reestablish
influence over a population that remains skeptical of its
government’s staying power,” it said.  The floods that have covered 20 percent of Pakistan have
forced the Army to shift personnel from “clearing operations”
to holding land gained, the report said.  Pakistan Taliban fighters and other extremists so far have
also been limited by the flooding and haven’t capitalized on the
operational pause to seize more territory, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at  at
 acapaccio@bloomnberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  