-- Panasonic Said to Plan Return to Video-Game Market With Handheld Product
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2010-10-07T02:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/panasonic-said-to-return-to-video-game-market-take-on-nintendo.html
Panasonic Corp.  is developing a
handheld video-game player, returning to the market after more
than a decade to challenge  Sony Corp.  and  Nintendo Co. , two
company officials familiar with the matter said.  The Osaka, Japan-based company is developing a handheld
player code-named “Jungle,” the two officials said yesterday,
asking not to be named because the company hasn’t made the
information public. They declined to provide details such as
when the device will be unveiled and the price.  The electronics maker, which together with  Sega Sammy
Holdings Inc.  and  Atari SA  ceded the console market to Sony and
Nintendo, is looking to return to the video game industry
estimated to reach $20 billion in sales in the U.S. this year.
Besides its traditional rivals, Panasonic also faces competition
from games played using smartphones and tablet computers, such
as  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and iPad.  “A full-scale effort to come back to the games business
would be highly risky,” said  Jay Defibaugh , a games analyst at
MF Global FXA Securities Ltd. in Tokyo.  Panasonic’s clamshell device will feature a touchpad and
keyboard, TechCrunch  reported  on Oct. 4. The player will
specialize in online gaming, the blog reported.  “Jungle is an ongoing project that Panasonic is
pursuing,”  Kyoko Ishii , a spokeswoman at the Osaka-based
company said by phone yesterday, without elaborating. Ishii
declined to confirm or deny that the  website  cited by TechCrunch
is the official home page for the product.  Nintendo, Apple  Shares of  Panasonic  fell 0.7 percent to 1,144 yen as of
9:59 a.m. on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, while the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average remained unchanged.  Panasonic entered the video-game market in October 1993
with a $700 3DO video game console, a month before Atari Corp.’s
$249 Jaguar player. The last 3DO model went on sale in the
autumn of 1994, after which the business was discontinued, Naoto
Kishihara, a Panasonic spokesman, said yesterday.  Last month, Nintendo, the world’s largest maker of video-
game players, said it will begin Japan sales of a handheld
player capable of showing three-dimensional images starting in
February. It will be Nintendo’s biggest portable product debut
since the 2004 release of the touch-screen DS player.  Sales of video-game hardware and software will probably
reach as much as $20 billion in U.S. this year, market
researcher NPD Group Inc. said last month. The estimate
represents an almost twofold increase from  $10.3 billion 
generated in 2002, according to the researcher.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, last month added a
Game Center feature to the operating system of its iPhone and
iPod Touch devices that offers multiplayer games.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 