-- Papandreou Sees Greek Revival in Green Energy on Prison Island
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2010-10-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/papandreou-sees-greek-revival-in-prison-island-laboratory-for-green-energy.html
While Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  focuses on fixing his country’s economic crisis, his
vision of the future centers on a small, remote Aegean island
once used as a place of exile for political prisoners.  A year after winning power and inheriting a country mired
in the red, Papandreou is turning back to an election pledge to
go green. The idea is to use Greece’s sun and wind to help
propel an economy that required a 110 billion-euro ($153
billion) bailout from the European Union and International
Monetary Fund this year.  “Green and clean energy is a different growth model,”
Papandreou said during an Oct. 5 speech in Brussels. “I believe
that if we invest there, we will boost our economies.”  The premier has promised to make Greece the “Denmark of
the south.” He expects the industry to underpin an economic
revival that creates at least 200,000 jobs across the country
and generates 44 billion euros of investment by 2015. The
initial plan calls for turning Ai Stratis, eight hours by sea
from Athens with a population of 250, into the first Greek
island to run solely on renewable energy.  “New technologies associated with green development
constitute a unique chance,” said Nikitas Nikitakos, a
professor at the  University of the Aegean  who was commissioned
to assess Ai Stratis. “Whatever can be built in Greece with a
local added-value, contributes to overcoming the crisis.”  Energy Bureaucracy  The government pushed through a law this year to reduce the
approval time for renewable-energy investments to eight months
from three years. It also shortened the time it takes to get
authorization from the Greek energy regulator to two months from
as long as a year.  The legislation would help Greece achieve an EU target to
derive 18 percent of energy consumption from renewable sources
by 2020. The share was 8 percent in 2008, according to Eurostat,
the Luxembourg-based EU statistics office. In Denmark, the goal
is 30 percent, up from 19 percent.  Wind energy in Greece will account for about 83 percent of
installed capacity to meet the 2020 targets, data compiled by
research firm  ICAP Group’s  Athens office show.  “Our choice to move from an economy based on consumption
and borrowing to a productive model based on green development
is of strategic importance for our country and our children,”
the 58-year-old Papandreou said last month in a speech in
Thessaloniki, Greece’s second-largest city. “It is the main
weapon of course against climate change. It is also a lever for
change in our society.”  Skeptical Greenpeace  Organizations such as Greenpeace are skeptical. The
economic crisis has been an excuse to slow down the use of
environmentally friendly energy, said Greenpeace’s Greek
coordinator, Dimitris Ibraim, in a  statement .  The installation of renewable energy “has been slower than
expected” in Greece because of bureaucracy and an expensive
licensing process, according to the  European Renewable Energy
Council , the Brussels-based industry  trade  group.  From an economic standpoint, Greece will struggle to boost
its gross domestic product from renewable energy, said
Konstantinos Meghir, an economics professor at  University
College London  and Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut.  “Green growth is great, but it has to be driven by overall
growth,” Meghir said. “You need to build a future vision for
growth and that requires a lot of work.”  Greece’s government repeated its forecast on Oct. 4 that
GDP will fall 4 percent this year and 2.6 percent in 2011.  Distressed Area  In May, the EU and the IMF offered a 750 billion-euro
rescue fund for Greece and other so-called euro peripheral
nations to reduce the chances of a sovereign default. The loan
package imposed budget restraints on distressed euro-area
members. Governments in Greece, Spain, Italy and Portugal have
all pledged to step up deficit-cutting efforts.  The Ai Stratis project was originally  announced  by the
previous government in early 2009. Its implementation was
derailed by election campaigns ahead of last October’s vote,
which Papandreou won.  On the island, transport will be powered by electricity and
hydrogen. Geothermal pumps will be used for heating and
refrigeration in public buildings and farming will be organic,
according to the government’s plan.  Wind-park installations will provide 500 kilowatts of power
and solar energy for another 100 kilowatts, enough to meet at
least half of the island’s total estimated energy needs over the
next five years. The plan has an initial 8 million-euro budget.  ‘Pilot Program’  “This is a pilot program for change,” said Haralambos
Makris, who represents the Ai Stratis community. “Because of
its small size, this island is ideal as you can implement
quickly and control the developments.”  Islands of this kind will help boost exports, which will be
organic, and attract tourists, Makris said. Tourism accounts for
16 percent of Greece’s GDP and about one in five jobs, according
to the  World Travel and Tourism Council .  Greek islands depend on tourism and 13 expressed interest
in being the first “green island” in Greece when the plan was
initially announced two years ago, Makris said.  Ai Stratis, one of the islands used as exile points during
the military dictatorship of the 1970s, was picked because of
its small size of 42 square kilometers (16 square miles).  Public Power Corp SA , Greece’s biggest electricity
producer, has two units on the island. They will remain in
operation in case the renewable sources fail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Weeks  in Athens 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  