-- Paris Oil Drillers Target 100 Billion Barrels Near Brie, Wine
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-07T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/paris-oil-drillers-seek-100-billion-barrels-next-to-brie-farms-vineyards.html
Pierre Henry farms wheat and corn
east of Paris in an area famous for its Brie cheese. The next
big hit might be crude oil.  Henry’s farm, 78 kilometers (49 miles) from the French
capital, sits atop what geologists call the Paris Basin, an area
bordering Champagne and Chablis vineyards that struck oil in
1958. Henry leased a field to Exxon Mobil Corp. in 1985, which
drilled wells that have pumped for a quarter century.  These days  Vermilion Energy Inc. ,  Toreador Resources Corp. 
and partner Hess Corp. are targeting a bigger prize, oil trapped
in Paris Basin shale rock that was previously too hard to tap.
Techniques developed to pulverize rock and release petroleum
have revolutionized exploration and boosted U.S. natural gas
production 20 percent since 2006. Vermilion said it has had
“positive” results so far in the area.  “If the Paris Basin was in West Texas it would already be
drilled and would have pretty substantial production,”  Craig McKenzie , Toreador’s chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview in August.  Geology of the basin, a saucer-shaped rock formation
extending over 140,000 square kilometers (34 million acres), is
similar to the Bakken Shale in North America. While the Paris
Basin may hold 100 billion barrels, it’s unclear how much is
recoverable, according to the French Energy Ministry.  Last year, conventional oil output from wells around Paris
declined to about 10,000 barrels a day, a quarter of the peak in
1988. Shale oil production around Paris may rise to about 50,000
barrels a day by 2020, according to Bernstein Research.  ‘Positive Results’  New York-based  Hess  in May agreed to invest $120 million to
help Toreador, based in Paris, search 800,000 hectares (1.97
million acres). Toreador plans a well this year about 50
kilometers away from Henry’s farm near the Napoleonic battle
site of Chateau Thierry. Vermilion has over 176,000 acres and
plans further tests in the region.  Toreador shares have risen 52 percent in New York trading
since the agreement with Hess was announced on May 10, while
Calgary-based Vermilion is up 23 percent in New York. The Morgan
Stanley World/Energy index  has dropped  3.1 percent.  Vermillion’s well is “clearly encouraging” for Toreador,
Thomas Martin, analyst at Stifel Nicolaus who has an
“overweight” rating on Toreador, wrote in a June report. The
potential of shale oil production would provide “significant
upside” for Toreador shares, he said. Martin declined to
comment for this story.  Total Out  While smaller oil companies anticipate output,  Total SA ,
France’s largest oil company, looked at the area and declined to
participate.  “It didn’t appear to have geologically interesting
characteristics,”  Patrick Pouyanne , a senior vice president,
said in an interview this month. “It may turn out that we were
wrong,” he said.  Total has shale gas permits in southern France, Argentina
and Denmark and is looking at possibilities in eastern European
countries, he said.  The area has stirred excitement before, including in the
1980s when finds by  Total  and  Exxon  spurred a rush that even
triggered seismic surveys in 1986 on the Champs-Elysees in
Paris. That boom petered out after a series of dry wells and a
drop in oil prices.  Emerging Hotspot  The basin is an “emerging unconventional hotspot,”  Oswald Clint , senior analyst at Bernstein Research, said in a Sept. 27
report that forecast the potential quintupling in production in
a decade.  Toreador estimates its permits may hold as much as 90
million barrels of recoverable oil.  “The source rock is world class,”  David Burghardt ,
director of European exploration at Vermilion, said by phone
from his office in Parentis-en-Born in southwestern France.
“The challenge is how to extract it and how extensive it is.”  Shale drilling may prove controversial in France’s
agricultural belt because the technique blasts water and
chemicals into a well to break the rock underground.  The technique has met opposition in the gas-rich Marcellus
Shale running from New York to West Virginia. Since 2008, 1,785
wells have been drilled in Pennsylvania’s portion, while New
York regulators have placed a moratorium because of the
potential pollution of groundwater.  The shale oil around Paris may be located in a layer
between two rock formations that contain conventional oil. That
layer is more than two kilometers underground at the Champotran
field, where Henry’s patch is located, and more than one
kilometer from a freshwater aquifer, according to the minerals
agency.  “We don’t have an answer as yet as to whether the fluids
used to extract the oil will prove too expensive or harm the
environment,” said Christophe Rigollet, deputy head of geology
division at the government agency Bureau de Recherches
Geologiques et Minieres.  Genuine Rush  Oil exploration permits in France rose 50 percent by
surface area last year, and permit bids rose to 24 from 18, with
14 in the Paris Basin, according to the Energy Ministry’s annual
 report  in June. The ministry has opened for more permits,
including the Sezanne area near Champotran, where Toreador and
Vermilion are competing with six other companies, according to
the ministry.  “There’s a genuine rush,” said Rigollet at the ministry.
“About 30 companies have asked us for geological data on shale
oil in this region.”  Back on the ground, the looming boom has mostly gone
unnoticed. Patrice Caffin, 56, mayor of Jouy-le-Chatel, a
village that gets taxes from Champotran wells, said while he
wasn’t aware of the shale drilling he didn’t foresee much local
opposition.  “More oil would be a good thing,” said Caffin in an
interview. “We aren’t spitting on the money, that’s for sure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  