-- Penn, Leonard Green Said to Bid for M Resort Las Vegas
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-10-07T22:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/penn-national-leonard-green-said-to-bid-for-lloyds-s-las-vegas-m-resort.html
Penn National Gaming Inc.  and Leonard
Green & Partners LP have submitted offers for lender  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc ’s M Resort Spa Casino in Las Vegas, according
to people with knowledge of the sale.  Leonard Green’s bid is in partnership with the Marnell
family that built the $1 billion development and opened it in
March 2009, said two of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. The bidders have
submitted final offers for the 390-room resort after multiple
auction rounds, said the people.  M Resort is set to be sold for a fraction of its cost,
according to one of the people. The resort owes about $700
million to HBOS Plc, formerly the Bank of Scotland, which was
acquired by London-based Lloyds. Blackstone Group LP is advising
on the sale, the people said.  Representatives of Blackstone and Lloyds declined to
comment. A spokesman for Leonard Green didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  “While Penn maintains interest in establishing a presence
in Las Vegas, the company doesn’t comment on rumor or
speculation,”  Joe Jaffoni , a Penn spokesman, said in a phone
interview.  Penn National, based in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania, operates
23  casinos  and racetracks. Chief Executive Officer  Peter Carlino 
has said he wants to acquire a Las Vegas casino and that the
company is looking at most U.S. gaming assets that come up for
sale.  South of Strip  Leonard Green & Partners, a Los Angeles-based investment
firm, manages about $9 billion of equity capital, according to
its website. Its investments include fitness club operator
Equinox and  Whole Foods Market Inc. , according to the website.  Opened in the depths of record gambling and convention
declines in Las Vegas, M Resort was designed and built by CEO
Anthony Marnell III and his father,  Tony Marnell II , whose
Marnell Cos. construction company erected resorts including Rio,
Bellagio and Caesars Palace.  M Resort is located away from the heart of the Las Vegas
Strip, about 10 miles south of the Mandalay Bay casino on Las
Vegas Boulevard. It is surrounded by planned housing communities
that haven’t been developed beyond sandy subdivisions since
Nevada home prices plunged.  Sprawling Pool  M Resort includes 92,000 square feet of casino floor, seven
restaurants, six bars, 60,000 square feet of conference space, a
23,000 square foot spa and sprawling pool with an entertainment
piazza for concerts, according to its  website .  Lloyds is winding down or selling HBOS-owned assets at a
loss since agreeing to acquire Britain’s largest mortgage lender
in September 2008. The acquisition, encouraged by the U.K.
government, left Lloyds with 20 billion pounds of losses last
year alone. Through a 17 billion-pound ($27 billion) state
bailout, the government holds a 41 percent stake in the bank.  In mid-2009,  MGM Resorts International , the biggest casino
operator on the Strip, wrote off a $160 million loan to the M
Resort that it has the right to convert to half ownership.  MGM Resorts booked a $176 million charge, cutting the note
and accumulated interest value to zero “based on our review of
the operating results of M Resort” and reduced cash-flow
projections, according to a regulatory filing by the Las Vegas-
based company.  Las Vegas is one of the markets hit hardest by the housing
price collapse and the economic effects of the 2008-2009
financial crisis. Home prices in the area fell 57 percent
through July from an August 2006 peak, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller Single Family Home Resale Home Price  Index .  Unemployment in Nevada has outpaced the rest of the country
since July 2007 after five straight years below the national
rate. The state’s  jobless rate  was 14.4 percent in August,
compared with 9.6 percent for all of the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  