-- Nobel Prize Winner Vargas Llosa Urges Economic Sanctions for Dictatorships
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-12-07T19:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/peru-s-mario-vargas-llosa-wins-2010-nobel-prize-in-literature.html
Mario Vargas Llosa , the Peruvian
writer awarded the 2010 Nobel Prize in Literature, said
democratic governments should punish with economic sanctions the
dictatorships they often tolerate.  Vargas Llosa, who has accused Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  of trying to stamp out the country’s democratic
institutions and last year challenged him to a debate over the
direction of his Bolivarian revolution, described dictatorships
as “absolute evil” that should be fought with all means
governments have at their disposal.  “It is regrettable that democratic governments, instead of
setting an example by making common cause with those, like the
Damas de Blanco in Cuba, the Venezuelan opposition, or  Aung San Suu Kyi  and  Liu Xiaobo , who courageously confront the
dictatorships they endure, often show themselves complaisant not
with them but with their tormenters,” he said today at the
Swedish Academy in Stockholm, according to a transcript posted
on the academy’s website.  Vargas Llosa, 74, was awarded the Nobel Prize “for his
cartography of structures of power and his trenchant images of
the individual’s resistance, revolt and defeat,” the Swedish
Academy said when it announced the award Oct. 7. He has
previously called for diplomatic and economic sanctions against
authoritarian regimes in Chile, Cuba, Afghanistan, Iran, South
Africa, Myanmar and Peru.  ‘Time of the Hero’  Vargas Llosa’s literary breakthrough came with the 1963
publication of “The Time of the Hero” (La ciudad y los
perros), which drew from his experiences at military school and
was publicly burned by officers in Peru’s military. Other novels
include “The Feast of the Goat,” which portrays the
assassination of Rafael Trujillo, the Dominican dictator who
ruled the Caribbean nation from 1930 until his death in 1961.  Vargas Llosa said Latin America has made progress and for
the first time “we have a left and a right that respect
legality, the freedom to criticize, elections, and succession in
power.”  “That is the right road, and if it stays on it, combats
insidious corruption, and continues to integrate with the world,
Latin America will finally stop being the continent of the
future and become the continent of the present,” he said.  Vargas Llosa became more than a commentator on Peruvian
politics when he ran for the presidency in 1990 and lost to
 Alberto Fujimori , an experience he chronicled in his 1993 memoir
“A Fish in the Water.”  The 10 million-krona ($1.5 million) Nobel literature prize
was created in the will of  Alfred Nobel  and first awarded in
1901. Nobel, a Swede who invented dynamite, also set up awards
for achievements in medicine, physics, chemistry and peace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net  