-- Peru Central Bank Unexpectedly Keeps Rate Unchanged as Growth, Prices Cool
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-10-07T23:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/peru-central-bank-unexpectedly-keeps-rate-unchanged-as-growth-prices-cool.html
Peru’s central bank unexpectedly kept
its benchmark lending rate unchanged today as moderating
inflation allayed concern that South America’s sixth-biggest
economy is overheating.  The seven-member board kept the bank’s  reference rate  at 3
percent, matching only one of 16 economists’ forecasts compiled
by Bloomberg. Twelve analysts predicted a quarter-point rise and
three forecast a third straight half-point increase.  Five interest rate increases in as many months coupled with
greater fiscal restraint by the government will continue to damp
inflation pressures and slow economic growth to more sustainable
levels, said  Mario Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank Peru in
Lima. Peru last month posted monthly deflation of 0.03 percent
on lower costs for  food , fuel and phone calls.  “A good part of inflation this year has come from supply-
related factors, such as weather, harvest, fuel or wheat,” said
Guerrero, the only analyst surveyed by Bloomberg to correctly
predict today’s decision. “The trajectory of annual inflation
will slow in the remaining months” of this year.  Policy makers said in a  statement  accompanying their
decision that the move was based on economic data.  “This decision takes into account the recent trend in
inflation and its determinants, which suggests making a pause,”
they said.  Overheating Danger  Peru’s economy is no longer in danger of overheating, after
the bank raised the benchmark rate 1.75 percentage points this
year, central bank Governor  Julio Velarde  said Sept. 17. He
added that the bank may not need to be as “aggressive” at
today’s meeting.  Since the bank’s September policy meeting, the National
Statistics Institute on Sept. 15 said that gross domestic
product grew 9.1 percent in July from a year earlier,  lower than
analysts’ forecast  for 10.4 percent and down from 11.9 percent
in June.  Growth continues to abate, according to economic indicators
for August.  Cement  demand advanced more slowly than in July
while fishing, mining, and agricultural activity contracted,
according to the National Statistics Institute.  The pace of annual growth may have slowed to 8.7 percent in
the third quarter from 10.1 in the second quarter, according to
the central bank.  Government Stimulus  The government is winding down investment under its
stimulus package, which will lower the risk of demand-led
pressures sending consumer prices higher, BBVA Banco Continental
said Oct. 1. The  annual  inflation rate last month rose to 2.37
percent from 2.31 percent a month earlier, near the middle of
the bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range.  Rising inflows as well as increased company and government
spending propelled Peru to the  fastest GDP growth  since 2008 in
the second quarter. Concern that the expansion may be
unsustainable prompted the bank to increase its reference rate
in August and September by a half-point, up from a quarter point
at its three previous meetings.  Private investment continues to spur demand for credit,
which caused bank lending to rise 19 percent in August from a
year earlier, the fastest annual growth since April 2009.  The bank introduced new securities this week designed to
discourage investors from selling dollars in the local foreign-
exchange market, and to temper demand for the sol.  Bank Reserves  Last week’s increase in deposit requirements for a fourth
time since June signaled that while policy makers are uneasy
with surging credit growth, they are also concerned that higher
interest rates will draw more foreign capital into the country
and increase volatility in the sol, said  Daniel Volberg , an
economist at Morgan Stanley in New York.  Foreign capital inflows attracted by rising interest rates
helped push the sol up 3.6 percent against the dollar this year,
the fifth-best performance among the seven major Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank  purchased  $8.74 billion in the first nine
months of this year to temper the currency’s gains.  Speculation the bank will start to withdraw monetary
stimulus more slowly prompted the yield on Peru’s benchmark 8.6
percent sol-denominated bond due August 2017 to decline to an
eight-month low of 4.95 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  