-- Peru May Raise Rate to 3.25%, Slowing Pace as Prices, Economic Growth Cool
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-10-07T15:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/peru-may-raise-rate-to-3-25-slowing-pace-as-prices-economic-growth-cool.html
Peru’s central bank may slow the pace
of interest rate increases at its monthly meeting today as
moderating inflation allays concern that South America’s sixth-
biggest economy is overheating.  The seven-member board will probably raise the bank’s
 reference rate  by a quarter-point to 3.25 percent from 3
percent, according to 12 of 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
Three economists expect a third consecutive half-point increase,
while one analyst forecasts a pause. The board will announce its
decision after 6 p.m. New York time.  Consumer  prices declined  for the first time in 10 months in
September and the pace of economic growth is easing, giving the
central bank more time to move rates to a neutral level, said
 Daniel Volberg , an economist at Morgan Stanley in New York. Peru
posted monthly deflation of 0.03 percent in September on lower
costs for  food , fuel and telephone calls.  “You don’t have a significant inflation threat under
current conditions, and strong growth appears to be moderating
somewhat,” Volberg said in a phone interview. “Some of the
tightening will be done via reserve requirement hikes rather
than interest rate hikes.”  The central bank introduced new securities this week
designed to  discourage investors from selling dollars in the
local foreign-exchange market, and to temper demand for the sol.
Last week, policy makers increased deposit requirements for a
fourth time since June.  Peru’s economy is no longer in danger of overheating, after
five interest rate increases and slower growth in public
spending, central bank Governor  Julio Velarde  said Sept. 17. The
bank may not need to be as “aggressive” at today’s meeting, he
said at the time.  Growth, Unwind  July’s rise in gross domestic product was  lower than
analysts forecast , slowing to 9.1 percent from a year earlier
compared with 11.9 percent in June, as the government tempered
the pace of spending on public works and fishing output fell.  Growth continues to ease, according to economic indicators
for August.  Cement  demand advanced more slowly than in July
while fishing, mining, and agricultural activity contracted,
according to the National Statistics Institute.  The pace of annual growth may have slowed to 8.7 percent in
the third quarter from 10.1 in the second quarter, according to
the central bank.  The government is winding up investments under its stimulus
package, which will lower the risk of demand-led pressures
sending consumer prices higher, BBVA Banco Continental said Oct.
1. The  annual  inflation rate last month rose to 2.37 percent
from 2.31 percent a month earlier, near the middle of the bank’s
1 percent to 3 percent target range.  Rates, Inflows, Sol  Rising inflows as well as increased company and government
spending propelled Peru to the  fastest GDP growth  since 2008 in
the second quarter. Concern the expansion may be unsustainable
prompted the bank to increase its reference rate in August and
September at a faster pace than at its previous three meetings.  Private investment continues to spur demand for credit,
which caused bank lending to rise 19 percent in August from a
year earlier, the fastest annual growth since April 2009.  Last week’s increase in deposit requirements for a fourth
time since June signaled that while policy makers are uneasy
with surging credit growth, they are also concerned higher
interest rates will draw more foreign capital into the country
and increase volatility in the sol, Volberg said.  “The gradual slowing in economic growth and price rises
will be the trend for the coming months, because of the steps
taken by the central bank and the Finance Ministry, and the
statistical base,”  Mario Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank
Peru, said in a phone interview from Lima.  Foreign Capital  Foreign capital inflows attracted by higher interest rates
helped push the sol up 3.6 percent against the dollar this year,
the fifth-best performance against the dollar among the seven
major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  At 11:20 a.m. New York time, it rose 0.1 percent to 2.7880
per dollar.  The central bank  purchased  $8.74 billion in the first nine
months of this year to temper the currency’s gains, helping to
make the sol the tenth-worst performer among 25 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Speculation the bank will start to withdraw monetary
stimulus more slowly has prompted the yield on Peru’s benchmark
8.6 percent sol-denominated bond due August 2017 to decline to
an eight-month low of 4.95 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  