-- Petrobras Plunges to Lowest Since March 2009 on Concern Demand Exhausted
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-10-07T20:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/petrobras-plunges-to-lowest-since-march-2009-on-demand-concern.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA  fell to the
lowest price since March 2009, extending the worst performance
among the world’s biggest oil producers, on concern its $70
billion stock sale exhausted demand for the shares.  Petrobras, Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, slid 2.2
percent to 25.30 reais, the lowest price since March 3 last
year, at 4 p.m. New York time. The stock is down 31 percent this
year, more than the 27 percent plunge for BP Plc, the driller
that set aside $32.2 billion to pay for the worst oil spill in
U.S. history.  “The supposedly strong level of demand for the world-
record offer was in part an illusion,” said  Oliver Leyland , who
helps oversee $1.1 billion at Mirae Asset Global Investments
Brasil in Sao Paulo. “You had the government as the major
participant.”  The company, based in Rio de Janeiro, sold shares last
month to help finance its $224 billion, five-year investment
plan. Petrobras exchanged $42.5 billion in new stock in return
for the right to develop offshore crude reserves, helping the
government boost its stake to 48 percent from 40 percent.  Petrobras’s post-offering market value of $206.5 billion is
still lower than in December 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Its market value peaked at $308 billion in May 2008.  ‘Technical Demand’  Barclays Plc and  Itau Unibanco Holding SA  cut their
Petrobras ratings in the past week, saying profit will be
diluted by the share issue. Petrobras may be forced to sell
equity again as soon as 2013 should crude prices slump, further
diluting earnings, according to Barclays and Mirae.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said Sept. 3 the oil-for-
stock swap will be “the first of many” with Petrobras,
declining to provide further details.  The price of $8.51 a barrel set for last month’s swap may
be revised, Energy Minister  Marcio Zimmermann  said Sept. 2. That
adds “another level of uncertainty” as a price increase would
raise costs for Petrobras, according to Leyland.  Not including the government’s participation in the share
sale, “a good deal of that buying came from technical demand,”
Leyland said. “We’re talking about index funds or quasi-passive
funds.”  Petrobras’s preferred and voting shares together account
for 18.7 percent of the MSCI Brazil Index, up from 16.4 percent
before the offering, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The $11.5
billion iShares MSCI Brazil Index Fund, the biggest exchange-
traded fund tracking the nation’s stocks, is designed to provide
results that correspond to the MSCI measure.  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $34 billion as executive
chairman of Templeton Asset Management Ltd., said Sept. 24 that
the stock sale was an “abomination” that treated minority
shareholders unfairly and may signal share offerings are
overvalued.  Crude oil slipped from a five-month high today, dropping as
much as 2.7 percent. Petrobras has lost 8 percent this week,
falling for four days, the longest stretch since August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  