-- PGA Plays Sea Island as Oaktree, Starwood Prepare for Bankruptcy Auction
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/pga-plays-sea-island-as-oaktree-starwood-prepare-for-bankruptcy-auction.html
Less than 24 hours after the final
putt is holed at the inaugural U.S.  PGA Tour event  in  St. Simons
Island , Georgia, the course it’s being played on will be
auctioned off to the highest bidder.  The sale will mark the end of an era on the Georgia coast,
where homeowners include former U.S. Senator  Sam Nunn , 72, top
golfers and business leaders.  “Somebody is going to get a diamond for a cheap price and
polish it up,” said Sea Island resident  Davis Love III , the
1997 PGA Championship winner, who is serving as the host of the
McGladrey Classic that starts today.  The  Seaside Course , owned by the Sea Island Co., will be
one of four golf courses sold off during a bankruptcy auction
inside the Atlanta offices of King & Spalding law firm on Oct.
11. The company’s two hotels, spa, beach club and other resort
properties will also be part of the sale.  The resort, located on the southeast coast of Georgia just
north of the Florida border, agreed in August to sell most of
its assets to a group including New York-based Avenue Capital
Group and Oaktree Capital Management LP of Los Angeles for
$197.5 million, about half the amount the resort spent on a
massive renovation and development project in the mid-2000s. The
company has $1.16 billion in debts, according to its bankruptcy
filing.  Competing Bid  On Oct. 4, a partnership of Greenwich, Connecticut-based
Starwood Capital Group and Los Angeles-based Anschutz
Entertainment Group submitted an undisclosed competing bid. The
Starwood-Anschutz bid must exceed the Avenue-Oaktree offer,
under auction guidelines. The auction is required under federal
law so creditors can get the highest returns on their
investment.  “From what we understand, the auction is going to be
competitive,” Scott Ledbetter, president of  Sea Island Property
Owners Association , said in a telephone interview.  Love, who has served on the Sea Island Co. board for more
than a decade, was among those pleased that the auction will
have two groups bidding, possibly raising the price tag.  “There are obviously two groups who understand the value
and have the wherewithal to pull it off,” Love, 46, said in an
interview.  Ed Gellert, Senior Portfolio Manager for Avenue Real
Estate Strategy, didn’t return a telephone message seeking
comment; Howard Marks, Chairman of Oaktree Capital, had no
comment about the upcoming auction. Tom Johnson, a spokesman for
Starwood Capital group, didn’t immediately return a telephone
message seeking comment. Jim Moynihan, a spokesman for the
Anschutz Co., declined to comment.  Golf-Pro Residents  Until the sale is completed, residents of Sea Island and
adjacent St. Simons Island are seeking some relief by welcoming
many of golf’s top players, including  Matt Kuchar , the U.S. PGA
Tour’s money leader this season, and 2008 Masters Tournament
winner  Trevor Immelman . Some of the competitors, including
Kuchar, Love, and 2007 Masters champion  Zach Johnson , are
residents of Sea Island, which hosted  the Group of Eight Summit
in 2004 .  “We’re just happy this thing is coming,” said Russ
Marane, the 71-year-old president of  St. Simons Island Land
Trust . “Everybody wants to show off what we have here and
hoping for the best.”  With the sale looming, some residents worry that new owners
might disrupt the island’s elite but laid-back lifestyle. The
average home price on Sea Island is $1.7 million, according to
the Brunswick and Golden Isles Convention and Visitors Bureau.  “Foreigners,” Marane said with a laugh. “The thing people
are most concerned about is whether the culture of the community
and facilities changes.”  Fazio-Designed Course  Marane will be among about 1,200 residents volunteering at
the tournament, the second event on the U.S. PGA Tour’s Fall
Series schedule. He’ll be spending his days working at one of
the many concession stands at the  Tom Fazio  re-designed course.
Other residents will be picking up garbage or helping players to
locate errant tee shots.  Ledbetter, 59, moved to Sea Island in 2004 from Greenwich,
Connecticut. He has vacationed on the island since 1959 and will
be working as a marshal during the tournament, he said.  “It’s a nice thing to come to the area,” he said. “We
hope it works out and it’s here for future years.’  The tournament has a three-year sponsorship agreement with
Bloomington, Minnesota-based accounting firm RSM McGladrey Inc.
With only nine months to prepare for the event, corporate
support has been light.  “Most companies have already allocated their spending for
the year,” said Davis Love’s brother, Mark, who is helping
stage the event as executive director of the tournament. His
family moved to the area in 1977 when his late father came to
work as a golf instructor at the Sea Island Resort.  Additional Exposure  Only 30,000 tickets have been printed for the four days,
the same amount typically sold for one day at one of golf’s four
major tournaments. Tickets cost an average of $32.50 per day.
Without knowing what the final ticket sales are, Mark Love said
he can’t predict if the tournament will be profitable.  The event will be aired on Comcast Corp.’s Golf Channel
network, beginning today. While staging the tournament isn’t
likely to significantly boost the auction price, the event will
give the resort additional exposure outside of Georgia.  “It certainly doesn’t hurt,” said  Chris Marinac , an
Atlanta-based banking analyst at FIG Partners. “The fact that
they got that tournament, if anything, it aided the marketing of
the property.”  Mark Love said the timing of the auction is a “coincidence
that maybe we wouldn’t have wanted.” At the same time, the
tournament has “helped take folks’ minds off of it a little bit
and give them something positive to look forward to,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Buteau  in Sea
Island, Ga. at   mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  