-- Phillies' Roy Halladay Joins Larsen With Postseason No-Hitter
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-07T04:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/phillies-roy-halladay-joins-larsen-as-pitchers-with-postseason-no-hitters.html
After 12 years and almost 3,200
innings pitched,  Roy “Doc” Halladay  made his playoff
debut one to remember.  Halladay last night joined  Don Larsen  as the only
pitchers in Major League Baseball history to throw a
postseason no-hitter, carrying the Philadelphia Phillies to
a 4-0 win over the Cincinnati Reds.  As fans at Philadelphia’s Citizens Bank Park waved
signs that read “Welcome to Doc-tober” and “Playoff
Phever, Better Call the Doc!” Halladay mixed 
fastballs and breaking pitches to dominate a Reds
lineup that scored the most runs in the National League
this season.  “It’s just one of those special things I think you’ll
always remember,” Halladay said. “But the best part about
it is the playoffs take priority. It’s pretty neat for me
to be able to go out and win a game like that and know
there’s more to come for us and more to accomplish.”  Halladay, 33, had an eye on the postseason when he
joined the Phillies, who reached the World Series the past
two years.  A former first-round draft pick, Halladay spent his
first 12 seasons in Toronto, where he made six All-Star
teams, twice won 20 games and received the 2003 Cy Young
Award as the American League’s best pitcher. When October
rolled around and the playoffs began, though, the Blue Jays
headed home.  Halladay came to Philadelphia in a four-team trade in
December and signed a three-year, $60 million contract
extension. The 6-foot-6 right-hander then went 21-10 with a
2.44 earned run average, helping the Phillies win a fourth
straight NL East division title and earning the starting
nod in Game 1 of the playoffs.  Perfect Game  Halladay threw a perfect game for the Phillies in May
and manager  Charlie Manuel  said it was clear early in last
night’s game that his player, who threw first-pitch strikes
to 25 of 28 batters, was in total control.  “I’ve been in baseball 50 years, this is the first
time I’ve seen a guy throw two no-hitters in a year,” said
the Phillies’ 66-year-old manager. “Absolutely unreal.”  The Phillies opened a 4-0 lead after two innings and
Manuel said the Philadelphia dugout got quiet by about the
sixth inning, when Halladay’s teammates started thinking
about a possible no-hitter. Halladay followed the same
routine after every inning, walking to the end of the
dugout and sitting in a chair away from the rest of the
team.  “Nobody said anything, (we were) sitting there
watching the game. It’s pretty neat, really. It was great
managing,” said Manuel, eliciting a round of laughter from
reporters at his news conference.  One Walk  The only baserunner Halladay allowed was a two-out
walk on a full-count pitch to  Jay Bruce  in the fifth
inning. Halladay had a 2-2 count before throwing balls on
the final two pitches.  “Just one of those pitches that got away,” Halladay
said. “Wasn’t exactly where I wanted.”  It would be the only misstep by Halladay. As the outs
piled up, the sellout crowd of 46,411 in Philadelphia got
louder. Halladay called it one of the “most electric
atmospheres” he’s ever been in.  In the ninth inning, Halladay retired  Ramon Hernandez 
on a pop-up to second base and then got pinch-hitter  Miguel Cairo  to foul out along the third-base line.  With the Phillies’ fans standing, cheering and waving
towels, Reds leadoff hitter  Brandon Phillips  chopped a
ground ball in front of home plate. Catcher  Carlos Ruiz 
jumped up, grabbed the ball as it rolled against Phillips’s
bat and fired to first base for the final out.  Halladay’s Celebration  Halladay pounded his fist into his glove as Ruiz and
the rest of the Phillies ran to the pitcher’s mound to
celebrate.  Halladay said the enormity of his achievement had yet
to sink in. Larsen was the only previous pitcher to throw a
postseason no-hitter, with a perfect game for the New York
Yankees in the 1956 World Series. Halladay is the fifth
major league pitcher with two no-hitters in a year, the
first since Hall of Famer  Nolan Ryan  in 1973.  “These are the types of things that once the season
is over, I think you’re able to kind of soak it all in and
enjoy it,” Halladay said. “Right now it’s easy to keep
your focus on the team, especially at this point in the
season knowing we need a couple more wins here to move
on.”  Thanks to Halladay, the Phillies hold a 1-0 lead in
the best-of-five NL Division Series, taking a first step
toward a possible third straight World Series trip.  “It’s been everything that I hoped it would be,”
Halladay said of his playoff debut. “It’s something that
I’ve looked forward to, and obviously very glad I got the
chance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  