-- Philippines Keeps Main Interest Rate at Record-Low 4% as Inflation Slows
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2010-10-07T12:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/philippines-keeps-main-interest-rate-at-record-low-4-as-inflation-slows.html
The Philippine central bank kept
borrowing costs at a record low as easing inflation allows it to
support domestic demand, avoiding an interest-rate increase that
could lure more capital flows.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas left the  rate  it pays lenders
for overnight deposits at 4 percent for an 11th meeting,
according to a  statement  in Manila today. That’s the lowest
level since central bank data started in 1990. The decision was
expected by 15 of 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  “The BSP decision to keep interest rates unchanged seems
to be consistent with the stable inflation outlook,” said
 Jonathan Ravelas , a market strategist at Banco de Oro Unibank
Inc. in Manila. “Most likely, the next move in rates will come
in the first quarter of 2011.”  The Philippines has kept its key rate unchanged even as
neighbors from Malaysia to Taiwan raised borrowing costs this
year amid an economic rebound. Now, Asian policy makers are
shifting their focus to protecting the world’s fastest-growing
region from the threat of a slowdown in global expansion and
capital inflows that have caused their currencies to surge.  “Inflation is down and you don’t want to whack the
economy,”  Luz Lorenzo , an economist at ATR-Kim Eng Securities
Inc. in Manila, said before the report. “The concern right now
is liquidity which is potentially inflationary. There’s a lot of
foreign inflows especially to the stock market and the peso is
appreciating so much because of it.”  Inflation Forecast  Philippine  inflation  eased to a 10-month low last month,
with consumer prices rising 3.5 percent from a year earlier. The
central bank said today it expects price gains to be within its
targets through 2012, as it lowered its inflation forecast for
2010 to 3.8 percent from 4 percent.  “Inflation remains low even as demand has strengthened,”
the central bank said in a statement. “Global economic
conditions point to a tepid demand recovery, keeping a lid on
imported price pressures. Sustained foreign-exchange inflows,
which in part reflect a broader trend in capital flows in favor
of emerging market economies like the Philippines, also provide
a cushion to the domestic economy from imported inflation.”  The central bank will watch out for inflationary pressures
to ensure that its “monetary policy settings continue to be
appropriate,” it said.  Stocks Climb  Faster Philippine growth, which quickened to a three-year
high of 7.9 percent in the second quarter, is attracting
investors to the nation’s assets. The peso climbed to a two-year
high this week as the  benchmark stock index  rose to a record.  All of Asia’s major currencies, except the Hong Kong dollar
which is pegged to the U.S. currency, have strengthened this
year as overseas investors pumped money into a region whose
economies are outperforming those in the U.S. and Europe. Japan
last month intervened for the first time in six years to
restrain the yen and protect exporters, while China is resisting
calls to let the yuan rise faster. Thailand may relax limits on
money outflows, Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said yesterday.  The Philippine central bank is closely monitoring foreign-
exchange flows and is “ready to take action as appropriate and
necessary,” Deputy Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  said yesterday.  While Bangko Sentral will be “prone to act” on “wild swings”
in the currency, there is “no fundamental misalignment” of asset
prices in currency, real-estate and stock markets, Assistant
Governor  Cyd Amador  said in Manila today. The Philippines may
consider further relaxing its foreign-exchange rules to “make it
easier” for capital to flow out, she said.  Set for Growth  The Southeast Asian nation is set for faster growth and the
rising peso along with a record stock market index reflect the
returning confidence of investors, President  Benigno Aquino  said
in a speech today. Aquino, who took office in June, plans to
increase government spending next year to expand the economy by
7 percent to 8 percent  annually  from 2011.  Coca-Cola Co. said last week it would boost investments in
the Philippines by $1 billion over five years to expand its
production and distribution, as well as develop new products.  “Growth has been fantastic but there are questions about
its sustainability because of what is happening to external
demand,” said Lorenzo. “That’s precisely why you don’t want to
raise interest rates at this point.”  The Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 unexpectedly cut its benchmark
rate for the first time since 2008, while Australia and
Indonesia left their key rates unchanged on the same day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  