-- Republican Allies' Spending `Threat' to Democracy, Plouffe Says
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/plouffe-calls-spending-by-republican-leaning-groups-threat-to-democracy.html
Tax-exempt, Republican-leaning groups
that don’t have to disclose their donors are playing a central
role in this election and pose a “big threat to our
democracy,” a top political adviser to President  Barack Obama 
said.  With Republicans poised to make significant gains in the
Nov. 2 congressional midterm elections,  David Plouffe , Obama’s
2008 campaign manager, took aim at organizations including
Crossroads GPS, which is tied to Republican strategist  Karl Rove , and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which announced a new
campaign yesterday targeting Obama administration rules on
health care, finance, the environment and labor.  Such independent groups spent more than $39 million, mostly
on advertising, during the first four weeks of September,
outspending the two political parties combined, according to
Federal Election Commission reports. Many of the groups are
registered as nonprofits that don’t have to disclose their
donors.  “They are becoming the central financial actors in the
2010 election,” Plouffe told reporters in Washington yesterday.
“What’s happening out there is really a hijacking of our
democracy.”  Jonathan Collegio, a spokesman for the advocacy group
 American Crossroads  and its affiliate Crossroads GPS, said
Plouffe is applying a double standard.  “David Plouffe had no concerns when outside organizations
spent more than $400 million electing Barack Obama and the
Democrats in 2008, much of it undisclosed,” Collegio said in an
e-mail. “Democrats are getting demolished in the polls not
because of campaign regulations, but because voters desperately
want to put the brakes on the Obama agenda in the U.S.
Congress.”  Obama’s Attack  Independent political spending has become a recurring theme
for Obama at his campaign events, as the midterm elections
experience the impact of the Supreme Court’s 5-4 ruling last
January in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission. The
decision struck down federal limits on corporate political
expenditures, letting companies and unions spend money from
their treasuries to independently promote or defeat candidates.  When donations are made to groups that buy political
advertising in their own names, the identities of donors often
don’t have to be disclosed.  “The American people deserve to know who’s trying to sway
the election,” Obama said last night at a Chicago fundraiser.
“We need to fight their millions of dollars with millions of
voices.”  ‘Floodgates Are Open’  At a rally for Democratic Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley 
earlier yesterday, Obama told the crowd “the floodgates are
open” for unlimited spending by anonymous donors trying to
influence the vote.  Plouffe sought to raise expectations for Republicans,
saying party leaders including House Minority Leader  John Boehner  have defined success as taking control of the House and
Senate and winning every major gubernatorial race.  “When you’ve got winds this strong in your favor, that’s
the kind of election you need to have or it should be considered
a colossal failure,” Plouffe said.  He dismissed comparisons between this election cycle and
the 1994 midterm elections, during President  Bill Clinton ’s
first term, when Republicans won enough seats to gain a majority
in the House of Representatives for the first time in 40 years.  Plouffe said that, unlike 1994, there are large numbers of
Republican-leaning voters who are open to Democratic candidates.
He also said that Republicans are still tarnished by economic
policies that led to the worst recession since the Great
Depression. Republicans also aren’t offering a “fresh” agenda
as they did during Clinton’s first term, he said.  “We can certainly stave off the worst predictions,”
Plouffe said. “We have an opportunity to hold both chambers.”  Plouffe, who is serving as an outside political adviser to
Obama, declined to say whether he’d join the White House staff
after the November elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in New York at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  