-- Poland Offers $1.5 Billion Stake in PGE Utility to Help Cover Budget Gap
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-10-07T14:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/polish-government-offers-up-to-10-stake-in-utility-pge-term-sheet-shows.html
Poland is selling a stake in  PGE SA ,
the country’s largest power utility, changing its plans for a
second time this year as regulators’ opposition to another deal
threatens to limit revenue needed to cover the budget deficit.  The government is selling as much as 10 percent of Warsaw-
based PGE, terms of the sale obtained by Bloomberg News show.
The maximum stake was valued at 4.21 billion zloty ($1.49
billion) at yesterday’s closing price of 22.5 zloty.  The government has already signed deals to sell 20.7
billion zloty of assets, including the sale of fourth-largest
utility Energa SA to PGE for 7.53 billion zloty. Opposition from
the antitrust regulator, who says that transaction would
unfairly limit competition, could keep the ministry from
reaching its 25 billion-zloty 2010 asset-sale target.  “Looking at their budget needs it’s no surprise that
they’re offering this stake,”  Miroslaw Dziolko , who helps
manage the equivalent of $880 million at Millennium TFI SA in
Warsaw, said by phone. “It’s a good moment because of upbeat
market sentiment, and I wouldn’t be surprised if they decided to
sell shares in other companies as well.”  The Treasury Ministry said in February it would sell 10
percent of PGE, down from an earlier plan of as much as 24
percent. Minister  Aleksander Grad  said Sept. 7 the sale was
postponed to 2011.  Poland plans to sell assets for about 55 billion zloty from
2010 to 2013, according to a program published last month. The
bulk of the revenue will come from reducing the state’s stakes
in insurer  PZU SA  and the country’s largest bank by assets  PKO
Bank Polski SA  to 25 percent from 45 percent and 51 percent,
respectively.  Ministry ‘Confident’  Maciej Wewior , a spokesman for the ministry, said the
government is “confident” about reaching its revenue target.  “Privatization isn’t happening under any fiscal
pressure,” he said by phone today.  PGE  sank 4 percent to 21.6 zloty, the biggest intraday
decline since it started trading last year. The benchmark  WIG20
Index , which this week climbed to a two-year high, declined 1.4
percent today.  The sale opened yesterday and the books close tomorrow, the
terms show. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse
Group AG and UniCredit SpA are global coordinators for the
transaction. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., KBC Groep NV, PKO Bank
Polski SA, and Societe Generale SA are also acting as joint
bookrunners.  ‘Positive’ Sentiment  “It’s a very good time for the sale, as market sentiment
for share offerings is very positive,” said  Patryk Jablonowski ,
who helps manage the equivalent of $1.4 billion at Deka
Investment GmbH in Frankfurt. “The decision also is partly a
result of their financing needs.”  Poland holds 79 percent of PGE and is required by law to
keep its holding above 50 percent. The utility held Europe’s
largest initial public offering last year, selling a 15 percent
stake at 23 zloty apiece.  The cabinet on Sept. 29 approved a change in energy policy
to support PGE’s purchase of Energa, saying the takeover is
needed to help develop the country’s first nuclear power plant,
increasing energy security.  Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  plans this month to meet
 Malgorzata Krasnodebska-Tomkiel , head of the country’s antitrust
watchdog, to argue in favor of the deal, which she has opposed
in public comments since at least March.  If Tomkiel blocks the takeover PGE could appeal to the
courts, delaying the sale at least until next year. Her office
will have two months to analyze PGE’s application once it’s
filed, Maciej Chmielowski, a spokesman, said by phone today.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  