-- Portugal Braces for Its First Joint General Strike in 22 Years
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2010-10-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/portugal-to-face-first-joint-general-strike-in-22-years-over-wages-taxes.html
Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  will face the country’s first joint general strike in
22 years as the two biggest labor organizations prepare to
protest against the government’s austerity measures.  The UGT and CGTP groups agreed to call a general strike for
Nov. 24, a date proposed by CGTP on Oct. 1. The last general
strike by both labor organizations was in 1988. CGTP called a
general strike without UGT in 2007.  “The country is living a difficult situation,” UGT
Secretary-General  Joao Proenca  said yesterday at a news
conference in Lisbon broadcast by television station SIC
Noticias. “But it’s not possible that sacrifices are demanded
always from the same people.”  Portugal plans to cut the wages of state workers and raise
taxes to convince investors it can narrow the euro region’s
fourth-biggest budget gap after Greece’s debt crisis led to a
surge in borrowing costs for high-deficit nations. Greece and
Spain have also faced strikes and protests as their governments
try to push through measures to cut their budget shortfalls.  The government on Sept. 29 announced additional fiscal
measures for 2011 that Socrates  said will reduce spending by
3.42 billion euros ($4.75 billion) and increase tax revenue by
about 1.7 billion euros. The plan includes a 5 percent cut to
the wage bill for public workers earning more than 1,500 euros a
month, a freeze on hiring and an increase in the value-added tax
rate to 23 percent from 21 percent. Finance Minister Fernando
 Teixeira dos Santos  said the cuts were “painful.”  “If there is a strike that has a strong significance for
future generations, this is it,” said  Manuel Carvalho  da Silva,
secretary-general of CGTP.  Bond Yields  Since Teixeira dos Santos announced the additional
measures, the extra  yield  investors demand to hold Portugal’s
10-year debt instead of German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, has
narrowed to 401 basis points yesterday from a record 441 basis
points on Sept. 28.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis took hold at the end of 2009
after Greece’s newly elected socialist government said the
budget deficit was twice as big as the previous administration
disclosed. In April, Greece asked to tap an EU-International
Monetary Fund 110 billion-euro loan facility after being shut
out of debt markets. The EU then passed a broader 750 billion-
euro backstop for the rest of the euro region.  Economic Impact  Portugal’s government is seeking to cut the budget gap from
9.3 percent of  gross domestic product  in 2009, the fourth-
highest in the 16-nation euro region after Ireland, Greece and
Spain, to 7.3 percent this year and 4.6 percent next year. It
aims reach the European Union limit of 3 percent in 2012.  The cuts may hurt an economy that has barely grown for a
decade, with expansion averaging less than 1 percent annually
since 2000.  The Bank of Portugal yesterday said that the economy may
stagnate next year as the government cuts spending and export
growth slows. The projections don’t take into account the
deficit measures announced on Sept. 29, the central bank said.  Jorg Decressin , head of the International Monetary Fund’s
world economic studies division, on Oct. 6 said that GDP may
contract 1.4 percent next year because of the fiscal tightening.
The IMF had forecast stagnation in 2011 before the announcement
of the additional measures.  Standard & Poor’s also sees the economy shrinking next
year. It said on Oct. 4 that the country is unlikely to default
on its debt even as the economy fails to grow over the next two
years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 