-- Portuguese to Protest Plan to Use Toll Charges to Reduce Budget Deficit
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   J i m   S i l v e r
-- 2010-10-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/portuguese-to-protest-plan-to-use-toll-charges-to-reduce-budget-deficit.html
Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  has a novel way of reducing the euro-region’s fourth-
largest budget deficit: toll charges.  The government plans to impose tolls on seven of the
country’s main highways that cost about 700 million euros ($975
million) a year to maintain. Drivers will protest the measure
today by choking rush-hour traffic across Portugal starting at 5
p.m. in one of the broadest demonstrations against the deficit-
cutting efforts that also include wage cuts and higher taxes.  “There’s a feeling of revolt,” said Jose Macario Correia,
president of the Algarve Municipalities Association in Faro.
“I’m very worried about this attitude of the government.”  Portugal is stepping up efforts to convince investors it
can tame a deficit of 9.3 percent of  gross domestic product 
after its borrowing costs surged to a record last month on
concern it might follow Greece in having to seek European Union
aid to avoid default. The government says it can’t afford the
ballooning cost of subsidizing the upkeep of the 560-mile
highway network.  The  yield premium  investors demand to buy Portugal’s
benchmark 10-year bond over German equivalents reached a record
441 basis points on Sept. 28. That spread narrowed 2 basis
points to 398 basis points yesterday, still more than twice that
of neighboring Spain.  The highways known as SCUTs -- the Portuguese acronym for
No Costs for Users -- have been toll-free since they were built
in the 1990s. Builders such as  Mota-Engil SGPS SA  financed the
construction in return for future payments from the government
to cover their costs and the upkeep.  “It’s absolutely necessary, especially in this period of
economic difficulties we’re all going through, that there be
solidarity,” Public Works Minister  Antonio Mendonca  said Sept.
9. “It’s natural in these controversial issues that there be
some protest, but the government can’t make its policies based
on protests.”  Until now, demonstrations against the current plan have
been peaceful, though the issue of tolls fuels strong emotions
in Portugal. In 1994, days of protests over a plan to raise
rates on Lisbon’s April 25 bridge led to riots that prompted a
previous government to drop the increase.  “We shouldn’t underestimate regional, local movements that
produce a more war-like protest,” said Antonio Costa Pinto, a
researcher at Lisbon University and president of the Portuguese
Political Science Association.  The toll-free roads are one of the most expensive examples
of public-private partnerships, a strategy Portugal used
starting in the 1990s to expand its road network. The so-called
PPPs involve companies building infrastructure and receiving the
right to operate it, typically for 30 years. Instead of letting
the companies charge tolls, the Portuguese government agreed to
make direct payments.  Future Payments  Portuguese construction companies  Mota-Engil ; Soares da
Costa SGPS SA; Cintra, a unit of Spain’s Ferrovial SA; and
France’s Eiffage SA lead the consortiums that manage the
highways.  “PPPs have become another way of pushing government
liabilities into the future,” said economist  Mariana Abrantes ,
an adviser for the country’s first PPP contract for the
Lusoponte bridge. “It skews the policy options toward very
large, new stand-alone projects instead of smaller retrofits
which might have less budget impact and faster payback.”  The government expects to raise 160 million to 165 million
euros in 2011 and 260 million euros in 2012 with the
introduction of tolls, as it struggles to reign in the highest
budget gap in the 16-country euro region after Ireland, Greece
and Spain. The government will try to limit the initial impact
by offering discounts and exemptions for local drivers, Mendonca
said.  Economic Impact  “The introductions of tolls will worsen the economy,”
said Valdemar Madureira, spokesman for the users’ commission
against tolls near Oporto. The regions “will become fragile”
and lose commercial competitiveness with neighboring Spain.  Truckers, already struggling from a 20 percent increase in
energy costs since December, say they will be hard hit by the
change.  “The cost of the tolls is impossible to absorb in current
conditions,” said Antonio Mouzinho, president of the country’s
biggest truck association, representing 4,000 truckers. The cost
per truck may rise by at least 1,200 euros a month, he said.  The Socrates government included the toll charges in its
election platform in 2006 and didn’t move ahead with the plan
until this year. Initially, the government announced tolls for
only three highways near Oporto. Talks with the main opposition
party, the Social-Democrats, led to the decision to introduce
tolls in all seven roads.  Users Pay  “We’ve always defended the user-payer principle,” said
Jorge Costa, a member of parliament for the Social Democrats who
led the negotiations with the government. “If it’s not the
users paying its all Portuguese.”  Users are now expected to start paying tolls Oct. 15 at the
Oporto region highways and by April 15 at the remaining four.
The drivers’ associations still hope to stop the government from
enforcing tolls.  “Until you finish washing the baskets, it’s still wine
harvest,” Madureira said, referring to a Portuguese expression
that means, it’s not over until it’s over. “You never know.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Silver  in Lisbon at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net . 