-- Pound Rises Versus Dollar After BOE Holds Rate, Debt-Purchase Program
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-10-07T16:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/pound-rises-above-1-60-for-first-time-since-february-as-boe-holds-rates.html
The pound rose against the dollar to
its highest level in eight months after the Bank of England left
interest rates at a record low and refrained from increasing its
bond-buying program to stimulate the economy.  The U.K. currency also rebounded from near its weakest
level since May against the euro. The central bank held the main
rate at 0.5 percent, in line with the forecasts of all 60
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A report showed U.K.
 manufacturing output  rose 0.3 percent from the previous month,
when it gained a revised 0.4 percent, the Office for National
Statistics said today. The median forecast of 28 economists in a
 Bloomberg News survey  was for a gain of 0.2 percent.  “The pound jumped as there were a few people out there
worrying about the risk of more quantitative easing today, and
maybe a few with speculative short positions on the pound,”
said  Chris Turner , head of foreign-exchange research at ING
Groep NV in London. “A move towards further quantitative easing
was very unlikely, but there has been this debate in the U.K. in
the past two weeks about it coming through.”  The pound climbed as much as 0.8 percent after the
decision, breaking above $1.6 for the first time since Feb. 3.
It traded 0.3 percent higher at $1.5931 as of 5:05 p.m. in
London. Sterling also strengthened 0.3 percent to 87.38 pence
per euro, after earlier depreciating to 88.05 pence, the weakest
level since May 7.  The bank’s decision to hold its asset-purchase plan at 200
billion pounds ($319 billion) was predicted by 35 of 36
economists in a separate Bloomberg poll, with one forecasting a
rise to 250 billion pounds.  Pound Weakness  U.K. government bonds stayed lower, with the 10-year yield
rising 3 basis points to 2.93 percent. The two-year yield also
climbed 3 basis points to 0.65 percent.  The pound declined 0.3 percent against the dollar and was
little changed versus the euro after the central bank’s last
policy decision on Sept. 9. The 10-year bond yield jumped 6
basis points that day.  Sterling has lost 4.7 percent this year against a basket of
its developed-country peers, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes, amid speculation that the U.K.’s
economic recovery was slowing and in advance of deep spending
cuts to reduce the country’s record budget deficit.  A report today showed  U.K. house prices  plunged in
September by the most since at least 1983, when the gauge began.
The average cost of a home fell 3.6 percent from August to
162,096 pounds, Halifax said in an e-mailed statement. Property
values were 0.7 percent lower than the same month a year
earlier.  ‘Dovish Comments’  Policy maker  Adam Posen  last week advocated further asset
purchases, or quantitative easing, saying monetary policy
“should continue to be aggressive about promoting recovery.”
He was backed by the British Chambers of Commerce and the
Institute of Directors. Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  has voted
to raise interest rates since June.  “There has been a lot more dovish comments, notably by
Posen, during the past month,”  Jane Foley , a senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International in London, said before the
decision. “The minutes of the meeting will be more
interesting.”  The European Central Bank today kept its benchmark rate at
1 percent as financial-market tensions complicate its exit from
emergency measures. All 52 analysts in a separate Bloomberg
survey forecast the outcome.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ;
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
   lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  