-- Public Workers Should Pay More Toward Pensions, Former Blair Minister Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-07T10:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/public-workers-should-pay-more-toward-pensions-former-blair-minister-says.html
Public-sector workers in the U.K. may
have to pay more toward their pensions and accept benefits based
on average earnings rather than final salary, according to a
report commissioned by Prime Minister  David Cameron .  The  interim report  by  John Hutton , who was a minister in
 Tony Blair’s  Labour government, sets up a battle with labor
unions, which protested outside the Conservative Party
conference this week.  Public and Commercial Services Union 
General Secretary  Mark Serwotka  said on Sept. 12 that strikes
are “inevitable” if pension provision is trimmed.  “We’ve underestimated the cost of providing the current
range of public-service pension benefits,” Hutton told BBC
Radio 4’s “Today” show. “You could reduce pensioner
benefits,” which would be “unacceptable,” he said, “or you
could increase contributions and I think that’s the more
effective way of doing it.” Hutton will produce his final
report next year.  Cuts to pension spending are part of the coalition
government’s attempts to tackle the record budget deficit as the
Treasury has to make up a growing contributions shortfall. The
 Office for Budget Responsibility  forecast in June that the
government contribution would rise to 10.3 billion pounds ($16.4
billion) by April 2016 from 4 billion pounds in the current
fiscal year.  “This is an issue on which there is huge sensitivity and a
lot of apprehension amongst millions of public-sector workers,”
 Brendan Barber , general secretary of the Trades Union Congress,
an umbrella organization representing about 6.5 million
employees, told the BBC. “We might be on the brink of seeing a
real attack on pension provision.”  ‘Fundamentally Unfair’  Benefits based on final salaries are “fundamentally
unfair,” although it was wrong to say public-service pensions
are “gold-plated,” with half of government retirees getting
less than 5,600 pounds a year, Hutton said.  Changes should protect the low-paid, and members of the
armed forces should not be forced to contribute to their
pensions, he said.  Hutton said he will be reviewing other methods of
calculating benefits, including those based on average earnings,
before his final report. He said he wanted to avoid a “race to
the bottom” to match public pensions with the worst in the
private sector. Benefits accrued should not be taken away.  Retirement Age  “I don’t want to drive good decent folk who’ve worked hard
all their lives for the public interest into poverty in
retirement,” Hutton said. “I’m not suggesting that the rights
people have built up to date should be hacked around with.”  Possible changes to the retirement age in the public sector
will also be considered in the final report, Hutton said. The
pension age for most government workers is 60, compared with a
state retirement age that is set to rise to 68 from 65.  Hutton should consider how cost effective public-service
pensions are in attracting and retaining staff and whether there
should be a cut in their “average generosity,” the Institute
for Fiscal Studies, a research group, said in a statement.  Employment in central government and local government has
risen by more than 600,000 to 5.5 million over the past decade,
and pension payments from the five biggest plans have grown by a
third. Public-service pensions paid out 32 billion pounds in the
year through March 2009.  Pay-As-You-Go  Almost all public-sector programs pay defined benefits
linked to salary and length of service. Among the largest plans,
only the Local Government Pension Scheme is backed by a fund of
assets. Most operate on a pay-as-you-go basis, meaning the
contributions of employees and their departments are used to pay
retired members.  According to House of Commons research published in July,
the five largest public-sector plans have 7.2 million members,
only 3.3 million of whom are currently contributing, with 2.4
million drawing pensions. Employee contribution rates range from
zero in the armed forces to 11 percent of salary in the police
force. Ministries contribute about a fifth on average.  “Public-sector workers already pay a sizeable amount into
their pension schemes year in, year out, and many of our members
would struggle to pay more,” said  Dave Prentis , general
secretary of Unison, the largest public-sector union. “It is
time the government turned their attention to the private
sector, where two thirds of employers don’t provide a single
penny towards their employees’ pensions, forcing taxpayers into
picking up a massive long-term benefits bill.”  Speaking to broadcasters, Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  praised the Hutton report as “impressive and
substantial” and said the government will give its official
response in the review of spending due be announced on Oct. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  