-- Rahm Emanuel Ran Away to Join This Circus: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-10-07T01:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/rahm-emanuel-ran-away-to-join-this-circus-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Avert your eyes for the moment from
the political world’s newest shiny object, the titillating Bob Woodward droplet that the White House is considering the
ultimate shakeup, exchanging Vice President  Joe Biden  for
Clinton -- Hillary, that is -- in 2012.  Not to be outdone,  Donald Trump  raised the prospect that we
may once again have him and his hair to kick around. In a
television interview yesterday, The Donald got off the first big
whopper of the 2012 race for the presidency, saying, “For the
first time in my life, I am absolutely thinking about it.” It’s
actually the  second time  -- at least.  Trump’s fantastic thinking is right at home in this year’s
midterm election, in which anyone can run, get nominated and
explain themselves later, as Delaware Senate Republican nominee
Christine O’Donnell did in an ad beginning, “I’m not a witch.”  This election has devolved to a game of Whom-do-you-hate-
less, nowhere more so than in  Illinois , where the Democrat
running for President Barack Obama’s former Senate seat should
be well ahead. He isn’t.  The choice is whether to vote for the putative but
apologetic truth-twister, Republican U.S. Representative  Mark Kirk , or the former banker who allegedly can’t be trusted with
money, Democratic state Treasurer Alexi Giannoulias.  Kirk inflated his resume in ways small and large. Trying to
establish his credibility on education, he claimed to have
established order as a teacher in a church nursery school, a
notion challenged by a parent who didn’t recall any male
teachers and unbelievable on its face, in that order among 3-
year-olds is unattainable.  Overstatement  More seriously, Kirk, an intelligence officer in the U.S.
Navy Reserve, claimed military service that was exaggerated or
false: he didn’t come  under fire  flying over  Iraq , or command
the war room at the Pentagon,  win  the Navy’s Intelligence
Officer of the Year award or participate in Operation Desert
Storm.  His apologies and explanations only make matters worse. For
instance, the closest award he did win, in 2000, was the obscure
Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Navy Reserve Intelligence Award,
which was given to his unit by the National Military
Intelligence Association. About the stack of claims, Kirk  said ,
“I simply misremembered it wrong,” a brilliant double-negative
donation to the lexicon of Washington weasel phrases, which
includes “I misspoke” and “mistakes were made.”  Political Stance  Kirk’s fabulist episodes count more because there aren’t
stark policy differences between him and Giannoulias. Kirk is no
Tea Partier looking to dismantle the  Department of Energy , end
Social Security or roll back civil-rights laws. A Republican
representing a wealthy Democratic-leaning district on Chicago’s
North Shore, he moved right to win the primary but not so much
that he fell into  Lake Michigan .  A supporter of abortion rights, stem-cell research and more
federal funding for children’s health insurance, Kirk voted
against the stimulus and health-care reform on grounds it would
increase the deficit. He’s for extending all of  George W. Bush ’s
tax cuts permanently but would settle for only a two-year
extension.  At 34, Democrat Giannoulias is a bit young and a bit
underwhelming, achievement-wise. The failure of his family’s
bank, which made loans to some people with criminal records, has
been  shorthanded  by some Kirk supporters as “failed mob
banker.” His own career as a loan officer has become  an issue 
because he claimed a tax deduction based on working at the bank
after 2005, when he claimed to have left it.  Image Issue  Presiding over the Illinois treasury during a time of
 troubles  for the state’s college-savings program hasn’t helped
his self-portrait as a financial wizard.  The gossip columns have been no friend to either candidate.  The Alexi-is-sexy meme, fueled by pictures of Giannoulias
with a comely public-relations executive on his arm, only serve
to paint him as callow as a featured player on “The Bachelor.”  Kirk’s ex-wife, Kimberly Vertolli,  told  Chicago Magazine
that he is overly controlled by a “Svengali figure,”
consultant Dodie McCracken, who pushed him to the right on
“Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” and on extending  unemployment
benefits . Kirk swiftly  enlisted  his chatty ex-wife as an adviser
to his campaign.  Although Democrats enjoy a 10-point lead in party
registration in Illinois, their brand has suffered grievously.  First came the appointment of Roland Burris to the very
seat Giannoulias is running for. Burris, you’ll recall, left
space on his pre-built mausoleum for the title “Senator” and
claimed his elevation was “ordained” by God.  Man of Conviction  He was tainted by the revelation that it was ordained
instead by the Elvis-impersonating former governor,  Rod Blagojevich , who was caught on profanity-laced tapes saying of
the Obama’s open seat, “I’m just not giving it up for”
nothing. (Expletive deleted.)  The Blago mess hasn’t gone away with his conviction on one
count of lying to federal investigators. Prosecutors hoping to
send him to the slammer for more than five years will get
another chance when they retry the former governor on 23
charges, including that he sought to sell Obama’s seat.  If that spectacle isn’t enough to muddy the Democratic
brand, onto Giannoulias’s stage jets former ballet dancer,
current yoga devotee, former investment banker and Washington
insider  Rahm Emanuel  to run for mayor in a brutal primary in the
City of Broad Shoulders and Lunch Pails. Sucking up much of
 Chicago ’s political oxygen, Emanuel’s presence took a two-ring
circus and turned it into three.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  