-- Rainfall Boosts Vietnam Coffee Crop Before Harvest This Month, Growers Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-07T09:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/rainfall-boosts-vietnam-coffee-crop-before-harvest-this-month-growers-say.html
Rains in the center of  Vietnam , the
world’s biggest coffee producer after Brazil, are helping crop
development before the start of the harvest, said a grower group.  “We’ve had more rains for a few days now and that’s helped
the crop a lot as trees are in need of water,” said  Nguyen Xuan Thai , director at Thang Loi Coffee Co., the largest grower, by
telephone today. The central part of the country is the biggest
growing region.  An improved crop from Vietnam, top supplier of the robusta
variety used in espresso and instant drinks, may help push down
London prices which have increased 26 percent this year, raising
costs for manufacturers. Robusta for November delivery was
little changed at $1,625 per metric ton today.  Rainfall in Buon Ma Thuot, capital of Dak Lak, the largest
producing province, totaled 297.1 millimeters in September, up
from 178.3 millimeters in August, according to the Dak Lak
Hydrology and Meteorology Office in the central highlands.  “The rains, which came a bit late this year, have eased
dry conditions and increased water levels in reservoirs for
agricultural production,” said Nguyen Dai Nguong, director of
the weather office.  The province of Dak Lak may have more rain in the first 10
days of October “with an average level slightly higher than at
the same time in previous years,” the office said on Oct. 1.
Growers had been concerned that dry weather would reduce the
size of beans and affect production, according to Ton Nu Tuan
Nam, deputy head of the Institute for Coffee Studies in Dak Lak.  Good Rains  “It’s very good that we’ve had rains these days, easing
our concerns about a shortage of water for the development of
the trees and the  fruit, ” said Cao Van Tu, director of Dak Lak-
based Ea Pok Coffee Co., a grower and exporter. “Weather is our
biggest concern since the harvest will be in couple of weeks.”  Production from Dak Lak province may increase 5.3 percent
after good weather aided flowering, according to the local
government on Sept. 21. The harvest may climb to 400,000 tons in
the year from Oct. 1 from 380,000 tons in the prior season, said
Nguyen Van Sinh, deputy director of the provincial department
for agriculture and rural development. Dak Lak has about 180,000
hectares of coffee, out of Vietnam’s total of 500,000 hectares.  The Vietnam Coffee and Cocoa Association, known as Vicofa,
is conducting a field survey to assess the crop, according to
Chairman  Luong Van Tu . Vietnam may produce 20 million bags of
robusta in 2010-2011, a gain of about 8 percent, according to
ABN Amro and VM Group in a report e-mailed Aug. 31. A bag weighs
60 kilograms (132 pounds). The increase may contribute to a
global robusta surplus of 3.61 million bags in 2010-2011 from
the 2.98 million bags forecast in May, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  