-- Rand Slips After Central Bank Says Capital Controls Have `Definite' Place
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-07T14:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/rand-slips-after-central-bank-says-capital-controls-have-definite-place.html
South Africa’s rand weakened against
the dollar for the first day in three after the central bank
said there was a “definite place” for measures to stem inflows
that boosted the rand by 35 percent since the start of 2009.  The currency declined as much as 0.6 percent to 6.8979 per
dollar and traded 0.4 percent weaker at 6.8847 by 4:06 p.m. in
Johannesburg, from a previous close of 6.8571. Against the euro
the rand lost 0.6 percent to 9.6069.  The rand has rallied to third-best performer worldwide
since the beginning of last year as interest rates near zero in
developed nations encourage investors to borrow cheaply and
invest in markets offering higher returns, a strategy known as
the carry trade. Foreign investors, attracted by South Africa’s
6 percent benchmark interest rate, have purchased a net 90.42
billion rand ($13.2 billion) of the country’s stocks and bonds
this year, based on data from exchange operator  JSE Ltd.   “There is no doubt that discussions at the central bank
around the strength of the rand are very strong,” said  Bartosz Pawlowski , a London-based emerging-markets strategist at BNP
Paribas SA, France’s biggest bank. “I wouldn’t be terribly
surprised to see them do something” to weaken the rand.  Governments from South Korea to Brazil are stepping up
attempts to control their currencies as investors pour a record
amount of money into emerging markets. Brazil this week doubled
a tax it charges on foreign investments in fixed-income
securities while South Korean regulators will begin an audit of
banks handling foreign-currency derivatives to curb swings in
the won, which gained 9.7 percent in the past three months.  Volatility  Foreign-capital inflows can create “significant volatility
and instability in the event of a sudden stop or outflow of such
funds,” the South Africa’s central bank said in its Financial
Stability Review, released in the capital, Pretoria, today.  South African Reserve Bank  Governor  Gill Marcus  said last
month that measures to stem gains in the rand are “hugely
costly.” The central bank, based in Pretoria, incurred a loss
of 1.05 billion rand in the year through March trying to build
foreign reserves as a means of stemming gains in the rand.  Losses are incurred as the central bank issues domestic
bonds to mop up excess liquidity caused by selling rand for
dollars, a process known as sterilization.  A report today showed South Africa’s gross reserves climbed
2.2 percent in September as gold prices surged and a weaker
dollar boosted the value of euro, pound and other currency
holdings, the central bank said. Gold and foreign-currency
 reserves  increased to $44.07 billion from $43.1 billion in
August.  South Africa’s benchmark 13.5 percent government bond due
September 2015 rose 4 cents to 125.39 rand, reducing the yield
by 1 basis point to 7.27 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  