-- Millstein Says Greenspan Made `Complete Mistake'
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-10-07T23:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/treasury-s-millstein-says-greenspan-made-complete-mistake-.html
Alan Greenspan  blundered by limiting
oversight of financial firms when he led the Federal Reserve,
the U.S. Treasury Department’s restructuring chief said.  “Regulators fell down on their jobs, overcome by the
belief in the power of markets to self-regulate,” Treasury’s
 Jim Millstein  said at a conference yesterday in Dallas.  “That attitude was epitomized by former chairman of the
Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan’s belief that the management of
the big banks had so much of their equity at risk that they
could be counted on to be prudent,” Millstein said. “And
therefore he relaxed prudential risk management and oversight
among the regulators. And, as we now know, that was a complete
mistake.”  Millstein is working to unwind the Treasury Department’s
$49.1 billion investment in  American International Group Inc. ,
the insurer that was bailed out in 2008 after losses on wagers
tied to subprime loans. Financial firms including Citigroup Inc.
and  Bank of America Corp.  also needed government aid to recover.  The Financial Products unit at New York-based AIG that made
derivative bets on mortgages was the “ultimate rogue” in the
system, Millstein said during the conference at the University
of Texas at Dallas sponsored by the Institute for Excellence in
Corporate Governance. Millstein said his remarks at the event
reflect his personal views and not those of the Treasury.  Boards of companies that required bailouts are also at
fault for increased leverage, Millstein said.  “They can’t be golfing buddies with the managers,”
Millstein said of directors. “Management will always have an
inherent bias in increasing leverage because it’s a way of
increasing compensation.”  ‘Credit Tsunami’  Greenspan, 84, told Congress a month after AIG’s bailout
that a “once-in-a-century credit tsunami” had engulfed
financial markets and conceded his free-market ideology shunning
regulation was flawed.  “Yes, I found a flaw,” Greenspan said in response to
grilling from the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform. “I was shocked because I’d been going for 40 years or
more with very considerable evidence that it was working
exceptionally well.” Greenspan added he was “partially” wrong
for opposing the regulation of derivatives. An aide to Greenspan
had no immediate comment yesterday.  Greenspan, who pointed out at the hearing that he voted for
every regulatory action the Fed moved on, opposed increasing
financial supervision as Fed chairman from August 1987 to
January 2006. He said the Fed didn’t know the size of the
subprime mortgage market until late 2005.  ‘A Nightmare’  President  Barack Obama  in July signed a financial overhaul
meant to help prevent failing firms from threatening the
financial system while ensuring companies bear the costs of
risks they take. The Dodd-Frank Act gives the government powers
to unwind failing firms, creates a risk regulator in charge of
systemically significant companies, imposes new rules on
derivatives markets and forms a consumer-protection agency.  The U.S. must raise taxes and cut spending to deal with its
budget deficit, Millstein said. The shortfall was forecast by
the White House to be a record $1.47 trillion for 2010 and $1.42
trillion for fiscal 2011, which started Oct. 1.  “The budget deficit will become in three or four years, if
we don’t persuade the bond markets that we’ve got it under
control, it will be a nightmare for us the way it has become a
 nightmare for Greece ,” said Millstein, a former Lazard Freres &
Co. managing director.  Greece’s credit rating was cut to junk by Standard & Poor’s
in April amid concern that worsening sovereign finances may
undermine the global recovery.  ‘More Angry’  AIG was previously overseen by the Office of Thrift
Supervision because the insurer has a  lending operation . The
insurer said in August that the Federal Reserve could become its
regulator if the firm is deemed a savings and loan holding
company or a potential risk to financial markets.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers last year that
AIG operated like a hedge fund and that having to rescue the
insurer made him “more angry” than any other bailout of the
financial crisis.  “If there is a single episode in this entire 18 months
that has made me more angry, I can’t think of one other than
AIG,” Bernanke said in a March 2009 hearing in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  