-- U.S. Treasury Needlessly Deterred Smaller Managers From PPIP, Auditor Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-10-07T21:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/treasury-avoidably-deterred-smaller-ppip-managers-audit-says.html
U.S. officials may have hurt
taxpayers by needlessly favoring the biggest money managers in
choosing participants for a program designed to buy toxic debt
from banks, according to an audit of the selection process.  The Treasury Department told prospective applicants in the
Public-Private Investment Program, or PPIP, they must show they
could raise $500 million in private capital, then waived the
threshold for two firms that failed to reach it, according to
the 42-page report released today by the watchdog appointed to
supervise the government’s financial-bailout efforts.  “The taxpayer may have lost the benefit of the
participation of qualified, albeit smaller, fund managers
because they were avoidably deterred from applying or
unnecessarily rejected,” wrote  Neil M. Barofsky , special
inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  PPIP is an effort by the Treasury to spur purchases of
devalued mortgage-backed securities that weighed on banks’
balance sheets and helped cause the 2008 financial crisis.
Originally envisioned as soaking up as much as $1 trillion in
assets, the program was scaled back to a target of $40 billion.  “The report makes clear that PPIP is another TARP program
that defied expectations, helped stabilize the economy, and will
likely generate significant profits for taxpayers,”  Mark Paustenbach , a Treasury spokesman, said today in an e-mailed
statement. “At a time of deep economic instability, this
initiative unlocked the credit markets, making it possible for
small businesses, municipalities and families to borrow again at
affordable rates.”  PPIP Managers  Nine firms, including New York’s  BlackRock Inc. , the
world’s largest money manager by assets, and Atlanta-based
 Invesco Ltd. , were picked to take part in PPIP in July 2009. The
firms have since raised $7.4 billion, to which the government
added $7.4 billion in capital and about $14.8 billion in
financing.  The managers invested $18.6 billion as of Sept. 30,
according to a TARP review published this week by the Treasury.  Barofsky also said the Treasury required applicants to
partner with small, veteran-, minority- and woman-owned asset
managers, then failed to provide guidance on their expected
role, leaving firms “to their own interpretation.”  As a result, only two minority-owned partners participated
as money managers, while others took on fund-raising roles and
one “appears to provide no assistance whatsoever,” according
to the report.  No firms were named in the report.  Other PPIP participants are GE Capital Real Estate,
Marathon Asset Management LP and  AllianceBernstein LP , Oaktree
Capital Management LP, RLJ Western Asset Management LP and
Wellington Management Co. TCW Group Inc. was also selected
before liquidating its fund after the December departure of bond
manager  Jeffrey Gundlach , a so-called key man in TCW’s agreement
with the Treasury.  The eight remaining managers reported net internal rates of
return of 13 percent to 37 percent from inception through June
30, according to the Treasury’s TARP report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  