-- Record Junk-Debt Demand Fuels Payouts to Private-Equity Firms
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-10-07T15:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/record-junk-debt-demand-on-hunt-for-yield-fuels-payouts-to-buyout-firms.html
Private-equity firms are taking
advantage of record demand for high-risk, high-yield debt to pay
themselves dividends, saddling their companies with additional
loans and bonds.  Asurion Corp., acquired in a $4.1 billion buyout by firms
including Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, is leading companies
that initiated lender talks to raise $3.18 billion in loans this
week, with $1.4 billion slated for dividends, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Goodman Global Inc., taken private by
Hellman & Friedman LLC for $2.6 billion in 2008, is seeking
loans that will bring its debt-funded payouts to $776 million.  Speculative-grade companies are issuing more loans and
bonds for dividends since the credit crisis as the Federal
Reserve gears up for another round of quantitative easing that
may help keep interest rates at record lows. Investors are
funding payouts as measures to stimulate the economy diminish
returns in safer debt assets and strategists cut yearend
forecasts for equity gains amid a sluggish economy.  “Overall low quality of paper coming to market simply
reflects investors’ hunt for yield and private-equity firms are
filling that hunt with dividend deals,” said  Christopher Garman , chief executive officer of Garman Research LLC in
Orinda, California.  Shareholder payouts funded with bond and loan issuance
climbed to $24.2 billion this year, more than triple the amount
for all of 2009 and the most since the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index peaked in October 2007, according to S&P’s Leveraged
Commentary and Data.  ‘Froth’  “It’s not an ideal use of capital, it does suggest froth,
it reflects a lack of opportunities for head of corporations and
reflects what investors are saying about equity markets: there’s
simply not much growth in the future,” Garman said in an
interview.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4 that restarting
large-scale asset purchases is likely to help the economy.
Central bank officials including  William Dudley ,  Eric Rosengren 
and  Charles Evans  advocated further action ahead of the Nov. 2-3
policy meeting in an effort to reduce an unemployment rate
persisting at or above 9.5 percent and boost economic growth.  The world’s biggest economy will grow at a rate of 1.5
percent to 2 percent through the middle of 2011 and unemployment
will rise to 10 percent, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led
by  Jan Hatzius , chief U.S. economist, said in an Oct. 5 e-mail.
They forecasted a Fed move following the November meeting.  Treasury Yields  JPMorgan Chase & Co. revised Treasury yields downward last
week on increased expectations that the Fed might resume
purchasing Treasuries as soon as November, analysts led by  Peter Acciavatti  in New York said in an Oct. 1 report.  Yearend yields on five-year Treasuries will be at 1.25
percent and 10-year government bonds will be 2.25 percent,
according to JPMorgan forecasts. That compares with about 7.75
percent for high-yield bonds and 7 percent for leveraged loans,
according to the report.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  Investors are pouring money into junk-bond mutual funds at
the fastest pace this year and cash inflows to leveraged-loan
funds last month climbed to the highest since April, according
to the JPMorgan report, as returns on both outpace equities.
High-yield bond funds received $8.1 billion this year and loan
funds got $6.7 billion, Acciavatti led analysts said.  Junk bonds returned 12.76 percent this year, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch US High Yield Master II Index,
and the  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  gained 6.29
percent, beating the S&P 500 Index’s 5.66 percent.  Equities Forecast  The median forecast of strategists in December indicated
that the S&P 500 Index would gain 11 percent to finish 2010 at
1,238, according to Bloomberg data. The median forecast has
dropped to 1,200 as of Oct. 5.  Companies tapping into investor demand sold a record $206.4
billion of speculative-grade bonds this year, Bloomberg data
show. Meanwhile, banks arranged $258.2 billion of leveraged
loans, 2.6 times the 2009 amount and the most since 2007.  The leveraged-loan market funded $17.9 billion of dividends
this year, according to S&P LCD. Companies already raised or
started marketing $3.83 billion of the debt in October, on pace
to surpass last month’s issuance of $4.6 billion, the highest
since May 2007, S&P LCD and Bloomberg data show.  “There is usually a negative psychology attached to the
dividend deals and some thought that these signal a real
issuer’s market,” said  Greg Stoeckle , who manages about $18.5
billion of loan funds at Invesco in New York.  Creating Supply  “That said, when you strip away the sentiment and look at
the merits of each deal on the basis of risk/return and the
borrower’s ability to support the debt, then some of these deals
will make sense and create decent supply for the market that
continues to show demand side interest,” Stoeckle said in an e-
mail.  Private-equity firms, which pool money from investors and
obtain debt to finance takeovers with the intention of selling
the acquisitions later for a profit, are re-leveraging companies
as they extract payouts.  Goodman Global, the maker of heating, ventilation and air-
conditioning equipment, had reduced its ratio of debt to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
to 4.3 times in 2009 from 7.1 times in 2008, said  Paul Aran , a
Moody’s analysts that covers the company. After refinancing debt
and paying Hellman & Friedman $366 million from more than $2
billion in new loans, the company’s leverage will be about 5
times, he said.  Moody’s yesterday affirmed Houston-based Goodman’s credit
rating of B1, four levels below investment grade.  “They’re well positioned in the marketplace, overall the
company has generated positive cash flow even during the
downturn,” New York-based Aran said in a telephone interview.
“That being said, any time the economy is weak obviously it’s
somewhat better to be paying off debt than re-leveraging the
balance sheet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 