-- Remy International Sued by Shareholder Over Planned Exchange of Stock
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2010-10-07T14:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/remy-international-sued-by-shareholder-over-planned-exchange-of-stock.html
Remy International Inc. , the auto-
parts maker that emerged from bankruptcy protection in 2007, was
sued by a shareholder challenging a planned exchange of
preferred stock for common shares.  JB Capital Partners LP, owner of an undisclosed number of
common shares, contends Pendleton, Indiana-based Remy will
wrongly dilute its holdings by the exchange, according to court
papers.  “The exchange offer is blatantly unfair” and the company
has “failed to disclose material information” concerning the
valuation process, JB lawyers say in a complaint filed yesterday
in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  Remy said in a Sept. 29 statement it would provide newly
issued shares of common stock for all outstanding shares of
Series A and Series B preferred stock, at the equivalent of
$1,000 a share plus unpaid dividends. Remy valued the common
stock at about $9 a share, “$5.00 less than the price at which
Remy’s stock traded at prior to announcement,” according to
court papers.  Remy, which reported $910.7 million in sales last year,
last traded at $11.40 in over-the-counter trading on Oct. 5.  Remy, spun off from GM in 1994, emerged from bankruptcy
just 59 days after filings its Oct. 8, 2007, Chapter 11 petition
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington. The company and 28
affiliates sought protection after getting noteholders’ support
for a plan to convert notes into shares, cutting unsecured debt
by $315 million. The court-approved plan cut total debt by $360
million.  Fred Knechtel , a spokesman for Remy, declined to
immediately comment.  The case is JB Capital Partners LP v. Remy International,
CA5874, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 