-- Renault Selling Volvo Stock Worth $4.4 Billion After Stock Jumps
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-10-07T17:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/renault-is-selling-4-4-billion-volvo-stake-to-cut-debt-after-shares-jump.html
Renault SA , France’s second-largest
carmaker, sold a 14.9 percent stake in  Volvo AB  for 3 billion
euros ($4.2 billion), taking advantage of a surge in the Swedish
truckmaker’s shares to pay down debt.  Renault sold 302.9 million Class B shares in a private
placement at 93 kronor each, the French carmaker said in a
statement today, without identifying the buyers. Renault, which
remains Volvo’s largest stakeholder, gained the most in 14
months in Paris trading.  “It was a necessary step and a defensive move,”  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Bankhaus Metzler who
recommends selling Renault’s stock. “The motivation is clear:
they need cash for the normal business but it’s also not an exit
from the truck business or from Volvo. It’s a compromise.”  Increasing orders for commercial vehicles allowed
Gothenburg, Sweden-based Volvo and rivals Daimler AG and Scania
AB to beat earnings estimates or raise their profit outlook this
year. Before today, Volvo shares had advanced 57 percent over 12
months, while Renault had gained 15 percent.  Renault, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt,
 advanced  8.5 percent to 39.60 euros in Paris, the biggest
increase since Aug. 3, 2009. Volvo dropped 5.3 percent to 91.90
kronor on the Stockholm exchange, valuing the truckmaker at 193
billion kronor ($28.8 billion).  Lower Debt  Renault’s 6 percent notes due October 2014 rose 1.328, or
13.28 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to a bid price of
106.896 at 5:20 p.m. in London, Bloomberg composite prices show.
Credit-default swaps insuring the carmaker’s debt fell 21 basis
points to 216, according to data provider CMA, the lowest in
almost six months.  The carmaker, with net industrial debt of 4.66 billion
euros as of June 30, said it will retain its holding of 138.6
million Class A shares, or 6.8 percent of Volvo’s share capital
and 17.5 of voting rights, and both of its board seats.  “The funds raised from the placement will strengthen
Renault’s balance sheet, in preparation for the launch of our
new strategic plan next year,” Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said in today’s statement.  Valerian David , a Renault spokesman, declined to comment
when asked about the identity of the buyers.  Rating Upgrade?  Under Ghosn, Renault has pledged to cut its industrial debt
to 3 billion euros or less. Renault had 6.3 billion euros of
cash and equivalents at the end of the June.  Renault’s long-term debt is rated Ba1, the highest non-
investment grade rating, with a stable outlook at Moody’s
Investors Service and BB, one notch lower, with a stable outlook
at Standard & Poor’s.  Fitch Ratings today lifted Renault’s long-term debt by one
step to BB+, its highest non-investment rating.  “This disposal stabilizes Renault’s rating, more than
offsets Renault’s negative automotive free cash flow in the
second half and clears the way for further positive rating
actions,”  Sven Kreitmair , a credit analyst with UniCredit SpA
in Munich, wrote today in a note.  Moody’s Senior Vice President  Falk Frey  said in a statement
that the sale was announced some time ago “and has already been
factored into Renault’s rating.”  With 3 billion euros less
debt the company is positioned “more solidly” at Ba1, he said.  Industrivaerden AB, Volvo’s second-biggest owner, didn’t
buy any of the shares because Renault sold B stock, which has
one-tenth of an A share’s voting rights, said  Sverker Sivall ,
the Stockholm-based investment company’s spokesman.  ‘Wrong Color’  “Our strategy is to buy shares with strong voting power so
we can be an active owner,” Sivall said by telephone.  Christer Gardell , whose Violet Partners LP is Volvo’s
third-largest investor with 5.5 percent of the votes, said he
chose not to participate because of the lower voting rights.  “These shares have the wrong color,” Gardell said. “We’re
more interested in shares with more voting power.”  Sivall and Gardell declined to say whether they would buy
Renault’s A shares if they’re put up for sale later.  Renault has held the Volvo stake since selling its Renault
Trucks division to the Swedish company in 2001.  Marten Wikforss ,
a spokesman for Volvo, said he had no comment.  Industry-wide deliveries of heavy trucks will grow by more
than 50 percent to about 3 million vehicles by 2015, helped by
emerging markets,  Andreas Renschler , head of Daimler’s truck
division, predicted last month.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managed today’s sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  