-- Renault Selling Volvo Stock Worth $4.4 Billion After Stock Jumps
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-07T07:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/renault-sells-volvo-stake-for-4-2-billion-to-reduce-carmaker-s-debt-level.html
Renault SA , France’s second-largest
carmaker, sold a 14.9 percent stake in  Volvo AB  for 3 billion
euros ($4.2 billion), taking advantage of a surge in the Swedish
truckmaker’s shares to pay down debt.  Renault sold 302.9 million Class B shares in a private
placement at 93 kronor each, it said in a statement today. It
did not identify who bought the stock.  “It’s difficult to see it any other way than positively
for Renault,” said  Mike Tyndall , a London-based automotive
specialist at Nomura Securities. “We knew it would come to
market at some point, but the timing is a surprise.”  Increasing orders for commercial vehicles allowed
Gothenburg, Sweden-based Volvo and rivals Daimler AG and Scania
AB to beat earnings estimates or raise their profit outlook this
year. Before today, Volvo shares had advanced 57 percent over
the past 12 months, while Renault had gained 15 percent.  Volvo, the world’s second-largest maker of heavy trucks,
 fell  as much as 3.55 kronor, or 3.7 percent, to 93.50 kronor and
was down 3.1 percent as of 9:05 in Stockholm trading, valuing
the truckmaker at 197 billion kronor ($29.5 billion). Renault,
based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt,  gained  7.9
percent to 39.39 euros in Paris.  Renault, with net industrial debt of 4.66 billion euros as
of June 30, said it will retain its holding of 138.6 million
Class A shares, or 6.8 percent of Volvo’s share capital and 17.5
of voting rights, and both of its board seats.  Lower Debt  The placement “allows Renault to swiftly bring automotive
debt back into line with our targets, while keeping our A shares
and retaining our position as a core shareholder,” Chief
Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said in the statement.  Under Ghosn, Renault has pledged to cut its industrial debt
to 3 billion euros or less. Renault had 6.3 billion euros of
cash and equivalents at the end of the June.  Renault’s long-term debt is rated Ba1, the highest non-
investment grade rating, with a stable outlook at Moody’s
Investors Service and BB, one notch lower, with a stable outlook
at Standard & Poor’s.  “This disposal stabilizes Renault’s rating, more than
offsets Renault’s negative automotive free cash flow in the
second half and clears the way for further positive rating
actions,”  Sven Kreitmair , a credit analyst with UniCredit SpA in
Munich, said today in a note to investors. “Subsequently,
positive comments from rating agencies, for example a change to
a positive rating outlook, cannot be ruled out.  Not Interested  Industrivaerden AB, a Swedish investment firm that already
owns a Volvo stake, is not interested in buying the shares,
Svenska Dagbladet reported today, citing Chairman  Sverker Martin-Loef . Marten Wikforss, a spokesman for Volvo, said he had
no comment.  Renault Chief Operating Officer  Patrick Pelata  said as
recently as Sept. 15 that the carmaker didn’t intend to sell its
Volvo stake soon because the manufacturer had enough funds to
reduce debt. Renault has held the Volvo stake since selling its
Renault Trucks division to the Swedish company in 2001.  Industry-wide deliveries of heavy trucks will grow by more
than 50 percent to about 3 million vehicles by 2015, helped by
emerging markets,  Andreas Renschler , head of Daimler’s truck
division, predicted last month.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managed today’s sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  