-- Repsol Said to Sign Natural Gas Agreement with Qatar for Canaport Terminal
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-10-07T14:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/repsol-said-to-sign-natural-gas-agreement-with-qatar-for-canaport-terminal.html
Repsol YPF SA , Spain’s largest oil
company, signed a multi-year agreement with Qatar Liquefied Gas
Co. for delivery of liquefied natural gas to the Canaport
terminal in eastern Canada.  “The new LNG supply from Qatar strengthens Repsol’s
position in the Canadian and northeast U.S. markets as a
reliable, diversified, flexible supplier,”  Benjamin Palomo ,
executive director of LNG for Repsol, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Canaport, at St. John, New Brunswick, can put about 1
billion cubic feet a day of natural gas into pipelines. Madrid-
based Repsol owns 75 percent of Canaport and St. John-based
Irving Oil Corp. holds the rest.  Qatar, the world’s biggest LNG producer, has signed
contracts with China, Poland and other buyers in recent years,
amid projections that demand in the U.S. won’t be as strong as
expected because of a rise in American shale gas output. The
Persian-Gulf sheikhdom plans to raise its LNG production
capacity to 77 million metric tons by early next year.  Qatar Liquefied Gas Chief Operating Officer Ahmed Yousef
al-Khulaifi yesterday said Qatar would announce new LNG sales
agreements this week.  Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah , Qatar’s oil minister, said
last December that he expected to sign an agreement to supply an
annual 7 million tons of the fuel to China by the end of this
year. Qatar Liquefied Gas, known as QatarGas, has already
committed to sell 5 million tons a year to PetroChina Co. and
China National Offshore Oil Corp, according to Bloomberg data.  LNG is gas cooled to a liquid for transportation by ship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net .
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 