-- Trichet on `Battlefield' Edge as Policy Propels Euro to $1.40
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-10-08T10:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/trichet-on-battlefield-edge-as-ecb-rate-stance-spurs-euro-rally-to-1-40.html
European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  is bucking the global push toward easier monetary
policy, fueling the euro’s advance just as finance chiefs
convene in Washington amid concern of a “currency war.”  With the Bank of Japan this week boosting its asset-
purchase plan and the U.S. Federal Reserve mulling a similar
shift, Trichet said yesterday that ECB policy makers are in the
“same mood” as a month ago and for now remain committed to
phasing out their unlimited lending program.  That resolve propelled the  euro  to $1.40 for the first time
since February and leaves it to shoulder the burden of what
economists say is an international embrace of weaker exchange
rates as nations try to boost exports. The price Trichet may
have to pay is slower growth as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and
Credit Suisse Group AG warn the stronger currency is starting to
hurt the European economy.  “The ECB is standing at the edge of the battlefield and is
happily allowing others to fire on it without any sign of self-
defense,” said  Klaus Baader , co-chief European economist at
Societe Generale SA in London.  The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.3875 as of 11:09 a.m. in
London. The dollar traded near the lowest level since 1995
against the yen, standing at 82.43 yen from 82.41 yen in New
York yesterday.  Currency War  A week after Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
complained of a global “currency war,” Trichet said markets
should set exchange rates and warned “disorderly” movements in
currencies can harm growth. That sets the tone for today’s
meetings of the International Monetary Fund and Group of Seven
as more governments intervene to weaken their currencies and the
dollar falls on speculation the Fed will pursue more
quantitative easing.  Russian Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  drew up his
own battle lines today, telling reporters in Washington that
Brazil, Russia, India and China have united to show “rather
strong resistance” to attempts to make “any harsh appraisal”
of currency controls.  “Countries are looking to jump-start growth any way they
can,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in New York. “The tried-and-true method of
boosting trade and economic activity is to depreciate your
currency, but not all countries can depreciate their currencies
at the same time and this is leading to some friction.”  Currency Framework  The discord may not yet be strong enough for officials to
devise a new framework for currencies. IMF Managing Director
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said he doubts the “mood” exists among
governments to replicate the currency accords of the 1980s.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  nevertheless said
yesterday that France wants to “kick-start” thinking on the
global monetary system and pursue greater coordination.  “I share the growing concern about the misalignment of
currencies,” billionaire investor  George Soros  wrote in an
article for the Financial Times. Talk of a currency war “is not
far off the mark. It is in the currency markets where different
economic policies and different economic and political systems
interact and clash.”  China remains the target of the greatest criticism. Even as
it boasts the fastest-growing major economy, it has limited the
yuan’s appreciation to about 2 percent versus the dollar since
pledging in June to make it more flexible. Trichet said it was
“very important” that that vow be followed through and a
“gradual appreciation” allowed.  No Future?  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  this week said
a “damaging dynamic” of large economies undervaluing their
currencies threatens to quicken inflation and asset bubbles, and
restrict growth. “History shows that there is no future in
beggar-thy-neighbor policies,” World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said yesterday.  People’s Bank of China Vice Governor  Yi Gang  said in
Washington yesterday that a major shift in the yuan would cause
“social upheaval” and that the government is taking a
“gradual” approach.  China’s ability to deflect criticism may be fortified by
the recent willingness of Japan, Brazil, Switzerland and other
nations to temper strength in their currencies through
intervention.  Also undermining some exchange rates is the shift by
various central banks to considering more measures to buoy their
sluggish economies. Low interest rates in the industrial world
prompted complaints yesterday from the Group of 24 emerging
markets that their currencies are being forced higher and their
economies put at risk of overheating by a flow of capital
seeking returns.  ‘Virtually Zero’  The Bank of Japan this week cut its benchmark interest rate
to “virtually zero” and promised to help its economy by buying
more assets. Fed officials are signaling they may also do more
to stimulate growth and while the Bank of England yesterday held
its target for bond holdings at 200 billion pounds ($318
billion), policy maker  Adam Posen  last week indicated he favored
an increase.  The dollar yesterday fell to its lowest since 1995 versus
the yen on concern the Fed’s actions will debase it.  By contrast, Trichet signaled no intention to loosen
monetary policy and said the ECB will keep gradually phasing out
its non-standard liquidity measures. While the ECB has phased
out its 12- and 6-month loans, it still lends unlimited amounts
in its weekly, monthly and three-month tenders, and has pledged
to keep doing so into early 2011.  Schools of Thought  The “underlying momentum” of the economy remains positive
albeit with risks “slightly tilted to the downside,” he said.  The ECB and Fed compose “two different schools of
thought,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “The ECB is looking
at their own economy and seeing some signs of a revival. They’re
very concerned about going down the line of the Fed.”  The IMF this week raised its forecast for growth in the
euro area next year to 1.5 percent from 1.3 percent in July,
while cutting its estimate for U.S. expansion to 2.3 percent
from 2.9 percent.  The risk for the ECB is that if other central banks pump
more money into their economy the resulting drop in their
currencies will squeeze the euro higher, hurting Europe’s
export-led expansion.  Credit Suisse analysts this week cut their outlook for
European stocks in part because of the potential for a stronger
euro. With exports accounting for 16 percent of gross domestic
product they estimate every 10 percent gain in the euro on a
trade-weighted basis reduces GDP growth by 0.8 percent, while
also lopping about 11 percent off European corporate earnings
given 36 percent of them come from abroad.  Overshoot?  With other central banks considering more monetary easing,
the ECB standing pat means “the risk is the euro overshoots”
to as much as $1.50, the analysts led by London-based  Andrew Garthwaite  said, adding that would also apply deflationary
pressure on the so-called peripheral European economies.  Goldman Sachs this week cut its growth forecast for the
euro area next year to 1.8 percent as it predicted the euro will
rise to $1.55 over the next 12 months, compared with its
previous forecast of $1.38.  Trichet’s comments “did serve to emphasize the chasm in
the direction of monetary policy on either side of the
Atlantic,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN Amro
Bank NV in Amsterdam. “It’s no surprise that the euro rose
further.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
 Jana Randow  in Washington at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net  