-- Trichet Opposes `Disorderly' Currency Moves as Euro Climbs
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-10-07T15:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/trichet-holds-rate-at-1-for-18th-month-as-banks-stay-hooked-on-ecb-funds.html
European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  said he opposes “disorderly” currency moves
even as his reluctance to consider easier monetary policy helped
push the euro to a nine-month high against the dollar.  “More than ever, exchange rates should reflect economic
fundamentals,” Trichet told reporters in Frankfurt today after
the ECB today left its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low
of 1 percent. “Excess volatility and disorderly moves have
adverse implications for economic and financial stability.”  The euro appreciated to $1.40 for the first time since
February, extending its gain in the past month to 10 percent, as
Trichet signaled little willingness to do more to support
growth. By contrast, the Bank of Japan this week dropped its
benchmark to “virtually zero” and expanded its asset-purchase
program, while the U.S.  Federal Reserve  has indicated it may do
more to prop up its economy. The Bank of England today
maintained its stimulus and kept rates at a record low.  Trichet, who said he supports a “strong dollar” and
called for a “gradual appreciation” of the yuan, will today
fly to Washington to attend a Group of Seven summit that’s
likely to be dominated by discussions about exchange rates and
international trade. Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said Sept. 27 that there’s already a worldwide “currency war.”  ‘Mildest of Rebukes’  Trichet’s comment on exchange rates was “the mildest of
rebukes,” said  Ken Wattret , an economist at BNP Paribas in
London. “We continue to view the contrast between the debate
inside the ECB over what to do next and that within the Fed and
other central banks as a green light for the euro to stay
stronger for longer than the fundamentals suggest it ought to
be.”  Chinese officials this week stiffened their opposition to
allowing the yuan to appreciate against other currencies after
meeting Trichet and other policy makers in Brussels. The dollar
today dropped to a 15-year low against the yen and to a record
low against its Australian counterpart.  Trichet is trying to shore up Europe’s economic recovery
and help banks hurt by this year’s debt crisis without making
financial institutions dependant on cheap ECB cash. While the
ECB has phased out its 12- and 6-month loans, it still lends
unlimited amounts in its weekly, monthly and three-month
tenders, and has pledged to keep doing so into early 2011.  ‘No Change’  Trichet said there’s “absolutely no change” in the ECB’s
stance from a month ago and it will continue to gradually phase
out its non-standard liquidity measures.  “We’re not at all challenging the fact that we need the
non-standard measures at the moment I’m speaking,” Trichet
said. “There is consensus on that. Of course we have to make a
judgment. We have a new rendezvous to decide what will have to
be the new mode at the end of the year.”  Near-record borrowing costs for nations across the euro
region’s periphery are making the ECB’s exit more difficult.  Irish 10-year bond yields soared to a record versus German
bunds on Sept. 29 on concern the bailouts of  Anglo Irish Bank
Corp.  and Allied Irish Banks Plc would overwhelm government
finances. The Portuguese-German 10-year yield spread, which hit
a record on Sept. 28, was at 400 basis points today, up from 88
basis points on March 10.  Trichet said the market “is not functioning correctly”
and “concerns remain relating to the emergence of renewed
tensions.”  ‘Better Than Expected’  Still, the  economy  is showing few signs of slowdown after
expanding at the fastest pace in four years in the second
quarter. The International Monetary Fund yesterday raised its
euro-region growth forecast for this year to 1.7 percent from 1
percent. In 2011, the economy may expand 1.5 percent instead of
a previously projected 1.3 percent, the fund said.  Trichet said that while the euro region’s economic
development was “obviously better than expected,” the ECB sees
risks “tilted slightly on the downside.”  Inflation  will remain
“moderate” this year and next, he added.  “We’re on a modest growth path,” Trichet said. “We don’t
declare victory and we have to be very alert.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in Frankfurt at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
 Simone Meier  in Frankfurt at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  