-- Rio, BHP May Abort Planned Iron Ore Venture By End of Year, Merrill Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-10-07T06:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/rio-bhp-may-abort-iron-ore-venture-by-end-of-year-merrill-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. and  Rio Tinto Group ,
the world’s largest- and third-largest mining companies, may
abort their proposed iron ore joint venture by the end of the
year because of regulatory objections, Merrill Lynch said.  “Given the obstacles to the joint venture clearance it
would appear that the likelihood of joint venture discussions
‘in good faith’ continuing past the drop dead date of Dec. 31 is
increasingly remote,” analysts led by  Peter O’Connor  said in a
report dated yesterday.  Rio and  BHP , the world’s second- and third-largest
producers of iron ore, agreed in June 2009 to combine mines,
railroads and ports in Australia’s Pilbara region. BHP pledged
to make a $5.8 billion equalization payment to London-based Rio
as part of the accord that would cut costs for the companies by
$10 billion. The venture, initially due to be completed by mid-
2010, has been delayed as regulators study the plan.  “The deal has faced headwinds for some time and the
probability of completing was very low anyway,” O’Connor said.
“Given improved financials, compared to when the deal was
hatched in mid-2009, we see a solo Rio iron ore unit as an
exceptionally viable alternative.”  Rio Tinto climbed 0.7 percent to A$79.54 at the 4:10 p.m.
Sydney time close, the highest since April 16. Melbourne-based
BHP gained 1 percent to A$40.95 on the Australian stock exchange.  Rio’s board “acknowledged recent communications from
regulators that indicate potential obstacles to achieving
clearance,” the company said in a statement after an Oct. 4
board meeting. Rio hasn’t made any final decisions regarding the
tie-up with BHP in Western Australia, it said.  Regulatory Reviews  The Japan Fair Trade Commission  and the  Korea Fair Trade
Commission  have filed interim reports on the venture and Rio
said it’s continuing talks with Australian and European
regulators. The European Commission’s preliminary investigation
into the plan is “coming to an end,”  Amelia Torres , a
spokeswoman for the regulator, said yesterday by telephone.  The two companies had agreed to a $276 million break fee
when they signed the deal on June 5 last year. Rio was preparing
to tell BHP yesterday it wants to exit the deal, the  Age
newspaper  reported yesterday, citing people close to the board.
It no longer wants to proceed because shareholders oppose the
venture, Rio’s financial situation has improved and the
partnership favors BHP, according to the report.  Merrill Lynch is a unit of Bank of America Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  