-- Rupee Climbs to Two-Year High, Supported by Strengthening Stock Inflows
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 2010-10-07T12:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/rupee-trades-near-five-month-high-as-foreigners-load-up-on-india-s-stocks.html
India’s rupee rose to the strongest
level in more than two years on speculation foreigners will pour
more funds into the nation’s equities to profit from an
improving outlook for Asia’s third-largest economy.  Overseas investors have plowed more than $20 billion into
the nation’s shares this year and added to their holdings every
day from Aug. 27 through Oct.5, exchange data show. India’s
economy will expand 9.7 percent in 2010, the International
Monetary Fund said yesterday, revising a July estimate for 9.4
percent growth. Only China is forecast to grow faster among the
so-called BRIC economies, which also include Brazil and Russia.  “It is basically a one-way street as of now as sustained
fund inflows are pushing the rupee higher,” said  Ashutosh Raina ,
head of foreign-exchange trading at HDFC Bank Ltd. in Mumbai.
“Strong economic growth is attracting a lot of investment.”  The Indian currency appreciated 0.7 percent to 44.1950 per
dollar as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It’s Asia’s best performer of the past
month with a 5.8 percent advance and today touched 44.115, the
strongest level since Sept. 1, 2008.  Reserve Bank of India Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said Oct.
5 that action will be taken if capital flows prove disruptive.
Policy makers can try to influence exchange rate by buying or
selling currencies.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 44.63 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 44.97
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
V. Ramakrishnan at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
 Anil Varma  at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  