-- Russia Cancels $800 Million Iran Air-Defense Contract After UN Sanctions
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-10-07T12:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/russia-cancels-800-million-iran-air-defense-contract-after-un-sanctions.html
Russia annulled a contract valued at
about $800 million to supply an S-300 air-defense battery to
Iran and is in talks on refunding an advance payment made by the
Middle East country.  “We cancelled the contract,” Russian Technologies Corp.
Chief Executive Officer  Sergei Chemezov  told reporters in
Nicosia today. Iran “isn’t very happy” with the decision,
“but we had no alternative.” The cancellation falls under a
force majeure clause in the contract, he said.  The Kremlin said in June that the S-300 fell under United
Nations sanctions against Iran, which banned sales of weaponry
including fighter jets, attack helicopters, warships or
missiles. President  Dmitry Medvedev  last month signed a decree
banning the sale of weapons, including the S-300, to Iran in
compliance with the sanctions.  Delivery of the S-300 would “represent a significant
increase in the defense capability of Iranian forces,” U.S.
General  David Petraeus  said in March.  Chemezov said Iran made a $166.8 million advance payment on
the S-300 contract, and under the force majeure clause in the
contract Russia must refund this amount. “We’re not obligated
to return a penny more,” he said.  The UN sanctions constitute a force majeure situation,
Chemezov said. The two sides will sign an agreement on returning
the advance payment, he said.  Russia delivered an S-300 battery to Algeria under a 2006
contract and plans to sign an additional agreement to deliver a
second, Chemezov said in Nicosia, where he was in a delegation
that accompanied Medvedev on a two-day visit to Cyprus.  No other countries have placed orders for the S-300,
Chemezov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Nicosia at  lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  