-- Russia, Cyprus to Crack Down on Tax Evaders After Data-Sharing Agreement
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2010-10-07T16:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/russia-cyprus-to-crack-down-on-tax-evaders-after-data-sharing-agreement.html
Russia and Cyprus signed an accord
simplifying the exchange of information between fiscal
authorities to spur investment and clamp down on tax evasion.  The agreement, which amends a 1998 double taxation treaty,
will make it harder for Russian-owned companies in Cyprus to
avoid paying taxes at home, Cypriot President  Demetris Christofias  said at a news conference in Nicosia with his
Russian counterpart,  Dmitry Medvedev .  This will help build economic ties between the two
countries by ensuring that “financial and investment relations
are clean and don’t cause problems,” Christofias said.  As a result of the accord, Russia’s Finance Ministry will
remove Cyprus from a blacklist it was placed on two years ago
for allegedly failing to share tax information. The central bank
in May dropped Cyprus from a list of tax havens. Hundreds of
Russian companies are based on the island to take advantage of
low tax rates.  Russia is counting on “productive cooperation with Cyprus
in financial and law enforcement spheres,” Medvedev said today
during a one-day visit to the east Mediterranean island.  The agreement will simplify procedures for sharing
information and make them more transparent,  Andrei Kostin , head
of VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest bank, told reporters. He
doesn’t expect the deal to affect the flow of Russian investment
to Cyprus.  “It is an important step as Cyprus has long insisted to be
dropped from the blacklist,” Kostin said. “Today’s protocol is
crucial for establishing normal relations between financial and
tax authorities of both countries and creating a regime so that
Russian businesses registered in Cyprus won’t be questioned.”  International Image  VTB today opened a Nicosia branch of its Cyprus subsidiary,
Russian Commercial Bank Ltd., to serve businesses and
individuals in Cyprus.  Trade between the two countries tripled in the first half
of this year to more than $1 billion. Cyprus, the largest
foreign investor in Russia, had $52.2 billion of investment in
the country as of August, according to Kremlin data.  The tax agreement will “give investment flows in both
directions a boost,” said Phidias Pilides, president of the
Cyprus Investment Promotion Agency and the Cyprus-Russian
Business Association, in an interview. “Cyprus will be removed
from the blacklist of the Russian Finance Ministry and this will
help Cyprus’s international image.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Nicosia via the London bureau at 
2254 or  lpronina@bloomberg.net 
 Stelios Orphanides  in Nicosia through the Athens bureau at +30-
   sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  