-- Russian Consumer Confidence Dropped in Third Quarter on Drought, Inflation
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-10-07T12:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/russian-consumer-confidence-dropped-in-third-quarter-on-drought-inflation.html
Russian consumer confidence fell in
the third quarter as people became less optimistic about their
personal incomes after the worst drought in half a century
spurred inflation.  Confidence  slid 4 points to minus 11, the  Federal
Statistics Service  said today in an e-mailed statement. The
index added 3 points in the previous quarter. The index, based
on a survey of 5,000 people around Russia, reached minus 7 in
the previous survey, the highest in seven quarters.  The decline mainly resulted from the “worsened subjective
opinion of the population regarding expected and actual changes
in the economy, as well as expected changes in their personal
financial situation,” according to the statement.  Banks including Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich and Aton
Capital cut their forecasts for Russia’s 2010 economic growth 
last month after the drought hobbled agricultural output and
fueled inflation. The economy contracted a seasonally adjusted
0.4 percent in August as  consumer prices  rose a monthly 0.6
percent, the biggest increase for that month in a decade.  The central bank left its main interest rates unchanged
last month, saying it “still believes that inflationary risks,
shaped by monetary conditions, are at an acceptable level.”  Consumer prices rose in September for a second consecutive
monthly gain, adding 0.8 percent, according to the statistics
office. Annual  inflation  accelerated to 7 percent in the month.  Wage Growth  The verage monthly wage, adjusted for inflation, rose 6.6
percent in August, the same as in the previous month, according
to the statistics service. Eighty-one percent of those surveyed
said consumer-price growth would outpace income growth in the
third quarter, compared with 73 percent in the previous quarter.  “The news is likely to cool off investor sentiment for
Russian consumer sector in the short term,”  Mikhail Terentiev ,
an analyst with Nomura Holdings Inc. in Moscow, said today in an
e-mailed note.  The shares of  OAO Seventh Continent , a Russian food store
chain, fell 6.4 percent to 281.50 rubles as of 2:58 p.m. in
Moscow trading.  There is “some risk” inflation will exceed the official
forecast of as much as 8 percent this year, Bank Rossii First
Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said Oct. 5. The regulator left
its price-growth estimate unchanged at 7 percent to 8 percent.  The economy is on a good recovery path that is “not too
fast, but more or less sustainable,” Ulyukayev said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  