-- Saab Targets Return to China, Russia in 2011, Sales Chief Says
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-10-07T13:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/saab-targets-china-russia-brazil-mexico-markets-in-11-sales-head-says.html
Saab Automobile, the Swedish carmaker
owned by  Spyker Cars NV , aims to start selling cars in  China ,
Russia, Brazil and Mexico in the first half of next year, its
sales chief said in an interview.  Saab is negotiating with potential distribution partners in
the four countries and aims to reach agreements by the end of
the year,  Adrian Hallmark  said by phone late yesterday.  “In the next two years the new markets will not materially
change our performance volume-wise, but in the next five years I
believe they will fundamentally change our performance,”
Hallmark said.  General Motors Co ., which sold Saab to the Dutch super-car
maker in February, halted its imports of the Swedish brand into
China and Russia during the economic crisis that started in
2008, Hallmark said. Saab, on the brink of shutting down before
Spyker bought it, aims to become profitable by 2012. While the
company is now focusing on re-establishing itself in the U.S.
and Europe, growth markets such as China will be key to its
long-term success, Hallmark said.  In China, Saab is talking to “numerous potential
partners,” including  Beijing Automotive Industry Holding Co .,
which last December bought technologies from Saab for about $200
million. “BAIC is part of the process but they’re not the
guaranteed distribution partner, far from it,” Hallmark said.  For now Saab is only seeking a distribution deal in China,
and next year it may study whether local production would be
feasible, he said.  “If we only import cars to China I think we can sell 2,000
to 5,000 cars a year,” he said. “If we build cars in China it
could be 50,000-plus cars per year.”  Saab sold 860 cars in China in 2008, the last year it had a
presence there.  Indian Market  Hallmark declined to identify any other potential new
distribution partners. For Russia, Saab is holding discussions
with four candidates, while for Brazil and Mexico it’s talking
to a total of 15 companies, said Hallmark, who joined the
carmaker in March from  Volkswagen AG , where he was executive
director for Asia.  Saab also aims to enter the Indian market in the second
half of 2011, he said.  The key to expanding sales in these markets will be Saab’s
new 9-3 model, a mid-sized sedan scheduled for release in 2012,
Hallmark said.  “Until the end 2012 we want to get started, get the right
business partners and then have a real growth strategy based
around the launch of the new car,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  