-- JPMorgan to Buy Energy-Trading Assets From Sempra, RBS for $220 Million
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2010-10-07T20:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/sempra-royal-scotland-to-sell-commodities-assets-to-jpmorgan.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-
largest U.S. bank by assets, agreed to buy the North American
natural-gas and power-trading book from a joint venture between
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and  Sempra Energy  for about
$220 million.  The sale, which requires regulatory approval from the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, completes the divestiture
of the last of the principle assets of the venture, San Diego-
based Sempra said in a statement today.  Sempra, the owner of the largest U.S. natural-gas utility,
expects to take a third-quarter charge of $50 million to $150
million to reflect a reduction in its investment in the venture.  RBS is being forced to sell its commodities unit to comply
with European Union rules after getting 45.5 billion pounds
($70.9 billion) in the biggest bailout of a U.K. bank. The
lender bought a controlling stake in the venture in 2008 as
banks expanded commodity-trading operations, driven by rising
interest in gold, oil and other raw materials.  On July 1, Sempra and RBS, based in Edinburgh, completed a
$1.7 billion sale to JPMorgan of the venture’s metals, oil and
European power and gas business.  RBS said in a separate e-mailed statement that its share of
today’s sale is $112 million. The financial effect of the sale
of the entire venture is expected to be breakeven, the bank
said.  Sempra expects its share of the proceeds of the sale from
the entire venture and related cash distributions to total $1.8
billion to $1.9 billion. Sempra fell 20 cents to $53.89 at 4:04
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Cox at   acox3@bloomberg.net . 