-- Seven Cyclists Are Investigated in `Shock' Anti-Doping Tactics in Spain
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-10-07T15:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/seven-cyclists-are-investigated-in-shock-anti-doping-tactics-in-spain.html
Seven cyclists are being investigated
by Spanish anti-doping authorities in “shock tactics” to
counter cheating, a government official said, a week after Tour
de France winner  Alberto Contador  was suspended.  Two of the seven are “in the final phase” of disciplinary
proceedings, Albert Soler, general director of the government’s
sports unit, told a conference in Madrid today. He didn’t
identify the riders or give details of their cases. Contador
isn’t among the seven, he added.  “These are shock tactics to avoid what’s happening in the
world of cycling,” Soler said. The seven were targeted with
surprise drug tests after they had unusual readings in their so-
called biological passports, which monitor blood parameters like
hemoglobin, he added.  The government and Spanish cycling federation intensified
the search for cheats earlier this year, Soler said after
speaking at the conference titled “Do We Have a Doping Problem
in Spain?”  Pat McQuaid , president of cycling’s ruling body
Union Cycliste Internationale, said Oct. 2 that Spain needs to
do more to counter doping.  Contador was suspended last week by the UCI pending an
investigation after a “very small” amount of clenbuterol was
found in a urine sample at the Tour de France. The Spaniard, a
three-time winner, said it was a “clear case” of contamination
after he ate beef brought by a friend.  Clenbuterol treats respiratory disorders such as asthma and
can raise aerobic capacity by increasing the flow of oxygen in
the bloodstream.  Riders Suspended  Tour of Spain runner-up Ezequiel Mosquera and teammate
David Garcia Da Pena, Spaniards riding for the Xacobeo team,
were suspended after testing positive for hydroxyethyl starch
last month. The starch, which can help mask blood-boosting
drugs, is banned. Both deny wrongdoing.  Public prosecutors are investigating the Xacobeo team,
which is based in northwest Spain, Javier Martin del Burgo,
director of the national anti-doping agency, told the
conference. Spain introduced anti-doping legislation, which
became active in 2007, that makes supplying drugs to athletes a
criminal offense.  Spain doesn’t have “a bigger or smaller” problem with
doping than the rest of the world,  Jaime Lissavetzky , Secretary
of State for Sport, said.  “It’s a global phenomenon,” Lissavetzky said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christopher Elser 
 celser@bloomberg.net  