-- Singapore Will Maintain Currency Appreciation Pace in Review, Survey Shows
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-10-07T01:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/singapore-will-maintain-currency-appreciation-pace-in-review-survey-shows.html
Singapore’s central bank will refrain
from allowing faster currency appreciation at next week’s twice-
yearly review to balance the risks of slowing global growth and
accelerating inflation, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  will retain its policy
for a modest and gradual strengthening in the local dollar, all
but one of the 14 economists surveyed predicted, with Morgan
Stanley forecasting a one-off tightening. The median estimate
was for a further 0.6 percent rise in the currency by year-end.  Singapore’s  manufacturing  increased in August by less than
a quarter of the pace in April, when the MAS revalued the
currency and signaled further gains in a combined move that was
unprecedented in its 39-year history. Inflation quickened to an
18-month high of 3.3 percent in August.  “The twin-tightening in April is sufficient for now and
with growth coming off and uncertainties in major economies, all
things suggest there should be no policy changes,”  Philip Wee ,
a Singapore-based senior currency economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd., said in an interview on Oct. 4. “If inflation
remains above 3 percent next year, we may see further tightening
in April.”  Singapore’s dollar traded at S$1.3078 versus its U.S.
counterpart as of 8:49 a.m. local time, and reached S$1.3068,
the strongest level since 1981 when Bloomberg began tracking the
data. It has gained 5.3 percent since the April 14 policy
meeting, when the currency rallied as much as 1.2 percent.  Inflation to ‘Moderate’  The central bank uses the exchange rate rather than
interest rates to conduct monetary policy, adjusting the pace of
appreciation or depreciation against an undisclosed trade-
weighted band of currencies. The stance likely allows an annual
2 percent gain versus the basket, according to the median
estimate of the economists surveyed.  Appreciation in the currency may help the MAS keep
inflation from accelerating beyond its desired threshold but at
the same time jeopardize an export recovery as growth in the
global economy ebbs.  Singapore’s dollar has advanced 7.2 percent this year, the
third-best performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies
excluding the yen.  Inflation  is near the upper end of the 2.5
percent to 3.5 percent target range set by the central bank for
2010.  Penn Nee Chow  at United Overseas Bank Ltd., who was the
only analyst to correctly predict the unprecedented tightening
in Bloomberg’s April survey, said inflation will ease as
economic expansion cools.  “Growth may moderate in the next six to nine months due to
slowing manufacturing in Singapore and the Group of Seven
nations, which will impact Singapore’s exports,” Chow, an
economist at Singapore’s second-largest bank, said in an
interview on Oct. 4.  Survey Results  Figures from the Ministry of Trade and Industry due out the
same day as the Monetary Authority of Singapore’s currency
review may show the economy contracted in the third quarter for
the first time since the period ended December 2009.  Gross domestic product probably declined 15.7 percent from
the previous quarter, after increasing 24 percent in the three
months through June, according to the median estimate of seven
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The economy expanded 10.8
percent from the same period last year, compared with 18.8
percent in the second quarter, the same survey showed.  The Economic Development Board reported on Sept. 24 that
industrial production climbed 8.1 percent in August from a year
earlier, after rising 9.9 percent in July. Factory output grew
49.8 percent in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  