-- South Africa at Risk From Surge in Capital Flows, Central Bank Report Says
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-07T13:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/south-africa-at-risk-from-surge-in-capital-flows-central-bank-report-says.html
South Africa may be at risk from
surging capital inflows, which can “create significant
volatility and instability,” the Reserve Bank said.  “There is a definite place” for authorities to consider
policy options in response to these rising flows, the central
bank said in its Financial Stability Review, released in the
capital, Pretoria, today.  Near-zero interest rates in the U.S., Japan and the euro-
zone have fuelled demand for high-yielding assets in South
Africa, which has a  benchmark interest rate  of 6 percent. That
boosted the rand to a 33-month high against the dollar today,
increasing demands for government action to curb the currency’s
gains and save  jobs .  “Capital inflows into domestic bonds and equities have
increased significantly, providing finance for the current
account deficit,” the Reserve Bank said. “Such inflows can,
however, create significant volatility and instability in the
event of a sudden stop or outflow of such funds.”  The rand gained as much as 0.4 percent to 6.8310 against
the dollar today and was trading at 6.8814 as of 2:18 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  Foreigners have bought a net 98.5 billion rand ($14.4
billion) of South African equities and bonds in the year through
Sept. 20, a “significant” increase compared with previous
years, the report said.  The World Bank yesterday also warned about the risks to
South Africa from the inflow of foreign money.  ‘Rush In, Rush Out’  “These capital flows are volatile and it is sometimes
difficult to manage them when they rush in and rush out just as
fast,” the World Bank’s Africa economist, Shanti Devarajan,
said. “The strategy there should be not necessarily to stop
these capital flows but shift their composition towards foreign
direct investment.”  South Africa relies on foreign purchases of stocks and
bonds to help finance its  current account deficit , the broadest
measure of trade in goods and services, which reached 2.5
percent of gross domestic product in the second quarter.  Brazil, Japan and South Korea are amongst countries that
have taken steps recently to curb currency gains. Finance
ministers attending the annual meetings of the International
Monetary Fund in Washington this week plan to discuss the
volatility in foreign exchange markets.  ‘Currency War’  “We’re seeing a currency war developing,” Hendrik Nel,
one of the authors of the Reserve Bank’s report, told reporters
and central bank officials in Pretoria today. “Excessive
capital flows are still taking place.”  The Reserve Bank has slowed the pace of dollar purchases
since 2009 as the cost of building foreign currency  reserves 
soared, causing the bank to post a loss of 1 billion rand in the
year through March.  Reserves have increased this year as the  National Treasury 
boosted its foreign currency deposits with the central bank,
while the bank began buying longer-dated dollar swaps in August
to improve its net reserves position.  Gold and foreign currency  reserves  increased 2.2 percent in
September from the previous month to $44.1 billion, the central
bank said today. The figure was boosted by record gold prices
and a weaker dollar, which raised the value of euro, pounds and
other currency holdings. The net forward position, which
indicates the bank’s purchases of longer-dated dollar swaps,
increased by $616 million in the month.  ‘Benign’  “With talk of so many other central banks being that much
more active in markets, South Africa’s defense against further
currency appreciation looks relatively benign,”  Razia Khan ,
head of Africa economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in
London, said in a note to clients.  The bank’s report also indicated that the financial strain
on consumers has eased as the economy recovered from last year’s
recession and interest rates were lowered by 6 percentage points
since December 2008.  Consumers account for two-thirds of expenditure in South
Africa and a rebound in spending may help to spur  economic
growth , which slowed to an annualized 3.2 percent in the second
quarter from 4.6 percent in the previous three months.  “Household balance sheets are on the mend and consumer
financial vulnerability is improving in general,” the Reserve
Bank said. “Growth in bank credit granted has begun to
increase, the growth rate in impaired advances is decelerating
and banks’ lending standards are showing signs of loosening.”  South Africa’s banking industry, dominated by  Standard Bank
Group Ltd. ,  FirstRand Ltd. ,  Absa Group Ltd.  and  Nedbank Group
Ltd. , remains well-capitalized, the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 