-- South African Business Confidence Reaches 2-Year High as Inflation Slows
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-10-07T11:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/south-african-business-confidence-reaches-2-year-high-as-inflation-slows.html
South African  business confidence 
rose to a two-year high last month as consumer demand picked up
and inflation slowed, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry said.  The Business Confidence Index rose to 87.8 in September,
from 87.6 the month before, the Johannesburg-based chamber said
in an e-mailed statement today. The index is compiled from 13
economic indicators including retail sales,  inflation , and
financial gauges, such as the stock index and the currency.  “The rand exchange rate, inflation, precious metal prices,
those are the strong contributors that stand out,” Chamber
Chief Executive Officer Neren Rau said in a phone interview from
Johannesburg.  South Africa’s rand in September gained 5.4 percent against
the dollar and 3 percent against the British pound even after
the country’s biggest trade deficit in six months was reported.
Foreign investors purchased a net 70.6 billion rand ($10.3
billion) of South African bonds and 19.8 billion rand of stocks
this year, according to data from the JSE Ltd., which runs the
exchanges.  The stronger rand has helped slow inflation in Africa’s
biggest economy to an annual 3.5 percent in August, a  4-1/2-year
low .  The chamber said it was concerned that confusion about the
future of economic policy may “compromise” business
confidence.  “Ill-conceived demands for debate around drastic economic
policy shifts contribute to confusion in the business
environment and deter foreign investors,” it said.  The ruling African National Congress earlier this month
said it will investigate ways of increasing state control of the
world’s most productive platinum and chrome mines, and banks and
energy businesses. President Jacob Zuma has repeatedly said that
nationalizing mines is not government policy.  “One gets particularly concerned about nationalization,”
Rau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 