-- Spending on Elderly Saps U.S. Savings, Economist Kotlikoff Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-07T18:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/spending-on-elderly-saps-u-s-savings-economist-kotlikoff-says-tom-keene.html
Elderly Americans’ growing
consumption of health care and Social Security benefits has
lowered national savings to unhealthy and unsustainable levels,
said  Laurence Kotlikoff , a Boston University economics
professor.  “The ratio of personal consumption to national income has
dramatically increased, and explains virtually all the decline
in the national savings rate,” Kotlikoff said in an interview
today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “If you ask
who within the household sector is consuming so much more, the
answer is the elderly.”  Kotlikoff, 59, said elderly Americans’ consumption has
more than doubled since the mid 1960s, in large part through
medical services. He said government social programs have
reduced the nation’s savings rate to negative two percent from
14 percent in 1965.  To foster investment in a healthy economy, the national
savings rate should be 10 percent, said Kotlikoff, who is the
author of numerous books, including his most-recent, “Jimmy
Stewart is Dead: Ending the World’s Ongoing Financial Plague
with Limited Purpose Banking.”  “The dissaving is a reflection of government fiscal
policy, which has been taking resources from young savers and
giving to old spenders,” Kotlikoff said.  Medicare Costs  Medicare, the U.S. government’s health plan for the elderly
and disabled, will run short of money in 2029 instead of 2017,
according to the report by the program’s trustees, including
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and Health and Human
Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius .  In 2009, Medicare covered 46.3 million beneficiaries and
paid $502 billion in benefits, the report said.  Medicare this year is projected to spend $534 billion, or
about 21 percent of total U.S. health expenditures. Medicaid is
expected to spend $427 billion, or 16 percent.  According to Bloomberg data published Sept. 9, Social
Security paid $57.4 billion in retirement, survivors’ and
disability benefits in August, providing an average payment of
$1,072 to 53.6 million beneficiaries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas R. Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  