-- Standard Chartered Supplants TD Securities as Top Forecaster of Currencies
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/standard-chartered-supplants-td-securities-as-top-forecaster-of-currencies.html
Standard Chartered Plc was the top
foreign-exchange forecaster for the six quarters ended Sept. 30,
up from second place in the previous period and supplanting TD
Securities Inc., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.K. bank prevailed over 43 other firms to be the most
accurate predictor of currencies across eight currency pairs,
with an average margin error of 3.79 percent. Westpac Banking
Corp. rose to second from ninth, while Wells Fargo & Co. stayed
third and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce held at the No. 4
slot. BNP Paribas SA moved to fifth from 10th.  “The last two years have been an exceptionally challenging
time to forecast Group of 10 exchange rates,”  Callum Henderson ,
global head of foreign-exchange research at Standard Chartered
in Singapore, said in a telephone interview. “You’ve had almost
unprecedented volatility in the G-10.”  Currency volatility averaged 13 percent in the 18-month
period covered by the Bloomberg News survey, according to the
 JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index . That compares with an average of
8.8 percent from 2003 through 2007. The Group of Seven
currencies include the U.S. dollar, euro, Canadian dollar,
Japanese yen and British pound.  In the 18 months covered by the ranking, the euro swung
from a 15-month high against the dollar in November 2009 to a
four-year low in June and back to a five-month high in September.
Europe’s currency climbed to $1.3948 on Oct. 6, its strongest
since Feb. 3, on signs the Federal Reserve will buy more bonds,
a strategy known as quantitative easing.  Euro Forecast  Standard Chartered forecasts that the euro will end the
year at $1.40, compared with $1.3901 at 11:31 a.m. in Tokyo. The
median year-end forecast for the currency pair is $1.32,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have the prospect of quantitative easing in the U.S.,
and obviously that’s a key driver,” Henderson said. “The one
place where it seems extremely unlikely is the euro zone.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Oct. 4 the central
bank aided the U.S. economy through its $1.75 trillion purchases
of mortgage debt and Treasuries that ended in March 2010 and
that further buying would be likely increase the benefit.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
Sept. 27 the Governing Council considers the current interest
rates “appropriate” for the inflation outlook.  “The rate of inflation could increase slightly in the
short term but should remain moderate over the policy-relevant
horizon,” Trichet said. The ECB’s benchmark interest rate of 1
percent compares with the Fed’s target range of zero to 0.25
percent.  Rating Criteria  Companies participating in the ranking were compared based
on seven criteria: six forecasts at the end of each quarter for
the close of the next, starting in March 2009, plus one annual
estimate, which was made at the end of September 2009 for
currency rates as of Sept. 30, 2010.  Only firms with at least four forecasts for a particular
currency pair were ranked for it, and only those that qualified
in at least five of eight pairs were included in the ranking of
best overall predictors.  Standard Chartered concentrates on the monetary policy
outlooks for central banks and the differences between interest
rates among countries. The U.K. bank derived 96 percent of its
profit before tax from outside Americas, U.K. and Europe in the
six months through June, according to its semi-annual report.  “We focused on what I would call ‘governing dynamics,’ to
quote  John Nash ,” Henderson said. “It’s been a story of
relative policy expectations.”  John Nash was awarded the 1994 Nobel Memorial Prize in
Economic Sciences with  Reinhard Selten  and  John Harsanyi .  Euro Bear  The ECB’s 22-member Governing Council convenes today in
Frankfurt. Policy makers will set the benchmark lending rate at
1 percent for an 18th month, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. Rates are forecast to remain at 1 percent
in the 16-nation region and at 0.25 percent in the U.S. through
mid-2011, separate Bloomberg News surveys show.  While Standard Chartered is bullish on the euro, BNP
Paribas is bearish. The firm expects the region’s fiscal crisis
will weigh on sentiment, driving the euro down to $1.23.  “We still believe the euro will come back under pressure
as fundamentals in the euro continue to deteriorate,” said  Ian Stannard , a senior currency strategist at the firm in London.  The euro area’s gross domestic product will grow 1.7
percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2001, compared with 2.6
percent in the U.S. for 2010 and 2.3 percent next year, the
 International Monetary Fund  said yesterday.  TD Securities was the most accurate forecaster in the prior
survey for the period ended June 30. At the time, the bank was
betting on further euro weakness, with the currency approaching
parity with the dollar as the ECB bought government bonds to
support the region’s economy.  The Toronto-based firm now expects the yen will end the
year at 85 to the dollar, according to chief currency strategist
 Shaun Osborne , from a previous call of 91. That compares with
82.92 against the greenback today and the median year-end
forecast of 86, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 