-- Statoil Aims to Raise Up to $850 Million in Fuel Unit Initial Share Sale
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-10-07T15:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/statoil-seeks-to-raise-up-to-853-million-in-fuel-unit-initial-share-offer.html
Statoil ASA , Norway’s largest oil and
gas company, aims to raise 3.84 billion kroner to 4.92 billion
kroner ($850 million) by selling shares in its gas station and
transport fuel unit.  Statoil will sell as many as 120 million stocks, or 40
percent of the share capital of Statoil Fuel & Retail ASA. They
will be offered at 32 kroner to 41 kroner each, the Stavanger-
based company said today. There will be an over-allotment option
of as much as 15 percent of the base deal.  The unit runs about 2,300 gas stations in eight countries,
including in Sweden, Norway and Poland and also supplies
lubricants, aviation and marine fuels. Its net income rose to
778 million kroner in the first half of this year from 38
million kroner a year earlier, it said in the prospectus.  “This transaction provides Statoil Fuel & Retail with a
strong platform for further growth and development,”  Helge Lund , chief executive officer of Statoil, said in the statement.
The company “will benefit from a new ownership structure.”  Statoil shares fell 1 krone, or 0.8 percent, to 126.9
kroner as of 5:30 p.m. in Oslo.  Statoil said the book building for the initial public
offering will start on Oct. 8 and the shares are expected to be
listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange on Oct. 22. It would be the
largest in Norway since Renewable Energy Corp.’s $1.12 billion
listing in May 2006.  Majority Shareholder  Statoil will be a majority shareholder at the time of the
IPO and listing, according to the statement. “The size and time
horizon of Statoil’s future ownership in SFR will be tailored to
support and develop company value both for SFR and for Statoil
ASA,” the company said.  Statoil Fuel & Retail CEO Jacob Schram said on a conference
call today that the company has a “strong” balance sheet and a
“robust” dividend capacity. The company intends to keep its
market leading position in Scandinavia and has a “well
established” and  “value enhancing” platform for growth in
central, eastern Europe, he said.  Statoil in 2006 sold its Irish service stations and fuel-
distribution unit. Oil companies such as  BP Plc  and Exxon Mobil
Corp. have sold gas stations in recent years to focus on
exploration.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  last year said it may sell
service stations in Sweden. Eni SpA agreed to buy Exxon’s supply
and distribution operations in Austria in January.  Managers  Statoil, which has operating rights on about 80 percent of
Norway’s oil and gas production, is raising funds to expand
abroad to counter dwindling North Sea reserves. Oil output
offshore Norway is forecast to drop 6 percent in 2010, declining
for a 10th year, according to the Petroleum Directorate.  ABG Sundal Collier Norge ASA and Citigroup Global Markets
Ltd. are acting as joint global coordinators and, together with
BofA Merrill Lynch as joint bookrunners, Nordea Markets is
senior lead manager and retail coordinator, while Barclays
Capital and Carnegie ASA are co-lead managers. Rothschild and
Arctic Securities are financial advisers to Statoil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Meera Bhatia  in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net ;
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  