-- Stick With U.S. Stocks as Companies Spend Record Cash, Oppenheimer Says
-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 2010-10-07T11:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/stick-with-u-s-stocks-as-companies-spend-record-cash-oppenheimer-says.html
Stocks are “attractive” and
investors should stay in the market to reap the rewards from
companies with records levels of cash on their balance sheets,
Oppenheimer & Co. said.  “We vehemently disagree with the notion” that “U.S.
stocks are no longer a viable long-term investment,”  Brian Belski , Oppenheimer’s chief investment strategist, wrote in a
note yesterday. Investors should “maintain a steady and
disciplined investment approach based on the fundamental merits
of each area of the market.”  Belski said investors will benefit as companies start to
use their cash stockpiles for hiring, investments, share
buybacks, dividend increases and acquisitions. He said much of
the profit growth coming out of the worst economic downturn
since the Great Depression was due to cost-cutting, while now,
sales increases are boosting results and companies should begin
putting their money to work.  Companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index are now
trading in a range of 14 to 16 times estimated  earnings , Belski
said, which is “no longer ‘cheap’ but still quite reasonable
from a historical perspective.” Comparing “forward earnings
yield to bond yields, stocks appear quite attractive,” he
added.  Cash Cushions  Executives have been hoarding cash to cushion their  balance
sheets  after almost $1.8 trillion in global writedowns and
credit-related losses since the financial crisis began. Free
 cash flow , or earnings minus capital expenses, for companies in
the S&P 500 has increased to $113 per share, the highest level
since at least 1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. buybacks are growing at the biggest rate ever, with
$270.5 billion in programs announced since January, compared
with $125 billion in all of 2009, according to research firm
Birinyi Associates Inc. The second quarter marked the first time
no S&P 500 company cut its dividend since 2004, Bloomberg data
show.  Oppenheimer is maintaining its year-end price target of
1,275 for the S&P 500, which would be a 9.9 percent gain from
yesterday’s  close  of 1,159.97, Belski said in the report. The
earnings-per-share estimate stays at $81. The firm continues to
prefer stocks over bonds, large stocks over small ones, and
value companies over growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joanna Ossinger in Hong Kong at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 