-- Sub-Saharan African Stocks: Kenya Power, Safaricom, Scangroup Are Active
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2010-10-07T17:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/sub-saharan-african-equities-kenya-power-lighting-safaricom-scangroup.html
Mauritius’s  SEMDEX Index  gained for a
fourth day, rising 0.1 percent to 1,783.55 by the 1:30 p.m.
close in Port Louis. That’s the highest since July 2008.  Kenya’s  All-Share Index  fell for the first day in three,
dropping less than 0.1 percent to 81.8 by 3 p.m. in Nairobi. The
 Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index  retreated for a second
day, decreasing 1.7 percent to close at 23,623.81 by 1 p.m. in
Lagos, according to the bourse’s website. Namibia’s  FTSE/Namibia
Overall Index  snapped three days of gains, falling 1.5 percent
to 805.23 by the 5 p.m. close in Windhoek. The  Ghana Stock
Exchange All-Share Index  slumped for the first time in three
days, slipping 1.9 percent to 6,691.57.  The following shares rose or fell in sub-Saharan Africa,
excluding South Africa. Stock symbols are in parentheses.  Kenya Power & Lighting Ltd.  (KPLL KN), the East African
nation’s monopoly power distributor, rose for the first time in
four days, climbing 6 shillings, or 2.5 percent, to 243
shillings. The company is planning a stock split under which
each share will be divided into eight before the end of the
year, Managing Director  Joseph Njoroge  said in a statement
published in the Nairobi-based Daily Nation newspaper today.
Directors also approved a rights offer under which holders will
be entitled to purchase 20 new shares for every 51 held, he
said.  Safaricom Ltd.  (SAFCOM KN), Kenya’s biggest mobile-network
operator, advanced for a fourth day, the longest streak of gains
since August, increasing 15 cents, or 3.2 percent, to 4.85
shillings, as investors’ concern over a price war with its
rivals dissipated,  George Bodo , a research and investment
analyst at Nairobi-based Genghis Capital Ltd., said by phone.  “The negative sentiment has faded away and the market has
realized the price war will not have as much impact as depicted
in the media,” he said. Safaricom reduced its call charges
after Telkom Kenya Ltd., Zain Kenya and Essar Telecom Kenya Ltd.
slashed prices by half in August.  Scangroup Ltd.  (SCAN KN), East Africa’s biggest advertising
company and Kenya’s best-performing stock this year, surged to a
record, rallying 6 shillings, or 8.6 percent, to 75.5 shillings,
the highest since the company’s shares started trading in August
2006, on bets its merger with Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide is
nearing completion.  “It has a lot to do with speculation on the merger which
will translate to massive earnings for the company,” Genghis
Capital’s Bodo said. “It could hit 100 shillings in the next
three months.” Scangroup joined Ogilvy & Mather Group Holdings
Ltd. to form a new unit known as Ogilvy Africa, a pan-African
joint venture, it said May 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  