-- Swap Trading Systems Should Be Broadest Possible, ISDA Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-10-07T15:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/swap-trading-systems-should-be-broadest-possible-isda-says.html
U.S. regulators should define a new
way of trading derivatives more broadly than any existing
exchange or system so that requirements mandated by financial
reform are as flexible as possible, according to Wall Street’s
swap industry and lobbying group.  The rules should also allow institutions that conduct
request-for-quote trades to qualify as swap execution
facilities, the International  Swaps and Derivatives Association 
said in a letter to regulators. Request-for-quote trades involve
an investor such as a hedge fund asking banks to compete against
one other to offer the best price based on terms given for the
transaction.  Congress gave the CFTC and SEC authority to define “swap-
execution facilities” when it passed the Dodd-Frank Act in
July. The facilities will be an alternative to regulated
exchanges where investors can trade interest-rate, credit-
default and other swaps.  “The definition of SEF thus encompasses all trading
facilities as a subset of swap execution facilities, indicating
that a greater variety of platforms and/or systems beyond
trading facilities, boards of trade and exchanges, should be
permissible for executing swaps,” ISDA said in the Oct. 1
letter to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and
 Securities and Exchange Commission .  Protecting Profits  The way credit-default or interest-rate swaps are allowed
to be traded under the new law is a contentious area of
regulation for banks because of the wide profit margin they make
by keeping their prices private. The definition of swap
execution facilities went through at least five changes from the
time the U.S. House of Representatives began deliberating
financial reform in 2009 to it becoming law three months ago.  Dodd-Frank  defines swap execution facilities as trading
systems that allow transactions to be done among multiple users
in the  $615 trillion  over-the-counter derivatives market.  Swap execution facilities “must include not just the many-
to-many platforms already included in the definition of ‘trading
facility,’ but also other kinds of platforms admitted by the
plain language of the definition, including, for example, RFQ
platforms,” ISDA Executive Vice Chairman  Robert Pickel  wrote in
the letter.  RFQ is the abbreviation for request for quote.  Need for Change  U.S. lawmakers sought to regulate swaps after the trades
complicated efforts to solve the financial crisis. In most cases
rule makers have until July 2011 to write the new guidelines,
which mandate that most interest-rate, credit-default and other
swaps be processed by clearinghouses after being traded on
exchanges or swap-execution facilities.  ISDA also said not all market users need be aware of a
trade in a swap execution facility for the SEF to meet the
multiple-users-to-multiple-users criteria.  Congress said a swap execution facility didn’t have to
adhere to “competitive” and “open” bidding rules that
exchanges are subject to, ISDA said.  “This supports the conclusion that a SEF need not require
participants to make bids and offers available to all other
participants,” the lobbying group said.  The new law also requires real-time price reporting of both
cleared and un-cleared swap trades, with the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission given the authority to create reporting
delays for block trades.  “In order for block trading to be a viable option, all
trades that are of a certain size or that are characterized by
lower liquidity must benefit from appropriate delays before
being made public to enable the liquidity provider or risk
intermediary to lay-off the associated risk without being
ambushed in the market,” ISDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 