-- Swedish Krona Jumps as Policy Maker Oeberg Says Interest Rates Should Rise
-- B y   T o b y   A l d e r   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-10-07T14:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/swedish-krona-jumps-as-policy-maker-oeberg-says-interest-rates-should-rise.html
Sweden’s krona rose the most in more
than two weeks against the euro after the central bank signaled
that it may increase interest rates in coming months.  The krona strengthened against all 16 of its most traded
counterparts as  Svante Oeberg , first deputy governor at the
Riksbank, said in a speech on the bank’s website that “we ought
to increase the repo rate in the months ahead as the Swedish
economy is developing so strongly.” The currency appreciated
versus the dollar to the highest level since September 2008.  “The Swedish krona is being helped by the Riksbank
governor’s comments,” said  John Hydeskov , an analyst at Danske
Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “We know that we will have higher
rates. Monetary policy is a very important factor and investors
have bought the krona because they know there’s no chance of
quantitative easing.”  The krona appreciated 0.8 percent against the euro to
9.2836 as of 4:19 p.m. in Stockholm. It earlier jumped 1
percent, the most since Sept. 20. The Swedish currency advanced
0.8 percent to 6.6626 per dollar, after strengthening to 6.6200.  Norway’s krone declined 1.1 percent to 8.1184 per euro and
weakened 1 percent against the dollar to 5.8231.  Norway’s central bank pushed back in June further rate
increases until December or January, citing “turmoil” in
financial markets that may delay a global recovery and hurt
Norwegian exports.  ‘On Hold’  “The Norges Bank has basically gone on hold,” Hydeskov
said. The krona has climbed 8.1 percent this year versus its
Norwegian counterpart.  Sweden, the largest Nordic economy, will deliver the
biggest economic rebound in the European Union this year as
 gross domestic product  expands 4.5 percent, the government said
Aug. 20. A report tomorrow will show industrial production
jumped more than 17 percent in August from a year earlier, the
median forecast of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg showed.  The Riksbank said last month the repo rate will average 2.1
percent in the third quarter next year and 3.1 percent a year
later, compared with 0.75 percent today. The bank expects the
rate to average 3.8 percent by the third quarter of 2013.  “Resource utilization is increasing, which will increase
inflationary pressures over time,” Oeberg said.  Policy makers at the Stockholm-based bank announce their
next rate decision on Oct. 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Toby Alder  in Stockholm at 
 talder@bloomberg.net .
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  