-- Swiss Market Index Climbs; Actelion and Swiss Re Shares Pace the Advance
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-10-07T16:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/swiss-market-index-climbs-actelion-and-swiss-re-shares-pace-the-advance.html
Swiss stocks rose for a third day on
continued expectation that central banks will keep monetary
stimulus to spur growth and avert gains in national currencies.  Actelion Ltd . jumped 5 percent on speculation  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co . bought shares and may make a takeover offer.  Swiss
Reinsurance Co.  rose the most in more than three weeks on
speculation that Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services may review
the reinsurer’ credit rating.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most
actively traded companies rose 0.4 percent to 6,375.58 at the
5:31 p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge has dropped 8.5 percent
from this year’s high on April 15 as concern re-emerged that a
sovereign-debt crisis in Europe will crimp economic growth and a
U.S. recovery is faltering. The broader  Swiss Performance Index 
added 0.4 percent today.  The Federal Reserve signaled in the past two weeks that it
may buy more assets to bolster U.S. growth, while the Bank of
Japan on Oct. 5 pledged to make further purchases. European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  today said he
supports a “strong dollar” and opposes “disorderly” shifts
in global exchange rates.  “It’s full way ahead to quantitative easing II in the
November meeting for the Fed and everyone else is either
enacting QE or talking about it,” said  Jonathan Plant , a
strategist at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London. “This is adding
ample liquidity into the system. The race to the bottom is
there.”  Actelion, Swiss Re  Actelion, Switzerland’s largest biotechnology company,
surged 5 percent to 44.70 francs. The Financial Times, citing
“market rumors,” reported today Bristol-Myers was buying
Actelion shares and would raise its stake above the 3 percent
level that would require the New York-based company to publicly
announce its holdings.  Roland Haefeli , a spokesman for Allschwil, Switzerland-
based Actelion and  Tracy Furey , a Bristol-Myers spokeswoman in
New York, declined to comment.  Swiss Re , the world’s second-largest reinsurer, rose 3.7
percent to 45.11 francs.  “One explanation of the share increase could be
speculation that S&P is planning to review Swiss Re’s rating,”
said  Roland Pfaender , an analyst with  Commerzbank AG  in
Frankfurt.  Swiss Re spokeswoman  Simone Lauper  declined to comment on
the share-price gain. Mark Coleman, a credit analyst at S&P in
London, also declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 merritt1@bloomberg.net . 