-- Symphony Capital Sued by Ex-Fund Manager Over Bonus
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-10-07T03:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/symphony-capital-sued-by-ex-asia-pacific-fund-ii-manager-over-unpaid-bonus.html
(Corrects reference to relationship between Symphony
 Capital Partners  and Symphony International Holdings in third
paragraph and removes references to investments in ninth
paragraph.)  Symphony Capital Partners Ltd.,  the
 Singapore  private equity firm that sold its stake in hospital
operator Parkway Holdings Ltd. in 2008, was sued by a former
partner who claims he was deprived of a share of the profit.  Sanjay Sehgal, who left Symphony in mid-2005 after almost
ten years with the firm, claims in his complaint he’s entitled
to a $4.4 million bonus, which includes a share of the profit
from the sale to Parkway. A hearing of the case began in
Singapore’s High Court today.  Sehgal’s bonus was rightfully reduced by 60 percent,
according to the terms of his contract, Symphony, whose
management team founded London-listed  Symphony International
Holdings Ltd. (SIHL) , said in court documents. Symphony Capital had
offered him $1.3 million, to be paid in June, ten years after
the fund that originally invested in Parkway closed.  Symphony Chairman Anil Thadani asked Sehgal to sign a
release which had “arbitrary, unreasonable and draconian”
terms before the $1.3 million bonus would be paid, according to
the lawsuit. Sehgal refused and sought to limit the terms of the
release, he said.  Thadani and Sehgal declined to comment.  Sehgal, who had been employed by LEK Consulting in the
U.S., said in the court documents his main inducement to joining
Symphony in 1994 was a promise that partners would share in 20
percent of the firm’s profits.  Asia Pacific Fund II  At Symphony, Sehgal managed the  Asia  Pacific Fund II and
Schroder Ventures Asia Pacific Fund, which invested in Asia’s
largest hospital operator Parkway. The Parkway stake was sold to
Khazanah Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s state investment arm for
S$532 million ($407 million) in 2008.  Sehgal set up the private equity fund East West Capital
Partners after leaving Symphony.  Thadani is one of the founders of the luxury Aman Resorts
hotel chain.  Suresh Damodara and Leonard Hazra represent Sehgal while
Eddee Ng is acting for Symphony.  The case is Sehgal Sanjay Kumar v Symphony Capital Partners
Ltd. S625/2009 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  