-- U.A.E. Interbank Lending Rates Drop as Dubai Debt Accord Boosts Confidence
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-10-07T09:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/u-a-e-interbank-lending-rates-drop-as-dubai-debt-accord-boosts-confidence.html
United Arab Emirates interbank rates
fell to an almost seven-month low after borrowing became cheaper
for lenders as the Dubai World debt restructuring progresses.  The U.A.E.’s 3-month  interbank offered rate  dropped to
2.25375 today, the lowest since March 16, reflecting an easing
of the shortage of deposits and willingness of banks to lend.
The rate banks charge each other has fallen for eight days.  There is “improved confidence with the improved Dubai
restructuring developments,” said  Monica Malik , Dubai-based
chief economist at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “The key issue for
banks is medium- and long-term liquidity rather than short-term,
this is where the tightness is most acute.”  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
holding companies, said Sept. 10 creditors holding more than 99
percent of the value of its loans approved a plan to alter the
terms on $24.9 billion of debt. The emirate last month received
orders of about $5 billion for a two-part bond sale in which it
raised $1.25 billion in its first sovereign issue since Dubai
World’s debt crisis.  U.A.E. banks are owed about 55 billion dirhams ($15
billion) by Dubai World, according to Moody’s Investors Service.
Dubai and its state-controlled entities borrowed $109 billion to
transform itself into a regional tourism and financial hub,
according to estimates by the Washington-based International
Monetary Fund. Developing-nation stocks plunged and the cost to
protect against a default by Dubai doubled after it said Nov. 25
it would seek to delay repaying loans.  Default Swaps  Credit default swaps tied to Dubai government debt narrowed
5 basis points to 380.5 yesterday, the lowest close since Nov.
24, according to CMA data on Bloomberg. The five-year contracts
rose to a record 977 basis points in February 2009, before the
U.A.E.’s central bank bought $10 billion of Dubai bonds.  Non-performing loans soared in the U.A.E. and across the
Gulf as economic growth slowed after the global credit crisis
sparked loan defaults. Provisions for bad loans at U.A.E. banks
rose 41 percent in August from a year ago to 37.2 billion
dirhams, according to the central bank.  As the credit crisis squeezed local banks, the U.A.E.
government guaranteed all local bank deposits and interbank
loans, created a 50 billion-dirham credit facility and said it
would pump 70 billion dirhams into banks. The central bank cut
its benchmark repurchase rate to 1 percent, while Abu Dhabi and
the federal government lent $20 billion to Dubai.  “The gap between loans and deposits has narrowed,” said
 Marios Maratheftis , chief regional economist at Standard
Chartered Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net  or
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 