-- U.K. Manufacturing Output Rises More Than Forecast in August
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-10-07T08:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/u-k-manufacturing-output-increases-more-than-forecast-on-food-transport.html
U.K.  manufacturing  rose more than
economists forecast in August as Bank of England policy makers
debate whether they need to boost stimulus to sustain the
recovery.  Output climbed 0.3 percent from the previous month, when it
gained a revised 0.4 percent, the Office for National Statistics
said today in London. The median forecast of 28 economists in a
 Bloomberg News survey  was for an increase of 0.2 percent. On the
year, production rose 6 percent, the most since December 1994.  The pound’s drop of about 20 percent on a trade-weighted
basis since the start of 2007 boosted demand for British goods
as the global economy recovered. Still, the International
Monetary Fund yesterday cut its world growth forecast for 2011,
and Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  has said the central
bank may need to buy more bonds to support the economy.  “The figures are an example of how the recovery is
continuing and perhaps becoming a bit more solid,” said  Philip Shaw , an economist at Investec Securities in London. “We may
see a slowdown in the coming months. Exports may soften as we
see economies such as those in Europe growing more moderately.”  The pound rose as much as 0.2 percent against the dollar
after the report. It traded at $1.5935 as of 9:42 a.m. in London
compared with $1.5890 yesterday.  Food Boost  Out of 13 categories of manufacturing, nine rose and four
declined, the statistics office said. The gain in August, which
pushed the index to its highest since November 2008, was led by
food, drink and tobacco, and transport and equipment. Paper,
printing and publishing had the biggest decline.  Leeds, England-based Northern Foods Plc, the U.K. maker of
Fox’s cookies, said on Oct. 5 that second-quarter comparable
revenue rose 7.1 percent after a 1.6 percent drop in the first
quarter.  The Bank of England will keep its  key interest rate  at 0.5
percent today, according to all 60 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The bank will also maintain its bond-purchase
plan at 200 billion pounds ($318 billion), a separate survey of
36 economists shows.  Policy makers may split three ways as they weigh the need
for more stimulus against risks of faster inflation. Posen said
last month the bank should consider restarting bond purchases,
conflicting with calls from his colleague  Andrew Sentance  to
raise the key rate. The central bank will announce its decision
at noon in London.  IMF Outlook  Overall  industrial production , which also includes
utilities, mining and quarrying and accounts for 17 percent of
the economy, rose 0.3 percent in August from July. Economists
predicted a 0.2 percent gain, the median of 29 forecasts in a
survey shows. From a year earlier, output was up 4.2 percent,
the biggest increase in almost 16 years.  Output in the mining and quarrying industry rose 0.4
percent on the month, while oil and gas production gained 0.5
percent. Utility output dropped 0.3 percent.  The International Monetary Fund said yesterday high
unemployment, public debt and a fragile banking system pose
risks to global prosperity. The Washington-based group cut its
forecast for growth next year to 4.2 percent from 4.3 percent
three months ago. It raised its projection for growth this year
to 4.8 percent from 4.6 percent.  While the U.K. economy grew at the fastest pace in nine
years in the second quarter, data since then has signaled the
recovery is cooling. Jobless claims rose in August and a
manufacturing index fell to a 10-month low in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  