-- U.K. Home Prices Plunged Record 3.6% in September, Halifax Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-07T12:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/u-k-september-house-prices-plunge-3-6-on-month-halifax-says.html
U.K. house prices  plunged in
September by the most since at least 1983, adding to evidence
that the housing market faces a renewed slump as the government
readies the biggest spending cuts since World War II.  The average cost of a home fell 3.6 percent from August to
162,096 pounds ($258,000), Halifax said in an e-mailed statement
today. That’s the biggest drop since the  mortgage  lending
division of Lloyds Banking Group Plc began its housing gauge in
1983. Property values were 0.7 percent lower than the same month
a year earlier.  “I think housing is already in a double dip,”  Alan Clarke , an economist at BNP Paribas in London, said in a
telephone interview. “We’re probably looking at house prices
being down 5 percent year-on-year by the middle of 2011. It’s
going to be very hard for the U.K. recovery to continue on an
upward sloping trajectory.”  The International Monetary Fund said yesterday that U.K.
house values remain “high” and may fall further as policy
measures might not be sufficient to support the property market.
The Bank of England today held its  main interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent and left its bond-purchase target at
200 billion pounds.  The pound, which fell after the report, was trading 0.7
percent higher against the dollar at $1.6004 as of 12:50 p.m.
today in London. Against the euro, sterling gained 0.3 percent
to 87.43 pence per euro.  Quarterly Drop  The average price in the three months through September was
0.9 percent lower than the previous quarter, the biggest
quarterly drop since June 2009, Halifax said.  “An increase in the number of properties available for
sale” and “renewed uncertainty about the economy and jobs has
caused  consumer confidence  to falter recently, dampening the
demand for home purchase,”  Martin Ellis , an economist at
Halifax, said in the statement. “Prospects for the housing
market remain uncertain.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said this week that Britain
needs to “face up to our financial responsibilities” by
curbing its record  budget deficit . Details of the expenditure
squeeze are due on Oct. 20.  “Earnings growth is expected to be very modest over the
next year, tax rises are on the way and more people are putting
their homes on the market,” Ellis said. “These will all be
constraints on the market, dampening house prices.”  Declining house values will add to pressure on consumers
and slow the economic recovery, BNP’s Clarke said.  “The consumer was always going to be facing a slow year
ahead because disposable income growth was going to slow, but
now they’re facing a double whammy of low disposable-income
growth and falling house prices,” the economist said.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest clothing
retailer, said today it is “cautious” on its outlook for sales
and that “trading conditions are likely to become more
challenging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  