-- U.K. Third-Quarter Growth Pace Halves to 0.5%, Institute Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-10-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/u-k-third-quarter-growth-pace-declines-by-more-than-half-institute-says.html
The U.K. economy’s pace of growth
dropped by more than half in the third quarter, the  National
Institute of Economic and Social Research  said.  Gross domestic product increased 0.5 percent in the three
months through September, compared with a 1.2 percent gain in
the quarter through June, the London-based group said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. Niesr’s clients include the Bank of
England and the British Treasury.  The U.K. central bank kept its  bond-purchase plan  at 200
billion pounds ($319 billion) and the key interest rate at a
record low yesterday as policy makers debated the need to expand
asset purchases to aid growth.  The recovery  may face headwinds
as global economy cools and the government implements the
biggest spending squeeze since World War II.  “A growth rate of 0.5 percent is below our estimate of the
economy’s underlying trend rate, and has come at a time when the
economy is still below capacity,” Niesr said in the statement.
“We do not expect output to pass its peak in early 2008 until
2012.”  Niesr produces its estimate each month after the Office for
National Statistics publishes manufacturing data, which
yesterday showed a 0.3 percent increase in August. The
statistics office will publish its own first estimate of third-
quarter growth on Oct. 26, six days after the government
announces details of its planned spending cuts to tackle the
record deficit.  Policy maker  Adam Posen  said last month that the nine-
member rate-setting panel should consider buying more government
bonds to prevent an extended period of slow growth from
inflicting permanent damage on the economy. His argument clashed
with the call by his colleague,  Andrew Sentance , to raise the
 key interest rate  from 0.5 percent to tame inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  