-- U.K. Gas to Fall From Double U.S. Price on Qatar: Energy Markets
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2010-10-08T15:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/u-k-gas-to-fall-from-double-u-s-price-on-qatar-energy-markets.html
U.K. natural gas may be poised to
lose its biggest premium in 19 months against New York-traded
supplies as Qatar begins projects to export liquefied fuel.  The Middle East emirate, the world’s biggest liquefied
natural gas producer, said Oct. 6 it plans to start two plants
by February, boosting export capacity by 15.6 million metric
tons, or about 25 percent of annual U.K. consumption. Qatar also
restarted as many as six units that were shut earlier this year
for maintenance amid a glut of the fuel.  The premium of front-month gas on London’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange relative to contracts on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose to $3.82 per million British thermal units at 4
p.m. in  London , its widest level since Feb. 9, 2009, amid record
demand for U.K. fuel supplies from European buyers. The average
difference this year has been $1.33 per million Btu.  “I would not expect the premium to continue to widen,”
said  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in
London. “The last Qatar LNG trains coming on stream in the
fourth quarter and early 2011 will also put pressure on the U.K.
price if they choose this market.”  Gas for next-month delivery at the U.K.’s National
Balancing Point traded at the equivalent of $7.489 per million
Btu at 4 p.m. in London, 39 percent higher than at the start of
the year. The next-month contract for  Henry Hub  in  Louisiana ,
the main delivery point for U.S. supplies, has declined 34
percent this year to $3.651.  U.K. gas hasn’t cost twice as much as U.S. supplies since
Jan. 30, 2009, after which it slid 38 percent by Feb. 16 as
milder-than-normal weather and the recession sapped demand.  ‘Run Too Far’  “The National Balancing Point-Henry Hub differential has
run too far,” Barclays Capital analysts led by Michael Zenker
in New York wrote in an Oct. 5 report. “Key to the rally of NBP
prices was also the slowing of LNG imports late in the spring as
Qatari shipments to the U.K. dropped off during a deep
maintenance season.”  Gas prices in Britain will average $5.62 per million Btu in
2011, reducing the spread to $1.52 next year, the bank forecast.
“Upcoming liquefaction plants and slowing global demand growth
next year point to no shortage of LNG supply in the Atlantic
Basin and in the U.K., in particular, in 2011,” Barclays said.  U.K. front-month gas has advanced 5.6 percent since Sept.
24 as exports to mainland  Europe  climbed to a record following
the reopening of Interconnector (U.K.) Ltd.’s 145-mile (230-
kilometer)  pipeline  to  Belgium  after two weeks of maintenance.  Record Exports  European buyers including GDF Suez SA, the owner of
Europe’s biggest natural-gas network, are increasing fuel
purchases on markets, foregoing more expensive supply under
contracts linked to the price of oil. Brent crude oil futures
have risen 24 percent over the past year to $83.43 a barrel.  Flows of gas from the U.K. to the rest of Europe rose to
about 59 million cubic meters on Oct. 5, the highest level since
the pipeline started in 1998, London-based Interconnector said
in an Oct. 6 e-mail.  Britain “will remain undersupplied as least through the
end of November and possibly December, as European demand
through the Interconnector remains strong,” Michael Hsueh in
London and Paris-based Mark C. Lewis, analysts at Deutsche Bank
AG, said in a Sept. 28 report. Increased imports from Qatar and  Norway  and withdrawals from storage will create an oversupply in
the first quarter, they said.  Qatar is seeking to boost LNG capacity to an annual 77
million tons from 14 production units, or trains. The final two
trains will start by February, Ahmed Yousf al-Khulaifi, chief
operating officer of Qatar Liquefied Gas Co., said Oct. 6. The
Persian Gulf country accounted for 20 percent of global exports
in 2009, according to BP Plc, Europe’s second-largest oil
company.  Oil-Linked Contracts  Qatar idled export plants this year to curtail supply amid
a global glut. The emirate sells most of its gas under multiyear
contracts, with the rest shipped to spot markets.  As much as 15.2 million tons of LNG has been contracted for
sale by Qatar to the U.K. in 2011, up from 13 million this year,
according to statistics by state-owned Qatar National Bank.  The U.K. is Europe’s biggest gas market. LNG and Norwegian
gas shipped into Britain can be transported through the
Interconnector to clients in France and  Germany . With North Sea
fields ageing, the government predicts the U.K. gas market will
be entirely dependent on imports by 2030.  “North-Sea gas supply is probably in an irreversible
decline,” said  Cameron Horwitz , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity
in Houston. In the U.S., “we do not have to import given the
proliferation of the gas-shale technology.”  Shale Gas  Gas shipments to the U.S. will be 1.25 billion cubic feet a
day this year, the Energy Department in  Washington  said on Sept.
8, down from the 1.83 billion it  forecast  in February.
Production will rise 2.1 percent to 61.21 billion cubic feet a
day this year, the highest level since 1973, it said.  The number of horizontal rigs in the U.S., which are mostly
used in shale-gas drilling, was a record 912 in the past two
weeks, according to Houston-based Baker Hughes Inc.  Production from shale wells rose 71 percent in 2008 from a
year earlier to 2.02 trillion cubic feet, according to  Energy
Department data . It will account for 34 percent of output in
2035, doubling from 17 percent in 2008, the data show.  “U.S. prices are largely not showing strength because of
surplus production, and that situation is not getting any
better,” said Teri Viswanath, a director of commodities
research at Credit Suisse Securities USA in Houston.  “Europe is generally over-supplied,” he said. “The only
issue is there are fewer suppliers in the room, so they can keep
that market somewhat balanced.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Verdonck in London at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net 
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  