-- U.S. Two-Year Treasury Yields Match Record Low Before This Week's Job Data
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-07T11:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/u-s-2-year-treasury-yields-fall-to-record-low-before-this-week-s-job-data.html
U.S. two-year Treasury yields fell to
a record low amid speculation the Federal Reserve will resume
asset purchases under its quantitative-easing plan, aiming to
boost growth as job data points to a slowing economic recovery.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note stayed near the
lowest since January 2009 before reports today and tomorrow that
economists estimate will show initial claims for jobless
insurance increased and the unemployment rate rose. The bonds
were little changed before the U.S. says today how much it will
raise in sales of three-, 10- and 30-year debt next week.  “We’re switching to wait-and-see mode before the jobs
reports,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at
WestLB AG in Dusseldorf, Germany. “So much QE has already been
priced into the market, so there is a belief that there’s the
potential for a setback” should the data fail to meet analyst
estimates, he said.  Benchmark 10-year note rates were little changed at 2.39
percent as of 12:21 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor Market
Data. The yield reached 2.355 percent yesterday. The 2.625
percent security maturing in August 2020 rose 3/32, or $0.94 per
$1,000 face amount, to 102 3/32.  The two-year yield was at 0.367 percent, a record low,
according to Bloomberg generic data.  Yields slid this week as investors bet the Fed will follow
the Bank of Japan in purchasing more bonds, a strategy known as
quantitative easing. New York Fed President  William Dudley , the
Boston Fed’s  Eric Rosengren  and Chicago’s  Charles Evans  all
advocated further action. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct.
4 that restarting large-scale asset purchases would probably
spur growth. He also said last week the bank has a duty to aid
the economy as unemployment holds near 10 percent.  Treasuries Rally  The central bank bought $1.7 trillion worth of Treasury and
mortgage debt in a program that ended in March.  Treasuries rallied yesterday after a report showing an
unexpected decrease in U.S. jobs fueled speculation the Fed will
decide to buy more debt as soon as its next meeting on Nov. 2 to
Nov. 3. Employment data due tomorrow from the Labor Department
is forecast to show there was no change in overall payrolls last
month and that the unemployment rate rose to 9.7 percent, from
9.6 percent in August, according to Bloomberg surveys. U.S.
initial jobless claims increased by 2,000 to 455,000 in the week
ended Oct. 2, according to a separate Bloomberg survey before a
report today from the department.  U.S. and global bond markets are “some distance” from a
bubble after this year’s rally, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  “Conditioned on the current, relatively weak,
macroeconomic background and assuming that short-term policy
rates are ‘appropriate,’ our models suggest that the major bond
markets are some distance from being in a bubble,” London-based
analysts  Aqib Aslam  and  Michael Vaknin  said in a report dated
yesterday.  German Bunds  Treasuries returned 9.4 percent so far this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds handed investors a
9.5 percent profit and U.K. gilts advanced 10 percent.  The U.S. will probably sell $32 billion of three-year
notes, $21 billion of 10-year debt and $13 billion of 30-year
bonds, according to Wrightson ICAP LLC, the economic advisory
company in Jersey City, New Jersey, that specializes in U.S.
government finance.  The $66 billion total compares with $67 billion the last
time the Treasury sold this combination of securities in
September.  The extent to which Fed bond-buying will influence
financial conditions is a “major unknown,” said  Tony Crescenzi , a strategist at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s biggest bond fund.  ‘Major Unknown’  “The efficacy of QE in particular represents a major
unknown even for the Fed, as few truly know the effect that a
given amount of QE will have on financial conditions,” Pimco’s
Crescenzi wrote in a note to clients yesterday in the U.S. “Few
truly know the impact that any loosening of financial conditions
will have on the economy.”  The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, was at 1.95 percentage points after it
widened to a three-month high yesterday of 1.99 percentage
points. The five-year average is 2.10 points.  Central bank purchases don’t automatically send prices
higher.  Treasuries handed investors a 3.7 percent loss last year,
the first annual decline since 1999, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes, as the Fed snapped up $300
billion of government securities.  Corporate debt is an alternative to government securities,
 Manfred Burger , senior bond analyst at ABN Amro Private Banking,
wrote in the company’s outlook for the fourth quarter.  Investors should have an “underweight” position in
sovereign debt, according to ABN, which oversees $200 billion
and is based in Amsterdam.  “With the prospect of interest rates being higher in the
months ahead as our main scenario, the potential for extended
fixed-income capital gains within this bond category is
limited,” Burger wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 