-- Pakistan Supply Route Stays Shut as U.S. Works to Ease Tensions
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-10-07T23:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/u-s-downplays-pakistan-tensions-after-strike-as-supply-route-stays-shut.html
Pakistan kept a major conduit for
Afghan war supplies closed as the U.S. worked to ease tensions
with its ally by issuing public apologies for a Sept. 30 air
strike that killed two Pakistani soldiers.  Admiral  Michael Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, was the latest Obama administration figure to express
regret for the helicopter attack. Mullen’s letter this week to
the Pakistani Army chief of staff, General Ashfaq  Parvez Kayani ,
followed apologies from U.S. Ambassador  Ann Patterson  and the
Afghanistan war commander, Army General David Petraeus.  The U.S. will take the strike “very seriously and our most
senior commanders in theater will review the investigation
thoroughly with an eye toward avoiding recurrence of a tragedy
like this,” Mullen said in the message, made public yesterday.  The clash has heightened strains in the relationship with
Pakistan, the most important U.S. ally in the Afghan war, as a
White House report said Pakistan continues to dodge direct
confrontation with insurgents threatening U.S. troops across the
border. Lawmakers are demanding the administration push Pakistan
to do more in the war against militants who may be plotting
attacks in Europe and the U.S.  Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin  said
yesterday he is more concerned that Pakistan isn’t pursuing
militants within its borders more aggressively than with the
flap over the border crossing.  “The people who are there are killing our troops,” Levin,
a Michigan Democrat, said in an interview yesterday. “You’ve
got to continue to put maximum pressure on Pakistan.”  Conflict Avoidance  The White House report to Congress found that Pakistan’s
military during the first eight months of 2010 continued to
avoid direct conflict with Afghan Taliban fighters inside
Pakistan or al-Qaeda forces in Northern Waziristan.  “Gross” human rights violations continue, although there
is evidence the military has made “initial efforts to stop
these abuses,” the study said.  The Obama administration, in addition to authorizing 30,000
more troops for Afghanistan in December, is seeking more
Pakistani military operations to prevent the Taliban and al-
Qaeda from crossing into eastern Afghanistan. The White House
scheduled a Dec. 1 review to determine whether U.S. strategy is
working.  “We’re not going to be able to rely on them if they don’t
take stronger actions,” Levin said of Pakistan. “It makes it
much more difficult to move in the direction we want to move
with them.”  Ashley Tellis, a senior associate in the South Asia Program
at the  Carnegie Endowment for International Peace  in Washington,
said Levin is right to push for greater contributions from
Pakistan, although such pressure may not succeed.  Nuclear Concern  While “the U.S. has considerable leverage with Pakistan,”
Tellis said in an interview, it is afraid that pressuring
Pakistan will lead the South Asian nation “to do something
reckless in terms of terrorism or nuclear activity, and those
fears circumscribe our ability to do anything.”  Pakistan, like its neighbor India, is armed with nuclear
weapons.  Teresita Schaffer , a former assistant secretary for South
Asia at the State Department, said in an interview that the
administration is taking the best approach to the air strike and
the closed crossing, given longer-term U.S. goals.  The U.S. believes “that it can’t end up with an acceptable
situation in Afghanistan unless Pakistan is a cooperating
partner,” said Schaffer, who heads the South Asia program at
the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington
policy group. “And something like 80 to 90 percent of the
supplies for the troops go through Pakistan,” Schaffer added.  “For that reason the administration is trying to work
toward a position where Pakistan will be seen to be opening the
crossing of its own accord, rather than being bludgeoned into
it,” Schaffer said.  Khyber Pass  Pakistan closed the Khyber Pass route into Afghanistan
after the attack by U.S. helicopters.  Since Pakistan closed the border crossing, Taliban
guerrillas have claimed responsibility for four assaults that
have left tankers parked along the route ablaze.  Most of the 580 daily truckloads of supplies and fuel
contracted to supply the 142,000  North Atlantic Treaty
Organization  troops fighting the Afghan Taliban cross the
Torkham gate.  Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell  this week sought to play
down the impact of the week-long border closure and the militant
attacks. He cited other supply routes to Afghanistan that remain
open and said the situation hasn’t “in any way adversely
impacted our ability to supply our forces.”  Pakistani officials said there was no date to reopen the
crossing. “Our official position is that as soon as our
security has determined the security situation is good enough to
reopen, we will reopen,” said Nadim Kiani, a Pakistani Embassy
spokesman in Washington. “As of now, I can’t give you a date.”  A joint U.S.-Pakistani investigation established that the
U.S. helicopters that fired on the Pakistani Frontier Scouts
mistook them for insurgents, the U.S. Embassy in Kabul said in a
statement.  Initial reports indicated three Pakistani soldiers had been
killed. The joint investigation determined that two had been
killed and four injured.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  