-- Health-Care Law Upheld as Constitutional by Judge in First Legal Victory
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-07T21:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/u-s-judge-upholds-health-reform-law-as-constitutional-in-michigan-ruling.html
A U.S. judge upheld the
constitutionality of the health-care overhaul President  Barack Obama  signed in March, rejecting an argument by a self-described
Christian law center in the first court victory for the new law.  U.S. District Judge  George Caram Steeh  in Detroit today
denied the  Thomas More Law Center ’s request for an injunction
against the law and said the group failed to prove the statute
is unconstitutional under the Commerce Clause. Steeh also
rejected a challenge to the provision that imposes a financial
penalty for having no insurance.  “The minimum coverage provision, which addresses economic
decisions regarding health-care services that everyone
eventually, and inevitably, will need, is a reasonable means of
effectuating Congress’s goal,” Steeh wrote.  Today’s court ruling is the first to uphold the
constitutionality of the law, which Michigan and 20 other states
are challenging in separate lawsuits. A U.S. judge in Virginia
already has refused to dismiss a claim seeking to overturn the
law, and a federal judge in Florida said he is inclined to do
the same.  Steeh rejected claims by the U.S. that the Thomas More
center didn’t have standing and that the case wasn’t ready for
litigation. The government had said the court had no
justification for hearing the lawsuit because the insurance
requirement won’t take effect until 2014.  ‘Essential Part’  “It certainly appears that the government has an interest
in knowing sooner, rather than later, whether an essential part
of its program regulating the national health care market is
constitutional, although in this case it is not the government
asking for the review,” Steeh wrote.  Robert Muise, an attorney for Thomas More, said he will
appeal today’s ruling. The center, based in Ann Arbor, Michigan,
is dedicated to the “defense and promotion of the religious
freedom of Christians,” according to its website.  The law center, the plaintiff in the Michigan case along
with four uninsured individuals, argued before Steeh in July
that the statute creates a tax, in the form of compulsory
insurance, that Congress lacks the power to enact. The center
also claimed the law would violate religious freedoms by using
its members’ tax dollars to pay for abortions.  ‘Reasonable Means’  “The court found that the minimum coverage provision of
the statute was a reasonable means for Congress to take
in reforming our health-care system,”  Tracy Schmaler , a
spokeswoman for the Justice Department in Washington, said in an
e-mailed statement. “The department will continue to vigorously
defend this law in ongoing litigation.”  States seeking to overturn the law, including Michigan,
claim its requirement that Americans buy health insurance
exceeds the authority given to Congress by the Constitution. The
U.S. contends Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce
allows it to impose mandatory insurance premiums because $43
billion in unpaid medical bills are absorbed each year into a
national market.  A federal judge in Pensacola, Florida, has said he will
decide by next week whether to throw out that state’s lawsuit
challenging the law. He said he probably will allow at least
part of it to proceed. Michigan is a plaintiff in that case.  Another suit, brought in Virginia, survived an initial
motion to dismiss and faces further arguments on Oct. 18.  The case is Thomas More Law Center v. Obama, 10cv11156,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 