-- SEC Is Stepping Up Enforcement Against Municipal Issuers, Greenberg Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/u-s-regulator-steps-up-enforcement-against-muni-issuers-greenberg-says.html
Municipal bond issuers must step up
compliance with federal securities laws to protect individual
investors or face enforcement action, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s Elaine Greenberg said.  “They need to be aware that the SEC is out there looking
to protect the interests of these bondholders,” Greenberg,
chief of the SEC’s municipal securities and public pensions
unit, said yesterday at a public finance conference in San
Francisco.  “If we find that you hid or misrepresented material
information to these investors, we will be holding you
accountable and you may find yourself being the defendant in an
enforcement action,” Greenberg said.  New Jersey in August settled claims that it misled
investors in $26 billion of municipal bonds by masking
underfunding of its two biggest pension funds in the first SEC
case to target a state. It marked an early salvo in the agency’s
plan to crack down on fraudulent practices in the $2.8 trillion
municipal bond market.  The SEC in January appointed Greenberg, an SEC enforcer for
20 years, to head one of five task forces created after the
global credit crisis and the SEC’s failure to detect Bernard
Madoff’s $65 billion Ponzi scheme.  SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro has pressed for tougher
disclosure rules for municipal bonds, whose history as a safe
investment has been jeopardized by dwindling tax collections and
record budget deficits by states and rising defaults by local
borrowers.  “We need to be out there sending a message to the market
participants, especially the issuers of municipal bonds really,
that they need to be out there taking seriously their
obligations under the federal securities laws,” Greenberg said.  Individual investors represent more than 70 percent of the
market and household ownership of municipal bonds just topped $1
trillion, Greenberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 