-- U.S. Says Inter-Korean Dialogue `First Step' to Resuming Six-Party Talks
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-10-07T02:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/u-s-says-inter-korean-dialogue-first-step-to-resuming-six-party-talks.html
South Korea’s resumption of
discussions with North Korea is the “first step” toward
reconvening multinational talks on dismantling the communist
regime’s nuclear weapons program, a U.S. envoy said.  “The first step has to be re-engagement between North
Korea and South Korea,” Kurt Campbell, assistant secretary of
state for East Asia, told reporters today in Seoul, when asked
about the possibility of disarmament talks resuming. “We are
also looking for a clear and demonstrable commitment on the part
of the North Koreans.”  North Korea proposed several levels of talks with the South
in the past month in what appeared to be a bid to defuse
tensions heightened when it was accused of torpedoing a South
Korean warship in March. These attempts at dialogue also came
ahead of last week’s ruling party congress, where ruler  Kim Jong Il ’s youngest son,  Kim Jong Un , was given leadership positions
for the first time, signaling succession preparations.  “The critical component in terms of developments on the
Korean peninsula in the current environment is to see re-
engagement between North and South Korea,” Campbell said today.
Speaking in Tokyo yesterday, he called it “too soon to make any
judgment” on Kim Jong Un’s elevation as heir apparent.  South Korea and North Korea agreed last week to hold
reunions of families separated since their 1950-53 war between
Oct. 30 and Nov. 5. The two countries also held their first
military talks in almost two years on Sept. 30, which ended
without any progress after North Korea refused to acknowledge it
sank the warship Cheonan, killing 46 sailors.  North Korea said it was willing to return to six-party
disarmament talks after the United Nations in July condemned the
March 26 sinking without naming a culprit. The country had
abandoned the talks, demanding that UN sanctions imposed for its
nuclear tests in 2006 and 2009 be removed first.  The six-party talks, which also include China, Japan,
Russia and South Korea, last met in December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  