-- U.S. Consumer Borrowing Fell in August on Drop in Credit Cards
-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 2010-10-07T19:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/u-s-consumer-borrowing-fell-in-august-on-decline-in-credit-card-purchases.html
Consumer borrowing declined in August
as Americans trimmed credit-card balances, showing consumers
remained reluctant to take on more debt as joblessness climbed.  Credit  declined by $3.34 billion after falling a revised
$4.09 billion in July, more than the previous estimate,
according to a Federal Reserve report released today in
Washington. Credit-card debt decreased for the 24th consecutive
month.  The  unemployment rate  increased to 9.6 percent in August,
the first gain in four months, and economists project a report
tomorrow will show it rose again last month. A lack of jobs is
restraining consumer spending, which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy.  “People are spending cautiously and getting their debts
down,” said  Gary Thayer , chief macro strategist at Wells Fargo
Advisors in St. Louis. “It’s holding back the economy, but it’s
good for the long-run.”  The median  forecast  of 39 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News forecast a $3.5 billion decline in the measure of credit
card debt and non-revolving loans. Estimates ranged from a
decrease of $7.5 billion to a $1.8 billion gain.  Stocks held earlier losses after the report. The Standard &
Poor’s 500  Index  fell 0.2 percent to 1,158.22 at 3:16 p.m. in
New York. Treasury securities were little changed.  Fewer Claims  A report from the Labor Department today showed
applications for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last
week to the lowest level in three months, indicating the labor
market may be thawing.  Jobless claims  dropped by 11,000 to
445,000 in the week ended Oct. 2, the fewest since July 10.  Revolving debt, which includes credit cards, fell $4.99
billion in August, according to the Fed’s report. Non-revolving
debt, including loans for cars and mobile homes, rose $1.65
billion for the month. The report doesn’t track debt secured by
real estate, such as home-equity lines of credit.  Credit-card delinquencies fell in August as major issuers
posted improved numbers, according to a Moody’s Investors
Service report issued Sept. 27. The top six credit-card issuers,
including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and
Citigroup Inc., all reported lower delinquencies for August in
regulatory filings.  Some companies are seeing improvement in spending. Discover
Financial Services, the payments processor, posted third-quarter
profit that exceeded most estimates. “Discover card spending
continued to grow nicely this quarter,” Chief Executive Officer
 David Nelms  said in the statement issued Sept. 20.  The jobless rate increased to 9.7 percent last month as the
year-old economic recovery didn’t generate enough jobs to keep
up with a growing labor force, according to the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a Labor Department
report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Del Giudice  in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  