-- Ukraine Introduces Quotas on Grain Exports to Hold Down Domestic Prices
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2010-10-07T14:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/ukraine-plans-to-introduce-limits-on-grain-exports-deputy-minister-says.html
Ukraine, the world’s largest barley
exporter, introduced quotas on outbound shipments of all grains
to ensure food security and cap domestic prices, First Deputy
Prime Minister  Andriy Klyuev  said.  The curbs will probably run through the end of this year,
he told reporters today in Kiev, adding that corn shipments will
be capped at 2 million metric tons and wheat and barley at
500,000 tons each.  Ukraine is limiting shipments after drought-hit Russia
banned all grain exports until after next year’s harvest. The
Ukrainian customs service since July imposed additional controls
on grain-hauling ships that resulted in delayed deliveries and
lower domestic cereal prices.  The government is trying to combat  inflation , which jumped
to 10.5 percent in September, the highest since March, fueled by
the cost of food. Food prices climbed 13.2 percent in September
from the same month a year earlier, after rising 8.8 percent in
August, the state statistics committee said yesterday.  The government sees inflation at 12 percent this year and
“is ready to use administrative and regulatory tools” to
combat price growth, First Deputy Economy Minister  Anatoliy Maksyuta  said on Oct. 5. Ministers are seeking to cap prices as
elections for regional and district authorities scheduled to
take place on Oct. 31 draw closer.  “Calculations have shown that certain limits are necessary
in order to form a food resource,” Deputy Agriculture Minister
 Serhiy Melnyk  said today in an interview. Melnyk said Ukraine
has already exported more than 4 million tons of grain since the
marketing year began on July 1.  Winter Grains  If state reserves “complete necessary purchases soon, we
will be able to lift the quotas before the end of the year,”
Klyuev said.  Ukraine’s Agriculture Ministry forecasts a grain harvest of
almost 38.6 million tons this year, Anatoliy Rozgon, head of the
agriculture-markets department, said on Sept. 15. The cabinet
cut its forecast after dry summer weather damaged crops.  Farmers have sown more than 6 million hectares (14.8
million acres) with winter grains, Melnyk said. He stuck to a
goal for seeding 8.5 million hectares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 