-- Hungary Toxic Sludge Reaches Danube at `Favorable' Alkalinity
-- B y   B a l a z s   P e n z   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-10-07T20:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/hungary-toxic-sludge-enters-danube-environmental-damage-may-be-limited.html
Hungary’s toxic-sludge spill, which
killed four people and injured more than 100, reached the Danube
river today. Officials said environmental damage may be limited
because the level of alkalinity is “favorable.”  Alkalinity was measured at 9.3 on the 14-point pH scale at
the point where the contamination entered the Danube, said Timea
Petroczi, a spokeswoman for the country’s  emergency services .
The pH level is 13 at the site of the spill, according to
Hungary’s MTI news service.  “There is a good chance that the aquatic flora and fauna
of the Danube and Raba rivers will be able to make it through
this contamination,” Petroczi said. “The pH value is quite
favorable. Gypsum and acid is continually being added.”  Hungary today activated the European Union’s Civil
Protection Mechanism as it seeks “urgent international
assistance” in dealing with the spill.  The country needs three to five experts to assist with
pollution caused by the spill. They must have “strong field
experience in handling toxic sludge, decontamination and
mitigation of environmental damage,” the European Commission
said in an e-mailed statement.  More than 1 million cubic meters (35 million cubic feet) of
sludge spilled this week when a reservoir at  Magyar Aluminium
Zrt. , or Mal, burst 160 kilometers (100 miles) southwest of
Budapest. The red-colored sludge, a byproduct of alumina
production, flooded the settlement of Devecser and two nearby
villages in what local authorities say is an “ecological
disaster.”  Chemical Burns  “It doesn’t make sense” to rebuild some of the buildings
damaged by the spill, because their residents don’t want to move
back to the affected area, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said
today after visiting one of the villages, MTI reported. The
government should help those who want to relocate, he said.  Contact with the undiluted sludge causes chemical burns,
and several people have suffered eye damage, MTI said. While the
sludge is a slightly radioactive, the radiation is “well below
the dangerous level,” Orban said Oct. 5.  Hungarian financial markets haven’t been affected by the
leak. The benchmark  BUX stock index  rose 0.6 percent, gaining
for a fourth day after drugmaker Gedeon Richter Nyrt. bought
PregLem Holding SA of Switzerland. The forint weakened to 274.49
per euro from 270.93 as investors await details of the
government’s plan to cut the budget deficit. The yield on the
benchmark five-year government bond rose to 6.518 percent from
6.479 percent.  Negligible Effect  “This is negligible on a macroeconomic level,” said
 Zoltan Torok , an economist at Raiffeisen International Bank-
Holding AG in Budapest.  The spill triggered the early warning system of the
International Commission for the Protection of the Danube,
Executive Secretary Philip Weller said yesterday. The warning
means that factories and towns along the Danube may have to stop
taking water from the river.  The sludge initially flowed into the River Marcal, part of
the Danube’s tributary system. There is “very little chance”
that the Marcal’s wildlife will survive, Petroczi said today.  The Marcal flows into the Raba, which reaches the  Danube  at
Gyor, halfway between Vienna and Budapest. The river reaches
Croatia about 250 kilometers (155 miles) south of the Hungarian
capital, then travels through Serbia, Bulgaria, Moldova, Ukraine
and Romania before reaching the Black Sea.  Serbian Concern  Neighboring Serbia and Bulgaria are monitoring the
situation closely and carrying out water tests, officials from
the two countries said. While the sludge is likely to reach
Romania in five days, the toxic material will be diluted by that
time, the country’s  Environment Ministry  said today on its
website.  Public concern is on the rise in Serbia, Deputy Minister
for Environment Nebojsa Pokimica said. Authorities will
immediately shut down water intake if the spill descends to the
country’s 588 kilometer-long stretch of the river.  The Danube’s pH level can be reduced to a “completely
normal” level before it leaves Hungary, Petroczi said. Pure
water has a level of 7. Anything higher is alkaline, and
anything less is acidic.  Magyar Aluminium, a closely held company, said a wall of
the reservoir slipped on its clay base, causing it to burst. The
material isn’t considered toxic under EU rules, the company said
in a statement on its  website . Magyar Aluminium said it had no
way of predicting the accident.  Technical Experts  The London-based  International Aluminium Institute  pledged
to “seek the availability of technical experts to complement
the staff and experts available from Mal and local agencies.”  Magyar Aluminium accounted for 0.3 percent of global
aluminum output in 2009, producing 300,000 metric tons,
according to the International Aluminium Institute. Aluminum for
immediate delivery on the London Metal Exchange gained 0.7
percent to $2,346.75 a metric ton on Oct. 5 and is trading at
$2,343, up 0.5 percent at 4:41 p.m. today.  Hungarian authorities have started a criminal investigation
into the accident, Interior Minister  Sandor Pinter  said at a
press conference in Budapest this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Balazs Penz  in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 