-- Hungarian Forint Weakens as Investors Await Details of 2011 Deficit Plan
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-07T11:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/hungarian-forint-weakens-as-investors-await-details-of-2011-deficit-plan.html
The Hungarian forint weakened as
investors awaited details of the plan to reduce next year’s
budget after pushing the currency to the strongest level in five
months.  The forint slid 0.9 percent to 273.40 per euro as of 12:58
p.m. in Budapest. It rallied to as strong as 268.73 against the
common currency yesterday and the forint’s 14-day relative
strength index hovered above 70 for four days through yesterday,
a technical level used by technical analysts to determine
whether a currency is overbought versus the euro.  The forint has been the best performer among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg since Sept. 8,
when the Hungarian cabinet committed to a deficit of no more
than 3 percent of gross domestic product. It previously sought
to raise budget-deficit targets set in a 20 billion-euro ($27.4
billion) bailout with the International Monetary Fund and the
European Union in 2008.  “People are lightening up their positions after a good
run,”  Manik Narain , an emerging-markets currency strategist at
UBS AG, said by phone from London. “We will need to see some
details on the future fiscal policy to maintain this rally. We
know they want to reduce the deficit next year but we don’t know
how they are going to achieve that.”  The government is planning to increase the minimum wage,
child support benefits and introduce a flat personal income tax
rate at 16 percent next year, Index.hu reported yesterday,
without saying how it got the information.  Special Levy  The measures will be offset by a special levy imposed on
telecommunication companies, an excise-tax increase, extending a
special tax on the energy companies and reducing the number of
people eligible for tax breaks under rules planned to be in
effect through 2013, Index said. The government of Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  has until the end of the month to present
the next year’s budget to parliament.  The deficit pledge hasn’t removed the threat to Hungary’s
credit rating because the government hasn’t clarified its
economic policies, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors
Service said Sept. 15.  Orban won local balloting on Oct. 3 freeing him from
electoral pressures until 2014. He also achieved two-thirds of
the seats in parliament during April elections in which he
promised to end five years of austerity and spur economic growth
after Hungary’s worst recession in 18 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  