-- UniCredit Said Unlikely to Merge Pioneer With Partner This Year
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-10-07T14:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/unicredit-said-to-be-unlikely-to-merge-pioneer-with-partner-by-end-of-year.html
UniCredit SpA , Italy’s largest bank,
is unlikely to agree on a merger partner for its Pioneer asset-
management unit before the end of the year as it plans
discussions with at least four candidates, said two people with
direct knowledge of the talks.  UniCredit is seeking a strategic partner for  Pioneer Global
Asset Management  and plans to remain a stakeholder after
combining the businesses, said the people who declined to be
identified before the process is official. The deal would likely
involve a stock transaction with a French or other European
company, the people said.  Milan-based UniCredit in May said it would review options
for Pioneer, a process that was delayed by the appointment of
 Federico Ghizzoni  as chief executive officer last month, the
people said. Ghizzoni, 54, has since said the lender’s plan for
Pioneer, which oversees about 185 billion euros ($258 billion)
of assets, hasn’t changed.  “Many counterparties have already contacted UniCredit or
its appointed advisers to express interest,” said UniCredit in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. “The strategic-review process
is continuing despite the change in the UniCredit leadership
team.”  The company is at the final stage of an internal review to
prepare documents related to Pioneer, one of the people said.
Ghizzoni last week confirmed no formal process has been launched
and no detailed discussions with potential partners are under
way.  “We are still evaluating the various propositions we have
on the table, we will meet soon to discuss some of them,”
Ghizzoni said in a Bloomberg TV interview.  Cost Cutting  Amundi, the asset-management venture that  Credit Agricole SA 
started in January with  Societe Generale SA , may look at
Pioneer, Amundi CEO  Yves Perrier  said in August. Natixis SA
Chief Executive Officer  Laurent Mignon  said on Aug. 5 that
Pioneer would fit with the French bank’s “strategic
developments” as it looks for partnerships. Paris-based BNP
Paribas SA also may be interested, another person said.  Ghizzoni, who was picked to replace  Alessandro Profumo  in
the top job, is reviewing the bank’s strategy in some markets
and hasn’t ruled out exiting some countries to increase the
bank’s profitability. He aims to outline a new business plan to
the board by the end of the year.  Prior to his appointment, the bank had been cutting costs
and shedding non-strategic assets to bolster capital. Pioneer,
present in 29 countries with about 2,000 employees, earned 167
million euros before taxes in the first half, up about 35
percent from a year earlier.  ----With assistance from  Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan and Flavia
Rotondi in Rome. Editors: Jeff St.Onge,  Frank Connelly   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 