-- Unrated Bond Sales Increasing in Germany as Investors Chase Higher Yields
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-10-07T11:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/unrated-bond-sales-rise-in-germany-as-investors-chase-yield.html
Sales of company bonds without credit
ratings in Germany are growing as firms try to cut costs and
wealthy investors buy corporate debt to boost returns.  Companies in Germany have sold 3.6 billion euros ($5
billion) in unrated bonds so far this year, compared with 2.85
billion in 2009, according to  Deutsche Bank AG . In
Europe, 8.93 billion euros in such debt was sold this year,
the Frankfurt-based bank said.  Symrise AG , a Holzminden-based maker of scents and flavors
which doesn’t have a credit rating, said on Oct. 6 it would
issue its first bond to help refinance 550 million euros in
debt. Asklepios Kliniken GmbH, based in Hamburg, raised 150
million euros with its first bond sale on Sept. 22. Companies
that only occasionally tap debt markets can save costs by
sidestepping ratings while diversifying funding sources.  “It’s taken years to build up momentum and I don’t expect
it to go away anytime soon,” said  Marc Mueller , co-head of debt
capital markets and corporate coverage for Germany and Austria.
“Several” large mid-cap companies are planning deals, he said.  Since the credit crisis, an increasing number of companies
turned to bonds to raise financing as banks pare lending and
appetite for new shares declined. Investors chose debt over
volatile stocks while interest rates remained low.  Adidas Starts Market  Adidas AG  “kick-started the German market,” Mueller said.
The sporting-goods maker raised 500 million euros in July 2009
with the first unrated bond sold to German investors. Software
maker SAP AG followed in March and July with the sale of 2.2
billion euros in bonds.  The ten day  historic volatility  of Germany’s benchmark DAX
Index tripled in May compared with the beginning of the year
amid a rout of global stock markets. German 10-year bond yields
fell to 2.09 percent, the lowest on record, on Aug. 25 amid
continued concern some European countries will struggle to
contain deficits. Banks pared commercial and industrial lending
11.3 percent in the past year, Federal Reserve data show.  “The banking crisis more than nudged German companies to
seek alternative funding sources,” said  Suki Mann , a credit
strategist at Societe Generale SA in London. “The hunt for
yields by retail and institutional investors can make the
unrated bond market very attractive.”  Mittelstand Interest  German unrated bonds are attracting an increasing amount of
retail investors such as wealthy clients seeking higher returns
and diversification, Deutsche Bank said. Among borrowers,
Germany’s small and mid-sized companies, known as the
Mittelstand, are considering issues, the bank said.  While previously only companies with well-known names such
as  Heineken NV  were able to sell unrated bonds, now smaller
companies are also attracting buyers, said  Roman Schmidt , head
of corporate finance at Commerzbank AG, Germany’s second-biggest
lender.  “Many investors make their own decisions nowadays,” said
Schmidt. “Just because there’s no rating doesn’t mean investors
aren’t doing any analysis.”  While institutional investors may also invest in the debt,
they often require a rating from Moody’s Investors Service or
Standard & Poor’s. Some buyers also hesitate to invest in
unrated bonds because they have less data on borrowers’
creditworthiness.  SAP, the world’s biggest maker of business-management
software, said it’s regularly examining the use of a rating
because some investors require one.  Companies with high-yield or no ratings are issuing debt
amid growing investor confidence that borrowers will meet debt
commitments as global economies recover from the recession.
Germany’s economy grew in the second quarter at the fastest pace
since the country’s reunification two decades ago.  The average yield investors demand to hold company bonds
globally is 3.4 percent, close to the lowest since June 2003,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. This
compares to a yield of 4.37 percent at the start of 2010.  “The market for unrated bonds has grown exponentially over
the past 12 months,” said  Frazer Ross , a London-based managing
director of syndicate at Deutsche Bank. “And we see further
growth in 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  