-- Hunting Dwarf, Bloodless Christ Bless Sweeping Bronzino Display
-- B y   L i l i   R o s b o c h
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/hunting-dwarf-bloodless-christ-bless-major-bronzino-florence-show-review.html
Whether you like your dwarf full
frontal or in a moon shot, Bronzino has it covered.  The dwarf, Morgante by name, is one of the signature pieces
in a historic exhibition devoted to Italy’s great Mannerist:
“Bronzino: Artist and Poet at the Court of the Medici.”  Mounted at the  Palazzo Strozzi  in Florence, the show
assembles 54 of the 70 works Bronzino is known to have painted
during his lifetime (1503-1572). Many were restored for the
occasion.  Born Agnolo di Cosimo (the nickname may stem from his red
hair) to a Florentine butcher, Bronzino painted with cool colors
and a glacial precision that render his portraits resplendent
and mysterious.  “We have every significant Bronzino that could actually be
taken off its wall and moved here,” said James Bradburne, the
director of Palazzo Strozzi, in an interview. “I cannot imagine
a world in which this or any other future director of the Uffizi
will once again lend 29 Bronzinos out.”  Besides Florence’s Galleria degli Uffizi, the  Louvre , the
 Hermitage , the  Metropolitan  Museum of Art and many others loaned
works. The exhibition was co-curated by Antonio Natali, director
of the Uffizi, and Carlo Falciani, a top Bronzino scholar.  Four years in planning, the exhibition cost 2.7 million
euros ($3.76 million), with an overall insurance value of more
than 700 million euros ($975 million). “It’s a very high-value
show,” Bradburne said.  As for Morgante, a court fixture, Bronzino depicts him
naked, fore and aft, on the two sides of the same canvas. He
wasn’t just an early recycler. The canvas, displayed on a
pedestal like a sculpture, is Bronzino’s entry in the debate
over whether sculpture or painting is the nobler form of art.
(The dispute is known as “Maggioranza delle arti,” if you’re
taking notes.)  Dimension of Time  The painting allows you to view a figure from different
perspectives. Bronzino further adds the dimension of time and so
goes beyond sculpture. While the front of the canvas shows the
dwarf preparing for a nighttime hunt with an owl, the back shows
him at hunt’s end, clutching the owl’s prey.  Also on display are juvenile works influenced by Jacopo da
Pontormo, paintings reflecting the tie to Florence and the
Medicis, extraordinary portraits and allegories, and the
cartoons for a cycle of tapestries that make this a unique and
unrepeatable show.  The recently discovered “Crucified Christ” is one of the
main additions to the Bronzino catalog. Commissioned by the
Panciatichi family -- members of which were tried for heresy in
1552 -- it’s a key work for understanding Florence’s reformed
religiosity in the mid-1500s.  “It’s painted theology,” Bradburne said. “Bronzino’s
Christ is a bloodless, serene Christ, a statement that bears
witness to an extremely interesting time in history.”  Sumptuous Tapestries  Some of 16th-century Europe’s most sumptuous tapestries are
shown, studies of which were part of the complementary
exhibition “ The Drawings of Bronzino ” earlier this year at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The tapestries that
illustrate the biblical story of Joseph were conceived to adorn
the Salone de’ Dugento in Florence’s Palazzo Vecchio.  Palazzo Strozzi commissioned American  Bruce Adolphe  to
compose a piece of contemporary Mannerist music, which he titled
 “Of Art and Onions: Homage to Bronzino,”  based on poems by the
artist.  If you are in the neighborhood, you can hear it on Oct. 8
at the Teatro Goldoni in Florence.  “Bronzino. Artist and Poet at the Court of the Medici” is
at the Palazzo Strozzi in Florence through Jan. 23, 2011.
Information:  http://www.palazzostrozzi.org/   ( Lili Rosboch  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lili Rosboch in New York 
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 