-- Murdoch Says Public School `Failure Factories' Imperil U.S. Middle Class
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/murdoch-says-public-school-failure-factories-imperil-u-s-middle-class.html
News Corp.  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  called for an overhaul of the
U.S. education system to preserve the middle class and prevent
the country from slipping further behind the rest of the world.  “The failure rates of our public schools represent a
tragic waste of human capital that is making America less
competitive,” Murdoch said yesterday at a Media Institute
awards dinner in Washington, according to the prepared text of
his remarks. “Upward mobility in America is in jeopardy unless
we fix our public schools.”  Murdoch , an Australian native who became a U.S. citizen in
1985, said it’s imperative the U.S. measure its performance
against the world and provide parents with more data about
teacher performance to give them choice among schools. “Our
middle-class way of life may disappear” if another generation
goes through the current education system, he said.  “In plain English, we trap the children who need an
education most in failure factories,” said Murdoch, 79.  Students who do graduate often do so with “worthless”
degrees and others never learn the basic skills needed to
provide for themselves, he said.  President  Barack Obama  has been promoting his education
initiatives, including the recruitment of 10,000 science,
technology, engineering and math teachers in the next two years.
He has said the U.S. should extend the school year, weed out the
worst-performing teachers and promote math and science education
because the nation’s economic competitiveness depends on a more
educated workforce. He has also said that money, without reform,
won’t fix the problem.  Gates, Zuckerberg  While public education in the U.S. is primarily funded and
run by state and local authorities, Obama is pushing for broad
adoption of standards for teachers and students to reach his
goal of having the highest rate of college graduates in the
world by 2020. The U.S. now ranks 12th among 36 developed
nations, the College Board said in a report in July.  Murdoch joins  Microsoft Corp.  founder  Bill Gates  and
Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg  in the debate over how to
improve schools. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which is
spending $290 million over seven years in three school districts
in Florida, Tennessee and Pennsylvania as well as a charter
school group in Los Angeles, is aiming to revitalize schools by
linking teacher pay and job security to student results on
standardized tests. Zuckerberg on Sept. 24 said he will donate
$100 million to schools in Newark, New Jersey’s largest city,
saying “every child deserves a great education and right now
that’s not happening.”  ‘American Idol’ Tougher  The days of America as the unrivaled world leader in public
education seem to be gone, Murdoch said. He called the existing
system a “near-monopoly” and said teachers aren’t being hired
and fired based on performance. “We have tougher standards on
‘American Idol,’” the singing-competition TV show on his  Fox
network , he said.  “The price for the status quo will ultimately be paid by
all of us,” Murdoch said. “Children who fail or leave school
without an education do not disappear. They become adults who
live on the margins of our prosperity.”  Murdoch’s  News Corp. , based in New York, is the owner of
Fox News, the Twentieth Century Fox film studio and the Wall
Street Journal. He received the American Horizon Award yesterday
from the Media Institute in recognition of his leadership in
promoting the vitality and independence of the media industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  