-- Vanguard Fires AllianceBernstein as Manager of Lagging Stock Mutual Fund
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-10-07T15:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/vanguard-fires-alliancebernstein-as-manager-of-lagging-stock-mutual-fund.html
Vanguard Group Inc., the largest U.S.
mutual-fund company by assets, removed AllianceBernstein LP as a
manager on its poorest performing stock fund in the past decade.  Wellington Management Co. in Boston and Philadelphia-based
Delaware Investments will take over the two-thirds of the $3.7
billion  U.S. Growth Fund  from AllianceBernstein, the Valley
Forge, Pennsylvania-based firm said today in a statement.
Chicago-based William Blair & Co. remains the adviser for the
remaining third of the fund.  “This is one of the worst cases of fund stewardship in the
industry currently,”  Dan Wiener , editor of Independent Adviser
for Vanguard Investors, a New York-based newsletter, said in an
interview, referring to Vanguard’s handling of the fund’s sub-
advisers.  U.S. Growth was Vanguard’s worst actively managed stock
fund and one of the industry’s worst over the past decade,
according to data from Bloomberg and Morningstar Inc. It fell 50
percent in the 10 years ended Dec. 28, worse than all but one
U.S. stock fund with at least $1 billion.  AllianceBernstein, based in New York, became the sole
manager of the fund in 2001. Vanguard handed a third of the
portfolio to William Blair in 2004. In 2008, AllianceBernstein
replaced  Alan Levi  as manager of its share of the fund with
 James G. Reilly  and  Scott Wallace .  “Vanguard has made adjustments to both the adviser
structure and portfolio management of the fund on numerous
occasions over the past nine years, so I dispute that notion
that Vanguard did not act to make changes,”  John Woerth , a
Vanguard spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  Vanguard, which passed Boston’s Fidelity Investments this
year as the top U.S. mutual fund firm, manages about $1.39
trillion in fund assets, including $764 billion that track stock
or bond indexes, according to spokeswoman Rebecca Katz. Its $200
billion in actively managed equity funds are mostly run by
outside advisers, including $175 billion handled by Wellington
in 19 funds.  AllianceBernstein, which is majority-owned by French
insurer  Axa SA , will continue to subadvise on three Vanguard
funds, John Meyers, a spokesman for the company, said in a
telephone interview. The firm manages portions of the $12.3
billion Vanguard Windsor Fund, the $7.3 billion International
Value Fund and the $3.9 billion Global Equity Fund, overseeing a
total of about $6 billion, according to Woerth.  “We remain deeply committed to our valued relationship
with Vanguard,” Meyers said. “We continue to provide several
investment services to the firm and will work to further enhance
our partnership with them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  