-- Vedanta Resources Cuts Spending Plan After Failing to Win Orissa Approval
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2010-10-07T16:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/vedanta-resources-cuts-spending-plan-after-failing-to-win-orissa-approval.html
Vedanta Resources Plc , controlled by
billionaire  Anil Agarwal , will cut its spending program by as
much as $2 billion over the next two years after failing to get
clearance to mine bauxite at Niyamgiri in India’s Orissa state.  The capital expenditure revision “will have an impact of
between $1.5 billion and $2 billion,” Chief Executive Officer
 Mahendra Singh Mehta  said on an analyst conference call today.
“These numbers are very tentative as of now; these numbers will
be developing as we go forward.”  Vedanta has suspended work on its Lanjigarh alumina
refinery expansion as a result, and deferred the first metal
tapping at the Jharsuguda-II and Korba smelter projects, the
London-based company said today in a statement.  The plan to mine Orissa’s bauxite, used to make aluminum,
would help reduce raw-material costs at its refinery. On Aug. 10
the company won state approval for a 375 billion-rupee ($8.47
billion) expansion to increase smelting and refining capacity
sixfold. Later that month India’s Environment Ministry dismissed
the mining plan on concern it would affect tribes and wildlife.  While Vedanta is in talks with the Orissa government to get
alternative sources of bauxite, the refinery will continue to
operate at 1 million tons a year with ore from Bharat Aluminium
Co. and others, the company said in the statement.  Anglo Zinc Deal  Vedanta  produces  copper, iron ore and zinc, as well as
aluminum. It reported record-high zinc and aluminum output in
the quarter ended Sept. 30, with zinc rising 25 percent from a
year earlier to 176,000 metric tons, and aluminum climbing 35
percent to 162,000 tons. The company agreed in May to pay  Anglo
American Plc  $1.34 billion for zinc mines in Africa and Ireland.  “Key growth in zinc will come from the portfolio purchased
from Anglo American,” Liberum Capital Ltd. wrote in a note to
investors. “With deal completion earmarked for the end of the
calendar year, we include these assets as of fiscal year 2012.”  Vedanta  fell 30 pence, or 1.4 percent, to 2,193 pence at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London trading, the biggest decline in a
week.  Iron ore output was stable in the quarter, at 3.2 million
tons, while sales of the steelmaking material increased 25
percent to 2 million tons, Vedanta said.  Production at the company’s Tuticorin smelter in India
totaled 68,000 tons, 25 percent lower than a year earlier,
because of a planned 22-day maintenance shutdown that began June
22, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  