-- Vivace Hedge Fund Aims to Triple Japan Pension Client Assets
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-07T01:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/vivace-hedge-fund-aims-to-triple-japanese-pension-assets-to-600-million.html
Vivace Capital Management Co. , a
Japanese hedge fund, aims to triple assets managed for the
nation’s pension funds to 50 billion yen ($600 million) in two
years as they seek higher returns.  Vivace expects to start managing 1 billion yen this month
for a pension fund, in addition to the current 15.5 billion yen
it oversees for four different retirement funds, said Takeshi
Ueno, president of the Tokyo-based firm. It aims to increase the
number of pension clients to 10 in two years, he said.  The firm is turning to providing tailored strategies for
pensions rather than pooling their money into one hedge fund
after demand for its hedge offerings waned in the wake of the
financial crisis. Vivace aims to offer 5 percent in additional
returns to attract pensions facing a shortfall in contributions
and an increase in payouts as the population ages, Ueno said.  “Japanese asset-management firms are focusing on pension
clients now since their portfolios have been hard hit from the
declines in Japanese stocks,” Ueno, 45, who became the
president of Vivace last month, said in an interview in Tokyo
yesterday. “For us to survive, we realized that we need to
shift gears to focus on a growing market after realizing our
hedge funds weren’t quite capturing their needs.”  Japanese pension returns have been hurt by low bond yields,
a declining birthrate and two decades of slumping stocks that
sent the  Nikkei 225  Stock Average to a quarter of its 1989 peak.  Pension Shortfalls  The shortfall in pension funding of the nation’s top 278
companies by market value rose 50 percent to 21.5 trillion yen
in the year ended March, according to a study by the Tokyo-based
Daiwa Institute of Research.  Meanwhile, Vivace has struggled to increase its assets. Its
Japanese Stocks Multi Alpha fund, employing a market-neutral
strategy, only grew its assets by 400 million yen since
inception in October 2008, while assets of its currency hedge
fund remained unchanged at 1 billion yen since it began in
November 2008, Ueno said.  Market-neutral funds seek to profit from both rising and
falling prices by matching long and short positions in different
stocks and indexes to boost returns.  “In a country where the population is aging rapidly and
payouts are expected to increase, it’s hard to picture a rosy
outlook,” Ueno said. “Trying to capture the money of each
Japanese national would be the last resort for Japanese asset
management firms.”  The firm, majority owned by Ace Koeki Co., a Japanese
trader of commodity futures, will consider teaming up with other
asset-management firms in five to six years, Ueno said. Such an
alliance would offer mutual funds for retail investors as well
as increase headcounts of staff as the business expands, he said,
adding that there are no concrete plans at the moment.    Hedge funds  are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  