-- Warlords Evoke Tarantino Characters, Mar Afghan Security, U.S. Panel Finds
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/warlords-with-tarantino-monikers-mar-afghan-security-senate-probe-finds.html
Warlords with monikers from a  Quentin Tarantino  film and rocks standing in as fake guards at untended
posts illustrate mismanagement of U.S. security contracting in
Afghanistan, a Senate investigation found.  The  Senate Armed Services Committee , in a report issued
after a yearlong probe, detailed cases of private security
contractors funneling U.S. taxpayer dollars to warlords tied to
murder, kidnapping and bribery. Some of the people paid with
U.S. funds worked with the Taliban or took part in actions
directed against the U.S.-led coalition fighting the war, the
committee concluded.  “All too often, our reliance on private security
contractors in Afghanistan has empowered warlords and power
brokers operating outside Afghan government control,” committee
Chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, told reporters in
Washington yesterday. “There is significant evidence that some
security contractors even work against our coalition forces.”  The  report  is the latest to outline lax U.S. oversight of
private security contractors during the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan. Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  has called for
private security firms in Afghanistan to disband by the end of
the year, saying they are a source of corruption that’s
undermining support for the fight against the Taliban.  More than 26,000 private security personnel operated in
Afghanistan as of May, according to U.S. military figures cited
by the committee, which examined a sample of 125 contracts.  Increased Oversight  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , in a letter to Levin, said
the department had taken “significant steps” in the past three
years to improve its practices, including quadrupling oversight
personnel in the field.  General  David Petraeus , the top U.S. and NATO commander in
Afghanistan, also began requiring last month that his officers
consider contracting a “command responsibility” because of the
risk of undermining the war effort, Gates said.  The 90-page report cites incidents involving ArmorGroup
North America Inc., a subsidiary of West Sussex, U.K.-based  G4S
Plc , and closely held EOD Technology Inc., based in Lenoir City,
Tennessee.  ArmorGroup “relied on Afghan warlords, some of whom were
Taliban supporters, to provide manpower for the company’s guard
force” in 2007 at an Afghan air base under a U.S. Air Force
security contract, the probe found.  “While the contract was ongoing, one of those warlords
killed another of the warlords in a shootout at an Afghan
bazaar,” the committee said in a statement accompanying the
report. “A third was killed in a U.S. and Afghan military raid
on a Taliban meeting being held at his house.”  Film Characters  ArmorGroup referred to two of the warlords as Mr. White
and Mr. Pink, the names of characters in Tarantino’s “Reservoir
Dogs” film.  “Despite reports linking ‘Pink’ to the Taliban, ArmorGroup
continued to employ his men for more than a month” after “Mr.
White” was murdered, allegedly by “Mr. Pink,” according to
the statement. ArmorGroup eventually fired the men in part
because of “Pink’s” links to the Taliban.  The report concluded that the case demonstrated a failure
of contractors such as ArmorGroup to vet and properly supervise
their personnel and ensure compliance with regulations.  ArmorGroup engaged workers from two local villages “only
upon the recommendation and encouragement of U.S. Special
Forces,” said Susan Pitcher, a spokeswoman for G4S, in an e-
mailed statement. The committee reported that an unnamed U.S.
military “team leader” recommended “Mr. Pink” as a point of
contact to steer villagers looking for work at the air base and
didn’t recall suggesting “Mr. White.”  ‘Close Contact’  “ArmorGroup personnel remained in close contact with U.S.
Special Forces personnel to ensure that the company was
constantly acting in harmony with, and in support of, U.S.
military interests and desires,” Pitcher said.  In another case, EOD Technology “relied on local
powerbrokers to supply manpower,” the committee said. They
included one guard that the U.S. military said raised money for
the Taliban and another who allegedly worked with “a hostile
foreign government,” the panel said.  Some personnel hired by EOD Technology had been fired by
ArmorGroup in the other case, the committee found.  Leo Beale, a spokesman for EOD Technology, said he couldn’t
comment immediately.  The report cites an October 2008 assessment of an unnamed
contractor working in Nangarhar Province that lacked command and
control and left observation posts without full staffing.  The contractor “used rocks to simulate personnel,”
according to the assessment cited in the report.  Marine Shooting  The committee report highlights the Feb. 19 accidental
shooting by an Afghan security contractor of Marine Lance
Corporal Joshua Birchfield, 24, as an example of the human cost
of poor contractor oversight.  Birchfield, of Westville, Indiana, was shot and killed
while on foot patrol in northeastern Farah Province by a
security guard under a contract funded with U.S. tax dollars.  Birchfield’s shooting “exemplifies the risks that
untrained and unsupervised armed private security contractor
personnel can pose for U.S. troops,” according to the report.
The committee didn’t give the name of the company that employed
the guard.  The Pentagon redacted Birchfield’s name from the report,
though his death was widely reported when it occurred.  NCIS spokesman Ed Buice confirmed that the report referred
to Birchfield. The contractor was found guilty July 14 by the
Farah Primary Court of negligent homicide and was sentenced to
15 years in prison, Buice said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at  at
 acapaccio@bloomnberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva4@bloomberg.net . 