-- Wealthy Lock In Low Gift Levy as Time Runs Out on 0% Estate Tax
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/wealthy-lock-35-u-s-gift-tax-as-time-runs-out-to-avoid-55-estate-levy.html
The 84-year-old widow gathered her
children at the Chicago offices of the law firm  McDermott Will &
Emery LLP  and told them they were going to get a special
Christmas gift this year: half of her $20 million fortune.  The decision to pass on her money while still alive was
prompted by the  deadlock in Congress  over renewing Bush-era tax
cuts that could make providing for her heirs much more costly if
she dies after Dec. 31.  “She said, ‘I don’t want anyone wishing I was dead,’”
said her lawyer,  Domingo Such , who declined to identify the
client.  Estates are exempt from all taxes for 2010, and the rate
shoots up to 55 percent next year unless lawmakers act in a
post-election session. That means the best tax-reduction
strategy, short of dying in 2010, may be to transfer assets to
family members this year and lock in a historically low gift-tax
rate of 35 percent.  At first, the 84-year-old woman’s heirs thought she was
joking about her fear of a death wish, Such said. The repeal of
the estate tax this year -- which the economist  Paul Krugman  has
called the “Throw Momma from the Train” law in his New York
Times column -- has generated much black humor about unfortunate
accidents befalling wealthy parents as Dec. 31 approaches.  Such says his client made a bet that she would reduce her
tax bill by as much as 40 percent by rewarding her heirs
immediately, compared with what she would pay if she dies in
2011 or beyond. The gift tax also is scheduled to rise to 55
percent Jan. 1 without congressional intervention.  ‘Lowest Rate’  “This is the lowest rate that the gift tax has ever been
at; it’s only going to get higher,” Such says.  Gift taxes  have long been matched with estate taxes to
prevent the wealthiest from ducking the  Internal Revenue Service 
after death. Americans can give away a total of $13,000 this
year without any tax consequence, up to a $1 million lifetime
maximum. When the allowance is spent, gifts are taxed at the
same rate as estates. The exception: the 0 percent estate-tax
rate prevailing in 2010, which is accompanied by a 35 percent
gift tax, equal to the top marginal rate on ordinary income.  All of those rates were set in 2001 as part of an effort by
then-President  George W. Bush  and his Republican allies to
abolish the estate tax permanently. After encountering
opposition from congressional Democrats, they had to settle for
a gradual reduction over a decade culminating in a one-year
repeal for 2010.  Bush Tax Cuts  Now, Congress is sparring over what to do with the estate
tax as part of a larger debate over Bush’s tax cuts, which all
expire at the end of the year. Democrats last month postponed
any discussion on extending the cuts until at least mid-
November, after the congressional elections and before most of
the newly elected lawmakers are seated.  President  Barack Obama  and House Democrats still want to
restore 2009 rules that exempted the first $7 million of a
couple’s estate from any tax and applied a top 45 percent rate
to the remainder. Most Republicans still back extending the
repeal. In the Senate, Arizona Republican  Jon Kyl  and Arkansas
Democrat  Blanche Lincoln  have attracted support from both
parties with a 35 percent rate and a $10 million exemption.  While five billionaires, including New York Yankees owner
George Steinbrenner, have died this year leaving behind fortunes
that were exempt from taxation, lawmakers have made little
progress on fixing the estate tax next year and beyond.  Retroactive for 2010  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, vowed in December to reinstate the estate tax
retroactively for this year. Tax experts said they don’t expect
him to be able to make good on that promise.  That is prompting more people to look at the low gift tax
in their estate planning, said attorney  Linda Hirschson , a
shareholder at the firm Greenberg Traurig.  “People are doing planning and operating on the assumption
we’re really not going to have an estate tax” this year, she
said.  Older people are more likely to make taxable gifts than
younger people, she said. “It’s a case-by-case basis,” she
said. “I find younger clients are less inclined to do it. If
it’s a hedge fund guy in his 40s, he might be willing to make
some gifting, but not a lot to incur the upfront tax cost.”  Wealthy people in poor health also have to consider whether
they’re likely to die within three years of making the gift, in
which case special tax rules would cut any savings in half, Such
said.  Joshua Rubenstein , head of the estate and trust practice at
the New York Law firm Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP, said clients
are all hedging their bets by waiting until late December to
transfer wealth as gifts to children and grandchildren. That’s
to ensure the giver doesn’t die before year’s end, in which case
the gift tax would have been needlessly paid.  “This is going to be the craziest year-end ever,”
Rubenstein said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  