-- Weathermen May Dent $500 Billion Coal Market With Improved Wind Forecasts
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2010-10-07T14:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/weathermen-to-dent-500-billion-coal-market-with-wind-forecasts.html
Xcel Energy Inc.  is shutting down
some of its coal-fired power plants for hours or days and not
because environmental pressure or legislation mandate it.
Instead, Xcel has a new tool: more accurate wind forecasts.  The readings are part of a project that the Minneapolis-
based company, the largest U.S. wind-power producer, is working
on with Colorado’s  National Center for Atmospheric Research .  NCAR feeds data from satellites, weather stations and
aircraft into supercomputers to figure when Xcel can turn off
coal-burning plants and substitute electricity from hundreds of
wind turbines deployed across the foothills of the Rocky
Mountains, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Oct. 11 issue.  Fitting irregular streams of wind power generated by tens
of thousands of turbines in the U.S., Europe and China into
electricity grids that need to keep supply and demand in close
balance is a complex challenge for utilities. Using a constant
energy source like coal is easier. Power surges from wind must
be balanced in the grid and can make pricing volatile.  “With better forecasts you will get better dispatching of
power, and that means much greater efficiency for the whole
system,” says Olav Hohmeyer, an energy researcher at the
University of Flensburg, Germany. “That means the potential for
using much less coal and gas.”  If more accurate readings lessen the $500 billion-plus
spent on burning coal each year, utilities could benefit since
in many countries coal, one of the cheapest energy sources, is
becoming or expected to become more costly. Wind power is almost
as cheap, but unpredictable.  Turning Down Dials  Because many nations and states, including Germany,
Denmark, Spain and Colorado, require the use of wind before
turning to coal or gas for energy needs, utilities sometimes
must cut output of fossil fuel plants to avoid overloading the
electrical grid, which could lead to outages. Germany’s E.ON AG
and Denmark’s Dong Energy A/S are among utilities that have used
wind forecasts with varying degrees of success.  The government-provided forecasts that Spanish network
operator  Red Electrica Corp. SA  uses “are quite reliable for
the next six hours, and beyond 24 hours out the margin of error
is about 15 percent,” company spokesman  Antonio Calvo  says. And
Spain is having success managing surges in wind power: Turbines
contributed between 2.5 and 18 percent of its energy supply at
different points during one day in September.  In Denmark, forecasting hasn’t led to less use of coal,
says Gitte Agersbaek, a senior engineer at state-owned grid
operator Energinet.dk. While Denmark often generates more wind
power than it needs -- and exports the excess to Norway so
Denmark’s grid doesn’t overload -- many of its centralized
heating systems are powered by coal and need to run constantly
in winter.  Danish Experiment  Denmark is starting to grapple with how to make wind a more
effective, dominant energy source. Energinet.dk is working with
the Danish Technical University to improve short-term wind
forecasts and looking for new ways to integrate wind power into
its energy infrastructure.  Back in Colorado, Xcel’s project with NCAR has been
extended for a year. Xcel is able to idle coal stations for as
long as three days to accommodate a surge in wind power. “The
project has definitely been a success,” says Keith A. Parks, a
senior energy trading analyst in Denver at Xcel.  More benefits from better predictions may be coming, says
 Frank Mastiaux , the head of E.ON’s Climate and Renewables
division. “The right wind forecasting is the crucial thing for
picking the right sites and later managing the intermittency
issues,” says Mastiaux. “I do not think we have by far
exhausted all the technical options to get that improved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeremy van Loon  in Berlin at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  