-- WestLB's Bad Bank Has $1.47 Billion Loss in Fiscal Year on Risk Provisions
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2010-10-07T13:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/westlb-s-bad-bank-has-1-47-billion-loss-in-fiscal-year-on-risk-provisions.html
Erste Abwicklungsanstalt, the bad
bank that’s winding down some of bailed-out  WestLB AG ’s assets,
said it posted a loss in its shortened fiscal year after setting
aside money for risk provisioning.  The net loss in the six months through June, EAA’s first
fiscal year, was 1.05 billion euros ($1.47 billion), according
to an e-mailed statement today. The bad bank sold 6.2 billion
euros of assets in the period and further divested holdings
valued at 3 billion euros through August, reducing the overall
portfolio by 12 percent, it said.  The assets, which include collateralized debt obligations
and government bonds, were sold mostly to U.S. investors seeking
higher yields, Matthias Wargers, a board member at EAA, told
reporters late yesterday in Dusseldorf, where the bad bank and
WestLB are based. The loss was related to provisions for the so-
called Phoenix vehicle, which has separate state guarantees.  “With the remaining 2.1 billion euros in equity and a
balance sheet total of 52.5 billion euros we are feeling well
prepared for the future,” said board member  Markus Bolder . He
reiterated that EAA is planning to reduce assets by 50 percent
through 2014.  WestLB shifted about one-third of its holdings, or 77
billion euros, to the bad bank to shrink its balance sheet.
Germany’s Soffin bank-rescue fund agreed last year to provide
WestLB with 3 billion euros to help transfer the assets. The
state-owned lender was ordered to shed risky businesses and sell
itself by the end of 2011 under conditions imposed by the
European Commission when it approved state aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net . 