-- White House Adviser Goolsbee's Comment on Koch Taxes Reviewed by Treasury
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-10-07T15:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/white-house-adviser-goolsbee-s-comment-on-koch-taxes-reviewed-by-treasury.html
The Treasury Department is reviewing
complaints by Republicans that White House adviser  Austan Goolsbee  may have broken confidentiality laws by commenting on
the tax structure of Koch Industries Inc., a political foe of
President  Barack Obama .  Russell George , the Treasury inspector general for tax
administration, told Iowa Senator  Charles Grassley , the top
Republican on the tax-writing Finance Committee, in a Sept. 28
letter that he has begun a review at the senator’s request. The
panel’s six other Republicans also sought the probe.  During a conference call with reporters in August,
Goolsbee, chairman of Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers,
identified Koch Industries as an example of a “multibillion-
dollar business” that uses a tax structure originally intended
to benefit small businesses.  Those structures, including partnerships and S-
corporations, don’t pay corporate-level tax and are at the heart
of a broader debate over whether tax rates scheduled to increase
in January will hurt “small business.”  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky and
other Republicans oppose Obama’s proposal to let the top two
marginal tax rates rise, saying that the increase would hurt
half of all small-business profits because their owners pay
taxes at individual rather than corporate rates.  Tax experts say that figure is exaggerated because it
counts so-called “pass-through” businesses that are popular
because they allow profits and losses to be reported on owners’
personal tax returns without a layer of corporate tax.  “I think” Koch Industries is one of those types of
businesses, Goolsbee told reporters on Aug. 27.  Obama Critic  Koch Industries’ political action committee is a reliable
donor to Republican candidates. The Koch family also is tied to
Americans for Prosperity, a Republican-leaning group that has
spent millions on ads criticizing the government’s $814 billion
stimulus program and “wasteful government spending.”  David Koch , executive vice president of closely held  Koch 
Industries, of Wichita, Kansas, is chairman of the Americans for
Prosperity Foundation.  Obama has singled out Americans for Prosperity by name
while criticizing the influx of special-interest money into this
year’s elections.  Koch Industries, in a Sept. 22  statement , said the White
House comment appears “politically motivated.”  ‘Deeply Concerned’  Mark Holden, a company senior vice president, in a
statement three days later said he was “deeply concerned about
what, if any, access the administration has had to Koch
Industries’ confidential tax information.” The statement said
the company “does pay corporate income taxes and complies with
all its tax obligations.”  It is a felony for government officials to disclose tax-
return information. Grassley and his Republican colleagues in
their complaint to George said “it appears to be a violation”
of the confidentiality law.  White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  today said Goolsbee’s
statement “was not in any way based on any review of tax
filings.” A White House official yesterday said the
administration won’t use Koch as an example in the future.  David Barnes , a spokesman for George, said he couldn’t
comment on specific cases. The inspector general “works to be
responsive, however, to all requests concerning issues within”
the office’s “statutory jurisdiction,” Barnes said.  IRS Procedures  Christopher Bergin , chief executive of Tax Analysts, a
Falls Church, Virginia, publisher of tax information, said it’s
“incredibly unlikely” that top White House officials would
violate confidentiality laws. Even if they tried, IRS procedures
put in place after President  Richard Nixon  tried to use the
agency for political purposes would stop them, Bergin said.  “Alleging that any White House would go into your tax
information because you’re their enemy?” said Bergin, whose
group frequently sues the IRS to disclose tax information.  “You’re alleging that not only the administration did
this, but that the IRS had to be complicit,” he said. “This is
from Mars right now.”  IRS spokesman  Dean Patterson  declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  