-- Why Derek Jeter Won’t End Up Like Jordan, Favre: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-10-07T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/why-derek-jeter-won-t-end-up-like-jordan-favre-scott-soshnick.html
Even the great  Michael Jordan , who
delivered six championships to his bosses, elevating the Chicago
Bulls to a global brand, changed teams. So, too, did iconic
athletes Wayne Gretzky and Brett Favre, who was as much a part
of  Green Bay  as any Friday night fish fry.  There are so few one-team, rookie-to-retirement wonders
these days.  But what about New York Yankees captain  Derek Jeter , who is
more closely associated with his uniform than any other athlete
in sports? Is there any chance that Jeter, whose 10-year, $189
million  contract  expires at season’s end, could part with his
pinstripes?  Not on your Louisville Slugger. And, interestingly enough,
the principal reasons have more to do with business than
baseball.  We’ve all heard that something, in this case a shortstop on
the decline, is worth whatever someone else is willing to pay
for it. The Yankees, never shy about spending their  cable
television  loot, will offer Jeter by far the most money because,
statistics aside, he’s worth more to them than any other team.  Jeter is the face of a franchise that sells not only
winning but excellence, pride and, here’s where the Yankees
really set themselves apart,  tradition . From Murderer’s Row to
the M&M Boys; from Martin to Mattingly, who went by Donnie
Baseball in the Bronx. It’s about the lineage, not just that
day’s lineup. An Old Timers’ Day at Yankee Stadium is a tangible
link to stories passed down through generations. Look, there’s
Yogi and Whitey.  Jeter is vital to all that being more than corny marketing
slogans and lip service. He’s the favorite son.  Among the Greats  Check out almost any  list  of Yankees career leaders.
There’s Jeter, alongside mythic surnames like Mantle, Gehrig and
DiMaggio, who thanked the good Lord for making him a Yankee. A
sign with DiMaggio’s quote is all Jeter wanted from the old
stadium.  Speaking of which, who else but Jeter could grab the
microphone and address the crowd before the wrecking ball was
summoned. Because it was Jeter telling the world that the ghosts
would travel across the street, it was believable.  To any other general manager, an evaluation of Jeter’s
worth would be reduced to statistics. That’s bad news for Jeter,
who, at the age of 36, around the time  baseball  players begin to
fade, is coming off one of his worst years.  Jeter hit .270 in the regular season just concluded, the
lowest average since he broke into the big leagues in 1995. He
also had 10 home runs and 67 runs batted in while making a
league-leading 515 outs.  Here’s another, more important, number: 2,926, Jeter’s
career hits total.  Exclusive Club  There are only  26 members  of the 3,000-hit club. Jeter,
absent injury, will join them next season. The Yankees, you can
bet, have already come up with a Jeter-inspired marketing
campaign.  Because Jeter, unlike teammate  Alex Rodriguez , isn’t
tainted by steroids, it’ll be a baseball-wide, make that
worldwide celebration. You just know all of those Yankee stores
will have T-Shirts and trinkets to commemorate the moment.  There’s value in that. Count on the team-owned YES Network
to have bigger audiences and special programming as Jeter
approaches the record. There’s value in that.  The New York Jets signed Brett Favre, first and foremost,
because the buzz surrounding his arrival would, theoretically,
anyway, help to sell personal-seat licenses in their new
stadium. It was about finance as much as football.  Well, keeping Jeter, who has five World Series rings, is
about bobblehead dolls, commemorative videos and keepsakes.  Jeter was paid $22 million this season.  Comparable Salaries  It’s unlikely that another team would offer, say, $7
million now. Not even for Jeter’s intangibles. According to
ESPN, since the 1990-91 offseason the only shortstops 34 or
older to get contracts in excess of $5 million were  Marco Scutaro , who received $12.5 million over two seasons, and  Miguel Tejada , who got $5 million for one year.  The market has been set. For everyone, that is, except the
Yankees, who, when it comes to Jeter, have so much more to
consider than batting average and fielding range.  I asked Jeter during the 2008 season whether he could
envision the day when he’d wear another uniform.  “You don’t always have the final say so,” said Jeter,
whose Yankees opened their best-of-five, American League
Division Series last night in Minnesota. “It’s a business.”  Yes, it is. And that, folks, is precisely why Jeter isn’t
going anywhere.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  