-- Suicide Attack at Karachi Shrine Kills 10 People, Provincial Minister Says
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2010-10-07T17:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/twin-karachi-suicide-blasts-at-shrine-kill-seven-injure-65-minister-says.html
The Pakistani Taliban claimed
responsibility for two blasts at a shrine in the financial hub
of Karachi that killed eight people and injured as many as 65.  Most of the injured are in critical condition and “it is
likely that the toll will rise because of the nature of the
injuries,” said Seemi Jamali, spokeswoman at the Jinnah
Hospital in the city.  Suicide attackers may have carried out the blasts as
police recovered a decapitated head and a dismembered torso
from different locations, Zulfiqar Mirza, home minister for the
southern state of Sindh, told reporters at the site of the
explosions.  Pakistani shrines and mosques have frequently been the
target of Islamist militant groups. In July, at least 41 people
were killed and 175 were injured in twin suicide attacks on the
shrine of Data Gunj Baksh, a Sufi saint, in the eastern city of
Lahore.  The attack comes as Pakistan struggles to cope with floods
that left about 17 million people without homes and at
least 1,500 people dead.  Pakistan today kept shut the main border crossing used to
supply NATO troops in Afghanistan a day after the U.S.
apologized for killing three Pakistani soldiers in the
air strike that triggered the closure of the transit point.  At least 2,500 trucks are backed up waiting for permission
to enter Afghanistan. Dozens were set ablaze by militants in the
past week.  The U.S.-commanded NATO forces in Afghanistan crossed into
Pakistani territory several times last month, Pakistani
officials have said. The Obama administration in September
quadrupled its missile strikes in northwest Pakistan against
Islamic guerrilla groups that are fighting it in Afghanistan and
that might be linked to what Western governments say is a
possible plot for terrorist attacks in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Abhay Singh at 
 abhaysingh@bloomberg.net  