-- Women-Owned Businesses `Steadily Expanding' in U.S., Commerce Study Finds
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-10-07T16:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/women-owned-businesses-steadily-expanding-u-s-commerce-department-says.html
Private businesses owned by women
have grown in number and hired more workers than male-owned
businesses, according to the latest U.S. Department of Commerce
survey to track such data.  The report  also found such firms lag
behind male-owned businesses in financial capital, revenue and
salaries.  The number of companies owned by women grew by 44 percent
to 7.8 million from 1977 to 2007, compared with a 22 percent
increase in firms owned by men, the Commerce Department report
found. Male-owned firms in 2007 totaled 13.9 million.  “Women-Owned Businesses in the 21st Century,” also found
women in business added 500,000 workers to their payrolls while
firms owned by men shed almost 2 million jobs during the period.
As of 2007, the latest year that full U.S. Census Bureau data
was available, women-owned businesses employed 7.6 million
workers, according to the report released Oct. 4.  “The good news is that women-owned businesses have actually
been growing over the last decade and actually growing faster
than men-owned private businesses,”  Rebecca Blank , Commerce’s
undersecretary for economic affairs, said in  a phone interview.
“There’s clearly a sense here, if you look into the future, of
an enormous growth opportunity for women-owned businesses in the
private sector.”  Blank also pointed to challenges in the data. Businesses
owned by women are “likely to be smaller, more likely to fail,
and different from businesses owned by men along a variety of
measures,” the report said. Those firms have lower levels of
financial capital, use less outsider debt, generate less revenue
and pay their workers smaller salaries.  Women Lag Behind  “In virtually every dimension, women-owned businesses lag
far behind men-owned businesses,” Blank said.  The expansion of women-owned businesses from 1997 to 2007
followed a general shift in the U.S. job market. Health care and
education-related jobs expanded while manufacturing and
construction employment shrank, according to the report.  Blank said women entrepreneurs have concentrated in health
and education - and they benefitted as those areas grew even
during the recession. Data beyond 2007, when it becomes
available, may reflect stronger growth in women-owned
businesses, Blank said.  The more female entrepreneurs there are, the more other
women will say, “‘Yes, I can jump in and do something like this
too,’” Blank said.  The report is based on Census Bureau’s business and
population data and information from the Kauffman Firm Survey,
which tracks about 5,000 businesses founded in 2004 and examines
the nature, strategy and employment patterns of new businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  