-- Yankees Erase 3-Run Deficit to Win 6-4 in Game 1 of Series Against Twins
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-07T05:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/yankees-erase-3-run-deficit-to-win-6-4-in-game-1-of-series-against-twins.html
The New York Yankees followed a
familiar formula in winning their opening game of the
playoffs. For the Minnesota Twins, it was all too
recognizable.  The Yankees beat the Twins 6-4 last night in
Minneapolis, scoring six runs over the final four innings
to erase a three-run deficit.  It was the 49th time New York has come from behind to
win this season, the most in Major League Baseball for the
second straight year. When the Yankees swept Minnesota in
the first round last season, they trailed in all  three
playoff games  and outscored the Twins 9-4 from the sixth
inning on.  “We just keep fighting,” said Yankees first baseman
 Mark Teixeira , whose two-run, seventh-inning home run
snapped a 4-4 tie. “That’s a great team over there and
we’ve played a lot of tough games against them. We just get
maybe one big hit, one big pitch. We’ve been battling and
it’s worked out.”  The Yankees were shut down by pitcher  Francisco Liriano  for the first five innings at Target Field, where
the Twins had an American League-best 53-28 record in their
first season at their new $545 million ballpark.  The reigning World Series champions then struck for
four runs in the sixth inning before Teixeira’s home run.  The Yankees outscored the Twins 6-1 over the final
four innings, with New York relievers  Boone Logan ,  David Robertson ,  Kerry Wood  and  Mariano Rivera  holding Minnesota
scoreless in the seventh, eighth and ninth innings.  Sabathia Gets Win  Yankees starting pitcher  CC Sabathia  got the win after
allowing four runs -- three earned -- in six innings.  Sabathia fell behind 3-0 after giving up a two-run
homer to  Michael Cuddyer  in the second inning and another
run in the third, when  Orlando Hudson  scored on a passed
ball.  The Yankees, who went 0-9 against left-handed starting
pitchers in September, were limited to two singles by
Liriano, a lefty, over the first five innings.  Liriano faltered in the sixth, when Teixeira started
the New York rally with a one-out double, advanced to third
on a wild pitch and scored on a single by  Robinson Cano .  With two outs,  Jorge Posada  delivered a run-scoring
single that just cleared the glove of Hudson at second
base.  Curtis Granderson  followed with a two-run triple off
the wall in right-center field that drove in Cano and
Posada to give the Yankees a 4-3 lead.  “We got him with a couple pitches up in the zone,
maybe he missed a few,” Teixeira said of Liriano. “A guy
like him when he’s on, you’re not going to hit him and we
didn’t the first few innings.”  Twins Tie  The Twins tied it in the bottom of the sixth as
Sabathia surrendered a double and three two-out walks,
including one to rookie  Danny Valencia  on four pitches that
forced in a run.  Sabathia escaped further damage by striking out  J.J. Hardy  with the bases loaded on his 111th pitch, his last of
the game.  “He didn’t have his ‘A’ stuff, but he gave us a
chance,” Posada, the Yankees’ catcher, told reporters.  Teixeira’s homer put the Yankees back in front in the
seventh inning, as he pulled a hanging slider from  Jesse Crain  just inside the right-field foul pole.  From there, the Yankees went to the bullpen.  With two runners on base in the seventh, Robertson
struck out  Jim Thome  -- whose 25 homers led Minnesota -- to
end the inning. The Twins had runners on second and third
with two outs in the eighth, when Rivera came on to retire
 Denard Span  on a ground ball to Jeter at shortstop.  Rivera also got the final three outs in the ninth for
his 40th career postseason save, the final out coming after
a blown call by the umpires gave the Twins a two-out single
and brought the tying run to the plate.  Television replays showed outfielder  Greg Golson 
caught the line drive just before it hit the ground, which
should have ended the game. Rivera then got Thome to pop
out to third baseman  Alex Rodriguez .  The Yankees, who came from behind in seven of their 11
postseason wins during last year’s title run, now turn to
 Andy Pettitte  in Game 2 tonight against Minnesota’s  Carl Pavano .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  