-- Hybrid Porsche Introduces Art of Highway ‘Sailing’ for $68,000
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2010-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/hybrid-porsche-introduces-highway-sailing-for-68-000-jason-h-harper.html
Almost a decade ago Porsche fashioned
a bunch of its parts into the Cayenne sports utility vehicle,
turning around the company’s  bottom line  and transforming
purists into an angry mob. Today, with some 280,000 Cayennes
around the world, most people will easily identify it as a
 Porsche .  For the 2011 model year we get a redesigned Cayenne inside
and out, including a first-ever hybrid powertrain. Showing the
breadth of choices, buyers can spend just under $50,000 to more
than $100,000.  The Cayenne does appear more Porsche-like. The original
design was a serious compromise between SUV proportions and a
Porsche’s inherent trimness, like a Napoleon-sized bodybuilder.  While changes are nuanced, this design flows better,
especially on the hood, where the high side wings and the size
and position of the headlights mimic the iconic 911. The
horizontal grill looks less off-road burly. Even the shape of
the roof and the camber of the rear glass more resemble a coupe.  While it seems smaller, the Cayenne has grown in size. Both
the length and wheelbase have increased. The most serious
upgrade is the new interior, patterned after the sumptuousness
of the Panamera sedan. The leather work is excellent and the
center console is seriously handsome.  Gas Savings  The big difference between the 2003 and the 2011 Cayenne is
the company’s forceful eye toward gas savings and lower CO2
emissions. So in addition to the Cayenne, Cayenne S and Cayenne
Turbo, there is the Cayenne S Hybrid.  The S Hybrid has a recommended price of $67,700, a modest
bump over the S’s $63,700. The company says it’s the cleanest
vehicle it offers.  Outfitted with the same 3.0-liter supercharged V-6 found in
the Audi S4 sedan and a 34 kW electric motor, the S Hybrid has
the kick of a V-8 with the relative economy of a V-6. Total
horsepower is 380, with 428 pound-feet of torque available from
low engine speeds.  Gas savings? Well, sure. At 21 mpg, city driving is where
the savings show up most noticeably. Highway is 25 mpg. By
comparison, the regular and less-powerful Cayenne manages 16 and
23 mpg. It seems a lot of fuss for modest gains, but the first
step is always the hardest.  Cayenne Kick  If you’re going a short distance to the local convenience
store, electric power will get you there as long as you stay
under 40 mph. The electric motor will also kick in when you
punch the gas, giving extra power.  I tested the Hybrid around Birmingham, Alabama. The first
thing I noticed was the subtlety of the badging. It says
“hybrid” in small-case, cursive letters on the front fender,
and nowhere else. I’ll grant you that  Porsche  lovers are a
humble group, but owners might as well reap whatever eco credit
due. It should shout hybrid in DayGlo.  Starting up the Cayenne without a resulting Porsche growl
is disconcerting, but the supercharged V-6 makes a good noise
when you put your foot into it. It reaches 60 mph in 6.1
seconds, only a bit slower than the all-petrol-powered Cayenne
S, which has 400 horses and gets there in 5.6 seconds.  The hybrid technology and nickel-metal-hydride battery pack
add weight -- 385 pounds over the Cayenne S -- so the SUV is
more oafish in the corners. Nobody will mistake it for the best-
performing Porsche in the fleet. Nonetheless, it’s a sports
machine and not a  Dodge Caravan , as I’m reminded when tilting
through tight corners with the gas pedal flat.  Silent Sailing  The other noticeable difference is in the feel of the
brakes, which capture energy as you slow and channels it back to
the batteries. Like most hybrids, they are slightly spongy and
not as  John Wayne -confident as most Porsches.  Get up to highway speeds and the gas engine will sometimes
shut completely off for a short time -- allowing the vehicle to
simply coast as if in neutral. Porsche is calling this feature
“sailing” and it’s very fun to go 80 mph and have the SUV go
suddenly silent.  Porsche really is trying to squeeze every bit of gas
savings. Across the Cayenne line, the transmissions get a new,
higher gear, so you’ll find yourself in eighth on the highway.
Plus a “start-stop” function can be activated: When stopped
the engine will automatically shut off and reactivate as soon as
you depress the gas pedal.  While the company worked hard on weight savings, it ignored
the most obvious -- dumping the off-road capability. While it
can legitimately go off-road, the added technology and equipment
adds needless pounds. No serious off-roader would buy the long-
nosed Cayenne, nor have I ever seen a Porsche owner scuffing his
up on the Rubicon Trail.  What we will start seeing, however, is more hybrid
Porsches. Including, presumably, the kind of hot-blooded sports
cars that even purists can get behind.  The 2011 Porsche Cayenne S Hybrid at a Glance  Engine: 3.0-liter supercharged V-6 and electric motor for a
combined 380 hp.  Transmission: 8-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 6.1 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 21 city; 25 highway.  Price as tested: $81,870.  Best feature: It’s the cleanest Porsche on the market.  Worst feature: It’s also one of the heaviest.  Target buyer: The Porsche lover who wants to suffer less
guilt.  ( Jason H. Harper  writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 