-- Yen Surges to 15-Year High as Japan Signals No Devaluation is Imminent
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-07T10:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/yen-surges-to-15-year-high-as-japan-signals-no-devaluation-is-imminent.html
The yen surged to a 15-year high
against the dollar as a government minister said Japan won’t
weaken its own currency in order to become more competitive with
other countries.  Any currency intervention by Japan would be aimed at
discouraging excessive moves, Vice Finance Minister Fumihiko
Igarashi said. He made comments as finance chiefs from the Group
of Seven major industrialized countries are expected to discuss
exchange rates at a meeting in Washington tomorrow. The yen
gained 10.3 percent against its trading peers this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
amid speculation the U.S. will step up asset purchases and keep
interest rates at a record low.  “The onus is now shifting back to the government to resume
its battle to dampen the yen’s appreciation,” said  Lee Hardman ,
a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
London. “Whatever policy makers say at this crucial meeting,
our view is that it’s just the matter of time before the Bank of
Japan steps into the market again. The yen’s strength is a
reflection of a falling global yield. We see further upside.”  The yen strengthened 0.5 percent to 82.49 yen per dollar at
10:55 a.m. in London. It gained 0.3 percent to 115.17 yen per
euro and 0.4 percent against the pound at 131.24 yen.  Japan sold more than 2 trillion yen ($24.2 billion) to curb
the currency’s strength on September 15. Japan’s intervention
came after countries from China to Brazil and South Korea
pursued steps to limit gains in their own currencies.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  called for
cooperation to rebalance currency markets and warned of a
“damaging dynamic” of competitive weakening that could limit
global growth.  “More and more countries face stronger pressure to lean
against the market forces pushing up the value of their
currencies,” Geithner said in a speech yesterday in Washington.
Currencies are “inherently a multilateral issue” that is
“much easier to solve if countries come together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  