-- Hypercom Sues VeriFone Over Disclosure of $290 Million Acquisition Offer
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2010-10-07T18:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/hypercom-sues-verifone-over-disclosure-of-290-million-acquisition-offer.html
Hypercom Corp. , a maker of
electronic-payment software, sued rival  VeriFone Systems Inc. 
over disclosure of VeriFone’s unsolicited $290 million cash
buyout offer.  Hypercom’s board rejected San Jose, California-based
VeriFone’s $5.25-a-share bid after the largest maker of
electronic-payment equipment made its offer public Sept. 24.
Hypercom sued VeriFone in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington
for violating a confidentiality agreement between the companies.  “Public disclosure of the fact that Hypercom may be
subject to an acquisition will irreparably damage Hypercom’s
ability to attract and retain qualified employees,” Hypercom’s
lawyers said in the Sept. 23 suit. The complaint was filed under
seal and made public yesterday at the request of Bloomberg News.  VeriFone, best known for having its credit-card payment
devices in New York City taxi cabs, wants Hypercom in order to
expand its European business, analysts say. The offer was 24
percent higher than Hypercom’s closing stock price on Sept. 23.  VeriFone spokesman  Pete Bartolik  said in a telephone
interview he wasn’t familiar with the suit and couldn’t
immediately comment. Pete Schuddekopf, a Hypercom spokesman,
didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  Hypercom fell 9 cents, or more than 1.4 percent, to $6.20
at 1:52 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
VeriFone rose 58 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $27.98 on the NYSE.  Earlier Target  Hypercom, based in Scottsdale, Arizona, has been an
acquisition target in the past. Ingenico SA, a maker of payment
terminals, offered $6.25 a share in cash in February 2008 for
the electronic-payment software producer.  Ingenico, based in Neuilly-sur-Seine, France, dropped its
bid later that month after Hypercom pushed ahead with a purchase
of a unit of Thales SA. That deal barred Hypercom from becoming
involved in any other buyouts, Ingenico officials said.  VeriFone executives first approached Hypercom about a
merger in September 2009, according to court filings. Hypercom
agreed to discuss a buyout as long as the talks remained
confidential, the suit said.  Last month, VeriFone officials sent a letter to Hypercom
executives threatening to take their offer to Hypercom’s
shareholders, the suit said. The letter came after Hypercom
rejected VeriFone’s earlier buyout bid.  Making the offer public violated the confidentiality
agreement between the two companies, Hypercom’s lawyers contend
in court filings. The confidentiality provisions were supposed
to be in place until 2011, according to the suit.  Hypercom is asking Chancery Judge  J. Travis Laster  to bar
VeriFone from pushing ahead with its “hostile offer,”
according to the suit.  If Laster allows the offer to proceed, Hypercom’s suppliers
may persuaded to cut off the flow of components needed to
produce the company’s products or redirect them to competitors,
the company’s lawyers said.  The case is Hypercom Corp. v. VeriFone Systems Inc., 5845,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 