-- Zijin Fined Less-Than-Expected $1.4 Million for Toxic Waste Spill in July
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-07T11:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/zijin-fined-less-than-expected-1-4-million-for-toxic-waste-spill-in-july.html
Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s
largest gold producer, was fined a less-than-estimated 9.6
million yuan ($1.4 million) for the July acid-waste spill that
poisoned almost 2,000 metric tons of fish.  The Fujian environmental protection agency has ended its
investigation and the company needs to take more measures to
clean up the pollution, the Fujian-based company said in a
statement to the Shanghai stock exchange today. Zijin may be
fined as much as 500 million yuan for the leak, according to Wu
Kan, a Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co.  Zijin spilled 2.4 million gallons of acidic waste from
its Zijinshan copper mine in Fujian province, polluting the Ting
river and poisoning enough fish to feed 72,000 people for a year.
Chairman  Chen Jinghe  will have to focus on cleaning up and
expansion plans may be delayed after the accident, according to
UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.  The leaks led to “heavy pollution in the Ting River, and
direct economic loss of 31.9 million yuan,” Zijin said in the
statement.  Zijin’s shares have dropped 11 percent this year, and
were suspended on Oct. 4 pending the statement.  The July 3 leak caused “enormous economic losses” and
was a “big lesson,” the company had said, pledging to step
up inspections and invest 200 million yuan ($30 million)
within a year to improve its environmental performance. In
September, Zijin said four people died after a dam at its tin
mine collapsed following heavy rains from Typhoon Fanapi,
sparking an investigation by the Guangdong provincial government.  Penalties  Zijin and its waste management staff may be liable for
criminal penalties, Sonia Lu, a Guangzhou-based lawyer at
Alpha & Leader Law Firm, said in July. Environmental
pollution incidents with “especially serious consequences”
carry a prison sentence of three to seven years plus fines,
Lu said.  A nine-day delay in disclosing the spill prompted the
securities regulator to investigate. The Zijinshan copper
plant’s manager, deputy manager and the head of environment were
detained after the leak, according to the company.  Zijin cut its gold-output target by a ton to 30 tons,
copper target by 10,000 tons to 90,000 tons because of the
accident, according to its August earnings statement. The
company produced 30.65 tons of gold last year including 18
tons from the Zijinshan mine, according to its annual report.  -- Eva Woo  with assistance from  Debra Mao  in Hong Kong. Editors:
 Tan Hwee Ann ,  Indranil Ghosh .  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Eva Woo  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7537 or
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 