-- Zimbabwe Prime Minister Expresses `Disgust' With Partner Mugabe's Actions
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2010-10-07T22:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-07/zimbabwe-prime-minister-expresses-disgust-with-partner-mugabe-s-actions.html
Zimbabwean Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangira i accused President  Robert Mugabe  today of breaking
political promises and said he is disgusted with his partner in
a power-sharing government.  Tsvangirai said that Mugabe and his Zimbabwe African
National Union-Patriotic Front party have broken agreements made
early last year when the Mugabe party formed a government with
Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change.  Tsvangira i said Mugabe’s re-appointments of the Zimbabwe
central bank governor, attorney general, police chief and
several provincial governors are an unconstitutional
“betrayal.”  “To my utter surprise and shall I say disgust, Mugabe
informed me on Monday that he had re-appointed former governors.
I knew nothing about it,” Tsvangirai said in an e-mailed
statement.  Zimbabwe’s agreement to share power between the MDC and
Zanu-PF, signed in February 2009 after violence-marred elections
the previous March, states that Mugabe must consult the prime
minister before making appointments.  The prime minister also faulted Mugabe for not swearing-in
the MDC’s choice of deputy agriculture minister, former coffee
farmer  Roy Bennett .  “Again, Mr. Mugabe has gone back on his word,” Tsvangirai
said. “The matter of Roy Bennett has now become a personal
vendetta and part of a racist agenda.”  Calls to Mugabe’s Harare offices and to his spokesman
 George Charamba  weren’t answered.  “All this goes against the fundamental principles of
democracy and is utterly abhorrent to me,” Tsvangirai said.
“We will refuse to recognize any of the appointments which the
president has made illegally and unconstitutionally over the
last 18 months.”  Tsvangirai said Zimbabwe faces “nothing short of a
constitutional crisis” and appealed to the Southern African
Development Community to intervene.  The 15-member SADC brokered Zimbabwe’s power-sharing
agreement between April 2008 and February 2009 after it refused
to accept the result of a presidential election re-run in which
Mugabe was the sole candidate.  Tsvangirai withdrew from the ballot, citing increasing
violence against supporters of his MDC party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Latham  in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  