-- Coles Myer Raises Performance Targets for Bonuses
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2006-11-02T05:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-02/coles-myer-raises-performance-targets-for-bonuses-update3-.html

          
          
             Coles Myer Ltd.,  Australia 's second-largest retailer, raised the targets management must reach to be
paid bonuses, after pressure from its biggest shareholder to use
forecasts cited to reject a A$18.2 billion ($14 billion) buyout.  
 Chief Executive Officer John Fletcher must now boost earnings
35 percent over the next two years to earn his full long-term
bonus, Coles Myer said in a statement today. Fletcher stood to get
the bonus even if he missed targets used to justify knocking back
the buyout from a group led by Kohlberg, Kravis Roberts & Co.  
 Solomon Lew, biggest shareholder and former executive
chairman, said the original performance targets suggested the
forecast was ``unachievable.'' The change is a victory for Lew,
who has warred with Coles Myer Chairman Rick Allert since being
ousted from the retailer's board in 2002.  
 ``It gives a great deal more credibility to the forecasts and
to management,'' said Atul Lele, who helps manage the equivalent
of $307 million at White Funds Management in Sydney, including
Coles Myer shares. ``There is now much greater alignment of
management to shareholder interests in terms of those earnings
forecasts.''  
 Fletcher was paid A$4.6 million last year, which included
salary of A$2.3 million and long-term incentives worth A$651,326.  
 Coles Myer shares rose 6 cents to A$13.87 at the 4:10 p.m.
market close in Sydney, lifting this year's gain to 36 percent.
KKR offered A$15.25 a share for the company. The stock has risen
18 percent since first revealing the KKR approach Aug. 17.  
 Incentives  
 While Coles Myer adjusted short-term bonus hurdles for
Fletcher, 55, and other management when it issued the new
forecasts on Sept. 21, it didn't change those for the long-term
incentives.  
 ``These amendments correct that oversight,'' Allert said in
the statement.  
 Under the new plan, Fletcher and his management team will get
half their long-term bonus for growth between 12.5 percent and 15
percent. Below 12.5 percent, they get nothing.  
 Lew, Coles Myer's biggest shareholder with about 5.8 percent
of its stock, said the performance targets showed a ``disconnect''
between targets for management and forecasts.  
 ``The decrease in performance hurdles for senior management
is a disappointing indictment of the board's lack of protection of
shareholders interests,'' Lew said in an Oct. 24 statement.
``Alternatively, the earnings guidance provided to the market is
unachievable. Or both.''  
 `Totally Destabilize'  
 Fletcher's two-year A$910 million spending program, which
will drop brands such as Bi-Lo and Kmart in favor of the Coles
name and improve inventory handling, failed to convince investors
when it was first announced in July, sending the stock sliding 10
percent in three days.  
 Trying to reach the 2008 profit forecast may ``totally
destabilize'' the retailer, David Errington, Merrill Lynch's
Melbourne-based retail analyst, said in an Oct. 20 report.  
 With A$34 billion in sales from almost 3,000 supermarkets,
liquor outlets and Kmart stores, Coles Myer has about 35 percent
of Australia's A$70 billion grocery and liquor market, compared
with 40 percent for larger rival Woolworths Ltd.  
 New York-based KKR and a group of buyout firms scrapped their
bid Oct. 19 after Allert twice rejected approaches. The takeover
to would have been Australia's biggest.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Sydney 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Vercoe 
 pvercoe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        