-- ‘Harry Potter’ Sets Series Record With $125 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2010-11-22T22:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/-harry-potter-sequel-sets-franchise-record-with-125-1-million-opening.html
“ Harry Potter  and the Deathly
Hallows -- Part 1” opened with $125 million in U.S. and
Canadian ticket sales, a record for the boy-wizard series from
Time Warner Inc.’s  Warner Bros.   The opening was the sixth-best of all time, behind Warner
Bros.’ “The Dark Knight,” which took in $158.4 million in
2008, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement.  The “Potter” films, Hollywood’s top-grossing franchise,
will end in July with the release of “Deathly Hallows -- Part
2.” The first seven, based on the books by  J.K. Rowling , all
opened at No. 1, with 2005’s “Harry Potter and the Goblet of
Fire” as the previous best debut with $102.7 million, according
to researcher  Box Office Mojo .  Box Office Guru editor  Gitesh Pandya  said the opening was
in line with his estimate of $128 million.  “This movie has a very clearly defined audience and they
tend to come out up front,” Pandya said in an interview. “I’m
expecting a very large dropoff on the second weekend, but coming
from $125 million it’ll still be an impressive number.”  With the final installment, the “Potter” series is
expected to generate $7.5 billion in worldwide ticket sales,
Warner Bros. Chief Executive Officer  Barry Meyer  said on a
September conference call.  $1 Billion  The first six “Harry Potter” films took $5.44 billion in
worldwide sales, according to Box Office Mojo. The “Star Wars”
films have grossed $4.48 billion, with the “James Bond”
franchise producing $3.03 billion. The numbers aren’t adjusted
for inflation.  In “Deathly Hallows,” Lord Voldemort, played by  Ralph Fiennes , gains control of the magical world as Harry and his
pals, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, go into hiding. They try
to avoid capture while searching for artifacts that hold
portions of the evil wizard’s soul. The returning cast includes
 Daniel Radcliffe  in the title role,  Rupert Grint  and  Emma Watson .  The series so far has produced a profit of about $1 billion
when income from home video, merchandise, games and other
products is also tallied, according to the Time Warner studio.  “The final movie next summer will probably be even
bigger,” Pandya said. “It’s too early to project numbers, but
it’ll be the first movie to be in 3-D, so that will increase the
ticket prices, and the fans are so obsessed with this franchise
that they will pay the extra money.”  Brad Pitt  The animated comedy “Megamind,” featuring the voices of
 Brad Pitt  and  Will Ferrell , fell to second place this weekend
from first, where it stood for two weeks. Including sales of $16
million in its third weekend, the movie has generated $109.3
million for  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc.  and distributor
Paramount Pictures.  “Unstoppable,” an action film starring  Denzel Washington ,
fell to third from second with $13 million in theaters its
second week. In the News Corp. film, Washington plays a veteran
railroad engineer and  Chris Pine  portrays an inexperienced
conductor who try to stop a runaway train.  Warner Bros.’ “Due Date” dropped to fourth place from
third with $8.9 million. The movie stars  Robert Downey Jr . as a
man trying to get home in time for the birth of his first child.  “The Next Three Days,” from Lions Gate Entertainment
Corp., opened in fifth place with $6.5 million. The movie stars
 Russell Crowe  as a husband who attempts to break his wife out of
prison.  The weekend’s top 12 films grossed $186.4 million, down 25
percent from a year earlier, according to Hollywood.com. This
year’s domestic box office increased to $9.36 billion, up 2.4
percent from a year earlier. Attendance is down 2.7 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Nov.
19 to Nov. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 