-- Abbas Says He Will Reject Any U.S. Freeze Proposals That Exclude Jerusalem
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-11-21T16:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/abbas-says-will-reject-u-s-proposals-that-exclude-jerusalem-construction.html
Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  said he will reject any U.S. proposal seeking to
resume peace talks with Israel if it doesn’t include a freeze on
Jewish settlement construction in east Jerusalem.  “If it doesn’t include Jerusalem of course we will reject
it,” Abbas told reporters in Cairo today after meeting Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak . The Palestinians want east Jerusalem to
be the capital of a future state.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has proposed that
Israel freeze West Bank settlement construction for 90 days in
exchange for 20 warplanes and a U.S. pledge to veto any attempt
in the United Nations to impose a peace agreement, according to
diplomats familiar with the deal.  The U.S. has been trying to coax the sides back to talks
since they stalled when a 10-month partial Israeli freeze on
settlement building expired on Sept. 26. If Israel and the
Palestinians accept the plan, it will keep alive President
Barack Obama’s effort to prod the two sides toward a
comprehensive peace agreement.  The proposed moratorium doesn’t cover building in east
Jerusalem, diplomats familiar with the offer said.  Abbas said that he hasn’t received any U.S. proposal for
renewing talks, though he expects this to happen “any moment.”
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said on Nov. 18 he was
confident that his cabinet will accept the U.S. plan.  ‘Seven Options’  “We have seven options, first of which is direct talks and
we need to let this option run its course, and if we fail the
other options will come one after another,” Abbas said. He
didn’t disclose the other options.  In response to Abbas’ ultimatum about east Jerusalem, State
Department Spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in an e-mail that
the administration is “trying to create the conditions for
resumption of direct negotiations. This is a work in progress.”  Netanyahu and Abbas agreed in September to try to reach an
agreement on the framework for a comprehensive peace accord
within a year. All the issues at the heart of the conflict would
be on the table, including the borders of a future Palestinian
state, security arrangements for Israel, the status of Jerusalem
and the right of return for Palestinian refugees.  The Israeli leader told members of parliament from his
Likud party today that he will not engage in talks that focus
only on borders, without also discussing the other issues. He
said he has yet to receive a written proposal from the U.S.  Settler Rally  “There is no agreement that within 90 days we will come to
a conclusion on the subject of borders,” Netanyahu said,
according to a text message sent to reporters from his office.
“There is no request like this and there is no obligation like
this.”  At least 5,000 West Bank settlers rallied outside
Netanyahu’s office building in Jerusalem today to demand that
the government rejects the U.S. proposal for another
construction freeze, police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said in a
phone interview.  Many Israeli schools in the West Bank suspended classes so
that students could attend the rally, said Naftali Bennett,
director-general of the Yesha Council, which represents about
300,000 settlers in the West Bank.  “If the government goes ahead with this proposal instead
of standing tall and resisting American pressure, it’s nothing
less than a national disgrace,” Bennett said in a phone call.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the territory
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which the
government calls outposts, were built during the past decade.  Legacy of 1967  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and east
Jerusalem since Israel took over the areas in the 1967 conflict.
The UN says the settlements are illegal, and the International
Committee of the Red Cross says they breach the Fourth Geneva
Convention governing actions on occupied territory. Obama has
said the settlements aren’t legitimate.  Israel says settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirchberg@bloomberg.net . 