-- Afghanistan's President Karzai Supports U.S., NATO Strategy, Clinton Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-22T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/afghanistan-s-karzai-supports-u-s-nato-strategy-clinton-says.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  is
“fully in support” of U.S. and NATO strategy in Afghanistan,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said after the alliance set a
plan to hand over security to the Afghans by 2014.  Clinton also stressed the need for the Senate to ratify the
new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty with Russia in television
appearances yesterday, as well as the broad support of NATO
countries for President  Barack Obama ’s strategy in Afghanistan.  Karzai “is fully in support of the strategy, he is fully
in support of the fact that it is making progress,” Clinton
said in an interview that aired yesterday on the CBS “Face the
Nation” program.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization two days ago
embraced Karzai’s target date to hand security over to Afghan
forces by the end of 2014, creating a timetable in the 10-year-
old conflict.  Obama for the first time said the handover meant U.S.
combat operations in Afghanistan may wrap up in 2014. The pace
and timing of the withdrawal will depend on conditions on the
ground, with the gradual pullout set to start in July 2011,
Obama has said.  Taliban Response  The Taliban responded Nov. 20 with a vow to force the NATO
coalition to abandon Afghanistan before 2014, according to the
Associated Press. In an e-mailed message, Taliban spokesman
 Zabihullah Mujahid  promised continued violence.  “In the past nine years, the invaders could not establish
any system of governance in Kabul and they will never be able to
do so in future,” Mujahid said in the e-mail, AP reported.  The militant group’s spokesman said that until 2014,
“various untoward and tragic events and battles will take place
as a result of this meaningless, imposed and unwinnable war,”
according to AP.  Karzai and General  David Petraeus , head of NATO and U.S.
forces, are “working closely together,” Clinton said. Karzai
“is very sensitive” that during allied operations “we are
actually getting the bad guys and not conducting actions that
result in a lot of civilian casualties,” Clinton said on CBS.  In her appearances, Clinton also said ratifying the New
START treaty is essential to U.S. national security interests.
Support for the treaty is widespread and bipartisan within the
U.S. national security community, she said.  Support for START  “Our entire military leadership, as well as six former
secretaries of state, five former secretaries of defense, three
former national security advisors, and seven former commanders
of U.S. Strategic Command support this treaty and support it
now,” Clinton said Nov. 19.  “This is beyond politics, let’s pass it by an overwhelming
bipartisan vote,” Clinton said on CBS.  Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , the Senate’s second-ranking
Republican, said Nov. 16 that pressing business wouldn’t allow
full consideration before year’s end of “the complex and
unresolved issues related to START.”  Kyl, a frequent guest on Washington’s Sunday morning talk
shows, did not appear on any of them yesterday.  Clinton cited the late Republican President  Ronald Reagan ’s
adage “trust but verify,” on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program,
and added that “we have no verification without a treaty about
what’s going on in Russia’s nuclear program.”  On the Ground  “We want to get our inspectors back on the ground,”
Clinton said on NBC. “And the only way to do that is by
ratifying this treaty.”  Obama, speaking to reporters at the close of the NATO
summit two days ago, said the START arms treaty he and Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  signed in April would reduce nuclear
arsenals and improve relations between the two nations.  Obama and Medvedev had a 15- to 20-minute meeting on the
sidelines of the summit, accompanied only by a translator,
Deputy National Security Advisor  Ben Rhodes  said.  Medvedev expressed confidence that Obama would get the
treaty ratified, said another administration official, who spoke
Nov. 20 on condition of anonymity.  Obama has said failure to ratify the treaty could destroy
the new policy to “reset” relations between the U.S. and
Russia. Russia has provided “enormous help” in instituting
sanctions on Iran and in accepting transit agreements that allow
the U.S. to supply troops in Afghanistan because of reset
policy, Obama said.  “It would be a profound mistake for us to slip back into
mistrust as a consequence of our failure to ratify,” the
president said.  The new START treaty would limit each side’s strategic
warheads to no more than 1,550, from 2,200 allowed previously,
and sets a maximum of 800 land-, air- and sea-based launchers.  Each of the last three arms-reduction treaties was ratified
with more than 90 votes in the 100-member Senate. The previous
treaty expired in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  