-- Mancini Says Manchester City's Players Must Keep Working After Goal Glut
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2010-11-22T00:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/manchester-city-beats-fulham-4-1-in-league-blackburn-defeats-villa-2-0.html
Manchester City’s  Roberto Mancini 
told his players to keep working after a 4-1 win at Fulham that
halved the gap to Premier League leader Chelsea to three points.  Carlos Tevez  got two goals, with Pablo Zabaleta and  Yaya Toure  also scoring as City secured its fourth away league
victory of the season yesterday. City had previously failed to
score in home draws against Manchester United and Birmingham.  “We must continue to work and improve every game, every
day, only that way can we win,” Mancini told Sky Sports. “In
our minds, we must only think about working.”  City rises one spot to fourth with 25 points. First-place
Chelsea and Manchester United have 28 points, with Arsenal on 26.
Blackburn beat Aston Villa 2-0 to climb to 11th.  City hadn’t scored more than three times in a match this
season and Fulham -- whose manager  Mark Hughes  was fired by City
in December 2009 and replaced by Mancini -- had the third-best
defense in the league before yesterday.  Tevez got the opening goal after only six minutes, firing a
low shot into the corner after turning past  Carlos Salcido .  Zabaleta then fired in from 20 yards in the 32nd minute,
with Toure giving the visiting team a three-goal advantage three
minutes later.  Tevez got his second of the game, and ninth of the season,
11 minutes after halftime. Standing immediately ahead of Fulham
goalkeeper  Mark Schwarzer , the Argentine striker deflected a
shot from his countryman Zabaleta into the net from close range.  Fulham substitute  Zoltan Gera  got his first league goal of
the campaign midway through the second half, with a deflection
off  Clint Dempsey  helping to beat  Joe Hart .  ‘Impression’  “Especially in the first half, it was the best we’ve
played,” City midfielder Gareth Barry told Sky. “It was a good
chance to make an impression and move up the league.”  Fulham remains 17th after its defeat -- only out of the
three-team relegation positions because it has a better goal
difference than Wigan.  At Ewood Park,  Morten Gamst Pedersen  scored both goals for
Blackburn to lift Rovers five spots in the standings, while
Villa drops one place to 13th.  It was Blackburn’s first match since the 1995 Premier
League champion became the first Indian-owned English soccer
team. The owners of poultry company Venky’s (India) Ltd.
completed their purchase last week.  “Hopefully, like every Blackburn fan, the players and
myself, they will be very happy with the way we have won and the
performance,” Blackburn manager  Sam Allardyce  told reporters.  Two days ago, Chelsea was upset 1-0 at Birmingham,
Manchester United defeated Wigan 2-0, and Arsenal lost 3-2 to
north London rival Tottenham.  Liverpool beat West Ham 3-0, Stoke City won 3-0 at West
Bromwich Albion, Blackpool defeated Wolverhampton Wanderers 2-1,
and Bolton thrashed Newcastle 5-1. Sunderland hosts Everton
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 