-- Harvard, Stanford, University of Chicago Win Most U.S. Rhodes Scholarships
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2010-11-21T17:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/harvard-chicago-top-2010-rhodes-scholar-roster-update1-.html
Harvard University, Stanford
University and the University of Chicago each had three students
awarded Rhodes Scholarships, more than any other institutions,
as the 32 U.S. recipients of the award were named today.  Other schools with multiple winners were Princeton
University and Yale University, according to a statement from
the Office of the  American Secretary  of the Rhodes Trust.  The Rhodes Scholarships were established in 1902 in the
will of  Cecil Rhodes , a British mine operator and explorer who
founded what is now the Johannesburg-based  De Beers Group .
Rhodes Scholarships fund two or three years of study at the
University of Oxford in the U.K. and are awarded based on
academic achievement, integrity of character, physical vigor and
potential for leadership, in accordance with Rhodes’s will.  Among the winners on the 2011 list was Harvard’s Baltazar
Zavala, a player on the  Crimson  football team, who yesterday
found a congratulatory text-message on his cell phone after a
game with Ivy League rival Yale, the Associated Press reported.
Harvard won the 127th annual contest, 28-21.  “I can’t think of a better day,” the AP cited Zavala as
saying.  More than 3,200 U.S. citizens have won Rhodes Scholarships
since the program’s inception. Past winners include former
President  Bill Clinton , former U.S. Senator  Bill Bradley  of New
Jersey,  Susan Rice , U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, and
 Rachel Maddow , who hosts “The Rachel Maddow Show” on MSNBC.  Harvard, Yale  The Ivy League again dominated this year’s awards in the
U.S. Harvard, in Cambridge, Massachusetts, has produced the most
Rhodes Scholars of any American institution with 328 prior to
this year. Yale, in New Haven, Connecticut, has 219, and
Princeton, in Princeton, New Jersey, turned out 193.  The winners are Anna Alekseyeva, Chicago; Caroline Barlow,
the U.S. Naval Academy; Alice Baumgartner, Yale; Megan Braun,
the University of California at Irvine; Tamma Carleton, Lewis
and Clark College; Nicholas DiBerardino, Princeton; Jared
Dunnmon, Duke University; Gabrielle Emanuel, Dartmouth College;
Zachary Frankel, Harvard; Kathleen Hansen, Montana State
University; Fagan Harris, Stanford; Mark Jia, Princeton; Daniel
Lage, Harvard; Jennifer Lai, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology; Andrew Lanham, Haverford College; Ye jin Kang, Rice
University; Prerna Nadathur, Chicago; Laura Nelson, University
of Virginia; Renugan Raidoo, University of Iowa; Fatima Sabar,
Stanford; John Scotti, Chicago; Varun Sivaram, Stanford; Aakash
Shah, Ursinus College; Paul Shorkey, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill; Priya Sury, Washington University;
Sarah Swenson, University of Oklahoma; Zujaja Tauqeer, Brooklyn
College; Esther Uduehi, Indiana University at Bloomington;
Matthew Watters, University of Delaware; Tracy Yang, University
of Georgia; Baltazar Zavala, Harvard; and William Zeng, Yale.  The 32 Rhodes scholars from the U.S. will join an
international group from 14 other countries and territories
around the world. About 80 scholars are selected worldwide each
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Staley  in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  