-- Atenor, BBVA, Nestle, Roche, Telenor: European Equity Preview
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K l e e g e
-- 2010-11-21T23:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/atenor-bbva-nestle-oranjewoud-roche-telenor-european-equity-preview.html
The following companies’ shares may
be active in  European  trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses,
and prices are from the previous close.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.6 percent to 269.50. The
 Stoxx 50 Index  declined 1 percent to 2,563.28. The  Euro Stoxx 50
Index , a benchmark for nations using the euro, slipped 0.3
percent to 2,845.75.  Atenor Group SA  (ATEB BB): The developer that is building
Belgium’s tallest residential skyscraper agreed to buy the
former headquarters of BACOB Bank CV in the European district of
Brussels for an undisclosed amount.  Separately, Atenor reiterated its forecast that 2010
earnings will be close to break-even “or even slightly
negative.” Atenor gained 1.7 percent to 33.99 euros.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA  (BBVA SM): Spain’s
second-largest bank said 98.2 percent of retail investors with
shares deposited at the bank have subscribed for its capital
increase to finance the purchase of a stake in Turkish lender
Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS. BBVA stock retreated 0.96 percent to
8.26 euros.  Bilfinger Berger SE  (GBF GY): The German construction
company restarted talks with Lend Lease Group about a possible
sale of its Valemus unit, The Australian said, without saying
where it got the information. Bilfinger is also pursuing plans
for an initial public offering of the unit in the first quarter
of 2011, the newspaper said. The shares climbed 0.9 percent to
57.64 euros.  British Land Co.  (BLND LN): The U.K. company that will
build the London tower popularly known as the Cheesegrater has
agreed on terms to buy the Drake Circus shopping mall, in
Plymouth, southwest England, from Kandahar Real Estate Ltd., the
Daily Telegraph said, without saying where it got the
information. The shares rose 0.2 percent to 496.3 pence.  Deutsche Post AG  (DPW GY): Europe’s biggest postal service
plans to sell Exel Transportation Services by the end of the
first quarter of 2011, Financial Times Deutschland said, citing
unidentified people at Deutsche Post. The shares were unchanged
at 13.77 euros.  E.ON AG  (EOAN GY): E.ON Ruhrgas AG and Sonatrach, Algeria’s
state-run energy company, have discovered gas during exploration
of Algeria’s Rhourde Yacoub block, E.ON Ruhrgas said. E.ON
shares were little changed at 22.90 euros.  European Aeronautics, Defense & Space Co.  (EAD FP): The
U.S. Air Force will delay until early next year its decision on
whether EADS or Boeing Co. wins a $35 billion contract to build
aerial refuelling tankers, an official said. A decision on the
contract had been set for late 2010. EADS shares were little
changed at 17.32 euros.  Lafarge SA  (LG FP): The world’s biggest cement maker is
focused on improving profit and cutting debt in the next 18
months as it cuts investment and costs and steps up asset sales,
Chief Financial Officer Jean-Jacques Gauthier said. “Post-
crisis” margins should be “even better” than pre-crisis
margins because of cost cuts, he added. The shares rose 1.4
percent to 45.39 euros.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  (LLOY LN): The U.K.’s biggest
mortgage lender may be recommended for breakup by a U.K.
government-appointed panel, reversing last year’s combination
with HBOS Plc, according to committee member Clare Spottiswoode,
the Financial Times said. The shares declined 1.6 percent to
66.72 pence.  Munich Re  (MUV2 GY): Chief Executive Officer  Nikolaus von Bomhard  said the German reinsurer’s investment in Irish
government bonds amounts to 2.4 billion euros ($3.3 billion) and
the total exposure to Portuguese, Italian, Irish, Greek and
Spanish bonds totals about 12 billion euros,  Tagesspiegel 
reported. The shares declined 0.7 percent to 113.15 euros.  Nestle SA  (NESN VX): The world’s largest food company is
the “ideal candidate” to invest in yoghurt maker Yoplait, Le
Matin Dimanche said, citing Yoplait Chief Executive Officer
Lucien Fa. Nestle dropped 0.3 percent to 55.55 francs.  Novartis AG  (NOVN VX): The Swiss drugmaker doesn’t plan job
cuts similar in scale to those announced at Roche Holding AG, a
company spokesman said, responding to a report in Der Sonntag
newspaper. The shares fell 0.4 percent to 56.3 francs.  Oranjewoud NV  (ORANW NA): The Dutch consulting firm said
third-quarter sales rose 8.9 percent to 114.8 million euros.
Orders rose 12.3 percent to 199.4 million euros. Oranjewoud
gained 1.3 percent to 4.839 euros.  Pirelli & C. SpA  (PC IM): Europe’s third-largest tiremaker
is negotiating a 1.2 billion-euro loan to refinance its debt, Il
Messaggero reported, without saying where it got the
information. Pirelli rose 0.4 percent to 6.09 euros.  Porsche SE  (PAH3 GY): The carmaker’s merger with  Volkswagen
AG  is continuing, Chief Financial Officer  Hans Dieter Poetsch 
told  Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung . Still, “hurdles”
in the process may cause a delay of the completion of the
merger, he said. Porsche rallied 2.1 percent to 50 euros, while
Volkswagen (VOW3 GY) jumped 3 percent to 122.70 euros.  Roche Holding AG  (ROG VX): The world’s biggest maker of
cancer medicines is looking for opportunities to make small-to-
medium-sized acquisitions or to gain rights to new products,
SonntagsZeitung reported, citing Chief Executive Officer  Severin Schwan . Schwan declined to comment on whether the drugmaker
would be interested in taking a stake in  Actelion Ltd . Roche
dropped 0.7 percent to 145.5 francs.  Sapec SA  (SAP BB): The third-largest supplier of crop-
protection products on the Iberian Peninsula forecast a full-
year profit excluding special items and said it still plans to
complete the sale of two thirds of its 58 percent stake in Grupo
Naturener SA before the end of the year. Sapec declined 1.3
percent to 50.01 euros.  Telenor ASA  (TEL NO): The Nordic region’s largest telephone
company said no wrong-doings were committed when it obtained a
mobile-phone license for its Indian division Uninor, NTB
reported, citing spokesman Glenn Mandelid. Telenor shares fell
1.1 kroner, or 1.2 percent, to 92.5 kroner.  Tesco Plc  (TSCO LN): The U.K.’s largest retailer said sales
rose in China, Korea, India, Thailand and Malaysia in the nine
weeks through Oct. 31. The stock fell 0.4 percent to 426.65
pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Kleege  in New York at 
 skleege@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  