-- ATP World Tour Will Extend Men's Tennis Offseason to Seven Weeks From 2012
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-21T18:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/atp-world-tour-will-extend-men-s-tennis-offseason-to-seven-weeks-from-2012.html
The men’s  ATP World Tour  will extend
the offseason to seven weeks from the end of 2012 so that tennis
players will have more time to rest and recuperate.  “The health and wellbeing of our players is a tour-wide
issue and preserving and extending the playing careers of our
top players is critical for the long-term good of the game,”
 Adam Helfant , executive chairman and president of the ATP World
Tour, said in a news conference today at the season-ending
championships in London. Currently there’s a five-week break.  “Our 2012 and 2013 calendars each provide for the seven-
week offseason, meaning that our players will have an additional
two weeks to spend away from the rigors of life on tour before
taking up the cause again in the following year,” said Helfant,
a former Nike Inc. vice president who joined the tour at the
beginning of 2009.  The change to the calendar was achieved by removing the
free week between the BNP Paribas Masters in Paris and the year-
end ATP World Tour Finals in London. The ATP also rescheduled
four late-season events in Montpellier, France, Bucharest, St.
Petersburg and Vienna to earlier in the year. That means the
players will have the additional weeks off without the
elimination of any ATP tournaments, Helfant said.  Since joining the men’s tennis tour, Helfant has made the
shortening of the season a key focus of his leadership.  Players including Britain’s  Andy Murray , top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  and  Roger Federer  have all been critical of the duration
of the season. The men’s tour consists of 62 events in 32
countries and runs from January until the end of November.  Some tournaments “have to be a little bit flexible,”
Federer told a news conference in Paris last week when asked
about the plans. Federer is a member of the ATP Players’ Council
alongside Nadal.  “I just think it’s time that we shifted back a bit and we
get a proper offseason,” said Federer, the winner of a men’s
record 16 majors. “I hope tournaments understand it’s in their
best interest as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Danielle Rossingh  at the
02 arena through the London sports desk at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  