-- Biden Asks Congress to Approve Funds for U.S. Military Transition in Iraq
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2010-11-21T17:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/biden-asks-congress-to-approve-funds-for-u-s-military-transition-in-iraq.html
The U.S. must spend billions of
dollars this fiscal year to “reinforce Iraq’s progress” as
America’s military mission transitions to a civilian-led effort,
Vice President  Joseph Biden  said.  Since the withdrawal of about 100,000 U.S. troops over the
last two years and the build-up of Iraqi security forces, “Iraq
today is far safer and more stable than at any time since the
outbreak of war in 2003,” Biden wrote in an op-ed column
published today in the New York Times.  Outlining a civilian mission for the U.S. for the coming
year, Biden said money is required to help Iraq’s leaders
conduct a census, resolve disputed internal boundaries, pass a
hydrocarbon law to guide the distribution of oil revenue, pass a
fiscally responsible budget and stabilize the economy through
foreign investment.  “That is why, even at this difficult economic time, we are
asking Congress to fulfill our budget requests to support
America’s continued engagement, including our broader diplomatic
presence, a modernization plan for the Iraqi security forces and
financing for a police development program,” Biden wrote.  The cost of the civilian effort is less than a third of the
$15 billion the U.S. will save in the coming fiscal year from
the troop drawdown.  The Defense Department spends about $10 billion or more a
year for every 10,000 troops in Iraq, said Michael Casey, a
member of the House Armed Services Committee’s staff.  There are now fewer than 50,000 U.S. troops in Iraq,
focused on training. They are scheduled to leave by the end of
next year. The number of U.S. military personnel in Iraq swelled
to about 170,000 in 2006 and 2007 during the height of the war.  Biden said the weekly tally of violent incidents in Iraq
has dropped to about 160 from almost 1,600 in 2007.  “Nevertheless, Iraq’s security forces are not yet ready to
operate fully on their own, and we must continue to support
them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Lerman  at   dlerman1@blooomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  