-- Burkina Faso Votes as Compaore Seeks his Fourth Term
-- B y   S i m o n   G o n g o   a n d   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-21T19:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/burkina-faso-votes-as-compaore-seeks-fourth-term-update1-.html
Voters in  Burkina Faso  cast their
ballots in an election today that is likely to extend the 23-
year rule of  Blaise Compaore  as president of one of the world’s
poorest countries.  Voting closed at 6 p.m. local time after polls opened at 6
a.m., Boris Edson Yameogo, a spokesman for the West African
nation’s electoral commission said today. Results are likely
within five days, the agency said last week.  “I am voting because I want change,” said Idrissa Tani, a
36-year-old a primary school teacher as she waited to cast her
ballot in Ouagadougou, the capital. Tani wants the government to
improve education, health care and agriculture.  Africa’s biggest cotton producer, landlocked Burkina Faso
is “heavily dependent” on exports of fiber and of gold,
according to the African Development Bank. Growth is projected
to accelerate to 5.5 percent in 2011 from 5.2 percent this year,
the International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 1.  Compaore, 59, “will win overwhelmingly again, but this
time probably slightly less than the 80 percent he got last
time,” said Oswald Felli, director of risk assessments at New
York-based DaMina Advisors LLP. “Compaore is very likely going
to want to continue the relative stability he has brought to the
Burkina Faso economy,” he said in an e-mail Nov. 17. “He will
focus on increasing gold production by creating attractive
incentives for foreign investors.”  Gold Output  In June, Mines Minister  Abdoulaye Abdoulkader Cisse  said
gold output would surge 60 percent to 20 metric tons this year
and that the country wanted to lure companies including
Colorado-based  Newmont Mining Corp.  and Brazil’s  Vale SA .  Avocet
Mining Plc , based in London, operates the Inata gold mine in the
country and Canada’s  Endeavour Mining Corp.  controls the Youga
mine.  Cotton production may rise 29 percent to 195,950 tons
during the 2010-11 harvest, according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.  Compaore has ruled Burkina Faso since he seized power in
1987. In 2005, the country’s Constitutional Court allowed him to
run for a third election, saying that new limits on the
presidential term were not retroactive, according to the U.S.
State Department. In August, Compaore’s ruling Congress for
Democracy and Progress proposed scrapping term limits.  Burkina Faso is ranked 161st out of 169 countries on the
United Nations’ Human Development Index, which measures life
expectancy, education and income.  The president “must develop agriculture because it employs
80 percent of our population,” said 56-year-old Mariam Yoni, a
retired agricultural agent as she voted in the capital today.
Reform in health care and education needs acceleration, she
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Gongo in Ouagadougou via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicky Smith in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 