-- Capital Flight to Double as Lowest Yields Spur Foreign M&A: Russia Credit
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-11-21T21:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/capital-flight-to-double-as-lowest-yields-spur-foreign-m-a-russia-credit.html
Capital  flight from Russia is
climbing as companies use record-low borrowing costs to fund the
most overseas acquisitions in two years, diversifying abroad as
domestic economic growth lags behind other emerging markets.  Russian companies have announced $27 billion of foreign
purchases this quarter, the most since the third quarter of 2008
and triple the amount in the last three-month period, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The cost for companies to borrow in
rubles is the lowest on record at an average 8.9 percent a year
in October from 9.7 percent in the previous month, according to
 data  from the central bank published on Nov. 18.  The increase in overseas investment and repayment of
foreign-currency debt drove Bank Rossii to more than double its
 projection  for 2010  capital outflows  last week to $22 billion
from $8.7 billion. Foreign investors put less money into Russia-
focused mutual funds in the past six months than any of the
other so-called BRIC nations -- Brazil, India and China -- as
investors favored more expensive shares in faster-growing
economies, EPFR Global data show.  “Acquisition of foreign assets by companies are having a
big impact on these  outflows ,”  Yaroslav Lissovolik , chief
economist in Moscow at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a phone
interview on Nov. 18. “We’ve seen recent acquisitions in the
telecoms sector and elsewhere and some of these flows are ending
up outside Russia.”  Fifty-two percent of Russian companies are seeking funding
to finance international mergers and acquisitions, according to
a poll of 100 M&A practitioners by Moscow law firm  Goltsblat BLP 
last month. That’s more than the 42 percent of companies looking
to fund capital expenditure.  Sberbank Loan  While purchases of foreign assets increased this quarter,
domestic acquisitions fell to $1.6 billion from $6.9 billion in
the previous three months and $22 billion in the second quarter,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  OAO Sberbank , Russia’s biggest lender, hired 14 foreign
banks to arrange a $2 billion syndicated loan to meet client
demand for the U.S. currency on Nov. 16. The loan is the largest
of its kind for a Russian bank, the Moscow-based bank said in a
 statement . Sberbank also  raised  $140.5 million in five-year
bilateral term loans arranged by WestLB AG the same day.  “As financial markets have stabilized, companies have
started to complete deals they’ve delayed during the course of
two years,”  Andrey Golikov , head of treasury and financial
markets at  Sberbank , said by e-mail on Nov. 19. “We expect to
see increased demand for credit resources, including those in
foreign currency, until the end of the first quarter.”  Vimpelcom, BP  VimpelCom Ltd. , Russia’s second-largest mobile-phone
operator, agreed last month to merge its phone assets with
Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  to create the world’s fifth-
largest mobile-phone company in a transaction valued at about
$6.5 billion. VimpelCom is raising a $4 billion bridge loan to
fund its bid, Reuters reported on Nov. 5.  Russian oil venture  TNK-BP  agreed to buy assets in
Venezuela and Vietnam from  BP Plc  for $1.8 billion on Oct. 18.
 OAO Rosneft , Russia’s largest oil producer, is considering
acquisitions of retail assets in Germany and other European
countries and plans to close a $1.6 billion deal to buy
 Petroleos de Venezuela SA ’s 50 percent stake in German refiner
Ruhr Oel in the first quarter of next year, Chief Executive
Officer  Eduard Khudainatov   said  in Warsaw on Oct. 29.  “One of the most important factors of such negative
dynamic for outflows was certainly demand from the corporate
sector to finance purchases of domestic assets from foreign
holders, acquisition of international assets and maturing
foreign debt,” said  Pavel Gurin , chief executive officer of  ZAO
Raiffeisenbank , the Russian unit of the Austrian lender that
operates in 17 former communist countries.  Maturing Debt  Russian banks and companies have about $16 billion in
foreign  debt  including  interest rate  payments coming due next
month, double the $8 billion in October and November, central
bank  data  show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian government
debt rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 1 basis point to 208 on
Nov. 19, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ indexes. The
so-called spread compares with 146 for debt of similarly-rated
Mexico and 177 for Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at
Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 38 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was unchanged at 141.5
basis points on Nov. 19, according to data provider CMA. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Federal Bonds  Russia credit-default swaps are 12.5 basis points more
expensive than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels
lower at Ba2 by Moody’s. Turkey was 40 basis points above Russia
on April 20.  Russia’s federal ruble bonds, or OFZs, declined, with the
yield on notes due 2016 adding 2 basis points on Nov. 19 to 7.35
percent. Government dollar bonds due 2020 were unchanged,
leaving the yield at 4.716 percent.  The ruble depreciated 0.4 percent to 31.1055 per dollar on
Nov. 19, dropping for the sixth day out of seven. Non-
deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements as they allow foreign
investors and companies to fix the exchange rate at a specific
level in the future, show the ruble at rate at 31.3350 per
dollar in three months.  Real Sector  Russia’s central bank expects fourth-quarter capital
outflows to reach $7 billion this quarter, First Deputy Chairman
 Alexei Ulyukayev  said in Moscow on Nov. 18. That would be the
second biggest total for the last three months of the year since
2001,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  The government earlier this year predicted net inflows for
the first time since 2007. Raiffeisen estimates that capital
flight this year through the middle of November reached about
$21 billion, said Gurin.  Nordea Bank AB , the Nordic region’s
biggest lender, said in a Nov. 17 report that the number has
already approached Bank Rossii’s full-year estimate of $22
billion.  “It’s not debt repayments, but rather Russian resident
investments abroad, not sufficiently outweighed by similar
inward portfolio or direct investments in Russia -- which have
been driving the capital outflow recently,”  Aurelija Augulyte ,
a Russia economist at Nordea, said in the report.  Russian  foreign direct investment  plunged an annual 17.8
percent to $8.2 billion in the first nine months of the year,
while overall foreign investment, including credits and flows
into the securities markets, slipped 13 percent from a year
earlier, the Moscow-based  Federal Statistics Service   said  on
Nov. 19. Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  predicted on Oct. 5 that
foreign direct investment will rise to $40 billion this year.  “We still don’t know how to attract investors into the
real sector,”  Bella Zlatkis , a deputy chief executive officer
at  Sberbank , said in an interview on Nov. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 