-- China Day Ahead: Reserve Ratio Increase; Hong Kong Measures on Real Estate
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-21T23:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/china-day-ahead-reserve-ratio-increase-hong-kong-real-estate.html
China’s reserve-ratio increases for
banks and threats of price controls on essential goods are
likely to prove insufficient to tame  inflation , and the central
bank will have to raise interest rates further, economists said.  The People’s Bank of China on Nov. 19 ordered a 50 basis
point increase in the amount of money that lenders must set
aside, two days after the cabinet announced measures to tackle
inflation. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Hong Kong Real Estate Curbs  Hong Kong intensified a yearlong battle to curb surging
home prices with additional taxes and higher down payments a day
after the International Monetary Fund warned that asset
inflation may derail the city’s  economy .  Homes sold within six months of purchase will incur a 15
percent stamp duty from Nov. 20, Financial Secretary  John Tsang 
said in a briefing. Down payments for homes costing HK$12
million ($1.5 million) or more will rise to 50 percent, from 40
percent. A stock gauge of developers in Hong Kong fell for the
eighth day in nine ahead of the announcements.  Playboy in Macau  Playboy Enterprises Inc. , seeking to revive its nightclubs
with bunny-suited waitresses, opens a club in Macau as it
forecasts Asia licensing revenue will double this year on
increased spending in  China .  “Asia is the most important market” and sales in the
continent may reach almost $20 million in 2010, Chief Executive
Officer  Scott Flanders  said in an interview in Hong Kong. The
Chicago-based company may double the share of sales it receives
from China, its fastest-growing market, to 20 percent of total
licensing revenue within three years, he said.  CIC General Growth  China Investment Corp. said it owns the equivalent of 74
million  shares  of Chicago-based  General Growth Properties Inc. ,
the second-largest U.S. mall owner.  The sovereign wealth fund holds 59.3 million common shares
through a company called Brookfield Retail Holdings III LLC,
according to a Form 4 filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. China Investment, based in Beijing, also
owns warrants on 14.7 million General Growth shares, according
to a separate filing.  Unipec Hires Supertanker  China International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp., the
trading unit known as Unipec, hired a supertanker to carry fuel
to China from Rotterdam, according to reports from two companies
including Optima Shipbrokers Ltd.  Unipec, China’s biggest oil trader, chartered the Athenian
Success, a Very Large Crude Carrier, to load 275,000 metric tons
on Dec. 4, according to reports, which didn’t specify whether
the cargo is crude or fuel oil. Rotterdam is part of the
European storage hub that includes Amsterdam and Antwerp.  GM China Sales  General Motors Co.,  the biggest U.S. automaker, expects its
sales in China to rise by as much as 15 percent next year as
demand for vehicles gains in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy.  “The underlying strength of the Chinese vehicle market is
very strong,”  Kevin Wale , GM’s China president, said in a
telephone interview from Shanghai. “Our target each year is to
grow in line with the market.”  Tencent Dispute  A dispute between Tencent Holdings Ltd. and Qihoo 360 is
being investigated by China’s Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology to determine if either company broke the
law, the official Xinhua news agency reported, citing an
announcement by the regulator.  The ministry ordered the two Internet companies to end
their row and publicly apologize for their “irresponsible
behavior” by Nov. 26, the agency said.  Turkmen Gas Imports  China may more than double imports of natural gas from
Turkmenistan in five years after opening a pipeline from the
Central Asian nation, which holds the world’s fourth largest
reserves of the fuel.  Turkmenistan plans to export 17 billion cubic meters of gas
to China next year, boosting that to the link’s full capacity of
40 billion cubic meters in 2015, Baymurat Hojamuhamedov, deputy
head of Turkmenistan’s Cabinet, said in Ashgabat.  Sino-Ocean Land Agreement  Sino-Ocean Land Holdings Ltd. said it and privately owned
Hong Kong property developer NF Group will set up a venture in
the northeast Chinese city of Dalian to jointly develop land
they both hold.  Sino-Ocean will hold 90 percent of the venture which will
involve a total investment of about $650 million, the company
said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange.  Maoye Acquisition  Maoye International Holdings Ltd. said a subsidiary agreed
to buy an 80 percent stake in China department store and
supermarket operator Zibo Dongtai Building Co. for 405.6 million
yuan.  The company, based in eastern Shandong province, owns three
department stores, operates one leasehold store and over 40
supermarket chain stores in Zibo city, Maoye said in a statement
to the Hong Kong stock exchange. The acquisition also includes
logistics unit Zibo Dongtai Jianghao Logistics which owns land
use rights for a site in the city, the company said.  Greenhouse Gas Measuring  China will help spur an agreement at climate-change
meetings this month in Mexico on the “nature” of measuring,
reporting and verifying greenhouse-gas reductions, a Ministry of
Foreign Affairs official said.  The world’s biggest power consumer seeks progress at the
talks to resolve a dispute between developed and developing
nations on how to share data about climate measures, Huang
Huikang, the ministry’s special representative for climate
change negotiations, said at a briefing in Beijing.  MARKETS:  U.S. stocks avoided a second straight weekly drop as
higher-than-expected corporate profits and Caterpillar Inc.’s
acquisition of Bucyrus International Inc. outweighed concern
over China’s decision to cool inflation.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, jumped 3.6 percent this week for the biggest gain in
the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Salesforce.com Inc., the
fourth-best performer in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in 2010,
surged 19 percent after its sales forecast beat estimates.
Urban Outfitters Inc. rallied 13 percent and Dell Inc. gained
3.5 percent after their profit topped projections.  The S&P 500 gained less than 0.1 percent to 1,199.73 this
week after plunging 2.2 percent the week before. The index slid
1.6 percent on Nov. 16, the biggest drop since August, amid
concern that the debt crisis in Ireland and Greece is worsening
and Chinese inflation-fighting measures will stifle economic
growth. The Dow rose 10.97 points, or 0.1 percent, to 11,203.55.  THE FOLLOWING STOCKS MAY BE ACTIVE TODAY:  Banks:  China ordered banks to set aside larger reserves
for the fifth time this year, draining cash from the financial
system to limit inflation and asset-bubble risks in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy. The ratio will increase 50 basis
points starting Nov. 29, the central bank said.  Bank of Communications Co. (601328 CH) closed unchanged at
5.78 yuan per share.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288
CH) gained 0.4 percent to 2.68 yuan apiece.  Changsha Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology
Development Co. (000157 CH): The company has got approval from
the China Securities Regulatory Commission to list its stock in
Hong Kong. The company rose 5 percent to 13.23 yuan per share.  Chigo Holding Ltd . (449 HK): The air conditioner maker said
it will raise a net HK$4.6 million in a placing of 100 million
unlisted warrants at 5 cents, and then as much as a further
HK$495 million on their conversion into shares. The stock gained
3.2 percent to HK$4.86.  China Environmental Resources Group Ltd . (1130 HK): The
animal waste processor said it signed a nonbinding term sheet
with an investment fund under which it proposes raising as much
as HK$350 million for development through the issue of new
shares and warrants. The stock has been halted since Oct. 28.  Irico Group Electronics Co . (438 HK): The electronic tube
maker will place 97.1 million shares at HK$1.26 each to raise
HK$122.3 million to fund the setting up of a solar photovoltaic
glass production line. The stock will resume trading.  Little Sheep Group Ltd . (968 HK): The restaurant operator
said it will buy 12.6 percent of Little Sheep Meat from Rixin
Group for 13.6 million yuan, taking its holding in the unit to
100 percent. The stock gained 1.4 percent to HK$5.07.  Morning Star Resources Ltd . (542 Hk): The travel-services
provider said it will raise about HK$241.5 million in a rights
offer of five shares at 20 Hong Kong cents each for each
existing share held, issuing two bonus shares for every five
rights shares taken up. The stock fell 3.1 percent to 19.1 Hong
Kong cents.  Oriental Ginza Holdings Ltd . (996 HK): The developer will
pay HK$210 million for an office tower, a commercial podium and
a portion of a residential building in Chongqing, China. The
stock was unchanged at HK$1.34.  Ping An Insurance  (Group) Co. (601318 CH): The insurer said
President Louis Cheung will resign effective March 18 for
“personal reasons” and will be replaced by Ren Huichuan. As
well, unit Ping An Trust Co. will buy a 9.9 percent stake in
Ping An Securities Co. from Shenzhen New Horse Investment
Development Co. for 1.22 billion yuan. The stock gained 0.1
percent to 57.71 yuan.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant at   bruceg@bloomberg.net . 