-- China Stock Index Declines After Reserve Requirment Increase; Banks Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-22T08:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/china-fighting-mode-on-reserves-ratios-may-hurt-stocks-bonds.html
China’s  benchmark stock index  fell
for the first time in three days as banks declined after policy
makers boosted the amount of money that lenders must set aside,
overshadowing gains for consumer staple producers.  China Construction Bank Corp.  dropped 2.3 percent after the
central bank ordered a 50 basis point increase in reserve ratios.
Poly Real Estate Group Co. lost 1.2 percent on concern mortgage
lending will decline.  Gansu Dunhuang Seed Co.  paced an advance
by agricultural companies after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
grain prices will rise next year, while ZTE Corp. rose among
telecommunication companies on speculation the government will
provide support to the technology industry.  Investors “should use this opportunity to buy on dips for
organic growth sectors, such as agriculture machinery, software
and advanced manufacturing and even the consumer sectors, like
food and beverage, department stores and supermarkets,” said
 Steven Sun , head of China equity strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc,
in an interview with Bloomberg Television today.  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 4.20, or 0.2 percent, to
2,884.37 at the 3 p.m. close, extending declines after its
biggest two-week decline since May on speculation that monetary
tightening will crimp economic growth. More than two stocks rose
for each that fell today on the gauge, which swung between gains
and losses more than 10 times. The CSI 300 Index slid 0.2
percent to 3,171.94.  Price Controls  The reserve ratio increase announced by the People’s Bank
of China on Nov. 19 to cool the fastest rise in consumer prices
in two years was the second in two weeks. The move came after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  held a Cabinet meeting earlier last week and
called for a crackdown on speculation in agricultural goods,
saying price controls may be needed on “daily necessities.”  Regional authorities must report before Nov. 30 on their
progress in stabilizing prices of essential services and goods
including food, the State Council said in a Nov. 20 circular on
its website. The notice also formally stated measures to ease
inflationary pressures as formulated in the meeting chaired by
Wen.  A  gauge  tracking financial companies slid 1.2 percent, the
most among the CSI 300. Construction Bank, the country’s second-
largest lender, lost 2.3 percent to 4.67 yuan, the lowest close
since Oct. 12. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the third
biggest, retreated 1.1 percent to 2.65 yuan. Poly Real Estate,
the second-largest developer, declined 1.2 percent to 12.25 yuan.  Stocks ‘Cap’  “When a country is in an inflation-fighting mode, it’s
typically not good for equities,” said  Jim Oberweis , who
oversees $10.3 billion as the president of Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., in Lisle, Illinois, on Nov. 19. “The growth
story is still positive, but I’m a little concerned that
inflation will be a cap on the stocks.”  The Shanghai Composite has lost 8.7 percent since reaching
a seven-month high on Nov. 8 on speculation the government will
raise interest rates and impose price controls.  Officials are seeking to rein in the money supply after the
Federal Reserve expanded U.S. stimulus with a plan to buy $600
billion of Treasuries, spurring capital flows into Asia.  Inflows of money from the trade surplus, foreign direct
investment, and investors betting on gains by the yuan threaten
to propel consumer prices after unprecedented lending by banks
flooded the economy with cash from late 2008.  Consumer prices 
rose 4.4 percent in October from a year earlier.  “People had thought we were nearer the end of the China
tightening cycle, and China is now giving a very clear
indication that they’re very intent on conquering inflation,”
 Philippe Langham , who manages the $653 million RBC Emerging
Market Fund in London, said in an interview on Nov. 19. “The
tightening is being extended further than market participants
had thought.”  Interest Rates  HSBC Holdings Plc, BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc., Credit
Suisse Group AG, UBS AG and Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. are among lenders predicting that the central bank
will add this year to the quarter-point increase that took the
benchmark one-year  lending rate  to 5.56 percent and the one-year
deposit rate to 2.5 percent.  The reserves ratio will probably be raised by a further 50
to 100 basis points before year-end, said  Lu Zhengwei , a senior
economist at Industrial Bank Co. in Shanghai. It’s “very
likely” the central bank will also increase interest rates as
early as the first half of December, when November inflation
figures are due, he said.  Consumer Staples  Gansu Dunhuang Seed climbed 1.3 percent to 31.94 yuan and
Shandong Denghai Seeds Co. increased 0.6 percent to 66.30 yuan.
Goldman Sachs initiated coverage of the two companies with
“neutral” ratings.  China’s grain prices will “rise steadily” at about 10
percent next year, benefiting the nation’s seed and fertilizer
companies, according to a Goldman report by  Jessie Pinglun Lai 
and  Chris Shiu .  Other producers of consumer staples also gained.  Kweichow
Moutai Co. , the nation’s biggest maker of baijiu liquor by
market value, rose 1.9 percent to 178.51 yuan. Inner Mongolia
Yili Industrial Group Co., the largest dairy producer by sales,
soared 2.7 percent to 41.77 yuan.  Indexes  tracking telecommunications and technology stocks
rose at least 4 percent. ZTE, China’s second-biggest phone-
equipment maker, gained 5.9 percent to 28 yuan, the most since
Oct. 8.  Zhejiang Dali Technology Co. , which develops infrared
imaging technology, jumped by the 10 percent daily limit to
37.40 yuan.  The stocks are expected to benefit from the government’s
next five-year plan starting 2011, Citic Securities analysts led
by  Chen Hualiang  wrote in a note today. The Shanghai Composite
may fluctuate around the 2,800-point level in the “short term”
because inflation may ease and the government will strike a
balance between growth and tighter lending, they wrote.  -- Zhang Shidong . With assistance from  Michael Patterson  in
London,  Belinda Cao  in Beijing,  Andrea Wong  in Taipei and  Ye Xie 
in New York. Editors:  Richard Frost ,  Darren Boey   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  