-- Consumer, Business Spending Probably Rose: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-11-21T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/consumer-business-spending-probably-rose-u-s-economy-preview.html
Consumer spending probably picked up
in October, and factories took more machinery orders, showing
the U.S. recovery strengthened entering the final quarter of
2010, economists said before reports this week.  Household purchases rose 0.5 percent after a 0.2 percent
gain in September, according to the median estimate of 61
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of Nov. 24 figures
from the Commerce Department. The same day, another report from
the agency may show bookings for  durable goods  excluding cars
and aircraft climbed 0.6 percent.  A better job market and bigger paychecks may give consumers
the confidence to keep spending during the holiday season,
broadening the economic rebound beyond manufacturing. Minutes
from the Federal Reserve’s meeting this month may help explain
why policy makers decided to begin supplying the world’s largest
economy with an additional $600 billion in monetary stimulus.  “As businesses invest more and hire more, it fuels
consumer spending in what we hope becomes a self-sustaining
cycle,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise
Financial Inc. in Detroit. “We’re seeing evidence of consumer
demand returning.”  Companies like  Dell Inc.  and  Caterpillar Inc.  are among
those benefiting from gains in  exports  and investments to
replace outmoded equipment. Businesses added 159,000 workers to
payrolls in October, a fourth month of gains exceeding 100,000,
according to Labor Department figures on Nov. 5.  Unemployment 
held at 9.6 percent.  Incomes Grow  The Commerce Department’s consumer spending report will
also show  personal income  rose 0.4 percent last month after
dropping 0.1 percent in September, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed.  Auto dealers are among retailers seeing demand improve. Car
sales in October rose to a 12.25 million unit annual pace, the
highest since the government’s cash-for-clunkers program in
August 2009, industry data showed this month.  The projected gain in durable goods bookings excluding
volatile demand for transportation equipment would follow a 0.4
percent decline the prior month. Total  durable goods orders  were
little changed after a 3.5 percent gain in September, according
to economists surveyed.  Dell, the third-largest supplier of personal computers,
last week posted earnings in the fiscal third quarter that beat
analysts’ predictions. Dell benefited from cheaper prices for
parts and buoyant spending from companies that are updating
aging personal computers and servers.  ‘Refresh Cycle’  “The refresh cycle is very much in full bloom,” Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Dell  said on a Nov. 18 call with
analysts.  Manufacturers like Caterpillar, the world’s biggest maker
of earthmoving equipment, are filling orders from China and
Brazil and domestic customers as firms upgrade equipment and
boost plant capacity to meet rising consumer demand.  “The recovery is happening,”  Doug Oberhelman ,
Caterpillar’s chief executive officer, said in an Oct. 21
interview with Bloomberg Television. “The numbers are
increasing monthly for us in North America and elsewhere.”  The strength in investment helps explain why shares of
machinery and parts makers have outperformed the broader index.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index is up 34
percent this year, compared with a 7.6 percent gain for the S&P
500.  The economy grew at a 2.4 percent annual pace in the third
quarter, more than 2 percent pace estimated last month,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed ahead of
revised figures from the Commerce Department on Nov. 23.  Home Sales  Housing, the industry that triggered the worst recession in
seven decades, is struggling to recover after a homebuyers’ tax
credit expired in April and foreclosures keep adding to
inventory.  Home sales dropped to a 4.80 million annual pace in October
from a 4.84 million rate the prior month, reflecting decreasing
demand for existing houses, according to economists surveyed.  The median forecast of economists  projected  a report from
the National Association of Realtors on Nov. 23 will show
 purchases  of previously sold houses fell 1.1 percent to a 4.48
million pace last month. Foreclosure moratoriums across the
country along with government investigations into faulty
paperwork threaten to delay a recovery as houses slated for
repossession take longer to come to market.  Foreclosures  Distressed purchases, which include foreclosures and short-
sales in which the bank agrees to take less than the full amount
of the mortgage, accounted for 35 percent of existing-home sales
in September, according to the agents’ group.  Demand for  new homes  rose 2.4 percent to a 315,000 annual
pace in October, economists forecast before a Nov. 24 report
from the Commerce Department. Sales in September were 78 percent
below the record reached in July 2005.  On Nov. 23, the Fed will release the minutes of its Nov. 2-
3 policy meeting that led to a second round of unconventional
monetary easing in a bid to lower unemployment and prevent
inflation from slowing even more. The report will also contain
policy makers’ updated economic forecasts.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  