-- Oil Has Biggest Weekly Decline in Three Months on China Bank Reserves Move
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-11-22T07:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/crude-oil-rises-as-irish-bailout-plan-may-ease-concern-over-european-debt.html
Oil rose, rebounding from its
biggest weekly loss in three months, amid optimism that an
agreement to rescue Ireland’s banks may reduce European
sovereign-debt concerns.  Futures retraced some of last week’s 4 percent slump after
Ireland yesterday applied for a bailout from the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund to save its banks. The
decision pushed the euro to a one-week high versus the dollar,
boosting the appeal of commodities to investors.  “The euro debt concerns are easing as Ireland has decided
to accept the bailout and that will lead to a weaker dollar,”
said  Serene Lim , a commodity strategist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore. “It’s more of the
dollar weakening that’s helping to drive oil higher.”  Crude for January delivery gained as much as 84 cents, or 1
percent, to $82.82 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $82.55 at 3:53 p.m.
Singapore time. On Nov. 19, the contract slipped 44 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $81.98. Futures are up 4.1 percent this year.  Prices fell at the end of last week after China ordered
banks to raise reserves in a move that may slow growth and crimp
fuel demand in the world’s largest energy-consuming country.  The  Dollar Index , used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the greenback against six major global currencies, fell
0.5 percent to 78.112. It’s down for a fourth day.  “The Irish debt situation has been contained for the
moment,” said  David Taylor , a market analyst at CMC Markets
Ltd. in Sydney.  Diesel Demand  U.S. diesel consumption increased in October from a year
earlier, a signal that the U.S. economy is rebounding, according
to the American Petroleum Institute.  Demand for ultra-low sulfur diesel, the type used on
highways, rose 8.4 percent to average 3.19 million barrels a day
last month, the industry-funded group said Nov. 19. Consumption
during the first 10 months of this year climbed 2.9 percent to
2.97 million barrels a day.  Hedge funds cut bullish bets on oil by the most in almost
three months. Large speculators reduced so-called  long
positions , or wagers on rising prices, by 15 percent in the
seven days ended Nov. 16, according to the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s weekly report Nov. 19. It was the
first drop in four weeks and the largest decline since the seven
days to Aug. 24.  Brent crude for January settlement advanced as much as 91
cents, or 1.1 percent, to $85.25 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. On Nov. 19, the contract dropped 71
cents, or 0.8 percent, to $84.34.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  