-- Do-It-Yourself Drug Injections May Help CSL Outpace Baxter
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-22T06:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/do-it-yourself-drug-injections-may-help-csl-outpace-baxter.html
Sara Ahrens pinches her thigh,
pushes a half-inch needle into her skin and turns on a pump.
Then she sits back to watch “Grey’s Anatomy” at her Long Beach,
California, home as life-saving liquid flows into her body.  Ahrens is one of about 10 million people worldwide whose
bodies don’t produce enough antibodies, leaving them vulnerable
to infections healthy people fend off without help. Last month,
the 36-year-old teacher began home injections of the Hizentra
immune-system booster from  CSL Ltd. , ending a seven-year ritual
of monthly trips to a clinic to have rival products pumped into
a vein.  “I like the fact that I can do it at home and I don’t have
to worry about taking time off work,” Ahrens said in a
telephone interview while infusing  Hizentra . “Sometimes I grade
papers and sometimes I watch TV. I’ve cooked before.”  Doctors and analysts predict a surge in the number of U.S.
patients switching to Hizentra in search of a more convenient
option. Hizentra, the most advanced in the fastest-growing class
of treatment for such ailments, may help  CSL  overtake  Baxter
International Inc. ’s lead in the $5 billion global market for
antibody-boosting drugs, or immunoglobulins, said  Shane Storey ,
an analyst at Wilson HTM Ltd. in Brisbane.  “The dominance they might have there is really under-
appreciated,” Storey, who rates Melbourne-based CSL “buy,”
said in a telephone interview. He is the  top-ranked  analyst
among 16 covering the company in the past year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Market Lead  CSL , whose U.S. immunoglobulin market share of 29 percent
trails Baxter’s 33 percent, rose 1.2 percent to A$35.16 at the
4:10 p.m. close in Australian trading, the most since Nov. 11.
The stock has advanced 8.2 percent this year, compared with a 12
percent drop for Deerfield, Illinois-based  Baxter .  Hizentra lets patients treat themselves at home with simple
injections that take as little as 90 minutes once or twice a
week, after basic training by a nurse. The shots don’t require
refrigeration, unlike rival products, and are given
subcutaneously or just under the skin, typically in the stomach,
thighs, upper arms or hips.  The medicine, which builds on research by Nobel Prize
winner  Emil von Behring  more than a century ago, was approved in
March in the U.S. for people such as Ahrens with  primary
immunodeficiency , a family of 150 mostly inherited disorders.  The Australian company became the first to sell
subcutaneous immunoglobulins in the U.S., the world’s largest
drug market, when its Vivaglobin product was approved in 2006.  Severe Infection Risk  Without immunoglobulin, patients are at risk of severe
recurrent infections, which can be fatal or cause complications
such as chronic lung disease, meningitis or arthritis, said Hans
Ochs, a professor of pediatrics at Seattle Children’s Hospital,
who has used such drugs since 1973.  Hizentra is designed to replace intravenous infusions such
as  Talecris Therapeutics Holdings Corp. ’s Gamunex and Baxter’s
Gammagard that usually require patients to go to a clinic or
hospital once a month for several hours each time. Ahrens said
that process meant taking time off work and caused side effects
she doesn’t get with CSL’s treatment.  “I was getting nauseous and light-headed, my veins were
starting to hurt, and they were having a hard time finding a
vein,” she said.  Each gram of Hizentra packs a higher concentration of
antibodies than competing medicines, potentially reducing
treatment times and costs. That will appeal to patients, doctors
and insurers, said  David Low , a health-care analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG in Sydney.  Rival Products  Baxter awaits approval from the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  for its subcutaneous immunoglobulin and is
concluding a late-stage trial of another product that may let
patients administer a monthly dose with one injection at home,
 Deborah Spak , a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Talecris , based in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina,
received  approval  Oct. 13 for its subcutaneous product, Gamunex-
C, which contains half the antibody concentration of Hizentra.
It’s the only immunoglobulin that offers both an intravenous and
subcutaneous mode of administration so patients don’t have to
switch products if they want to change the way they receive it,
Becky Levine, a Talecris spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Its lower concentration means it will take patients twice
as long to infuse as Hizentra, said  Lisa Kobrynski , an associate
professor of pediatrics at Emory University in Atlanta, who has
used  immunoglobulin products  to treat patients for 16 years.  ‘Superior Product’  “Even as the competition is now arriving, CSL has a
superior product,” Low said. “CSL’s product superiority and
recognition among patients that this is a more convenient
treatment form means it will continue to grow.”  Hizentra sells for $74.12 a gram, according to  FFF
Enterprises Inc. , a Temecula, California-based distributor.
Ahrens said she uses 26 grams a week, translating to a cost of
about $100,000 a year, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Prices of intravenous treatments range from $64.70 a gram
for Carimune, a CSL product, to $90.35 a gram for Baxter’s
Gammagard, according to FFF.  Revenue from  Hizentra  and Vivaglobin, a less concentrated
subcutaneous treatment, will expand about 20 percent annually
for the next three to five years as volumes rise, Paul Perreault,
executive vice president of worldwide commercial operations,
said in a telephone interview.  Sales of both drugs jumped 35 percent to about $200 million
in the year ended June, making them CSL’s fastest growing
product group, said  Sharon McHale , a spokeswoman for the company.
Total revenue fell 3.6 percent to A$4.46 billion ($4.4 billion)
last fiscal year. Baxter’s 2009  revenue  was $12.6 billion.  Full Capacity  CSL currently makes Hizentra at a factory in Bern,
Switzerland, that’s running at full capacity, Perreault said.
The company expects FDA approval by “mid to late summer” next
year for Hizentra produced at a neighboring plant, based on a
conservative timeline, he said.  The second plant will allow CSL to quadruple capacity for
Hizentra and help boost  earnings  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization from blood therapies by 15 percent
in five years, Wilson HTM’s Storey said.  Even Levels  Weekly subcutaneous injections have fewer serious side
effects and maintain antibodies at a more even level in the
blood than the peaks and troughs associated with monthly
intravenous infusions, Emory’s Kobrynski said.  “Patients who’ve switched to subcutaneous infusions by and
large love it,” she said in a telephone interview. The doctor
said almost half her patients already use Vivaglobin and she
plans on switching them to Hizentra.  Children and their parents usually prefer subcutaneous to
intravenous treatment because it avoids the need to go to a
hospital or clinic, which can be a “very traumatic
experience,” according to Seattle Children’s Hospital’s Ochs.  Some people may prefer to stay on intravenous
immunoglobulins, such as elderly patients who like having a
nurse present, or those who are squeamish about injecting
themselves, Kobrynski said.  Patients who moved to subcutaneous from intravenous
treatments increased their antibody levels by an average of 5.4
percent after a year and used 28 percent less medicine,
according to a  study  published in July in the Journal of
Clinical Immunology.  “The difference I have seen in satisfaction is to be in
charge and do it yourself at home, rather than have to dance to
someone else’s music,” Ochs said. “I’m a great supporter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 