-- Energy Mergers Spur Oil India, GAIL Debut Bonds: India Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-11-22T07:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/energy-m-a-spurs-oil-india-gail-debut-international-bonds-india-credit.html
India’s biggest energy companies are
lining up their first overseas bond sales, seeking cheaper
funding to compete with Chinese rivals for resources from
Australia to Brazil and Canada.  GAIL India Ltd., Asia’s most-profitable gas utility, and
state-owned explorer Oil India Ltd. are considering debut
foreign-currency debt issues to help fund mergers and
acquisitions, their finance directors said. While Indian dollar
debt yields have risen to  4.94 percent  on average from 4.29
percent a month ago, they’re still 3.7 percentage points less
than five-year  rupee rates , HSBC Holdings Plc indexes and data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The resource-related emerging-market issuers are large
enough to be credible in the bond market, so we would be
interested in those companies if they offer M&A plays,” said
 Jani Kurppa , a bond investor in Helsinki at EQ Asset Management
Ltd., which manages $1.4 billion. “There are only a few Indian
companies with U.S. dollar bonds and that limits the country
allocation in our portfolio.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  ordered companies in March to
step up purchases abroad to bolster energy security and feed the
fastest  economic expansion  in two and a half years. Indian
corporations with $25 billion of cash reserves are outmuscled by
China including Hong Kong, where corporates held $104 billion as
of June 30, a Moody’s Investors Service survey of 121 non-bank
entities showed.  Rising Acquisitions  Companies including Reliance Industries Ltd. have announced
$8.1 billion of acquisitions in basic materials, energy and
utility assets outside the country since the global credit
crisis in September 2008, according to Bloomberg data.
Petrochina Co. and other Chinese companies bought $73.6 billion
of assets over the same period.  Elsewhere in India’s credit market, government bonds
rallied last week and the cost to protect against losses on debt
of State Bank of India, a state-controlled lender that is the
nearest measure for sovereign debt, fell. The cost of one-year
interest-rate swaps, a fixed payment made to receive floating
rates, declined.  “Economic data has provided some relief to the bond market
in the past week,” said Namrata Padhye, a Mumbai-based fixed-
income strategist at IDBI Gilts Ltd., a primary dealer that
underwrites government debt sales. “Easing food inflation and
weak industrial growth have reinforced expectations that the
central bank won’t continue its aggressive policy approach.”  Yields Drop  The yield on India’s May 2020 notes dropped two basis
points to 8.01 percent as of 12:13 p.m. in Mumbai, narrowing the
gap with Treasuries to 512 basis points. The spread was 567, or
5.67 percentage points, on Oct. 20, the  widest  since 2001,
Bloomberg data shows.  Rupee-denominated government bonds returned 4.1 percent
this year, the third-worst among 10 local-currency debt markets
outside Japan, HSBC indexes show. The Reserve Bank of India has
raised its  repurchase rate  six times in 2010 by a cumulative 150
basis points to 6.25 percent.  The cost to protect against losses on debt of State Bank of
India declined 2.6 basis points to 164.4 basis points on Nov.
19, according to credit-default swaps prices from New York-based
CMA. The contracts reached a one-month high of 169.4 on Nov. 17.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, a fixed payment
made to receive floating rates, was little changed at 6.72
percent, compared with 6.735 percent on Nov. 12. The rate is up
from this year’s low of 4.78 percent in May 6.  India’s rupee fell 1.5 percent against the dollar in the
past month as the yield advantage narrowed, trimming its gains
for the year to 2.8 percent. The currency was little changed at
45.29 per dollar from Nov. 19.  The nation’s foreign-exchange reserves fell $1.9 billion to
$298.3 billion in the week ended Nov. 12, the central bank said
Nov. 19. The change in foreign-currency assets is partly because
of the change in the value of the dollar against the euro, yen
and other currencies during the period, the central bank said.
Reserves, which comprise currencies, gold and special drawing
rights with the IMF, climbed $11.9 billion in the past year.  ‘Actively Studying’  The government formed a panel in July to find ways to
employ its reserves to help state-owned companies bid for energy
assets. India’s $1.3 trillion economy, Asia’s fourth-largest,
depends on imports for more than 75 percent of its oil and gas
needs. Cash reserves rose almost 60 percent between the end of
2008 and mid-2010 as operating performances improved and debt-
raising, Moody’s said in a report.  Oil India, based in the northeastern state of Assam, is
“actively studying” assets in Australia, South America and
Africa and hopes to complete a deal soon as it seeks a credit
rating, Finance Director T.K.  Ananth Kumar  said.  “We want to leverage our balance sheet by taking on some
debt,” he said in a phone interview on Nov. 18. “Interest
rates overseas are cheaper than in India so a foreign-currency
debt makes sense.”  New Delhi-based GAIL, which topped Tokyo Gas Co. as Asia’s
best gas utility in  Platts Top 250 Companies  based on returns on
invested capital, is looking for overseas assets and “will
consider bond sales among its funding options,” Finance
Director R.K. Goel said in an interview on Nov. 18.  ‘Well-Funded’  Indian Oil Corp. , the biggest refiner and based in New
Delhi, plans to sell an additional $500 million of overseas
bonds by March, Finance Director Serangulam V. Narasimhan said
Nov. 13.  Hindustan Petroleum Corp.  is seeking $200 million of
loans, Finance Director B. Mukherjee said a day earlier.  “Indian companies are more value-oriented in their
acquisitions as they give more significance to profitability,”
 Jal Irani , who tracks energy companies at Macquarie Securities
Ltd. in Mumbai, said in a phone interview. “These energy
companies are well-funded, have good credit strength and should
be able to tap overseas bond markets without any problem.”  The yield on Indian Oil’s 4.75 percent bond due in 2015
increased one basis point to 3.58 percent, according to Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The rate climbed 18 basis points
last week. It reached as low as 2.854 percent on Oct. 8.  “I would welcome any Indian companies to the market,”
said Kurppa at EQ Asset, which owns debt sold by ICICI Bank
Ltd., State Bank of India Ltd. and state oil companies from
Malaysia, Brazil and Russia. “There hasn’t been much supply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 