-- Ireland Seeks Bailout as ‘Outsized’ Problem Overwhelms Nation
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2010-11-21T21:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/lenihan-says-he-will-recommend-ireland-should-formally-ask-for-eu-bailout.html
Ireland applied for a bailout to
help fund itself and save its banks, becoming the second euro
member to seek a rescue from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund.  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said he expects talks on
the package to be completed in the “next few weeks.” Finance
Minister  Brian Lenihan  said the loan will be less than 100
billion euros ($137 billion), though he refused to give any
further details at a press conference in Dublin today.  “A small sovereign like Ireland faced with an outsized
problem that we have in our banking sector, cannot on its own
address all those problems,” Lenihan said. Ireland may not draw
down on the entire loan, he said.  The bailout follows two years of budget cuts that failed to
restore  market confidence  as the cost of shoring up the
financial industry climbed. After Irish bond yields soared in the
past month, European authorities pushed Ireland to seek aid to
prevent the crisis that began in Greece this year from spreading
to other euro-area countries such as Portugal.  “It was inevitable. Ireland had no choice but to get
financial help,” said  Nicholas Stamenkovic , a fixed-income
strategist in Edinburgh at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a broker
for money managers. “The market will still be waiting for the
details of the assistance and the conditionality, but there
should be a relief rally tomorrow.”  Bank Crisis  The cost of saving Ireland’s banks threatens a rerun of the
Greek debt crisis that destabilized the euro region earlier this
year. Lenihan said Ireland’s banks need a “contingent capital”
fund and he indicated that the state will not be able to borrow
in  bond  markets next year at current interest rates.  While the banks have been directed by the country’s
financial regulator to have core Tier 1 capital ratios of at
least 8 percent, Cowen said that “clearly, the markets are
looking for perhaps a higher capital ratio.”  “Stress testing will obviously have to be undertaken in
relation to the banking system” to determine how much capital
may be needed, Cowen said.  Ireland’s lenders are reeling from the collapse of the
property market in 2008, while the government’s finances have
been eroded by the recession. An unprecedented budget deficit --
equaling one-third of economic output this year -- sent bond
yields to all-time highs.  Allied Irish Banks Plc , Ireland’s
second-biggest bank, emphasized the fragility of the financial
system on Nov. 19, reporting a 17 percent decline in deposits
this year.  ‘Firepower’  While Ireland may not fully use any cash it gets from the
EU and IMF, Lenihan said the size of the package “is important
to demonstrate” the “firepower that stands behind the banking
system.”  The Irish turmoil has also reopened tensions about the
governance of the euro region after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  last month called for bondholders to foot more of the
bill of European bailouts. Her stance, criticized European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , sparked a bond
market selloff.  The risk premium on Ireland’s 10-year debt over German
bunds, Europe’s benchmark,  widened  to 652 basis points on Nov.
11, with the yield reaching a record 9.1 percent. The spread was
at 541 on Nov. 19. In 2007, it cost Ireland less than Germany to
borrow, with the yield on Irish 10-year bonds 77 basis points
below the rate on bunds.  ‘Celtic Tiger’  Ireland was one of the poorest countries in Europe when it
joined the EU in 1973 along with Britain. Even with European
subsidies, unemployment in the mid-1980s averaged 16 percent.  In the 1990s, lured by a 12.5 percent corporate tax,
companies such as Pfizer Inc. and Microsoft Corp.  helped
Ireland export its way into becoming the “Celtic Tiger.” The
jobless rate sank to 3.9 percent by 2001. In the decade through
2006, Ireland grew at an average annual rate of about 7 percent,
the fastest among euro-area countries.  That expansion, together with easy credit, fanned a real-
estate bubble. Home prices almost quadrupled in the decade
through 2007. It went disastrously wrong for Ireland following
the 2008 demise of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc ., which turned
the slowdown in the property market into an implosion that
engulfed the economy. The  ISEQ stock index  has plunged 70
percent from its record in 2007.  Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said total loan
losses at the country’s lenders, including foreign-owned banks,
total at least 85 billion euros, about half of GDP. Residential
property prices have dropped 36 percent since 2006, based on an
index compiled by  Irish Life & Permanent Plc  and the Economic &
Social Research Institute in Dublin, requiring the bank rescue
that is emptying government coffers.  “Whatever about the government, we need an immediate
announcement on the banks,”  Dermot O’Leary , chief economist at
Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin, said in an interview. “The
banks are the most pressing issue now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  