-- EU Ministers Said to Plan Meeting Tonight as Irish Talks Ongoing
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-21T12:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/eu-ministers-said-to-plan-meeting-tonight-as-irish-bailout-talks-continue.html
European finance ministers are
planning a conference call this evening as Ireland edges closer
to applying for an international bailout, said a European Union
official with direct knowledge of the meeting.  Ireland may make a statement as early as this afternoon as
talks with the EU and the International Monetary Fund progress,
two separate EU officials said. Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  is
chairing a cabinet meeting in Dublin today to discuss the
country’s four-year budget outlook and international officials
are working through the weekend to finish an aid deal for the
country’s banks and avoid a fresh setback in financial  markets .  The aid talks began three days ago after a meeting of EU
finance ministers urged Ireland to agree to a package within
days. The plan, which will focus on a banking industry reeling
from the 2008 property crash, may total as much as 100 billion
euros ($136 billion), according to Barclays Capital.  Allied Irish Banks Plc , Ireland’s second-biggest bank,
emphasized the fragility of the financial system Nov. 19,
reporting a 17 percent decline in deposits this year. IMF
Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn said Europe is moving
“too slowly” to resolve the sovereign debt crisis that began in
Greece.  Investors dumped Irish bonds this month on concern about
the nation’s ability to keep its financial system afloat. The
premium that investors demand to hold Irish 10-year bonds over
the benchmark German bonds rose 3 basis points Nov. 19 to 544
basis points. The spread, a measure of the risk of investing in
Irish debt, declined from a record 646 basis points on Nov. 11
as investors anticipated a rescue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at  jfraher@bloomberg.net  