-- Euro Declines on Irish Government's Plan to Dissolve, Moody's Debt Outlook
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-22T22:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/euro-gains-after-ireland-agrees-with-european-union-on-bank-rescue-package.html
The euro fell for the first time in
four days versus the dollar and yen after Ireland’s government
started to unravel and Moody’s Investors Service said it may
lower the nation’s credit rating by more than one level.  The dollar and yen advanced against most of their major
counterparts as a drop in stocks encouraged investors to seek
refuge from Europe’s financial crisis. The euro slid from a one-
week high against the dollar as Ireland’s Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said a day after asking for European aid that the
government will resign following passage of the nation’s budget.  “Political uncertainty in Ireland could risk the timely
implementation of the new budget and the austerity measures
required to bring the deficit down,” said  Omer Esiner , chief
market analyst in Washington at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange
Inc., a currency brokerage. “That’s a large negative for the
euro.”  The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.3627 at 5 p.m. in New York,
from $1.3673 on Nov. 19, after reaching $1.3786, the highest
since Nov. 11. The common currency decreased 0.6 percent to
113.56 yen, from 114.23. The dollar dropped 0.3 percent to 83.33
yen, from 83.55.  A close in the euro below $1.3648 means it may depreciate
to $1.3510 or to the November low of $1.3436 reached Nov. 16,
according to  Carl Forcheski , a director on the corporate
currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in New York, citing
the firm’s data.  ‘Further Losses’  “If we close on a low today, that’s not a good technical
sign for the near term and will leave the euro open to further
losses,” Forcheski said. Technical analysts study charts of
trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  The cost of insuring against losses on Portuguese
government bonds climbed for a third day as traders looked past
the bailout of Ireland to determine which country will be next
to require assistance.  Credit-default swaps tied to Portuguese debt rose 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to a one-week high of 430
basis points, according to UBS AG. The contracts, which reached
a record 478 basis points on Nov. 11, have widened about 100
basis points in the past month.  “Overnight there was a lot of excitement over developments
in Ireland,” said  Camilla Sutton , a Bank of Nova Scotia
currency strategist in Toronto. “A lot of that euphoria has
diminished.”  Ireland became the second euro country to seek a rescue as
the cost of saving its banks threatened a rerun of the Greek
debt crisis that destabilized the currency.  ‘Debt Burden’  The aid will “crystallize more bank-contingent liabilities
on the government balance sheet, and increase the Irish
sovereign’s debt burden,” Moody’s analyst  Dietmar Hornung  said
via e-mail today.  Increases in state debt “being discussed exceed the
expectation we had in October when we put Ireland’s Aa2 rating
on review for downgrade. A multi-notch downgrade” is “now the
most likely outcome,” Hornung wrote. The package may total as
much as 95 billion euros ($129 billion), further raising
Ireland’s debt, according to Moody’s.  Parliamentary support for Cowen evaporated today after the
Green Party, his junior coalition partners, called for a January
election and said he “misled’ voters over the past two weeks.  Canada’s dollar depreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0187 versus
the greenback as a drop in stocks reduced demand for assets
related to economic growth. The loonie earlier touched C$1.0122,
the strongest level in almost a week.  Drop in Stocks  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.2 percent. The  yield 
on the 10-year Treasury note dropped seven basis points to 2.80
percent. Crude oil for January delivery gained 0.1 percent to
$81.60 a barrel after earlier falling 1 percent.  New Zealand’s currency slid 0.9 percent to 77.20 U.S. cents
after Standard & Poor’s revised its outlook on the nation’s
credit rating to negative because of a weakening of banks. The
“AA+” long-term and “A-1+” short-term sovereign credit
ratings were affirmed.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor  Alan Bollard  said last
week that the nation is in danger of a “prolonged” struggle to
recover from the global recession because of diminished demand
for its goods from the U.S., U.K. and Japan.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index , which
measures the greenback’s performance against the currencies of
six major trading partners including the euro and yen, advanced
0.2 percent to 78.628.  The gauge of the U.S. currency has climbed as much as 5.1
percent from its low this year on Nov. 4 on speculation the
Federal Reserve’s plan to buy an additional $600 billion in
government debt is unlikely to debase the dollar as long as the
economy continues to strengthen.  “The dollar has found a bottom,” said  Lane Newman ,
director of foreign exchange in New York at ING Groep NV, the
largest Dutch financial-services company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  