-- Roger Federer and Andy Murray Start ATP Finals With Victories
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-21T22:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/federer-defeats-ferrer-murray-beats-soderling-in-atp-finals-first-matches.html
Roger Federer  and  Andy Murray 
started their group matches at tennis’s season-ending  ATP World
Tour Finals  with victories.  Federer defeated Spain’s  David Ferrer  for the eleventh
straight time, 6-1, 6-4. The Swiss winner of a men’s record 16
majors is trying to join Ivan Lendl and Pete Sampras as the only
players to have won the year-end championships five times.  “It was a really tough match,” Federer, the top seed in
Group B, said in a televised interview immediately after the
match at The O2 arena in east London. “It’s not fair for David,
one-and-half hours for that kind of scoreline shows how tough it
was. I’m happy I was able to come through.”  Federer, who is playing in the year-end event for a ninth
time, started broke the Spaniard’s serve in the second game of
the first set. It took Ferrer almost twenty minutes to get on
the scoreboard, breaking back in the fifth game. Watched by
 Diego Maradona , Argentina’s 1986 soccer World Cup-winning
captain, Federer took the first set as Ferrer hit a backhand
into the net. The Swiss righthander won the match with an ace.  Earlier in the day, Murray beat  Robin Soderling  of Sweden
6-2, 6-4 in the opening match of the event in front of a sell
out crowd of 17,500. The Scot will play Federer in his next
group match.  The tournament, won by Russia’s  Nikolay Davydenko  last
year, has a round-robin format, with the season’s eight best
players divided into two groups. Each will face the three others
in the group, with the top two in each section moving into the
knockout semifinals.  “Tactically it was a great match,” Murray told a news
conference. “I played very smart tennis today.”  Murray had attacked the French Open finalist’s 137-mile-
per-hour serves right from the start. Murray, who lost his No. 4
spot in the ATP rankings to Soderling after the Swede won the
 BNP Paribas Masters  in Paris last week, broke for a 2-1 lead
with a backhand return as the crowd cheered.  Murray, losing finalist to  Federer  in this year’s
Australian Open final, broke again for a 5-2 lead as Soderling
dumped a backhand into the net. The Scot then clinched the first
set with a drop-shot on the line.  In the second set, he continued to keep Soderling under
pressure with his returns of serve, breaking for a 4-3 lead on a
double fault. Murray completed victory on his second match point
as his opponent sent a return long, his 26th unforced error of
the match. Murray had 16 errors and 27 winners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the 02 arena through the London sports desk
at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  