-- India's Microfinance Clampdown May Trigger Failures, World Bank Aide Says
-- B y   Y o o l i m   L e e   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-22T17:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/india-s-smaller-micro-lenders-likely-to-fail-srinivasan-says.html
(Corrects to say Srinivasan consults for World Bank in
first paragraph.)  A quarter of Indian microfinance
companies may fail after a clampdown last month in their biggest
market pared debt payments and curtailed bank financing, said N.
Srinivasan, who consults for organizations including the  World
Bank  and the Asian Development Bank.  As many as 60 to 70 of the nation’s 260 microfinance
institutions are likely to collapse in coming months as  banks 
halt lending to them to curb risks, Srinivasan said in an
interview Nov. 19 in New Delhi. That would have a “devastating
effect” on the poorest borrowers in remote regions, he said.  Lending and collections by micro-lenders have ground to a
near halt in southern Andhra Pradesh state after the local
government introduced  new rules  in mid-October aimed at
protecting borrowers. A slump in microfinance loans may trigger
a chain reaction of defaults by borrowers with multiple debts,
Srinivasan said.  “Multiple loans help people manage money, like juggling
balls,” he said, adding that every poor household in Andhra
Pradesh has 9.6 microfinance-loan accounts on average. “What’s
happening is that right in the middle of it, you remove a ball.
Suddenly there is no ball to throw.”  Andhra Pradesh , the largest market for most micro-lenders,
on Oct. 15 capped interest rates that companies can charge and
ordered them to collect payments monthly rather than weekly. It
also barred them from using coercive measures to force borrowers
to repay debt.  Straining Capital  The move led to a slump in micro-lenders’ cash flows,
strained capital levels and spooked banks, which account for
most of their funding needs. Microfinance companies are seeking
10 billion rupees ($221 million) from banks for a liquidity
fund,  Vijay Mahajan , head of a lobbying group that represents
about 44 micro-lenders, said Nov. 16 in New Delhi.  The new rules sent shares of  SKS Microfinance Ltd. , the
largest such lender in the nation, plummeting 47 percent before
Chairman  Vikram Akula  said on Nov. 19 that the firm had received
bank funding and didn’t have a cash shortage. The comments
helped shares of SKS, more than a quarter of whose loans are in
Andhra Pradesh, rally 5.4 percent that day.  Rival Share Microfin Ltd., backed by New Zealand
billionaire  Christopher Chandler , plans to delay an initial
public offering until customers restart payments and state and
central governments deal with the current upheaval. Banks need
to regain confidence in the companies’ operations, M. Udaia
Kumar, its managing director, said in a Nov. 18 interview.  ‘Trickle-Down Effect’  “Even if a single MFI defaults, it might have a trickle-
down effect on the entire sector,” he said. “Institutions with
stronger net worth have a possibility of survival for a period
of time.”  Share Microfin, based in Andhra Pradesh’s capital of
Hyderabad, had planned to raise 10 billion rupees in early 2011.  Spandana Sphoorty Financial Ltd., India’s second-largest
microfinance company, will indefinitely postpone an initial
public offer after the clampdown in Andhra Pradesh nearly halted
loan payments and disbursals, said founder and Managing Director
Padmaja Reddy.  “I don’t think this is the time for us to go to the
market,” Reddy said in a telephone interview today. The state
accounts for 49 percent of Spandana’s outstanding loans.  Twelve micro-lenders, including SKS Microfinance and
Spandana, could see a debt downgrade, Crisil Ltd. said in a note
today. The fallout from Andhra Pradesh may permanently impair
lenders’ profitability and fund-raising, said Crisil, the Indian
arm of Standard & Poor’s.  Nobel Prize  Microfinance, which focuses on loans in poor areas largely
shut out from traditional banking services, gained prominence
globally when  Muhammad Yunus  won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2006
for his role in founding Bangladesh’s Grameen Bank. India, where
banking services are available in about 5 percent of cities and
towns, is the largest market for such credits.  India’s micro-lending has expanded at an average annual
rate of 62 percent over the past five years in terms of number
of customers, and 88 percent in terms of credit, according to
 Micro-Credit Ratings International Ltd. , a Gurgaon, India-based
rating company for the industry.  A shortage of microfinance funding may force borrowers to
turn to moneylenders, said  Dipak Gupta , executive director of
Mumbai-based Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. These unauthorized lenders
operate outside the formal credit-delivery system and charge
usurious interest rates.  ‘Back to the Moneylender’  “Money has stopped and a borrower is used to getting that
money and circulating it,” he said. “If you don’t create an
alternate system or don’t allow the system to rotate, he will go
back to the moneylender.”  SKS , whose stakeholders include  George Soros , has received
3.67 billion rupees from eight lenders including Axis Bank Ltd.
in the past two weeks, Chief Financial Officer  Dilli Raj  said on
Nov. 19 from Hyderabad, where the company is based.  Axis, India’s fourth-largest lender by market value, is
awaiting a report by a committee set up by the central bank last
month to review concerns about the microfinance industry, CFO
 Somnath Sengupta  said.  The report, due in January, “will be the guiding
principles for lending to the sector,” he said in an interview
on Nov. 19. “We will continue to be prudent. There is no reason
to panic.”  Axis ’s loans outstanding to microfinance companies account
for about 1 percent of the total, he said.  Still, the industry is bracing for consolidation, said
Mahajan, who is also chairman of Hyderabad-based microfinance
company  Basix Group .  “We could see casualties among small microfinance
institutions,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoolim Lee  in Singapore at 
 yoolim@bloomberg.net ;
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net  