-- Israeli Court Demotes Two Soldiers Who Used Gaza Strip Child as a Shield
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-11-21T15:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/israeli-court-demotes-two-soldiers-who-used-gaza-strip-child-as-a-shield.html
An Israeli military court demoted
two soldiers and gave them suspended sentences for forcing a 9-
year-old Palestinian boy in the Gaza Strip to open bags that
they suspected contained explosives.  The two infantry staff sergeants, who were not identified
by name, were found guilty Oct. 3 of “exceeding authority to
the point of endangering life and health” and “unsuitable
conduct.” They were both sentenced today to suspended terms of
three months and demoted to the rank of sergeant, according to
an army spokesman who spoke on condition of anonymity in line
with military regulations.  The incident occurred Jan. 15, 2009, toward the end of
Israel’s three-week military operation in Gaza that it said was
meant to stop Hamas and other militant Palestinian groups from
firing missiles into Israeli territory. A United Nations panel
led by South African judge  Richard Goldstone  accused Israel and
Hamas of committing war crimes during the Gaza conflict.  The two soldiers were searching a basement apartment with
20 people inside and ordered the boy to open two bags they
suspected of being booby-trapped, according to court papers.
When he couldn’t open the second bag, one of the soldiers fired
at it while the boy stood nearby, the court said. No explosives
were found.  “Under the laws of war, using civilians as human shields
is a war crime,” Bill Van Esveld, an Israel-based researcher
for Human Rights Watch, said in a phone interview. “It is hard
to see how a demotion and a short suspended sentence are
adequate to the gravity of that offense.”  Military Law  Israeli military law forbids soldiers from using civilians
to open bags suspected of containing explosives, the court said
in its ruling. “Even more so was it forbidden for them to use a
child to open the bag,” it said.  More than 1,100 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were killed in
the Gaza conflict. Gaza is run by Hamas, the Islamic movement
that is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S.
and the European Union. Hamas seized full control of Gaza in
2007, ending a power-sharing arrangement with the Fatah party of
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , after winning
parliamentary elections the previous year.  Israel, which rejected the findings of the Goldstone panel,
says its operations in Gaza were a defensive response to eight
years of rocket attacks from Hamas and other militant groups
that killed 24 Israelis. The army said at least 3,000 rockets
and mortars were fired into Israel from Gaza in 2008, with more
than 480 since the war ended with a cease-fire on Jan. 18, 2009.  Hamas’s charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish
state. The group’s leaders say they will renounce violence when
Israel withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 