-- Japan Yields Reach Two-Month High as Stocks Rise, Cabinet Approval Slumps
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-11-22T06:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/japan-s-government-bonds-may-fall-as-yen-weakens-after-ireland-s-bailout.html
Japanese  bonds  fell, pushing yields
to a two-month high, as a bailout of Ireland boosted stocks and
falling voter support clouded prospects for fiscal reform under
Prime Minister Naoto Kan.  Benchmark 10-year  bonds  retreated from the sharpest advance
in six weeks on Nov. 19 as a newspaper poll showed approval for
Kan’s Cabinet dropped by almost half. Bonds also fell as the
weakening yen boosted the earnings prospects for exporters and
as U.S. Treasuries declined before data forecast to show the
American economy expanded faster than previously estimated.  “The atmosphere is turning negative for Japanese bonds,”
said  Makoto Noji , a Tokyo-based strategist at Mizuho Securities
Research & Consulting Co. “The biggest reasons for the slump in
the bond market are the rise in stocks and the halt in the yen’s
appreciation.”  The  yield  on the 10-year bond climbed six basis points to
1.13 percent as of 3:20 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co.,
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1 percent
security due September 2020 fell 0.527 yen to 98.851 yen. The
yield increased to the highest level since Sept. 14.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery slid 0.53 to
141.23 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Approval Rating  The yen fell to as low as 114.85 per euro today, the
weakest since Nov. 5, amid speculation an agreement to rescue
Ireland’s banks will prevent contagion across the Europe’s debt
markets. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  advanced 0.9 percent as a
weaker yen helps make Japanese products cheaper and boosts the
value of overseas sales at the nation’s exporters.  Japan’s Justice Minister Minoru Yanagida resigned today for
making comments that disparaged his job. The approval rating for
Kan’s cabinet dropped by 23 points from last month to 26
percent, the Mainichi newspaper said. The survey was conducted
between Nov. 20 and 21.  “Once the prospects for a general election crop up,
political parties have no choice but to talk about spending
money,” said Mizuho’s Noji . “A collapse in Kan’s
administration would undoubtedly be a factor for more spending.
Considering that, we have to take account of the possibility
that 10-year yields will climb to 1.2 percent.”  Kan has said he wants to balance Japan’s budget by 2020 and
pledged not to exceed this fiscal year’s record sales of 44
trillion yen ($527 billion) in government bonds.  Japan’s 10-year yields may rise above 1.2 percent in the
year starting April on a global economic recovery,  Tatsushi Shikano , senior economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co., said in an interview. The last time the yields
reached that level was June 22.  Treasury 10-year yields increased two basis points to 2.89
percent today. The U.S. economy expanded at a 2.4 percent annual
rate in the third quarter, compared with the 2 percent increase
initially reported, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before tomorrow’s Commerce Department report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 