-- Japan's Justice Minister Yanagida Quits for Disparaging Job Before Voters
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   G o   O n o m i t s u
-- 2010-11-22T01:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/japanese-justice-minister-minoru-yanagida-decides-to-resign-nhk-says.html
Japan’s Justice Minister  Minoru Yanagida  resigned for disdaining his job in front of voters, the
latest blow to Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , whose approval rating
has tumbled by more than half in two months.  Yanagida’s departure may hamper Kan as he bids to get a 5.1
trillion yen ($61 billion) stimulus package through parliament.
Opposition parties were preparing a censure motion against the
minister in the upper house, delaying debate on a bill to fund
the increased spending.  “I told the prime minister I am resigning to ensure the
bill is passed quickly,” Yanagida, 56, said at a press
conference today in Tokyo. Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  will take on the justice portfolio, he said.  Yanagida came under pressure after telling constituents on
Nov. 14 that he only had to remember two phrases to do his job:
"I’d like to refrain from commenting on individual cases," and
"We’re responding to the case in accordance with the law." The
remarks were broadcast by Japanese television networks.  A poll published today by the Mainichi newspaper showed 71
percent of respondents were in favor of his resignation. Kan’s
approval rating plunged 23 points from last month to 26 percent,
the paper said. The telephone survey of 989 people was taken
Nov. 20-21 and provided no error margin. Kan was supported by 64
percent of respondents in a September poll after he fended off a
leadership challenge.  The stimulus-funding bill passed the more-powerful lower
house on Nov. 16 and will become law after 30 days regardless of
whether the upper house adds its approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Go Onomitsu in Tokyo at 
 gonomitsu@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 