-- Japan Deployment Near Disputed Isles May Worsen Frayed Chinese Relations
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2010-11-22T02:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/japan-to-deploy-military-forces-closer-to-disputed-islands-nikkei-reports.html
Japan may further damage already
frayed relations with China if it moves military forces closer
to a group of islets claimed by both nations, said  Jeff Kingston ,
director of Asian Studies at Temple University’s Tokyo campus.  The Defense Ministry will deploy as many as 100 personnel
to Yonaguni Island as early as April 2014, the  Nikkei newspaper 
reported yesterday without citing anyone. That would put troops
within 200 miles (330 kilometers) of where a Chinese trawler
collided with Japanese Coast Guard boats in September, near the
disputed isles known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China.  “This ups the ante,”  Kingston  said. “Deploying forces
closer to the scene of the action won’t be interpreted
positively in Beijing.”  China and Japan have yet to implement a 2008 agreement to
jointly develop undersea natural gas fields in waters near the
islands. Sovereignty over the rocky, uninhabited islets would
extend either nation’s territorial claim to undersea resources.
Japan’s Coast Guard on Nov. 20 warned two Chinese fishery patrol
ships not to enter territorial waters after spotting them near
one of the islands.  Japan may also deploy its military to Miyako and Ishigaki
islands, the Nikkei said. Ishigaki is about 100 miles south of
the islet group. Defense and foreign ministry officials weren’t
available for comment yesterday on the Nikkei report.  Dueling Protests  Tensions between Asia’s two largest economies heightened
after a Chinese fishing trawler and Japanese Coast Guard boats
collided near the islands on Sept. 7. China cut off ministerial
talks after Japan detained the captain of the fishing boat for
17 days. The clash also reportedly prompted Beijing to cut off
exports of rare earth minerals used in the manufacture of hybrid
car batteries and wind turbines.  As many as 3,000 flag-waving Japanese demonstrators marched
through Tokyo on Oct. 16 to protest China’s handling of the
collision, with former air force chief  Toshio Tamogami  leading
the procession to the Chinese embassy. The gathering in Japan
was matched by a rival protest in Chengdu, Sichuan Province,
where a similar number of Chinese chanted slogans such as
“fight Japan,” state-run Xinhua news service reported.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  reiterated his country’s
“firm” stance on the disputed islands during a meeting with
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  at the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit in Yokohama on Nov. 13, while also calling
for “mutually beneficial” ties.  ‘Out of Control’  “Lessening of tensions didn’t happen in Yokohama,”
Temple’s Kingston said. “Both sides have contributed to the
escalation of this incident. It could have been handled and
contained, but now it’s spinning out of control.”  China earlier this month rebuffed U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton ’s offer to mediate the dispute, rejecting her
contention that the area falls under the U.S. security blanket.  “The Diaoyu islands are Chinese territory, and the dispute
over the islands with Japan is a matter between China and
Japan,” Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman  Ma Zhaoxu  said in
a statement.  The spat with Japan “has regional implications,” Temple’s
Kingston said. “Other countries have similar disputes with
China.”  China has rejected calls by the U.S., Japan and Southeast
Asian nations to agree on binding rules for encounters in
disputed waters.  Rocky outcrops in the South China Sea that may contain oil
and gas reserves are claimed in whole or in part by China,
Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan. China has
declined regional talks on these claims, seeking to restrict
territorial disputes to one-on-one negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  