-- New Zealand Mine Officials Say Rescue `Hopes Fade` as Robot Breaks Down
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-23T07:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/n-z-rescuers-wait-to-enter-mine-air-tests-are-inconclusive-after-blast.html
The blast that ripped through New
Zealand’s Pike River Coal Co. mine last week lasted more than 50
seconds, officials said as they warned that chances of finding
the 29 men missing underground are fading.  “The situation is bleak, it is grave,” Police
Superintendent Gary Knowles said at a news conference today as
reporters were shown a video of smoke and dust being expelled
from the main tunnel following the Nov. 19 explosion. “We
continue to plan for a rescue, however we are aware that the
likelihood of that is diminishing.”  No contact has been made with the men, who range in age
from 17 to 62, since the blast at the site near Greymouth on the
nation’s South Island. A 65-member rescue team is waiting for
poisonous and combustible gases to clear before beginning its
search for survivors, while efforts to drill a bore hole into a
tunnel 162 meters (532 feet) below the surface has stalled in
hard rock about 15 meters short of target, officials said.  A defense-force robot sent into the mine to capture images
and sample gases broke down early today and a second remote
device has been delivered to the mine, police said.  Pike River Chief Executive Officer  Peter Whittall  said the
mine entrance is at least 2.5 kilometers from the likely source
of the explosion.  “The length of time and violence that we show and also the
fact the blast had split and some went up the ventilation shaft
shows it was quite a significant event indeed,” he said. Some
family members hadn’t wanted to see it and the effect on those
that did was “sobering,” he said.  Chilean Rescue  The effort has prompted comparisons with the October rescue
of 33 miners in Chile, brought to the surface after being
trapped in a shaft more than 600 meters below the Atacama desert
for 70 days. More than 1 billion people watched live on
television networks around the world, Chile’s TVN reported, as
the 33 were each lifted to safety in a four-meter long capsule
in the world’s longest mine rescue.  New Zealand’s Economic Development Minister  Gerry Brownlee 
said the relatives are going through a mix of emotions.  “They range from complete despair to complete optimism,”
he said in an interview from Greymouth. “Everyone deals with
these things in their own way and the reality is that until
there is a decision about entering the mine, or they go in to
the mine and have a good look around, there’s every reason for
that optimism.”  In Greymouth town center, Air Force helicopters pass
overhead and hotels and other accommodation are filled with
media, affected families and support workers.  Yellow Ribbons  “Our thoughts are with you all,” reads a sign in the
window of the local branch of ANZ National Bank Ltd. Children
have tied yellow ribbons on poles near their school entrance.  The town’s History House museum charts previous mining
tragedies that have affected the local community, including an
explosion at the Strongman coal mine that caused 19 deaths in
1967. In a reference to a fire at the Blackball mine in 1917,
the photo caption notes “spontaneous combustion was an ever
present source of anxiety.”  “Every miner is a safety man, that’s what makes them a
good miner,” said Bob Naisbit, 64, a retired miner who joined
the museum after injuries from rock falls and other accidents
during his 30-year career forced him to retire early.  At Risk  Officials have refused to put the lives of the trapped men
and their rescuers at risk until they have evidence that there
won’t be a second explosion  “If there is a fire burning, there’s a source of
ignition,” Pike River Chairman John Dow told Television New
Zealand today. “If there is a source of ignition and methane,
that’s what causes a secondary explosion.”  Greymouth Mayor Tony Kokshoorn said while the families
understand the risks, they are also getting desperate.  “There’s got to be a point where we give it a go,” he
told Television New Zealand. “For the families sake we just
need some good news. We need some eyes inside the tunnel.”  Pike River began construction of the mine in September 2006
and exported its first coal in February, a year late after
problems with equipment and a rock fall in a ventilation shaft
in February 2009. The company went to investors for an extra
NZ$41 million ($32 million) in March last year and NZ$50 million
in April this year.  ‘Tough Questions’  Prime Minister  John Key , who has visited the mine, told
reporters in Greymouth yesterday he expects there will be a
“series of inquiries” into the cause of the blast. “We will
need to ask ourselves some tough questions,” he said.  Pike River  is part-owned by India’s  Gujarat NRE Coke Ltd. 
and Saurashtra Fuels Pvt.  New Zealand Oil & Gas Ltd.  is the
biggest investor with a 30 percent stake.  The mine was forecast to produce 320,000 to 360,000 metric
tons of coal in the year through June, the company said Oct. 19.
That almost halved an April forecast because of delays with
drilling equipment and road construction.  Pike River  shares  slumped 14 percent to 61 Australian cents
in Sydney Nov. 19 before trading was halted, and fell 4.4
percent to 88 New Zealand cents by the Wellington close that day.
The stock was suspended on both stock exchanges yesterday.  New Zealand Oil & Gas fell 28 percent to 87 New Zealand
cents as at the 5 p.m. market close in Wellington trading after
the company lifted a trading halt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Greymouth at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Johnson at 
 Ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  