-- Obamacare Repeal Move’s Real Aim Is Retiring Obama: Albert Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2010-11-21T16:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/obamacare-repeal-move-s-real-aim-is-retiring-obama-albert-hunt.html
Republicans won a smashing victory
in this month’s U.S. national elections; no issue resonated more
with the party’s base than President Barack Obama’s health-care
legislation.  The House Republicans’ “Pledge to America” vowed “to
repeal and replace the government takeover of health care with
common sense solutions focused on lowering costs and protecting
American jobs.”  The party won more than five dozen seats, the
most in seven decades.  There is no chance this pledge will be achieved.  While Republicans have a big majority in the House,
Democratic control of the Senate and the presidential veto power
make repeal or major change impossible.  There is another reason.  More than a few Republicans know that while the politics of
trying to nitpick provisions and curb funding are appealing, any
wholesale repeal of major provisions of the health-care overhaul
would likely generate a backlash.  Even the Republican-leaning electorate on Nov. 2 was evenly
split on repealing Obamacare, the exit polls showed. And many of
the major provisions of the bill command broad support or could
expose critics and repeal advocates to embarrassing
contradictions.  One such provision is the enhanced Medicare prescription-
drug benefit. It was in 2003, under President  George W. Bush ,
that Medicare was expanded to cover drugs -- a measure backed by
most congressional Republicans, who chose not to pay for these
new benefits.  Donut Hole  The Obama health-care bill expands and funds this coverage
to cover a gap in payouts, or close the so-called donut hole.
Under this provision, senior citizens currently affected by the
gap next year will get, on average, an additional $553 of
benefits.  Seniors voted 58 percent to 39 percent for Republican
candidates in the midterm elections. Whatever the merits,
there’s little clamor within the party to reopen the donut hole.  Medicare poses a larger quandary. A central critique of the
Democrats’ health-care bill was that it would cut back on that
program.  The Senate Republican leader,  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky ,
accused Democrats of trying to “raid” Medicare. The Republican
political group, Crossroads GPS, funded by anonymous
contributors, ran attack ads against Pennsylvania’s Democratic
Senate candidate,  Joe Sestak , charging he “voted to gut
Medicare -- a $500 billion cut.”  Checks and Balances  Representative Sestak, who lost a close Senate race,
supported the health-care overhaul, which seeks to temper the
explosion of health-care costs through greater efficiencies and
checks and balances. Whether effective or not, it’s not a half-
trillion-dollar cut in Medicare benefits.  Yet when it comes to reducing federal spending and budget
deficits, a Republican priority, there’s no more important
target than health-care spending in general, and Medicare in
particular. The proposal by Republican Congressman  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin  to turn Medicare into a voucher system is designed to
hold down costs. The catalyst for the 1995 government shutdown
was the Republicans’ attempt to foist deep  Medicare cutbacks on
President  Bill Clinton ; it was a political disaster for them.  The reaction to the recent proposal by  Erskine Bowles  and
 Alan Simpson , the co-chairmen of Obama’s deficit-reduction
commission, was instructive. They offered a plan that would take
the deficit down to 2.2 percent of gross domestic product in
2015, from 9 percent today.  Tax Increases  It includes almost $100 billion of tax increases that year,
which leading congressional Republicans say is unacceptable,
though they embrace the objective. To achieve such a goal
without new revenue almost certainly would require slashing
health-care spending.  The other principal Republican objection to the health-care
bill is the individual mandate requiring Americans to buy health
insurance or pay a penalty. That has been denounced by critics
as bad policy. Some have even charged it is unconstitutional, or
as Republican South Carolina Senator  Jim DeMint  put it,
“inconsistent” with “the freedoms our Founding Fathers hoped
to protect.”  Simultaneously, many critics say that one provision they
would keep is the bill’s ban on denying health-insurance
coverage because of pre-existing conditions. That can be done,
Ryan and others say, by expanding high-risk pools in states to
cover those people, disproportionately those with disabilities.  High-Risk Pools  Except it never works that way. These high-risk pools
aren’t adequately funded, there are cumbersome regulations to
join them and, with fiscal situations tight in the years ahead,
it’s a safe bet that those with the most clout won’t be people
with disabilities.  To be sure, there are problems that could lend themselves
to a bipartisan fix. Small businesses complain of too much red
tape, some of which can be alleviated. Some Democrats even want
to allow states to opt out of the individual mandate, though
that would create enormous complications.  Still, many of the horror stories that critics contend the
bill already has produced, upon closer examination, are
distorted or simply wrong. When several Catholic hospitals in
Scranton,  Pennsylvania , announced earlier this year that they
were closing, Republicans immediately charged it was due to the
onerousness of Obamacare. It sounded persuasive, until the
director said the hospitals had been in economic trouble for two
decades, and the health-care bill had little to do with the
closures.  Industry Support  Almost none of the stakeholders who supported the health-
care bill -- hospital associations, drug companies, some
physicians groups and even many insurers -- favor repeal.  What some would like is to gut a provision that establishes
an Independent Payment Advisory Board, which would be charged
with curbing  spiraling costs  in the future. Everybody is for
“bending the cost curve” of the most expensive health-care
system in the world until it comes to actually cutting costs.
That transcends party and philosophy.  Most of the health-care moves in the 112th Congress will be
more games and pandering to a hardcore base; charges of
socialism will reverberate, just as they did when Medicare was
enacted in 1965. Never mind that under Obamacare there is less
government involvement in the health-care system than in most
countries.  The Republicans’ real agenda is to continue the drumbeat of
criticism until Obama is defeated in 2012 or, what many
privately say is a more realistic hope, a Republican-dominated
 Supreme Court  rejects the measure.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 