-- Hong Kong Property Sales Slide 83% as Higher Tax Deters Weekend Homebuyers
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-11-22T08:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/hong-kong-property-sales-slide-83-as-higher-tax-deters-weekend-homebuyers.html
William Yue was ready last week to
pay about HK$11 million ($1.4 million) for an apartment in Hong
Kong’s Kowloon Tong district. Now, he’s reconsidering.  Financial Secretary John Tsang on Nov. 19 raised stamp
duties and deposit requirements, and limited mortgage insurance,
the toughest measures yet to rein in home values that soared 50
percent since January 2009. Li Ka-shing’s  Cheung Kong (Holdings)
Ltd.  fell the most in six months, and  Midland Holdings Ltd. , the
city’s largest realtor, plunged the most in a decade.  “The down payment we need to pay would probably be a bit
out of our budget,” the 58-year-old Yue said yesterday. “We
need to negotiate with the seller again and see if he’d bring
down the price. Imposing the extra stamp duty should’ve been
enough to curb speculation. All it does is hurt real users like
us.”  Weekend sales of used homes fell 83 percent from the
previous week, according to data from  Centaline Property Agency
Ltd.  The changes mean homes sold within six months of purchase
incur a 15 percent stamp duty, while down payments will rise to
50 percent for properties costing HK$12 million or more, and to
40 percent for those between HK$8 million and HK$12 million.  “The measures will likely have the biggest and most
lasting impact on property prices seen to date,”  Donna Kwok , a
Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a report.
“Hong Kong has jumped onto the bandwagon of Asian central banks
and is erecting its own defenses to fend off the flood” of
capital from the U.S. easing, she said.  Hong Kong’s currency peg to the dollar prevents its de-
facto central bank from raising interest rates to deter
speculation. South Korea revived a tax on foreigners investing
in its bonds last week, while Brazil tripled a tax on purchases
of local fixed-income assets by overseas investors.  Stocks Fall  The  Hang Seng Property Index , which tracks the city’s
seven-biggest builders, fell 2.6 percent at the 4 p.m. local
time close of trading. It has declined 10 percent since this
year’s peak on Nov. 8.  Cheung Kong, the city’s second-biggest developer by market
value, lost 3.2 percent, while  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , the
largest, slid 3.1 percent. Midland tumbled 17 percent.  “This is a strong dose to calm down the housing market,”
JPMorgan & Chase Co. analysts led by  Lucia Kwong  wrote in a
report dated yesterday. “Given the new measures, we expect
slower property sales that drive down” the net asset value of
developers.  The number of transactions at some of Hong Kong’s biggest
private housing estates fell to 10 on Nov. 20 and 21, Centaline,
the city’s biggest privately held real-estate broker, said in a
statement yesterday. There were 59 deals the previous weekend.  “We’re expecting transactions to drop between 10 and 20
percent for this quarter and prices will probably go down by
about 5 percent at least,” said  Wong Leung-sing , associate
director of research at Centaline.  Housing Estates  The broker had only one transaction on Nov. 20 at the
12,700-unit Tai Koo Shing housing estate on Hong Kong Island,
from six the previous week, District Manager Kenneth Chiu said
yesterday.  “Most of the buyers we’ve been speaking to said they
expect prices to drop further so they’ll hold off from making a
decision for now,” Chiu said. “On the other hand, sellers on
average are willing to bring down asking prices.”  The city’s home prices may drop 5 percent by year-end while
transactions may fall 40 percent because of the measures, Credit
Suisse Group AG analysts  Cusson Leung  and  Joyce Kwock  wrote in a
report today. JPMorgan also predicted a 5 percent decline in
prices.  Transactions to Fall  Prices in some of Hong Kong’s most expensive districts,
such as Kowloon Tong on the Kowloon peninsula bordering China,
surged 52 percent since the beginning of 2009, according to an
index compiled by Centaline. Those gains prompted the
International Monetary Fund to warn last week that asset
inflation may derail the city’s economy.  The measures will drag on home price gains rather than
reverse the gains, UBS AG said in a report. Property
transactions will fall by 20 percent to 30 percent, analyst  Eric Wong  said, adding that the measures may drive liquidity into
other assets such as stocks.  Under the new measures, properties resold within 6 months
to 12 months will incur a 10 percent stamp duty, while those
resold between 12 months and 24 months will be charged 5 percent,
Tsang said. The levy will be split between buyers and sellers.  Down payments for homes costing HK$12 million or more will
be increased from 40 percent and for those between HK$8 million
and HK$12 million from 30 percent, Hong Kong Monetary Authority
Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said Nov. 19. The maximum loan to
value for non owner-occupied residential properties will be
lowered to 50 percent, Chan said.  More Curbs  It was the second time the government raised down-payment
requirements this year. On Aug. 13 it increased them for
apartments costing HK$12 million or more and for investment
properties to 40 percent, from 30 percent.  Hong Kong Mortgage Corp., a government-backed home-loan
insurer, capped at HK$6.8 million the value of a property that
can be covered by mortgage insurance, it said Nov. 19.  Hong Kong this year has also stopped offering residency to
foreigners who buy property in the city and pledged to increase
land supply to curb prices, which surpassed a 1997 peak on the
back of record-low mortgage rates and an influx of buyers from
China.  The government “will closely monitor the market” and may
introduce further measures if the latest curbs don’t stem
property prices, Tsang wrote yesterday on his blog on the
government’s website. The U.S. bond purchase program announced
earlier this month has heightened the asset bubble risk in Hong
Kong and it’s necessary for the government to adopt “pre-
emptive” measures, Tsang wrote.  ‘Extra Careful’  “We have to be extra careful,” said Chow Suet-kuen, a
retired civil servant who is looking to buy an investment
apartment, a day after the government’s measures. “We’re not
speculators, but the extra stamp duties may force us to hold
onto the properties longer. We’ll probably wait a bit to see how
the market reacts.”  Chow, who was at the Hung Hom district sales office for
 Cheung Kong’s  Festival City Phase II project in Sha Tin district,
said her family was a long-term investor and owned three other
investment properties in the Kowloon area.  The developer started selling 335 units at Festival City
Phase II late on Nov. 19.  Still, Fred Leung, a 40-year-old businessman looking to buy
an apartment to live in at Festival City, said the stamp duty
wouldn’t affect him, though he may put off purchasing.  “I can see how the stamp duties would impact speculators,
but that doesn’t really concern me,” said Leung a day after
Tsang announced the measures. “I’m not sure if I’m going to
make a decision now since I actually hope the developer will
lower prices for the later units.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.netoomberg.net  