-- Hong Kong Property Sales Slide 83% as Higher Tax Deters Weekend Homebuyers
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-11-21T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/hong-kong-s-latest-crackdown-on-property-prices-deters-buyers.html
Businessman William Yue was close to
buying an apartment worth about HK$11 million ($1.4 million) in
Hong Kong’s Kowloon Tong district. He may not be able to afford
that after the government imposed additional taxes and raised
down-payments to curb prices that have surged to a 13-year high.  Financial Secretary  John Tsang  on Nov. 19 announced some of
the toughest measures yet in a yearlong battle to rein in home
values that  soared  more than 50 percent since the beginning of
2009, sparking outcries that housing was becoming unaffordable
and prompting the International Monetary Fund to warn last week
that asset inflation may derail the city’s  economy .  “The down payment we need to pay would probably be a bit
out of our budget,” 58-year-old Yue said yesterday. “Imposing
the extra stamp duty should’ve been enough to curb speculation.
All this does is hurt real users like us.”  Weekend sales of used homes fell 83 percent from the
previous week, according to data from  Centaline Property Agency
Ltd.  Homes sold within six months of purchase incur a 15 percent
stamp duty from Nov. 20, and down payments will rise to 50
percent for properties costing HK$12 million or more, and to 40
percent for those between HK$8 million and HK$12 million.  “The measures will likely have the biggest and most
lasting impact on property prices seen to date,”  Donna Kwok , a
Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a report.
“Hong Kong has jumped onto the bandwagon of Asian central banks
and is erecting its own defenses to fend off the flood” of
capital from the U.S. easing.  Hong Kong’s currency peg to the dollar prevents its de-
facto central bank from raising interest rates. South Korea
revived a tax on foreigners investing in its bonds last week,
while Brazil tripled a tax on purchases of local fixed-income
assets by overseas investors.  Transactions Plunge  The  Hang Seng Property Index , which tracks the city’s
seven-biggest builders, fell for the eighth day in nine Nov. 19,
losing 1.3 percent to the  lowest  since Oct. 29. It has declined
7.6 percent since this year’s peak on Nov. 8.  “Property stocks will probably fall, but I don’t think the
declines will be too severe, as there is still ample liquidity
in the stock market,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer
at brokerage KGI Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong.  The number of transactions at some of Hong Kong’s biggest
private housing estates fell to 10 on Nov. 20 and 21, Centaline,
the city’s biggest privately held real-estate broker, said in a
statement yesterday. There were 59 deals the previous weekend.  “We’re expecting transactions to drop between 10 and 20
percent for this quarter and prices will probably go down by
about 5 percent at least,” said  Wong Leung-sing , associate
director of research at Centaline.  Housing Estates  Centaline had only one transaction on Nov. 20 at the
12,700-unit Tai Koo Shing housing estate on Hong Kong Island,
from six the previous week, District Manager Kenneth Chiu said
yesterday. The number of appointments for viewings at the estate
used by real-estate agents as a barometer of sentiment dropped
by about 30 percent from last week, Chiu said.  There were no transactions on Nov. 20 in Mei Foo Sun Chuen,
a 99-tower private housing estate in Kowloon, from eight the
previous week, said District Manager Elvia Chan.  “Most of the buyers we’ve been speaking to said they
expect prices to drop further so they’ll hold off from making a
decision for now,” Chiu said. “On the other hand, sellers on
average are willing to bring down asking prices by about 2 to 5
percent.”  Home prices surged 52 percent since the beginning of 2009,
according to an index compiled by Centaline.  Stamp Duties, Down Payments  Properties resold within 6 months to 12 months will incur a
10 percent stamp duty, while those resold from 12 months to 24
months will be charged 5 percent, Tsang said. The levy will be
split between buyers and sellers, he said.  Down payments for homes costing HK$12 million or more will
be increased from 40 percent and for those between HK$8 million
and HK$12 million from 30 percent, Hong Kong Monetary Authority
Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said Nov. 19. The maximum loan to
value for non owner-occupied residential properties will be
lowered to 50 percent, Chan said.  “The unusual surge in flat prices has attracted
speculators; this coupled with quantitative easing measures have
distorted the market expectation regarding inflation and asset
prices,” Tsang said. “The government is resolute in
maintaining economic stability and curbing any threat to
people’s livelihoods.”  It was the second time the government raised down-payment
requirements this year. On Aug. 13 it increased them for
apartments costing HK$12 million or more and for investment
properties to 40 percent, from 30 percent.  ‘Extra Careful’  Policy makers in Singapore share Tsang’s concern that
housing price gains may make homes unaffordable to locals. In
August, Singapore tightened mortgages and levied a stamp duty on
all sales of residential units and land within three years of
the purchase date.  Hong Kong house prices grew at the third-fastest pace in
Asia in the second quarter from a year earlier, behind Singapore
and China, according to research by London-based real-estate
consultant Knight Frank LLP.  “We have to be extra careful,” said Chow Suet-kuen, a
retired civil servant who is looking to buy an investment
apartment, a day after the government’s measures. “We’re not
speculators, but the extra stamp duties may force us to hold
onto the properties longer and the new mortgage rules may mean
we have to pay more for the down payment. We’ll probably wait a
bit to see how the market reacts before making a decision.”  Chow, who was with her husband, son and daughter-in-law at
the Hung Hom district sales office for  Cheung Kong (Holdings)
Ltd.’s  Festival City Phase II project in Sha Tin district, said
her family was a long-term investor and owned three other
investment properties in the Kowloon area.  Deterring Speculators  Cheung Kong, the city’s second-biggest developer by market
value, started selling 335 units at Festival City Phase II late
on Nov. 19. Cooling measures have come “late,” said  Justin Chiu , executive director at Cheung Kong, controlled by Hong
Kong’s richest man  Li Ka-shing . The measures target short-term
speculation, which accounted for less than 5 percent of total
home sales, Chiu said Nov. 20.  Hong Kong Mortgage Corp., a government-backed home-loan
insurer, will introduce a cap of HK$6.8 million on the value of
properties it covers, it said in a statement Nov. 19.  The measures are “definitely going to be effective
deterring speculators, but may also hurt users as well,” said
Buggle Lau, chief analyst at  Midland Holdings Ltd. , Hong Kong’s
biggest publicly traded real-estate agency. “We expect
transactions in November will drop by as much as a third and
prices will very likely stay flat.”  IMF Warning  With abundant liquidity in the market, unless the owners
are really in need of cash they won’t sell their apartments at a
discount in a hurry, said Lau.  The IMF said in a report this week Hong Kong’s accelerating
asset  inflation  risks causing a bust that leads to deflation and
an extended economic “downturn,” and urged further measures to
rein in prices.  The government this year also has stopped offering
residency to foreigners who buy property in the city and pledged
to increase land supply to curb prices, which surpassed a 1997
peak on the back of record-low mortgage rates and an influx of
buyers from China.  In April, Hong Kong raised the tax on homes selling for
more than HK$20 million to 4.25 percent from 3.75 percent.  Still, Fred Leung, a 40-year-old businessman looking to buy
an apartment to live in at Festival City, said the stamp duty
wouldn’t affect him, though he may put off purchasing.  “I can see how the stamp duties would impact speculators,
but that doesn’t really concern me,” said Leung a day after
Tsang announced the measures. “I’m not sure if I’m going to
make a decision now since I actually hope the developer will
lower prices for the later units after the government launched
the measures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.netoomberg.net  