-- Riskiest Bonds Prove Haven as Fed Seeks Faster Inflation: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2010-11-22T17:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/riskiest-bonds-prove-haven-as-fed-seeks-faster-inflation-credit-markets.html
The riskiest junk bonds are
providing a refuge for investors concerned that inflation will
accelerate as the Federal Reserve attempts to bolster the
economy.  Debt issues from  iStar Financial Inc. , the commercial real-
estate lender, and Atlanta-based credit-card processor  First
Data Corp.  are leading returns of 0.22 percent this month for
bonds rated CCC and lower, while higher-ranked BB tier debt is
down 0.76 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. Investment-grade debt losses average 1.15 percent.  The lowest-tier notes offer yields of about 11.5 percent,
compared with 6.4 percent for BB bonds, providing a buffer in
case consumer prices rise at a faster pace as the Fed prints
money to buy $600 billion of Treasuries. When inflation
accelerated in 2006, returns on the CCC bonds were 18.6 percent,
almost double the 9.9 percent gain for BB debt and 4.64 percent
for high-grade securities.  “The wider the spread the more cushion you have” against
rising consumer prices eating into interest payments, said  James Serhant , senior vice president and head of high-yield fixed
income at Hartford Investment Management Co. in Hartford,
Connecticut, who oversees the $448.6 million  Hartford High Yield
Fund .  Holding Value  Issuance of the lowest-rated debt is accelerating, with $8
billion of CCC or lower bond offerings in November, following
$9.7 billion in October, the most since the credit crisis began
in 2007, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Sales this year of
$45.8 billion of the debt are surpassed only by the record $52
billion issued in 2007, JPMorgan analysts led by  Peter Acciavatti  in New York wrote in a report dated Nov. 19.  Concern that inflation may quicken is also arising in the
market for government-backed mortgage bonds, leading buyers to
seek securities filled with loans with higher rates, Barclays
Capital index data show.  Elsewhere in credit markets, yields on company debt from
the U.S. to Europe and Asia narrowed 2 basis points relative to
government bonds last week to 165 basis points, or 1.65
percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Spreads are up 1 basis
point this month. Yields last week rose to an average 3.67
percent from 3.58 percent.  The cost of protecting bonds from default in the U.S.
climbed from the lowest level in two weeks after plans to bail
out Ireland’s banks failed to assuage concern the European debt
crisis may spread.  Default Swaps Rise  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 2.6 basis points to a
mid-price of 92.3 basis points as of 12:40 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Ireland is the second European Union member to seek a
financial rescue this year. Moody’s Investors Service said it
may lower the country’s credit rating by more than it previously
anticipated and investors continued to speculate that Portugal
and Spain may need to tap an emergency program set up by euro-
zone nations and the International Monetary fund. The cost of
buying default protection on Portugal’s bonds increased.  The Markit index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, ended Nov. 19
at 89.8 basis points.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Potash Bonds  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , the world’s largest
fertilizer company, plans to sell debt in a two-part benchmark
offering as soon as today, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  Proceeds may be used to buy back up to $2 billion of the
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company’s shares, it said in a
filing today with the Securities and Exchange Commission that
didn’t specify the size or timing of the offering. Benchmark
transactions are typically at least $500 million.  The least creditworthy borrowers are attracting yield-
starved investors as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  seeks to
reduce unemployment, at 9.6 percent last month, and avert
deflation by keeping interest rates at record lows. The U.S.
central bank has maintained its benchmark rate in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 following the worst
financial credit crisis since the Great Depression.  Consumer Prices  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent in October
after a 0.1 percent rise the prior month, the Labor Department
said Nov. 17 in Washington. Excluding food and fuel, so-called
core costs increased 0.6 percent from October 2009, the smallest
gain on record.  Fed officials don’t seek inflation higher than the level of
“2 percent or a bit less” that most policy makers see as
consistent with the bank’s legislative mandate, Bernanke said in
Frankfurt on Nov. 19. Inflation has slowed since the most recent
recession began in December 2007, and “further disinflation
could hinder the recovery,” he said.  Bonds paying about 10 percent will hold their value better
than those paying 6 percent, said  James Lee , a fixed-income
analyst at Calvert Asset Management in Bethesda, Maryland.  “The question is, ‘Are you getting compensated enough for
CCC risk?’” said Lee. “The answer is ‘Probably.’ They’re
probably fully valued.”  iStar, First Data  Bonds from New York-based iStar have returned 6 percent
this month, while debt from First Data, acquired by KKR & Co.
three years ago, has gained 5.23 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s US High Yield, CCC and Lower Rated
Index.  A return of 1.2 percent from Plano, Texas-based  J.C. Penney
Co. , the third-largest U.S. department-store company, led the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch US High Yield, BB Rated Index.  The lower-rated index gained 3.54 percent in October,
compared with 2.04 percent for the BB bonds, following CCC
returns of 3.8 percent in September, versus 2.74 percent.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Concern that lower-coupon government-backed mortgage
securities will remain outstanding for longer as borrowing costs
rise is among “the most likely culprits” responsible for a
jump in volatility in that market, Citigroup Inc. analysts  Brad Henis  and  Inger Daniels  in New York wrote in a Nov. 19 report.  Refinancing Risk  Higher rates reduce refinancing among the underlying
mortgages, creating so-called extension in the lives of the
bonds that means holders must wait longer to get their principal
back as new investments offer higher yields. Lower-coupon debt
is now more sensitive to the dynamic because refinancing and
defaults by borrowers with higher-rate loans will be less
affected by higher new-mortgage costs.  Agency mortgage bonds with 3.5 percent coupons, with
estimated durations as of Nov. 18 of 4.73 years, underperformed
similar Treasuries by 21 basis points this month through that
date, Barclays data show. Securities with 5.5 percent coupons
and 2.97-year durations outperformed by 65 basis points.
Duration is a measure of the securities’ price sensitivity to
yield changes.  The lowest-rated corporate borrowers are using bond
offerings mostly to refinance debt, according to the JPMorgan
report. Of this year’s $46 billion of CCC issuance, 69 percent
was for refinancing, compared with 9 percent of the $52 billion
sold in 2007.  Defaults have declined as companies gained access to
cheaper debt. The 12-month trailing default rate on U.S.
speculative-grade corporate bonds declined for an 11th straight
month in October, to 3.37 percent from 3.96 percent in
September, S&P analyst  Diane Vazza  wrote in a Nov. 19 report.  The lowest-rated bonds typically have shorter durations.
Notes ranked CCC and lower have durations averaging 3.35 years,
compared with 4.89 years for BB notes, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show.  “You’re exposed to greater price risk as interest rates
rise” with the longer-duration debt, said  Edward Mally ,
director of fixed income research at Imperial Capital LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Abramowicz  in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein in New York at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  