-- `Intrusive' Physical Checks at U.S. Airports Will Continue, TSA Chief Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   J u l i a n n   N e h e r
-- 2010-11-21T16:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/tsa-chief-says-physical-checks-at-u-s-airports-will-continue.html
New rules requiring “intrusive”
pat-downs of some passengers at U.S. airport security
checkpoints will remain in place, the head of the U.S.
 Transportation Security Administration  said today.  “We’re not changing the policies,” TSA Administrator  John Pistole  said on the CNN’s “State of the Union” program.
“Clearly it’s intrusive. It’s not comfortable. It really comes
down to what is that balance between privacy and security.”  Under the new security rules, passengers who refuse full-
body scans or who set off alarms during those procedures are
required to undergo thorough pat-downs by security personnel.  Representative  John Mica , a Florida Republican, said the
complaints about the physical searches were “the tip of the
iceberg of problems with the TSA.”  “I don’t think the roll-out was good and the approach was
even worse,” Mica said on CNN. “This does need to be
refined.”  Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal , a Republican, said the
pat-downs were both intrusive and ineffective.  “They’re not using common sense, they’re not using
intelligence,” Jindal said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program.
“There’s no reason for them to be doing these body searches of
six-year-old, 12-year-old girls traveling from Louisiana to
visit their grandparents.”  House Democratic Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer  said Congress
will hold hearings on whether the security body searches are
appropriate.  ‘Very Controversial’  “I think the pat-downs are going to be very
controversial,” Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat, said on CBS’s
“Face the Nation” program. “I don’t think any of us would
want to undergo that. But most people understand we’ve got to
keep airplanes safe.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” that security experts should “keep trying to get it
better and less intrusive and more precise.”  Pistole said the policies will stay in place while security
officials are “trying to be informed by the latest
intelligence.”  Mica, who will become chairman in January of the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, renewed his call to
consider privatizing airport security. Mica said a pilot program
at five airports that have used private screeners for two years
showed his idea has merit.  “The results that came back convinced me that private
screeners can perform statistically better.” He said.  The TSA has grown to 67,000 employees, Mica said.  “I’ve got a heck of a big overhead and I’m not getting the
results,” he said of the agency.  Pistole ordered the more-thorough checkpoint procedures
nationwide this month. He said they are necessary to ensure that
all passengers are screened and to avoid an attack such as the
Christmas attempt last year. A Nigerian man with explosives
hidden in his underpants tried to blow up a jet as it landed in
Detroit.  Clinton, when asked by CBS if she would submit to a
security pat-down, said “Not if I could avoid it. I mean, who
would?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Lerman  at   dlerman1@bloomberg.net 
 Juliann Neher  in Washington at 
 jneher1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  