-- Skymark to Deploy A380s in Tokyo-London Business-Fare Price War
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2010-11-22T07:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/skymark-to-deploy-a380s-in-tokyo-london-business-fare-price-war.html
Skymark Airlines Inc. , the Japanese
carrier planning to buy Airbus SAS  A380s , said it expects to
make money flying business travelers between Tokyo and London on
the superjumbos for less than half the price rivals charge.  “There’s no competition in the business-class segment,”
President  Shinichi Nishikubo , who owns 49 percent of the low-
fare carrier, said in a Nov. 19 interview in Tokyo. “Business-
class seats just take the space of two economy seats. There’s no
reason to charge as much as airlines do.”  Tokyo-based Skymark will compete with  British Airways Plc ,
 All Nippon Airways Co. , Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. and  Japan
Airlines Corp.  on the London service. Nishikubo said he expects
to make a profit on the route in the first 12 months after
starting the A380 London flights in November 2014.  The carrier’s focus on business passengers flying overseas
will help generate operating income of about 2.2 billion yen
($26 million) on sales of 15 billion yen a year on the London-
Tokyo route alone, Nishikubo said. That’s almost as much as the
company’s total  operating profit  last year as a budget carrier
offering scheduled flights between Japanese cities.  “It appears a big gamble by Skymark,”  Paul Dewberry , an
analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said last week. “It’s
one that we’ll probably look back on and say is pivotal. It
potentially gives Skymark a cost advantage.”  Shares Gain  Skymark, which is listed on the start-up Mothers section of
the Tokyo Stock Exchange, rose 4.7 percent to 888 yen at the 3
p.m. close of trading in Tokyo. The shares have fallen 5.8
percent since the Nov. 8 end of trading, when the company
announced plans to buy A380s and start international scheduled
service.  The planes will be fitted with 114 business-class seats on
the upper deck and 280 premium economy seats below, and the
first will be delivered in September 2014, Nishikubo said.
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. , the largest operator of A380s, has 60
business-class, 399 economy-class and 12 first-class seats on
its superjumbos.  Nishikubo’s plan to rewrite his airline’s low-cost,
domestic economy carrier model risks losing the advantages of
focusing on regional services with smaller aircraft, said  Makoto Murayama , an analyst at Nomura Securities Co.  ‘Surprise’  “It comes as a surprise to us that they would launch
international services with A380s, the largest planes
available,” Murayama wrote in a note to clients after Skymark’s
Nov. 8 announcement it planned to buy the aircraft. “Low-cost
carriers serving international routes in Asia and Europe mostly
use mid-size planes that fly relatively short routes within
their regions.”  Nishikubo intends to offer roundtrip business-class tickets
on the London-Tokyo route for about 300,000 yen, compared with
about 700,000 yen currently offered by Japanese airlines, he
said. Frankfurt and New York routes will be added by fiscal 2017.  Skymark signed a memorandum of understanding with  Airbus 
earlier this month covering the purchase of four A380s, with
options for two more. The order for the first four planes is
worth 1.39 billion euros ($1.9 billion), according to Airbus’s
list prices.  The carrier intends to buy two of the aircraft with cash,
Nishikubo said. The carrier will arrange leases for the other
two with  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. , the parent of
Airbus, he said.  Profit Outlook  Skymark is predicting net income of 5.5 billion yen for the
year ending March 31, compared with a profit of 2.6 billion yen
a year earlier. The carrier, which flies a fleet of 15  Boeing Co. 
737 planes, forecasts sales of 56.5 billion yen for the period.  All Nippon, which has daily flights to London, forecasts
net income of 6 billion yen on sales of 1.38 trillion yen for
the year ending March 31.  Qantas Airways Ltd. , which also flies A380s, grounded its
fleet of six of the planes after a blowout in one of the engines
on a flight earlier this month from Singapore to Sydney. The
carrier said Rolls-Royce Group Plc may have to replace as many
as 40 turbines. Skymark hasn’t decided what engines to buy,
Nishikubo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kiyotaka Matsuda  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  