-- Swan Wants New `Competitive Force' to Challenge Australia's Biggest Banks
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-11-21T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/swan-says-australian-government-wants-more-competition-in-banking-system.html
Australian credit unions and
building societies can be a “strong competitive force” against
banks, helping to cut borrowing costs, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said
in his weekly economic note.  The government wants a “new pillar,” in the industry,
Swan said earlier in an interview yesterday with Channel Nine.
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia ,  Westpac Banking Corp. ,  Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. , and  National Australia Bank
Ltd. , dubbed the four pillars after a law preventing takeovers
among them, accounted for 87 percent of the home lending market
in September, up from 76 percent three years ago.  “We know there is more work to be done to build up
competition, and we are determined to do that,” Swan wrote in
his note yesterday. “I’m also a really big believer in the
capacity of our mutual credit unions and building societies to
be a strong competitive force in the banking sector.”  Australia’s biggest banks have been criticized for raising
borrowing costs by more than the central bank. Swan said his
government’s package to encourage competition will be released
next month. Opposition Shadow Treasurer  Joe Hockey  will call for
a review of the banking industry today, he said in an interview
with the Australian Broadcasting Corp yesterday.  The Greens Party on Nov. 15 introduced draft laws to place
restraints on the ability of the big banks to increase mortgage
rates. The proposals in the lower house of parliament would give
the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority powers to prevent
banks from raising mortgage fees above their funding costs.  ‘Silver Bullet’  Finance Minister  Penny Wong  ruled out regulation and said
the government will instead focus on supporting competition,
according to the transcript of a Sky News interview.  “We’re not pretending that there’s a silver bullet,” Wong
said. “We’re not going to re-introduce regulatory regimes,
which historically we know have made things worse for Australian
consumers and people trying to get home loans.”  Swan urged borrowers to seek loans from credit unions,
building societies and smaller banks, which offer more
competitive rates. He said the nation’s biggest banks act in an
“arrogant way.”  “The government is determined to see a new pillar in the
banking system, particularly based on the mutual sector,
particularly based on our credit unions and our building
societies,” Swan told Channel Nine yesterday. “They are safe
and they’re very competitive.”  Competitive Forces  The government has invested A$16 billion ($15.8 billion) in
Triple-A rated residential mortgage-backed securities to support
smaller lenders and lower the cost of funding, Swan said in his
economic note.  Commonwealth Bank reported on Nov. 15 a first-quarter
unaudited cash profit of about A$1.6 billion. Westpac,
Australia’s second-largest bank, earlier this month posted
second-half profit that almost tripled from a year earlier,
while ANZ Bank said a week earlier that earnings in the period
surged 69 percent to a record.  National Australia , the biggest
lender to companies, posted a cash profit gain of 32 percent in
the second half.  All four raised their standard variable mortgage rates by
more than the Nov. 2 quarter-percentage point move by the
central bank.  Australia’s Senate voted last month to hold an inquiry into
competition in the banking industry, including the fees they
charge.  ANZ Chief Executive Officer  Mike Smith  said Oct. 31 that
any attempt by lawmakers to control banks’ interest rates will
take Australia back to an era “long since gone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  