-- South Korea Scrambles Jets After North Fires on Island; Two Soldiers Dead
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-11-23T16:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/u-s-envoy-bosworth-visits-asia-amid-signs-north-korea-chases-nuclear-goal.html
North Korea lobbed artillery shells
at a South Korean island near the disputed border between the
two countries, killing two soldiers and setting houses ablaze in
the worst attack on its neighbor in at least eight months.  South Korea returned fire with 80 shells and scrambled
fighter jets as President  Lee Myung Bak  vowed to respond
“sternly.” Local television channel YTN showed smoke billowing
from Yeonpyeong island off South Korea’s northwest coast and
said residents took cover in bomb shelters. Stocks and U.S.
futures dropped while the dollar and Swiss franc strengthened.  Tensions with  Kim Jong Il ’s regime have risen in the
past year after the sinking of the South Korean warship Cheonan
in March killed 46 sailors. U.S. President  Barack Obama  this
week dispatched envoy  Stephen Bosworth  to Asia after  reports  by
a U.S. scientist that North Korea had revealed a “stunning”
uranium-enrichment plant.  “They want to direct attention to themselves, to say:
‘Look we are here, we are dangerous and we cannot just be
ignored,’” said  Andrei Lankov , an associate professor at
Kookmin University in Seoul. The U.S. position had been to
engage in talks when there was a prospect of democratization in
the North, he said. “Now the chances for democratization are
virtually zero, so they have nothing to talk about.”  Stocks Fall  The MSCI Asia-Pacific excluding Japan  Index  declined 2.3
percent to 453.89 as of 8:06 p.m. in Hong Kong. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.2 percent at 10:39 a.m. in New York.
The dollar rose 1.3 percent to $1.3449 per euro at 10:06 a.m. in
New York.  Obama was awakened at 3:55 a.m. for a security briefing on
the attack, an administration official who requested anonymity
said.  The U.S. condemned the North’s shelling and said it was
“firmly committed” to defending South Korea, according to a
statement released by the White House.  United Nations  Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon , a former
South Korean foreign minister, condemned the attack and called
it “one of the gravest incidents since the end of the Korean
War.” Ban, in a statement released in New York, said he was
“deeply concerned” by the incident, which he blamed on North
Korea, and urged “immediate restraint.”  China expressed “concern” over the North Korean shelling.  Contribute to Peace  “We hope the parties do more to contribute to peace and
stability on the Korean Peninsula,” Foreign Ministry spokesman
 Hong Lei  told reporters in Beijing today. Reports on North
Korea’s new uranium-enrichment plant underscore the need for
disarmament talks, Hong said.  “What is important is to restart six-party nuclear talks
at an early date,” he said.  Sixteen more South Korean soldiers and three civilians were
injured in the shelling, a Defense Ministry official said on
condition of anonymity because of military policy. Joint Chiefs
of Staff official Lee Hong Kee called the shelling, which began
around 2:30 p.m. local time, an “intentional attack.”  Shin Seung Won, 70, who has been running a motel on
Yeonpyeong for about 20 years, said by telephone: “I heard a
sudden, roaring sound. I ran to the window and saw my neighbor’s
house was burning and the neighborhood was covered in smoke.”  Artillery Fire  North Korea initiated the exchange of artillery fire,
Bosworth, the U.S. envoy, told reporters in Beijing at a news
conference after meeting with Chinese officials. The U.S. and
China share the view that “such conflict is very undesirable,”
and agreed that all sides should exercise restraint, Bosworth
said.  North Korea accused South Korea of opening fire first and
warned of more “merciless military attacks” if its territory
is violated. The North Korean army’s Supreme Command made the
statement in the official Korean Central News Agency.  South Korea yesterday kicked off a nine-day military
exercise, which North Korea said today was aimed at attacking
the country. The KCNA statement didn’t mention if North Korea
suffered any casualties.  “The North Korean issue is a tinder-box for the region,”
said  Gavin Parry , managing director of Hong Kong-based Parry
International Trading Ltd. “They like to saber rattle for
attention, but on the heels of a nuclear inspection that
indicated they could have bomb capabilities, markets can’t
afford to ignore any instability for the region.”  Pentagon Action ‘Premature’  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  is speaking with
defense officials in South Korea, Pentagon spokesman Colonel
 David Lapan  said. At this point, Lapan said it is “premature”
to say the military is considering any action.  “Any incidents like this we view with concern,” Lapan
said. “They certainly increase tensions on the peninsula.”  By attacking Yeonpyeong, 2 miles (3.2 kilometers) from the
border, North Korea has escalated its provocations against the
South and its U.S. ally, according to  Kenneth Quinones , former
State Department director of North Korean affairs, and a
professor at Akita International University in Japan.  “This is one of the most serious North Korean provocations
in at least two decades,” he said. The latest attack “was on a
civilian-occupied island, unlike the Cheonan, which was a naval
warship.”  North Korea may be trying to force a change in U.S. policy
that has shunned talks with Kim’s regime until it ends
provocations and lives up to commitments on ending its nuclear
weapons program, Lankov said. The attack may also signal
domestic instability as the ailing Kim seeks to cement the
handover of power to his youngest son,  Kim Jong Un .  Controlling Generals  “My gut feeling is that Kim Jong Il is having a very hard
time controlling his generals,” Quinones said. “The North
Korean military is asserting itself at a time when Kim is weak
both physically and militarily. Kim Jong Un means nothing; he’s
a puppet.”  Kim Jong Un made his public debut in September, when he was
named a general and vice commissioner of the Central Military
Commission, the nation’s most powerful body. Those were his
first public appointments and were followed by a succession of
appearances alongside his father.  Korea is laboring under United Nations sanctions over its
two previous nuclear device tests. Attempts to force Kim’s
regime back to disarmament talks have foundered after North
Korea quit the six-party forum last year. The talks include the
U.S., Russia, Japan, South Korea and China, the North’s main
political ally and source of aid.  North Korea has a history of attacks on the South since the
two sides fought to a standstill in their 1950-1953 civil war.
China backed the North and the United States led an
international force fighting on the side of the South, laying
out a Cold War relationship that endures to this day.  U.S. Troops  The U.S. has about 25,000 troops in the South and Obama
said during a Nov. 10 Veterans Day speech in Seoul that
America’s resolve to stand alongside its ally will never waver.  Previous incidents have included the 1987 bombing of a
civilian airliner that killed 115 people, two assassination
attempts on the president and incursions by mini-submarines
carrying commandoes.  At an emergency meeting of security-related ministers,
South Korean President Lee ordered the military to “respond
sternly, while making sure the situation doesn’t get
aggravated,” his office said.  South Korea’s Unification Ministry canceled inter-Korean
Red Cross talks scheduled to take place on Nov. 25.  “What can South Korea do apart from a bit of chest
beating?” Lankov said. “They are not going to start a war. I
think they will try to play it down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  