-- Warren Buffett Tells ABC Rich People Should Pay Higher Taxes
-- B y   J u l i a n n   N e h e r
-- 2010-11-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/warren-buffett-tells-abc-rich-people-should-pay-more-in-taxes.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said that
rich people should pay more in taxes and that Bush-era tax cuts
for top earners should be allowed to expire at the end of
December.  “If anything, taxes for the lower and middle class and
maybe even the upper middle class should even probably be cut
further,” Buffett said in an interview with ABC’s “This Week
With Christiane Amanpour” that is scheduled to air on Nov. 28.
“But I think that people at the high end -- people like myself
-- should be paying a lot more in taxes. We have it better than
we’ve ever had it.”  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  plans to take up President
 Barack Obama ’s plan to extend some of the tax cuts enacted under
President  George W. Bush  when the House returns after
Thanksgiving. The legislation would retain lower tax rates and
increased credits that apply only to the first $250,000 of a
married couple’s gross income or $200,000 of a single person’s.  Unless Congress acts, marginal income tax rates will rise
across the board, tax credits that benefit families will be
slashed, and tax rates on capital gains and dividends will
increase. In addition, a federal tax on estates worth more than
$1 million will be resurrected after expiring for 2010.  “The rich are always going to say that, you know, just
give us more money and we’ll go out and spend more and then it
will all trickle down to the rest of you,” Buffett, chief
executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,  said in the
interview. “But that has not worked the last 10 years, and I
hope the American public is catching on.”  House Democratic Leader  Steny Hoyer  yesterday didn’t rule
out backing a temporary extension of the Bush tax cuts for
households earning more than $250,000 a year. He said he plans
to discuss the matter with Obama.  “I’m certainly going to talk to him about how we move the
ball forward,” Hoyer said on the CBS “Face the Nation”
program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juliann Neher  in Washington at 
 jneher1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  