-- Westfield Raises $1.4 Billion in Stratford Stake Sale to Canada Pension
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-11-22T12:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-21/westfield-raising-1-4-billion-in-stratford-sale-before-new-fund-s-listing.html
Westfield Group , the world’s largest
owner of shopping centers, will sell a 50 percent stake in
Europe’s biggest mall to Dutch and Canadian retirement funds for
871.5 million pounds ($1.4 billion).  APG Algemene Pensioen Groep NV, the manager of Europe’s
biggest retirement plan, and the Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board will each buy 25 percent of  Stratford City  next to the
2012 Olympic site in east London, Westfield said in a regulatory
filing today. Westfield shares gained the most in almost six
months.  “The group will significantly improve its return on
invested capital from the development and will remain a long-
term investor, property manager and developer” of the center,
Westfield Managing Director  Steven Lowy  said in the statement.  Westfield, whose existing assets include London’s White
City mall, said it will book a development profit of about 300
million pounds on  Stratford City  as a result of the deal. It
expects to complete Stratford City, which has 1.9 million square
feet (176,000 square meters) of retail and entertainment space,
in the third quarter of 2011. About 75 percent of the space is
already leased or committed, the company said.  The stock advanced 33 cents, or 2.8 percent, to A$12.15 in
Sydney trading, paring this year’s decline to 3.1 percent. It
was the biggest gain since May 28.  Marks and Spencer  The mall will have more than 300 outlets, including stores
operated by  Marks & Spencer Group Plc , the U.K.’s largest
clothing retailer; John Lewis Partnership Plc, owner of the
eponymous department-store chain; and Waitrose Ltd., John
Lewis’s supermarket unit, the company said today.  Westfield is retaining ownership of the rest of the
development, which includes 1.1 million square feet of office
space, two hotels, apartments and parking for 5,000 cars. Four
million people live within 45 minutes of Stratford City.  The investment in Stratford City is the third by the
Canadian fund in U.K. commercial real estate in less than a year.
In August, it bought a stake in an office in London’s main
financial district together with U.K. developer Hammerson Plc.
The two also teamed up to buy Scotland’s second-biggest mall in
December.  Westfield’s plan to spin off a trust owning stakes in its
54 Australian and New Zealand malls led Standard & Poor’s to put
the Sydney-based company’s credit rating under review earlier
this month. Westfield Retail Trust plans to raise A$3.5 billion
($3.46 billion). The company will seek backing for the new trust
in a shareholder vote on Dec. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 saminather1@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 papuc1@bloomberg.net .
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 