-- 
AstraZeneca Said to Pay $150 Million to Settle About 6,000 Seroquel Suits

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-02-17T14:04:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-01/astrazeneca-won-t-face-immediate-trials-of-seroquel-cases-amid-mediation.html
  AstraZeneca Plc  agreed to pay $150
million to settle more lawsuits claiming its antipsychotic drug
 Seroquel  causes  diabetes , pushing the amount the drugmaker has
paid to resolve cases over the medicine to almost $350 million,
people familiar with the accords said.  AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, will
resolve about 6,000 cases alleging the company knew Seroquel
could cause diabetes and failed to adequately warn patients, two
people familiar with the settlements said. They spoke on the
condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly about the accords. The cases settled for an average of
about $25,000 each, the people said.  The settlements signal AstraZeneca is seeking to put the
Seroquel litigation behind it as it works to overcome setbacks
in its drug-development pipeline, said Jeremy Batstone-Carr,
London-based analyst for Charles Stanley & Co., who rates the
drugmaker’s shares as “accumulate.”  “Legal cases represent one of the great imponderables that
can act on shareholder sentiment,” Batstone-Carr said. “You
try to clear the decks and get investors as great a degree of
certainty as possible.”  The settlement, which resulted from a court-ordered
mediation, leaves AstraZeneca now facing about 4,000 Seroquel
claims, according to a regulatory filing. The London-based
drugmaker announced last summer it had resolved about two-thirds
of the 26,000 suits over the drug that had been filed in courts
around the U.S.  $198 Million Settlement  The company agreed in August to pay about $198 million to
settle 17,500 suits, providing average payouts of more than
$11,000. The company won the first  jury trial  over Seroquel in
March 2010.    Tony Jewell , a U.S.-based spokesman for AstraZeneca,
declined to comment on the settlements in an e-mailed statement,
saying they were confidential.  Seroquel, with 2010 sales of $5.3 billion, is the company’s
second-biggest seller after the cholesterol-reducing drug
Crestor. AstraZeneca trails only London-based  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc  among U.K. drug companies.  AstraZeneca has had setbacks with three experimental
products in the past eight months. The company, which also makes
the ulcer treatment Nexium, lowered its forecast for sales from
new products in January.  In a January filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, AstraZeneca officials said they reached settlements
with a total of 24,591 former Seroquel uses.  3,950 Cases Left  As of December 2010, company executives were “aware of
approximately 3,950 Seroquel U.S. product-liability claims that
have not been settled in principle,” according to the Jan. 27
filing. The majority of those cases are in state courts in  New
York  and  New Jersey , officials added in the filing.  AstraZeneca officials also noted in the filing that the
company had paid a total of $738 million to defend Seroquel as
of December 2010. In addition, the company agreed last year to
pay $520 million to resolve U.S. allegations that it illegally
marketed Seroquel for unapproved uses.  Since 2006, all Seroquel cases filed against AstraZeneca in
U.S. federal courts have been consolidated in  Orlando , Florida,
for pretrial evidence gathering.  The cases were gathered together as part of the  Multi-
District Litigation  program intended to save money by
streamlining document exchanges and avoiding duplication. The
company also faces cases in state courts in  Delaware , New Jersey
and New York, according to court filings.  The judge overseeing the cases asked  Stephen Saltzburg , a
 George Washington University Law School  professor, to serve as
mediator in hopes of reaching settlements on those cases.  ‘Done Well’  AstraZeneca lawyers and  Ken Bailey , a lawyer representing
former Seroquel users, reached the most-recent settlements as
part of talks sponsored by Saltzburg, the people familiar with
the accords said.  Bailey, of Houston’s  Bailey Perrin Bailey  law firm,
declined to comment on the settlements.  Michael Kelly , a
Wilmington, Delaware-based lawyer for AstraZeneca who serves as
the drugmaker’s lead negotiator in the settlements, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  “Looks like they have done well out of the settlement,”
Navid Malik, a drug-industry analyst at Matrix Corporate Capital
in  London . “The cost looks to be at the lower end of
expectations to me.”  AstraZeneca fell 22 pence to 3,013 pence in London Stock
Exchange trading at 8:52 a.m. The company’s shares have risen
3.1 percent this year.  The case is In Re Seroquel Products Litigation, 06-
MD-01769, U.S. District Court, Middle District of  Florida 
  Orlando ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  