-- White House Urges Congress to Help Revive Economy `Quickly'
-- Mike Dorning
-- 2010-09-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-01/rohmer-urges-congress-to-help-boost-economy-amid-talks-on-additional-steps.html

          
          
             The Obama administration, concerned
about the weakening U.S. recovery, is pushing Congress to
approve proposals to stimulate growth in the final two months
before congressional elections.  
 “The only surefire ways for policy makers to substantially
increase aggregate demand in the short run are for the
government to spend more and tax less,”  Christina Romer , the
departing White House chief economist, said in a speech in
Washington yesterday. “We should be moving forward on both
fronts.”  
 Romer’s comments as she leaves her post tomorrow as chair
of the Council of Economic Advisers highlight the Obama
administration’s worries about slowing growth and a  jobless rate 
forecast to remain above 9 percent through midterm elections in
November. She warned that a failure by Congress to do more to
bolster hiring risked “making high  unemployment  permanent” as
idled workers’ skills deteriorate.  
 Obama said this week his advisers are looking at
“additional measures” to boost the economy. White House
economic and policy aides are conferring with allies in Congress
to see what moves might attract enough votes to pass, said an
administration official who declined to be identified because no
decisions have been reached.  
 Those discussions have included consideration of payroll
tax relief to encourage new hires and more infrastructure
spending, said a congressional aide who declined to be
identified because the discussions are still going on.  
 Payroll Taxes  
 Among the ideas are extending or expanding the scope of the
Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act, which provides
payroll tax credits through the end of the year for hiring new
employees who have previously been unemployed at least 60 days,
the aide said.  
 Additional spending on infrastructure would face challenges
in the Senate from Republicans and some Democrats concerned
about increasing the size of the deficit, said three
congressional aides who declined to be identified because the
talks are preliminary.  
 The administration also is considering other business tax
breaks and new tax breaks for small businesses beyond those
contained in Obama-backed legislation the Senate is due to take
up this month, said a person familiar with the discussions.
Those would be easier than spending measures to get approved in
Congress, and the size of such an initiative is still under
debate, the person said.  
 “The key is that we need to take action and we need to do
it quickly,” Romer said in her speech at the National Press
Club. “No one should be blocking essential actions for partisan
reasons.”  
 CEA Opening  
 Romer, 51, an architect of the $814 billion stimulus
program, leaves the White House to return to teaching at the
University of California in Berkeley.  
 Across-the-board tax cuts, which went into effect in 2001
and 2003, are due to expire Dec. 31. The Obama administration
wants to let tax cuts continue for households earning less than
$250,000 a year or individuals earning less than $200,000.  
 Renewing tax cuts for wealthy Americans would be a “bad
bargain” that wouldn’t give the economy much of a boost, Romer
said.  
 Many Republicans including Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  and House Minority Leader  John Boehner  contend that
tax cuts should remain for all and any attempt to target the
wealthy -- the top 2 percent earners in the country -- could
hurt growth and investment.  
 ‘Dead on Arrival’  
 The administration will have a difficult time “coming up
with something that’s not dead on arrival” in Congress, said
Chad Stone, who was chief economist at Council of Economic
Advisers during the Clinton administration. “That’s a really
serious problem.”  
 Answering questions after her speech, Romer said the odds
that the U.S. economy would fall back into recession are “very
small,” and she predicted it would emerge from the current
period of “turbulence.”  
 Obama plans a speech on the economy Sept. 6, the Labor Day
holiday, in Milwaukee when he appears at an event organized by
the Milwaukee Area Labor Council.  
 Details about the administration’s economic plans will be
revealed “over the course of the next several weeks” and
before the Nov. 2 elections, White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said earlier this week.  
 Options  
 Private economists say there are other steps the
administration could take in the short term. They include tax
rebates, direct hiring by government of low-income unemployed,
enlarging the current program of tax credits for employers
hiring the jobless, renewing the “Making Work Pay” tax-credit
program of 2009 and another extension of unemployment benefits
that expire in November.  
 “If you want to get something into the economic pipeline
before November you’ve got to do it quickly,” and tax rebate
checks are the best option, said  Catherine Mann , an economics
professor at Brandeis University in Waltham, Massachusetts.  
 Economist  Michelle Girard  said the administration should
instead cut payroll taxes and extend Bush tax cuts across the
board. “Lowering tax rates and encouraging firms to both hire
and invest by reducing the cost of doing so I think is likely to
produce lasting effects,” said Girard, a senior economist at
RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.  
 Without supplying specifics, Romer said additional measures
are needed because two earlier drivers of the economic recovery
-- business investment in equipment and software, and exports --
have “taken a hit” in recent months.  
 ‘Headwinds’  
 “The result of these powerful headwinds and recent
developments is that the United States still faces a substantial
shortfall of aggregate demand,” she said. “The pressing
question, then, is what can be done to increase demand and bring
unemployment down more quickly. Failing to do so would cause
millions of workers to suffer unnecessarily.”  
 A Labor Department report scheduled to be released tomorrow
may show private U.S. employers added 42,000 jobs in August and
the unemployment rate rose to 9.6 percent from 9.5 percent in
July, according to the median of estimates in Bloomberg News
surveys of economists. Total nonfarm payrolls are forecast to
fall by 100,000, a third straight drop in job growth after gains
in each of the first five months of the year, a survey of
economists showed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Dorning  in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Christina Romer, Departing White House Chief Economist  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Christina Romer, departing chairwoman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Christina Romer, departing chairwoman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
