-- UAL plans up to 400 additional job cuts
-- 
-- Fri Jul 11, 2008 6:30pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/11/businesspro-united-jobs-dc-idUSN1134441820080711

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - UAL Corp UAUA.O, parent of United 
Airlines, plans to eliminate up to 400 more jobs as it 
continues to shrink its operations due to skyrocketing fuel 
costs, the company said on Friday. 

  United said in a statement it had reached an agreement with 
the International Association of Machinists for a voluntary 
retirement program for veteran ground workers, including 
customer service agents and bag handlers.  United said it would continue to explore "viable 
alternatives" to furloughs but did not rule them out if the 
early out measure did not reach its goal of up to 400 
employees.  United and other big carriers are slashing domestic flights 
as well as the jobs needed to operate and support them to 
address a 50 percent increase in jet fuel costs this year.  United has previously announced plans to trim 950 pilots, 
about 600 flight attendants and 1,500 salaried workers.  Industry officials project that airline financial losses 
could top $10 billion this year without relief from fuel price 
increases, possibly leading to more bankruptcies.  Airlines have asked their customers to lobby Congress on 
legislation that would more tightly regulate speculative 
futures trading, which carriers as well as some lawmakers and 
energy experts blame for higher oil prices and recent price 
spikes.  Crude prices topped $145 a barrel on Friday.  James May, chief executive of the industry's top trade 
group, the Air Transport Association, led a group of travel 
industry executives on Friday in a formal plea to lawmakers to 
enact energy trading legislation before the August 
congressional recess.  May estimated that a $30 per barrel reduction in oil prices 
could be enough to stabilize an industry that is bleeding cash. 
But he said reestablishing lost jobs and services would require 
a steeper price decline.  (Reporting by  John Crawley ; Editing by  Mark Porter  and Gary 
Hill)