-- Absa's Ramos `Not Worried' by Barclays Stress Test; Sees Peak in Bad Loans
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-06-27T16:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/absa-s-ramos-not-worried-by-barclays-stress-test-sees-peak-in-bad-loans.html

          
          
             Absa Group Ltd.,  South Africa’s
third-largest lender, said it’s “not worried” about the impact
of stress tests on parent company  Barclays Plc .  
 “We went through stress testing last year and all it
showed was that Barclays was in a strong position,” Chief
Executive Officer  Maria Ramos  said in an interview at the
 Fortune Global Forum  in Cape Town today. “What is important is
that if that’s what’s going to be done, that everyone gets on
the same page.”  
 Banks in the U.K., where Barclays is based, are facing
stress tests and may be subject to levies and taxes. The U.S.
has also introduced financial regulations that the government
says will protect consumers, curb risks, boost surveillance of
emerging threats to markets and give regulators more emergency
powers to avoid future taxpayer-funded bailouts of too-big-to-
fail firms. If the legislation is successful, it may influence
banks globally.  
 “With Barclays there is ongoing work and there isn’t a
start date for working together in a particular country,” Ramos
said. Absa, which sold a controlling stake in the lender to
Barclays five years ago and has been looking for ways to boost
growth in Africa through the partnership, will discuss merging
the banks’ Tanzanian operations, she said.  
 Initial Public Offering  
 Absa plans to hold an initial public offering for its 55.5
percent-owned National Bank of Commerce Ltd. in Tanzania and
list it on the Dar es Salaam exchange. Ramos said the public
offer, which will dilute the state’s holding in NBC, as it’s
known, may take place by the first quarter of next year, after
which a merger with Barclays may take place.  
 The soccer World Cup, which began in South Africa on June
11, has boosted volumes through Absa’s ATMs and at its foreign
exchange outlets, Ramos said. The event will pay dividends for
the country “for a long time,” she said, adding that a South
African bid to host the Olympics “may have some value.”  
 Corporate bad debts at Absa are on target to peak in the
first half, with Absa’s fiscal first half ending on June 30,
Ramos said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        