-- Lampard, Tevez Put Use of Technology to Aid Referees on World Cup Agenda
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-06-28T17:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/lampard-tevez-put-use-of-technology-to-aid-referees-on-world-cup-agenda.html

          
          
             A day after soccer’s ruling body
said it’s still not interested in using technology to help
referees make correct calls,  Frank Lampard  and  Carlos Tevez 
provided the latest cases for its introduction at the World Cup.  
 Lampard was denied a goal in England’s 4-1 defeat to
Germany yesterday even though television replays showed that his
shot crossed the goal line. Had it counted, England would have
pulled level at 2-2 in Bloemfontein, South Africa.  
 “I am in favor of goal-line technology, especially after
tonight,” Lampard told reporters. “The ball crossed the line,
it was over, it was so obvious. If we had got back to 2-2 at
that moment, it could have been different.”  
 Germany advanced to a quarterfinal against Argentina, who
took the lead against Mexico last night when Tevez headed  Lionel Messi’s  pass into the net from an offside position. Mexican
players protested and the referee consulted his assistant before
allowing the goal to stand.  
 The two wrong calls, seen by a global television audience
of millions, prompted U.K. bookmaker William Hill to cut its
odds on governing body FIFA putting video technology in place
before the 2014 World Cup to 7-2 from 5-1.  
 “With two such huge decisions being proved to be incorrect
within such a short space of time and costing both England and
Mexico dear, the pressure will be on FIFA to take some action,”
William Hill spokesman  Graham Sharpe  said in a statement.  
 Resistance  
 While sports including tennis, rugby and cricket use
replays and other devices to aid decision-making, soccer has
resisted adopting the technology. FIFA said in March that the
“door is closed” on the use of technology such as video after
a meeting of the International Football Association Board, the
sport’s lawmaking body.  
 As recently as two days ago, FIFA Secretary General  Jerome Valcke  reiterated the Zurich-based organization’s stance, even
after incidents in World Cup games in South Africa where the
match officials appeared to get it wrong.  
 Valcke said that while additional assistants behind each
goal may be used at the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, the use of
video “is definitely not on the table.”  
 “The one thing we are discussing is two additional
assistants to support referees to make decision-making easier
and to have more eyes helping him to make such decisions,”
Valcke told a June 26 media briefing in Johannesburg.  
 Time for Technology?  
 FIFA President  Sepp Blatter , who said in April that leaving
decisions to the on-pitch officials “is part of the human
nature of our sport,” was in the stands in Bloemfontein to
witness first-hand the error that thwarted Lampard.  
 “Do we need goal-line technology?”  Rio Ferdinand ,
England’s regular captain who missed the World Cup because of
injury, posted on the Twitter social networking site midway
through the game.  
 “I do believe that certain technology could be introduced
in the future,” Portugal coach  Carlos Queiroz  said at a press
conference today. “At stake is the credibility of the game.
There are 1 billion people who see what happens and three, the
referee and linesmen, who can’t.”  
 The U.S., Ivory Coast and Chile are among other teams at
the tournament that may have benefited from a video review.  
 Referee Koman Coulibaly disallowed a goal that might have
given the U.S. the win in its 2-2 draw with Slovenia on June 18.
Coulibaly ruled out a Maurice Edu strike that would have put the
U.S. up 3-2. Replays appeared to show that U.S. players weren’t
offside, and there were no obvious fouls by Americans.  
 Brazil’s  Luis Fabiano  admitted to using his hand in scoring
a goal in a 3-1 win over Ivory Coast, while Chile’s Marco
Estrada was shown a red card in a group game against Spain for a
foul on  Fernando Torres . Replays showed the Spanish striker
appearing to trip over himself.  
 Blatter said in April that even if technology was applied,
the final decision would still have to be taken by a person.  
 ‘10 Different Opinions’  
 “This being the case, why remove the responsibility from
the referee to give it to someone else?” he said. “It is often
the case that, even after a slow-motion replay, 10 different
experts will have 10 different opinions on what the decision
should have been.”  
 Even before the tournament, calls for the introduction of
video or computer technology to help decide goals had grown
following controversy over a  Thierry Henry  handball that helped
France qualify at Ireland’s expense.  
 The English and Scottish soccer associations had proposed
tests of tennis-style computer analysis of goals or the use of
microchips in match balls, though this was rejected by the
International Football Association Board.  
 “You cannot accept it anymore, football is the only sport
that doesn’t accept technology,” former Netherlands midfielder
 Clarence Seedorf  said in analyzing the England game for the
British Broadcasting Corp. “For years they have proven that it
works.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Durban through the Johannesburg newsroom
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Germany's goalkeeper Manuel Neuer eyes the ball after conceding a denied goal during the 2010 World Cup round of 16 football match Germany vs. England at Free State stadium in Mangaung/Bloemfontein. Photographer: Jewel Samad/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     England's midfielder Frank Lampard reacts after his goal was ruled out. Photographer: Clive Mason/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
