-- Argentina's Tevez `Goes for Glory' as Teammate Messi Attracts More Fouls
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-06-27T23:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/argentina-s-tevez-goes-for-glory-as-teammate-messi-attracts-more-fouls.html

          
          
             Carlos Tevez  scored the goals as
 Lionel Messi  rode the tackles to help lift two-time champion
Argentina into a soccer World Cup quarterfinal against Germany.  
 With reigning world player of the year Messi closely
covered by Mexico, Tevez scored in each half last night to send
Argentina on the way to a 3-1 win in Johannesburg. Instructions
from coach  Diego Maradona  to push forward paid off, Tevez said.  
 “He wants me to play further up, and he told me I can go
further down whenever I feel like it,” Tevez told reporters
after receiving the man-of-the-match award. “I needed a match
like this, to prove that I am happy, well and that I am fine. I
really want to go for glory.”  
 The victory set up a repeat of the 2006 quarterfinal
between the teams, when three-time world champion Germany
triumphed in a penalty shootout in Berlin following a 1-1 draw.
The teams will meet for the sixth time in the World Cup when
playing in Cape Town July 3.  
 Maradona, who played in Argentina’s 3-2 win over Germany in
the 1986 final and its loss to the same opponent in the decider
four years later, entered his post-match press conference
smoking a cigar and immediately praised the spirit of his squad.  
 “I feel like putting on my jersey and going onto the pitch
myself,” Maradona told reporters. “Germany is a different team
to Mexico, stronger, but we will field the right players in
order to beat Germany.”  
 His celebratory mood was tempered when he was asked about
Tevez’s 26th-minute opener, which the Manchester City striker
headed in from close range after Messi chipped the ball to him.
The Mexican players -- having seen a video replay screened at
the stadium -- protested that Tevez was offside, and surrounded
the assistant referee, who had not raised his flag.  
 Five Fouls  
 Maradona instead took the question as a cue to defend
playmaker Messi, who was fouled five times in the match,
including a 28th-minute tackle from  Rafael Marquez  that resulted
in the Mexican captain getting a yellow card.  
 “Messi gets the ball and everyone is trying to kick him,”
Maradona said. “What is being done to Messi is a scandal. They
don’t look for the ball, they kick him.”  
 Messi has been fouled  15 times  at the tournament so far,
according to statistics provided by soccer governing body FIFA.
Only Japan’s Keisuke Honda has suffered more fouls against him.  
 Mexico coach  Javier Aguirre  said Tevez’s first goal caused
his players to lose their concentration, and they fell 2-0
behind when  Ricardo Osorio  turned the ball over to  Gonzalo Higuain . The Argentine striker pounced on the mistake to score
his tournament-leading fourth goal after 33 minutes.  
 Tevez drove in a 25-yard shot in the 52nd minute for his
second goal and Argentina’s third, before Mexico made it 3-1
through Javier Hernandez.  
 “It is difficult when things are not going in your
favor,” Aguirre said in a news conference. “I told the boys,
heads up, stand proud and tall, be calm and cool, everyone is
human. Referees have to make split-second decisions and they can
spoil everything, it happens.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Johannesburg at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Derby  at Soccer City, Johannesburg, at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        