-- Harrods, Liberty Follow Saks in Creating Own-Brand Fashion to Revive Sales
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-06-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/harrods-liberty-follow-saks-in-creating-own-brand-fashion-to-revive-sales.html

          
          
             Harrods Ltd., the iconic London
department store that sells diamond-encrusted  Bulgari SpA 
sunglasses, Yves Saint Laurent scents and DKNY bags, is now
banking on the brand its customers know best.  
 The retailer plans to create in-store shops for Harrods-
branded clothing and accessories by 2012, making it the latest
high-end department store to bet its name can spur sales and
profit after the luxury industry’s worst-ever year.  
 As luxury-goods makers  Burberry Group Plc  and Prada SpA cut
their dependence on third-party distributors by opening outlets,
department stores are filling selling space with their own
brands.  Saks Inc .’s revamped men’s collection is set to become
the New York store’s largest men’s wear brand. With lower prices
than mainstream luxury brands, retailers’ labels can appeal to
customers who are more price-sensitive after the recession.  
 “Department stores realize that their most valuable asset
is their own name,” said  Umberto Angeloni , co-owner of Italian
suitmaker  Raffaele Caruso SpA , which also manufactures private-
label tailored clothing for retailers.  
 At Harrods, the range of men’s clothing and accessories
will be positioned as an alternative to a brand like Brioni
Roman Style SpA, the Italian maker of $5,000 suits, Jason
Broderick, general merchandise manager, said in an interview.  
 The retailer, acquired last month by Qatar Holding LLC for
1.5 billion pounds ($2.3 billion), foresees a “substantial”
part of future sales coming from its own brand, Broderick said.  
 Private-label fashion is “a growing part of our business
with huge potential,” he said.  
 ‘Natural Extension’  
 Liberty, the 135-year-old London-based retailer known for
its flowered prints, is going a step further. It unveiled a new
men’s clothing line for spring 2011 at last week’s Milan fashion
show that it also plans to distribute in competitors’ stores.  
 The Liberty of London collection, which will be made under
license with Venice-based  Slowear Group , is “a natural
extension” of the shorts, scarves and knitwear the retailer has
produced since 2005, Liberty said.  
 “The recession seemed to reset everyone’s expectations as
to price point, bringing it back into reality,” said Liberty’s
buying director Ed Burstell. Liberty of London for men should be
a multi-million pound brand “quite quickly,” he said.  
 Harrods and Liberty may be hoping to emulate  Saks . A year
after revamping its private label men’s collection, Saks Fifth
Avenue Men’s Collection is forecast to become the New York-based
department store group’s largest men’s wear brand, said  Thomas Ott , Saks senior vice president of men’s wear.  
 Saks Collection  
 “We have invested in all categories as we saw a white
space that none of our vendor partners were addressing,” Ott
said. The collection offers dress shirts that start at $135. New
products include Italian-made shoes and cufflinks, tie bars,
money clips and key chains. In the fourth quarter, Saks will
introduce Swiss automatic watches.  
 “Each season we edit our portfolio of resources and
instead of filling with only other new brands, some of these
dollars and floor space have gone to our own collection,” Ott
said in an interview.  
 Expanding own-label lines allows the famous stores to fight
the irrelevance faced by some of their mid-priced rivals such as
insolvent  Karstadt AG  in Germany. It is a “categoric
imperative” that they broaden their appeal to as wide a number
of potential customers as possible, said  Armando Branchini , vice
president of Milan-based consulting firm Intercorporate.  
 Defensive Move  
 “The richer and more effective the offer, the bigger the
competitive advantage the department store will have,”
Branchini said. “The more a department store can acquire new
types of consumer, the more it can create the conditions for a
more immediate and longer lasting economic success.”  
 Expanding own-label brands is also defensive, according to
Caruso’s Angeloni. As luxury brands reduce their reliance on
wholesale, “department stores have realized that they risked
becoming pure landlords,” Angeloni said.  
 Private labels aren’t going to replace luxury brands as
the driver of high-end department-store sales, according to
Alberto Baldan, managing director of Milan-based retailer
 Rinascente SpA . Consumers visit retail “destinations” like
Rinascente, whose private label accounts for 20 percent of
revenue, because they offer choice, Baldan said.  
 “Our private label business is complementary rather than
strategic,” Baldan said.  
 While most department stores have had some kind of private
label business for a while, they are now pricing them alongside
luxury goods, said  Andrea Ciccoli , one of three administrators
for Ittierre SpA, the Italian production company which makes
clothing under license for  Roberto Cavalli  and John Galliano.  
 “They don’t look like private labels anymore,” said
Ciccoli, a former partner at consulting firm Bain & Co. In terms
of quality, packaging and promotion, “they’re more like real
brands,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     'Department stores realize that their most valuable asset is their own name,' said Umberto Angeloni, co-owner of Italian suitmaker Raffaele Caruso SpA. Photographer: Chris Warde-Jones/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
