-- AstraZeneca Is Scaling Up Operations in South African Market, Brennan Says
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-06-27T11:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/astrazeneca-is-scaling-up-operations-in-south-african-market-brennan-says.html

          
          
             AstraZeneca Plc , the U.K.’s second-
largest drugmaker, is scaling up its up its operations in South
Africa, where sales are growing faster than in more established
markets, Chief Executive Officer David Brennan said.  
 “We have been increasing our investment in our marketing,
selling and clinical research capabilities here,” he said in an
interview at the Fortune Global Forum in Cape Town today.
“There is scope for continued investment. Our business here is
growing faster than the market here.”  
 AstraZeneca  needs new sources of  revenue  to offset
potential competition to seven drugs by 2014, three of which are
its biggest sellers: Nexium for ulcers, the antipsychotic
Seroquel and Crestor for cholesterol. The London-based drugmaker
aims to boost sales from emerging markets to 25 percent of
annual revenue by 2014 from 13 percent last year.  
 Expansion opportunities are being considered on a country-
by-country basis, rather than on a regional level, Brennan said.  
 “China is a big opportunity, but not all the markets in
Asia have the same opportunities when you compare them to
Russia, to Brazil, to Argentina,” he said. “Our central
Europe, Middle East and Africa operations are the ones where we
will disproportionately invest. They are the opportunities for
future growth.”  
 AstraZeneca  is focusing on sales of branded drugs to the
growing middle classes in emerging economies. That strategy has
curtailed expansion in the rest of sub-Saharan Africa, the
world’s poorest region.  
 “It is going to take some time” for other African markets
to develop, Brennan said. “The needs of those people from a
medical perspective are probably different from our offerings,
because we’re traditionally a Western-based company. A lot of
our research and development is in Western diseases.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        