-- Tata May Lure Hyundai, Suzuki Buyers as India Ends Gasoline Price Controls
-- Subramaniam Sharma
-- 2010-06-28T11:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/tata-may-lure-hyundai-suzuki-buyers-as-india-ends-gasoline-price-controls.html

          
          
             Tata Motors Ltd. , challenging
Hyundai Motor Co. as India’s No. 2 automaker, may gain an edge
over the South Korean carmaker from India’s decision to end
state controls on gasoline prices.  
 Tata may lure drivers from Hyundai and  Maruti Suzuki India
Ltd. , the nation’s biggest carmaker, as it has a wider range of
diesel models, said  Mahantesh Sabarad , a Mumbai-based analyst at
Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
last week freed gasoline prices to pare spending, while keeping
diesel subsidies for the time being.  
 “When you think of the beneficiaries of this move, the
first name that comes to mind is  Tata ,” said Sabarad. “They
have a sizeable portfolio of diesel vehicles.”  
 Tata gets as much as 80 percent of sales from diesel models,
according to Sabarad. The carmaker sells Indica hatchbacks and
Indigo sedans that run on the fuel and it’s developing a diesel-
powered version of the Nano, the world’s cheapest car. Diesel
accounts for about 20 percent of sales at Maruti and less at
Hyundai. Honda Motor Co., the No. 5 automaker in India, doesn’t
offer any vehicles that run on the fuel.  
 “Honda will have a problem,” said  Deepesh Rathore ,
managing director of IHS Global Insight India. “Hyundai doesn’t
have any diesel engines for small cars. These two companies will
be adversely affected.”  
 Tata  rose 2.6 percent to 789.25 rupees in Mumbai trading
today, ending four days of declines. Maruti fell 0.2 percent to
1,394.75 rupees, while the Sensex Index rose 1.1 percent.  
 20 Percent Cheaper  
 Diesel is about 20 percent cheaper than gasoline in India.
The end of gasoline subsidies may help diesel cars account for
as much as 30 percent of nationwide sales within two years from
less than 25 percent now, according to  Surjit Singh Arora , a
Mumbai-based analyst at brokerage Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt.  
 Honda is developing a diesel engine that will be introduced
in India,  Jnaneswar Sen , vice president for marketing at the
Tokyo-based company’s local unit, said without specifying a
timeframe. He said the new fuel-pricing rules won’t affect sales
as rising disposable incomes will boost overall demand.  
 Rajiv Mitra , a spokesman for Hyundai’s India unit, and
 Debasis Ray , a spokesman at Mumbai-based Tata, which also owns
Jaguar Land Rover, declined to comment.  Mayank Pareek , New
Delhi-based Maruti’s head of marketing and sales, didn’t answer
calls to his cellphone.  
 ‘Good Concept’  
 The decision to free fuel prices is a “good concept” that
the country needs in the long run,  Prakash M. Telang , the head
of Tata’s India operations, said on June 25. The automaker is on
course to pass Hyundai as India’s second-biggest carmaker after
opening a plant able to make as many as 250,000 Nanos annually
earlier this month. The capacity of the plant is equal to about
80 percent of Hyundai’s India’s sales last fiscal year.  
 General Motors Co., ranked fourth in India, sells both
diesel and gasoline, or petrol, models, said  P. Balendran , a
spokesman. The carmaker was seeing increasing demand for diesel
models over gasoline even before the pricing changes, he said.  
 Auto sales in India have surged since the beginning of last
year, helped by easier credit and lower interest rates. In the
year ended March, car sales jumped 25 percent, the fastest pace
in six years, to 1.53 million. Automakers, including  Toyota
Motor Corp. , are expanding factories and introducing new models
in the country to benefit from the increased demand.  
 Under the new fuel system, gasoline prices will be tied to
global crude prices, Oil Secretary  S. Sundareshan  said last week.
Bharat Petroleum Corp., India’s second-largest state-run refiner,
may now change gasoline prices every 15 days or monthly, said
Chairman  Ashok Sinha .  
 Higher Diesel-Car Prices  
 On June 25, the government also decided to raise the price
of gasoline by about 3.5 rupees (8 cents) a liter and the price
of diesel by 2 rupees. It was the third increase in fuel prices
this year. Gasoline cost 47.93 rupees a liter in New Delhi last
week, compared with 38.10 a liter for diesel, according to
Indian Oil Corp.’s  website .  
 Demand for diesel vehicles may be limited by the fact that
they are generally more expensive than gasoline models. A
gasoline-powered Maruti Swift hatchback costs from about 400,000
rupees ($8,620) in New Delhi while the diesel version starts at
about 483,000 rupees, according to the automaker’s  website .  
 The government also intends to end subsidies on diesel
eventually, Sundareshan told reporters in New Delhi on June 25,
without providing a timeframe. When that happens, diesel-powered
cars may become less attractive, said  Eduardo Lopez , a senior
demand analyst at the International Energy Agency in Paris.  
 Diesel-Car Duty?  
 “We could see a reversal or a move back to gasoline,” he
said. “What you’ve had until now was an increasing bias toward
diesel because diesel was being sold so cheaply.”  
 A government-appointed panel that recommended India free
fuel prices from state control also suggested an additional duty
on diesel-powered vehicles.  
 The panel, headed by  Kirit Parikh , a former member of the
nation’s Planning Commission, recommended levying 80,000 rupees
more in duties on vehicles fitted with diesel engines so that
the government collects the “same level of tax from those who
use a diesel vehicle for passenger transport.”  
 The government hasn’t said whether this recommendation will
be enacted. Until it decides to implement this levy or to
abolish diesel subsidies, consumers are most likely to focus on
the increasing difference between gasoline and diesel prices,
said IHS’s Rathore.  
 “The absolute difference between the price of petrol and
diesel will change,” he said. That will “shift sales from
petrol-engine cars to diesel-engine cars.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vipin V. Nair  in Mumbai at 
 Vnair12@bloomberg.net ;
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     S. Sundareshan, secretary of India's Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, speaks during an interview in New Delhi. Photographer: Keith Bedford/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
