-- U.K. Stocks Gain for First Time in Five Days; Fresnillo, Antofagasta Rise
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-06-28T15:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/bae-systems-prudential-rio-tinto-shell-wpp-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Most U.K. stocks rose, ending the
longest losing streak in seven weeks, as energy and mining
shares gained after the Group of 20 nations pledged to safeguard
growth while cutting debt.  
 Premier Oil Plc  soared 7.1 percent after saying that a well
in the North Sea encountered oil-bearing sandstones.  Lamprell
Plc  climbed as HSBC Holdings Plc upgraded the Dubai-based
oilfield services company.  Fresnillo Plc  and  Antofagasta Plc 
rose as metals rallied.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  sank
2.3 percent as Nomura International Plc said it’s cautious about
the lender’s “achievable profitability.”  
 The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  gained 25.21, or 0.5 percent,
to 5,071.68 in London, a first increase in five sessions. The
measure has lost 13 percent from this year’s high on April 15
amid concern about the fallout from Europe’s debt crisis. The
 FTSE All-Share Index  rose 0.4 percent, while Ireland’s  ISEQ
Index  increased 1.2 percent.  
 “The G-20 has pragmatically recognized that at this stage
national common sense is a higher priority than international
coordination,”  Marco Annunziata , chief European economist at
UniCredit Group, said in an e-mailed comment to clients. “The
explicit target to at least halve fiscal deficits by 2013 should
help at the margin to reassure investors, especially because it
implies that G-20 leaders recognize this can in fact be achieved
without necessarily compromising the global recovery.”  
 Capital Requirements  
 G-20 leaders endorsed targets to cut deficits and agreed to
pursue higher capital requirements for banks once their economic
recoveries take root. Advanced economies will aim to at least
halve deficits by 2013 and stabilize their debt-to-output ratios
by 2016, according to a statement released as leaders finished
meeting in Toronto yesterday. The G-20 said banks need to raise
capital “significantly” and countries will be allowed to phase
in new rules, with a goal of meeting new standards by the end of
2012.  
 Premier Oil  rallied 7.1 percent to 1,266 pence after saying
the Catcher East sidetrack well in the U.K. Central North Sea
encountered “excellent quality” oil-bearing sandstones.  
 BP Plc  rose 1.2 percent to 308.25 pence, rebounding from a
14-year low. The company stood by its August timeline for
plugging the leak behind the biggest U.S. oil spill on record,
sticking with a plan that may set the company up to beat its own
schedule.  
 Relief Wells  
 The first of two relief wells aiming to intercept and plug
the leak has reached more than 90 percent of its target depth
and detected the metal casing of the Macondo wellbore, London-
based BP said on June 25. The relief well is still slated to be
done in early August as BP enters the “delicate” phase of
testing to find the right spot to stop the leak, company
spokesman  David Nicholas  said by telephone yesterday.  
 Separately, BP said  Tony Hayward , who has come under fire
for his handling of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, doesn’t plan
to resign as chief executive officer.  
 Lamprell increased 4.9 percent to 226 pence. HSBC lifted
its recommendation to “overweight” from “neutral,” saying in
a note that the company is “set to benefit from expanded UAE
capacity as rig refurbishing activity improves.”  
 Fresnillo, the world’s largest primary silver producer,
gained 4.9 percent to 1,052 pence. Antofagasta, owner of copper
mines in Chile, climbed 2.5 percent to 848 pence.  Kazakhmys Plc ,
Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer, increased 1.9 percent to
1,087 pence.  
 RBS, Standard Chartered  
 Royal Bank of Scotland sank 2.3 percent to 43.45 pence.
Nomura kept a “reduce” recommendation on Britain’s biggest
government-owned bank while lifting its price estimate to 41
pence from 31 pence, saying it “views expectations of surplus
capital as overoptimistic and continues to see asset quality
risks.”  
 Nomura also said it prefers  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  and
upgraded the latter to “buy” from “reduce.” Lloyds gained
2.2 percent to 55.41 pence.  
 Standard Chartered Plc  slid 1.8 percent to 1,710 pence
after the British bank that earns most of its profit in Asia
said the European sovereign debt crisis caused a “softening”
of first-half revenue.  
 “Given that Standard Chartered is very much a growth
story, the overall interpretation of the disclosure is going to
be negative,” analyst  Andrew Lim  at Matrix Corporate Capital
LLP, which has a “buy” rating on the stock, wrote in an e-mail
to clients today.  
 Taylor Wimpey Plc  lost 2.5 percent to 29.7 pence. Britain’s
second-largest homebuilder by volume said first-half home sales
in the U.K. will probably decline to 4,650 from 4,702 a year
earlier. The update is “clearly cautious about shorter term
uncertainties,” BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research said in a
note today.  
 The following stocks also rose or fell in the U.K. and
Irish markets. Symbols are in parenthesis.  
 Allied Irish Banks Plc  (ALBK ID) gained 2.2 percent to 99.1
euro cents, ending a five-day loss. The bank plans to shortlist
bidders for its Polish unit Bank Zachodni WBK SA by mid-July and
complete the sale in September, Rzeczpospolita newspaper said,
citing unidentified people familiar with the transaction.  
 Connaught Plc  (CNT LN), a U.K. building-maintenance
company, sank to the lowest level since September 2005, falling
37 percent to 135 pence. Analysts at Numis Securities cut their
recommendation to “hold,” while Collins Stewart and Oriel
Securities cut their ratings to “sell.”  
 Connaught said June 25 that 31 of its social-housing
contracts would be affected by state spending cuts. There are
lingering concerns over Connaught’s ability to win new work,
Collins Stewart said.  
 EnCore Oil Plc  (EO/ LN) jumped 46 percent to 52 pence, the
highest level since May 2008. The British exploration company
may say this week that it has found an oil field containing as
much as 300 million barrels, the Sunday Times reported, without
saying where it obtained the information.  
 Go-Ahead Group Plc  (GOG LN) sank 4.4 percent to 1,116
pence, the lowest price since April last year. London’s biggest
bus operator had its recommendation cut to “neutral” from
“buy” at Nomura Holdings Inc. The brokerage cited the “London
bus market, which is suffering from lower pricing and pressure
on bonus payments.”  
 Meggitt Plc  (MGGT LN) advanced 2.8 percent to 318.7 pence
as Citigroup Inc. initiated coverage of the U.K. maker of
engine-monitoring systems for Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. with a
“buy” rating and a price estimate of 400 pence.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        