-- Banker's Grand Cru Bordeaux Tops Sand Hill Road in Wooing Technology Deals
-- Ryan Flinn
-- 2010-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/banker-s-grand-cru-bordeaux-tops-sand-hill-road-in-wooing-technology-deals.html

          
          
             Investment banker  Kelly Porter , who
has bought, sold and grown dozens of technology companies in
Silicon Valley, has an unusual way of finding his next deal: He
invites CEOs of startups to his $28 million  mansion  for dinner.  
 Porter, a managing director of  Woodside Capital Partners ,
plies executives with Grand Cru Bordeaux and invites them to a
pre-dinner chat in what he calls a sultan’s tent, next to a
swimming pool and antique bronze statue of Neptune.  
 His goal is to get ahead of the competition by networking
with young entrepreneurs before they’re scooped up by the big
bankers and venture capitalists on Sand Hill Road. At a time
when startups like Zynga Game Network Inc. can go from obscurity
to amassing billion-dollar valuations in months, Silicon Valley
deal makers are striving to find potential targets earlier.  
 “I want to know what’s happening in the market, what
people are interested in, what companies are doing,” said
Porter, 47. “There’s a unique opportunity to bring people
together in this setting that I don’t think you can do really
anywhere else. They’re not at a trade show, which is a big
massive thing, and you’re not at an office, which tends to be a
little more transactional.”  
 Porter, the son of  E*Trade Financial Corp.  founder  Bill Porter , specializes in advising digital media and entertainment
companies. He typically holds these dinners once or twice a
month, using his Los Altos Hills home as an attraction. Porter
has spent tens of millions restoring the house, a 1916 near-
replica of the Tudor-style  Speke Hall  in Liverpool, England.  
 Location Services  
 For an event on June 17, he invited entrepreneurs who run
location-based services for devices. The guests got a tour of
the mansion, including the wine cellar, a ceiling covered in
16th century Venetian paintings and a library filled completely
with Swedish leather-bound books.  
 Silicon Valley has moved beyond the old model of just using
the big venture capitalists to broker deals, said  Aaron Barnes ,
who attended the event.  
 “That dinner was a good example of what people need to do
today to stay relevant to the entrepreneurial pool,” said
Barnes, a senior vice president at  PlacePop Inc.  His company
runs an iPhone app that acts as a digital loyalty card. “People
have a lot of options now beyond Sand Hill Road.”  
 Porter isn’t alone in wooing startups outside of business
hours.  Gamiel Gran , a partner at Menlo Park-based firm Sierra
Ventures, says networking comprises about 85 percent of his job.  
 ‘It’s Huge’  
 “It’s absolutely helps the deal flow -- it’s huge,” he said.  
 Startups are getting by with less funding and relying more
on individuals to provide seed money. That means they stay out
of the spotlight longer. The size of the average venture round
has shrunk by half to $6.3 million since the dot-com bubble in
2000, according to the  National Venture Capital Association  in
Arlington, Virginia.  
 The attendees at Porter’s dinner included executives from
Brightkite, a site that allows group texting;  Quova Inc. , which
locates website visitors geographically; and  Skout , a dating
service.  
 “Kelly’s interested in meeting the movers and shakers in
technology he might not meet in the Valley,” said  Myles Weissleder , founder of SF New Tech, who organizes monthly
technology events in San Francisco. He picked the dinner’s
attendees.  
 Wine and Cheese  
 Guests arrive at the cobblestone driveway and are directed
through an arch separating the grand ballroom from the house to
the tent on the back lawn, where Porter greets them with wine
and cheese.  
 Woodside Capital, based in Palo Alto, helps oversee
transactions between companies. The firm advised ARC
International Plc on its $41 million sale to  Virage Logic Corp. 
in 2009, and Silicon Clocks on its buyout by Silicon
Laboratories Inc. in May of this year.  
 The guests at Porter’s dinners may need that same kind of
help in the future, he said. “Most of them are probably looking
to be acquired at some point.”  
 Porter was chairman and CEO of CatchTV Inc., an interactive
TV software company that was acquired by ACTV Inc. in 1999. He’s
worked with the boards of 17 companies, as either a director or
adviser. He’s also invested in 22 businesses as both a venture
capitalist and investment banker.  
 Porter makes his own predictions about the next big
technology deals. He has  forecast  that Cisco Systems Inc. could
acquire LinkedIn Corp., the professional-networking site, and
that Google Inc. might buy Roku Inc., a maker of audio and video
equipment.  
 Side Deals  
 The dinner also lets startups network with one another,
said  Kent Lindstrom , the founder of PlacePop and former CEO of
Friendster Inc. His company is now in discussions with
Brightkite and Skout about working together.  
 “We’re all just kind of sitting there doing deals,” he
said. “That concept, which would be called collusion in any
other industry, and yet here you all get together and share
ideas.”  
 Porter spent seven years restoring his estate to its
original glory. He wanted to make it a gathering place for
intelligent and well-connected people.  
 “I always wanted a place where I could bring people
together,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Venture capitalist Kelly Porter discusses technology with guests at his home in Los Altos, California. Photographer: Noah Berger/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Technology start-up executives gather in a sultan's tent outside the home of venture capitalist Kelly Porter in Los Altos, California. Photographer: Noah Berger/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Venture capitalist Kelly Porter listens to dinner guests at his home in Los Altos, California. Photographer: Noah Berger/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Christian Wiklund, founder and chief executive officer of Skout, arrives at the home of venture capitalist Kelly Porter in Los Altos, California. Photographer: Noah Berger/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Venture capitalist Kelly Porter discusses technology with dinner guests at his home in Los Altos, California. Photographer: Noah Berger/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Aaron Barnes, senior vice president with PlacePop, attends a dinner party at the home of venture capitalist Kelly Porter in Los Altos, California. Photographer: Noah Berger/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Kent Lindstrom, chief executive officer of PlacePop, attends a dinner party at the home of venture capitalist Kelly Porter in Los Altos, California. Photographer: Noah Berger/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Marie Alexander, CEO of Quova Inc.  
                       
                         
                           Noah Berger/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Marie Alexander, chief executive officer of Quova Inc., attends a dinner party at the home of venture capitalist Kelly Porter in Los Altos, California. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Marie Alexander, chief executive officer of Quova Inc., attends a dinner party at the home of venture capitalist Kelly Porter in Los Altos, California. Photographer: Noah Berger/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Jonathon Linner, founder and chief executive officer of Brightkite, attends a dinner party at the home of venture capitalist Kelly Porter in Los Altos, California. Photographer: Noah Berger/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Stanford University professor Andreas Weigend attends a dinner party at the home of venture capitalist Kelly Porter in Los Altos, California. Photographer: Noah Berger/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
