-- China's Stocks Fall for Fourth Day, Led by Shippers, Airlines; Banks Gain
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-28T07:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/bank-of-communications-air-china-citic-securities-china-equity-preview.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  declined for a fourth
day, sending the benchmark index to its longest losing streak in
two months, on concern a stronger yuan and flooding in the
southern region will slow economic growth.  
 Air China Ltd. , the largest international carrier, dropped
4.5 percent and China Shipping Container Lines Co. fell 1.6
percent on concern about the outlook for transport demand. China
Shenhua Energy Co. lost 1.5 percent as the government asked coal
producers to keep prices stable.  China Merchants Bank Co.  paced
gains among lenders on speculation Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd.’s initial public offering will be smaller than estimated.  
 “There is uncertainty over economic growth this year as
domestic and overseas demand may be hurt by tightening measures
and exchange-rate policies,” said  Wang Zheng , a fund manager at
Jingxi Investment Management Co. in Shanghai. “I am cautious
about the outlook for the stock market.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
the stock exchanges, slipped 17.54, or 0.7 percent, to 2,535.28
at the close, the longest losing streak since the six days ended
April 29. The  CSI 300 Index  lost 0.7 percent to 2,716.78.  
 The Shanghai gauge gained 1.6 percent last week after the
central bank said it will increase the flexibility of the
nation’s exchange rate. It has dropped 18 percent in the second
quarter, adding to a 23 percent decline this year, on concern
government measures to rein in housing prices and the European
debt crisis will damp economic growth.  
 President  Hu Jintao  called on Group of 20 leaders meeting
to coordinate policies to prevent the global economic recovery
from stalling. Countries should proceed with caution as they
exit from economic stimulus measures and seek sustainable fiscal
and monetary policies, Hu said.  
 ‘Very Serious’  
 A draft of the final statement provided to reporters said
the global recovery, which has been faster than expected,
remains fragile and uneven.  
 “The deeper impact of the global financial crisis has yet
to be overcome, and systemic and structural risks remain very
serious,” Hu said in prepared remarks at a G-20 summit in
Toronto yesterday.  
 Air China dropped 4.5 percent to 11.11 yuan. China Southern
Airlines Co., the biggest carrier by fleet size, lost 3.6
percent to 6.80 yuan. China Shipping Container, the second-
largest carrier of sea-cargo boxes, fell 1.6 percent to 3.64
yuan.  
 President  Barack Obama  said the U.S. expects China’s
currency to appreciate as the Chinese government allows more
flexibility and market forces take a bigger role in setting the
value. China’s decision to lift a two-year-old policy of pegging
the yuan to the U.S. dollar and allow its currency to trade more
freely was a first step and the U.S. will monitor progress over
the next “several months,” he said.  
 Export Concern  
 China’s pledge for a more flexible yuan will slow the
nation’s exports this year, adding to difficulties that include
the European debt crisis and rising costs, a Chinese official
with the Ministry of Commerce said.  
 “I’m not optimistic about the exports this year,” Yu
Jianhua, a Ministry of Commerce director general, told reporters
at the Group of 20 meetings in Toronto over the week-end. “It’s
essential for exporters to cut costs and keep their share in the
world trade market.”  
 The yuan gained 0.5 percent last week, the most since
December 2008. China indicated on June 19 that it was scrapping
the yuan’s peg to the dollar.  
 “External demand is still fragile and a stronger yuan may
slow exports in the second half,” said  Zhang Qi , an analyst at
Haitong Securities Co. in Shanghai.  
 Profit Estimates  
 Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co., voted China’s most
influential research unit by New Fortune magazine last year, cut
its profit growth forecast for domestically listed companies for
2010 to 24.3 percent from 25.1 percent and for next year to 17
percent from 20.4 percent, according to a report today.  
 At least 381 people have died in floods in southern China
this year and 143 others are missing, the Ministry of Water
Resources said yesterday, as the Jiujiang River flooded the most
in seven years.  
 Floods have caused an estimated economic loss of about 83.8
billion yuan ($12.3 billion) in 2010 and have displaced 4.66
million people, the ministry said on its website, citing the
Office of State Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters.  
 Shenhua dropped 1.5 percent to 23.15 yuan. China Coal
Energy Co., the nation’s second-largest coal producer, slid 1.6
percent to 9.06 yuan.  Datong Coal Industry Co. , the third-
biggest, slumped 6.1 percent to 30.87 yuan.  
 China’s coal companies have been ordered to keep prices of
the fuel stable as the country faces the “heavy” task of
managing inflation expectations, the National Development and
Reform Commission said in a statement on June 25 after the
market closed. The companies must not amend prices agreed on in
their annual supply contracts, the top economic planner said.  
 Agricultural Bank Pricing  
 Agricultural Bank of China set a price range for the
Shanghai part of its initial public offering that will allow it
to raise as much as $20.1 billion, according to three people
with knowledge of the matter.  
 “If IPO shares of the Agricultural Bank of China are
priced below 3 yuan, that will be positive for the stock market
as it raises less money than expected,” said Wang at Jingxi
Investment Management. “It will ease investors’ concerns about
frequent fundraising.”  
 Merchants Bank gained 1 percent to 13.52 yuan.  China Citic
Bank Corp. , the banking unit of the nation’s largest investment
company, added 2.3 percent to 5.82 yuan.  
 Taiwan is scheduled to sign its first trade treaty with
China tomorrow, strengthening commercial ties with the fastest
growing major economy and the island’s biggest trading partner
and investment destination.  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 Citic Securities Co.  (600030 CH), China’s biggest listed
brokerage, dropped 2.7 percent to 12.83 yuan. The brokerage said
it plans to sell a 51 percent stake in its wholly owned unit
China Asset Management Co.  
 Chongyi Zhangyuan Tungsten Industry Co.  (002378 CH) dropped
3.5 percent to 27.89 yuan, the lowest since May 20, after the
company said 8.6 million shares will become tradable on July 1.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editor:  Allen Wan   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        