-- Barrack Sees Neverland Redemption as Colony Fund Shows 60% Loss
-- Jonathan Keehner
-- 2010-06-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/barrack-seeking-redemption-in-neverland-after-a-colony-fund-shows-60-loss.html

          
          
             A red bicycle with an ice cream
cooler mounted in front is parked in the middle of an empty room
in an uninhabited mansion in the Santa Ynez Valley, about 120
miles northwest of Los Angeles. On the back of the cooler,
written in script, are the letters “MJJ.”  
 The bicycle, like the house and the 2,680 acres (1,085
hectares) it sits on, once belonged to  Michael Jackson , the pop
singer who died a year ago this month. It was a gift from
actress  Elizabeth Taylor , who celebrated her eighth marriage at
Jackson’s Neverland Ranch in 1991.  
 Neverland is now controlled by private-equity firm Colony
Capital LLC, whose chairman and founder,  Thomas J. Barrack Jr. ,
has a spread 5 miles (8 kilometers) away. Acquiring the ranch in
2008 by taking over a $23.5 million loan may seem like a tiny
investment for Barrack, who oversees a $30 billion empire that
includes a stake in Europe’s largest hotel company, buildings
from New York to Beijing and a Las Vegas casino operator that
filed for bankruptcy last year, Bloomberg Markets reports in its
August issue. That he bought it suggests the 63-year-old
billionaire, who got his start rummaging through the debris of
the 1980s savings and loan crisis, may be getting back to his
roots in distressed debt after gorging on leveraged buyouts.  
 “We’re always trying to find places that people haven’t
gone before,” Barrack says of his first distressed-celebrity
deal, sitting in Colony’s New York office on Madison Avenue,
above Barneys department store, dressed in jeans and a crisp
button-down shirt, his head cleanly shaven. “We’re going to
fight, scratch and claw our way to every cent of capital that we
can get back. We also know from history that the best funds come
out of an abyss like this.”  
 ‘Tough Emotionally’  
 Rising from the abyss is the biggest challenge facing
Barrack and other private-equity managers who spent a record
$1.6 trillion on buyouts from 2005 to 2007 before a credit
market crash led to the worst financial crisis in 70 years. Now,
firms need to persuade investors they have more to offer than
wanton dealmaking, piles of debt and meager results.  
 Megafunds managing more than $4.5 billion were the worst
performers of those tracked by London-based research firm Preqin
for the 12 months ended in July 2009, with an average loss of 31
percent of their value. Colony Investors VIII LP, a $4 billion
fund launched by Barrack in 2007, had paper losses of about 60
percent as of the first quarter.  
 “It’s tough emotionally,” says Barrack, whose firm has
delivered an average annual return of 21 percent since its
founding in 1991. “In 17 years, the investors have never
experienced something like this.”  
 Distressed Celebrities  
 For Barrack, getting out of the hole involves going back to
his playbook of pursuing unlikely deals, most of them involving
buying or restructuring debt -- including that of celebrities.
Earlier this year, he helped photographer  Annie Leibovitz , who
was facing the loss of four New York properties and the rights
to her work, by refinancing a $24 million loan.  
 “It’s a small part of the business, but it’s interesting
and lucrative because it’s complex,” Barrack says.  
 Lucrative would be a welcome development for Colony’s
investors, who have poured $10.6 billion into the Santa Monica,
California-based firm’s funds during the past decade, placing it
among the top 10 private-equity real estate companies in the
world, according to Preqin. Over that time, they’ve watched
Colony pursue ever-larger, highly leveraged and ultimately
unsustainable buyouts.  
 Station Casinos  
 Barrack’s biggest misstep was the $8.5 billion buyout in
2007 of  Station Casinos Inc. , which operates 18 casinos in
Nevada and is the largest U.S. gaming company to go bankrupt. In
New Jersey, the $2 billion Meadowlands Xanadu retail and
entertainment complex Colony acquired in 2006 -- “Xana-don’t,”
Barrack calls it -- sits empty and unfinished after one of
Colony’s lenders, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., went bankrupt
during construction.  
 “The question for private equity is, What do you want to
be when you grow up?” says Barrack, who was raised in Culver
City, California, the son of a Lebanese grocery store owner.
“Are you making money from investing or managing assets? That’s
the dilemma that everybody’s facing.”  
 It’s a predicament shared by a handful of elite managers,
many of whom Barrack has known for decades.  
 Starwood Capital Group LLC -- headed by  Barry Sternlicht ,
who competed with Barrack during the S&L crisis -- has raised
new private-equity funds, which will allow it to earn more
management fees and pursue buyouts.  
 TPG, Apollo  
 David Bonderman , who founded TPG Capital after working with
Barrack in the 1980s buying assets of failed thrifts for Texas
billionaire  Robert Bass , is doing smaller deals while adding
distressed-debt and credit funds.  
 Apollo Global Management LLC, which  Leon Black  started in
1990 after making his own fortune buying distressed debt, is
following  Blackstone Group LP  and KKR & Co. into businesses such
as capital markets as it prepares to tap equity markets through
a public offering.  
 All of them are becoming what  Colin Blaydon , director of
the Center for Private Equity and Entrepreneurship at Dartmouth
College’s Tuck School of Business in Hanover, New Hampshire,
calls “the new, broad-based asset managers.”  
 Barrack has chosen the opposite path, staying focused on
investing and keeping Colony closely held. He says he has given
up, at least for now, on the equity funds that drove the
leveraged-buyout boom, postponing a planned multibillion-dollar
fund in favor of raising a more modest distressed-debt pool and
floating a  real estate investment trust  that has tapped public
markets for $250 million.  
 Original Playbook  
 He’s also gone back to his original playbook with a
familiar partner, the U.S. government, pursuing deals to buy
loans with assistance from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
which has $37 billion of assets seized from failed banks. He has
already completed eight, including one in January in which
Colony bought a 40 percent stake in a company set up with the
FDIC to hold $1.02 billion of unpaid commercial real estate
loans for 22 cents cash on the dollar.  
 Barrack’s choices reflect idiosyncrasies that have defined
him personally and professionally. He says he got his work ethic
from his father, who would come home for dinner and then go back
to his store. His mother gave him a metaphor for his
personality.  
 “My mom had this idea that you could either be a miner or
a jeweler,” Barrack says. “A miner is going and digging one
sort of thing, but a jeweler is collecting and harvesting all
sorts of jewels.”  
 Saudi Arabia  
 Barrack, who went to Jesuit-run Loyola High School in Los
Angeles and to the University of Southern California, where he
earned a bachelor’s and a law degree, started harvesting jewels
soon after.  
 His first job, working with Herbert Kalmbach, former
President  Richard Nixon ’s personal attorney, led to an
assignment in Saudi Arabia helping construction company Fluor
Corp. negotiate a contract. He opted to stay for three years to
advise two sons of the Saudi king. After a stint in President
 Ronald Reagan ’s administration, he was recruited by Bass.  
 Barrack and Bonderman made so much money for Bass buying
the assets of some of the more than 740 thrifts that failed
during the S&L crisis, including those of Stockton, California-
based American Savings Bank, that the Texan gave each of them a
stake to get a private-equity firm off the ground.  
 Since founding Colony -- he named it after Malibu Colony,
the beachfront community where he was living at the time --
Barrack has collected other gems, including the  Chateau
Lascombes  vineyard in the Bordeaux region of France, the
colonial-era Raffles Hotel in Singapore, the Savoy Hotel in
London and the  Paris Saint-Germain  soccer team.  
 Rugby, Surfing  
 A love of athletics led Barrack to USC, where he talked his
way into a tryout with the football team. Trojans coach John
McKay watched him run a few patterns and then told him to go out
for rugby, which he did, playing varsity for three years and
touring with the national Eagles team.  
 At 6 feet 3 inches (1.9 meters) tall, he now cuts a trim
figure. He lifts weights for about an hour a day and runs or
spins on a stationary bicycle for another 30 to 60 minutes.  
 “Athletics has a lot to do with everyday life,” Barrack
says, sipping a cappuccino one evening in April in Toscanova, an
Italian restaurant in the Century City section of Los Angeles.
“I surf; I ride horses -- to stay on that edge.”  
 Keeping an edge has Barrack in almost perpetual motion. He
says he spends a week in Europe, a week in Asia and a week in
New York each month. He’s also in constant contact with his
 lieutenants , at all hours of the day, throwing out ideas.  
 “I drive them nuts,” he says. “I end up being the
information transfer element within the firm.”  
 Chairman’s Corner  
 Barrack posts his thoughts about investing on the
 Chairman’s Corner  of Colony’s website. After an April surfing
trip to Mexico’s Baja peninsula with two of his three sons, he
wrote a 4,300-word treatise that included 32 ethical and
business guidelines, including “Call your Mom often,” “Debt
is the new equity” and “Seek mispricings and inefficiencies --
stay away from crowds.”  
 Barrack’s current approach reflects some of those
principles. The firm is eyeing investments that aren’t the
typical targets of private-equity or real estate investors.  
 “He’s unconventional, and he’s looking where no one else
is,” says  Eli Broad , 77, the billionaire founder of KB Home who
was among Barrack’s first backers.  
 ‘Worst Investment Ever’  
 Barrack says Colony is focusing on smaller, unconventional
deals after getting caught up in leveraged buyouts.  
 “If you were to pick the hour, the minute that it could
have been the worst investment ever, it was,” he says of the
timing of his November 2007 Station Casinos buyout.  
 Colony joined brothers Frank and  Lorenzo Fertitta , part of
the family that founded the company as a bingo hall in 1976, in
making the deal, which valued Station at $8.5 billion. The
company filed for bankruptcy last July, with $6.5 billion of
debt, after failing to reach agreement with creditors.  
 “The LBO certainly couldn’t have occurred at a much worse
time than it did, immediately preceding the crash in the Las
Vegas market, which has gone on since the transaction,” says
 Grant Govertsen , a Las Vegas-based analyst at research firm
Union Gaming Group LLC.  
 Colony is currently backing two bids by the Fertittas, who
also own  Ultimate Fighting Championship , a mixed-martial-arts
league, to retain ownership of Station’s assets and allow the
company to exit bankruptcy by year’s end.  
 Meadowlands Xanadu  
 A Nevada judge will oversee an auction of most of the
casinos in early August, with the existing owners opening
bidding with $772 million of new equity. Five other casinos, the
company’s most profitable, would be taken over by the Fertittas,
Colony and their banks without an auction in exchange for a cash
payment and the cancellation of some debt.  
 Colony has also struggled with two Atlantic City, New
Jersey, casinos. One of its affiliated companies forfeited the
deed to Resorts Atlantic City, and another is in talks with
creditors after defaulting on a loan tied to the Atlantic City
Hilton.  
 The most glaring emblem of Colony’s miscalculations rises
800 feet above the New Jersey Turnpike, not far from the new
stadium for New York’s Giants and Jets football teams. It’s the
shell of an indoor ski slope, a main attraction at  Xanadu .  
 The 2.3 million-square-foot (214,000-square-meter) mall,
named after the summer capital of Mongolian emperor Kubla Khan,
was taken over by Colony and  Steven Mnuchin ’s Dune Capital
Management LP in 2006, after the original developer, Mills
Corp., ran out of money. It also features an indoor sky-diving
facility and a theater for live concerts.  
 Frozen Ski Lift  
 Plans called for visitors to be schussing down Xanadu’s ski
slope by mid-2009. The collapse of  Lehman  in September 2008
brought work to a halt seven months later.  
 On a visit in April, not a single worker could be seen.
Cardboard covered carpeted floors, and signs indicated where
retailers H&M, Forever 21 and Cabela’s have staked out stores.
The ski lift’s four-person chairs were frozen still.  
 “We had a great team together and started leasing,”
Barrack says. “Even the downturn was OK. What killed us is,
Lehman went broke. We never envisioned our bank going
bankrupt.”  
 One potential lifeline is developer  Stephen Ross ’s Related
Cos., which is in talks to partner with Colony on restarting
construction, leasing and raising fresh capital. Even if Barrack
can renegotiate the debt, it will be at least a year before
Xanadu can open.  
 Colony Compensation  
 Albatrosses such as Station and Xanadu have changed the
economics of the firm, since those projects are unlikely to
produce profits for investors, or for Colony, anytime soon. In
early 2009, Barrack scrapped Colony’s compensation plan and
replaced it with one that gives every employee, including those
charged with minding struggling investments, a chance to make
money.  
 “We’ve reset our targets,” Barrack says. “People need a
future to look forward to. They need an offense.”  
 None of that has dampened Barrack’s zeal for deals. Last
October, Colony joined General Atlantic LLC in an 18-day sprint
to buy First Republic Bank, a San Francisco-based firm that
caters to wealthy individuals, from  Bank of America Corp.   
 “It was just the most incredibly intense thing,” says
 Richard Nanula , a Colony principal and former chief financial
officer of Walt Disney Co. “We knew this was a wonderful bank,
not a troubled asset.”  
 First Republic  
 Barrack and Nanula, both banking clients of First Republic,
moved into gear after Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America signaled that talks with Carlyle Group had stalled. The
two men worked the phones to find other investors. In the end,
they agreed to pay about $1.85 billion for the bank.  
 Nanula also negotiated the deal with Leibovitz, after
getting an e-mail from his boss asking, “Can we help her?”
Leibovitz, who photographed  John Lennon  for the cover of Rolling
Stone magazine on the day of his death in 1980, was unable to
keep up on payments on a $24 million loan from Art Capital
Group, a New York firm that provides financing to artists and
that sued Leibovitz to seize her assets.  
 Nanula says he’s talking with Leibovitz about a national
tour to showcase her work. He says he envisions similar deals
with other celebrities.  
 “If all we did was one Neverland, or one Annie, it
wouldn’t make too much sense,” he says.  
 As for Neverland, Nanula says it will remain a Colony
asset, at least for now. Barrack has converted Jackson’s former
amusement park into a series of gardens and is renovating other
parts of the estate. He says he’ll sell it as the real estate
market recovers, possibly for more than $100 million.  
 Legion of Honor  
 In May, Barrack was in Paris to receive the French Legion
of Honor, the highest award bestowed by the government on
citizens and foreigners. About 120 people attended the ceremony
in an 18th-century building on the Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honore
near the Elysee Palace.  
 Gilles Pelisson , chief executive officer of  Accor SA , the
Paris-based hotelier that owns the Novotel and Motel 6 chains
and is 29 percent owned by Colony and its partners, was among
those looking on as a red-ribboned medal was pinned on Barrack’s
pinstriped suit.  
 Barrack has had a long and sometimes stormy relationship
with France since he first visited in his twenties. Colony
helped oust the previous CEO of Accor, as well as the top
executive at  Carrefour SA , the world’s second-largest retailer,
in which Barrack had invested. Two presidents of the firm’s
Paris soccer club were sacked in two years. Colony’s stakes in
Carrefour and Accor, which at one point had a $1 billion paper
loss, are getting close to parity, Barrack says.  
 ‘Passionate Relationship’  
 None of that stood in the way of the festivities. Barrack
was praised by a French deputy minister for establishing his
firm’s European headquarters in Paris rather than London and for
being “affable, accessible and enthusiastic.”  
 Speaking in French and English, Barrack talked about his
“passionate relationship” with France, comparing it to
“falling in love with a young girl.”  
 Then, after drinks and petits fours, he was gone -- heading
to Asia on his Gulfstream V early the next morning.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Neverland is now controlled by private-equity firm Colony Capital LLC, whose chairman and founder, Thomas J. Barrack Jr., has a spread 5 miles (8 kilometers) away. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Anastasia Haydulina reports on the $250 million generated by the estate of Michael Jackson in the year since his death, income that may clear some of the singer's debts and help sort out the imbroglio over Jackson’s former home Neverland. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Palace Station Hotel & Casino sits just miutes away from the Las Vegas Strip, Las Vegas, on May 3, 2010. Photographer: Jared McMillen/Bloomberg Markets via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Construction delayed at the Xanadu retail and entertainment venue at the Meadowlands Sports Complex in East Rutherford, New Jersey, on April 16, 2010. Photographer: Timothy Fadek/Bloomberg Markets via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
