-- Boeing Machinists Accept Contract Offer, Won't Strike at St. Louis Plant
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-06-27T18:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/boeing-machinists-accept-contract-offer-won-t-strike-at-st-louis-plant.html

          
          
             Boeing Co.  machinists at a St. Louis
fighter-jet plant won’t strike tomorrow after voting today to
accept a proposed contract that will put new workers in a
401(k)-style pension.  
 The four-and-a-half year contract was accepted by a vote of
1,237 to 838, two weeks after union members rejected the
contract.  
 “There will be no strike,” said Tom Pinski, a spokesman
for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers district 837. The  union  represents about 2,500
machinists. A strike would have halted production of F-15 and F-
18 jets.  
 The contract leaves in a place a Boeing proposal to put
workers hired after January 2012 into a 401(k)-style plan rather
than a defined benefit plan. The agreement calls for a 3 percent
wage increase in the second through fifth years, Pinski said.
The company removed language that would have dropped dependents’
medical coverage if an employee was on medical leave for more
than six months, he said.  
 “I’m not sure they were voting in favor of the 401(k)
plan, they were voting that Boeing would be adamant enough and
harsh enough that even if they went on strike they still would
not be able to retain a defined pension plan,” Pinski said.  
 Company Goals  
 Paul Guse , a spokesman for Chicago-based Boeing said the
company was pleased the union ratified the contract.  
 “When we began negotiations, our goal was to produce a
contract that recognizes both the significant contributions of
our employees and the competitive environment in which we must
compete to keep jobs here in St. Louis. This contract does
both,” Guse said in a statement on Boeing’s  website .  
 Boeing workers in Long Beach, California, who assemble C-17
military transport jets, went on a monthlong strike that ended
June 10 after objecting to proposed cuts to pension and medical
benefits.  
 Boeing, the second-largest U.S. defense contractor after
Lockheed Martin Corp., employed 157,100 workers at the end of
2009, according to the company’s annual report. Military
aircraft manufacturing represents 21 percent of the company’s
sales, according to a regulatory filing.  
 Boeing  gained $1.34, or 2 percent, to $68.77 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading on June 25. The shares have
climbed 27 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net .
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        