-- Bonds Gain in Best Year Since `05 as Rally May End
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-06-28T13:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/bond-market-returning-3-4-in-best-year-since-05-amid-concern-rally-over.html

          
          
             Global bond returns may have nowhere
to go but down after the best first half since 2005.  
 Investors who piled into Treasuries, bunds, gilts, and
Japanese bonds on concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
would derail global growth are finding the securities less
appealing with yields at about the lowest on record. The
emerging bearishness may be most apparent in the  $4.3 trillion-
a-day  market for U.S. Treasury repurchase agreements, where no
maturity commands a premium.  
 That’s a switch from a year earlier, when investors
resorted to paying interest to borrowers while lending cash just
to obtain Treasuries after the worst finance crisis since the
Great Depression. None of the securities are what traders call
on “special” in a sign that investors don’t expect Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis will curb the global economic recovery,
according to data from GovPX Inc., a unit of ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  
 “No one’s freaking out,” said  Jason Brady , a managing
director at Thornburg Investment Management in Santa Fe, New
Mexico, which oversees $59 billion. “It’s definitely a much
more situation normal indicator than what we saw a couple years
ago when it was a horror show. As we’ve gotten to lower yields
in Treasuries, they’ve gotten less interesting.”  
 Yield Forecasts  
 Treasury 10-year note yields, the benchmark for everything
from mortgages to corporate bonds, will climb to 3.74 percent by
year-end from 3.11 percent on June 25, based on a Bloomberg
survey of forecasters. That would imply a loss of about 3.26
percent as yields rise and note prices fall, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The 10-year note yielded 3.04 percent at 9:57 a.m. in New
York.  
 Higher yields are also forecast for German bunds, U.K.
gilts, Japanese bonds and debt from the rest of the Group of
Seven nations, separate surveys of economists and strategists by
Bloomberg News show.  
 Government debt is “our least-favored segment of the bond
market,” a team of strategists led by  Jeff Applegate , who
oversees about $1.8 trillion as chief investment officer for
Citi Global Wealth Management in New York, said last week in the
firm’s Global Investment Committee Monthly report for June. “We
expect to see higher yields once investor risk aversion recedes,
causing this sector of the bond market to underperform.”  
 Leading the Gains  
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note has returned 7.85
percent this year, including reinvested interest, leading global
government bonds to a gain of 3.36 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. That’s the best start since the
firm’s broadest sovereign debt index rose 3.77 percent in the
first half of 2005.  
 Sovereign debt yields dropped to 2.10 percent on average
last week, within 3 basis points of the low of 2.07 percent
reached on May 25, based on the firm’s Global Sovereign Broad
Market Plus Index. The gauge tracks 1,165 bonds with a market
value of $18.6 trillion.  
 Predicting higher yields has been a losing bet. At the
start of the year, the median estimate of 67 economists and
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for 10-year Treasury
rates to rise to 3.9 percent by now.  
 Instead, slower inflation, worsening government finances in
Europe and concern that Greece will default on its debt and send
the global economy into another recession led investors to seek
the safety of bonds issued by G-7 nations. The  MSCI World  Index
of stocks has fallen 7.44 percent this year.  
 Rate Outlook  
 Federal Reserve policy makers won’t raise interest rates
until the first quarter of next year, based on the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists this month.  
 After leaving its target rate for overnight loans between
banks in a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent on June 23,
the Fed said in a statement that “financial conditions have
become less supportive of economic growth on balance, largely
reflecting developments abroad.” It also reiterated that it
will keep rates low for an “extended period.”  
 “We need to really get some solid ground under us” before
central banks tighten monetary policy, said  David Ader , head of
government bond strategy at Stamford, Connecticut-based CRT
Capital Group LLC. “I don’t think people are willing to make
bets right now.”  
 Low yields are helping governments finance their budgets
deficits more cheaply. The administration of  President Barack Obama  spent $248.2 billion in interest expense in the first
eight months of fiscal 2010 ending Sept. 30, up 16 percent from
$214 billion in the same period of 2009 even though the amount
of market debt outstanding rose 23 percent to $7.96 trillion,
Treasury figures show.  
 German Growth  
 While reports last week showed housing sales in the U.S.
fell, other data indicate concern the economy will slow may be
overblown. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment increased to 76 for June, from 73.6 in May.  
 Germany’s  Ifo institute  in Munich said last week its
 business climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives,
increased to 101.8 from 101.5 in May. That’s the highest since
May 2008. Economists expected a decline to 101.2, according to
the median of 38 forecasts in a Bloomberg  survey .  
 Japan’s Cabinet Office said June 10 the nation’s  gross
domestic product  rose at an annualized 5 percent rate in the
three months ended March 31, the biggest gain since the second
quarter of 2009. The median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey of economists was for a 4.2 percent pace.  
 Diminishing Demand  
 Such data help explain why demand for Treasuries has
diminished in the repurchase agreement market.  
 That’s a switch from recent years when the debt was in such
high demand as credit markets froze that investors routinely
lent cash for next to nothing just to obtain the securities
through so-called repos, which securities firms use to finance
their holdings.  
 “There are very few specials out in the market and that’s
been the case for quite a while now,” said  Thomas Simons , a
money-market economist in New York at Jefferies & Co., one of
the 18 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “Around month-
end, quarter-end, and definitely year-end, they tend to heat up
in the last few days but it’s not like it used to be.”  
 The overnight repo rate on the current two-year Treasury,
the 0.625 percent coupon security, closed the same as the
general-collateral rate of 0.25 percent on June 25, according to
GovPX. A year earlier, the overnight rate was negative 0.05
percent, while the general-collateral rate was 0.05 percent.  
 German Bunds  
 German bonds gained 6.69 percent this year, poised for the
best first-half performance since 1995, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. The gains pushed the yield on the
10-year bund to 2.5 percent on June 8, the lowest since at least
January 1989, according to Bloomberg generic prices.  
 “We could see some calm return to the markets in coming
months,” said  Michiel de Bruin , who helps manage about $32
billion as head of European government bonds at the Dutch unit
of F&C Asset Management in Amsterdam. “I can’t really see
Treasury or bund yields falling much from current levels.”  
 Ten-year bund yields are forecast to rise from 2.61 percent
from 3.11 percent by the end of the year, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  
 In the U.K., where bonds have returned 5.62 percent since
December, 10-year yields will likely rise to 4.05 percent in six
months from 3.38 percent last week, a separate poll shows.  
 Japanese Bonds  
 Japan’s government bonds have handed investors a 1.5
percent return this year. Ten-year yields, which touched 1.16
percent on June 23, the lowest since Dec. 30, 2008, will climb
to 1.39 percent from 1.15 percent, another survey shows.  
 Not even a pledge by new Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
to restrict borrowing and overhaul the tax system will keep
yields from rising, according to  Shinji Nomura , chief debt
strategist in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc., a unit of
Japan’s third-largest banking group.  
 “Yields are too low to entice investors any longer,” he
said. “The economy continues to recover after hitting bottom.”  
 For many investors, riskier assets are just too attractive
to ignore after lagging behind bonds, regardless of what the
economy does, according to  Richard Schlanger , who helps invest
$18 billion in fixed-income securities as vice president at
Pioneer Investments in Boston.  
 “I would not want to be a buyer, a long term investor, of
10-year Treasuries at 3.09,” said Schlanger, a money manager at
the firm. “It’s just hard to believe we can continue to rally
in the Treasury market. Equities and commodities would be better
places to put your money.”  
 Schlanger forecasts 10-year Treasury yields may reach 3.5
percent this year as the economy improves.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Japan's Prime Minister Naoto Kan during the G20 in Toronto  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Japan’s government bonds have handed investors a 1.5 percent return this year. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Japan’s government bonds have handed investors a 1.5 percent return this year.  Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
