-- Bond Distress Rises as Goldman, JPMorgan Vary on Defaults: Credit Markets
-- John Detrixhe
-- 2010-06-28T15:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/bond-distress-rises-as-goldman-jpmorgan-vary-on-defaults-credit-markets.html

          
          
             The percentage of corporate bonds
considered in distress is at the highest in six months, a sign
debt investors expect the economy to slow and defaults to rise.  
 The number of speculative-grade companies worldwide with
yields at least 10 percentage points more than government bonds
climbed to 399 this month, or 16.7 percent of the total, the
highest share since December, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. The ratio compares with 9.2 percent on
April 30, which was the lowest since November 2007.  
 Junk bond sales slumped to a 15-month low in June amid
concern government efforts to control spiraling budget deficits
will hamper global growth and drive up borrowing costs for the
neediest borrowers. The 2010 default rate in the U.S. may jump
as high as 6 percent by year-end from 1.3 percent now, according
to analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 “The default driver will be a reversal of easy refinancing
conditions,” said  Charles Himmelberg , chief credit strategist
at Goldman Sachs in New York.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by high-yield credit
strategist  Peter Acciavatti  wrote June 25 that the default rate
will be 2 percent in 2010. The views are diverging as investors
weigh the effects of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and on
mounting concern the U.S. economy will tip back into recession.  
 ‘Macro Uncertainty’  
 “I could never have imagined this amount of macro
uncertainty,” said  Don Ross , who helps oversee $9.5 billion of
assets as global strategist for Cleveland-based Titanium Asset
Management Corp.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds rather than government debt is
poised to widen the most this quarter since 2008, prices of
 leveraged loans  are set to fall, emerging market debt spreads
are headed for their first quarterly increase since the final
three months of 2008 and asset-backed debt sales are slowing.  
 The gap in yields between corporate and government debt
ended last week at an average 195 basis points, or 1.95
percentage points, up from 149 at the end of March, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate
Index. The last time spreads widened as much was when they
expanded by 130 basis points to 489 in the final quarter of
2008, when  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  collapsed.  
 Index Yield  
 The yield on the index, which tracks 8,516 issues with a
par value of about $6 trillion, is 3.99 percent, little changed
from the end of March and down from 4.4 percent in December.  
 Returns on company bonds as measured by the Bank of America
index average 0.8 percent this month, following a loss of 0.4
percent in May. Year-to-date returns through last week total
4.46 percent, compared with a loss of 6.1 percent for the  MSCI
World Index  of stocks.  
 High-yield issuance globally has totaled $8.3 billion in
June following $8.6 billion in May, the least since March 2009,
compared with an average of $32.4 billion in the previous four
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Risk aversion remains elevated,” JPMorgan debt
strategists including  Srini Ramaswamy  in New York said in the
bank’s U.S. fixed-income report dated June 25. In terms of
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, “we are at an inflection point
with respect to the potential impact on U.S. economic growth,
which is likely to cause fixed income markets to remain highly
reactive to the tone of economic data,” they said.  
 The bank increased its year-end investment-grade spread
forecast to 150 basis points from 125.  
 U.S. Economy  
 The Commerce Department said June 25 that the U.S. economy
grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first quarter, less
than the 3 percent previously calculated, reflecting a smaller
gain in consumer spending and a bigger trade gap.  
 The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index , which tracks the
100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans,  rose 
0.02 cent to 88.81 cents on the dollar last week. The index has
lost 3.2 percent this quarter, after  gaining  4.7 percent in the
first three months of the year.  
 In emerging markets, relative yields widened the most last
week in more than a month. Spreads rose 12 basis points to 321
basis points, the biggest weekly increase since climbing 42
basis points in the period ended May 21, according to JPMorgan’s
Emerging Market Bond index. Spreads rose 3 basis points today to
324 basis points.  
 Yield Gap Rises  
 For the quarter, the gap in yields has risen 72 basis
points, the first increase since it widened 277 basis points in
the three months ended Dec. 31, 2008.  
 In the asset-backed market, U.S. supply will total about
$25 billion of bonds this quarter, down from $30 billion in the
first quarter, JPMorgan strategists estimate. They predict sales
will total $105 billion for the year.  
 Defaults on high-yield debt in the U.S. will drop to 2.7
percent by the end of the year, or as high as 5.8 percent under
a “pessimistic” economic scenario, from 7.9 percent in May,
Moody’s Investors Service said June 6. Standard & Poor’s
forecast on June 4 that the pace of defaults will decline to 5
percent, from 6.7 percent at the end of last month. The rate may
increase to 6.9 percent by 2011 under S&P’s pessimistic
scenario.  
 Goldman Sachs’s default forecast translates into about 58
defaults in the next two quarters, compared with 16 from January
through June, based on Moody’s data of 1,241 issuers.  
 Corporate Defaults  
 S&P said two global corporate issuers defaulted last week,
boosting the year-to-date 2010 tally to 41. By region, 29
issuers have defaulted in the U.S., two in Europe, four in the
emerging markets, and six in the other developed regions, such
as Australia, Canada, Japan, and New Zealand.  
 Distressed exchanges accounted for 13 defaults, while
Chapter 11 filings and missed interest or principal payments are
responsible for 11 each, according to S&P. Regulatory directives
and receiverships account for one each, and the remaining four
defaulted issuers are confidential, it said.  
 “Residual default risk beyond the one-year forecast
horizon could increase because of the significant overhang of
surviving leveraged corporate issuers,” S&P said in a June 25
report. “The substantial  decline  in risk premiums for lower-
rated borrowers and the return of what we view as questionable
practices and structures in some recent deals, such as raising
bond funds to pay out shareholder dividends or sponsors, further
raise flags that the optimism might be overdone.”  
 Junk Debt Returns  
 Speculative-grade debt has returned 0.09 percent this
quarter, the worst performance since losing 17.6 percent in the
final three months of 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II index. High-yield debt is
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  
 Yield spreads rose 8 basis points last week to 690 basis
points, up from an almost three-year low of 542 on April 26. The
current low default rate and wider spreads make the debt an
“excellent buying opportunity,” said  Ann Benjamin , Chicago-
based chief investment officer of leveraged asset management
strategies at Neuberger Berman LLC.  
 “It’s not like we’re back in the early 2000s when you have
over-levered companies with no cash flow,” said Benjamin, who
helps oversee $7.5 billion of high-yield bonds and $5 billion in
loans. “These are good companies with solid and predictable
cash flows.”  
 Incomes grew faster than spending in May, making it
possible for American households to simultaneously increase
savings and support the economic recovery. Consumer purchases
rose 0.2 percent, exceeding the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, after little change the prior month,
Commerce Department figures showed today.  Incomes  climbed 0.4
percent, and the savings rate increased to the highest level in
eight months.  
 Corporate profits  increased 8 percent in the first quarter,
the Commerce Department report on June 25 showed. Earnings were
up 34 percent from the same time last year, the biggest year-
over-year gain since 1984.  
 U.S. Jobs  
 Employment fell in June for the first time this year,
reflecting a drop in federal census workers as the decennial
population count began to wind down, economists said before a
report this week. Payrolls declined by 110,000 last month,
according to the median estimate of 51 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News ahead of a Labor Department report July 2.
Private employment, which excludes government jobs, rose for a
sixth consecutive month, the survey showed.  
 “It’s somewhat self-fulfilling, if the capital markets are
willing to finance you, you don’t default,” said  Tad Rivelle ,
head of fixed-income investment at Los Angeles-based TCW Group
Inc., which has $115 billion in assets under management. “In
the current environment, what seems to be uppermost in investors
consciousness is, are we headed for a double dip?”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Washington. Photographer: Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
