-- BP's Tony Hayward to Meet Putin Deputy in Moscow as Gulf Leak Costs Mount
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2010-06-28T08:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/bp-chief-hayward-said-to-meet-russia-s-sechin-this-week-to-assure-on-plans.html

          
          
             BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  will meet with Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin 
to discuss the British company’s operations in the country as it
struggles to contain the largest oil spill in U.S. history.  
 Hayward will meet with Sechin, who is also chairman of
state-run oil producer OAO Rosneft, at about 5 p.m. today in the
government headquarters in Moscow, said a Russian official
familiar with the matter who declined to be identified because
of state policy.  
 BP owns about 1.3 percent of Rosneft, a stake it pledged to
banks to raise funds for the costs of battling the spill in the
Gulf of Mexico, the Wall Street Journal reported. Hayward will
also visit Moscow-based TNK-BP, which accounts for about 25
percent of the London-based company’s output and reserves, two
people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg. They declined to
be identified because the visit is confidential.  
 “BP has a fabulous portfolio here,” Renaissance Capital
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Jennings  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Moscow today. “They have paid their
dues and built up credibility and experience,” Jennings said.
The commitment to Russia “will hold them in good stead at a
time when they have challenges in the U.S.”  
 Stock Plunge  
 BP has lost about 50 percent of its  market value  since the
April 20 explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig
that killed 11 crew members and triggered the spill. BP has
agreed to deposit $20 billion in an independent account to pay
for Gulf restoration and compensation claims. The direct costs
of the cleanup have reached $2.65 billion, BP said today.  
 The stock rose as much as 4.3 percent and was trading at
316.55 pence as of 9:40 a.m. in London.  
 Hayward wants to meet Russian leaders after missing the  St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum  earlier this month amid
efforts by BP to stanch the flow of crude in the Gulf of Mexico,
the people said.  
 “BP will need to assure the Russian side that the Gulf
spill won’t affect the company’s operations in Russia,” said
 Andrey Kryuchenkov , a strategist at VTB Capital in London.
“It’s guaranteed that there will be many questions from the
Russian side about safety and BP will be trying to convince them
that their operations will be maintained to the best standard.”  
 Sheila Williams , a spokeswoman for BP in London, declined
to comment on Hayward’s travel plans.  Nikolay Gorelov , a Moscow-
based spokesman at TNK-BP, wouldn’t comment on whether company
executives will meet Hayward.  
 KGB, Rosneft IPO  
 BP, which bought $1 billion of shares in Rosneft’s initial
public offering in 2006, has a joint venture with the Moscow-
based company to explore for oil and gas off Sakhalin Island,
which is north of Japan, and to survey for hydrocarbons in the
Arctic.  
 Sechin, an ex-KGB officer and an ally of Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin , said on June 17 that Russia would consider
buying BP’s stake in Rosneft, if offered.  David Peattie , BP’s
head in Russia, said a day later that the U.K. company didn’t
sell any shares in Rosneft and doesn’t plan to. Rosneft CEO
 Sergei Bogdanchikov  said this month that he doubts BP will need
to sell the shares and hasn’t consulted the company about a
possible sale.  
 BP owns half of  TNK-BP , Russia’s third-biggest crude
producer, with the rest owned by a group of billionaires. The
shareholders last year named  Maxim Barsky  to take over as TNK-BP
CEO from  Mikhail Fridman , one of the owners, in 2011. Barsky’s
nomination was part of a settlement of a shareholder battle two
years ago over the company’s management and strategy.  
 Robert Dudley , the former TNK-BP CEO who fled Russia in
2008 amid the dispute, is now in charge of the oil spill
response operations in the Gulf.  
 TNK-BP has generated more than $25 billion of net income
and distributed more than $20 billion in dividends since it was
set up in 2003, Hayward said in March 2009. The dividend policy
hasn’t changed,  Jonathan Muir , TNK-BP’s chief financial officer,
said on March 2 of this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BP CEO Tony Hayward will be in Moscow tomorrow and on June 29. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen Jennings, chief executive officer of Renaissance Capital, talks with Bloomberg's Ryan Chilcote about BP Plc's assets in Russia.
     Jennings, speaking in Moscow, also discusses U.S.-Russia relations and the outlook for the Mongolian economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
