-- BP Loses $22 Billion in Legacy of Share Buybacks
-- Jessica Resnick-Ault
-- 2010-06-28T15:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/bp-losing-21-billion-in-legacy-of-failed-buyback-during-oil-s-boom-years.html

          
          
             Add $22 billion and counting to the
loss for  BP Plc  from the Gulf of Mexico disaster.  
 The sum represents the hole after the 53 percent  plunge  in
BP shares since the Deepwater Horizon exploded and sank,
resulting in the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  BP  bought back
more than $37 billion of its stock in a bid to return money to
investors between 2005 and 2008. Those shares are now worth $15
billion, excluding dividends.  
 As Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  surveys the
company’s assets for sales to raise cash, BP’s treasury still
holds 1.86 billion shares, equivalent to a 10 percent stake
worth 5.7 billion pounds ($8.6 billion). Hayward should sell
shares to ease concern that BP’s  creditworthiness  is
deteriorating,  Alastair Syme , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in London, said last week.  
 “No one expected that this was going to happen and that
the shares would be decimated,” said  Philip Weiss , an analyst
with Argus Research Group in New York. “But it makes a case for
how buybacks can hurt a company.”  
 Because of the risks now associated with lending to BP, the
company would pay an extra $566 million a year in interest costs
to raise $10 billion in the  bond  market, compared with what it
would have needed to before the accident.  
 The average yield on BP’s bonds has surged to 607 basis
points, or 6.07 percentage points, more than benchmark rates,
from 41 basis points before the rig explosion on April 20,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  
 Toby Odone , a spokesman for BP, declined to comment on the
possibility of selling shares or on past buybacks.  
 Considerable Firepower  
 “We’ve got considerable firepower here to deal with any
costs as they accrue,” he said. “And we will go forward using
the tools that we have at hand to generate the funds to meet any
liabilities.” BP has about 1.9 billion shares in treasury, he
said.  
 BP agreed on June 16 to set up a $20 billion escrow fund to
be administered independently by  Kenneth R. Feinberg , the
Washington lawyer who also mediated disputes over compensation
from the 2001 terrorist attacks. Raymond James & Associates Inc.
has estimated that the spill may cost  BP  about $62.9 billion.  
 The stock  plunged to a 14-year low last week even after the
company said it could access $15 billion in cash and credit
lines. That’s on top of the $7.5 billion in future  dividends  BP
has scrapped and $10 billion in proposed asset sales. The shares
closed at 304.6 pence June 25, capping a ninth week of declines.  
 Embarrassed  
 “Lots of companies have been embarrassed by buybacks,”
said  Colin McLean , chief executive officer of SVM Asset
Management Ltd. in Edinburgh, which sold the last of its BP
shares this month. “Investors would rather see dividends. A lot
of shareholders would be critical about raising equity cash at
this level.”  
 BP rose 1.2 percent to 308.25 pence in London.  
 BP,  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and Royal Dutch Shell Plc reduced
share buybacks in the past few years in favor of dividends and
investments in new drilling. The increase in oil prices to a
record $147.27 a barrel in 2008 put more cash on their balance
sheets as countries from Venezuela to Russia restricted access
to oil reserves, creating a dilemma for companies looking to put
their cash to work.  
 “Buybacks should send a message that the company thinks
its shares are seriously undervalued,” said  Ivor Pether , an
analyst at Royal London Asset Management, which holds $9.2
billion in securities including  BP  shares. “They can also
reflect a limited range of good investment opportunities, which
is an issue facing the energy industry.”  
 Irrationally  
 Exxon reduced its number of shares outstanding to 4.7
billion last year from 6.1 billion in 2005. It held $166 million
of its own stock in treasury at the end of last year, the value
of which has dropped 12 percent, or $20 million, in 2010.  
 BP’s leak at its Macondo well illustrates the risk in
reducing a company’s cash cushion.  
 For some companies, buybacks are a standard way to allocate
cash and can be done “irrationally,” said Weiss. “Companies
would be better off not buying back shares when prices are
good,” he said.  
 BP  paid an average of $11.27 a share in buybacks since
2005. Its London-traded shares slipped as far as 296 pence
($4.41) on June 25, the lowest since August 1996.  
 BP shares have tumbled since the April 20 accident on the
Deepwater Horizon rig that killed 11 workers and started the
leak. With oil still spewing into the ocean, BP credit-default
swaps rose to a record 591.7 basis points last week, according
to CMA DataVision.  
 Potential Costs  
 Aside from the $20 billion escrow fund,  BP  has $5 billion
in cash, $5 billion in banking facilities and $5 billion in
standby credit lines, according to Odone.  
 The company has obtained a further $5 billion from banks,
according to two people familiar with the matter who declined to
be identified because the arrangements aren’t public.  
 All companies operating in the Gulf of Mexico may need to
rethink how to limit their liability and protect shareholders,
said  Ted Harper , who helps manage about $6.8 billion at Frost
Investment Advisors in Houston.  
 Sold Holdings  
 “It’s a pertinent question for all boards, how do they
address these risks going forward,” said Harper, whose dividend
value fund sold all of its BP holdings a few days after the
April 20 blowout because of uncertainty over the company’s
potential liabilities. “The bottom line is that they’re
probably not going to be able to direct as much cash to things
like share buybacks as they might have otherwise.”  
 Exxon , which spent $2 billion repurchasing shares in the
first quarter, and its peers may still generate cash beyond what
can reasonably be invested in new drilling campaigns and capital
spending, said  Douglas Ober , who manages $550 million as CEO of
Petroleum & Resources Corp. in Baltimore.  
 “They can’t put the money to work profitably in oil and
gas ventures, and so they return the money to shareholders,”
Ober said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
 Jessica Resnick-Ault  in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BP CEO Tony Hayward. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen Jennings, chief executive officer of Renaissance Capital, talks with Bloomberg's Ryan Chilcote about BP Plc's assets in Russia.
     Jennings, speaking in Moscow, also discusses U.S.-Russia relations and the outlook for the Mongolian economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BP loses$22 billion in legacy of buyback, cash need return  
                       
                         
                           Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Skandi Neptune offshore support vessel controls a remotely operated underwater vehicle at the site of the BP Plc Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Louisiana. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Skandi Neptune offshore support vessel controls a remotely operated underwater vehicle at the site of the BP Plc Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Louisiana. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
