-- BP Must Have Strong, Stable Future After Spill Costs, U.K.'s Osborne Says
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-27T16:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/bp-must-have-strong-stable-future-after-spill-costs-u-k-s-osborne-says.html

          
          
             U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said  BP Plc  needs to have a strong and stable
future after it meets the costs of plugging the biggest oil
spill in U.S. history, along with the cleanup and compensation.  
 The comments follow a meeting between U.S. President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  yesterday on the
sidelines of the Group of 20 meeting in Toronto in which both
leaders agreed on the need to safeguard the survival of the
company. Osborne said the need to fix the spill remains the top
priority and that BP’s senior management understands this.  
 “At the same time we have got to recognize the economic
importance of this company, not just to Britain but to the
United States,” Osborne said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television at the G-20 meetings today.  
 “We want BP to have a strong and stable future ahead and I
think everyone understands that,” he said.  
 Cameron said earlier this month that BP wants certainty
about the level of compensation it will have to pay over the oil
spill. The oil company has spent $2.35 billion to clean up oil
spewing into the Gulf, according to its website. The spill began
April 20 after an explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig.  
 “The immediate priority with BP is to cap this well and
stop the environmental damage that has been done and pay the
legitimate claims for compensation,” Osborne said. “I have
spoken to the chairman and the chief executive of BP. They well
understand this and their attention is focused.”  
 BP slumped to a 14-year low in London Stock Exchange
trading last week, closing at 304.60 pence ($4.59) last week.
The company has lost 54 percent of its market value since the
April 20 explosion.  
 BP  agreed this month to set aside $20 billion in an
independently managed account to cover cleanup costs and
compensation claims from people affected by the spill.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in Toronto  gvina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        