-- BP, Shell Evacuate Workers From Gulf of Mexico Oil Platforms on Storm Alex
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-06-27T21:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/bp-royal-dutch-shell-evacuate-non-essential-gulf-crews-over-storm-threat.html

          
          
             BP Plc  and Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
the biggest oil producers in the Gulf of Mexico, are evacuating
crews from some offshore platforms in the region as a safety
precaution because of Tropical Storm Alex.  
 BP removed non-essential workers from its Atlantis, Mad Dog
and Holstein oil-production platforms in the western part of the
Gulf, company spokesman  David Nicholas  said today by telephone
from Houston. He said output wasn’t affected. London-based BP’s
response to a record U.S. oil spill, located in northern and
eastern parts of the Gulf, also is unaffected.  
 Shell  evacuated 430 people and idled production from its
Auger and Brutus platforms, according to a statement on the
company’s website. Alex, the first named storm of the 2010
Atlantic hurricane season, weakened to a tropical depression
today as it moved across Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula.  
 Alex is forecast to regain strength after moving back out
over water, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in a
statement on its website. Mexico’s state oil company closed the
Cayo Arcas and Dos Bocas export terminals and the Isla del
Carmen and Campeche ports, the Merchant Marine said in a weather
bulletin posted today on its website.  
 BP, which is fighting the largest oil spill in U.S.
history, didn’t slow any response efforts because of the storm,
spokesman John Curry said. The  company  collected 7,160 barrels
of leaking oil and burned an additional 3,950 barrels of crude
and 24.6 million cubic feet of natural gas between noon and
midnight yesterday, according to BP’s website.  
 The amount of oil captured yesterday was reduced by a two-
hour stoppage on the Discoverer Enterprise after a fire alarm
went off, Curry said. The Discoverer Enterprise is a drillship
 BP  is using to collect oil it’s diverting from the leaking well
at the seafloor. The company is installing and testing a riser
for a third oil-collection vessel, Curry said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        