-- British Airways Strike Vote Postponed for Union to Consider New Pay Offer
-- James Lumley
-- 2010-06-27T14:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/british-airways-strike-postponed-for-union-to-consider-revised-pay-offer.html

          
          
             A trade union representing 12,000
flight attendants at  British Airways Plc  called off a strike
ballot scheduled for this week to consider a new offer on pay.  
 The airline, Europe’s third-biggest, made the offer on June
25 in an effort to prevent the resumption of strike action in a
17-month dispute over staffing levels and future wages.  
 Tony Woodley , secretary general of Unite, the union
representing the cabin crew, said the strike ballot would be
postponed in an interview broadcast on Sky News today.  
 It would be “suicidal and inexplicable” if the new offer
was not put to Unite members, Woodley said.  
 British Airways offered to increase allowances for existing
crew once new recruits join their ranks later this year, drop
plans to reduce benefits to fund higher staffing levels on some
flights, and lift salaries for two years starting in 2011.  
 The proposals didn’t address the removal of travel perks,
the suspension of strikers and the use of volunteer crews,
issues that Unite says must be resolved before a deal on a wider
cost-cutting plan can be made. Walkouts have forced British
Airways to ground flights on 22 days since March 20.  
 “We welcome this statement from the Unite leadership,”
British Airways said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe our
offer is fair and reasonable and provides a genuine opportunity
to end this dispute.”  
 ‘Certainly Not’  
 Woodley, speaking in an interview broadcast by the British
Broadcasting Corp., said today that he would “certainly not”
be recommending the offer to union members.  
 “If the company had been brave and stopped their
vindictiveness and put back on the travel for our people and for
their kids and for their families it would definitely be a
breakthrough but unfortunately they can’t find the will,” he
said.  
 He said he was consulting union members because the airline
had described the proposals as a “final offer.”  
 Liberal Democrat lawmaker  Vince Cable , now business
secretary in the coalition British government, said Unite’s
decision to postpone the ballot was “very good news and it’s
long overdue.”  
 “It’s very, very important that we get it resolved and
resolved quickly,” Cable said in an interview today on the
BBC’s  Andrew Marr  program.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        