-- British Financial Firms' Business Volumes Are Increasing, CBI Survey Says
-- Ambereen Choudhury
-- 2010-06-28T09:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/british-financial-firms-business-volumes-are-increasing-cbi-survey-says.html

          
          
             Almost two thirds of financial
services companies in the U.K. anticipate a rise in transaction
volumes for the coming quarter, the most positive result since
December 1993, according to a survey by the  Confederation of
British Industry  and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  
 Approximately 63 percent of those surveyed said they expect
the increase, driven by the banking, life insurance, securities
and investment management industries, according to today’s
report.  
 “In other encouraging signs, overall predictions for
customer demand are among the most positive seen in recent
years, marketing intentions are generally strong and recruitment
plans have returned to positive territory for the first time
since 2007,” according to the report.  
 British financial firms are recovering after the worst
recession since World War II ended in the final quarter of 2009,
following $544 billion in credit losses and writedowns among
U.K. and other European institutions.  
 “Firms hope that activity will strengthen over the coming
quarter and are now planning to expand their staff numbers,”
said  John Cridland , deputy director general of the CBI,
Britain’s biggest business lobby group.  
 Some London banks have started hiring staff to replace
employees cut during the credit crisis.  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc , the lender 41 percent-owned by the U.K. government, is
hiring more sales and trading staff, people familiar said in
April. Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second largest bank, has also
been adding merger bankers at its securities unit.  
 ‘Red Tape’  
 Still, a high proportion of those surveyed are “worried
about the impact of prospective regulation on their businesses
and many remain concerned that red tape will hamper growth
prospects in the year ahead,” the CBI’s Cridland said.  
 Governments are stepping up regulation of banks, forcing
them to curb riskier activities such as proprietary trading and
to hold more capital to prevent a repeat of the credit crisis.
In December, the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which
sets minimum standards for banks in 27 countries and
territories, proposed changes requiring financial firms hold
more and better-quality assets as a cushion against short-term
liquidity needs.  
 Firms are also “more worried about increased competition
within the sector, particularly from new entrants and from
overseas,” the CBI’s Cridland said.  
 The CBI and PricewaterhouseCoopers surveyed 73 banks,
building societies, investment managers and securities firms
between May 19 and June 2.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Gray, head of the U.K. financial services consulting practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, talks about its quarterly survey of the financial services industry.
     Almost two thirds of financial services companies in the U.K. anticipate a rise in business volumes for the coming quarter, the most positive result since December 1993, according to a survey by the Confederation of British Industry and PricewaterhouseCoopers. Gray speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
