-- Cable Says Liberal Democrats United Over U.K. Budget, Sees No Rebellion
-- Eddie Buckle
-- 2010-06-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/business-secretary-cable-says-liberal-democrats-united-over-u-k-budget.html

          
          
             U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable 
said members of his Liberal Democrat party, the junior partner
in the coalition government, won’t rebel over tax increases and
spending cuts in last week’s emergency budget.  
 “We’ve got a balanced package as it is, and we’re not
reopening it,” Cable said on BBC 1 television’s “Andrew Marr
Show” yesterday. “Liberal Democrats are behind the action
whether they’re on the backbenches or in the government.”  
 The  Independent on Sunday  newspaper reported that rebel
Liberal Democrat lawmakers were holding talks with members of
the opposition Labour Party on how to obstruct parts of the
budget, including an increase in value-added tax to 20 percent
from 17.5 percent.  
 Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg  opposed a VAT increase
during the campaign for the May 6 election before the party
formed a coalition with Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservatives. Two opinion polls yesterday showed a decline in
support for Clegg’s party following the budget.  
 In a further bid to cut welfare spending and narrow the
record 155 billion-pound ($233 billion)  budget deficit , Work and
Pensions Secretary  Iain Duncan Smith , a Conservative, said
yesterday the government is drawing up plans to provide
incentives for long-term unemployed people to move to areas
where there are jobs.  
 ‘Ghettos of Poverty’  
 “Under the last government, we created almost ghettos of
poverty, where people are static, unable to get work because
there isn’t any work there,” Duncan Smith said on Sky News
television. “They are stuck. So we have got two and three
generations of people unemployed.”  
 An ICM Research poll in the  Sunday Telegraph  newspaper
showed 16 percent of voters backing the Liberal Democrats, down
5 percentage points from before the June 22 budget. The support
for the Conservatives rose 2 points to 41 percent and climbed 4
points to 35 percent for Labour. Sixty percent of respondents
opposed the VAT increase, which is scheduled to take effect in
January.  
 A  YouGov Plc poll  for the Observer newspaper produced
similar findings. It also had the Liberal Democrats at 16
percent, with the Conservatives at 43 percent and Labour at 36
percent. Fifty-two percent disagreed with the higher VAT rate.  
 ICM interviewed 1,006 adults by telephone on June 23-24.
YouGov polled 2,038 people on June 24-25. No margins of error
were given.  
 ‘Profoundly Worried’  
 “Liberal Democrats are profoundly worried about this VAT
rise,” Labour leadership candidate  Ed Balls  told Sky News,
calling it a “crisis” for the party.  
 Cable and the Liberal Democrat chief secretary to the
Treasury,  Danny Alexander , defended the step.  
 “The country demands that we tackle this enormous problem
we’ve inherited,” Cable said.  
 Without the VAT increase, the government would have had to
make a further 12 billion pounds of spending reductions,
Alexander said on the “Politics Show” on BBC 1.  
 Plans to cut departmental budgets by 25 percent were
achievable, he said.  
 “Of course it’s going to be tough for a number of
departments,” he said. “But we want to ensure that the most
essential frontline services are protected as best we can, and
we can achieve that by finding savings across government,
pushing harder on things like welfare, on things like public-
sector pensions and pay and of course by looking at those things
which we think are not essential.”  
 ‘On Your Bike’  
 Under Duncan Smith’s plan, jobless people in rented local-
authority housing in areas of high  unemployment  might get top
priority for homes in areas where more jobs are available. He
said people in such accommodation were at a disadvantage to
homeowners, who could sell up and move.  
 Duncan Smith denied Labour Party accusations that people
would be forced to quit their homes after Balls said the
proposals were reminiscent of the “get on your bike”
philosophy toward the jobless espoused by  Norman Tebbit , a
Conservative employment secretary under  Margaret Thatcher .  
 “I grew up in the ‘30s with an unemployed father,’’ Tebbit
said in 1981. ‘‘He got on his bike and looked for work, and he
kept looking till he found it.’’  
 ‘‘On your bike and lose your home,’’ Balls said on Sky
News. ‘‘That seems to be profoundly unfair.’’  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eddie Buckle  in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        