-- McCain Says Obama Asks Petraeus to Support Unwinnable Afghanistan Strategy
-- Bill Schmick
-- 2010-06-27T14:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/mccain-says-obama-asks-petraeus-to-support-unwinnable-afghanistan-strategy.html

          
          
             Senator  John McCain  said President
 Barack Obama ’s plan to begin a drawdown in July 2011 of U.S.
forces in Afghanistan puts General  David Petraeus  in “an almost
untenable position.”  
 Petraeus, who Obama last week named to take command of
those forces, is being asked to support “a strategy that we
know can’t win,” McCain, of Arizona, said today on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” program. “General Petraeus is put in an almost
untenable position.”  
 The Armed Services Committee will hold a confirmation
hearing June 29 on Petraeus’s appointment. Committee Chairman
 Carl Levin , who supports it, said he hopes the committee will
vote that same day to forward the nomination to the full Senate.  
 The U.S. plans to reassess its strategy in December and
train enough  Afghan  soldiers and police to allow a drawdown to
begin in July 2011. That pullout date has drawn criticism from
Republicans, including McCain and  Lindsey Graham  of South
Carolina, also a member of the Armed Services Committee.  
 Graham, appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” said the
administration must “clarify” its plans for July 2011.  
 “If it is a goal, where we will all try to start
transferring power over to the Afghans, I’m ok with that,” he
said. “If it’s a date where people are going to begin to leave
no matter what, a predetermined withdrawal date, that in my mind
will doom the operation.”  
 Rolling Stone  
 Petraeus, who commands U.S. forces in the Middle East and
central Afghanistan, will lead a force of 142,000 U.S. and
allied troops who are in the midst of a possibly decisive
offensive to push the Taliban out of their heartland of Kandahar
Province in southern Afghanistan.  
 He will replace General  Stanley McChrystal , whom Obama
dismissed for remarks disparaging administration officials that
were published last week in Rolling Stone magazine.  
 The U.S. is completing the deployment of 30,000 additional
troops Obama authorized in December in an effort to halt the
Taliban resurgence that has increased deaths of U.S. and allied
soldiers to the fastest pace in the war, now nine years old and
the longest in U.S. history.  
 With a four-month-old offensive in the southern Helmand
town of Marjah stalled, the U.S. has delayed what it described
as a decisive drive in the neighboring Taliban heartland of
Kandahar.  
 “Obvious the effort in Marjah did not achieve” success,
and “the offensive in Kandahar has been delayed,” McCain said.
This “argues against setting a date certain” for drawing down
U.S. forces.  
 “I’m against a timetable,” McCain said. It leaves “our
troops on the ground in some ways confused about what the long-
term strategy will be” and the Taliban insurgents “think we’re
going to leave.”  
 “A fundamental of warfare is: You tell the enemy when
you’re leaving, they will wait,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bill Schmick  in Washington at 
 wschmick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        