-- Challenger Buys Commercial Property Debt as Lenders in Australia Retreat
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-06-27T23:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/challenger-buys-commercial-property-debt-as-lenders-in-australia-retreat.html

          
          
             Challenger Financial Services Group
Ltd.  plans to lend as much as A$1 billion ($872 million) to
Australian commercial property owners in the next year, seeking
to profit as other lenders retreat from the market.  
 The investment manager has already provided about A$500
million of debt secured by commercial, industrial and retail
buildings in the past six months, including helping companies
refinance commercial mortgage-backed bonds, head of fixed
interest  Bob Sahota  said in an interview in Sydney on June 24.  
 “The whole strategy is to take advantage of an area that’s
been deeply dislocated,” said Sahota, who helps manage A$4.5
billion. “We’ve found really good opportunities to be the guys
who turn up with a sizeable check and get better terms than
we’ve ever seen in return.”  
 The nation’s commercial real estate market remains weak,
with prices down by more than 40 percent from their early 2008
peak, the Reserve Bank of Australia  said  last month. Australian
banks plan to force property companies to sell billions of
dollars worth of commercial buildings to improve the quality of
loans on their books, the Australian Financial Review reported
June 17.  
 The four main Australian lenders, Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd., National Australia Bank Ltd., Commonwealth
Bank of Australia and Westpac Banking Corp., are
“overcommitted” to commercial property and some foreign banks
have cut their lending, leaving a gap in the market that
Challenger is looking to exploit, Sahota said.  
 There are A$2.4 billion of Australian commercial mortgage
notes due this year, according to Fitch Ratings.  
 Source of Funding  
 Standard & Poor’s said June 24 it may downgrade commercial
mortgage-backed notes sold by Becton Property Group, an
Australian developer, as the bonds are due on July 18 and the
company doesn’t have a committed source of funding to refinance
them.  
 Challenger, based in Sydney, lent A$250 million to a
 Goodman Group  fund last month to refinance maturing commercial
mortgage-backed securities, a regulatory filing shows. It was a
cornerstone investor in the Macquarie CountryWide Trust
refinancing deal which re-opened the Australian CMBS market in
September, winning an average yield of 450 basis points more
than the bank bill swap rate on its investment, Sahota said.  
 Australian investment-grade corporate bonds were paying an
average spread of 233 basis points more than similar maturity
government bonds at that time, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index.  
 Buffer Against Declines  
 Commercial property prices in Australia are likely to track
“sideways” rather than rallying, Sahota said. Challenger is
attracted to the investments because the size of the loans are
very conservative compared to the value of the underlying
assets, providing a buffer against any declines, he said.  
 Senior secured lending currently offers a better risk-
adjusted return than providing subordinated debt, according to
Sahota.  
 Direct investments in Australian commercial property paid a
1 percent return in the year to March according to the  Property
Council/IPD Australia Property Index , which tracks the
performance of 1,272 property investments with a total capital
value of A$98.4 billion.  
 Challenger has won a A$200 million mandate from pension
fund Australian Super to invest in real estate and leveraged
buyouts, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        