-- Obama Presses for Yuan to Gain `Significantly' as China Cites Export Risk
-- Hans Nichols
-- 2010-06-28T04:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/china-s-hu-jintao-says-group-of-20-must-coordinate-to-consolidate-recovery.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said he
expects to see a strengthening Chinese exchange rate, and China
warned its  exports  may be hurt by the change, underscoring the
risk for trade tensions to worsen this year.  
 “We do expect that as more and more market forces come to
bear, that given the enormous surpluses that China has
accumulated, that the renminbi is going to go up and it’s going
to go up significantly,” Obama said in Toronto following a
summit of the Group of 20. “We are going to be paying attention
over the next several months to make that determination.”  
 Obama is under pressure from U.S. lawmakers to ensure that
China follows through on its pledge this month to allow greater
flexibility in the renminbi, also known as the yuan. At the same
time, China’s policy makers are concerned that the strength of
the global recovery remains in doubt, giving them less incentive
to allow rapid gains in the currency.  
 “China’s announcement has bought China some time, but not
a whole lot of time,” said  Wang Tao , an economist at UBS AG in
Beijing. “As you have major economies suffering from high
unemployment rates, tension will rise.”  
 Non-deliverable yuan forwards rose 0.1 percent as of 12:17
p.m. in Hong Kong, indicating that the currency may gain about
1.8 percent against the dollar in the next year from today’s
rate of about 6.79. China’s officials last week allowed a 0.5
percent advance, the biggest increase since 2008.  
 More Flexibility  
 Policy makers June 19 said they’d allow greater fluctuation
after holding the currency about 6.83 from July 2008 to help
exporters. The yuan rose 21 percent the three prior years.  
 China’s President  Hu Jintao  called on his counterparts to
proceed with caution as they exit from stimulus measures,
reflecting his country’s concern about the dangers of the
European crisis and limited demand growth in advanced economies.  
 “The deeper impact of the global financial crisis has yet
to be overcome, and systemic and structural risks remain very
serious,” Hu said in prepared remarks to the weekend G-20
summit yesterday.  
 The shift to a more flexible yuan will slow Chinese exports
this year, adding to difficulties that include the European debt
crisis and rising costs,  Yu Jianhua , a Ministry of Commerce
director general, told reporters in Toronto two days ago.  
 “I’m not optimistic about exports this year,” Yu said.
“It’s essential for exporters to cut costs and keep their share
of the global trade market.”  
 Trade Gap  
 China’s trade surplus has dropped by “a big margin” since
the start of this year, Hu said in his speech. The narrowing of
the current account surplus has picked up speed, he said.  
 Chinese exports have so far weathered the European crisis,
with shipments abroad rising 48.5 percent in May from a year
before. The May trade surplus of $19.53 billion was the biggest
in seven months. U.S. government data show the  trade deficit 
with China reached $71 billion for the first four months of the
year, up 5.7 percent from the same period of 2009.  
 “An undervalued RMB has given China a significant trading
advantage,” Obama said yesterday at his closing press
conference in Toronto. “Will I have a clear idea after three
months as to whether it’s moving fast enough or not? I will
leave that up to Treasury Secretary Geithner,” he said,
referring to  Timothy F. Geithner .  
 Obama added that the U.S. “didn’t expect a 20 percent
revaluation in a week,” which would be disruptive to the
Chinese and global economies.  
 U.S. Legislation  
 U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, said
last week he’d move “shortly” to force a vote on legislation
to push China to raise the value of its currency. China’s
announcement that it would end a fixed peg of to the dollar
wouldn’t “placate” lawmakers, he said June 23 at a Senate
Finance Committee heating.  
 Schumer is sponsor of a bill that would let American
companies seek import duties to compensate for an undervalued
currency.  
 China, which is set to surpass Japan as the world’s second-
biggest economy this year, has taken measures to boost domestic
consumption in an effort to counter the international crisis,
according to Hu’s remarks.  
 Chinese officials reiterated on June 26 that yuan reform
was and should be determined by China’s economic fundamentals,
not foreign pressure.  
 Further changes to the yuan exchange-rate regime will help
China to restructure the economy, control inflation and avoid
asset price bubbles, said  Zhang Tao , head of the international
department at China’s central bank, on June 26.  
 Hu’s speech yesterday didn’t mention the yuan’s shift,
which was also left out of the G-20’s final statement. Canada’s
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said it’s common for countries not
to be singled out in statements, though that doesn’t lessen
China’s will to carry out the changes.  
 “I’m confident that China will fulfill this commitment,”
Harper said in the closing press conference.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irene Shen  in Toronto at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Toronto at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hu Jintao, China's president  
                       
                         
                           Norm Betts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Hu Jintao, China's president, poses during the Group of 20 family photo in Toronto. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Hu Jintao, China's president, poses during the Group of 20 family photo in Toronto. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Jacob Kirkegaard, a research fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the Group of 20 leaders' plan to cut deficits and pursue higher capital requirements for banks once their economic recoveries take root.
     Kirkegaard, speaking from Washington, also discusses the shift in China's currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
