-- China's `Henry Ford Moment' Is Both Good and Bad: William Pesek
-- William Pesek
-- 2010-06-27T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/china-s-henry-ford-moment-is-both-good-and-bad-william-pesek.html

          
          
             If these factory strikes continue,
China may have to go Communist.  
 It’s tempting to wonder which way China will go. Will it
side with demands for higher pay and let strikes broaden? Might
it clamp down on this budding Solidarity-style movement to
protect the all-important export machine? Or will workers
demand a true Communism -- not just one that abhors Google?  
 So far, China has taken the first path, going more the way
of capitalism than Communism. It raises the specter of a
“ Henry Ford  moment” in the most populous nation, with both
good and bad implications for the global economy.  
 First, the good news. China’s leaders are taking a page
from the industrialist who built  Ford Motor Co.  In 1914, Ford
doubled the average automaker’s wage to $5 a day. It made his
 Model T  more affordable to them and provided a model for a
stable workforce that formed the core of the U.S. middle class.  
 It’s a dynamic China needs more of, and signs are that
it’s spreading before our eyes. The positive domino effect it
unleashes would create a growing domestic market for products
factory workers produce. It would accelerate China’s shift from
exports to a consumer-led economy.  
 Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and  Nissan Motor Co .,
all targets of recent strikes, aren’t in China just to exploit
cheap labor. They’re there to tap the biggest market for
automobiles. They want to sell their products to their own
employees, a la Henry Ford.  
 It’s THE Market  
 All the chatter about foreign companies closing Chinese
factories and shifting production elsewhere misses the point.
China, for all its quirks and challenges, is THE car market of
the next 20 years. It makes no sense to build sedans or trucks
in  Vietnam  or Indonesia to sell in China. Foreign factories are
largely in China to stay.  
 The problem for manufacturers is that workers know it.
Average workers also don’t need access to Google Inc.’s
search engine to know that state-owned companies often treat
them better than foreign ones. Perhaps that’s why many of the
headline-grabbing walkouts have been among foreign operators.
And few workers are about to take on the Chinese state. The
risks for any  Lech Walesa  wannabe in China are clear enough.  
 Growing pains associated with this phenomenon will spread.
Foxconn Technology Group, the maker of Apple Inc.’s iPhones and
Hewlett-Packard Co.’s computers, has grappled with a spate of
worker suicides. The Taiwanese company can’t seem to up wages
fast enough to placate staff.  
 Wage Spikes  
 Corporate boardrooms the world over will need to adjust.
Big, unpredictable wage spikes on the world’s factory floor
will hit profitability and affect inflation rates globally.
While everyone knew this was coming, it’s arriving sooner than
many thought.  
 Now for the bad news: the environment. Anyone who’s
traveled to a major Chinese city recently knows the drill. Take
Shanghai. You get in the elevator of your hotel all excited
that you’ll have a bird’s eye view of what many consider to be
the current center of the world economy.  
 You walk into your room on the 50th, 60th or 80th floor of
the city’s latest architectural monstrosity and make a beeline
to the window. You pull back the curtains and what can you see?
Often, nothing. Massive clouds of smog and soot stand between
you and the nearly 20 million people below.  
 Pollution Woes  
 Cities and rivers are already plagued by pollution that
can only get worse as larger disposable incomes give Chinese
workers the itch to buy more Ipods, cars and houses. As factory
output grows unabated and more and more vehicles hit the roads,
China’s environmental challenge rises exponentially. Yes, China
is working on going green -- just not fast enough.  
 China vows to cut carbon emissions per unit of gross
domestic product by as much as 45 percent of 2005 levels by
2020. One of its key initiatives is promoting electric cars. A
trial program in five cities offers buyers as much as 50,000
yuan ($7,353) toward a plug-in hybrid or 60,000 yuan for a
fully battery-powered car.  
 This policy may do more environmental harm than good. As
much as 98 percent of electricity in China’s north, including
Beijing, was generated from coal last year. The upshot is that
carbon- and sulfur-dioxide emissions from electric vehicles
could exceed those from combustion-engine cars.  
 Choking on Growth  
 China has 1.3 billion people. The question is whether its
air is ready for 500 million vehicles churning out emissions.
The hope is that China’s leaders will prove as adept at keeping
growth on a sustainable path as they have navigating the global
crisis. It would be quite a feat.  
 Yes, China is run by very smart people, yet no
industrializing economy has avoided some kind of crisis. If you
are wondering what might slam China, runaway pollution deserves
a place at the top of the risk list.  
 Consumers coming into their own is a natural part of an
economy’s maturity, something Henry Ford showed America. In
China’s case, the ride could be a bumpy one.  
 ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg columnist William Pesek speaks from Tokyo with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the impact of labor disputes in China on the nation's economy.
     Widening labor unrest has forced auto parts makers to raise wages in China, increasing production costs for Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. Boosting salaries will help the government increase domestic consumption and move the economy away from a reliance on exports for growth. (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own. Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
