-- Crude Prices at `Comfortable' Level, OPEC Secretary General El-Badri Says
-- Fred Pals
-- 2010-06-27T19:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/crude-prices-at-comfortable-level-opec-secretary-general-el-badri-says.html

          
          
             OPEC, the producer of about 40
percent of the world’s oil, sees no need to change output levels
before the group meets again in October as the current price of
crude oil is “comfortable”.  
 “The economic recovery is sluggish, unemployment is still
high and the debt crisis is causing a lot of uncertainty, so if
you look at all these factors, the current price is
comfortable,” Secretary General  Abdalla El-Badri  told reporters
today in Brussels. “I don’t see any change in the production
and I don’t see a meeting coming before October,” he added.  
 OPEC announced a record limit on production in December
2008 as global demand collapsed. The group’s adherence to the
cut of 4.2 million barrels a day, capping output at 24.845
million, slipped as prices rebounded 78 percent last year. The
group is due to meet on Oct. 14 in Vienna.  
 The world is relying on consumers in China and the Middle
East to keep spending and maintain the global economic recovery
as the developed economies of the U.S. and Europe stagnate. The
International Energy Agency sees consumption from emerging
economies outside the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development accounting for 52 percent of the world’s oil use by
2015, compared with 47 percent this year.  
 El-Badri also called for better compliance with the quotas
by its members. “There is a lot of oil in the market and we
need better adherence to our production quota,” he added.
Compliance is seen at 53 percent and shouldn’t go lower, El-
Badri said.  
 Disrupt Production  
 Crude for August delivery increased $2.35 to settle at
$78.86 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange on June 25,
on concern the first tropical storm of the hurricane season may
disrupt production in the Gulf of Mexico. Saudi Arabian Oil
Minister  Ali al-Naimi , representing the group’s biggest
exporter, said on March 30 that he hoped prices would remain
within a range of $70 to $80.  
 The oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico could impact oil prices
in the long term if regulation becomes too strict and projects
get delayed or canceled, El-Badri said. Regulations in the
aftermath of the U.S.’s worst oil spill may delay global supply
by 900,000 barrels a day by 2015, including 300,000 barrels a
day from the Gulf of Mexico,  Fatih Birol , chief economist at the
IEA, said June 22 in London.  
 A six-month moratorium on U.S. deepwater drilling announced
by President  Barack Obama  last month will trim about 70,000
barrels a day from estimated 2011 oil production, according to
the U.S. Energy Department. “I am sure after the six months
that they will at least revisit the decision and try to let
things go back to normal,” El-Badri said.  
 Norway, the world’s sixth-largest crude supplier, has
suspended issuing new deepwater offshore drilling permits while
Russia has said it may tighten rules following the April 20
explosion at the BP-leased Deepwater Horizon rig. One-third of
the world’s oil supply comes from offshore projects, according
to the IEA.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Pals  in Brussels at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        