-- Dai-ichi Life Turns to Rock Venue for First Investor Meeting Since Listing
-- Tomoko Yamazaki
-- 2010-06-28T06:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/dai-ichi-life-turns-to-rock-venue-for-japan-s-biggest-shareholder-meeting.html

          
          
             Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co.  had to
find a venue big enough for rock concerts by acts like the
Smashing Pumpkins for its first investor meeting since selling
stock in the biggest initial public offering in two years.  
 About 3,100 of the 1.37 million shareholders attended the
 meeting  today at Makuhari Messe, outside Tokyo, said spokesman
 Makoto Atarashi . The company had been prepared for about 13,000.  
 “Given the potential size of the crowd, we had to look for
a rock concert-size venue,” Atarashi said.  
 The Tokyo-based insurer held its first shareholder meeting
after listing in April when it  switched  from mutual to stock-
based ownership. The company won investor  approval  to spend 10
billion yen ($112 million) for dividend payments and tap 10
billion yen in retained earnings to boost reserves.  
 The  company  declined to comment on the cost of holding the
meeting. Sending out invitations alone would have been at least
110 million yen, based on the 80 yen stamp cost, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  
 Makuhari Messe is a convention center that hosts events
including Japan’s Summer Sonic music  festival  and the Tokyo Game
Show.  
 Some of the 19 investors that spoke at the meeting today
complained about the declining stock price since listing. The
shares  fell  4.1 percent to close at 120,200 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange. That compares with the 140,000 yen IPO price.  
 Biggest Offer  
 The insurer raised 1.01 trillion yen this year in the
world’s largest IPO since San Francisco-based  Visa Inc.  sold
$19.7 billion in stock in March 2008.  
 The offering was the biggest in Japan since Tokyo-based NTT
DoCoMo Inc. went public in 1998, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 The company made the move to expand fundraising options for
acquisitions as economic growth in Japan compounds the problem
of an aging society and low birth rate.  
 Dai-ichi, the nation’s second-largest life insurer,
replaced Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. as Japan’s most
widely held stock after it listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net ;
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        