-- Dollar Gains Buckle as Strategists Draw Line at $1.20
-- Liz Capo McCormick
-- 2010-06-28T18:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/dollar-s-biggest-rally-since-91-buckles-as-strategists-draw-line-at-1-20.html

          
          
               John Taylor , who heads the world’s
largest hedge fund dedicated to currencies, predicted in March
that the dollar would appreciate to $1.20 per euro from about
$1.35 at the time. He was proven right two months later.  
 The chairman of FX Concepts LLC in New York now says the
greenback may be due for a respite after the trade-weighted
Dollar Index gained 9.57 percent from the end of 2009, its best
start to a year since 2005. Taylor is one of a growing number of
traders waiting for evidence that the European Union’s almost $1
trillion bailout plan isn’t working before pushing America’s
currency higher.  
 “We are scary, scary owners of euros,” said Taylor, whose
firm manages $7.5 billion. “We are keeping our fingers crossed
that maybe the euro’s appreciation lasts through July and into
August. But then the euro is just going to get crushed as it’s
an impossible situation in  Europe .”  
 Taylor has plenty of company. The median year-end estimate
of 27 strategists and economists surveyed by Bloomberg has held
at $1.20 since June 2, the longest stretch without an increase
this year. At the start of January, they predicted the dollar
would end 2010 at $1.45 to the euro.  
 The Dollar Index, which measures the currency against the
euro, yen, pound, Canadian dollar, Swiss franc and Swedish
krona, is down 3.1 percent since June 7 as concern eases that
Europe’s fiscal crisis will cause a nation to default.  
 ‘Status Quo’  
 “We will see a couple weeks to a few months of status quo
with not much happening,” said Peter Jacobson, managing
director in  Singapore  at Rhicon Currency Management Ltd., which
oversees $400 million. “Typically, the status quo is good for
risk, and if that’s the case we should see the rally in the
dollar that we saw for the first half of the year subside a
bit.”  
 Futures traders are unwinding record bets that the dollar
will rally. The number of contracts hedge funds and other large
speculators hold betting on a rise in the dollar versus a fall
against currencies traded at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
declined by 70 percent to 49,335 in the week ended June 22 from
the peak of 163,085 on June 8, according to Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  
 The dollar traded at $1.2289 per euro today and at 89.39
yen. The greenback has weakened after strengthening to $1.1877
per euro on June 7 from $1.4321 at the end of December. Of the
most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg, the only ones the
dollar hasn’t risen against this year are those of Japan,  Mexico ,  Canada  and Singapore.  
 ‘Fair Value’  
 “The euro at $1.20 is fair value, so we’ve taken away one
of the big arguments for why the euro will fall against the
dollar,” said  Richard Benson , who oversees $14 billion of
currency funds as an executive director of Millennium Asset
Management in London. “The other is that the  U.S. economy  will
do a lot better, but it hasn’t done much better. People are
worried about a double dip in the U.S.”  
 While Millennium has trades that would benefit from a
decline in the dollar, it reduced the size of those positions
“quite a lot,” Benson said in a telephone interview.  
 The Commerce Department in  Washington  said June 25 that the
U.S. economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first
quarter, less than its 3 percent estimate last month, reflecting
a smaller gain in  consumer spending  and a bigger  trade gap .  
 Federal Reserve policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 23 that the labor market is “improving
gradually,” while consumer spending “remains constrained” by
joblessness and “tight credit.” The recovery is “likely to be
moderate for a time,” the Fed said.  
 Growth Estimates  
 A successful bond sale by Spain and an agreement by EU
leaders to disclose how banks perform on stress tests have
tempered concern that nations will have trouble financing
themselves.  Spain  sold 3 billion euros ($3.7 billion) of 10-year
debt on June 17 to yield of 4.864 percent, below the 5.04
percent that the bonds traded at before the sale. Investors bid
for 1.89 times the amount offered.  
 The  European Central Bank  raised its euro-region growth
forecast for this year on June 10 to 1 percent, from a previous
estimate of 0.8 percent. It will grow about 1.2 percent in 2011,
the ECB predicted.  
 “If the data flow improves or just stabilizes, funds will
shift back into higher-yield and cyclical currencies,” said
John Normand, head of global-currency strategy at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in  London .  
 JPMorgan Forecasts  
 JPMorgan forecasts the dollar will end the year at $1.20
per euro, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It will
depreciate to 92 U.S. cents versus  Australia ’s currency and to
95 cents against the Canadian dollar, according to JPMorgan
estimates on Bloomberg.  
 The bank released the results of their second-quarter
survey of clients on June 25 showing that companies in the U.S.,
Europe and Japan expect the euro will remain depressed versus
the dollar for the remainder of 2010.  
 More than 90 percent of the 141 respondents, which have a
total market capitalization of $2 trillion, say the euro will
remain below $1.30 by the end of the year. The average forecast,
weighted by the size of the companies, fell to $1.22, from $1.34
in the March survey.  
 “The period we are in now is the euro’s swan song,” said
FX’s Taylor. The EU’s bailout package is making “people think
things are OK and maybe all will be alright. When the reality
hits us in September it will be miserable. I expect the euro to
go to $1 by the end of the year,” he said.  
 ECB Program  
 This week an ECB program to flood Europe’s financial system
with long-term funding to encourage lending and fight the worst
economic crisis since World War II ends. The central bank lent
442 billion euros in a June 2009 auction of one-year funds at a
fixed rate of 1 percent in its Long Term Refinancing Operation.
The ECB is still offering loans with a three-month program.  
 Billionaire investor  George Soros  said continental European
banks haven’t been “properly cleansed” after the credit crisis
because they haven’t marked the value of their holdings to
market prices.  
 “The current crisis is more a banking crisis than a fiscal
one,” Soros, 79, said in remarks prepared for a speech in
Berlin on June 23. “Bad assets haven’t been marked to market,
but are being held to maturity. When markets started to doubt
the creditworthiness of sovereign debt it was really the
solvency of the banking system that was brought into question
because banks were loaded with the bonds of the weaker countries
and these are now selling below par.”  
 ‘Heavy Lifting’  
 At this time in both 2008 and 2009, forecasters were
predicting average second-half gains of 1.4 percent for the
dollar versus 46 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. This year,
they see a 0.5 percent gain, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 “Risk is coming back into the market and the U.S. has to
do the heavy lifting with regard to economic growth,” said  Axel Merk , who oversees $500 million as president and chief
investment officer of Merk Investments LLC in  Palo Alto ,  California . “In that context, the commodity currencies do well
as do the European currencies.”  
 Canada’s dollar may appreciate to C$1 by year-end from
C$1.0345 today, while Australia’s will likely rise to 89 U.S.
cents, from 87.26 U.S. cents, separate surveys show.  
 The yen has been the biggest winner among the most-traded
currencies this year, strengthening 4.1 percent against the
dollar, followed by a 3.1 percent rise in the Mexican peso and
1.8 percent gain in Canada’s currency. The median estimate of
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg is for the yen to weaken to 97
by year-end.  
 The only currency to do worse than the euro is the Danish
krone, which is pegged to Europe’s common currency. It has
depreciated 14 percent. Norway’s krone is down 10 percent, while
Sweden’s krona has lost 7.7 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     FX Concepts Inc. CEO John Taylor pauses during a television interview in New York. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen Jennings, chief executive officer of Renaissance Capital, talks with Bloomberg's Ryan Chilcote about BP Plc's assets in Russia.
     Jennings, speaking in Moscow, also discusses U.S.-Russia relations and the outlook for the Mongolian economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Rennie, head of currency research at Westpac Banking Corp., talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis from Sydney about the outlook for China's economy.
     A Chinese government official said the nation’s pledge for a more flexible yuan will slow China's exports this year, adding to difficulties that include the European debt crisis and rising costs. Rennie also discusses the U.S. economy and global currency market. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
