-- Lebanon Speeds Push to Ratify Energy Law After Gas Discoveries Off Israel
-- Nayla Razzouk
-- 2010-06-27T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/lebanon-speeds-push-to-ratify-energy-law-after-gas-discoveries-off-israel.html

          
          
             Lebanese leaders are speeding up
efforts to ratify an energy law amid concern that Israel’s
offshore exploitation of natural gas could infringe on Lebanon’s
claim to gas in adjacent waters.  
 Parliament Speaker  Nabih Berri  convened a meeting of
parliamentary committees to discuss the issue on June 21. Berri
is the leader of the Shiite Muslim Amal movement, a close ally
of the anti-Israel movement Hezbollah.  
 “We need to move quickly, as Israel’s explorations are
fast approaching Lebanon’s waters, and we cannot sit and
watch,” Berri’s adviser Ali Hamdane said in a June 24 telephone
interview.  
 Berri said he would chair a new session on Monday at which
parliamentary committees could discuss details of the law and
the official bodies that are to oversee exploration. The draft
law must eventually go before parliament for ratification.  
 Large discoveries of gas off Israel’s Mediterranean coast
have sparked a debate between the neighboring countries over
their respective rights to energy resources in the area. While
Lebanon has not officially accused Israel of exploring for gas
outside its territorial waters, the issue has inflamed tensions
because the two states are technically at war.  
 Israel’s Minister of National Infrastructures  Uzi Landau 
warned on June 23 that his government was willing to use force
to protect its undersea gas finds .  
 U.S.-based  Noble Energy Inc . and Israeli companies have
announced two offshore gas discoveries in the past 18 months.
Noble has said the deposits may hold 24 trillion cubic feet of
gas: that would be twice the size of Britain’s proved gas
reserves in 2009, according the  CIA’s World Factbook .  
 ‘Exciting New Province’  
 Waters off Lebanon and the nearby island of Cyprus may
prove to be “an exciting new province for oil and gas,”
Norway-based Petroleum Geo-Services said in October in a
statement on its website.  
 Lebanese Energy Minister  Gebran Bassil  said on June 17 that
his government has warned Noble not to work near Lebanon’s
maritime economic zone. He said his country would not allow
Israel or a company working on its behalf “to take any amount
of our gas that is falling in our zone.”  
 The government drew up a draft energy law in 2007, with
help from Norwegian legal experts. Bassil said he hopes
parliament will ratify the oil and gas exploration law by the
end of the summer so the country can start seeking bids from
interested companies.  
 Hezbollah, which fought a war with Israel in 2006, urged
the law’s prompt adoption.  
 ‘Necessary Measures’  
 “The indicators and evidences which emanated from the
Zionist enemy concerning the hydrocarbon deposits in the water
basins show the need to speed up the necessary measures to help
benefit from such vital energy resources,” Hezbollah lawmakers
said in a statement on June 23.  
 Israel’s exploration for gas has aggravated divisions
within Lebanon, with the Hezbollah-led opposition accusing the
government of pro-Western Prime Minister  Saad Hariri  of
neglecting the country’s offshore energy potential. A meeting of
parliamentary committees on June 22 failed to make progress
toward ratifying the law because of disputes between the two
sides.  
 The opposition has pressed for progress. “There is
neglect,” said Hamdane, Berri’s adviser. “This issue has taken
much too long, the government has been studying this for several
years now, and this is not acceptable.”  
 Berri said he would chair the new session on Monday.  
 Revenue from any offshore gas finds could help Lebanon
finance its public debt, which totaled $52 billion at the end of
February, or about 147 percent of the country’s gross domestic
product.  
 “Lebanon also badly needs these vital resources because it
has a frightening debt which we are finding hard to repay,”
Hamdane said. “These resources are necessary to help a country
under tremendous social pressures, including unemployment and
immigration.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at
   nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        