-- Telstra Says Will Consider Acquisitions to Bolster Growth After NBN Deal
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-06-27T01:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/telstra-says-will-consider-acquisitions-to-bolster-growth-after-nbn-deal.html

          
          
             Telstra Corp. , Australia’s largest
telephone company, may consider acquisitions to bolster growth
after reaching agreement with the government’s NBN Co. on the
closure of its copper-wire network.  
 Acquisitions may include companies with experience in so-
called cloud computing, Chief Executive Officer  David Thodey 
said in an Australian Broadcasting Corp. interview televised
today. Cloud computing lets users access data and services on
external servers.  
 Telstra agreed June 20 to surrender its copper-wire
network and shift customers to the NBN fiber platform that will
be built during the next eight years, meeting government
demands it separate its fixed-line assets from the units that
sell to customers. The Melbourne-based company will receive
about A$11 billion ($9.5 billion) in compensation for the move,
which also avoids penalties including a ban on acquiring new
airwaves for next-generation mobile services.  
 “We’ll keep expanding our product portfolio out, but
there are new opportunities coming along that may provide
opportunities for us to do acquisitions,” Thodey said. “It’ll
be more about acquiring capability than sort of bolt-ons.”  
 The non-binding NBN agreement announced last week still
needs to be approved by Telstra’s 1.4 million  shareholders  and
regulators, with Thodey expecting to have a more detailed
proposal by the time of its annual investor meeting in November.  
 Telstra Shares  
 Telstra  shares  closed Friday at A$3.30 and have gained 2.2
percent since the agreement was announced. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 index fell 3.1 percent during the same period.  
 The agreement with NBN, which may cost as much as A$43
billion to build, gives the fiber company access to the
trenches and ducts that house the copper wires.  
 Thodey expects to lose market share in Australian fixed-
line services, which currently sits at about 76 percent as a
result of Telstra owning the only existing national network.  
 “As people migrate off copper to fiber it will be a very
competitive world and we probably wouldn’t hold 76 percent,”
he said.  
 Closing the copper-wire network will cause “cultural
change” at Telstra as more of its earnings come from retail
services, Thodey said. He plans to increase spending on sales
and marketing to win customers for phone, Internet and mobile
services.  
 “We’ve got to re-orientate it to the customers, we’ve got
to find ways to delight customers and that’s what we are going
to focus on,” Thodey said. “I don’t underestimate this, it
will probably take another three, four, five years, but it’s
another stage for the company.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        