-- England's Capello Says He Won't Resign After Defeat, Will Meet With F.A.
-- Christopher Elser
-- 2010-06-27T17:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/england-s-capello-says-he-won-t-resign-after-defeat-will-meet-with-f-a-.html

          
          
             Fabio Capello  said he won’t resign
as England soccer manager after today’s 4-1 World Cup defeat to
Germany. He’ll seek a meeting with the Football Association to
discuss his future.  
 The 64-year-old Italian, when asked if he plans to quit,
said “absolutely no.” Capello, appointed in December 2007,
told reporters he “needs to consider everything” after today’s
round-of-16 loss in Bloemfontein, South Africa.  
 Capello promised last week that England would be able to
reach the tournament’s July 11 final even after starting with
two ties and a win, scoring two goals in three games.  
 The team, featuring Premier League players such as  Steven Gerrard  and Frank Lampard, wasn’t able to keep up with a
younger, livelier German side. It was forced to take on the
three-time champion after finishing second behind the U.S. in a
group it was expected to dominate.  
 England became unsettled at the start of the competition,
when the U.S. was able to achieve a 1-1 tie on a goalkeeping
error from Robert Green. Capello’s team then drew 0-0 with
Algeria, causing defender and former captain John Terry to say
the players would give the manager frank advice during a
previously scheduled meeting.  
 The Italian dismissed Terry comments as a “very big
mistake.”  
 Contract Amended  
 On June 2, Capello signed an amended contract to keep him
as manager through the end of the 2012 European Championship.  
 Capello and the F.A. both removed their break clause
options that could have been exercised after the World Cup. He
had been linked with the vacant coaching job at Inter Milan
following  Jose Mourinho ’s departure for Real Madrid.  
 England qualified for the World Cup with two games to
spare. Capello took over after a 3-2 defeat to Croatia in
November 2007 led to the firing of  Steve McClaren  as England
failed to qualify for the 2008 European Championship.  
 Capello earns 6 million pounds ($9 million) a year,
according to U.K. media reports. The F.A. had set a minimum
target of reaching the World Cup semifinals.  
 He has worked at AC Milan, Real Madrid, AS Roma and
Juventus, winning nine League titles in Italy and Spain as well
as lifting the European Cup with Milan in 1994.  
 Capello was a midfielder with Roma, Juventus and Milan,
winning 32 caps for Italy. He began his coaching career with
Milan, and took charge of the first team in 1991. He brought
four Serie A titles in five seasons and won the European Cup
with a 4-0 final victory over Barcelona in 1994.  
 Capello is 7-4 to quit before the end of the week, with
Fulham manager Roy Hodgson the 5-2 favorite to replace him,
according to U.K. bookmaker Ladbrokes.  
 That means a successful $4 bet on Capello’s departure will
bring in $7 plus the original wager.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Johannesburg at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        