-- England Players Blame Technical Failings, Not Bad Call, for World Cup Exit
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-27T22:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/england-players-blame-technical-failings-not-bad-call-for-world-cup-exit.html

          
          
             England’s  players and coach  Fabio Capello  couldn’t agree on the cause of their 4-1 loss to
Germany, their worst-ever World Cup defeat.  
 Squad members including  Joe Cole  said a bad call that cost
them an equalizing goal wasn’t to blame. Capello, who had a
disagreement with former captain  John Terry  after failure to win
the first two games, said the goal changed the match.  
 The Uruguayan officials missed midfielder  Frank Lampard’s 
shot crossing the line after it bounced down from the crossbar.
They waved play on, leaving the score 2-1. Germany scored two
more times on counter-attacks as England pressed for a tying
goal in Bloemfontein, South Africa.  
 “These things happen in football but I think the better
side won over the 90 minutes,” midfielder Joe Cole said. “My
personal opinion is English footballers, maybe when it comes to
the international level, we are a little lower technically than
the other nations.”  
 England’s squad, which featured Premier League players
including  Wayne Rooney ,  Steven Gerrard  and Frank Lampard, won
only once in four games in South Africa. The team tied the U.S.
in its opening game on June 12 before being jeered off the field
following a 0-0 draw with Algeria six days later. It scraped
through to the second phase after a 1-0 victory over Slovenia in
the last Group C match.  
 “We just never got going in this tournament,” Cole said.  
 Two-Goal Lead  
 Goals from  Miroslav Klose  and  Lukas Podolski  helped Germany
take a two-goal lead.  Matthew Upson  got a goal back, and once
Lampard’s goal wasn’t given, Germany closed out the game with
two second-half strikes from 20-year-old striker Thomas Mueller.  
 Referee Jorge Larrionda walked off the field at halftime to
a chorus of boos. Former England captain  David Beckham  waited
for the Uruguayan and motioned with his hands how far he thought
Lampard’s shot had traveled beyond Manuel Neuer’s goal line.  
 “The game would probably be different after this goal,”
England coach Fabio Capello complained. “After this moment
Germany would have had to play different.”  
 The former AC Milan and Real Madrid coach, paid 6 million
pounds ($9 million) a year, was asked five times if he would
give up his role with England. He said he needed to speak with
the Football Association before a decision is made. “Everything
is possible,” he said.  
 It was the first time the two nations have met at a World
Cup since 1990, when Germany took their semifinals on penalty
kicks before winning a third title.  
 “Everybody from the management down needs to look at
themselves and ask why did this happen,”  Trevor Steven , who
played in that match, said in an interview.  
 Premier League  
 The Premier League, the world’s richest and most viewed
domestic league, has gained popularity for the speed at which
its matches are played. Steven and Cole said that may be the
problem.  
 “We overrate our footballers,” Steven said. “They are
not technically a good team because the demands of the Premier
League mean the type of football is not suited to the
international game.”  
 Cole agreed, saying England struggles in big matches.  
 “The style of play is what we’ve been brought up with and
maybe it doesn’t work at international level,” he said.  
 Germany has finished higher than England at every World Cup
since losing a final in 1966 that was dominated by another
controversial line call. With the teams tied 2-2, Azerbaijani
linesman Tofik Bakhramov ruled that a shot from  Geoff Hurst  that
bounced down from the bar had crossed the line. England went on
to win the game 4-2.  
 Man of the match Mueller said his team knew the ball was
over the line yesterday.  
 “That was a bit of luck,” he said. “We knew we had to
seize the opportunity with both hands, now that we got the
stroke of luck, and we did.”  
 Coach Joachim Loew has assembled Germany’s youngest World
Cup squad since 1934, with an average age of 24.9. Only North
Korea and Ghana had younger rosters among the 32 competing
teams. England’s team was about four years older, the oldest
English roster to participate in the quadrennial event.  
 “They were very young and I must say they were successful
with coping with the pressure,” Loew said of his team.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at the Free State Stadium in Bloemfontein at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       England players blame talent for World Cup exit  
                       
                         
                           Paul Ellis/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         England's coach Fabio Capello looks on during the 2010 World Cup round of 16 football match England versus Germany at Free State Stadium in Mangaung/Bloemfontein. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     England's coach Fabio Capello looks on during the 2010 World Cup round of 16 football match England versus Germany at Free State Stadium in Mangaung/Bloemfontein. Photographer: Paul Ellis/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
