-- Flood-Hit Albertinum Reopens With Deluge-Proof Depot in Dresden
-- Catherine Hickley
-- 2010-06-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/flood-hit-albertinum-reopens-with-deluge-proof-depot-in-dresden.html

          
          
             The Elbe flood in 2002 produced some
indelible images:  
 Dresden, suddenly looking like Venice, its baroque palaces
partially submerged.  Gerhard Schroeder , in the throes of
campaigning for his second term as German chancellor, wading
through town in gumboots. Curators working against the clock to
rescue priceless pictures from sodden museum cellars.  
 One of those museums was the  Albertinum , which evolved from
a former customs house built in the 16th century near the river.
Over the years, it housed Canaletto’s cityscapes, Vermeer’s
interiors, August the Strong’s bejeweled treasures, Degas’s
dancers, sculpture from antiquity and Egyptian mummies.  
 At the height of the 2002 floods, pumps emptied water at
the rate of 7,000 liters a minute as paintings were rescued. The
Albertinum reopened to the public this month after a six-year
refurbishment, that Dieter Roth, the general director of
Dresden’s art collections, described with biblical panache as
“conceived in need, born in a deluge.”  
 The Albertinum needed a new art storage depot before the
floods. After, the situation became urgent. And the new depot is
about as flood-proof as you can get. Forget cellars -- together
with workshops for restoration, it hangs in the sky, 17 meters
above the museum. Designed by the architect Volker Staab, it’s a
bridge construction that spans a courtyard, creating an interior
space beneath that is supplied with daylight via skylights.  
 It’s another step toward Dresden regaining its former glory
as a city fit for kings, dukes and princes. World War II
firebombing destroyed the center in February 1945.  
 Rebuilding, Reopening  
 It was only in 2005 that the Frauenkirche, reduced to a
heap of rubble, was reconsecrated after an 11-year rebuilding.
In 2006, the city reopened the Historic Green Vault, the
treasure chamber of the Saxon elector August the Strong.  
 The Albertinum now houses paintings and sculpture from the
Romantic era to the present, with the emphasis on artists with
bonds to Dresden. If that sounds parochial, bear in mind that
artists with ties to the region include  Caspar David Friedrich ,
 Otto Dix ,  Oskar Kokoschka , the Bruecke group of expressionists,
 Gerhard Richter ,  Georg Baselitz  and A. R. Penck.  
 There is also a  Gustav Klimt  painting of woodland, an early
 Claude Monet  painting of a jar of peaches, an  Edouard Manet 
portrait of a sitting woman, a wall full of  Max Liebermann 
paintings and a series by Max Slevogt painted in Egypt. Dix’s
“War Triptych,” with its mutilated figures and desolate
landscapes, occupies one wall.  
 Baselitz, Richter  
 Baselitz and Richter, who each have rooms devoted to their
work, helped win the 51 million euros ($63 million) needed to
finance the Albertinum’s renovation.  
 They organized a sale and contributed paintings. That
auction reaped 3.4 million euros; enough to persuade the state
of Saxony and federal government to fund the rest. One bidder
paid 3 million euros for a Richter painting, and then lent it to
the Albertinum on permanent loan.  
 The sculpture collection, on the ground floor, includes the
most comprehensive selection of Rodin statues in Germany, a
Degas ballet dancer, Wilhelm Lehmbruck’s “Kneeling Woman” as
well as works by  Henry Moore ,  Tony Cragg  and Per Kirkeby.  
 For more information, go to  http://www.skdmuseum.de/en .  
 To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Dresden at  chickley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Albertinum in Dresden, Germany, is shown in his aerial photograph taken before the museum's reopening. The building was damaged when the Elbe flooded in 2002 and has been given a new roof space for storage of art in case of emergency. Source: Staatliche Kunstsammlungen Dresden via Bloomberg News.  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The new roof space of the Albertinum museum in Dresden, Germany, is shown in this photograph taken before the building's reopening in June, 2010. A new bridge above the museum, designed by the architect Volker Staab, has storage space and skylights. Source: Staatliche Kunstsammlungen Dresden via Bloomberg News.  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The new courtyard of the Albertinum in Dresden, Germany, opened in June, 2010 after a $63 million refurbishment. The courtyard has been enclosed with the museum's storage area now built above it. Source: Staatliche Kunstsammlungen Dresden via Bloomberg News.  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
