-- Police Arrest 224 G-20 Protesters in Toronto to Stem Repeat of Violence
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-06-27T21:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/g-20-protests-may-continue-after-police-cars-are-burned-windows-smashed.html

          
          
             Police arrested 224 people on the
last day of the Group of 20 summit in Toronto to stem a repeat
of yesterday’s violence when protesters smashed windows and set
police cars on fire.  
 The total number detained since June 18 was 562, said Tim
Garland, a spokesman with the Integrated Security Unit. Today’s
arrests included people at the University of Toronto carrying
“street-style weapons” such as bricks, rocks and golf balls,
Constable Wendy Drummond said in a separate telephone interview.  
 One protest held outside a detention center set up for the
summit was dispersed after riot police rushed the crowd and
fired smoke-emitting projectiles, Canadian Press reported.  
 Protesters clashed with police, set fire to at least four
cars and spray-painted obscenities in the city’s financial
district yesterday after five days of largely peaceful rallies
to coincide with the G-20 and Group of Eight summits this week
in Canada.  
 Disruptive protests have been a feature of high-profile
meetings of world leaders since riots broke out in Seattle at
the World Trade Organization talks in 1999. Police clashed with
demonstrators in Pittsburgh at the G-20 summit in September and
arrested 83, according to  The Associated Press . Confrontations
led to 111 arrests during the 2009 G-20 summit in London.  
 Black Clothing  
 Toronto police stopped people wearing black approaching
Queen’s Park, the site of Ontario’s provincial legislature, and
demanded to see identification, searching some by patting them
down. One man was arrested and taken to a detention center.  
 Jennifer Booth, the man’s girlfriend, said they were
stopped after taking pictures of a bicycle protest.  
 “They mentioned something about wearing black,” Booth
said of the police officers. “Well, that’s my wardrobe.”  
 The man was arrested for carrying a Swiss Army knife, Booth
said. She declined to identify the man, saying she didn’t have
his permission to do so.  
 “I’m really upset,” she said. “There’s a lot of abuse of
police powers.”  
 At least five rallies were scheduled in Canada’s most
populous city today, including a prayer vigil and the bike
rally, according to the  website  of the “G8/G20 Toronto
Community Mobilization,” which coordinates some of the protest
groups.  
 Diverse Groups  
 The Toronto G-20 rallies have attracted groups ranging from
the Falun Gong, Greenpeace and supporters of Sri Lanka’s Tamil
Tigers. The diverse groups have urged action on everything from
poverty, the environment and indigenous rights.  
 The violence “ruins it for everyone else,” said Mary
Chon, 43, a Toronto resident who was part of yesterday’s
protests. “It ruins the hard work we’re all trying to do.”  
 The violence began yesterday after demonstrators met at
Queen’s Park, site of the Ontario legislature, and marched south
toward the downtown security zone that encircles the G-20 venue
at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre. Police estimated the
crowd at 4,000, according to CP24 television.  
 “The thugs that prompted violence” represent in “no way
shape or form the Canadian way of life,”  Dimitri Soudas , a
spokesman for Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 Smashed Windows  
 Demonstrators smashed windows at the  Bank of Montreal  and
 Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce  headquarters, whose windows
were boarded up today, as well as branches of Toronto-Dominion
Bank, Bank of Nova Scotia. Protesters also threw rocks at
stores, causing damage at shops including a Starbucks Corp.
location and a  Rogers Communications Inc.  store.  
 “People brought golf balls to throw through windows,”
Toronto Mayor  David Miller  said in an interview on CP24
television. “That’s not coming to express your opinion about
abortion or climate change, or anything else. That’s a
deliberate act; that’s not acceptable.”  
 A 12-block section of central Toronto is surrounded by
concrete barriers and three-meter (10-foot) high metal fencing
to protect the G-20 participants.  
 The protected area is part of the country’s largest-ever
security operation. Canada is spending as much as C$1.2 billion
($1.16 billion) for the meetings, including C$930 million on
security.  
 No serious injuries had been reported as of this morning,
the Integrated Security Unit said today in a statement. Six
people and eight police officers had been treated for “minor
injuries” since yesterday.  
 The security fence hasn’t been breached, according to the
 Integrated Security Unit , which coordinates local and federal
police forces.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Schneider  in Toronto at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A police car burns after G20 protesters smashed their way through the streets of downtown Toronto on June 26, 2010. Photographer: Simon Hayter/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
