-- G-20 Leaders Agree to Tackle Deficits Once Economic Recoveries Are Assured
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-06-27T21:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/g-20-may-stress-need-to-cut-deficits-as-leaders-split-on-urgency-of-target.html

          
          
             Group of 20 leaders endorsed targets
to cut  deficits  and agreed to pursue higher capital requirements
for banks once their economic recoveries take root.  
 Advanced economies will aim to at least halve deficits by
2013 and stabilize their debt-to-output ratios by 2016,
according to a statement released as leaders finished meeting in
Toronto today. The G-20 said banks need to raise capital
“significantly” and countries will be allowed to phase in new
rules, with a goal of meeting new standards by the end of 2012.  
 “Honestly, this is more than I expected, because it is
quite specific,” German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said,
referring to the fiscal targets. “It’s a success that
industrialized countries as a group accepted this.”  
 The G-20 also pledged to maintain existing stimulus plans
and take “concerted actions” to sustain the recovery. Recent
events highlight the need to establish “properly phased” plans
to rein in deficits. Emerging market economies pledged to take
measures to strengthen social safety nets, raise infrastructure
spending and enhance exchange rate flexibility.  
 The statement includes targets championed by Canadian Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper , who sought to narrow differences
between the U.S. and Europe by proposing minimum deficit and
debt reduction goals.  
 Bridge the Gap  
 The G-20 had to bridge a gap between leaders such as
President  Barack Obama  who want to focus on growth and officials
such as Merkel who favor budget cuts. The statement says the
global recovery, which has been faster than expected, remains
“uneven and fragile.”  
 Efforts to lower deficits and sustain the recovery will be
differentiated and tailored to national circumstances, according
to the statement.  
 “Here is the tightrope we must walk,” Harper told the G-
20 leaders in his opening remarks today. “To sustain the
recovery, it is imperative that we follow through on existing
stimulus plans. At the same time, advanced countries must send a
clear message that as our stimulus plans expire, we will focus
on getting our fiscal houses in order.”  
 Countries such as Brazil had opposed the specific deficit
targets, saying it will be hard for some G-20 members to meet
them without stifling economic growth.  
 Draconian, Difficult  
 “It is draconian, a little difficult, a little
exaggerated,” said Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega .
“Some countries would not be able to do it. It is clear that a
cut is needed, but at what velocity? It can’t be too fast.”  
 The agreement effectively endorsed the austerity plan set
out by the U.K., while acknowledging U.S. concerns that
countries shouldn’t be required to start cutting public spending
until their own recoveries are fully entrenched.  
 “There is a risk that synchronized fiscal adjustment
across several major economies could adversely impact the
recovery,” the statement said.  
 The G-20, which accounts for about 85 percent of the global
economy, replaced the G-8 last year as the world’s foremost
international policy-coordinating forum. The larger group means
developed and emerging economies are trying to find common
ground amid differences in prosperity that vary from the U.S.’s
$46,400 in  GDP per capita  to India’s $3,100.  
 Same Direction  
 European nations have led the charge on the deficits.
Merkel said in an interview with ZDF television that she lobbied
her counterparts at the G-8 meeting to pursue “solid” fiscal
policies and defended her own plan to reduce Germany’s budget  
deficit  by about 10 billion euros ($12.4 billion) per year.  
 U.S. Treasuries are having their best year since 1995,
returning 5 percent through June 24, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data, as investors seek alternatives
to Europe, where Greece and Spain had their credit ratings
downgraded.  
 “European countries just had a near-death experience over
Greece,” said  Tony Fratto , a former Treasury and White House
official under former President George W. Bush. “Some are
 afraid of suffering the same fate.”  
 The G-20 said banks need to raise capital “significantly”
to avoid a repeat of the global financial crisis. Banks will be
allowed to phase in capital increases, with a goal of meeting
new standards by the end of 2012, according to the statement.  
 The G-20 statement also calls for “a single set of high
quality” accounting standards and executive pay rules. The
leaders agreed on the need to improve oversight of hedge funds,
credit rating companies and over-the-counter derivatives “in an
internationally consistent and non-discriminatory way.”  
 On the issue of trade, the G-20 leaders said they would
renew their commitment to avoid increasing or raising new
barriers to trade until the end of 2013.  
 Outside the fence that surrounds the meeting, protests
turned violent for a second day. Yesterday, protesters set fire
to cars; others threw rocks at the windows of First Canadian
Place, headquarters of the  Bank of Montreal , and spray-painted
“Bomb the banks” on the building.  
 Toronto police have made 224 arrests today, said Tim
Garland, a spokesman with the Integrated Security Unit.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristin Jensen  in Toronto at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net 
 Theophilos Argitis  in Toronto at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     German Chancellor Angela Merkel lobbied her counterparts at a G-8 meeting to pursue "solid" fiscal policies. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Jacob Kirkegaard, a research fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the Group of 20 leaders' plan to cut deficits and pursue higher capital requirements for banks once their economic recoveries take root.
     Kirkegaard, speaking from Washington, also discusses the shift in China's currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
