-- G-20 Nations Call for `Significantly' Higher Bank Capital to Avert Crisis
-- Doug Alexander
-- 2010-06-27T19:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/g-20-nations-calls-for-significantly-higher-bank-capital-to-avert-crisis.html

          
          
             The Group of 20 countries said banks
need to raise capital “significantly higher” in order to avoid
a repeat of the global financial crisis, while giving lenders
more flexibility to implement the changes.  
 Countries should adopt the new standards by the end of
2012, and banks will be allowed to phase in capital increases
during a transition period, according to a draft of the G-20
statement sent to reporters today in Toronto.  
 Banks will have to increase common equity as a percentage
of their so-called Tier 1 capital to allow them to withstand
another crisis without significant government support, the
statement said. The capital increases can be phased in over a
timeframe that respects each country’s circumstances, and is
“consistent with sustained recovery and limits market
disruption.”  
 “The financial crisis has imposed huge costs,” the G-20
statement said. “This must not be allowed to happen again.”  
 Leaders said they will seek final agreement at a summit in
Seoul in November when the  Basel Committee of Banking and
Supervision , made up of international central bankers, will
propose a road map.  
 Global leaders supported the Basel committee’s work to
consider the role of contingent capital to help banks shore up
their finances. Contingent capital, which has the backing of
Canada, is subordinated debt and preferred shares sold by
lenders that may be converted to capital in the event of a
crisis.  
 December Deadline  
 The Basel committee is racing against a December deadline
set by G-20 nations, and banks faced with raising what UBS AG
estimates may be $375 billion of fresh capital are appealing to
nationalist sentiments to ease the pain.  
 Within the G-20, the U.S. was pushing for stricter new
capital rules while European governments sought a phasing-in
period. Banks provide about 75 percent of financing to the
economy in Europe, while 70 percent of lending in the U.S. comes
from markets rather than from banks.  
 The current round of changes, informally known as Basel
III, was spurred by G-20 leaders who urged the committee to
improve the quantity and quality of bank capital, strengthen
liquidity requirements and discourage excessive leverage.  
 The 36-year-old Basel committee, which sets international
capital standards for banks, is rewriting those rules after the
worst financial crisis in more than 70 years. An earlier
revision, known as Basel II and initiated by lenders in the late
1990s during an era of deregulation, failed to prevent the
collapse of European banks that adopted it.  
 Higher Capital  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  urged their counterparts to join the push for higher
capital requirements. This effort gained momentum after American
lawmakers agreed last week on legislation to overhaul the U.S.
financial system.  
 G-20 didn’t support the implementation of a bank tax, which
has the backing of countries including the U.K.  
 “We recognized that there are a range of policy
approaches” to ensure the financial sector pays for any
government bailouts, the statement said. “Some countries are
pursuing a financial levy. Other countries are pursuing
different approaches.”  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama poses during the Group of 20 family photo in Toronto on June 27, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
