-- Gaza Juice Maker Seeks Protection as Israel Relaxes Blockade
-- Saud Abu Ramadan
-- 2010-06-27T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/gaza-juice-maker-asks-protection-from-creditors-as-israel-relaxes-blockade.html

          
          
             Israel’s blockade of the Hamas-ruled
Gaza Strip has been a bonanza for  Palestine Food Industries Co. ,
the only functioning juice maker in the Gaza Strip, with sales
increasing ten-fold as the embargo kept out competition.  
 Now, as Israel relaxes its restrictions, the company has
joined fellow manufacturers including Pepsi-Cola bottlers Yazegi
Group in demanding that Hamas protect local industries and
refuse imports of juice, soda and snack foods. Officials of the
Islamic movement have heeded the calls and are barring entry of
such items as Israeli grapefruit juice and potato chips.  
 “The policy of the government is to protect and maintain
local products and industry and employ a large number of workers
who have no job due to the siege,”  Ziad Zaza , the Hamas economy
minister, said in an e-mailed response to questions about the
restrictions on Israeli goods.  
 Israel has been under increased international pressure to
relax its blockade since its May 31 commando raid on a flotilla
of aid ships to Gaza left nine Turkish pro-Palestinian activists
dead.  
 The embargo led to smuggling via tunnels dug under the
Egyptian border, making the production of goods more expensive
as smugglers’ charges and Hamas taxes on the passages increased
costs.  
 “The quality is low but the prices are very high,” said
Omar Shaban, director of  Pal-Think , an economic research
institute in Gaza City.  
 Fresh Fruit Shortage  
 The Israeli government said June 20 it will loosen the
blockade so that all food will be let in and only weapons and
items that have a military use are kept out. Israel closed its
border with Gaza and restricted imports after Hamas seized full
control of the coastal enclave in 2007 following a violent
struggle with the secular Fatah movement, once its partner in a
power-sharing arrangement.  
 Human rights groups including  Amnesty International  say the
embargo has devastated local industries and caused widespread
suffering. Israeli officials have said there is no humanitarian
crisis in Gaza.  
 The blockade initially made it difficult for Gaza City-
based Palestine Food, which is owned by the Palestinian
Authority’s  Palestine Investment Fund , to get fresh fruit to
make its drinks. The company, which largely produced citrus
concentrates for juice production before the blockade -- 90
percent of which were exported -- changed its formula after
access to foreign markets was cut.  
 “We diluted it with water and added sugar and flavoring,”
said Haytham Qannan, the juice factory’s procurement manager.
“It tasted good and sold very well.”  
 Rival Drinks  
 The company now produces Tropica-brand grapefruit and
orange drinks, which have less fruit content. Palestine Food
also started producing a line of Frouta jams, Lamooni lemon
juice and Tamtam ketchup after Israel imposed restrictions.  
 The company’s revenue grew to $1.8 million in 2009 from
$145,780 in 2006, Qannan said. Staff has quadrupled since 2006
to 65. The company’s $16-million plant was donated by the
government of Italy.  
 If Hamas allows Israeli juice to enter Gaza, Palestine Food
will have to compete with Primor juices made by  Gan Shmuel  Food
Industries Ltd., based on the Gan Shmuel kibbutz south of Haifa,
and the Tapuzina-brand produced by closely held Jafora Tabori
Ltd., based in Rehovot, near Tel Aviv.  
 Gaza City-based  Yazegi Group’s  Pepsi factory published
newspaper ads calling on Hamas not to allow rival soft drinks
into Gaza, according to its director Rajab al-Ghazali. Al-Awda
Factories Co., which makes cookies and ice cream and is located
in Gaza City, has also sought Hamas protection from Israeli
imports, said Manal Hassan, its executive director.  
 Destroyed Citrus  
 Oranges grown in Gaza are twice as expensive as those from
Israel, where packaging materials are also 30 percent cheaper,
Qannan said. As much as 85 percent of Gaza’s citrus crop was
destroyed by tanks and soldiers since 2000, much of it during
Israel’s 22-day military operation that ended in January 2009,
according to Mohammed al-Agha, the Hamas agriculture minister,
driving up the cost of the fruit.  
 The  Israel Defense Forces  said in an e-mailed response that
the Hamas figure is wrong. It didn’t say how much of the citrus
crop was destroyed.  
 Mark Regev , an Israeli government spokesman, said the fact
that Hamas is refusing to admit products allowed in by Israel
shows that it “continues to put its extremist political
ideology above and beyond the well-being of the people of
Gaza.”  
 Israeli leaders said last year’s military operation was
aimed at stopping the firing of rockets into southern Israel.
Hamas is classified as a terrorist organization by the U.S.,
European Union and Israel.  
 Former Settlements  
 The blockade limited imports into Gaza to no more than 150
products, according to Raed Fattouh, the Palestinian Authority’s
liaison officer at Israel’s Kerem Shalom crossing into the
territory. Before the restrictions, some 8,000 products flowed
into Gaza, he said.  
 The Hamas agriculture ministry, in an effort to restore the
citrus crop, has planted 4,000 acres of trees in what Zaza
described as “liberated” former Jewish settlements that Israel
evacuated in 2005 when it also withdrew its troops from Gaza.  
 Qannan said it will take seven years before they bear the
quality of fruit needed for juice.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
 Saud Abu Ramadan  in Gaza at  sramadan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "The policy of the government is to protect and maintain local products and industry," Hamas Economy Minister Ziad Zaza said. Photographer: Naaman Omar/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
