-- Germany, Argentina Reach Last Eight Amid World Cup Controversy
-- James Cone
-- 2010-06-27T22:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/germany-argentina-reach-last-eight-amid-world-cup-referee-controversies.html

          
          
             Three-time champion Germany beat
England 4-1 yesterday to reach a soccer World Cup quarterfinal
against Argentina, a 3-1 winner against Mexico. Both games were
overshadowed by controversial decisions from match officials.  
 Thomas Mueller scored twice in the second half in
Bloemfontein, South Africa, for Germany, which had taken a two-
goal lead in the first half through  Miroslav Klose  and  Lukas Podolski .  Matthew Upson  replied for England.  
 “It was a fantastic performance against a very experienced
England team,” said Germany coach  Joachim Loew , according to
soccer governing body FIFA’s website. “We knew we could hit
England on the counter-attack because they were open. Our
players carried it off brilliantly. And I must compliment Thomas
Mueller. He is always so cool in front of goal.”  
 Decisions in each game may fuel demands for the use of
video technology to help match officials, a move that’s been
resisted by FIFA.  
 England appeared to have tied the score at 2-2 after 38
minutes when  Frank Lampard’s  shot hit the bar and bounced behind
the line but wasn’t given as a goal. Television replays showed
the ball was clearly over the line.  
 In Johannesburg, Mexico’s players protested for an offside
decision, having seen a stadium video replay of  Carlos Tevez’s 
first goal for Argentina. Tevez later scored again, with  Gonzalo Higuain  also getting a goal. Javier Hernandez was the Mexican
scorer.  
 Biggest Defeat  
 “We knew that if we imposed our attacking game, we’d get
through,” Argentina coach  Diego Maradona  told reporters. “We
were superior throughout the 90 minutes. I congratulate my
players.”  
 Germany and Argentina, champion in 1978 and 1986, will now
meet in the quarterfinals for a second successive World Cup.
Germany won on penalties four years ago.  
 Mexico exited at the round of 16 for a fifth straight World
Cup. England, a quarterfinalist at the last two tournaments,
slipped to its biggest defeat at a major event.  
 Germany almost took the lead after only four minutes as
Mesut Ozil broke through the England defense, but goalkeeper
 David James  was able to deflect the ball for a corner.  
 After a tense opening period with few other chances, Klose
got the opening goal -- his 50th for Germany and 12th at the
World Cup. The Bayern Munich striker held off a challenge from
Upson to collect a long ball before firing into the net.  
 Podolski Strike  
 Podolski scored with a low left-foot shot after 32 minutes
as Germany’s carved open its opponent’s defense again, although
England replied only five minutes later from an Upson header.  
 Less than a minute later, Lampard hit a 20-yard shot that
hit the underside of the bar before bouncing down behind the
line. The referee and his assistants adjudged that it hadn’t
crossed.  
 England coach Fabio Capello said the Lampard “goal” that
wasn’t given was a turning point.  
 “We played well but Germany are one of the biggest teams
here,” he said. “We made some mistakes when they played the
counter-attack. The little things always decide the results.”  
 Lampard hit the bar again with a free kick in the 52nd
minute before Germany scored twice to secure the victory as
England, trying to press forward, left its goal over-exposed.  
 Man of the match Mueller finished a breakaway move on 67
minutes, and did the same against three minutes later with a
close-range finish.  
 Anything Possible  
 “Now anything is possible, even if there is a tough nut
waiting for us in the next round,” Mueller said. “But that
doesn’t matter, we just have to clear the way. I have left some
space in my trophy cabinet at home.”  
 Klose said the team’s aim was to now reach at least the
semifinals. Germany achieved that four years ago, while it was
runnerup in 2002. The nation’s last World Cup title was in 1990.  
 In Johannesburg, Tevez headed in Argentina’s opener from
close range in the 26th minute after  Lionel Messi  chipped the
ball into his path. Mexican players protested that Tevez was
offside, and surrounded the assistant referee, who hadn’t made
the call.  
 Higuain, who now has four goals at this year’s tournament,
doubled his team’s lead after 33 minutes when Mexico’s  Ricardo Osorio  passed the ball to him.  
 Players and officials from both teams clashed off the field
at halftime as the atmosphere became heated.  
 Tevez Double  
 Man of the match Tevez fired in a powerful 25-yard strike
in the 52nd minute for his second goal, seemingly ending any
chances of a Mexico comeback. He was replaced by  Juan Sebastian Veron  with 20 minutes remaining.  
 Hernandez, who will play in the Premier League for
Manchester United next season, gave Mexico hope with a goal
after 71 minutes. The striker received the ball with his back to
goal, then turned, took a touch and smacked it past goalkeeper
 Sergio Romero .  
 Argentina’s  Gabriel Heinze  and  Martin Demichelis  both had
to clear from in front of their own goal in the last 25 minutes
as Mexico pushed forward.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Joachim Loew head coach of Germany looks on from the touchline during the 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa. Photographer: Clive Mason/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
