-- Gillard Flexibility on Australia Mine Tax Revives Labor's Election Chances
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-06-28T06:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/gillard-flexibility-on-australia-mine-tax-revives-labor-s-election-chances.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s willingness to compromise on a mining tax proposed by
her predecessor may prevent opposition leader  Tony Abbott  from
reaping gains in elections likely to be held later this year.  
 “The landscape has changed,”  Stephen Miller , who manages
A$7 billion ($6 billion) worth of Australian bonds as managing
director in Sydney at BlackRock Inc., said in a phone interview
from London. “Investors see there are grounds for optimism” in
a government of Gillard’s Labor Party.  
 As soon as Gillard ousted  Kevin Rudd  as prime minister on
June 24, she vowed to resolve a standoff over his proposed 40
percent mining tax plan on what he called “super” profits.
Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd.,  the world’s biggest mining
company, said in a statement it was “encouraged” by Gillard’s
naming and would suspend its anti-tax advertising.  
 Gillard said she would call elections for this year. The
earliest possible date for a joint House of Representatives and
Senate election is Aug. 7 under Australian election laws.  
 “Gillard will win,”  Malcolm Mackerras , visiting fellow in
political science at the University of New South Wales, said in
a phone interview from Canberra. “The situation has pretty much
reverted” to December, when polls showed Labor in a winning
position, he said.  
 Rudd Excluded  
 Gillard, 48, excluded Rudd from her Cabinet today and moved
her most experience minister, ex-labor union leader  Simon Crean ,
61, into her former roles in employment, workplace relations and
education. Foreign Affairs Minister  Stephen Smith  takes the
additional job of trade minister, held by Crean.  
 “For the immediate future, my family and I have decided to
take a break,” Rudd said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 Wayne Swan  retains his role as Treasurer as well as
becoming deputy prime minister, while Finance Minister  Lindsay Tanner , who plans to retire from politics at the next election
keeps his post. No further changes will be made until Labor is
re-elected, Gillard said.  
 Labor will win an election held now, a Newspoll published
in the Australian newspaper today showed.  
 Labor leads the opposition by 53 percent to 47 percent,
according to a telephone survey of 1,142 people between June 25
and 27. Some 53 percent preferred Gillard as prime minister,
compared with 29 percent for Abbott, the poll, with a 3
percentage point margin of error, showed.  
 Preferred Leader  
 The first Nielsen opinion poll after Gillard overturned
Rudd gave her a 10 percentage point lead over Abbott’s Liberal-
National coalition, at 55 percent to 45 percent, and a 21 point
lead over Abbott as preferred leader, according to the telephone
survey of 1,000 voters in the Sydney Morning Herald June 26.  
 The previous poll, on June 3 to 5, put the coalition in the
lead, at 53 percent to 47 percent, for the first time in four
years.  
 Abbott, 52, had been gaining on Rudd, 52, whose approval
rating fell below 50 percent from above 70 percent last year.
Rudd clashed with mining and energy companies over the profit
tax, which the proposal set at returns above the long-term
Australian government bond rate of about 6 percent.  
 Gillard’s claims of “throwing open the door” for
“genuine” talks with mining companies can’t be believed,
Abbott told the Liberal Party Federal Convention in Canberra
June 26.  
 “This week’s protestations of goodwill are as believable
as last week’s protestations of loyalty to Kevin Rudd,” Abbott
said. “She can execute a prime minister but she can’t execute a
government program.”  
 Middle Ground  
 Uncertainty over the tax still exists, said  Tim Schroeders ,
who helps manage A$1.1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in
Melbourne.  
 “The intentions are good in terms of wanting to find a
middle ground with mining companies,” he said by phone. “The
proof of the pudding will be in the eating.”  
 Gillard’s appointment wasn’t greeted with enthusiasm from
all investors. The  S&P/ASX 200 Index  fell 0.7 percent today,
adding to last week’s 4.3 percent fall as investors pared buying
on speculation Gillard may not abandon the tax and Asian stocks
fell on U.S. earnings forecasts.  
 Even if the tax issue is resolved, the candidates will
confront other difficult economic issues. The winner will have
to tackle rising health care and pension costs caused by a
rapidly aging population and fix the nation’s crumbling ports,
roads and rail networks, said  Graham Bradley , president of the
Melbourne-based Business Council of Australia, which represents
100 chief executives from the nation’s biggest companies.  
 Growing Population  
 “Decades of underinvestment in social, economic and public
infrastructure have undermined Australia’s once rock-solid
support for a growing population,” Bradley said in a June 24
speech to the National Press Club in Canberra.  
 Transport is key to Australia’s economy because the nation
is the world’s biggest shipper of iron ore and coal. Natural
resources, which are sent to China and elsewhere by rail, ship
and truck, make up 10 percent of gross domestic product.  
 Australia’s infrastructure backlog is at least A$128
billion, or nearly 11 percent of gross domestic product, the
Sydney office of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said in a
June 23 research report.  
 In addition, all political leaders must show “courage and
honesty” in tackling health care, which absorbs 10 percent of
gross domestic product in the A$1.2 trillion economy, Bradley
said.  
 Population Growth  
 Between now and 2050, the number of people aged 65 to 84
years will more than double and the number of people aged 85 and
over will more than quadruple, according to the Treasury’s
 Intergenerational Report , released on Jan. 31. Australia’s
population has more than tripled since 1945, to 22 million, in
part through immigration.  
 Gillard moved away from Rudd’s “big Australia” views
yesterday, saying immigration policies must “focus on employers
sponsoring people who are the skilled labor that they need.”  
 “I’m indicating a different approach,” Gillard in an
interview broadcast by the Nine television network. Population
policy is “a really major issue for this country.”  
 Gillard may revive a proposal for a carbon-trading system,
a goal Rudd shelved because of opposition in the Senate and lack
of action by other countries. Abbott’s coalition opposes carbon
trading and has proposed a A$1 billion emissions reduction fund
that would give farmers and industry incentives to cut emissions.  
 “Gillard will have to be blasted out with a credible
alternative platform,” Wayne Errington, a political leadership
and communication specialist at Canberra-based Australian
National University said in a phone interview. “The opposition
will struggle.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net ;
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard  
                       
                         
                           Scott Barbour/Getty Images 
                         
                         Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard speaks during a news conference in Canberra. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard speaks during a news conference in Canberra.  Photographer: Scott Barbour/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Adrian Loh, associate director at DnB NOR ASA in Singapore, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Australia's proposed tax on mining profits and its impact on the resources industry.
     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s willingness to compromise on a mining tax proposed by her predecessor may prevent opposition leader Tony Abbott from reaping gains in elections likely to be held later this year.  (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
