-- Gillard, First Female Australia Premier, Breaks With Rudd Mining Tax Plan
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-06-27T07:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/gillard-first-female-australia-premier-breaks-with-rudd-mining-tax-plan.html

          
          
             Julia Gillard , who last week
replaced  Kevin Rudd  as Australian prime minister, may move to
slow Australia’s population growth amid concerns about failing
infrastructure and the nation’s environment.  
 “The change of direction is to put front and center the
sustainability issues,” Gillard said in an interview with the
Nine television network today “There are environmental issues
about water and about soil. But there are also sustainability
issues about planning, about services.”  
 Gillard has distanced herself from some of Rudd’s policies
since gaining the role unopposed in a Labor party-room ballot on
June 24. The 48-year-old Wales-born lawyer already revisited two
of Rudd’s most unpopular decisions by reconsidering a carbon-
trading system shelved in April and agreeing to negotiate with
the mining industry on a proposed tax increase.  
 Rudd had said he advocated a “big Australia” amid
government projections for the population to rise to 36 million
by 2050 from  22 million now . Gillard, like her predecessor,
hasn’t nominated an optimal population target.  
 The Urban Taskforce, a lobby group that represents property
developers, said any slowing may affect economic growth in a
country that avoided the global recession.  
 “Any reduction to our nation’s rate of population growth
puts at risk the very things that have made Australia what it is
today,” Taskforce Chief Executive Officer  Aaron Gadiel  said in
e-mailed comments today. “As our population ages, without a
strong immigration program we can expect significant labor
shortages in key parts of our economy, including major capital
cities.”  
 ‘Right’ Migrants  
 Gillard said any policy must focus on the “right” kind of
migrants, including those that fill skills shortages.
Australia’s population has more than tripled since 1945 with
more than 900,000 immigrants arriving in the past decade,
according to data from the  Department of Immigration &
Citizenship   
 “We will still have an approach about getting the
migration settings right, about meeting our needs for skilled
labor, but I also want to see us do it sustainably,” the prime
minister said. “I hope people would conclude my parents were
the right kind of migrants.”  
 The country will continue to intercept asylum seekers who
attempt to reach the Australian mainland in unauthorized boats,
and detain them until their claims can be processed.  
 “I believe in doing the effective things to manage our
borders,” she said. “I also believe this nation needs to honor
its obligations to people who are genuine refugees, and honor
what I think is an Australian value about care and concern for
children.”  
 Balance of Power  
 The Greens party, whose support in the Senate can help pass
government legislation over opposition objections, said any
policy change shouldn’t ‘demonize” asylum seekers.  
 “Australia needs a sustainable population determined by
our infrastructure and environmental capacity,” Greens leader
Senator  Bob Brown  said in an e-mailed statement. “Asylum
seekers make up a tiny fraction of overall immigration levels,
and it is the other 90 percent plus of immigration that debate
should focus on.”  
 Since taking on the top role, after 2 1/2 years as Rudd’s
deputy, Gillard has given Labor an election-winning lead over
the opposition Liberal-National party coalition led by  Tony Abbott .  
 In her first speech as Prime Minister, Gillard said the
government would scrap its mining tax advertising and start
“genuine” negotiations with miners on resolving their
objections, calling on the industry to do the same.  
 “In an act of good will they have. I think that’s given us
a terrific foundation to now have the genuine negotiations we
need to get to a conclusion here,” Gillard said today. “I
think I took a big step forward for goodwill and respect in the
discussion about the mining tax.”  
 Gillard, who can decide when the election will be held,
this week said a poll will come before the end of 2010.  
 “I’m indicating a different approach,” Gillard said. “I
don’t want employers telling me that they can’t get the workers
they need, when in some parts of this country, we have got youth
unemployment in double digits.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        