-- Reliance Communications Said to Cut $3 Billion Debt Selling Towers to GTL
-- Ketaki Gokhale
-- 2010-06-27T11:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/gtl-to-buy-reliance-communications-towers-to-expand-mobile-phone-network.html

          
          
             Billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s  Reliance
Communications Ltd.  will cut its debt by at least $3 billion by
selling its mobile-phone transmission towers, people familiar
with the deal said.  
 GTL Infrastructure Ltd.  will buy approximately 50,000
towers from Reliance in its second acquisition this year, the
Indian companies said today. Combining the Reliance and GTL
assets will create India’s second-largest transmission network,
worth 500 billion rupees ($11 billion), the two said without
disclosing details.  
 Selling the towers will help Reliance, also known as Rcom,
invest in network upgrades after it paid 85.9 billion rupees
last month to buy permits to offer high-speed wireless phone
services. GTL will take on as much as 150 billion rupees of
debt in addition to paying stock and cash, the people said.
Reliance had debt of 199 billion rupees as of March 31.  
 “This would add significant cash to the books of Rcom,”
said  Nishna Biyani , an analyst with Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt Ltd.
in Mumbai. “I wouldn’t be surprised if Rcom stock reaches 200
rupees.”  
 Reliance Communications rose 2.3 percent to 192.3 rupees, 
the highest in eight months, in Mumbai on June 25. 
GTL Infrastructure rose 6 percent to 45.35, a year’s high.  
 The transaction is expected to be completed during the
next six months, Reliance Communications said.  Gaurav Wahi , a
spokesman for the company, declined to comment on the debt
transfer. Standard Chartered Bank acted as financial adviser to
GTL Infrastructure. Reliance Communications acted without
outside advisers on the transaction.  
 Tower Values  
 The deal is good news for India’s communications industry
because it values the towers of the combined entity at 6.3
million rupees each, 25 percent more than the most recent such
sale, Biyani said.  
 Transactions have valued Indian telecommunications towers
at between 4.5 million rupees and 4.8 million rupees, according
to a June 16 note from Religare Institutional Research.
 American Tower Corp. ’s Indian subsidiary in February agreed to
acquire the Essar Group’s tower unit for about $430 million,
and in January, GTL agreed to buy 17,500 transmission sites
from Aircel Ltd. for 84 billion rupees to help it double its
network in India.  
 “There’s going to be a lift in valuations for tower
assets across the country,” Biyani said.  
 The deal comes as average revenue per user, a key metric
in the telecommunications industry, is poised to fall 22
percent in India this year after declining 25 percent in 2009,
according to Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  
 Rates Fall  
 Price competition has cut call rates to less than one U.S.
cent a minute, Merrill Lynch said. Only Pakistan and Bangladesh
have lower average revenue per customer than India, the world’s
second-largest mobile phone market, it said.  
 In addition to 48,139 mobile-phone towers, Reliance
Communications owns an optical-fiber cable network of 190,000
kilometers, according to a June 16 report from HDFC Securities.
Its customers include Tata Teleservices Ltd.,  NTT DoCoMo Inc. ’s
Indian partner, and Uninor, a venture between India’s Unitech
Ltd. and Norway’s Telenor ASA.  
 Reliance Communications has plans to sell a 26 percent
stake in itself at an “appropriate” premium to the market
price to a strategic or private equity investor.  
 Emirates Telecommunications Corp. on June 7 said Reliance
Communications is among opportunities it is “studying” in
India. Reliance Communications said those “discussions are
continuing,” in its e-mail statement today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Selling its mobile-phone transmission towers will help Reliance invest in network upgrades. Photographer: Prashanth Vishwanathan/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
