-- Guineans Go to Polls as Mineral-Rich Nation Aims to Restore Civilian Rule
-- Alpha Camara
-- 2010-06-27T19:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/guineans-go-to-polls-as-mineral-rich-nation-aims-to-restore-civilian-rule.html

          
          
             Guineans voted in presidential
elections today as the mineral-rich West African nation aims to
restore civilian rule and encourage more foreign investment.  
 Voting ended at 6 p.m., though people in line at that time
were still allowed to cast ballots. Results are likely within 72
hours, according to the country’s independent national electoral
commission. A second round of balloting will be held in July if
no candidate wins more than 50 percent. Guinea hasn’t had a
democratic transfer of power since it gained independence from
France in 1958.  
 Guinea holds as much as half of the world’s reserves of
bauxite, used to make aluminum, more than 4 billion tons of
“high-grade” iron ore, “significant” diamond and gold
deposits, and uranium, according to the U.S. State Department’s
 website . It needs to restore stability and attract more
investment to help lift what the African Development Bank
estimates is 53 percent of its 10.3 million people out of
poverty.  
 “The election is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to
open up the country properly, or otherwise remain an
underdeveloped African country,”  Peter Davey , head of mining
research at Ambrian Capital in London, said on June 15. “It has
huge implications for companies like Vale that want to operate
in that country.”  
 Vale, Chinalco  
 Guinea attracted investment commitments of $6.9 billion in
the first quarter from companies including Rio de Janeiro-based
 Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, and Beijing-
based  Chinalco , China’s biggest producer of the metal, said  Rob Edwards , London-based mining analyst at Moscow-based investment
bank Renaissance Capital.  
 Per capita income is less than half the sub-Saharan African
average of $861, according to the World Bank, and the country
ranks 170th out of 182 countries on the UN’s  Human Development
Index , which measures life expectancy, literacy and gross
domestic product per capita.  
 Twenty-four candidates are competing for the presidency.
The three leading contenders are  Alpha Conde  of the Rally of the
Guinean People,  Cellou Dalein Diallo  of the Union of Democratic
Forces of Guinea and  Sidya Toure  of the Union of Republican
Forces, according to  Kissy Agyeman-Togobo , West Africa analyst
with Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS Global Insight.  
 A run-off between Diallo and Conde is the “most likely
outcome” with Diallo winning in the second round, said Tom
Wilson, a London-based analyst with Control Risks.  
 ‘Vote in Peace’  
 Diallo told reporters after casting his ballot that he
hoped people would “vote in peace.”  
 “It’s a great hope for the country to vote now after all we
have known in the past,” Conde said after he voting in the
Madina neighborhood of Conakry.  
 The election is being held a year-and-a-half after the
military, led by Captain  Moussa Dadis Camara , seized power
following the death of former President  Lansana Conte , who had
ruled the country for two decades. General  Sekouba Konate  took
over the leadership of the junta after Camara was shot by an
aide in December, pledging to hold elections within six months.
 Sekou Toure , the country’s first president, ruled until his
death in 1984.  
 “It’s everything to me,” said Cheick Tidiane Soumah, a
44-year-old driver as he waited to vote at a primary school in
the downtown Kaloum neighborhood of Conakry. “We need change,
social change.”  
 ‘New Direction’  
 The country is “breaking with the old methods and going in
a new direction,” said Edem Kodjo, former prime minister of
Togo and head of the African Union’s observer mission. “It’s
changing its own image in the world,” he said in an interview
June 24. The Addis Ababa-based AU has sent 50 observers to
monitor today’s vote.  
 The three main candidates pledged last month to review
mining agreements to establish whether they are favorable to the
country.  
 Guinea is already in a dispute with London-based  Rio Tinto
Group  over ownership of resources at its Simandou iron-ore mine
after the country told the world’s third-largest mining company
it planned to take a 20 percent stake in blocks 3 and 4 at the
site.  
 Rio was ordered to hand over blocks 1 and 2 of the
concession in December 2008 to closely held Guernsey-based BSG
Resources Ltd. In April, Vale agreed to pay $2.5 billion for
deposits in Guinea, including those blocks.  
 A spokeswoman for Rio in London declined to comment on the
election or its potential impact on the company.  
 Among other investments, Hong Kong-based China
International Fund will spend $3 billion building the
infrastructure for Jersey, Channel Islands-based  Bellzone Mining
Plc ’s Kalia project in the center of the country.  
 Mines Minister  Mahmoud Thiam  said Guinea is now more
attractive to foreign companies and needn’t fear affecting
confidence because of the dispute with Rio.  
 “The market will not turn from Guinea because of Rio,”
Thiam said in an interview in Conakry on June 24.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emily Bowers  in Conakry via Johannesburg at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .
 Alpha Camara  in Conakry via Johannesburg at
   acamara4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        