-- Retail Sales Rise at Slowest Pace Since January as Incentive Programs Fade
-- Aki Ito
-- 2010-06-28T01:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/japan-s-retail-sales-climbed-2-8-in-may-from-year-earlier-ministry-says.html

          
          
             Japan’s retail sales rose at the
slowest pace since January, a sign that government incentives
to purchase cars and household appliances are fading.  
 Sales  advanced 2.8 percent in May from a year earlier, the
Trade Ministry said today in Tokyo. The gain was slower than
the 4.8 percent median estimate of 14 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News.  
 The weakening of retail sales contrasts with a pickup in
prospects for companies, which may this week project their
first increase in capital investment since 2007. Japan’s policy
makers are counting on a revival of domestic demand to help end
the deflation that’s hampering the economic recovery.  
 “Consumer spending has been lifted a lot by fiscal
measures but they’re set to disappear” and the rebound for
retailers will continue to cool, said  Hiroshi Watanabe , a
senior economist at the Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo.
“Japan’s consumption is on a recovery trend as incomes are
finally hitting bottom, but the pickup will be very moderate.”  
 The Topix index of shares fell 0.6 percent at 10:14 a.m.
in Tokyo, extending its losses this quarter to 12 percent.  
 Retail sales  slumped a seasonally adjusted 2 percent in
May from a month earlier, the biggest drop in five years,
today’s report showed.  
 Cars and machinery led the month-on-month decline.
Automobile sales slid 5.9 percent from April and those of
household machinery, which includes appliances such as flat-
screen TVs, tumbled 7.9 percent.  
 Shopping Incentives  
 The government has been offering shoppers incentives to
buy energy-efficient vehicles and electronics to support the
economy. Some of the programs are scheduled to expire this year.  
 Japan’s export-led recovery is beginning to spur business
investment. The Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan survey of
 corporate sentiment  this week will show companies aim to boost
spending by 0.9 percent in the year ending March 31, according
to the median estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
That would be the first increase in three years.  
 Meanwhile, spending by households remains too weak to
stamp out deflation.  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food fell
for a 15th month in May, the statistics bureau said last week.  
 Workers have had some relief in recent months, with wages
climbing in March and April and job prospects picking up. There
were 88  newly advertised jobs  in April for every 100 people who
started looking for work that month, the most in more than a
year. Paychecks gained 1.6 percent in April as staff worked
more overtime to keep up with rising demand.  
 Consumers More Confident  
 Consumer confidence  gained in May to the highest level
since October 2007 even as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
roiled markets across the globe. Sentiment about jobs led the
increase, the survey showed.  
 Economist  Yoshiki Shinke  said the improving labor market
will prompt people to open their purse strings.  
 “Before, it was just the household appliances and the
cars that were selling” under the incentive program, Shinke,
senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo,
said before today’s report. “Now we’re beginning to see that
gradually spread to clothes and services.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        