-- Japanese Bond Futures Trade Near Two-Year High on Slowing Recovery Signs
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-06-28T01:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/japan-s-bonds-may-rise-as-signs-of-slowing-recovery-boost-demand-for-debt.html

          
          
             Japanese bond futures traded near a
two-year high after reports showed the nation’s retail sales
grew at the slowest pace since January and the U.S. economy
expanded at a lower rate than previously estimated.  
 Ten-year  yields  were near the lowest level since 2003
before a report tomorrow that economists said will show Japan’s
industrial production was unchanged in May, signaling the
nation’s economic recovery is dimming. Demand for longer-
maturity bonds may rise on speculation money managers will buy
the securities to match an  index  used to gauge performance.  
 “The global outlook is deteriorating as market
participants try to grasp how Europe’s fiscal crisis will harm
economies,” said  Akito Fukunaga , Tokyo-based chief rates
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “Yields will
struggle to rise.”  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery rose 0.04 to
141.10 at 9:35 a.m. in Tokyo. They earlier rose to 141.19,
matching the highest for a benchmark contract since March 2008.  
 The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due June 2020 was
unchanged at 1.145 percent at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. Ten-year yields
touched 1.125 percent on June 24, the lowest since August 2003.  
 Ten-year yields may drop to 1 percent by the end of
September, Fukunaga said. If his forecast proves accurate,
investors who buy the securities today will make a 1.6 percent
return, Bloomberg data show.  
 Slowing Recovery  
 The Commerce Department said on June 25 that U.S. gross
domestic product expanded at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, smaller than the median forecast of 79 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey and compared with a 3 percent
estimate issued last month. Ten-year Treasury yields fell 11
basis points last week. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Japanese retail sales advanced 2.8 percent in May from a
year earlier, the Trade Ministry said today in Tokyo. The gain
was slower than the 4.8 percent median estimate of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 The nation’s factory output last month was unchanged after
rising 1.3 percent in April, according to a separate survey
before the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry releases the
data tomorrow.  
 “The data may be weaker than expected and add to signs
that the economic recovery is beginning to stall,”  Tetsuya Miura , chief market analyst in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co.,
wrote in a research note today. “Investor focus this week may
switch to economic reports, which are unlikely to initiate
selling of bonds.”  
 Nomura Securities Co. increased the average duration of its
Bond Performance Index by 0.06 year to 6.75 years for July.  
 Money managers such as Japan’s Government Pension
Investment Fund, which runs the world’s largest pool of
retirement wealth, use indexes such as Nomura’s to help decide
their holdings. Duration is a gauge of how much a change in
yield affects a bond’s price.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        