-- Firms May Forecast First Boost to Spending Since 2007 on Economic Recovery
-- Theresa Barraclough
-- 2010-06-28T00:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/japan-s-companies-may-forecast-first-boost-to-capital-spending-since-2007.html

          
          
             The Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey
this week will probably show that companies’ reluctance to
deploy record stockpiles of cash is diminishing as they become
less pessimistic about the economic outlook.  
 An  index  of sentiment at large manufacturers will climb 11
points to minus 3 in June, according to the median forecast of
19 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News, the highest level
since September 2008. A negative number means pessimists
outnumber optimists. Companies will project their first spending
increase in three years, the survey of analysts showed.  
 Higher business investment would diversify the foundations
of Japan’s export-led recovery, a need underscored today by
figures showing retail sales weakened in May. While Bank of
Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  sees signs the rebound is
starting to spur domestic demand, the BOJ is unlikely to tighten
policy while deflation lasts, said economist  Minoru Nogimori .  
 “The Tankan survey may ease concern that financial-market
instability will slow growth,” said Nogimori, an economist at
Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo. “But the improvement won’t
necessarily signal an end to the easy monetary policy.”  
 The export revival is prompting companies such as  Sanyo
Electric Co.  to expand production and others like Nikon Corp. to
increase spending on plant and equipment.  
 Contrast With Investors  
 Businesses aim to boost  spending  by 0.9 percent in the year
ending March 31, after planning cutbacks of 3.9 percent three
months ago, according to the median estimate of 12 economists.
That would be the first increase since fiscal 2007. The Tankan
report is due on July 1 at 8:50 a.m. in Tokyo.  
 Any improvement in sentiment would contrast with the
outlook among investors, whose concern that global demand will
falter has sent the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  12 percent lower
this quarter. Europe’s fiscal woes have also spurred the yen to
climb against all 16 major currencies since March 31,
threatening exporters’ competitiveness. The Nikkei was little
changed at 9,737.97 as of 9:30 a.m.  
 At home, retailers saw sales slow in May in a sign that the
impact of government incentives to purchase cars and household
appliances is fading. Spending rose 2.8 percent in May from a
year earlier, the Trade Ministry said, the smallest advance
since January.  
 Kan’s Plans  
 Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  this month released plans for
boosting economic growth as well as shrinking the budget deficit
to contain the world’s biggest  public debt . The growth strategy
aims to halt the slide in  consumer prices  by the end of next
fiscal year and urges the BOJ to “make utmost efforts” to end
deflation. The goal to restore fiscal health may leave the
burden on the central bank to help sustain the recovery.  
 “We expect the government to continue making demands of
the BOJ,” said  Chiwoong Lee , senior economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in Tokyo. “We think the BOJ will maintain its
accommodative monetary stance and continue to search for
additional easing measures.”  
 Japan’s central bank has kept the benchmark  interest rate 
at 0.1 percent since December 2008, and has since injected cash
into the economy by providing low-interest loans to banks. This
month it unveiled a 3 trillion-yen ($33 billion) program to
encourage  lending  to companies.  
 The government raised its growth forecast last week to 2.6
percent for the year ending March 31, predicting the export-led
rebound will fuel outlays by businesses and households.  
 ‘Cashed Up’  
 Companies will use record cash obtained from a
“particularly rapid earnings recovery” to buy plant and
equipment, said  Ryutaro Kono , an economist at BNP Paribas in
Tokyo. “We expect cashed-up large manufacturers to show the
strongest signs of an increased willingness to channel funds
into new capital investment,” Kono said.  
 Nikon, a camera maker, said this month that it aims to more
than double net income to 65 billion yen in the year ending
March 2013. The company will increase capital spending to 120
billion yen over three business years, up 9 percent from the
preceding plan.  
 Sanyo said this month that it will boost solar-panel
production capacity at plants in Osaka and Shiga prefectures.
The world’s biggest maker of rechargeable batteries is
forecasting its first annual profit in three years.  
 The Tankan survey is also expected to show an improvement
in non-manufacturers’ confidence. The sentiment index for  large
service companies  will improve seven points to minus 7, also the
highest since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in
September 2008, according to the median estimate of economists.  
 Market turmoil may damp the corporate mood in coming months,
according to  Hiromichi Shirakawa , a former official at the
central bank, who warned against downplaying the risk of an
export slump triggered by Europe’s debt problems.  
 “Looking ahead, the improvement in large companies’
confidence may stall and sentiment among smaller enterprises may
worsen a bit because stocks remain in a slump and the yen is
rising,” said Shirakawa, chief Japan economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Tokyo.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
 Theresa Barraclough  in Tokyo at 
 tbarraclough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa attends a news conference at the central bank's headquarters in Tokyo. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Colquhoun, director at Fitch Ratings Asia-Pacific sovereign group, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Japan's credit rating and fiscal policy.
     Colquhoun, speaking from Tokyo, also discusses China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy. The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
