-- Jobless Produce U.S. Profit on Productivity With Less Inflation
-- Steve Matthews
-- 2010-06-28T14:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/jobless-produce-u-s-investor-profits-on-productivity-with-less-inflation.html

          
          
             Malcolm Barnes distributed snacks
for 27 years before losing his job in October 2007. After
applying unsuccessfully with food companies, he’s taken welding
and machining classes and is looking for manufacturing work.  
 “If they are not hiring in vending, you have to change
with the times,” said the 53-year-old Greenwood, South
Carolina, high-school graduate. “I am doing everything I can to
upgrade.”  
 The 6.8 million Americans out of work for 27 weeks or
longer -- a record 46 percent of all the  unemployed  -- are
providing U.S. companies with an eager, skilled and cheap labor
pool. This is allowing businesses to retool their workforces,
boosting efficiency and profits following the deepest recession
since the 1930s, and contributing to a 61 percent rise in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  since March 2009.  
 “Companies are getting higher-productivity employees for
the same or lower wage rate they were paying a marginal
employee,” said  James Paulsen , who helps oversee about $375
billion as chief investment strategist at Wells Capital
Management in Minneapolis. “Not only are employees higher
skilled, you have a better skill match. You have a more
productive and more adaptive labor force.”  
 Falling wage pressures will help keep inflation low,
contributing to lower Treasury-bond yields, according to  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in
Charlotte, North Carolina. He forecasts  10-year Treasuries  will
yield about 3.1 percent in the third quarter, compared with 4
percent in April.  
 Wage Pressure  
 The lack of wage pressure also “reinforces the case for
globally exposed companies” because “there has been better
cost containment in the U.S. than in some of our competitors,”
said  Ethan Harris , head of North America economics at Bank of
America-Merrill Lynch Global Research in New York. He said this
would benefit businesses such as Cincinnati-based  Procter &
Gamble Co. , the world’s largest consumer-products company, and
Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Co. , the world’s biggest soda maker.  
 Fired workers from Wall Street to  South Carolina , where 58
percent of the unemployed have been without work for six months
or longer, say they are networking, going back to school and
retraining to stay relevant as jobs become more specialized.
Some still may not achieve comparable positions, and Federal
Reserve officials say lasting joblessness may weigh on economic
growth.  
 ‘Persistent’ Unemployment  
 “There is a structural dimension to unemployment that
looks persistent,”  Neal Soss , chief economist at Credit Suisse
in New York, said in an interview. “Regrettably, it feeds on
itself. People who have been out of work half a year or more
naturally are going to have a harder time re-engaging on
satisfactory terms. Their skills can atrophy, and their
attitudes toward life and work can be damaged. It is
debilitating.”  
 Even as manufacturing rebounds and job creation resumes,
the average duration of unemployment was a record  34.4 weeks  in
May, twice the rate of the 1981-82 recession when joblessness
reached  10.8 percent , compared with a high of 10.1 percent in
October 2009.  
 The Labor Department will report on July 2 that
unemployment rose to 9.8 percent in June from 9.7 percent in
May, according to the  median forecast  of 50 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  
 Intellectual Skills  
 Hiring standards have changed during the past decade, with
more jobs requiring employees to use computers and the Internet
and to apply judgment and intellectual skills, said Sandra
Johnson, workforce-development administrator for the  Upper
Savannah Council of Governments  in Greenwood, South Carolina.  
 She coaches job seekers with tips on “behavioral
interview” questions that are now typical among manufacturers:
“Tell me a time you had a problem and how did you solve it?”  
 U.S.  productivity gains  averaged 2.9 percent from 2000
through the first quarter of 2010, compared with 2.1 percent in
1990-1999 and 1.5 percent in 1980-1989, according to the Labor
Department. The increased efficiency has helped improve
earnings, with more than 80 percent of companies in the S&P 500
index reporting profits that  exceeded  the consensus analysts’
estimates during the most recent quarter, Bloomberg data show.  
 “The U.S. has been enhancing its global competitiveness,”
Harris said. “We don’t see inflation picking up until there is
a substantial drop in the unemployment rate.”  
 Low Inflation  
 The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 1.3 percent in May from a year earlier. Harris
projects inflation will average 1.1 percent by this measure in
2010 and 0.8 percent in 2011.  
 While  Wells Fargo & Co. , the biggest U.S. home lender, has
reduced the number of its financial advisers in the past year,
the San Francisco-based company has added “high-quality,
experienced” employees with productivity “more than twice that
of the advisers we lost,” Senior Executive Vice President  David Carroll  said at a May 14 investor meeting.  
 “Very specific skill sets is what will get people hired
these days,” said  Gary Townsend , president of Hill-Townsend
Capital LLC in Chevy Chase, Maryland, a hedge fund that
specializes in financial firms. “Companies are able to slice
off the weakest members of the team and find very highly
qualified and motivated replacements. There is very little wage
pressure.”  
 ‘Fantastic Productivity’  
 Google Inc. , owner of the world’s most popular search
engine, has achieved “fantastic productivity,” partly by
moving “from a single product to a multiproduct sales force,”
 Henrique de Castro , head of media and platforms at the Mountain
View, California-based company, said at a June 2 technology
conference in New York.  
 While the labor market is “improving gradually,”
joblessness is likely to constrain household spending, the Fed
said in its June 23 statement. “The record rise in long-term
unemployment associated with the recession is likely to yield a
persistent overhang of workers facing long unemployment spells,
slowing the recovery,” said Fed Bank of New York economist
Aysegul Sahin, Fed Bank of San Francisco’s  Bart Hobijn  and the
University of Michigan’s Michael Elsby in a  May report .  
 The U.S. economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, less than the 3 percent estimate issued last
month, according to Commerce Department data released June 25.
The economy contracted in five quarters during the recession
that began in  December 2007 , the worst performance since the
Great Depression.  
 Consumer Pessimism  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
 consumer sentiment  was 76 in June, below the level 12 months
after the end of the 1981-82 recession even following a year of
output gains. The consumer pessimism might reduce stock-market
gains on the margin, keeping price-to-earnings ratios below
their 20-year average, according to Soss. The ratio for the S&P
500 index was  15.6  on June 25, compared with an average of 20.4
since June 1990.  
 “Households are less eager to respond by buying stocks,”
Soss said. “Mutual-fund flows show no sponsorship in the stock
market. It leaves the market less grounded in steady hands,
which is not necessarily conducive to good performance.” His
prediction is for stocks to be “essentially unchanged on the
year.”  
 Thirty-nine percent of large companies expect to add jobs
in the next six months, while 17 percent plan cutbacks,
according to a survey by the Washington-based Business
Roundtable. The outlook “holds some optimism for continued
expansion but there is also a lot of caution on the part of
CEOs,”  Ivan G. Seidenberg , chairman of the Roundtable and chief
executive officer of New York-based  Verizon Communications Inc. ,
said on a June 23 conference call with reporters.  
 Older Workers  
 Some of the unemployed may not benefit from the recovery.
Workers aged 55 years and older had an average jobless duration
of 35.5 weeks in February, compared with 23.3 weeks for people
16 to 24 years old, according to the  most recent data  available
from the Labor Department.  
 “I’d be very surprised if it turns around very soon,”
said  Harry Holzer , former chief economist at the department and
a professor of public policy at Georgetown University in
Washington. “There is a tendency toward a growing mismatch. The
longer people are unemployed, the harder it is to bring them
back in.”  
 Matt Prendergast , a former investment banker and managing
director at Bear Stearns Cos. who covered the insurance
industry, has been in the job market since September 2008. Being
out of work that long may raise questions “in the minds of
recruiters,” even though “I don’t feel there has been any
erosion of my knowledge or market value,” said Prendergast, 51,
of Mahwah, New Jersey.  
 Even so, the search has been “extremely competitive,” he
said. “When you are responding to an ad, you need an exact
match for every skill set or requirement in the job.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ivan G. Seidenberg of Verizon Communications  
                       
                         
                           Ken Cedeno/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Verizon Communications Chairman and CEO Ivan G. Seidenberg speaks during a hearing in Washington, DC. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Verizon Communications Chairman and CEO Ivan G. Seidenberg speaks during a hearing in Washington, DC. Photographer: Ken Cedeno/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Dean Maki, chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about U.S. manufacturing and housing data for April, and the outlook for the economy and Federal Reserve monetary policy.
     Production in the U.S. rose by the most since August and builders broke ground on fewer homes than projected, showing manufacturing is sustaining the recovery as the housing market retreats following the expiration of a government tax credit. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Rennie, head of currency research at Westpac Banking Corp., talks about the outlook for currencies following the Group of 20 leaders summit in Toronto.
     Rennie, speaking in Sydney, also discusses the Chinese and U.S. economies. He talks with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
