-- Kagan's Confirmation to High Court Not Guaranteed, Senator Sessions Says
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-27T17:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/kagan-s-confirmation-to-high-court-not-guaranteed-senator-sessions-says.html

          
          
             U.S. Supreme Court  nominee  Elena Kagan  may still face a Senate filibuster should she fail to
assure lawmakers that she won’t pursue an activist agenda from
the bench, Senator  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama said today.  
 “If things come out to indicate she’s so far outside the
mainstream, it’s conceivable a filibuster might occur,” he said
today on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. Sessions is the
ranking Republican on the  Senate Judiciary Committee , which
opens hearings tomorrow on Kagan’s nomination. Sessions said the
nomination has “real problems.”  
 Senate confirmation of Kagan, President  Barack Obama ’s
second Supreme Court nominee, would for the first time give the
court three female members. Republicans are questioning Kagan’s
lack of judicial experience and what they call an activist,
liberal past, pointing to prior remarks and work on issues
including abortion, gun control and campaign finance.  
 “I need to be sure that her activist background will not
be taken to the court,” Senator  Lindsey Graham , a South
Carolina Republican and a member of the Judiciary Committee,
said today on “Fox News Sunday.”  
 John Cornyn  of Texas, chairman of the National Republican
Senatorial Committee and a Judiciary Committee member, said it’s
“simply premature” to comment on whether Republicans might
filibuster to block a Senate floor vote. Democrats control the
Senate 59-41, one vote short of the 60 needed to overcome the
delaying tactic.  
 “The problem is that Ms. Kagan has a very sparse record,”
Cornyn said today on CNN’s “State of the Union.”  Kagan’s
‘main record” is that of a political strategist and adviser in
President  Bill Clinton ’s White House, he said.  
 ‘Thin Record’  
 Sessions also challenged Kagan’s experience.  
 “This nominee has a very thin record legally: never tried
a case, never argued before a jury, only had her first
appearance in the appellate courts a year ago,” he said. “She
just is not the kind of nominee you would normally expect to
have.” Her confirmation is not a “done deal,” Sessions said.  
 Sessions questioned whether Kagan will “as a judge
subordinate herself to the Constitution and keep her political
views at bay?”  
 Democrats say Kagan, 50, would add needed diversity to a
court made up entirely of former lower court judges. Obama
called her a “trailblazing leader” and “an acclaimed legal
scholar” when he nominated her on May 10 to replace retiring
Justice  John Paul Stevens .  
 Solicitor General  
 Obama appointed Kagan last year as solicitor general, the
U.S. government’s top Supreme Court lawyer, making her the first
woman to fill that office. Among her supporters are all eight
living former solicitors general, four of whom are Republican.  
 The American Bar Association, the nation’s largest legal
professional group, last week declared Kagan well qualified to
serve on the court. She is a graduate of Princeton University
and Harvard Law School.  
 Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat and member
of the Judiciary Committee, said Kagan is “superbly qualified”
and in step with “legal thinking in the United States.”  
 She will bring a new “mainstream breath” to the Supreme
Court, Feinstein told Fox News Sunday.  
 Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a
Vermont Democrat, predicted today that Kagan will be seen during
the hearings as a “brilliant legal mind.”  
 “Let’s hear from her,” Leahy said today on “Face the
Nation.” “At the end of the week people’s views may be
entirely different.”  
 ‘Earn Her Way’  
 Graham said that, while he views Kagan as “well
qualified” and sees no need at this time for a filibuster, she
must “earn her way onto the court.” In particular, Kagan must
explain her comment that  Aharon Barak , former president of
Israel’s Supreme Court, is her “judicial hero,” Graham said.  
 “I want to hear why she picked this guy in Israel to be
her judicial hero because he said some things way out of the
American mainstream,” Graham said. “She’ll have to convince me
that all of this liberalism that she’s lived with all her life
can be put in a proper place.”  
 Barak expanded the powers of Israel’s high court and the
range of issues over which it has the last word.  
 Kagan also must explain her decision while Harvard Law
School dean to prohibit military recruiters from the campus
career center. The university adopted the rule to protest the
military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” rule barring openly gay
service.  
 Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, the ranking Republican on
the Armed Services Committee, said today on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” program that he’s “disturbed” about Kagan’s “obvious
steadfast and even zealous opposition to military recruiters, to
the presence of military on the campus of the most prestigious
university in the view of many in America.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        