-- Naspers Says China Regulatory Changes Won't Affect its Tencent Investment
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-06-27T17:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/naspers-ceo-bekker-says-china-internet-rules-change-won-t-affect-tencent.html

          
          
             Naspers Ltd.  doesn’t expect recently
announced regulatory changes in China to have any impact on its
investment in  Tencent Holdings Ltd ., China’s biggest Internet
company by market value, Chief Executive Officer  Koos Bekker 
said.  
 China said on June 22 it will prohibit companies that
operate platforms for online virtual-currency transactions from
providing services to minors. Virtual currencies from online
games are traded on the Internet among players and used to buy
swords, armor and other items for use in games. Individuals earn
virtual currencies as they play.  
 “I think the markets misunderstood the nature of the
announcement,” Bekker said today in an interview in Cape Town,
where he is attending the Fortune Global Forum. “The
announcement was to prevent certain abuses like taking virtual
currency to buy real-life items. We are not in that business at
all. We certainly shouldn’t be affected by it and we certainly
don’t worry about that at all.”  
 Naspers, Africa’s largest media company, owns about 35
percent of Tencent. The Cape Town-based company’s  shares  fell
5.6 percent on the day the Chinese regulatory changes were
announced.  
 “We invested in  Tencent  when it was a baby 10 years ago,”
Bekker said. “It’s been a good investment. We don’t manage
Tencent. We are just a minority shareholder.”  
 Emerging Markets  
 Naspers operates in 127 countries and has focused on making
acquisitions in emerging markets.  
 “The reason we don’t look at the U.S. is we probably would
just get killed,” Bekker said. “What looks promising is
eastern Europe and Latin America.”  
 Naspers is due to releases earnings for the year through
March on June 29. The end of the global recession has resulted
in a rebound in advertising revenue at Naspers’ print media
unit, which has cut jobs over the past two years, Bekker said.  
 “We have passed the cutback stage,” he said. “We are now
stabilizing. Short-term the advertising market is bouncing back
globally. We see it in several of our markets, which are
somewhat more buoyant. There are some very positive signs for
the longer term.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        