-- New York Legislators Seek to Restore Some School Aid in Budget Showdown
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/new-york-legislators-seek-to-restore-some-school-aid-in-budget-showdown.html

          
          
             New York  lawmakers, unwilling to
approve a budget plan proposed by Governor  David Paterson ,
prepared an alternative that cuts less aid to schools and
universities and authorizes spending to avoid a government
shutdown.  
 The plan drew criticism from the governor’s office. A
statement by Paterson’s spokesman,  Morgan Hook , said it lacked
revenue proposals to close the state’s $9.2 billion  deficit . The
governor called for a special legislative session today to take
up budget issues, including the need to prepare for a $1 billion
revenue loss if the U.S. Congress doesn’t approve more Medicaid
health-care funding.  
 “In typical Albany fashion, the Legislature is now touting
its spending and restorations to the governor’s proposed cuts,
while failing to provide a way to pay for them,” Hook said in a
statement.  
 Assembly Speaker  Sheldon Silver , a Democrat from Manhattan,
 said  the state’s finances require spending cuts.  
 “However, we are committed to sparing our schools from the
most devastating cuts and ensuring that our higher education
system remains accessible to all New Yorkers,” he said in a
statement.  
 Budget negotiations are continuing and a closing of state
government will be avoided, Senate Democratic Leader  John Sampson  of Brooklyn said in a statement.  
 Paterson Plan  
 Two days ago, Paterson submitted a  plan  to finish the
budget for the fiscal year that began April 1, in what would be
the 13th weekly emergency bill to keep the nation’s third-most
populous state running. In the absence of a comprehensive
budget, the governor has shuffled funds between accounts and
delayed payments to schools and contractors as cash dwindled.
Lawmakers can’t modify the emergency bills, only pass or reject
them.  
 The plan agreed to by Sampson and Silver would finish
appropriations for most of state government not covered by
Paterson’s earlier bills, eliminating the weekly threat that
government would shut if the emergency spending measures aren’t
approved.  
 Lawmakers would restore $600 million of the $1.4 billion of
cuts in state aid to local school districts proposed by
Paterson, according to statements the legislators issued.
Paterson’s plan would reduce the cuts to $1.2 billion, Budget
Director  Robert Megna  said.  
 School Funds  
 The legislators provided more money for the state and New
York City university systems, their statement said. Silver has
opposed Paterson proposals to give universities flexibility to
increase tuition without legislation, and impose a cap on annual
increases in property taxes by local schools and governments.  
 Paterson, a Democrat who isn’t running for re-election in
November, said last week the budget plan needs $920 million to
$1.2 billion of additional revenue.  
 Lawmakers last week approved plans to raise $440 million
from higher taxes on cigarettes and tobacco, and collecting the
cigarette tax on sales from American Indian Reservations to non-
tribe members. Lawmakers didn’t endorse Paterson’s proposal to
raise $330 million by applying the state’s 4 percent sales tax
to clothing purchases of less than $110, which are currently
exempt from the charge.  
 While Paterson can call lawmakers back to Albany, he can’t
compel them to vote on the bill he proposed June 25, said  Travis Proulx , a spokesman for Sampson. Paterson’s bill included
measures that wouldn’t pass both chambers as required, so
additional talks are needed, Proulx said.  
 Senate Majority  
 Senate Democrats hold a 32-to-30 majority that is the
minimum needed to pass legislation. They have to placate members
who oppose spending cuts that hurt low-income constituents, as
well as Paterson, who said last week he won’t accept a budget
balanced with borrowing or unrealistic revenue assumptions.  
 A two-thirds vote in each chamber would be required to
over-ride a Paterson veto of any or all of the lawmakers’
proposals. In the Assembly, Democrats hold more than two-thirds
of the votes.  
 “Governor Paterson will veto any new member items added”
to the spending bills he proposed in January, Hook said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        