-- Nigeria to Get Bank Offers by Mid-July, Central Bank Governor Sanusi Says
-- Camilla Hall
-- 2010-06-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/nigeria-to-get-offers-for-banks-by-mid-july-central-bank-governor-says.html

          
          
             Nigerian Central Bank Governor
 Lamido Sanusi  said he expects three international lenders, a
number of private equity houses and local lenders to submit
offers for banks bailed out by the state by mid-July.  
 The interested parties are undertaking “detailed” due
diligence, the central bank governor said. Nigeria imposed new
management and injected funds into eight banks last year in a
bid to nurse them back to health and find potential buyers.  
 “We’ve got three international banks that have remained in
the serious running to acquire banks,” Sanusi said in an
interview yesterday in Basel, Switzerland. “There’s also a
number of local banks and private equity firms. By the middle of
August we should actually have clear visibility on at least five
of the banks.”  
 The financial crisis left the country’s lenders with toxic
assets of about $10 billion, New York-based Eurasia Group
estimated a year ago. The central bank fired the top managers of
eight of the country’s 24 lenders and gave the industry an
injection of 620 billion naira ($4.1 billion) to stem the
decline.  
 Securing a future for Union Bank, Oceanic,
Intercontinental, PHB and Afri is the priority as these banks
are the most “systematically important” to Nigeria, Sanusi
said.  
 The central bank is waiting for presidential approval for a
law that will create the Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, a
government entity that will buy bad debts from the banking
sector, using funds raised through government-guaranteed local
bond issuance. The bonds will be issued on a deal by deal basis
and the presidential approval is expected early next month,
Sanusi said.  
 Interest Rate  
 Sanusi said he sees no reason now for a change in the
benchmark interest rate.  
 “A rate cut at this particular moment in time doesn’t
appear to be necessary,” he said. “There is no compelling
imperative at this point to review the interest rate stance.”  
 The next monetary policy meeting will take place on July 5,
he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        