-- North Korea's Kim Preparing for Son's Succession, CIA Chief Panetta Says
-- Eunkyung Seo
-- 2010-06-27T15:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/north-korea-s-kim-preparing-for-son-s-succession-cia-chief-panetta-says.html

          
          
             North Korea’s leader  Kim Jong Il  is
laying the groundwork to hand over power to his son  Kim Jong Un ,
and the North’s alleged attack in March on a South Korean
warship may be part of that process, Central Intelligence Agency
Director  Leon Panetta  said on today’s ABC’s “This Week.”  
 “Our intelligence shows that at the present time there is
a process of succession going on,” Panetta said. “Part of the
provocations that are going on, part of the skirmishes that are
going on, are in part related to trying to establish credibility
for the son, and that makes it a dangerous period.”  
 South Korea’s Yonhap news agency, without citing anyone,
reported June 25 that North Korea may grant Jong Un official
status as the heir-apparent to lead the country when its ruling
party holds a meeting of party representatives in September. The
elder Kim, 69, suffers from poor health and his youngest son,
Jong Un, is being widely tipped as his successor, according to
South Korean officials.  
 The Political Bureau of the Workers’ Party, led by Kim Jong
Il, will convene in early September to elect its highest leading
body, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency said.  
 Jong Un, known to be in his 20s, was appointed as head of
the country’s secret police last year, according to Dong-A Ilbo
newspaper in Seoul.  
 Handover Delayed  
 South Korea agreed with the U.S. yesterday to delay a
planned handover of “wartime control” in the event of a
military conflict to Dec. 1, 2015, from April 2012, amid
heightened tensions with North Korea.  
 South Korea’s presidential office announced on its website
that the agreement was reached at a meeting between South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  and U.S. President  Barack Obama  in
Toronto, Canada, on the sidelines of the summit of the Group of
20 nations.  
 South Korea was scheduled to take over the right to control
its forces in the event of a war in April 2012 under a 2007
agreement with the U.S. The U.S. had full control of South
Korea’s forces during the 1950-53 Korean War and until 1994,
when the Asian nation was given operational control during
peacetime.  
 South Korea has remained technically at war with North
Korea since the conflict ended in a cease-fire that was never
replaced by a peace treaty. South Korea’s 680,000-strong
military faces off with as many as 1.2 million troops across the
border in North Korea, which has built atomic bombs and long-
range ballistic missiles.  
 The U.S. has about 28,500 troops in the South and is in the
process of moving them away from the border.  
 The accord came after South Korea blamed North Korea for
sinking the 1,200-ton Cheonan on March 26, killing 46 sailors.
South Korea, backed by the U.S., is pushing for United Nations
Security Council condemnation of North Korea.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        