-- NYSE Euronext, Delta, Lions Gate, Auxilium, Merck: U.S. Equity Preview
-- Caroline Dye
-- 2010-06-27T19:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/nyse-euronext-delta-lions-gate-auxilium-u-s-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading tomorrow. Stock symbols
are in parentheses.  
 Delta Air Lines Inc.  (DAL US): The world’s biggest carrier
and other air transport companies, including FedEx Corp. (FDX
US), failed to persuade a federal judge to block regulations
that make it easier for workers to unionize. The rules are
scheduled to go into effect on July 1.  
 Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.  (LGF US): Investor Carl
Icahn said he won’t rule out supporting a combination of the
motion picture company and  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. , the Wall
Street Journal reported on its website. Icahn said he was
“skeptical” if any deal between the two studios would make
sense for Lions Gate shareholders.  
 Merck & Co.  (MRK US): The pharmaceutical company is
challenging a decision by a New York jury to award $8 million in
damages in a case related to its drug Fosamax, calling the award
“unjustified and excessive.”  
 Universal Health Services  (UHS US): The operator of more
than 100 U.S. medical facilities had its corporate credit rating
lowered to BB from BBB by Standard & Poor’s.  
 NYSE Euronext  (NYX US): Shares of the biggest operator of
U.S. stock exchanges may rise as much as 20 percent as growth in
derivatives trading worldwide adds to its earnings, Barron’s
reported, without saying how it got the number.  
 BorgWarner Inc.  (BWA US): Shares of the world’s biggest
maker of automatic-transmission parts, may rise to as high as
$50 during the next year as demand for fuel-efficient and less-
polluting vehicles increases, Barron’s reported, citing
analysts.  
 Auxilium Pharmaceuticals Inc . (AUXL US): Shares of the drug
manufacturer may fall into the teens if sales for its hand-
disorder treatment fall short of estimates, Barron reported,
without citing anyone. The evidence of its potential market size
is “surprisingly weak and contradictory,” the weekly newspaper
said in its June 28 edition.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  Caroline Dye  in New York
at   cdye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        