-- G-20 Leaders Sneak World Cup Peeks on Sideline of Deficit Talks
-- Julianna Goldman
-- 2010-06-27T18:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/obama-cameron-merkel-sneak-world-cup-peaks-amid-g-20-deficit-discussions.html

          
          
             For all the debate among world
leaders gathered in  Canada  this weekend about differentiated
responses to deficit reduction, there was wide agreement on the
importance of at least one issue: the  World Cup .  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama , U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  were among fans at
the Group of 20 summit and around the world rooting their
national teams, even if it meant sneaking in a few minutes in
front of a television between and during meetings over such
pressing concerns as currencies and sustaining the global
economic recovery.  
 Such was the excuse for Merkel and Cameron, who ducked out
of a morning session on economic growth and international
financial institutions to watch their home teams compete for a
spot in the quarter-finals.  
 “That was a fabulous game and a fabulous win,” Merkel
said after  Germany ’s 4-1 victory over  England  in Bloemfontein,  South Africa .  
 She said there was a “very nice sportsmanlike atmosphere”
in the room and that the British prime minister “naturally
congratulated us.”  
 Staying Behind  
 Obama, French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Italian Prime
Minister Silvio Berlusconi, whose teams did not advance, were
among those who stayed behind.  
 “I hope the others forgive us for leaving the room during
the second half,” Merkel said.  
 Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  may not have minded.
Yesterday, during the Group of Eight summit in Huntsville,
Ontario, Kan told Merkel that he was hoping for a Japan-Germany
World Cup final, according to Foreign Ministry spokesman Kazuo Kodama. Kan told reporters last night that he is “very pleased
with the team” and was looking forward to their June 29 match
against  Paraguay .  
 “The World Cup brought leaders together around a common
cause -- enjoying one of the globe’s premier sporting events,”
said Charles Kupchan, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations in  Washington . “Too bad that finding common cause on
matters of diplomacy and finance is a much more elusive
challenge.”  
 Sports diplomacy can’t bridge all differences. There is the
question of whether to call it football or soccer and how to
enjoy a beverage while watching.  
 Settling Bets  
 At yesterday’s meeting between Obama and Cameron, the two
leaders took the opportunity to make good on a World Cup bet
stemming from the June 12 England versus U.S. match that
resulted in a tie. They presented one another with a craft-
brewed beer from their home towns. Cameron got beer made by
Chicago-based brewer  Goose Island , and Obama was given Hobgoblin
from  Wychwood Brewery  from Witney, Oxfordshire, in Cameron’s
home constituency.  
 “I advised him that in America, we drink our beer cold, so
he has to put this in the refrigerator before he drinks it,”
Obama said.  Of the Hobgoblin, Obama said, “I’m happy to give
that a shot, although I will not drink it warm.”  
 “You can have it cold, it’s all right,” Cameron told
Obama, drawing laughter from the room.  
 In between his meeting with Cameron and South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak , Obama went into a room across the hall
that was equipped with a flat-screen TV, to check the score of
the U.S. versus Ghana game. At halftime, Ghana was ahead 1-0.  
 ‘Nerve-Wracking’  
 Obama’s meeting with his South Korean counterpart -- which
included discussion about reviving a stalled trade deal by the
time of the next G-20 meeting in November and confronting North
Korea -- ended in time so Obama could watch the end of the U.S.-
Ghana game. With Ghana leading 2-1 in the extra period, Chief of
Staff Rahm Emanuel walked in the room to ask Obama how much time
was left for the U.S. to score.  
 “Five minutes,” Obama said. “It’s nerve-wracking.”  
 Although the U.S. lost, Obama and Ghana’s President John Atta Mills will exchange team jerseys when the two leaders next
meet, said White House Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs , who played
goalie for North Carolina State University in Raleigh.  
 In his statement, Gibbs said the two leaders also
reaffirmed “the strong ties between the people of our two
countries, including our shared passion on the soccer field.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Toronto at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        