-- Obama Says U.S. Deficit Goals Match G-20 Targets; Warns on North Korea
-- Julianna Goldman
-- 2010-06-28T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/obama-says-g-20-made-progress-on-ensuring-lasting-global-economic-recovery.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  welcomed the
deficit-cutting goal set by the Group of 20 nations even as he
warned against acting too quickly to pull back on measures to
stimulate economic growth.  
 Obama also said at the conclusion of the G-20 summit in
Toronto yesterday that the U.S. will be watching closely as
China relaxes its currency policy, and that North Korea must be
held to account for its “belligerent” behavior.  
 The G-20’s endorsement of cutting deficits by 2013 mirrors
U.S. targets and takes into account the fiscal and economic
needs of each nation, Obama said at a news conference.  
 “We can’t all rush to the exits at the same time,” the
president said of steps to curtail stimulus actions. “What we
have to recognize is that the recovery is still fragile.”  
 “But we also have to recognize that if markets are
skittish, and don’t have confidence that we can tackle the tough
problems of our medium- and long-term debt and deficits, then
that also is going to undermine our recovery,” he said.  
 The  S&P 500  stock index lost 3.7 percent to 1,076.76 last
week after new-home sales sank to a record low and the Federal
Reserve signaled that European indebtedness may lead to a weaker
U.S. economy. As investors seek alternatives to Europe, where
the credit ratings of Greece and Spain have been downgraded,
treasuries are having their best year since 1995, returning 5
percent through June 24, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  
 U.S. Deficit  
 The White House projects the U.S. shortfall will hit a
record of almost $1.6 trillion this year, about 10.6 percent of
U.S. gross domestic product. Obama made a pledge shortly after
taking office that he would slash the deficit in half by the end
of his first term.  
 Obama said steps he’s already taken, including a three-year
freeze on discretionary spending, cutting programs that aren’t
effective and establishing a presidential commission to
recommend ways of slashing the deficit, will help the U.S. reach
the target.  
 Still, with the U.S. unemployment rate at 9.7 percent,
Obama is urging the U.S. Congress to act on measures to boost
lending and give tax breaks to small businesses to encourage
employment.  
 The White House is pushing an election-year, $55 billion
jobs bill in the Senate, adding to last year’s $862 billion
stimulus package and reflecting the president’s position that
“policy support is necessary” to maintain a path toward U.S.
and global economic recovery.  
 ‘The Hard Part’  
 “As made clear this weekend in Toronto, now comes the hard
part: deciding when deficit reduction should take precedence
over stimulus, and figuring out how to revamp the financial
rules of the game to ensure that similar crises do not happen
again,” said  Charles Kupchan , a senior fellow at the Council on
Foreign Relations in Washington.  
 Obama said expanding trade will be key for sustaining U.S.
growth. Countries must compete fairly and have currency
valuations that are market-driven, he said. He reiterated U.S.
support for China’s plan to relax its currency policy under
President  Hu Jintao .  
 China’s undervalued currency has given it a “significant
trading advantage, and we have been very clear to them that we
don’t consider that acceptable or consistent with the principles
of balanced and sustainable growth,” he said.  
 China’s Currency  
 China has lifted a two-year-old policy of pegging the yuan
to the U.S. dollar and is allowing its currency to trade more
freely. Obama said the U.S. will be watching to see how quickly
China lets its currency rise.  
 “The proof of the pudding is going to be in the eating,”
he said.  
 Obama also said the world community must confront North
Korea over its “belligerent behavior” in sinking a South
Korean warship in March. At his meeting with South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  at the G-20, Obama said that the U.S.
will “stand foursquare behind him” in the response to the
action.  
 Obama said he raised concerns about North Korea’s actions
during his meeting with Hu yesterday.  
 “I was very blunt,” Obama said. “This is not an issue
where you’ve got two parties of moral equivalence who are having
an argument. This is a situation where you have a belligerent
nation that engaged in provocative and deadly acts.”  
 Obama also reaffirmed U.S. support for Japan and South
Korea, saying the U.S. will “always be there” for its allies
in the Pacific region.  
 Asked about Afghanistan, Obama said he won’t commit to a
firm timetable for a U.S. withdrawal and the choice isn’t
between pulling out quickly or staying indefinitely.  
 “We’re going to need to provide assistance to Afghanistan
for a long time to come,” Obama said. “They are still building
up a national government, they are in a very tough neighborhood.
They are a very poor country.”  
 Obama plans to review his strategy in December. The U.S.
wants to train enough Afghan soldiers to allow a drawdown of U.S.
troops to begin in July 2011. That date has drawn criticism from
Republicans, while some Democrats have voiced concern it won’t
be met.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Toronto at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Toronto at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama speaks at a news conference during the Group of 20 summit in Toronto, on June 27, 2010. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Jacob Kirkegaard, a research fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the Group of 20 leaders' plan to cut deficits and pursue higher capital requirements for banks once their economic recoveries take root.
     Kirkegaard, speaking from Washington, also discusses the shift in China's currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
