-- Oil Price Swings to Worsen as Spare OPEC Capacity Shrinks: Energy Markets
-- Alexander Kwiatkowski
-- 2010-06-28T11:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/oil-price-swings-to-worsen-as-spare-opec-capacity-shrinks-energy-markets.html

          
          
             Swings in oil prices may widen over
the next five years as  OPEC’s shrinking spare production 
capacity increases traders’ concern about supply shortages.  
 Oil’s 50-day historical volatility, a measure of how much
crude fluctuates around its average price, was at 34 percent on
June 25. The measure rose to a record 108 percent in January
2009 after OPEC’s spare production capacity fell to its lowest
in almost four years. The group’s idled capacity may drop to 3.9
percent of world demand by 2015 from 6.8 percent this year,
according to  International Energy Agency  estimates.  
 “That is a fairly significant tightening in the spare
capacity cushion,”  Mike Wittner , London-based head of oil
market research at Societe Generale SA, said by phone. “Over
and above increasing volatility, directionally it is going to
push up prices.”  
 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has said
its 6 million barrels-a-day of idled capacity is enough to meet
demand and avoid a repeat of the price swings of the past two
years, when oil slumped from a record $147 a barrel in July 2008
to $32 in December of that year. Crude traded this year at $64
to $88 a barrel in New York. Oil for August delivery was at
$78.40 in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, down 46 cents, at 12:18 p.m. London time.  
 “Concerns about a potential return to greater market
volatility remain,” the Paris-based IEA, an adviser to oil-
consuming nations, wrote in a report last week. “The declining
trend itself, to levels below 5 percent of global demand,
suggests more jittery markets ahead.”  
 Investors can profit from bigger price swings by trading
options contracts.  
 Long Straddle  
 When volatility is expected to rise, investors may use a
strategy known as a long straddle, in which they buy both a call
option and a put option on the same commodity, at the same
strike price. The gain is generated by how far the price of the
underlying commodity moves, regardless of the direction, while
their potential losses are limited to the cost of the options.  
 “If you have swings in the market then it is probably
beneficial to the hedge-fund space,” said  Pierre Montezin , a
fund manager at Zurich-based Plenum Investments Ltd., part of
Plenum Holdings AG which managed 761 million Swiss Francs ($693
million) in 2009. “They can be long, they can be short, they
can play the curve.”  
 Price swings may deter pension funds and exchange-traded
funds, which typically bet only on prices rising, he said.  
 “If there is a lot of volatility it is unsustainable to be
a long-only investor, your profit and loss swing will just be
too big,” Montezin said by phone.  
 Idle Capacity  
 OPEC , supplier of 40 percent of the world’s oil, pumped
29.4 million barrels a day in May, with capacity of another 5.5
million barrels idled, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The group’s spare capacity was as low as about 2 million barrels
a day in July 2008, when oil prices peaked, before tumbling as
the global recession crimped energy consumption.  
 Spare production capacity will drop as supplies from
outside the group fail to keep up with demand, according to the
IEA. The agency estimates world oil usage will rise 6.4 percent
by 2015 to 91.93 million barrels a day, while output, excluding
OPEC crude, will increase 3.7 percent. That means the world will
need more of the group’s oil to meet demand.  
 “There is good OPEC spare capacity today that should get
whittled down as demand increases over the next few years,”  Ian Taylor , chief executive officer of Vitol Group, the world’s
biggest independent oil trader, said at a conference in London
June 24. “The big issue is what the demand increase is going to
be. Most people would feel that the market is unlikely to fall
but could rise.”  
 New Capacity  
 OPEC has said new production will keep spare capacity near
6 million barrels a day through at least 2013. Group members are
planning 140 oil projects over the next five years, Secretary-
General  Abdalla El-Badri  said Feb. 1.  
 Saudi Arabia accounts for almost 60 percent of OPEC’s spare
capacity, according to Bloomberg estimates. The country is
investing as much as $30 billion on new supplies over the next
five years to keep a minimum 1.5 million to 2 million barrels-a-
day of spare capacity, Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said in a May
18 interview with consultant Petroleum Policy Intelligence.  
 “Markets are sensitive to when OPEC spare capacity starts
getting down toward 3 million barrels a day,” according to
Wittner of Societe Generale. Should supplies be disrupted from a
producer such as Iran or Nigeria “there would not be much left
after that,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Kwiatkowski  in London at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Adrian Loh, associate director at DnB NOR ASA in Singapore, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Australia's proposed tax on mining profits and its impact on the resources industry.
     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s willingness to compromise on a mining tax proposed by her predecessor may prevent opposition leader Tony Abbott from reaping gains in elections likely to be held later this year.  (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
