-- London Luxury-Home Price Gains Fade as Owners Decide to Sell, Savills Says
-- Simon Packard
-- 2010-06-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/london-luxury-home-price-increases-fade-as-more-properties-go-on-sale.html

          
          
             Luxury-home prices in central London
increased by the smallest amount in five quarters after a year-
long recovery in values persuaded more owners to put apartments
and houses on the market,  Savills Plc  said.  
 The average value of a home costing more than 1 million
pounds ($1.49 million) rose 0.6 percent in the second quarter
from the first three months of the year, according to the
 London-based property broker . Prices were 12 percent higher than
a year earlier, down from an annual gain of almost 17 percent in
the first quarter.  
 “It now seems clear we’re at a tipping point” as more
stock has come onto the market just as election uncertainty and
planned government budget cuts hurt demand,  Yolande Barnes , head
of residential research at Savills, said in the statement.  
 Prices will fall about 4 percent in the second half as the
fragile  economic recovery  and higher taxes damp appetites for
homes in neighborhoods like Mayfair, Kensington and Notting
Hill, Barnes predicted. She expects values to decline 1 percent
in the full year, following an 8.8 percent gain in 2009.  
 Luxury property values have gained every month since March
last year as buyers competed for a limited number of homes for
sale. Prices increased 3 percent in first quarter and 4.3
percent in the last three months of 2009. The second quarter
increase was the smallest since an 18-month slide in prices
bottomed out in March 2009.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced last
week that from June 23 the tax rate on profits from the sale of
rental properties or second homes will rise to 28 percent from
18 percent for U.K. taxpayers with total annual income exceeding
37,400 pounds.  
 New Taxes  
 Brokers reported a pickup in properties put on the market
after a plan announced by the governing Conservative and Liberal
Democrat parties implied that the capital gains tax rate would
increase to as much as 50 percent.  
 From April, individuals earning more than 150,000 pounds a
year are subject to a 50 percent income tax levy. Osborne also
left in place the previous administration’s plan to raise
property transfer tax, known as stamp duty, for homes costing
more than 1 million pounds to 5 percent in April 2011 from 4
percent now.  
 The tax changes are unlikely to reduce demand for London
real estate from overseas buyers, who account for half the
purchases and 63 percent of deals involving properties worth
more 15 million pounds, Savills said.  
 While values are 10 percent below the peak reached in the
third quarter of 2007, the pound’s slide means that in dollar
terms prices are down by 33 percent, Savills calculates.  
 Properties selling for more than 5 million pounds
appreciated by 1.3 percent from the end of March, the broker
said, while homes costing in excess of 15 million pounds gained
1.5 percent in the quarter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne announced last week that from June 23 the tax rate on profits from the sale of rental properties or second homes will rise to 28 percent from
18 percent for U.K. taxpayers with total annual income exceeding 37,400 pounds. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
