-- Most Read on Bloomberg: U.S. Stocks Drop, Financial Overhaul Bill, Pimco
-- Audrey Barker
-- 2010-06-27T04:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/most-read-on-bloomberg-u-s-stocks-drop-financial-overhaul-bill-pimco.html

          
          
             The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports from the past week.  
 ** Lists are based on daily statistics through yesterday, June
25.  
 STORIES  
 1. U.S. Stocks Fall, Slowing Global Rally; Commodities Trim Gain  
 June 21 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks fell, slowing a global
rally, as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index failed to remain above
levels watched by traders and optimism about China’s plan to
relax the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar faded in the last
hour. Commodities pared gains and Treasuries trimmed losses.  
 2. U.S. Stocks Drop, S&P 500 Has Longest Decline in Seven Weeks  
 June 24 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its longest losing streak in
seven weeks, as banks dropped on concern over financial
regulation and after the cost to protect from a Greek default
surged to a record, while consumer shares retreated.  
 3. Overhaul of Financial Regulation on Path to Obama’s Desk  
 June 26 (Bloomberg) --  The U.S. Congress is on pace to
deliver a sweeping re-write of Wall Street’s rules to President
Barack Obama by July 4, meeting the deadline lawmakers set for
themselves.  
 4. Global Stocks End Longest Rally in 11 Months; Treasuries Gain  
 June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks slid, with the MSCI World
Index halting the longest rally in 11 months, as a drop in U.S.
home sales underscored concern the recent advance in equities
may have overshot prospects for the economy. Treasuries jumped
as a sale of two-year notes produced a record low yield.  
 5. Gross Vows This Time Different as El-Erian Leads Equity Push  
 June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Bill Gross, who runs the world’s
biggest mutual fund, takes a seat in a conference room and makes
a confession. Overlooking the ocean at the headquarters of
Pacific Investment Management Co., Gross describes missteps that
doomed his bond firm’s experiment with equities in the mid-
1980s.  
 6. McChrystal Summoned Back to U.S., Job on Line After Article  
 June 22 (Bloomberg) -- General Stanley McChrystal arrives
at the White House tomorrow with his job on the line and the
strategy he devised for the war in Afghanistan at a critical
juncture.  
 7. Buffett Wins World Cup Bet as France Falls to Host  
 June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Warren Buffett won his bet against
France in the World Cup when the 1998 champion was eliminated by
South Africa.  
 8. Yuan Strengthens Most Since 2005 as China Signals End to Peg  
 June 21 (Bloomberg) -- The yuan rose the most since a July
2005 revaluation and forwards jumped after China’s central bank
ended a two-year peg before a Group of 20 summit this week.  
 9. Sales of U.S. New Homes Plunged in May to Record Low  
 June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Purchases of U.S. new homes fell in
May to the lowest level on record after a tax credit expired,
showing the market remains dependent on government support.  
 10. Obama May Gain ‘Breathing Room’ in Afghan Strategy  
 June 24 (Bloomberg) -- President Barack Obama may have
bought time to carry out a counterinsurgency strategy that has
faced resistance in Afghanistan amid concern that his timetable
to begin withdrawing U.S. troops by next year may be set back.  
 COLUMNS  
 1. Pimco’s Loss Is a Win for Wall Street Crooks: Jonathan Weil  
 June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Crime didn’t pay for Joseph Collins,
a former corporate lawyer who received a seven-year prison
sentence in January for securities fraud. It just has cost him a
lot less money than it should have.  
 2. BP Bankruptcy in U.K. Is Obama’s Worst Nightmare: Caroline
Baum  
 June 25 (Bloomberg) -- It would be a “horror,” a
“disaster,” according to lawyer Kenneth Feinberg, who was
appointed by President Barack Obama to administer BP Plc’s $20
billion compensation fund for victims of the Gulf oil spill.
“That is not an option.”  
 3. Democrats of 2004 Brand Obama Worst President: Kevin Hassett  
 June 21 (Bloomberg) -- As we approach another general
election, it will be interesting to see how the economic
performance of Democrats is judged. If voters borrow the
preferred method of John Kerry and other Democrats from 2004,
Barack Obama will be revealed to be among the worst presidents
in history.  
 4. IPhone 4 Is Better Than the Sum of Its Parts: Rich
Jaroslovsky  
 June 26 (Bloomberg) -- It’s unfair to suggest that Apple
Inc. doesn’t innovate. Yet innovation isn’t what it does best.  
 5. Tony Blair’s Hiring Is Step 1 in a BP Comeback: Matthew Lynn  
 June 22 (Bloomberg) -- The British oil company BP Plc
certainly knows how to dig a deep hole. But does it have any
idea of how to climb out of one?  
 MULTIMEDIA  
 1. Blanchflower Says U.K. Double Dip ‘Absolutely Certain’  
 June 21 (Bloomberg) -- David Blanchflower, professor of
economics at Dartmouth College, talks about the outlook for U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne’s first budget and
the government’s fiscal policy.  
 2. Osborne Says Budget Cuts Are ‘Unavoidable,’ Levies Banks  
 June 22 (Bloomberg) -- U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne outlines his plans to lower corporate taxes,
raise the sales tax and impose a bank levy as part of the
country’s biggest budget cuts in a generation.  
 3. Donovan’s Late Goal Gives U.S. Win, Trip to Round of 16  
 June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Landon Donovan’s goal in the first
of four added minutes lifted the U.S. to a 1-0 win over Algeria
in Pretoria, South Africa. Slovenia, which lost to England 1-0,
would have progressed to the last 16 of soccer’s World Cup had
the U.S. tied. Bloomberg’s Rachel Brookes reports. (No longer
available due to ESPN restrictions.)  
 4. Belgian Heiress Sells Steam-Powered Superyacht Delphine  
 June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Belgian textile heiress and licensed
passenger-ship captain Ineke Bruynooghe is seeking to sell S.S.
Delphine, the last operational steam-powered superyacht afloat.
(Excerpt. Source: Luxury Vision Productions.)  
 5. Switzerland Surprises Spain; South African Chances Dented  
 June 17 (Bloomberg) -- Switzerland upset favorite Spain 1-0
at soccer’s World Cup yesterday, its first win against the
European champion, while Chile beat Honduras 1-0. Uruguay tops
Group A after a 3-0 victory against host South Africa. (No
longer available due to ESPN restrictions.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Audrey Barker  in New York at 
 Abarker3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        