-- Lower Saxony's New Head Backs VW's Expansion Strategy, Porsche Takeover
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-06-28T16:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/lower-saxony-s-new-head-backs-vw-s-expansion-strategy-porsche-takeover.html

          
          
             Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest
carmaker, has the full backing of Lower Saxony to pursue an
expansion strategy, including its merger with  Porsche AG ,
according to the new head of the German state with veto power.  
 “We support  Martin Winterkorn ’s ambitious goal to make VW
No. 1 in the auto market worldwide by 2018,” designated Prime
Minister  David McAllister  said in an interview in Hanover,
Germany, the first since he was named successor to  Christian Wulff . Winterkorn is VW’s chief executive officer.  
 McAllister, 39, said he stands “rock solid” behind Lower
Saxony’s 20 percent stake in the automaker. Volkswagen paid $2.5
billion for a stake in  Suzuki Motor Corp.  in January to expand
in India and is taking over Porsche SE’s sports-car making
operations, adding a 10th brand to VW’s marques that include
Skoda, Seat and luxury brands Audi, Lamborghini and Bentley.  
 Volkswagen is also building a factory in Tennessee to boost
U.S. sales and plans to add a 10th plant in China to double
production capacity in the world’s biggest auto market.  
 “VW is a global player and has in the past years
integrated very many brands,” said McAllister, who will become
a member of VW’s supervisory board. “We also managed to
integrate Porsche into the VW group.”  
 ‘Firm Pillar’  
 Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen is acquiring Porsche
after  Wendelin Wiedeking , former CEO of the 911 sports-car
maker, failed to use options transactions to take over VW.
Resistance from Wulff last year helped prevent Porsche from
achieving its plan to buy 75 percent of VW, a holding that could
have given it access to VW’s cash.  
 Under Germany’s so-called Volkswagen law, Lower Saxony may
block major decisions by the carmaker. Porsche’s holding company
owns 50.7 percent of VW’s ordinary shares. Qatar Holding LLC,
part of the country’s sovereign wealth fund, is the third-
largest owner with a 17 percent stake.  
 “Lower Saxony is a firm pillar in that structure,” said
 Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive at the
University of Applied Sciences in Bergisch-Gladbach, Germany.  
 Volkswagen’s  preferred shares , which are more widely traded
than the common stock, rose 99 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 76.06
euros in Frankfurt, extending this year’s gains to 16 percent.
Porsche  gained  3.1 percent to 37.16 euros.  
 Wulff’s opposition to efforts by the European Union and by
Wiedeking to scuttle the VW law is the “biggest success” of
his seven-year tenure, said McAllister in the June 24 interview.  
 Winning Over Piech  
 Wulff, who will be elected German President June 30, forged
an alliance with  Bernd Osterloh , Volkswagen’s top labor leader,
to defend Lower Saxony’s ability to veto strategy decisions at
the carmaker. The helped him win the support of  Ferdinand Piech ,
VW’s chairman and a member of the clan that controls Porsche.  
 McAllister, son of a Scottish soldier and his German wife,
grew up in Berlin and has been a member of Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats since 1988. A lawyer by training,
McAllister will become Germany’s youngest state prime minister.  
 Lower Saxony’s ruling coalition of Christian Democrats and
Free Democrats control 81 of the state parliament’s 152 seats,
enough to guarantee McAllister’s election.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       McAllister backs VW's expansion  
                       
                         
                           CDU Niedersachsen via Bloomberg 
                         
                         David McAllister poses in this undated handout photo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     David McAllister poses in this undated handout photo. Source: CDU Niedersachsen via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
