-- Pakistan Receives F-16s That May Give `Unprecedented' Boost Over Taliban
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-06-27T18:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/pakistan-receives-f-16s-that-may-give-unprecedented-boost-over-taliban.html

          
          
             The Pakistan Air Force today
received its first three of 18  Lockheed Martin Corp.  F-16s that
the U.S. hopes will give the Afghan neighbor nation a crucial
edge against Taliban and al-Qaeda fighters in its northwest.  
 The aircraft give the Pakistan Air Force a night-attack
capability and all-weather precision targeting, “an
unprecedented advantage they have not had,” said Vice Admiral
 Michael Lefever , head of the U.S. military mission in Islamabad.  
 He predicted that the most up-to-date version of the
fighter aircraft could be pressed “fairly quickly” into air
operations against the Taliban, al-Qaeda and other insurgents in
the ungoverned northwest provinces.  
 The Obama administration is seeking to solidify relations
with Pakistan, as its strategy for stabilizing neighboring
Afghanistan depends on weakening the fighters who have found
havens in Pakistan’s ungoverned tribal areas and threaten
regional stability.  
 “Terrorists can operate at night with impunity but we have
had virtually no air cover at night,”  Husain Haqqani ,
Pakistan’s ambassador in Washington, said in an interview.  
 The F-16  Fighting Falcons  were accepted in a ceremony at
 Shabaz  Air Force base 300 miles (480 kilometers) north of
Karachi -- an installation U.S. and Pakistan officials agreed
was the best location for guarding the planes’ sensitive
technology. The remaining 14 will be delivered by December, a
Lockheed spokesman said.  
 ‘One of the Few’  
 Twenty-five nations have Lockheed F-16s, and Pakistan is
“one of the few” to have the advanced version, Lefever said in
an interview. That’s “a major milestone” for Pakistan and for
the U.S.-Pakistan relationship, he said.  
 The U.S. Air Force has completed training in Arizona of 16
Pakistani pilots, eight to instruct other pilots on the new
plane’s capabilities and eight who will lead nighttime missions,
spokeswoman Lieutenant Colonel Adriane Craig said in an e-mail.  
 The  Pakistan Air Force  has depended on 35 older-model F-16s
built in the 1980s. Today’s delivery brings its air strike
capability “to another level,” said  Derek Mitchell , Pentagon
Deputy for Asian affairs said in an interview.  
 Pakistan is now flying only day operations to support the
almost 147,400 troops in its regular army and paramilitary
Frontier Corps in their stepped-up offensive against the Taliban
and al-Qaeda.  
 The Air Force increased its ground strikes in 2009 to about
230 from about 95 in 2008, according to Pakistan figures.  
 Troubled History  
 Today’s delivery has “particular resonance in Pakistan”
because of the history of the sale, Mitchell said. “They have
seen it as a ‘marker’ in some regards,” he said.  
 The sale of 28 F-16s was approved in 1989 but  canceled  the
following year as part of U.S. sanctions over Pakistan’s nuclear
program.  
 The cancellation embittered Pakistan officials and
citizens. “There are some hard feelings still,” Lefever said.  
 The cancellation “became emblematic of the tension in
U.S.-Pakistan relations,” Haqqani said. “The delivery will be
a symbol of the burgeoning strategic partnership between our two
countries.”  
 U.S. Air Force Chief of Staff General  Norton Schwartz  was
scheduled to attend the ceremony.  
 Many Pakistanis consider the aircraft “a symbol of
national strength and pride,” said Alan Kronstadt, a Pakistan
analyst for the non-partisan Congressional Research Service.  
 Symbol of Strength  
 “It’s common to see elaborate and heroic depictions of F-
16s painted on lorries,” he said. “Many are keenly aware of
the allegedly unjust non-delivery, so this transfer may help
restore some trust in the U.S. as an ally,” he said.  
 The U.S. planned to deliver four F-16s today but a last-
minute maintenance issue kept one back, said Lieutenant Colonel
Patrick Ryder. It and four others will be delivered in August,
he said.  
 The aircraft were part of a $1.4 billion deal with Lockheed
Martin. The aircraft are equipped to drop laser-guided bombs and
satellite-guided bombs.  
 The sale finally went through because former President
 George W. Bush ’s administration in 2005 sought to reward
Pakistan for its cooperation in the war on terrorism, including
stationing thousands of its troops along its border with
Afghanistan to stop Taliban and al-Qaeda infiltration and arrest
suspected terrorists.  
 The proposed sale had to clear congressional hurdles that
included concerns about the aircraft’s relevance to counter-
insurgency and whether it would roil relations with its neighbor
and adversary, India.  
 Schwartz said he didn’t think India “will see this as a
strategic issue.”  
 Pakistan’s overall inventories of F-16s “are not so large,
and the 18 new aircraft will not upset the balance,” he said in
an interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        