-- Pixar's `Toy Story 3' Is No. 1 for Second Weekend on Sales of $59 Million
-- Alex Sherman
-- 2010-06-27T15:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/pixar-s-toy-story-3-is-no-1-for-second-weekend-on-sales-of-59-million.html

          
          
             “Toy Story 3” was the top film in
the U.S. and Canada for the second straight weekend, bringing in
$59 million in ticket sales for  Walt Disney Co.’s  Pixar Studio.  
 “Grown Ups” opened in second place with $41 million for
 Sony Corp. , Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in an e-mailed
statement.  
 “Toy Story 3”  has pulled in $226.6 million since its June
18 release, Hollywood.com said. The 3-D sequel brings back the
voices of  Tom Hanks  as Woody and  Tim Allen  as Buzz Lightyear and
introduces several new toys, including a villainous bear that
smells of strawberries, voiced by Ned Beatty. Sales have
benefited from the higher prices cinemas charge for 3-D movies,
which are on average about $3 more per ticket.  
 In “Grown Ups,”  Adam Sandler ,  Kevin James ,  Chris Rock  and
 David Spade  play a group of childhood friends, once teammates on
a championship basketball team, who reunite for a Fourth of July
holiday weekend.  
 “Knight and Day” debuted in third place with $20.5
million for  News Corp.’s  Fox film studio. The action-comedy
stars  Tom Cruise  and  Cameron Diaz  as a fugitive couple racing
across the globe.  
 “The Karate Kid,” a remake of the 1984 film, fell to
fourth place from second place with $15.4 million for Sony. The
film, starring  Jackie Chan  and Jaden Smith, has collected $135.6
million in three weeks of release.  
 “The A-Team” dropped to fifth place from third place with
$6 million for Fox.  Liam Neeson  stars as Hannibal Smith and
mixed-martial arts athlete Quinton “Rampage” Jackson plays
B.A. Baracus in an update of the 1980s television series.  
 Ahead of next weekend’s U.S. Independence Day holiday,
Summit Entertainment LLC will open “The Twilight Saga:
Eclipse” on Wednesday, June 30. “The Last Airbender,” a
fantasy directed by  M. Night Shyamalan , debuts July 1 for  Viacom
Inc.’s  Paramount Pictures.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Sherman  in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        