-- Reliance Communications Said to Cut $3 Billion Debt Selling Towers to GTL
-- Ketaki Gokhale
-- 2010-06-28T08:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/reliance-communications-said-to-cut-3-billion-debt-selling-towers-to-gtl.html

          
          
             Billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s  Reliance
Communications Ltd.  will cut its  debt  by at least $3 billion by
selling its mobile-phone transmission towers, three people
familiar with the deal said.  
 GTL Infrastructure Ltd.  will buy approximately 50,000
towers from Reliance in its second acquisition this year, the
Indian companies said yesterday. Combining the Reliance and GTL
assets will create India’s second-largest transmission network,
worth 500 billion rupees ($11 billion), the companies said in e-
mailed statements, without disclosing details.  
 The sale will help Reliance invest in network upgrades
after it paid 85.9 billion rupees last month to buy permits to
offer high-speed wireless phone services. GTL will assume as
much as 150 billion rupees of Reliance debt in addition to
paying stock and cash, said the people, who asked not to be
identified as they weren’t authorized to speak on the subject.  
 “This deal could reduce Reliance Communications’ debt by
as much as 60 percent -- that’s our estimate,” said  Jigar Shah ,
head of research at King Eng Securities India Pvt. Ltd. in
Mumbai. “That’s quite positive for the company as it rolls out
its third-generation network, and it would allow them to fetch a
better valuation for their 26 percent stake sale.”  
 Reliance had debt of 199 billion rupees as of March 31,
according to the company’s annual statement.  
 ‘Appropriate’ Premium  
 The company has separate plans to sell a 26 percent stake
in itself at an “appropriate” premium to the market price to a
strategic or private equity investor. Talks on the sale were
continuing, the wireless operator said yesterday.  
 Reliance  rose to its highest level in eight months in
Mumbai trading, climbing as much as 8.1 percent to 207.80 rupees,
and changed hands for 201.25 rupees as of 1:19 p.m. GTL surged
as much as 20 percent to 54.40 rupees, its largest increase in
almost three years. GTL shares traded at 47.7 rupees at 1:19
p.m., an advance of 5.2 percent  
 The tower sale is expected to be completed during the next
six months, Reliance said. Spokesman  Gaurav Wahi  declined to
comment on the debt. Standard Chartered Plc was financial
adviser to GTL on the deal, while Reliance acted without outside
advisers on the transaction.  
 “This would add significant cash to the books of
Reliance,” said  Nishna Biyani , an analyst with Prabhudas
Lilladher Pvt Ltd. in Mumbai.  
 Good News  
 The deal is good news for India’s telecommunications
industry because it values the towers of the combined entity at
6.3 million rupees each, 25 percent more than the most recent
such sale, Biyani said.  
 Transactions have valued Indian telecom towers at between
4.5 million rupees and 4.8 million rupees, according to a June
16 note from broker Religare Capital Markets Plc.  American Tower
Corp. ’s Indian subsidiary in February agreed to acquire the
Essar Group’s tower unit for about $430 million, and in January,
GTL agreed to buy 17,500 transmission sites from Aircel Ltd. for
84 billion rupees to help it double its network in India.  
 “There’s going to be a lift in valuations for tower assets
across the country,” Biyani said.  
 The deal comes as average revenue per user, a key metric in
the mobile-phone industry, is poised to fall 22 percent in India
this year after declining 25 percent in 2009, according to Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  
 Rates Fall  
 Price competition has cut some call rates to less than one
U.S. cent a minute, Merrill Lynch said. Only Pakistan and
Bangladesh have lower average revenue per customer than India,
the world’s second-largest mobile phone market, it said.  
 In addition to 48,139 mobile-phone towers, Reliance
Communications owns an optical-fiber cable network of 190,000
kilometers, according to a June 16 report from HDFC Securities.
Its customers include Tata Teleservices Ltd.,  NTT DoCoMo Inc. ’s
Indian partner, and Uninor, a venture between India’s Unitech
Ltd. and Norway’s Telenor ASA.  
 Emirates Telecommunications Corp. on June 7 said Reliance
is among opportunities it is “studying” in India.  
 Reliance is also considering raising cash by selling as
much as 26 percent of its Reliance Globalcom unit, which owns a
private undersea cable system, for as much as $500 million,
Hindu BusinessLine reported on June 17.  
 Reliance is the  worst performer  in the past 12 months in
the 87-company Bloomberg World Telecommunications Index, which
has gained 1.3 percent in the period. The company’s shares have
lost 36 percent over the past year, while GTL has gained 17
percent and the Sensex index added 20 percent in the period.  
 Cash Infusion  
 Details of the cash payout to Reliance and the share swap
ratios “will be finalized in due course,” GTL said in
yesterday’s statement.  
 The deal will lead to a significant reduction of debt at
Reliance through an estimated “cash infusion” of about 180
billion rupees,  Shubham Majumder , regional head of
telecommunications research at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Mumbai,
wrote in a note to investors today. The terms “will be sweet
for both the company and shareholders,” he wrote, raising the
investment  rating  on the stock to “outperform.”  
 The completion of the deal is dependent on GTL securing
funding, said Kim Eng Securities’ Shah. “It’s not something
that’s already been secured. So, theoretically that risk will
remain until the transaction is completed.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Jon Erlichman reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
