-- Rio Tinto in Contact With Gillard Government for Mining Tax Negotiations
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-06-27T17:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/rio-tinto-in-contact-with-gillard-government-for-mining-tax-negotiations.html

          
          
             Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
largest mining company, said it has been in contact with
Australia’s new Prime Minister Julia Gillard about a proposed
mining tax and will negotiate further.  
 “We are ready, willing and able to engage,” Tom Albanese,
Rio’s chief executive officer, said in an interview at the
 Fortune Global Forum  in Cape Town today. “I would like to see a
solution quickly. It’s in the interest of our business and the
Australian economy to get this matter behind us.”  
 Gillard, 48, who became Australia’s first female prime
minister on June 24, agreed to start talks with mining companies
in Australia on a proposed tax on profits that would raise A$12
billion ($10.5 billion) in its first two years. The plan had
sparked a storm of protests from the world’s biggest producers,
which threatened to scrap projects and curtail investment.  
 With increased cash flows this year, Albanese, 52, said he
would have invested more in Australia if it hadn’t been for the
“dampening” effect of the so-called super tax. Rio said on
June 1 that it was already paying its “fair share” of
Australian taxes after former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  vowed to
push ahead with plans to impose a 40 percent levy on profits.  
 “I want to have an honest and open debate,” Albanese
said. “Putting more capital into the industry, you actually
create more revenue, you pay more taxes, you pay more royalties,
and that in itself goes a long way towards balancing the
budget.”  
 A production joint venture between Rio and  BHP Billiton
Ltd. , the world’s second-largest miner, is still the subject of
“active discussions,” said Albanese, who declined to say
whether it will be completed in 2011. The two, opposed by
steelmakers in Europe and Asia, plan to combine mines,
railroads, ports and workforces in Western Australia’s Pilbara
region in a 50-50 joint venture to save at least $10 billion.  
 Following a two-month decline in China’s imports of iron
ore, Albanese said the outlook for iron ore prices remains
“reasonably healthy” for the rest of the year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        