-- Romania's Bailout Loan Will Be Reviewed by IMF June 30 After VAT Increase
-- Irina Savu
-- 2010-06-28T07:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/romania-awaits-imf-loan-review-as-government-raises-vat-to-plug-budge-hole.html

          
          
             The International Monetary Fund
board will meet June 30 to consider an 850 million-euro ($1
billion) loan payment for Romania after the government raised
the value-added tax to meet an IMF-mandated budget-deficit
target.  
 The government increased the VAT rate to 24 percent from 19
percent on June 26 to plug a budget hole created when the
Constitutional Court threw out a proposal to cut pensions by 15
percent. The IMF delayed its review of the lending program from
today, pending discussions on alternative measures.  
 “I am profoundly disappointed that we had to raise the
VAT,” Finance Minister  Sebastian Vladescu  said June 26 in
Bucharest. “This is not the best solution we could have had.
It’s not what we wanted.”  
 The government is relying on 20 billion euros of loans from
the IMF and European Union to stay afloat and must show progress
toward meeting the deficit target to avoid a second freeze on
payments. The Constitutional Court said June 25 that the plan to
cut pensions was illegal, though it upheld a 25 percent
reduction in wages for public workers.  
 Prime Minister  Emil Boc  said the IMF will review Romania’s
program on June 30, and he wants the VAT increase implemented as
of July 1. He also said he expects Parliament to approve wage
cuts next week.  
 The Romanian leu fell 0.2 percent to 4.2861 per euro as of
10:15 a.m. in Bucharest trading, dropping to the lowest since
Nov. 26. The currency dropped 1 percent on June 25.  
 ‘Reality Check’  
 The VAT decision “is a reality check,” said  Simon Quijano-Evans , head of emerging-market research at Credit
Agricole Cheuvreux in Vienna. It “essentially paves the way for
the IMF to approve the next loan tranche. We see the sell-off”
in the leu “as overdone.”  
 Government forecasts for gross domestic product and
inflation will have to be adjusted because of the VAT increase,
which will bring in additional revenue of 3.5 billion lei ($1
billion) to 4 billion lei, Vladescu said.  
 The IMF and government estimate GDP will contract as much
as 0.5 percent this year, after shrinking a record 7.1 percent
in 2009. The central bank forecasts the year-end inflation will
be 3.7 percent.  
 The VAT increase may boost the inflation rate to 10 percent
if correct measures aren’t taken,  Adrian Vasilescu , an adviser
to Central Bank Governor  Mugur Isarescu , told Realitatea
television on June 26.  
 Rating Risk  
 The loan payments will probably be disrupted and that puts
the country’s credit rating at risk,  Moody’s Investors Service 
said after the court ruling. The government’s flat tax rate of
16 percent will remain unchanged.  
 Moody’s Investors Service said last week that any delay in
the IMF lending program was probably temporary. Romania’s credit
rating may be reduced if the government isn’t able to cut the
deficit, Moody’s analyst  Kenneth Orchard  said June 25 in an
emailed response to questions. Moody’s rates Romania’s debt
Baa3, its lowest investment grade, with a stable outlook,  
 “Although it is not Moody’s central scenario, the rating
would come under negative pressure if the government is unable
to reduce the budget deficit to 6.8 percent of gross domestic
product as per its revised agreement with the IMF and EU,”
Orchard said.  
 The Romanian aid package was first frozen on Nov. 6 after
political infighting toppled the previous government. The IMF
resumed payments in February after Boc’s Cabinet passed a budget
for this year.  
 Opposition lawmakers appealed the austerity measures to the
Constitutional Court after the government survived a vote of no
confidence on June 15.  
 The opposition may ask for a further confidence vote next
week because “state employees will be severely affected by the
decision to cut wages,” Social Democrat leader Victor Ponta
said today in a speech on Realitatea television.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        