-- Shell CEO Sees Deepwater Drilling Continuing on Need for Energy Supplies
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-06-27T12:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/shell-ceo-sees-deepwater-drilling-continuing-on-need-for-energy-supplies.html

          
          
             Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said an oil spill from a  BP Plc 
well in the Gulf of Mexico, the biggest in U.S. history, is
unlikely to halt deep-water drilling.  
 “Our expectation is for it to continue,” Voser told the
Fortune Global Forum in Cape Town today. “This is really based
on our belief that the energy system going forward over the next
few decades will actually need all the energy” that can be
developed.  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  ordered a six-month moratorium
on all drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet in the wake of
the April explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig
and the subsequent spill.  
 On June 22, U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  ruled the
ban, which sought to give a presidential commission time to
study offshore safety improvements, was overly broad and
prohibited federal regulators from enforcing it. Four days
later, the U.S. government asked a federal appeals court in New
Orleans to delay the enforcement of that order.  
 Changes to safety standards currently under consideration
in the US are “pretty much in line with our global standards,”
Voser said. “We have revamped all our designs and safety
procedures. From a Shell point of view, we would not have drilled
this well in the same way” as  BP .  
 Voser defended Hague-based Shell’s record in Nigeria, where
its facilities have come under repeated attack by armed groups
seeking greater control over the west African nation’s oil
revenue.  
 “Shell has over the last five years delivered $39 billion
to the central government” in Nigeria, he said. “These funds
are probably not used in the best way across the Niger Delta to
increase the living standards. We cannot be stepping into the
shoes of the government.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        