-- Silver in Best Streak Since 1980 as Economy No Hurdle
-- Pham-Duy Nguyen
-- 2010-06-28T10:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/silver-posting-best-streak-since-hunts-no-matter-which-way-economy-turns.html

          
          
             Silver, the precious metal most used
in industry, is attracting investors betting on both faster and
slower economic growth as prices extend the longest run of
quarterly gains in three decades.  
 Doubling as a store of value for buyers concerned about the
economy and as an industrial material for those bullish on
growth, silver is outperforming metals from copper to zinc this
year and keeping pace with gold. It will rise as much as 15
percent to $22 an ounce before December, from $19.145 today,
according to  Daniel Brebner , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG
whose fourth-quarter outlook was accurate to within 0.7 percent.  
 While the Federal Reserve warned last week that financial
conditions are “less supportive” of growth, investors held a
record amount of silver in exchange-traded products backed by
the metal, Barclays Capital data show. Options giving traders
the right to buy the metal at $25 before Nov. 23 are the most
widely held on the Comex in  New York .  
 “Silver is really attractive because you have strong
investment demand and strong fabrication demand,” said Jeffrey M. Christian, the managing director of CPM Group, a research
company in New York. Silver rose 68 percent since he recommended
buying the metal in a Bloomberg interview in October 2008. “You
buy gold when you think the world is going to hell in a
handbasket. You buy copper when the economy is booming. In
between those two, if you’re a bit confused, you buy silver.”  
 All-Time High  
 The metal, used to create the first telegraph messages,
rose 9.5 percent since the end of March, heading for a sixth
quarterly advance. That’s the best streak since 11 consecutive
quarters through the beginning of 1980, a year after the Hunt
brothers tried to corner the market.  
 While gold reached a record $1,265.30 an ounce on June 21,
silver would have to more than double to get to the all-time
high of $50.35 reached in New York in 1980. Silver rose 13
percent this year in London, gold added 14 percent and the  London  Metal Exchange Index of six industrial metals fell 9.2
percent.  
 Silver will trade as high as $21 by the end of this year,
according to the median in a Bloomberg survey of 27 analysts and
traders. Open interest in the call options expiring in November
to buy at $25 was almost 7,200 contracts June 25. The next
biggest positions are the  call options  for $20 and $30 by the
same date, Comex data show.  
 ‘Accumulate Silver’  
 Higher prices may bolster profit for  BHP Billiton Ltd .,
KGMH Polska Miedz SA and  Fresnillo Plc , the biggest producers in
an industry forecast by London-based researcher VM Group to mine
22,793 tons this year, worth $10.8 billion at last year’s
average price.  
 “Silver is still below its recent highs and the
speculation has not run amuck yet in the precious metals
universe,” said Chip Hanlon, president of Delta Global Advisors
Inc. in Huntington Beach, California, who predicted in March
last year that silver would reach $20, something it came within
0.8 percent of doing May 13. “If you’re convinced of a precious
metals bull market, there’s still time to accumulate silver.”  
 Investors in exchange-traded products backed by silver held
a then record 12,680 metric tons by the end of May, the worst
for stocks and commodities in at least 15 months,  Barclays
Capital  estimates. They added another 43 tons to their holdings
this month as the MSCI World Index of equities was little
changed and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
gained 3.3 percent.  
 Plasma Screens  
 Half of silver demand, or 435.1 million ounces, goes into
industrial applications including electrical conductors, alloys,
solar panels and batteries, according to GFMS Ltd., which
compiles reports for The Silver Institute, a Washington-based
industry group. That compares with 12 million ounces for gold,
3.85 million ounces for platinum and 6.19 million ounces for
palladium. Industrial demand for silver will gain 14 percent in
2010, the most since at least 1988, Barclays estimates.  
 New applications such as plasma screens are compensating
for a drop in demand for film, now 9 percent of usage from 24
percent in 2000, data from London-based GFMS show.  Eastman Kodak
Co ., based in Rochester, New York, said last year it would stop
making Kodachrome film after more than seven decades.  
 Solar-panel installations may jump 44 percent this year to
about 33 billion watts of capacity, the Brussels-based European
Photovoltaic Industry Association forecast in May, enough to
supply about 66 million European homes. Crystalline silicon
solar panels use as much as 0.12 gram of silver per watt of
capacity. The metal accounts for about 35 percent of a silver-
oxide battery and as much as 40 grams of silver are used in a
32-inch plasma TV screen, VM Group estimates.  
 ‘Economic Downturn’  
 “We’re more surprised that the demand seems to be staying
ahead of this economic downturn,” said Frank Barber, vice
president of sales and marketing at Glens Falls, New York-based
Ames Goldsmith Corp., which supplies components for watch and
hearing-aid batteries and buys about 90 million ounces of silver
a year. “Probably the biggest jump we’ve seen is in the demand
for the metal for photovoltaic systems.”  
 Investors looking to protect their wealth should choose
gold, said  Charles Morris , a fund manager overseeing about $2.5
billion at HSBC Global Asset Management’s Absolute Return fund
in London. Pete Sorrentino, a  fund manager  helping to invest
$13.1 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, said
he bought silver in early May and will move that money into gold
by the end of July.  
 ‘More Volatile’  
 “Silver is materially more volatile than gold and it’s
less liquid as well so it’s kind of pointless to own it at all
unless it’s got some kind of relative value situation, and right
now I don’t believe it does,” Morris said. “We live within
difficult times, and therefore the best possible investment is
high-quality assets. The highest quality asset of all is gold.”  
 Silver futures traded in New York anticipate prices no
higher than $19.795 through 2014.  
 Group of 20 leaders over the weekend responded to the
European debt crisis with deficit-reduction targets and agreed
to pursue higher  capital requirements  for banks once economic
recoveries take hold.  
 Silver hasn’t always protected wealth when economic growth
faltered. Gold rose 5.8 percent in 2008 while silver fell 23
percent. That was still better than the 54 percent plunge in
copper and oil.  
   China , the third-biggest silver user behind the U.S. and  India , signaled June 19 it will relax the yuan’s peg to the
dollar to curb inflation. Copper and other industrial metals
rallied last week on speculation that would increase the
purchasing power of Chinese importers. The nation’s growth will
slow to 10.5 percent this quarter and 9.6 percent in the next
three months, compared with 11.9 percent in the first quarter,
according to the median of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Gold-Silver Ratio  
 The U.S. will grow 3 percent in the third quarter and 2.8
percent in the period after that, from 3.3 percent this quarter,
according to the median estimate of as many as 66 economists.
The  Federal Reserve  said June 23 that household spending is
being constrained by unemployment. The European Union pledged $1
trillion in May to ease the region’s budget deficit crisis.  
 An ounce of gold buys almost 66 ounces of silver. While
that’s down from 70 at the beginning of this month, it’s still
above the five-year average of 59. The higher the ratio, the
cheaper silver is relative to gold.  
 “Silver is still cheap,” said Gijsbert Groenewegen, a
partner in New York at Gold Arrow Capital Management, which
manages $600 million. “People say that it’s the poor man’s
gold. It will have to catch up.”  
 The ratio averaged 36 in 1980, when silver jumped to
$50.35. Nelson and William Hunt of Dallas were convicted in 1988
of conspiracy for attempting to manipulate prices and were
ordered to pay $130 million.  
 Mexico City  
 Investors’ demand for silver is also being reflected in
equities, with Fresnillo’s 30 percent advance this year the
sixth-best performance in London’s  FTSE 100 Index . The company,
based in Mexico City, will report earnings per share of 54 cents
this year, compared with 45 cents last year, according to the
mean of three analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
   Pan American Silver Corp ., the fourth-largest producer,
advanced 13 percent in Toronto trading this year. KGHM, which
also mines copper, fell 13 percent in Warsaw while  BHP Billiton ,
based in Melbourne, dropped 6.4 percent in London.  
 Demand for silver, which attracted buying from Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in the 1990s, is also coming
in the form of coins. The  U.S. Mint  sold almost 17.7 million
ounces of American Eagle silver coins this year, 28 percent more
than a year earlier, according to data on its website.  
 GoldCore Ltd., a Dublin-based bullion dealer, said second-
quarter sales of silver coins, bars and certificates offering
ownership of the metal at the Perth Mint rose more than 20
percent from the first quarter.  
 “The store-of-value component of silver has been a
positive,” said Deutsche Bank’s Brebner, the London-based
analyst who expects silver to rise as high as $25 next year.
“The industrial component has been negative and depressing the
performance but we think that’s run its course.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:  Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Pham-Duy Nguyen in  Seattle  at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bottles of pure gold and silver grains sit in a finishing and packaging room at Ohio Precious Metals in Jackson, Ohio, June 1, 2006. Photographer: Gary Gardiner/Bloomberg News.  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Silver bars  
                       
                         
                           John Guillemin/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Pallets of silver bullion await export. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Pallets of silver bullion await export. Photographer: John Guillemin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
