-- Osborne Targets U.K. Welfare for Sick, Disabled for More Cuts in Budget
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-28T13:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/u-k-s-osborne-targets-welfare-for-sick-disabled-for-further-budget-cuts.html

          
          
             Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  signalled cuts in welfare payments for the sick and
disabled as he seeks to implement the biggest squeeze on the
U.K. government budget since World War II.  
 Incapacity benefit  and a payment introduced in 2008 --
 employment and support allowance  -- will be targeted as the
government pushes more claimants to work. Osborne last week
proposed 11 billion pounds ($17 billion) of cuts in rent support
and other payments for the poor and jobless.  
 “Some of these benefits individually are very much larger
than most government departments,” Osborne told reporters
yesterday in Toronto, where he was accompanying Prime Minister
 David Cameron  at the Group of 20 summit. “Housing benefit is
one of the largest; in its own right it would be treated as one
of the largest government departments. Incapacity benefit and
ESA is also a very large benefit.”  
 Incapacity benefit and ESA are paid to 2.6 million people
and cost 12 billion pounds a year.  
 The work and pensions spokeswoman for the opposition Labour
Party,  Yvette Cooper , accused Osborne of a “return to the
Thatcherite 80s” and said the proposals would increase
unemployment and lead to higher costs.  
 “This is not welfare reform,” Cooper told BBC News
television. “It is simply benefit cuts. None of these proposals
will get a single extra person back into jobs.”  
 Pay Freeze  
 Osborne said last week that to meet a commitment to
increase spending on the health service and overseas aid, he
would have to cut the budgets of other departments by an average
25 percent in the four years starting April 2011. He also
announced a two-year pay freeze for public-sector workers.  
 “It is a choice that we all face and it is not a choice
that can be ducked,” Osborne said. “We have to look across the
piece at the welfare bill and of course we have got to look at
individual benefits.”  
 Osborne begins work on the Comprehensive Spending Review
this week when the Public Expenditure Committee meets for the
first time. The process aims to identify areas in each
government department that can provide savings. The committee
aims to engage with the public in order to get backing for the
cuts.  
 “People will see as a legitimate consultation and
engagement with the public,” Osborne said. “I know I am taking
on a big task here but I want to make our discussion and our
consultation a real one over the next couple of months.”  
 The government is also drawing up plans to provide
incentives for long-term unemployed people to move to areas
where there are jobs, Work and Pensions Secretary  Iain Duncan Smith  said yesterday.  
 Under the plan, jobless people in rented local-authority
housing in areas of high unemployment may be given top priority
for homes in other areas.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in Toronto or  gvina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne speaks at Mansion House in London. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne speaks at Mansion House in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
