-- U.S. Team Finds Fourth Comeback Is Too Much as Soccer World Cup Run Ends
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-06-27T00:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/u-s-team-finds-fourth-comeback-is-too-much-in-2-1-world-cup-loss-to-ghana.html

          
          
             The U.S. soccer team had to come
back once too often in last night’s 2-1 World Cup loss to Ghana.  
 To even get to the round of 16 game, the Americans had
overcome two one-goal deficits and got a last-minute score.
While they were able to recover from 1-0 in the first-half
yesterday, an Asamoah Gyan goal in the third minute of extra
time proved too much.  
 “We just dug ourselves one hole too many,” midfielder
Maurice Edu said in an interview at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium
in Rustenburg, South Africa. “Unfortunately we dug holes for
ourselves and we were able to dig ourselves out. Today we
weren’t able to do that.”  
 Gyan chased down a ball and fired it past goalkeeper  Tim Howard  to send the last African team in the tournament to the
quarterfinals.  Landon Donovan  had leveled the score in the 62nd-
minute with a penalty after Kevin-Prince Boateng put the Black
Stars ahead in the 5th minute. It’s the second time Ghana’s
eliminated the Americans in the World Cup.  
 The U.S. had scraped into the round of 16 with a Donovan
strike against Algeria in injury time. The team also came back
to tie against other Group C opponents England and Slovenia
after dropping goals early on. The U.S., contesting its ninth
World Cup, conceded the two earliest goals of the tournament.  
 “When you go down early in overtime it’s just a case where
you’ve put yourself into that spot once too many times and
you’re expending a lot of energy,” coach  Bob Bradley  told
reporters after the match. “We hurt ourselves with giving up
the early goal again.”  
 Tired  
 The Americans got tired after going behind so early as the
Ghana team controlled the ball, L.A. Galaxy midfielder Donovan
said in a televised interview.  
 “We were a little naive tonight and at this level you
can’t do that,” Donovan said. “It’s frustrating considering
all the work we’ve put in.”  
 The thousands of vocal Americans, many of whom were painted
in blue, white and red and were draped in the Stars and Stripes,
fell silent after Gyan’s strike. Former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  and Rolling  Stone Mick Jagger  were among the 34,976
spectators in the stadium.  
 Ghana, which is in the quarterfinals in its second
appearance at the tournament, will play Uruguay in Johannesburg
on July 2. The South Americans advanced by beating South Korea
2-1 on two Luis Suarez strikes in Port Elizabeth yesterday.  
 African Torchbearer  
 The Black Stars succeeded by scoring more than once for the
first time in 13 games. Even with the offensive woes, it was the
only one of the six African teams in the tournament to advance
to the round of 16.  
 “We fought for the continent,” man of the match Andre
Ayew told reporters. “We fought for Ghana. We have made the
continent proud.”  
 Ayew and Jonathan Mensah got yellow cards, which means they
will miss the next match, while goal-scorer Boateng came off
after 78 minutes and may be unfit to play against the Latin
Americans.  
 The missing players will be “the major problem we are
facing in the game against Uruguay,” coach Milovan Rajevac told
reporters. “We are going to react very fast and try and have
all players ready. There is a lot of work for our medical staff.
That’ll be the most important thing to do in the six days.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        