-- Turkey Growth Surge Claws Back Most of Output Lost after Lehman Collapse
-- Steve Bryant
-- 2010-06-27T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/turkey-growth-surge-claws-back-most-of-output-lost-after-lehman-collapse.html

          
          
             Turkey’s  economy  probably grew at
the fastest pace in almost six years in the first quarter,
clawing back most of the output lost after the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  
 Growth accelerated to an annual 11 percent from 6 percent
in the previous three months, according to the median estimate
of 11 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. That would be the
second-fastest growth among the Group of 20 major economies,
lagging behind only China. The statistics office will release
the figures in Ankara at 10 a.m. on June 30.  
 The economy is recovering from a 14.5 percent slump a year
ago as record-low interest rates revive spending by Turkish
consumers and companies. Arcelik AS and Istanbul-based  Akbank
TAS  are among the companies that reported a surge in first-
quarter profit. The main share index has more than doubled from
a low on Nov. 20, 2008, two months after Lehman registered the
biggest U.S. bankruptcy.  
 “The impact of the crisis was hard but the recovery has
also been relatively fast,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for
Turkey, the Middle East and North Africa at Morgan Stanley in
London, said in a telephone interview. “There’s clearly a pick-
up in domestic demand.”  
 The National 100 share  index  in Istanbul gained 5.2 percent
in dollar terms in the first quarter, more than double the
increase on the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index . Net income at
Istanbul-based  Arcelik , which makes home appliances, doubled
from a year earlier to 109.6 million liras ($70 million) in the
first quarter. Akbank, in which Citigroup Inc. holds 20 percent,
said profit jumped 56 percent to 967.8 million liras.  
 Rates Slashed  
 Economic recovery is key to Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s bid to win a third term in elections that must be held
before July next year. The country survived the global crisis
without bailing out any banks and this year Erdogan ended loan
talks with the International Monetary Fund, saying it can meet
its borrowing needs without external assistance.  
 Central Bank Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  has kept the  benchmark
interest rate  unchanged for seven months after slashing it by
10.25 percentage points in the 13 months through November last
year. The bank aims to keep it at the present level of 7 percent
“for a while longer,” partly because of the debt crisis in
Europe, the market for about half of Turkey’s exports, it said
on June 17.  
 The government is preparing to raise its forecast of 3.5
percent expansion for the year, Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  told parliament’s planning and budget committee on June
18. The IMF expects growth of 6.3 percent.  
 Unemployment  
 The government forecasts a slowdown in growth later this
year because of the European debt crisis and as unemployment
remains above pre-crisis levels. First-quarter growth of about
12 percent will “moderate” in the rest of the year, Finance
Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said on June 3.  
 “It’s a fairly impressive recovery,” Aksoy said. “The
problem is that it’s going to be relatively jobless and I don’t
think the man on the street really feels it.”  
 The  unemployment  rate declined to 14.4 percent in the first
quarter from 16.1 percent a year earlier, the highest since
records began in 2005. It’s still above the five-year average
rate of 11.1 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        