-- Vettel Wins Europe Grand Prix; Hamilton Second to Extend Lead in Standings
-- Peter-Joseph Hegarty
-- 2010-06-27T18:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/vettel-wins-europe-grand-prix-hamilton-second-to-extend-lead-in-standings.html

          
          
             Sebastian Vettel  of Red Bull won
today’s European Grand Prix in Valencia from pole position, to
climb two places to third in the Formula One drivers’ standings.  
 McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton  was second, to extend his points
lead, while his teammate  Jenson Button  finished third.  
 Mark Webber  of Red Bull crashed out after a spectacular
collision with Heikki Kovalainen’s Lotus.  
 “It’s good to be back on a circuit where we didn’t expect
to be that strong, and quick enough, at all times in the race,
to slightly pull away and find a gap to carry the car home,”
Vettel told reporters.  
 Hamilton, third on the grid, started by overtaking Webber
in the opening seconds to go second while the Australian soon
dropped back to ninth. Then a slow pit stop for tires set Webber
back further before the crash put him out of the race on lap 10
of 57.  
 His car hit the back of Kovalainen’s, flew into the air,
flipped upside down and crashed into the trackside tire wall.
Webber was able to walk away from the incident, as the safety
car came on to the track.  
 “Most important today is the fact that Mark had quite a
big shunt and the fact is he is fine,” Vettel said. “It shows
the cars are safer and safer but there’s still a risk.”  
 Hamilton had a drive-through penalty for overtaking the
safety car, but was still able to keep second place behind
Vettel.  
 Narrowed Gap  
 As the race entered the final laps, Hamilton narrowed the
gap but was unable to create an overtaking opportunity to stop
the German getting his second win this season. It was his first
from four pole positions.  
 It was the eighth time from nine races this season that Red
Bull has been on pole, and the team’s fourth win of the season.  
 Rubens Barrichello  of Williams was fourth, followed by
 Robert Kubica  of Renault and Adrian Sutil of Force India.  
 Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  moved up a place to eighth as a
result of five-second time penalties imposed on some drivers for
violating safety-car rules.  
 Hamilton leads the standings on 127 points, followed by
Button on 121, Vettel on 115, Webber 103 and Alonso with 98.
McLaren leads the constructors’ event on 248, with Red Bull on
218 and Ferrari 165.  
 The next race in a 19-event series, the British Prix, is at
Silverstone, England, on July 11.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        