-- Wall Street Hiring Jumps as Guaranteed Bonuses Return
-- Michael J. Moore
-- 2010-06-28T15:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/wall-street-hiring-increases-most-since-2008-as-guaranteed-bonuses-return.html

          
          
             Leverage is back on Wall Street --
and this time it’s the bankers who have it.  
 Firms are adding jobs for the first time in two years,
rebuilding businesses cut during the financial crisis and
offering guaranteed payouts to lure top bankers. In New York,
6,800 financial-industry positions were added from the end of
February through May, the largest three-month increase since
2008, according to the  New York State Department of Labor .  
 Morgan Stanley and  Citigroup Inc . are among banks that are
hiring to replenish their ranks, while  Nomura Holdings Inc . and  Jefferies Group Inc . have been recruiting talent from larger
firms in a bid to increase their standing on Wall Street.  
 “Candidates are now getting multiple offers, and companies
risk losing their desired candidates if they don’t act quickly
enough -- and that’s a real change,” said Constance Melrose,
managing director of eFinancialCareers  North America , which has
seen a 75 percent rise in  investment banking  jobs posted on its
website from a year earlier.  
 The removal of uncertainty regarding Congress’s financial
reform bill may reinforce the hiring rebound. A deal reached by
members of a House and Senate conference last week diluted
provisions from the tougher Senate bill, limiting rather than
prohibiting the ability of federally insured banks to trade
derivatives and invest in  hedge funds  or private-equity funds.  
 Increased Headcount  
 Five of the largest banks on Wall Street --  Bank of America
Corp ., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
and Morgan Stanley -- increased their total headcount in the
first quarter, the first three-month jump since the start of
2009, when Bank of America purchased Merrill Lynch & Co. The
five banks posted combined net income of $16.2 billion in the
first quarter, and three reported record fixed-income trading
revenue. It was the highest combined profit for the banks since
the second quarter of 2007.  
   New York City  had 429,000 financial jobs as of May 31, up
from 422,200 in February, according to the Department of Labor
data. That’s still down from the peak of 473,800 in August 2007,
the data show.  
 “The overall mood on Wall Street is significantly better
than it was last year,” said Richard Lipstein, a managing
director at Boyden Global Executive Search Ltd. in New York.
“Hiring comes down to what products are increasingly active,
and there has been some pent-up demand for people, and that
demand follows increased optimism.”  
   Morgan Stanley , Citigroup  
 Firms are paying 30 percent to 40 percent more than what
employees are expecting to earn to lure them from other banks
this year, according to an April report from  Options Group , a
New York-based executive search and compensation consulting
company. Equity derivatives and commodities trading are two of
the fastest-growing areas, the report said.  
 Morgan Stanley, which added about 400 employees to its
sales and trading business over the last year, has recruited
financial institutions banker David Heaton, 43, along with
Michael Johnson and Jonathan Cox in the natural resources group,
from  Deutsche Bank AG . The New York-based bank also hired Gary Shedlin, 46, from Citigroup in March to be a vice chairman in
its investment banking division.  
 Citigroup hired Deutsche Bank’s co-head of Americas
financial institutions, Peter Babej, 47. Last month, Zurich-
based Credit Suisse AG hired Andrew Horrocks from Moelis & Co.
less than a year after he had joined the boutique investment
bank from  Switzerland ’s  UBS AG .  
 Private Bankers  
 Firms are also adding bankers who sell loans and investment
advice to their wealthiest clients. Morgan Stanley Smith Barney,
the world’s largest brokerage, plans to hire about 150 private
bankers. Citigroup has hired about 15 private bankers since
March and will add another 115 over the next several years,
spokesman Mark Costiglio said in an interview.  
 Morgan Stanley’s headcount reached a record of 62,211 in
the first quarter as a result of new hires and the addition of
Smith Barney workers after it bought a controlling stake in a
brokerage joint venture last year, according to company filings.  
 Goldman Sachs increased its employment rolls in the quarter
by 600, to 33,100, still below the peak of 37,600 in the third
quarter of 2008. Bank of America and JPMorgan, which added to
their headcounts in the first three months of the year, remain
below their highest levels. Citigroup has reduced its headcount
by more than 100,000 since its peak in 2007 as the firm has sold
businesses and cut costs.  
 ‘Hiring Opportunity’  
 Measures in the financial reform will lead to the largest
U.S. banks getting even bigger, Citigroup Chairman Richard Parsons said today.  
 “They will make it tougher for smaller competitors, and
the big are going to get bigger,” Parsons, 62, said in an
interview at the Fortune Global Forum in  Cape Town .  
 Nomura, Japan’s largest brokerage, has hired 50 bankers in
the U.S. this year and plans to add as many as 35 more. The
Tokyo-based firm hired Mark Epley, 44, co-head of a group that
serves private-equity firms, as well as oil and gas bankers Jim Denaut and Michael Hill from Deutsche Bank.  
 Deutsche Bank has hired 40 senior people for its investment
banking and trading businesses in the Americas this year,
spokeswoman  Renee Calabro  said.  
 Jefferies has been one of the most aggressive firms,
increasing its headcount by more than 25 percent since 2008, to
2,821 from 2,241, during a period Chief Executive Officer
Richard Handler, 49, called “a once-in-a-lifetime hiring
opportunity.” The New York-based company has added about 200
people this year as it expanded its fixed-income and health-care
investment banking groups.  
 Guaranteed Bonuses  
 “We came from a period in 2008 and 2009 when it was much
easier to hire because the larger players were broken and people
were disillusioned,” Handler said in an interview. “Over the
course of the last year, the market has returned to stability,
new entrants are trying to hire people, and the hiring
environment is more competitive as people have more
opportunities for jobs.”  
 The demand for investment bankers and traders has led some
firms to offer pay packages as high as $8 million, including
guaranteed bonuses, which are paid regardless of an employee’s
or the company’s performance, recruiters said. That recalls  Wall
Street  compensation practices before the credit crisis forced
banks to cut more than 345,000 jobs worldwide.  
 “When markets fell to hell in a handbasket, people were
lucky to get a job with a base salary, and everything else would
depend on their performance,” said Boyden’s Lipstein. “As we
start to see people being recruited from one firm to another, as
opposed to being recruited from unemployment, the need to make
some kind of guarantee is becoming more necessary.”  
 Group of 20  
 While most new hires aren’t receiving guarantees, banks
including Nomura and UBS have offered top prospects one-year
guarantees paying between $2 million and $4 million, people
briefed on the offers said. Some managing directors have been
offered two-year guarantees, recruiters said.  
 In September, Group of 20 leaders discouraged bonus
guarantees longer than one year as part of guidelines on pay
practices at banks and other financial companies. They aim to
curb risks by aligning rewards with long-term success, after
executives at firms including Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. were paid millions of dollars in bonuses
based on trades that led to their companies’ downfall.  
 Employees are demanding higher salaries and more cash
upfront in expectation that firms will adjust their compensation
practices to satisfy regulators, said Melrose of
 eFinancialCareers .  
 ‘Good Old Days’  
 The  Federal Reserve  said last week that a review of pay
practices found many big banks to be “deficient” in curbing
behavior that helped fuel the financial crisis. Companies are
submitting plans to the central bank to address “outstanding
issues to ensure that incentive compensation plans do not
encourage excessive risk-taking,” the Fed said.  
 The financial overhaul bill should limit excessive bonuses
and lavish perks for Wall Street executives even if bankers
still don’t “get it,” Obama administration paymaster  Kenneth Feinberg  said.  
 “It will be very tough for Wall Street to go back to the
good old days,” Feinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  
 ‘Employee Power’  
 Still, even banks that aren’t providing guaranteed bonuses
are telling candidates to expect high payouts, said recruiters
including Ross Baltic, a managing partner at New York-based
Mercury Partners.  
 “There are firms that don’t have the ability to make a
guarantee or are adamantly against guaranteeing compensation,”
Baltic said. “Instead, they’re giving verbal guidance on what
compensation may be. They’re just not tying themselves down by
putting something in writing.”  
 The leverage held by bankers is affecting even those who
don’t change jobs. Travel bills are rising, Lee Whiteing, HSBC
Holdings Plc’s U.K. travel chief said earlier this month.  
 “Employee power is back,” Whiteing said. “Certainly in
investment banking we’re in a situation where it’s an employees’
market. Making them stay at cheaper properties, fly economy when
they could go business, is not going to wash. They’re just going
to leave us and go to another institution.”  
 While Mercury’s Baltic said hiring typically slows in the
second half of the year, several recruiters said clarity on
financial regulation could prompt hiring in derivatives sales
and trading.  
 “The banks know what they need, and they’re going to pay
to get it,” said Daniel Arbeeny, a managing principal at
recruitment firm CMF Partners LLC in  New York . “On the employee
side, there’s a high level of unrest right now.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec D.B. McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Wall Street hiring rises  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         James Gorman Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley added about 400 employees. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     James Gorman Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley added about 400 employees.
Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Wall Street firms are adding jobs for the first time in two years, rebuilding businesses cut during the financial crisis and offering guaranteed payouts to lure top bankers. In New York, 6,800 financial-industry positions were added from the end of February through May, the largest three-month increase since 2008, according to the New York State Department of Labor. Bloomberg's Jon Erlichman reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Lipstein, managing director at Boyden Global Executive Search Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about Wall Street firms hiring new employees.
     In New York, 6,800 financial-industry positions were added from the end of February through May, the largest three-month increase since 2008, according to the New York State Department of Labor. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Wall Street hiring jumps most since 2008. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Obama administration paymaster Kenneth Feinberg  
                       
                         
                           Melissa Golden 
                         
                         U.S. special master on executive compensation Kenneth Feinberg testifies at a House Financial Services Committee hearing in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. special master on executive compensation Kenneth Feinberg testifies at a House Financial Services Committee hearing in Washington. Photographer: Melissa Golden  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
