-- WPP's Chief Says Advertising Revenue From Soccer World Cup Is `Strong'
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-06-27T15:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-27/wpp-s-chief-says-advertising-revenue-from-soccer-world-cup-is-strong-.html

          
          
             WPP Plc , the world’s largest
advertising company, expects “strong” revenue from the soccer
World Cup, which is being held in South Africa, Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Sorrell  said.  
 “Audiences have generally been strong,” Sorrell said in
an interview in Cape Town today, where he is attending the
 Fortune Global Forum . “The sponsorship side has been strong,
stronger than people had anticipated.”  
 The FIFA World Cup tournament, the world’s most-watched
sporting event, is being held in Africa for the first time, with
South Africa’s government spending more than 40 billion rand
($5.3 billion) renovating stadiums, building roads and expanding
airports. The main sponsors of the event include  Adidas AG  and
Coca-Cola Co.  
 “It’s been organized superbly,” Sorrell, 65, said. “The
mood is very good. My guess is that the statistics will be up
significantly over the Germany World Cup.”  
 WPP earns about $500 million of revenue from its operations
in Africa, employing 13,000 employees across the continent,
Sorrell said. WPP’s  Scangroup Ltd. , East Africa’s biggest
marketing and advertising company, earlier this month won a
contract to rebrand Zain’s African unit after it was bought by
Bharti Airtel Ltd.  
 Sorrell said on June 24 that the advertising market has
recovered faster than expected, led by the U.S., and the
company’s 2010 revenue target of 2 percent growth is too low.  
 There are no signs yet that the European debt crisis, and a
decline in government spending, has undermined revenue growth,
Sorrell said.  
 “We’ve seen nothing, no effect from the euro-zone
wobbles,” Sorrell said. “It’s been masked to some extent by
the World Cup.”  
 Governments will probably maintain their fiscal stimulus to
support the global economy, Sorrell said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        