-- Fonterra Raises Payout 4.8% on Record Dairy Prices
-- Gavin Evans
-- 2007-05-04T01:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-04/fonterra-raises-payout-4-8-on-record-dairy-prices-update1-.html

          
          
             Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world's biggest dairy exporter, increased the amount it pays
farmers who supply it with milk by 4.8 percent citing record
global prices.  
 Farmers will get NZ$4.35 ($3.20) for each kilogram of milk
solids supplied in the year ending May 31, up from an earlier
forecast NZ$4.15, the Auckland-based company said in a statement
to the New Zealand stock exchange. Assuming current exchange
rates hold, Fonterra will pay more than NZ$5 a kilogram next
season, Chairman Henry van der Heyden said in the statement.  
 Fonterra accounts for about 40 percent of the international
trade in dairy products, selling more than $8 billion of yogurt,
cheese, and snack foods in 140 countries under the Anchor,
Fernleaf and Anlene brands. Rising demand and reduced supply
from  Australia  have pushed skim milk powder prices through $4000
a ton, Auckland-based ASB Bank Ltd. said last week.  
 ``There is strong demand in the market that Fonterra has
been well placed to meet with good milk flows through the latter
part of the season,'' van der Heyden said. ``As we secure
contracts at new record prices we are able to pass on the gains
to farmers.''  
 World dairy prices rose 55 percent the past six months and
are 38 percent higher than the record set in August 2005, based
on a Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd. index of U.S. dollar
prices. Production in Australia, the world's third-largest
exporter, fell 10 percent in March from a year earlier because
of drought in its biggest farming regions.  
 Fonterra is owned by the 11,000 New Zealand farmers who
supply it milk. It divides its payout into a milk payment and a
dividend from the company's branded consumer products unit and
higher-value products of its ingredients arm.  
 The increase in the forecast includes a 14 cent rise in the
milk payment to NZ$3.84 a kilogram and a 6 cent increase in the
value-added component to 51 cents.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Evans in Wellington at 
 gavinevans@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        