-- Peru Miners, Government Sign Agreement Ending Strike
-- Alex Emery
-- 2007-05-04T23:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-04/peru-miners-government-sign-agreement-ending-strike-update2-.html

          
          
             Peruvian miners ended a five-day
national strike after accepting government proposals to raise
pensions and grant rights to subcontracted workers.  
 Union leaders and Labor Minister Susana Pinilla signed the
agreement during a press conference today in  Lima . Workers at
operations owned by companies including Doe Run Resources Corp.
and Cia. de Minas Buenaventura SA had been on strike since April
30, spurring a 6 percent rally in copper prices this week on
concerns the strike would disrupt global supplies.  
 Miners had sought a greater share of the record profits
producers are generating from surging metal prices. Peru is the
world's largest producer of silver, the third-biggest in copper,
zinc and tin and fifth in gold.  
 ``This agreement aims to improve the situation for the
country's miners as well as end this strike,'' Pinilla said.
``We need to reduce the conflicts and increase productivity.''  
 Under terms of the agreement, the government will draft
legislation aimed at forcing mining companies to take more
subcontracted workers on the payroll and to increase pensions.
Companies must also agree not to fire workers who have been on
strike, Mining Federation Secretary General  Luis Castillo  said  
 60 Days  
 Workers at 33 unions on strike will have until May 7 to
return to work, Castillo said. The Mining Federation represents
70 unions and 28,000 miners.  
 ``The government must comply with these agreements within
60 days,'' Castillo said at the conference. ``We don't want to
threaten further labor action.''  
 Workers will continue to strike at  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) 's
smelter and two copper mines and Shougang Hierroperu's iron-ore
mine for higher wages, Pinilla said. The government will broker
talks between Shougang workers and company officials tomorrow,
she said.  
 Workers are also on strike at facilities run by zinc
producers Volcan Cia. Minera, Cia. Minera  Santa Luisa (LUISAI1)  SA and
Cia. Minera Raura SA. Workers at Glencore International AG's
Peruvian unit agreed to go back to work yesterday.  
 Copper, Zinc Gain  
 Southern Copper, Buenaventura, Shougang and Doe Run said
the strike has had little effect on their operations.  
 ``We're meeting contracts with our stockpiles,'' Shougang
Peru Deputy General Manager Raul Vera said in a phone interview
from Marcona, 380 kilometers (240 miles) southeast of Lima.  
 Peru produced 1.05 million metric tons of copper last year,
203,269 kilograms of gold, 1.13 million tons of zinc and 1.3
million kilograms of silver, the country's Energy and Mines
Ministry says on its Web site.  
 Copper futures rose for a sixth day, gaining 3.2 cents, or
0.9 percent, to $3.7585 a pound on the Comex division of the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange. Gold rose $5.30 to $689.70 an ounce,
and silver rose 2 cents to $13.53 an ounce on the Comex.  
 Zinc for delivery in three months rose $140 to $4,170 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange, and tin fell $25 to
$14,400 a ton.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        