-- Advanced Marketing Agrees to Baker & Taylor Purchase
-- Steven Church
-- 2007-02-12T21:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-12/advanced-marketing-agrees-to-baker-taylor-purchase-update1-.html

          
          
             Advanced Marketing Services Inc., (MKTS)  a
bankrupt book distributor for warehouse retailers Sam's Club and
Costco Wholesale Corp., agreed to sell most of its assets to
rival distributor Baker & Taylor Inc.  
 Terms were not disclosed. The proposed sale doesn't include
Advanced Marketing's small-publisher division, which will be sold
through a court-sanctioned auction, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  ruled today. Sontchi, in Wilmington,
 Delaware , must approve both sales, which the company said should
close by March 15.  
 ``Baker & Taylor is a recognized leader in the book
distribution industry and has the experience to seamlessly assume
operations,'' Advanced Marketing Chief Executive Officer Gary Rautenstrauch said in statement.  
 San Diego-based Advanced Marketing filed for  bankruptcy
protection  Dec. 29, three years after the U.S. Justice Department
and the Securities and Exchange Commission began investigating
its financial reporting and cooperative advertising practices,
according to court papers.  
 Two Advanced Marketing employees and one officer were
sentenced in connection with the Justice Department probe. The
company has resolved all of the shareholder suits it had faced.  
 Creditors Balk  
 Details of the sale to Baker & Taylor will be filed with the
court in Wilmington by Feb. 16, when Advanced Marketing said it
would ask Sontchi to approve the rules governing the auction. A
separate auction for the company's Publishers Group West Inc.
unit will be held Feb. 15.  
 Spokespersons for Advanced Marketing and Baker & Taylor did
not immediately return phone calls seeking comment.  
 Creditors objected to Advanced Marketing's initial proposal
to sell Publishers Group without the traditional bankruptcy
auction. They claimed the unit would draw a higher price in an
auction than from a proposed sale to Perseus Books LLC, a
distributor for independent publishers which has agreed to pay
approximately $20 million to creditors.  
 One creditor offered to pay Publishers Group's debts at 85
cents on the dollar, topping Perseus's bid of 70 cents.  
 The Feb. 15 auction will pit Perseus against National Book
Network, a unit of Lanham, Maryland-based Rowman & Littlefield
Publishing Group Inc.  
 $823 Million  
 No date has been set for the auction of the rest of the
company's assets. In that auction, rivals must bid higher than
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Baker & Taylor.  
 Founded in 1982, Advanced Marketing has two primary
businesses. The parent company sells mainstream books from the
major publishing houses through warehouse clubs. Publishers Group
provides marketing services and sells books put out by smaller
publishers, mostly through traditional retail outlets.  
 Advanced Marketing had $823 million in sales for the 12
months ending March 31, 2005. The company serves 1,078 membership
warehouse clubs in the U.S. and employs about 800 people.  
 Shares of Advanced Marketing fell 2 cents to 24 cents in
over-the-counter trading in  New York . The shares have fallen 93
percent in the last year.  
 The case is: In Re: Advanced Marketing Services Inc., 06-
11480,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        