-- Onyx Shares Rise on Report Nexavar Slows Liver Cancer
-- Lisa Rapaport
-- 2007-02-12T23:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-12/onyx-shares-rise-on-report-nexavar-slows-liver-cancer-update6-.html

          
          
             Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc.'s shares
almost doubled after the company said its only drug, Nexavar,
helped patients with  liver cancer  stay alive longer.  
 Nexavar is already approved for kidney tumors. The drug
worked so well in trials with liver-cancer patients that Onyx and
its marketing partner,  Bayer AG (BAYN) , will seek clearance from U.S.
and European regulators ``as soon as possible'' to sell Nexavar
for the added use, Onyx Chief Medical Officer Henry Fuchs said
today in a conference call.  
 The drug, which competes with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 's Sutent, costs
users about $4,500 a month, Onyx said. Nexavar had more than $100
million in sales during the first nine months of 2006. It could
generate additional revenue of $220 million by 2010 if cleared
for liver cancer, said  George Farmer , an analyst with Wachovia
Securities Inc. in  New York .  
 ``Investor perception of Onyx will shift more positively now
that Nexavar has proven efficacy in an indication beyond renal
cell carcinoma,'' said Farmer, who is based in New York, in a
note to clients today.  
 Shares of Emeryville, California-based Onyx jumped $11.89 to
$24.15 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading. The biggest one-day increase before today was 23 percent
on May 9, 1996, when Onyx began selling shares.  
 Nexavar is among a group of so-called targeted therapies
that pinpoint actions within cells that lead to cancer, rather
than using chemotherapy to kill tumors in a way that can harm
neighboring tissue. Nexavar works by choking off the blood supply
that feeds tumors.  
 Range of Cancers  
 Findings from the Nexavar trial, which compared Nexavar with
a placebo in tests on 602 people, will be presented at the
 American Society of Clinical Oncology  in June. Nexavar is also
being tested for a range of cancers including non-small cell lung
cancer and  breast cancer .  
 The approval ``increases our confidence that Nexavar can be
a broadly applicable drug'' for different types of cancer, said
Hollings Renton, chairman and chief executive officer of Onyx,
today in an interview.  
 Bayer, based in Leverkusen,  Germany , and Onyx split
development costs on Nexavar, and each company takes half the
profit from the drug in the U.S., Onyx said. Bayer gets more than
half of revenue outside the U.S.  
 ``We see a significant upside over our current opportunity
in the kidney cancer market,'' Renton said, although the company
hasn't made any public sales projections for Nexavar.  
 About 19,160 new cases of liver cancer will be diagnosed in
the U.S. this year, with most being in men, the  American Cancer
Society  said on its Web Site. About 85 percent are 45 to 85 years
old.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 Lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Simison at 
 rsimison@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        