-- Anglo Approached by Russians, Others Over AngloGold
-- Antony Sguazzin
-- 2007-02-21T16:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-21/anglo-approached-by-russians-others-over-anglogold-update3-.html

          
          
             Anglo American Plc (AAL)  Chief Executive
Officer Tony Trahar said the company has been approached by Russian
investors and other companies over its 42 percent stake in  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world's second-biggest gold producer.  
 ``We've had discussions with many parties, including the
Russians,'' Trahar said today in an interview in London. ``We've
had many approaches from people around the world.''  
 London's Sunday Times newspaper reported on Feb. 18 that
Russia's  OAO Polyus (PLZL)  may buy the stake held by Anglo American. It
didn't say where it got the information. Anglo American declined
to confirm or deny the report at the time.  
 In October 2005, Trahar said Anglo American planned to sell
its 51 percent stake in Johannesburg-based AngloGold, and in
March the company reduced its stake to 41.8 percent, currently
worth 37 billion rand ($5.2 billion). Anglo American has said it
will dispose of its remaining stake within three years.  
 An acquisition by Polyus wouldn't be the first investment
by a Russian company in South Africa's gold industry, the world's
biggest. OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, which spun off Polyus in January
2006, sold its one fifth stake in Gold Fields Ltd., the biggest
South African rival to AngloGold, in March last year. It had
bought the stake from Anglo American two years earlier.  
 ``We don't comment on rumors,'' Denis Davydov, a spokesman for
Polyus said in an interview in Moscow. ``I have nothing to add.''  
 Barrick Gold Corp. is the world's biggest gold producer.  
 Shares of AngloGold were unchanged at 331.05 rand in
Johannesburg, erasing an earlier decline of as much as 1.5 percent.
They gained as much as much as 5.7 percent the day after the Polyus
report, which was issued on a Sunday, when shares in South Africa
don't trade.  
 Anglo American shares  fell 66 pence, or 2.5 percent, to 2,536
pence in  London . Shares of Polyus rose 0.2 percent to $55.10 in
Moscow, giving the company a market value of $10.5 billion.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
John Dawson in London at 
 Hepburn@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at   jcarrigan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        