-- SEC sees more mutual fund disclosures
-- By  Rachelle Younglai
-- Tue Jun 19, 2007 11:21pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/20/businesspro-sec-roundtable-mutualfunds-d-idUSN1947242120070620

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The chairman of the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission said on Tuesday that there is 
opportunity to give mutual fund investors clearer information 
so that they know how much they are really paying in marketing, 
advertising and distribution fees. 

  "We want to make sure that while some fees are upfront such 
as front-end sales loads, other fees that behave similarly 
aren't disguised," SEC Chairman Christopher Cox said after a 
hosting a daylong round-table on mutual fund fees.  His comments come as the agency reviews how 401(k) savings 
plans, which many American use for their retirement savings, 
can provide clearer information to investors and whether mutual 
funds should stop charging distribution fees.  Lawmakers have been scrutinizing retirement savings plans 
holding hearings on whether the government should require 
clearer disclosures of fees.  Securities experts agreed that more could be done to make 
mutual funds more transparent but differed on how to do so.  "We are in favor of disclosure, but it is not necessarily 
more information... it could be simpler presentations," said 
Barbara Roper, director of investor protection at Consumer 
Federation of America.  Richard Phillips, a partner at the law firm Kirkpatrick & 
Lockhart Preston Gates Ellis, suggested a "unified fee."  "In terms of effective communication, simple is better," he 
said. "A unified fee is much simpler. For a great mass of 
investors it would be better understood and more susceptible 
for competitive comparison."  But Don Phillips, managing director at mutual fund research 
firm Morningstar Inc. argued against such a move.  Instead, he suggested that mutual fund expenses be divided 
into three categories: portfolio management costs, client 
services and administrative.  The SEC's round-table on mutual funds was targeted at 
mutual funds with 12b-1 plans that which allow the fund to 
charge distribution fees to shareholders.  The 12b-1 rule was adopted in 1980 after a period when 
mutual funds had been experiencing significant net redemptions. 
It was designed to stimulate fund growth, promote a more stable 
fund asset base and create economies of scale that would reduce 
shareholder expense.  But the use of 12b-1 fees has deviated from their original 
purpose of covering a fund's advertising and distribution costs 
and is now often used as a substitute for initial commission or 
sales fees or to pay administrative expenses, according to Cox.  Fee proponents, such as smaller mutual fund companies, said 
it has helped level the playing field.  "It really gives smaller mutual fund companies a fighting 
chance against the big guys," said Mellody Hobson, president of 
Ariel Capital Management. "It's not a small task for us on a 
daily basis."  Cox would not provide a time frame for when the agency 
would unveil proposed rules except to say "we'll take this one 
step at a time...We will probably propose something within a 
few months."