-- U.S. Charges 10 Men With Mortgage Fraud in New York
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2007-04-25T22:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-25/u-s-charges-10-men-with-mortgage-fraud-in-new-york-update3-.html

          
          
             Ten men were charged with defrauding
more than a dozen mortgage lenders, including Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.,  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  and Fremont General Corp., in a
scheme prosecutors said used buyers with fake identifies.  
 The leaders got loans through a mortgage brokerage they ran,
authorities said in a warrant unsealed today in federal court in
 Brooklyn , New York. The ringleaders created false identities and
credit ratings for ``straw buyers'' who bought and resold
properties, getting new mortgages each time, prosecutors said.  
 Names and Social Security numbers were supplied by
immigrants, mainly from  Bangladesh , to create buyers' identities,
Agent Joseph Moriarty of the Federal Bureau of Investigation said
in an affidavit. The men stole an estimated $7 million, FBI
spokesman James Margolin said in an interview.  
 ``Properties involved in the conspiracy are typically sold
once a year and accompanied by an appreciation in value of
approximately $100,000 per sale,'' Moriarty wrote.  
 Principals of the Queens, New York, brokerage, called New
Generation Funding, opened credit card accounts and built credit
ratings for the straw buyers, the government said. The men then
submitted mortgage applications with fraudulent employment and
income information, prosecutors said.  
 The ``straw buyers,'' using multiple identities to purchase
real estate, were paid about $5,000 a transaction, Moriarty said.  
 In Court  
 The three accused as leaders and seven named as straw buyers
were charged with bank fraud. Nine of the 10 were arrested and
were in court today before Magistrate Judge Kiyo Matsumoto.  
 Authorities identified the leaders as Mohammed Zubair, 27,
Mohitul Islam, 43, and Togor Makdhum. Zubair and Makdhum pleaded
not guilty. Others were awaiting arraignment.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Spector told the judge
Zubair, Makdhum and two accused straw buyers are in the country
illegally and immigration officials have placed a hold on them.
They will be held without bail, Matsumoto said.  
 The defendants face as much as 30 years in prison if
convicted and fines of as much as $1 million each.  
 An investigation started in 2005 when some lenders became
suspicious over the high foreclosure rate for New Generation
Funding mortgages, the FBI's Margolin said.  
 The object of the scheme was to obtain money on credit with
no intent to repay it, prosecutors said in a complaint. The men
inflated the appraised values of properties to drive up the
amount of the loans, the government said.  
 Kerrie Cohen , a spokeswoman for New York-based Lehman, the
fourth-largest U.S. securities firm, declined to comment
immediately.  
 Daniel Hilley, a spokesman for Santa Monica, California-based Fremont, a real estate lender through its Fremont
Investment & Loan, also declined to comment immediately. A
spokesman for London-based HSBC wasn't immediately available.  
 The case is U.S. v. Zubair, 07-521M, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        