-- Fidelity's own gifts probe seen softening SEC blow
-- By Muralikumar Anantharaman
-- Wed Dec 27, 2006 6:18pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/27/businesspro-fidelity-trustees-dc-idUSN2747153020061227

 

 BOSTON  (Reuters) - Fidelity Investments' move to reimburse 
its funds with more than $42 million, which it decided after an 
internal probe of improper gifts to its traders, should help 
smooth a resolution of the matter with federal regulators, 
industry experts said. 

  "Definitely," said Tamar Frankel, a law professor at Boston 
University, when asked if a resolution with regulators had 
become easier for Fidelity.  The Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASD, the 
regulators investigating the scandal, are likely to give a 
lighter slap on the wrists to "any accused who says, 'I'm 
sorry, I goofed, I made a mistake and I'm willing to pay 
willingly, and here's how I arranged it so that I will never do 
it again,"' she said.  Fidelity, which manages roughly $2.8 trillion in customer 
assets, said it concurred with the findings of an investigation 
authorized by its independent trustees. The probe found that 
its traders had "misdirected" business to brokers who lavished 
them with expensive gifts.  And even though the report found it was statistically 
impossible to prove whether fund investors were harmed, 
Fidelity said last week it would pay more than $42 million to 
its funds.  Jim Lowell, editor of independent newsletter Fidelity 
Investor, said it was "most likely" that Fidelity would have to 
pay a smaller amount as penalty to the SEC and the NASD 
"relative to the $42 million check."  Chairman Edward Johnson, whose father founded Fidelity 60 
years ago, called the report's findings "serious charges," 
apologized to investors and assured investors that the company 
had overhauled its business to ensure it would not happen 
again.  Johnson was also hopeful the agreement with the independent 
trustees would provide a basis for resolving the matter with 
the SEC.  "The SEC might accept the study that was done because it 
was truly done by the independents using an independent source 
to reach the decision they reached," said Geoff Bobroff, an 
industry consultant,  A Fidelity spokeswoman said on Wednesday there was no 
update to provide on the status of the SEC investigation.  Jefferies Group Inc. JEF.N, a mid-size securities firm 
that had courted Fidelity for business, confirmed last year 
that it had given several Fidelity traders gifts, including a 
private flight from Boston to Bermuda that cost $17,000.  The scandal made headlines when a dwarf named Danny Black 
said he was hired to be thrown around as entertainment at a 
former Fidelity trader's bachelor party in 2003 that was partly 
paid for by Jefferies, sullying Fidelity's formerly sterling 
reputation.  "It is very clear that Fidelity knows that in not just 
doing the right thing but in being perceived to have done the 
right thing ahead of the regulatory bodies, they have already 
basically resolved the issue from a PR perspective," Lowell, of 
the newsletter Fidelity Investor.  He also saw independent mutual fund boards growing more 
powerful now that Fidelity, which had in the past opposed 
giving more power to independent fund boards, has accepted 
their verdict in the scandal.  "The fact that Ned Johnson came out and said that they were 
in fact going to listen to their independent trustees and write 
their own shareholders a check for $42 million means that every 
single other mutual fund company out there is now on notice."