-- Adidas CEO says will not top Nike bid for Germany
-- 
-- Wed Dec 27, 2006 5:37am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/27/businesspro-adidas-nike-sponsorship-dc-idUSL275046420061227

 

 FRANKFURT  (Reuters) - German sporting goods firm Adidas 
will not enter a bidding war with rival Nike to keep its 
sponsorship of Germany's national soccer team, Adidas's chief 
executive told the Sueddeutsche Zeitung. 

  Kicker newspaper said earlier this month Nike had offered 
the German Football Association (DFB) 400 million euros ($528 
million) for an eight-year deal from 2011 plus a 50 million- 
euro signing bonus on top.  DFB had said it had received a "very interesting offer" 
from Nike for the period after its contract with Adidas expires 
at the end of 2010 but declined to provide further details.  In an interview published in the Sueddeutsche Zeitung on 
Wednesday, Adidas CEO Herbert Hainer said. "If we did that 
(enter a bidding war), everyone would say we were crazy. And we 
wouldn't do that."  The newspaper said Nike's offer was almost five times as 
high as what Adidas currently pays.  Last week, DFB President Theo Zwanziger said that choosing 
whether to remain loyal to long-time sponsor Adidas or to 
accept a lucrative offer from Nike would be one of his toughest 
decisions in 2007.  Zwanziger said Nike's offer was tempting because it could 
fund a lot of non-profit football activities in the country.  Germany is more closely linked to the Adidas brand than any 
other team, with ties going back more than 50 years. France and 
Argentina are the only other major national soccer teams still 
in Adidas gear.  Germany have won three World Cups wearing Adidas boots and 
enjoyed close ties with the Bavarian sportswear maker since 
founder Adi Dassler helped them win their first title in 1954 
with his revolutionary screw-in studs.  Sports goods firms battle to sponsor the world's top soccer 
teams because it enhances their brand image and boosts sales of 
replica wear such as jerseys.  Shares in Adidas were up 1.1 percent at 37.90 euros at 0958 
GMT, compared with a 1.4 percent gain in the German blue-chip 
DAX index.