-- McClatchy to sell Star Tribune for $530 mln
-- By  Robert MacMillan
-- Tue Dec 26, 2006 9:45pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/27/businesspro-mcclatchy-sell-dc-idUSN2640696320061227

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Newspaper publisher McClatchy Co. 
( MNI.N ) said on Tuesday it agreed to sell its largest 
newspaper, the Star Tribune of Minneapolis, Minnesota, for $530 
million to private-equity firm Avista Capital Partners. 

  McClatchy is selling the paper, which it bought for $1.2 
billion in 1998, to reduce debt following its purchase of the 
Knight Ridder newspaper chain this year for more than $4 
billion, it said in a statement.  The sale also will allow more flexibility to make digital 
investments and pursue other "new opportunities in the 
newspaper industry," the company said, adding it has no further 
plans to sell other newspapers.  It expects a future cash tax benefit of about $160 million 
related to the sale.  "I'm sure it will be surprising to many people, but we 
regard it as consistent with our kind of disciplined, 
clear-eyed and strategic decision-making that we've applied 
always," Chief Executive Gary Pruitt told Reuters.  "I think that the company will be better off, and that the 
papers will be better off," he added.  Avista does not plan layoffs, said OhSang Kwon, a media 
partner at the firm who was part of the deal.  James Finkelstein, another partner who was part of the 
deal, told Reuters that the most important parts of the paper 
are its people and its content. "We want to grow all that."  The sale agreement comes at a time of uncertainty over the 
future of newspapers, which face both falling circulation and 
circling private-equity companies.  The Star Tribune would be the latest newspaper to be taken 
private, and other buyouts could be on the horizon. The markets 
have hammered newspaper company stocks like Tribune Co. TRB.N 
and The New York Times Co. ( NYT.N ) as the industry faces tough 
economic times ahead.  Tribune is reviewing offers from several parties that could 
lead to the sale of the company or some of its divisions. The 
New York Times rebuffed an offer to sell the Boston Globe as 
well as a call from one of its shareholders to eliminate its 
dual-class voting structure.  The Star Tribune, like most other U.S. newspapers, is 
losing circulation as readers get their news and entertainment 
increasingly from the Internet and other media.  The Star Tribune's average daily paid circulation fell 4.2 
percent to about 358,887 readers for the six months ended 
September 30, 2006, from the same period a year ago, according 
to statistics published by the Audit Bureau of Circulations.  McClatchy in June sold 12 of the 32 daily papers it picked 
up in the Knight Ridder purchase. One of those papers is the 
Pioneer Press in Minneapolis neighbor St. Paul, which McClatchy 
sold to Hearst Corp. to avoid raising U.S. antitrust concerns.  The Star Tribune deal covers the paper as well as related 
publications and Web sites. The sale is expected to close in 
the first quarter of 2007, the company said in a statement.  (Additional reporting by Shailesh Kuber in Bangalore)