-- U.S. says Virgin America can't fly as structured
-- 
-- Wed Dec 27, 2006 5:08pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/27/businesspro-virginamerica-dc-idUSN2718215820061227

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - U.S. transport regulators said on 
Wednesday they had tentatively rejected Virgin America Inc.'s 
application to fly, saying its ownership structure did not meet 
a U.S. citizenship test. 

  The U.S. Department of Transportation said the low-cost 
airline, with a name made famous by British entrepreneur 
Richard Branson, did not meet the requirement that 75 percent 
of its voting interest be owned or controlled by U.S. citizens.  Virgin America said it would respond to the department on 
January 10 and demonstrate that it will meet the ownership and 
control requirements.  "We remain committed to getting our wings," said Virgin 
America in a statement. The airline had said last week it was 
expecting the rejection.  Virgin America has faced opposition from U.S. carriers such 
as Continental Airlines CAL.N, who argue that Branson's 
Virgin Group VA.UL effectively controls the airline in 
violation of U.S. law.  In rejecting the application for an operating certificate, 
the department cited Virgin Group's and its executives' 
pervasive involvement in the creation of Virgin America.  It also cited the funding Virgin Group provided to the 
carrier, various interlocking financial agreements, and Virgin 
Group's ability to influence decisions of the carrier's board.  The department added that the restrictive name-brand 
licensing agreement between Virgin Group and the airline 
impedes the carrier's independent, decision-making authority.  "... properly structured licensing or franchise agreements 
between U.S. and international carriers are now, and will 
continue to be, permissible," the department said in a 
statement.  British-based Virgin Group has stakes in airlines in 
Europe, Australia and Nigeria.  The company has 33 Airbus planes on order and was planning 
to start operation with just two to four aircraft, beginning 
with a San Francisco-New York route.