-- SEC says changing compensation disclosure rules
-- 
-- Wed Dec 27, 2006 3:56am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/27/businesspro-sec-disclosure-dc-idUSN2741531120061227

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission is changing the way companies disclose grants of 
stock option awards to executives, according to a press release 
on its Web site dated Friday. 

  How companies disclose stock option awards will now conform 
more closely to U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board 
(FASB) rule "FAS 123R," according to the SEC's press release.  That rule requires recognition of the costs of equity 
awards over the period in which an employee works for the 
award, the SEC said. Stock options often vest three to five 
years after being granted.  The SEC said the amendment would "give investors a better 
idea of the compensation earned by an executive or director 
during a particular reporting period" and would in some cases 
reduce the possibility of overstating compensation.  In the press release, SEC Chairman Christopher Cox said: 
"The new disclosure requirements will be easier for companies 
to prepare and for investors to understand."  The New York Times, which reported the rule change on its 
Web site earlier on Wednesday, said the amendment would allow 
many companies to report significantly lower total compensation 
for top executives.  The paper cited an example that under the old rule, if a 
company awarded an options grant valued at $15 million to an 
executive this year, the full amount of $15 million would show 
up in the summary compensation table.  Under the new rule, the amount reflected in the table would 
be much smaller, with the remaining part of the $15 million 
included in later years, as the executive qualifies to exercise 
the options.  The paper said it marked a victory for corporations that 
had opposed the rule when it was issued in July, and a defeat 
for institutional investors that had backed the SEC's original 
rule.  "It was a holiday present to corporate America," the paper 
quoted Ann Yerger, the executive director of the Council of 
Institutional Investors, as saying yesterday. "It will 
certainly make the numbers look smaller in 2007 than they would 
otherwise have looked."  The new rules are an amendment of requirements set in July, 
when the SEC voted 5-0 to order better pay disclosure, 
requiring companies to give a single number for an executive's 
pay, instead of a jumble of figures scattered across proxy 
statements and quarterly and annual reports.  The New York Times cited Cox saying in an interview 
yesterday that the change reflected what the SEC had intended 
to do when it adopted the original rule in July.  The SEC said it would be soliciting comment on the 
amendments for 30 days after publication of the rules in the 
Federal Register.