-- Top Wall Street jobs still elude women, minorities
-- By  Tim McLaughlin
-- Wed Dec 27, 2006 9:05am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/27/businesspro-wallstreet-diversity-dc-idUSN2743673220061227

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Even though Wall Street investment 
banks have made diversity a top priority for the past decade, 
it may take several more years before women and minorities gain 
a foothold in the ranks of senior management. 

  That forecast comes from industry experts, investment bank 
diversity chiefs and trends in hiring data.  Minorities and women continue to be squeezed in Wall 
Street's promotion pipeline when it comes to attaining senior 
positions -- those at the managing director level and above 
that reaped multimillion-dollar bonuses this year.  "The numbers indicate the squeeze is real," said Subha 
Barry, head of diversity at Merrill Lynch & Co. MER.N.  On an upbeat note, Barry said she would be surprised if 
Merrill Lynch's diversity in the middle to senior management 
ranks doesn't mirror in five years the composition of the 
company's board of directors. Its board includes several women 
and minorities, including Chairman Stan O'Neal, who is black.  In the past four years, Merrill Lynch's entry-level hires 
for diversity "are 100 percent better," she said.  "The top and the bottom have to meet. The middle is where 
the work has to be done," Barry said.  For nearly a dozen years, Barron Harvey has watched Wall 
Street put its best foot forward mentoring, recruiting and 
hiring black students at Howard University in Washington D.C.  Harvey has a front row seat as the dean of Howard 
University's business school. While there's plenty more to do, 
he said Wall Street companies have done a good job of 
increasing awareness among undergraduate and graduate students 
about careers in investment banking.  "Let's face it, banking is not a career that's promoted in 
high school or in the community," Harvey said. "You get 
exposure through someone who has reached out to you in high 
school or during your collegiate career."  Wall Street companies say they put considerable effort into 
building diversity within their ranks. "Our commitment to 
diversity is unparalleled," No. 2 investment bank Morgan 
Stanley ( MS.N ) says on its Web site.  Not to be outdone, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ( GS.N ), the 
world's largest investment bank, says its work force represents 
150 nationalities and speaks 84 different languages. "...At 
Goldman Sachs, diversity is a business imperative."  From 1993 through 2004, overall diversity at the management 
level in the financial services industry changed only slightly, 
the U.S. Government Accountability Office said in a report this 
year. African-Americans, for example, only increased their 
representation in management a percentage point to 6.6 percent. 
White females were at a little more than one-third.  In 2004, the share of management positions held by white 
women, for example, varied from a high of 41 percent in the 
insurance sector to a low of 27 percent among securities firms, 
the GAO said. Minorities held 15 percent of management-level 
positions in the brokerage industry, compared to 18 percent at 
commercial banks, the GAO said.  "We're starting to see a critical mass coming through the 
pipeline," Harvey said, referring to Wall Street in general. 
"But it will take time for the pipeline to show impact at the 
managing director level."  A 2005 diversity survey commissioned by the Securities 
Industry Association showed that women accounted for 44 percent 
of the industry's work force, up from 37 percent in 2003. Women 
account for 46.4 percent of the total U.S. civilian work force, 
according to the U.S. Labor Department.  "The fact that the percentage of white men is decreasing 
and the representation of women of all races is increasing is 
an optimistic sign that the industry is moving toward parity 
with the general work force," the SIA said.  Still, Adam Klein, an attorney at Outten & Golden LLP in 
New York, said there are several reasons why minorities and 
women may not see investment banking as a good fit. For one, he 
said they may not get paid the same as their white male 
counterparts for doing the same job.  Klein's firm represented former Morgan Stanley bond trader 
Allison Schieffelin in a sex discrimination lawsuit against the 
securities firm that resulted in a $54 million settlement with 
the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 2004.  "These diversity efforts don't say anything about 
compensation," Klein said. "That's the bottom line issue."  Klein also said informal networking, such as playing golf 
and strip bar outings-- also prevent equal treatment because 
minorities and women may feel uncomfortable in those settings.  "There's no way to monitor these because they operate 
outside the formal constraints of a company's diversity 
program," he said.  Others cite a lack of flexibility.  "They don't want fewer hours, but control over what they 
do," Sharon Hadary, executive director of the Center for 
Women's Business Research, said of women's tendency to leave 
corporate careers for entrepreneurial ventures.  "The second reason is that they didn't get an opportunity 
to influence the strategic direction of the organization, that 
no one listened to them," Hadary said.