-- UPDATE 6-Russia warns Europe of gas row with Belarus
-- 
-- Wed Dec 27, 2006 12:56pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/27/russia-gas-belarus-idUSL2749632720061227

 

  (Releads with Gazprom CEO, share price) 

  By  Andrei Makhovsky  and Dmitry Zhdannikov MINSK/MOSCOW  Dec 27 (Reuters) - Russia's state gas monopoly
said on Wednesday it had warned European customers of possible
cuts in supplies due to a bitter pricing row with Belarus.  Belarus had already threatened to disrupt the transiting
supplies, reviving memories of gas cuts to Europe last year in a
similar row with Ukraine, although Russia's Gazprom ( GAZP.MM )
sends much smaller volumes of gas to the West via Belarus.  Gazprom said it had offered big price concessions to Belarus
and could offer no more: "Gazprom is not Santa Claus and cannot
give such presents to authorities in Belarus," a spokesman said.  The monopoly had said Europe was safe as it had stockpiled
extra gas in Germany, but the firm's head Alexei Miller told
state television he had warned Germany, Poland and Lithuania
about Belarus' "destructive position" in talks with Moscow.  Belarus's contract expires on Dec. 31 and a Gazprom source
said some executives had been told to cancel New Year holidays,
adding: "It looks exactly like one year ago with Ukraine."
Gazprom shares were 1.5 percent down in London and up 0.6
percent in Moscow.  Belarus, whose President Alexander Lukashenko is accused in
the West of crushing human rights, has long been a Russian ally.  "We are inter-dependent. If I don't have a domestic gas
supply contract, Gazprom won't have a transit deal," Belarus's
Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Semashko said at Minsk airport
late on Tuesday after his return from failed talks in Moscow.  About 80 percent of Russian exports to Europe are pumped via
Ukraine, with the rest going through Belarus. Russia supplies a
quarter of Europe's gas, to more than 20 countries.  Relations with Belarus have soured due what analysts say is
Kremlin leader Vladimir Putin's distaste for Belarus's
Soviet-style economic policy and its reluctance to share
enterprises.  
  U.S. ACCUSATION  Semashko did not say whether Belarus was prepared to stop
all gas transit via its territory.  Two years ago, Minsk took no such action in a similar
dispute, but Gazprom accused it of taking gas from transit
pipelines for its domestic needs. Gazprom said it viewed
Semashko's latest comments as a new threat to steal gas.  The earlier row generated no major criticism of Russia in
the West due to Lukashenko's poor political image.  But last year, Russia came under fire from politicians in
the European Union and the United States following gas cuts to
Ukraine. The dispute accentuated rocky relations between Moscow
and Ukraine's pro-Western leadership, since tempered by the
return of a prime minister friendlier to Russia.  The sniping reached a climax when U.S. Vice President Dick
Cheney accused Russia earlier this year of using energy to
intimidate and blackmail smaller neighbours.  Some analysts say Moscow may decide against resorting to
cuts this year given the Ukrainian experience and the growing
importance of Germany as its top trade partner.  "Belarus has a very strong negotiating position with its gas
transportation infrastructure and we believe that Gazprom will
have to be very flexible with its Belarus pricing policy," said
Yelena Savchik from Renaissance Capital brokerage.  Gazprom says it cut is proposal to $105 per 1,000 cubic
metres on Wednesday from $200 previously, and offered to let
Belarus pay part of the bill in assets.  Belarus now pays $46.7, or as much as consumers in Russia.
By comparison, Gazprom will charge Moldova $170 in 2007 and
Georgia $235, while customers in Europe pay over $250.  For a factbox on Belarus click on [ID:nL27460633].  For a factbox on Gazprom's disputes [ID:nL27485235].


