-- Man Up, Climate Skeptics, or Miss Out on the Money: Eric Pooley
-- Eric Pooley
-- 2009-06-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-06-16/man-up-climate-skeptics-or-miss-out-on-the-money-eric-pooley.html

          
          
             So you still think global warming is
bunk? An eco-Nazi plot to jack up your taxes and control the
energy supply?  
 Get over it, my friend. Move on.  
 A cap on carbon emissions is coming whether you like it or
not. The science has made it clear that the planet is heating up
and we are to blame. And now that people who trust science run
the show in Washington, they’re trying to do something about it.
It won’t be easy. They even could use your help.  
 Yet here you are, feeling the bile rise as you read this
because you agree with what California Congressman  Dana Rohrabacher  was yelling the other day at a climate skeptics’
conference. (“ Al Gore  has been wrong all along! This is
outrageous! All of this is wrong!”)  
 You’re surfing the skeptic Web sites and reading up on
sunspots and the Medieval Warm Period, telling your Prius-
driving sister-in-law there’s no problem because it hasn’t
gotten any warmer since 1998.  
 Now it’s true that 1998 was a record hot year for the
planet, thanks to the combination of long-term global warming
and short-term El Nino. According to the  U.K.’s data , it was the
hottest so far. But according to NASA, which uses more complete
data, 2005 was hotter, and 2007 was just as hot, without any
help from El Nino. That’s scary.  
 Hottest Years  
 It’s the long-term trend that counts. The planet’s 10
hottest years since measurements began are all bunched together
between 1997 and 2008. And global temperatures, like markets,
don’t move in a straight line. You might call this a
consolidation before the next leg up.  
 But you wouldn’t, because you are dug in. That doesn’t mean
you are a conspiracy nut; your views are nuanced. Of course,
there has been some warming, you say. Of course CO2 is a
greenhouse gas. But there’s no proof it’s going to get as bad as
those scientists predict.  
 And yet if we wait to see what happens, it will be too
late. Arctic sea ice is melting, Antarctic ice shelves are
crumbling, and take a look at Australia. You won’t find many
skeptics left there, because a decade-long drought is drying up
the Murray-Darling river basin, with wildfires, heat waves,
ruined crops and dead livestock reducing tough Aussie farmers to
tears. The same thing is likely to happen in the American West.  
 Germany’s Last Glacier  
 You won’t find many doubters in the Alps, either. People
there are too busy stretching a giant tarpaulin over Germany’s
last glacier in a desperate attempt to save it from summer melt.  
 Read the signs. You do it so well so often. Aren’t you the
guy who called the top in Treasuries? Weren’t you the one who
made a killing in May, short the  dollar  and long commodities?
You learned years ago that it isn’t what you or I say that
matters, it’s what the market says.  
 So with a global warming bill heading for a vote in
Congress, let’s listen to what it’s saying about climate. The
global carbon market grew to $126 billion in 2008, according to
the  World Bank , doubling in a single year during an economic
meltdown. Once the U.S. starts a cap-and-trade system, the
carbon futures market might reach $2 trillion within five years.
What’s more, the much-maligned European Union trading system
actually cut emissions last year. This thing is starting to
work.  
 Invest in Future  
 So what’s it going to be? The past or the future? Buggy
whips and whale oil, or investing in what lies ahead? You can
cast your lot with the deny-and-delay crowd or join the coal,
oil and electric-power executives who are making a place for
themselves in the new world.  
 “We want carbon legislation,” a coal executive named  Fred Palmer  said last month, though he opposes the bill now before
Congress. “We want to create a market for clean coal to
penetrate.” Palmer is senior vice president for government
relations at St. Louis-based  Peabody Energy Corp. , the U.S.’s
largest coal company.  
 A decade ago, he was the force behind the Greening Earth
Society, which ran a public-relations campaign extolling the
environmental benefits of carbon dioxide. “Every time you turn
your car on and you burn fossil fuels and you put CO2 into the
air,” he once said, “you’re doing the work of the Lord.”  
 Today, his company has a stake in GreenGen, a huge Chinese
coal-fired power plant that plans to capture and sequester most
of its CO2.  
 The Lord works in mysterious ways.  
 “I’m still skeptical,” Palmer told me, “but what I think
about it does not matter. I don’t get a vote. People are
concerned. They’re telling us, ‘We will use your product but you
have to manage your carbon.’ So this is the only path we can
follow.”  
 Peabody Energy has read the signs and made an intelligent
business decision. Now it’s your turn.  
 ( Eric Pooley , a former managing editor of Fortune magazine
who is writing a book about the politics of global warming, is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Eric Pooley at  epooley2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photograph of traffic along the 110 Freeway in Los Angeles, California. Photographer: Jamie Rector/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
