-- Pirated DVDs, Books Dominate in China, Lobbyists Say
-- Christopher Stern
-- 2007-02-15T20:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-15/pirated-dvds-books-dominate-in-china-lobbyists-say-update2-.html

          
          
             Hollywood's top lobbyist said that
nine out of 10 DVDs sold in China are pirated and called on the
Chinese government to honor repeated promises to reel in theft.  
 ``It is impossible to travel in China without encountering
street hawkers selling pirated copies of the latest U.S.
films,''  Dan Glickman , chairman of the  Motion Picture
Association  of America, said today in testimony to a U.S. House
Ways and Means subcommittee.  
 The U.S. film industry says it loses more than $6 billion a
year to piracy, with China accounting for $244 million. The
testimony comes a week after the group, which represents studios
including Time Warner Inc.'s Warner Bros. and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,
held a one-day conference to highlight the problem. The industry
wants Washington to pressure China and other countries to
enforce copyright laws.  
 The International Intellectual Property Alliance, a
lobbying group for copyright holders including studios, software
makers and publishers, asked the U.S. Trade Representative this
week to keep  China  on its ``priority watch list.''  
 China was responsible for more than $2.2 billion in
copyright piracy in 2006, including software and published
material, the Alliance said in a report. The group didn't detail
film losses, which Glickman puts at almost a fourth of the
industry's yearly box office revenue of $23.2 billion worldwide.  
 Also testifying today was Association of American
Publishers Chief Executive Officer Patricia Schroeder, a former
Democratic Congresswoman from  Colorado , who said China puts
severe limits on book imports.  
 `Locked Out'  
 ``We can't distribute, we can't bring them in. We are
really locked out of the local market,'' Schroeder testified.  
 Although China has repeatedly vowed to crack down on
piracy, both lobbying groups say Beijing authorities have failed
to significantly curtail theft. Fast Web connections have made
it easier to ship an illegal copy of a film from one city to DVD
presses in another.  
 Subcommittee Chairman  Sander Levin , a Democrat from
 Michigan , noted the China agreed to police piracy as a condition
for gaining entry to the  World Trade Organization  in 2001.  
 `Unfortunately they have failed to maintain or follow their
commitments,'' Levin said in his opening statement today.  
 ``It is clear that the Chinese government has not devoted
significant resources to combat rapidly advancing Internet
piracy,'' the alliance wrote in its report.  
 Trade Restrictions  
 In addition to cracking down on pirates, Glickman is also
asking China to open its markets to more foreign films.
Currently no more than 20 foreign films a year are allowed in
Chinese theaters. Glickman said the Chinese government takes a
disproportionately large share of ticket sales for foreign
movies that are shown in China.  
 U.S. films took in $109 million in sales from China in
2006, Glickman said.  
 ``In comparison, over the last weekend, the domestic box
office was $108 million,'' Glickman said.  
 Separately, U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab
testified before the Senate Finance Committee today that the
 Bush administration  was poised to file a complaint with the WTO
against China over copyright violations. The plans were shelved
when China asked for more time to crack down.  
 ``The Chinese asked for more some more time, and the U.S.
industry felt that was a good idea,'' Schwab testified.  
 Democrats in Congress have urged Schwab to file a trade
complaint against China over piracy of films, music and software
in the world's fourth-largest economy. Makers of those products
have listed China as the major producer of illegal copies.  
 The companies urged the administration to back off on the
legal filing, Schwab said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stern in  Washington  at 
 cstern3@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Moody at 
 emoody@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        