-- FDA Denies Savient Request to Sell Krystexxa for Gout
-- Jeran Wittenstein
-- 2009-08-03T01:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-08-03/fda-denies-savient-request-to-sell-krystexxa-for-gout-update2-.html

          
          
             Savient Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SVNT) , a
 money-losing  biotechnology company whose only drug lost patent
protection in 2006, failed to win U.S. approval to sell a new
gout treatment because the regulator required more information.  
 The  Food and Drug Administration  issued a so-called
 complete-response letter  raising issues including the
manufacturing process of the medicine, Krystexxa, and guidelines
on evaluating the drug’s safety and efficacy, the company said
in a statement today. While 3 million Americans have gout, this
drug was developed for the tens of thousands whose disease
doesn’t respond to conventional therapy.  
 Gout  is a form of arthritis in which deposits of uric acid
build up around joints, causing pain, swelling and stiffness. It
was historically known as a disease of kings because obesity,
alcohol and protein-rich diets increase the risks. Krystexxa is
derived from an animal hormone that rids the body of uric acid
by converting it into a form that is easily excreted.  
 “We are committed to work diligently to address these
issues with a goal of obtaining final approval,” Savient
President Paul Hamelin said in the statement.  
 The company targets completing its resubmission in early
2010, Hamelin said. East Brunswick, New Jersey-based Savient
said it plans to request a meeting with the FDA to discuss and
clarify the issues in the regulator’s response.  
 Savient must include an update of safety data from all
ongoing studies in its refile, the company said in the statement.
An inspection report of the drug-substance manufacturing plant
is also required, it said.  
 Earlier Vote  
 An FDA advisory panel voted 14 to 1 in favor of approval of
Krystexxa, also known as pegloticase, on June 16.  
 Savient’s only other drug,  Oxandrin , for promoting weight
gain after illness or surgery, began facing generic competition
in December 2006.  
 Krystexxa may have U.S. sales of $300 million, according to
 Eric Schmidt , an analyst at Cowen & Co. in  New York .  
 Savient advanced 1.1 percent to $15.59 in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite trading on July 31. The stock has  gained  68
percent since the panel’s recommendation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net :
Jeran Wittenstein at 
 jwittenstei1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        