-- Rio Tinto eyes more spot market iron ore sales
-- 
-- Wed Mar 12, 2008 1:15am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/12/businesspro-rio-ironore-dc-idUSSYD27457320080312

 

  (Adds comments in paragraphs 7,8) 

  SYDNEY, March 12 Reuters) - World No. 2 iron ore miner Rio 
Tinto Ltd/Plc said on Wednesday it may sell more ore in spot 
markets, where returns still exceed long-term contract prices 
despite a big rise in the price some steel mills are preparing 
to pay.  Rio has been pushing its customers to pay a premium for 
Australian ore from the Pilbara region to compensate for a 
price differential on shipping costs versus material from 
Brazil's Vale.  "Despite repeated urging on our part, Rio Tinto iron ore 
from the Pilbara continues to be sold without the premium we 
believe it merits for being so much cheaper to import than iron 
ore from elsewhere, a fair return for the saving on freight, 
the natural premium of geographic proximity," Sam Walsh, chief 
executive of Rio's iron ore arm, told an industry conference in 
Perth.  "Until some recognition of the natural premium of 
geographic proximity is possible, and while the spot market 
continues to reward those without long-term benchmark supply 
contracts with customers, then we will do what we can to secure 
an appropriate return for our shareholders," Walsh said.  Contract iron ore prices are set each year by the big three 
mining companies -- Vale, Rio and BHP Billiton Ltd/Plc -- after 
closed negotiations with big steel producers in Europe, Japan 
and more recently China  Vale last month reached agreements with steelmakers to sell 
its ore for 65 percent to 71 percent more in 2008 than in the 
previous year. Rio and BHP have yet announce any price deals.  "There is nothing imminent, but we are patient people," 
local media quoted Walsh as saying at the conference.  "A couple of years ago it wasn't until June that the price 
was settled," he said.  Spot iron ore sells for about $200 a ton, versus around 
$108 based on Vale's latest agreements, while it costs roughly 
about $67 a ton to ship ore to China from Brazil versus $23 a 
ton from Australia, according to Australia & New Zealand 
Banking Corp commodities strategist, Mark Pervan.  "You can see why Rio wants to sell more into spot," Pervan 
said. "Right now they are leaving a lot on the table."  Rio had said in December it would become more active in the 
spot market while the discrepancy existed, announcing it would 
initially sell up to 15 million tons of iron ore at spot. 
Before that, Rio had little, if any, exposure to spot sales.  BHP has launched a hostile offer worth $139 billion for 
Rio, arguing both companies' operations would benefit from a 
unified group. Rio has rejected to offer, saying it sees plenty 
of scope to grow on its own.  Rio is expanding production at its Australian Pilbara iron 
ore operations to 220 million tons by 2009.  Rio said separately on Wednesday it has approved a $475 
million project to boost iron ore concentrate production at its 
Iron Ore Company of Canada (IOC) unit to help meet strong 
global demand.  (Reporting by  James Regan )