-- Gazit Globe, Citigroup Won't Make Bid for Meinl Land
-- Peter Woodifield
-- 2008-03-26T16:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-03-26/gazit-globe-citigroup-won-t-make-bid-for-meinl-land-update3-.html

          
          
             Gazit Globe Ltd. (GLOB)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
which last week agreed to invest as much as 1 billion euros ($1.6
billion) in Austrian developer Meinl European Land Ltd. in return
for a stake, don't plan to bid for the rest of the stock.  
 ``We are satisfied with our current stake'' of as much as
39 percent, Chaim Katzman, chairman of Tel Aviv-based Gazit
Globe, said at a briefing in Vienna today. Meinl aims to adopt
``an adequate dividend policy,'' and generate more rental
income, he said, without giving details.  
 Gazit Globe and Citigroup's CPI Capital Partners  Europe  LP
are investing in Meinl through convertible bonds and new stock.
Meinl, which hasn't paid a cash dividend since its listing in
2002, put itself up for sale last year after an unannounced
share buyback contributed to a slump in the stock.  
 Austrian regulators last year fined Meinl Land and the
affiliated Meinl Bank AG for misleading investors about the size
and timing of the 1.8 billion-euro stock repurchase and the risks
attached to investing in the company. Meinl Land shareholders are
preparing to sue Meinl Land and Meinl Bank for damages.  
 Litigation Risks  
 ``Litigation risks remain,'' and Meinl Land will make provisions
for potential lawsuits, said Shanti Sen, managing director of Citi
Property Investors. Citi Property is a unit of Citigroup.  
 The U.S. bank plans to keep its investment in Meinl for at
least five years, Sen said.  
 Meinl Land fell 23 cents, or 3.2 percent, to 7.05 euros in
Vienna today, cutting the company's market value to 2.1 billion
euros. The shares have tumbled 66 percent in a year.  
 It would be a ``waste if the entire company is sold right
now,'' because the new investors will improve the business and
increase cash flow, Katzman said.  
 Gazit and Citigroup's investment will allow Meinl to
complete shopping mall projects across central and eastern
Europe, according to Katzman. Meinl should again reach
``investment grade'' status from rating agencies, which would
allow the company to tap bond markets if necessary, he said.  
 ``We should be able to finance the 3.5 billion-euro
projects without external funds because they are hard to get at
the moment,'' Katzman said at the briefing.  
 Credit Rating  
 Standard & Poor's  yesterday left its long-term rating on
Meinl Land unchanged at BB+ with a negative outlook, saying the
transaction is subject to conditions and investor approval.
Today, Fitch Ratings also confirmed its ratings.  
 Improving the company's rating by one notch to BBB- would
give the company again investment grade status under S&P's rating
scale, making it easier for the company to attract investors.  
 ``Having enough liquidity is very important,'' because it
has become more difficult to issue bonds and take out loans,
Katzman said, and a better debt rating would broaden the
financing options for the company.  
 Gazit has no plans to sell its stake and its investment
horizon is ``infinite,'' Katzman said.  
 Gazit doesn't plan to move the company's legal base from
the Channel island of  Jersey , where Meinl is registered. Katzman
didn't exclude such a move in the future.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthias Wabl in Vienna at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        