-- Credit Suisse chairman defends one bank model: paper
-- 
-- Sat Jul 12, 2008 5:53am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/12/businesspro-creditsuisse-dc-idUSL1246373020080712

 

 ZURICH  (Reuters) - Swiss bank Credit Suisse ( CSGN.VX ) will 
not withdraw from investment banking despite the losses caused 
by the credit crisis, the bank's chairman said in an interview 
published on Saturday. 

  In the interview with the newspaper Basler Zeitung, Credit 
Suisse chairman Walter Kielholz also warned that tough new 
regulations in Switzerland for the two big banks might endanger 
their competitiveness and turn them into takeover candidates.  "The economic outlook for the coming three to five years 
and the expected investment risks for this time certainly 
suggest that we will take a conservative approach when 
providing our investment bank with capital," Kielholz said 
according to an online version of the newspaper.  Calls for the bank to focus on private banking alone were 
wrong as private banking clients wanted a broad range of 
services, Kielholz said. "That includes the investment bank."  Credit Suisse has so far written down some $9 billion in 
credit-related assets, far less than its Swiss-based rival UBS 
( UBSN.VX ), Europe's hardest-hit victim of the credit crisis 
which has a similar business model.  Kielholz criticized plans from Swiss regulators to impose 
stricter requirements on the two major Swiss banks.  The suggested leverage ratio or debt limits were not 
suitable instruments as they did not take into account the 
heterogeny of risks on the balance sheets, he said.  "If you use this system for highly complex financial groups 
it gets so confused that it looks just insufficient compared to 
the relatively well-thought through rules of Basel II," he 
said.  The head of the Swiss banking watchdog EBK laid out plans 
to introduce a leverage ratio and extra capital buffer for 
losses in a Reuters interview on July 1 and said they were now 
discussed with the banks. (For the interview double click on 
<ID:nL01424845>)  Kielholz criticized the fact that much of the regulators' 
plans was discussed publicly in advance.  "It irritates me if representatives of the watchdog create 
the impression that they do not care about the competitiveness 
of Switzerland as a financial centre," he said.  "If this were the case, the two big banks would be 
virtually offered for sale," Kielholz said.  The Credit Suisse chairman said the idea that rival UBS 
could be taken over was troubling. "The financial centre 
Switzerland needs two internationally successful banks to play 
a role in the international top league," he said.  (Reporting by  Sven Egenter , editing by Mike Peacock)