-- BP Well Manager Said No Warning of Blowout Before Disaster
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2010-09-26T23:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-19/bp-well-manager-said-there-was-no-warning-of-blowout-before-gulf-explosion.html
Halliburton Co.  defended its cement
work on the well that blew out in the Gulf of Mexico, blaming BP
Plc’s design work for the biggest U.S. oil spill.  Thomas Roth, vice president of cementing for Houston-based
Halliburton, disputed  BP ’s contention that his company’s cement
job let oil and gas flow up to the Deepwater Horizon drilling
 rig , contributing to the blowout on April 20.  “BP’s well design and operational decisions compromised
well integrity,” Roth said yesterday at a  National Academies 
hearing in Washington investigating the cause of the spill. BP
workers ignored “multiple red flags” indicating the well
wasn’t sealed properly and hydrocarbons could escape, Roth said.  The National Academies, which provide research on science
and technology, are studying the BP spill at the request of U.S.
Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar . The hearing yesterday, led
by a panel of scientists and engineers, brought more of the
finger-pointing by London-based BP and its contractors on the
Macondo well that has dominated congressional hearings and other
inquiries.  BP officials told the panel that Halliburton’s faulty
cement recipe let gas and oil escape to the surface.  BP tested the recipe used by Halliburton as part of its
internal investigation of the spill and said it didn’t contain
the correct levels of hydrogen. Investigators didn’t have access
to the cement actually used in the Macondo well that failed,
said Kent Corser, drilling engineering manager for BP North
America Gas, who was among a group of BP employees and outside
contractors who conducted the investigation.  Testing Cement  Roth of Halliburton said BP’s test didn’t use the same
materials Halliburton put in its cement and followed a different
manufacturing technique.  BP said the company’s well design wasn’t an issue. “We
think it was a robust design,” Corser said.  Errors Halliburton cited included a decision to use six
devices to center the drill pipe within the well instead of 21,
the number that Roth said his company recommended. Using fewer
of these centralizers made it more difficult for the cement to
seal the pipe, he said.  Corser said BP workers on the rig mistakenly believed that
15 additional centralizers flown to the drill site were the
wrong type to be used in the well. They proceeded with six of
them.  The decision didn’t contribute to the blowout because the
hydrocarbons flowed up through the pipe and not around the
sides, according to Corser.  Pulling ‘Red Cord’  Donald Winter , an  engineering professor  at the University
of Michigan and chairman of the panel, asked Roth why
Halliburton proceeded if it feared the cementing would fail
because of a bad well design.  “Why didn’t you pull the red cord?” Winter, a former Navy
secretary, said.  Halliburton officials “didn’t see it to be an unsafe
operation as it was being executed,” Roth said. He described
the drilling operation as “challenging,” and said BP had
“ultimate decision responsibility.”  Mark Bly, BP’s head of safety and operations who led the
company’s investigation, called the accident “a multibarrier
failure incident.”  Mark Zoback , a professor of geophysics at Stanford
University in California, asked whether BP’s “single
completion” well design was “doomed to fail” because of the
different pressures of the three reservoirs it drilled into.  Corser said BP models verified the company’s plan.  Rock Formations  Zoback said rock formations at the bottom of the well may
have broken apart, making it more difficult to close the pipe.  Panel members also pressed BP officials to describe the
chain of command at the company. Bly said the report the company
released Sept. 9 didn’t examine whether organizational failings
at BP may have contributed to the spill and wasn’t meant to be
the final word on the disaster.  “This doesn’t represent complete penetration into
potentially deeper issues,” Bly said of the BP report, which
placed much of the blame for mistakes that contributed to the
largest U.S. oil spill on rig owner  Transocean Ltd.  and on
Halliburton.  Najmedin Meshkati , a civil engineering professor at the
University of Southern California and panel member, asked BP for
more information on the tasks rig workers were required to
perform and communications between the rig and onshore
facilities.  Winter said the National Academies panel would issue an
interim report in the next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 Jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Larry Liebert  at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  