-- Index of U.S. Leading Economic Indicators Rose 0.3% in August
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-09-23T14:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-19/index-of-u-s-leading-economic-indicators-increase-0-1-in-sign-of-slowing.html
The index of U.S. leading
indicators rose in August more than forecast, signaling the
economy will keep expanding through early next year.  The 0.3 percent gain in the New York-based Conference
Board’s gauge of the prospects for the economy in the next three
to six months follows a 0.1 percent increase in July. The index
was forecast to rise 0.1 percent, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 56 economists.  A longer factory workweek, higher stock prices and a gain
in building permits were among the reasons for the increase in
the index. Federal Reserve policy makers this week said growth
is likely to be “modest in the near term” and added they are
prepared to ease monetary policy further if needed to support
the recovery.  “Leading indicators is showing that growth will continue,
but at about a 2 percent pace,”  Ellen Zentner , a senior
economist at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York, said
before the report.  The index gained 0.7 percent on average in the 12 months
through June. Estimates for the change in the index in August
ranged from a decline of 0.4 percent to a gain of 0.5 percent,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  Sales of existing homes rose in August to the second-lowest
level on record and applications for unemployment benefits
unexpectedly rose last week, separate reports showed today.  Purchases of existing houses climbed to a 4.13 million
annual pace, in line with the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and second only to July’s 3.84
million rate as the weakest in a decade’s worth of data, the
National Association of Realtors said.  Jobless Claims  Initial jobless claims increased by 12,000 to 465,000 in
the week ended Sept. 18, according to the Labor Department.  Stocks trimmed losses after the reports on home sales and
leading indicators, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  falling
0.4 percent to 1,129.57 at 10:14 a.m. in New York. Treasuries
rose, pushing the yield on the 10-year note down four basis
points to 2.52 percent.  Seven of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the gain in August, led by the spread between the federal
funds rate and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note and an
increase in money supply.  Three components weighed on the index, including rising
jobless claims, a drop in manufacturing supplier deliveries and
manufacturers’ orders for consumer goods.  Coincident Indicators  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, was unchanged in August
after a 0.1 percent gain the previous month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the National Bureau of
Economic Research to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based group this week said
the worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended in
June 2009, lasting 18 months.  The index of leading indicators began rising in April 2009,
while the Conference Board’s coincident index turned positive in
July 2009 after posting negative readings since January 2008.  The gauge of lagging indicators increased 0.2 percent last
month. The index measures business lending, length of
unemployment, service prices and ratios of labor costs,
inventories and consumer credit.  Fed Statement  The Federal Open Market Committee said “the pace of
economic recovery is likely to be modest in the near term”
after its Sept. 21 meeting, adding that it is “prepared to
provide additional accommodation if needed” to support the
economic recovery and prices.  The FOMC kept its  benchmark interest rate  in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent and maintained its policy of reinvesting
principal payments from its securities holdings into U.S.
Treasuries to keep money from draining out of the financial
system.  The economy will likely be the top issue in the November
mid-term elections, with polls indicating the Democrats are at
risk of losing both houses of Congress.  Republican lawmakers are critical of President  Barack Obama ’s overhaul of the health-care system and financial
regulations, and they say the $814 billion stimulus measure has
done little to boost growth or create jobs.  Jobless Rate  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg this month forecast the
unemployment rate will average 9.6 percent in the second half of
the year while economic growth would average 2.1 percent after
the first half’s average 2.65 percent pace.  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims, building
permits, consumer expectations, the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times.  The Conference Board estimates new orders for consumer
goods, bookings for capital goods and the money supply adjusted
for inflation.  Automakers including  Ford Motor Co . are among manufacturers
seeing sales picking up while holding below pre-recession
levels.  “The auto business is pretty steady and coming back up a
little bit,” Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  told
reporters in Ann Arbor, Michigan on Sept. 17. The economy “is
coming back slower than past recessions. We just need a little
bit more consumer confidence to know we’re growing the
economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  