-- Colicchio & Sons Lures Beyonce, Jay-Z With $125 Tasting Menu
-- Ryan Sutton
-- 2010-03-24T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-24/colicchio-sons-lures-beyonce-jay-z-with-125-tasting-menu.html

          
          
             Beyonce and her husband Jay-Z dined
at Manhattan’s Colicchio & Sons earlier this month. No
photographers were in sight, no pictures appeared on TMZ.com, no
one approached them during the course of my two hour, gut-
busting $125 tasting menu.  
 Two women with camera phones walked right past the pop
princess and the hip hop mogul, heading to the kitchen where
they likely hoped to meet Tom Colicchio, head judge of Bravo
TV’s “Top Chef” reality competition and founder of the Craft
group of restaurants.  
 Colicchio is king in this corner of the Meatpacking
district. Everyone else is a supplicant.  
 TV aside, Colicchio can still be found in his own kitchen. 
And his cooking explains why this replacement for the so-so
Craftsteak is one of the most exciting new places to eat in New
York.  
 Who cares about star sightings when crack surf and turfs
are to be reckoned with? The tasting menu knocks you out with a
scallop, its wallop tripled by the addition of foie gras. The
warm liver mirrors the mollusk’s Jell-O-like texture.  
 Octopus surrounds pork belly as if it were a ship in a
Jules Verne novel. The pig is silky. The tentacles collapse in
the mouth. White bean agnolotti add starch. A shallow pool of
pan drippings is enriched with lardo and chorizo fat. The tang
of sherry vinegar makes you forget about the impending heart
attack. Sop it all up with buttered Parker House rolls.  
 Foie Gras and Trotter  
 Call it a wacky American pasta paella. The components have
nothing to do with one another; it works because Colicchio knows
disparate ingredients with distinct flavors might confuse the
palate but won’t displease it.  
 This is why the original Craft is one of the city’s best
restaurants. The Flatiron joint serves the food family-style, so
tuna with foie gras foam might co-mingle on your plate with your
mother’s pork trotter. But while Craft lets diners go potluck
with a la carte everything, Colicchio & Sons does the thinking
for you -- no need to order sides. Rare venison, ordinary at
first bite, became something greater with woody black trumpet
mushrooms. Craftsteak didn’t quite work, so avoid the sirloin,
which was overcooked and tasted more like the accompanying bacon
than the beef.  
 Who knew cacao nibs went with risotto? Colicchio did, and
he added spicy tomato to cut the richness. Caramelized yogurt
tamed gamy lamb. Fennel and sauce bordelaise made the lobster
linger on the palate. It’s Italian, Middle Eastern, American and
French. It’s rock ‘n’ roll -- Jerry Garcia was piped through
the dining room.  
 Truffled Honey  
 Think of this as a cooler Gramercy Tavern, which Colicchio
himself helped make famous. That means two sections, casual and
formal. The packed bar highlights beer and more rustic dishes,
if putting truffled honey on ricotta is your idea of rustic.
Order braised rabbit; mop up the sauce with grits that actually
taste like grits. Other chefs mask the corn with cream.  
 Offal is hidden in the dining room. A waiter pours a
concentrated broth over delicate chicken breast. You bite into
something sweet: fattened duck liver, not on the menu
description. Cost: $34.  
 Early on, the bird was part of the dining room’s $78,
three-course prix-fixe only menu. Patrons complained and the Top
Chef relented, ending his three-course tyranny. Result: I now
order four courses, ending with cinnamon-raisin French toast.  
 Rating: ***  
 The Bloomberg Questions  
 Cost? Bar dishes are $8-$24; dining room, $12-$36.  
 Sound level? Moderate, about 73 decibels.  
 Date place? Yes.  
 Inside tip? Lavender-scented prosecco is an improvement on
the champagne cocktail.  
 Special feature? A parsnip panna cotta with lobster and
chestnut salt as an amuse; it belongs on the full menu.  
 Will I be back? Definitely.  
 Colicchio & Sons is at 85 10th Ave. at 15th Street.
Information: +1-212-400-6699;  http://www.colicchioandsons.com   

 

What the Stars Mean:

****         Incomparable food, service, ambience.
***          First-class of its kind.
**           Good, reliable.
*            Fair.
No stars     Poor.
 
 
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: A church on a weekday.
56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at the Food Emporium. 61 to 65:
Keyboards clacking at the office. 66 to 70: My alarm clock when
it goes off inches from my ear. 71 to 75: Corner deli at
lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with advertisements at full
volume. 81 to 85: Loud crowded subway with announcements.  
 (Ryan Sutton writes about restaurants for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        