-- Southern Europe Wants Increased Cooperation on Gas Projects
-- Elizabeth Konstantinova
-- 2009-04-25T13:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-04-25/southern-europe-wants-increased-cooperation-on-gas-projects.html

          
          
             Governments from around the  Black
Sea , Caspian and Mediterranean regions said better coordination
of regional gas projects linking Caspian suppliers with European
consumers would help secure steady supplies of the fuel.  
 “We support the realization of all infrastructure projects
that aim at diversifying supply of hydrocarbons to Europe, in
order to provide  energy security  for all countries involved,”
countries including Greece,  Turkey , Georgia, Azerbaijan and
Serbia said in a joint statement today at a gas summit in Sofia.  
 Europe, which gets a quarter of its gas from Russia, has
stepped up calls to diversify sources of supply since Russian
shipments through Ukraine were halted in January in a dispute
over prices and debt. Bulgaria, which imports all of its gas
from  Russia , was the worst hit by gas flow disruptions.  
 The summit’s participants also seek to establish an
“international dispute settlement mechanism” to deal with
damage claims caused by disruptions. Russia has rejected claims
to provide compensation for the January gas cuts.  
 Southern European countries also want to build more
terminals for liquefied natural gas, which will help deliver the
fuel in tankers from suppliers in north Africa including Egypt
and Algeria.  
 Bulgaria has signed up to two natural-gas pipeline projects
competing for  European Union  funding, including Russia’s South
Stream link and the Nabucco line. Both ventures have been
delayed by a lack of guaranteed financing as the recession
tightens credit markets.  
 Nabucco Pipeline  
 The planned 3,000-kilometer (1,800-mile) Nabucco pipeline,
led by  Austria ’s  OMV AG (OMV) , is set to carry gas from the Caspian
Sea region through Turkey to Austria, bypassing Russia, from
2013. OAO Gazprom’s 900-kilometer South Stream link will run to
Bulgaria under the Black Sea from 2015.  
 Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko said yesterday that
South Stream has advanced further in its preparation than
Nabucco in terms of intergovernmental and corporate agreements,
secured resources and established route. Russia will always be
able “to give a price a little lower than Nabucco,” he said.  
 South Stream and twin pipeline  Nord Stream , running under
the  Baltic Sea , are crucial to Russia’s plan to boost exports
to Europe while bypassing transit countries such as Ukraine.  
 In an effort to avoid future gas disruptions Bulgaria
signed two agreements during the summit. It agreed with
neighboring Greece to connect their natural-gas grids, which
will enable Bulgaria to pump fuel from an existing pipeline
between Turkey and Greece and carry natural gas from Azerbaijan.  
 Another agreement with  Egypt  envisages linking the Arab Gas
Pipeline to pipelines in Bulgaria via Turkey, which will enable
future Egyptian gas supplies to the EU via the Nabucco pipeline.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Kirkham at   ckirkham@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        