-- United Technologies sees 2007 profit up
-- By  Scott Malone
-- Wed Dec 13, 2006 8:42pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/14/businesspro-unitedtech-outlook-dc-idUSN1318891420061214

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Diversified manufacturer United 
Technologies Corp. ( UTX.N ) expects profit to grow by 10 percent 
to 14 percent next year, as strength in aerospace and 
commercial construction offsets the effects of a slowing U.S. 
housing market. 

  The company, which makes products ranging from Sikorsky 
helicopters to Otis elevators, expects to report 2007 profit of 
$4.05 to $4.20 per share. Stock analysts had expected 2007 
profit of $4.14 per share, according to Reuters Estimates.  "We have higher confidence now in the outlooks for 2007," 
George David, chairman and chief executive officer, told 
investors and analysts in New York on Wednesday. "We think 
we'll continue to have very good economies worldwide, emerging 
markets especially."  The company's shares are up 15 percent this year, roughly 
matching the rise in the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average 
 .DJI . United Technologies issued its earnings forecast after 
the close of New York Stock Exchange trading; the shares ended 
the regular session at $64.21.  The Hartford, Connecticut-based company expects to report 
revenue of $51 billion next year. Analysts had expected revenue 
of $50.12 billion, according to Reuters Estimates.  United Technologies is one of several top U.S. companies 
laying out 2007 financial forecasts this week.  General Electric Co. ( GE.N ), the world's second-largest 
company by market capitalization, on Tuesday set its targets 
for 2007, calling for 10 percent to 13 percent profit growth, a 
forecast that slightly lagged the Wall Street consensus.  But GE Chief Executive Jeff Immelt said in an interview 
with CNBC television on Wednesday that he does not expect the 
global economy to slow over the coming year, as consumers 
overseas, particularly in Europe, could help to offset the 
effects of any tightening of spending by U.S. consumers.  Honeywell International Inc. ( HON.N ), another blue-chip 
conglomerate, is due to spell out its 2007 outlook on Thursday.
  AEROSPACE, CONSTRUCTION A BOOST  United Technologies' results next year will likely be 
boosted by continued strength in the aerospace sector, driving 
sales of Pratt & Whitney jet engines and Hamilton Sundstrand 
airplane electronics, David said.  David also noted "commercial construction growth continues 
to be very strong, especially in North America," helping Otis.  David expects the high price of commodities, particularly 
metal raw materials, to continue to exert downward pressure on 
margins in 2007, though less so than they did this year.  Other weights on corporate performance would be operational 
trouble at Sikorsky as it changes the way it runs its factories 
and weak demand for Carrier air conditioners, led by the soft 
U.S. housing market.  "I do think we're getting toward the bottom of the housing 
cycle," David said "By the end of the next year, we'll see 
housing starts turn around."  The company reiterated 2006 earnings forecasts of $3.68 to 
$3.69 per share. Analysts expect $3.69 per share, on average.  Earlier in the day, United Technologies said its board had 
authorized a program to buy back up to 60 million shares, worth 
about $4 billion at current prices.