-- Pier 1 posts seventh consecutive loss
-- By  Chelsea Emery  and  Justin Grant
-- Thu Dec 14, 2006 1:31pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/14/businesspro-pier1-results-dc-idUSN1423804520061214

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Pier 1 Imports Inc. ( PIR.N ) posted its 
seventh consecutive quarterly loss on Thursday as the home 
furnishings retailer spent more on advertising and cut prices 
to try to attract more business. 

  In a bid to drive customers back to its stores, Pier 1 has 
revamped its merchandise, modernizing its furniture offerings 
and offering a wider array of home fashions like curtains and 
glassware.  But the measures have gained little traction and sales have 
continued to slide with shoppers still perceiving the retailer 
as a destination for Asian-themed home decor and wicker 
furniture.  Pier 1's net loss widened to $72.7 million, or 83 cents a 
share, in the fiscal third quarter ended November 25, compared 
with a loss of $7.2 million, or 8 cents a share, a year 
earlier.  "We recommend that investors sell shares of Pier 1, based 
on widening losses from operations and continued double-digit 
sales declines," Morgan Keegan analyst Laura Champine wrote in 
a research note. The investment firm has an "underperform" 
rating on the stock.  Pier 1 said excluding a charge of $24.8 million, or 28 
cents a share, for store-level asset impairments and other 
items, the net loss from continuing operations was $46 million, 
or 53 cents a share. That compares with last-year's 
third-quarter loss of $5.2 million, or 6 cents per share.  Analysts on average forecast a loss of 33 cents a share, 
according to Reuters Estimates.  Sales dropped 11.8 percent to $402.7 million and sales at 
stores open at least a year declined 12.9 percent. Analysts had 
expected revenue of $413.5 million.  "With weak sales trends continuing, no indication of CEO 
replacement, and no interest from a potential buyer, we remain 
negative," Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin said in a 
research note. Rifkin has an "underweight" rating on Pier 1's 
shares.
  MARGINS SLIP  Merchandise margins in the third quarter declined to 49.7 
percent from 52.5 percent a year earlier, due to increased 
promotional and markdown activity, the company said.  Selling, general and administrative costs rose to 45.6 
percent of sales compared with 34 percent last year, in part 
because of more catalog and television advertising.  "We probably went in a direction maybe that was a little 
more of a change than our customers wanted, but I think the 
brand is still very strong," outgoing Chief Executive Marvin 
Girouard said in a conference call.  "We all believed that we had a great success over so many 
years and that you could turn a company this size around in a 
matter of weeks or months ... I think now we're finding it 
takes a little more effort than that," said Girouard, who plans 
to retire as of February 28.  The Fort Worth, Texas-based company did not indicate 
potential replacements for Girouard, who has been with the 
company for 32 years, serving as chief executive for more than 
eight.  In May, Pier 1 said it would consider strategic options, 
including asset sales. The stock rallied in mid-November on a 
report that Danish retail magnate Jakup Jacobsen, who owns a 
minority stake in the retailer, was preparing to make a bid for 
full control.  Girouard would not comment on buyout speculation during the 
conference call.  "With an organic turnaround at the hands of the current 
management team increasingly unlikely and an in-process search 
for a new chief executive officer, investors have turned their 
focus to a potential take-out by Danish investor Jakup Jacobsen 
or a competing bidder," Sanford Bernstein & Co. analyst Colin 
McGranahan wrote in a note to clients.  Shares have lost about 25 percent of their value this year 
as the company has posted 10 consecutive months of declining 
same-store sales -- a measure of sales at stores open at least 
a year.  Pier 1's stock fell 11 cents to $6.47 a share in afternoon 
trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  (With additional reporting Lilla Zuill)  (Reuters Messaging:Justin.Grant.reuters.com.reuters.net;  646-223-6194, editing by Dave Zimmerman))