-- MAN CEO plays down chance of raised bid: report
-- 
-- Thu Dec 14, 2006 4:18am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/14/businesspro-man-scania-dc-idUSL1442863620061214

 

 STOCKHOLM  (Reuters) - MAN ( MANG.DE ) Chief Executive Hakan 
Samuelsson was quoted on Thursday as saying that his company 
was unlikely to further raise its offer for Scania ( SCVb.ST ) or 
extend the acceptance deadline again. 

  He also said he could consider including Volkswagen's 
( VOWG.DE ) truck making business in a new firm, if it wins its 
bid for its Swedish rival.  "Our offer is good. We will never pay such a high price 
that we do not create value for our shareholders. I do not 
think one should read too much into our new credit framework," 
he told Swedish financial news website E24.  MAN this week signed a credit for 11 billion euros to fund 
its offer for Scania.  MAN recently extended the deadline for accepting the bid to 
January 31 and has stuck to its own condition for fulfilling 
the offer of 90 percent acceptances. Samuelsson saw little 
chance for a further extension.  "There will have been enough time in January for everyone 
to have considered the offer and we will also have had a 
decision from the European Commission," he said.  The outgoing chief executive of Volkswagen, which is the 
largest shareholder in both MAN and Scania, has said he would 
like eventually to see a three-way deal, including VW's Brazil 
truck operations. Samuelsson said he could consider this.  "If MAN buys Scania, the new company could of course be 
interested in buying Volkswagen's operations in Latin America 
as a second step, but that is a separate issue to address," 
Samuelsson, a Swede, told daily newspaper Dagens Nyheter.  MAN's 10 billion euro bid for Scania has been rejected by 
the Swedish truck maker's board and entities controlled by the 
Wallenberg family sphere, the second-biggest Scania owner.  Volkswagen has agreed to tender its Scania shares to MAN, 
if MAN wins the support of just over 50 percent of voting 
capital, effectively meaning the Wallenbergs have to be on 
board.