-- Fidelity sued over retirement plan management fees
-- 
-- Thu Dec 14, 2006 12:07pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/14/businesspro-fidelity-lawsuit-dc-idUSN1429133820061214

 

 BOSTON  (Reuters) - Fidelity Investments is being sued by 
workers at Deere & Co. ( DE.N ) who claim the world's largest 
mutual fund company charged them "unreasonable" fees and 
expenses to manage their retirement savings. 

  Four Deere workers sued their employer plus Fidelity, which 
acts as a trustee and record keeper for the farm equipment 
maker's 401(k) plan.  The plaintiffs have asked a federal judge to rule that this 
suit, filed in U.S. District Court for the Western District of 
Wisconsin last week, can include thousands of other 
participants in the 401(k) plan as part of a class action.  The suit charges the defendants assessed plan participants 
expenses that "were, or are, unreasonable and/or not incurred 
solely for the benefit of Plan participants."  They argue that administrative fees and expenses can weigh 
on participants' returns and that "even seemingly small 
reductions in a participant's return in one year may 
substantially impair his or her accumulated savings at 
retirement."  The suit also charges that Deere and Fidelity engaged in 
so-called revenue sharing where the mutual fund firm 
administering the plans shares some the fees it charges with 
the customer. The Deere employees said they were not told about 
the revenue sharing.  Millions of Americans are relying more heavily on 401(k) 
plans to save for retirement as company pension plans are 
becoming increasingly scarce.  Fidelity is a powerhouse in the industry, administering 
401(k) plans for roughly 10.9 million people and managing 
roughly $662.3 billion in record-kept 401(k) plans.  Spokesman Vin Loporchio of Fidelity said, "We disagree with 
many of the factual and legal assertions in the complaint and 
we intend to defend against the suit vigorously."  Privately-held Fidelity as a rule does not comment on 
ongoing litigation and Loporchio said he could not elaborate on 
what steps the firm may take next.  Jerome Schlichter, whose law firm Schlichter, Bogard & 
Denton filed this suit and has filed others against firms that 
administer 401 (k) plans, was not immediately available to 
comment.  In the $10 trillion mutual fund industry, Fidelity is 
generally known for charging what industry analysts have called 
relatively low fees.