-- P&G stands by quarter view, sets new women's razor
-- By  Jessica Wohl
-- Thu Dec 14, 2006 10:30am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/14/businesspro-procterandgamble-gillette-dc-idUSWEN116220061214

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Procter & Gamble Co. ( PG.N ) stood by 
its sales and profit forecasts for the current quarter on 
Thursday and said it should return to double-digit earnings per 
share growth by the fiscal year beginning next July. 

  Over the past few years, P&G has worked on growing 
higher-margin businesses such as its Olay beauty line, which 
has brought out several products such as Regenerist. It has 
also worked on its relationships with retailers and taken a 
closer look at how to sell its products to lower income 
consumers, particularly in developing countries.  "These choices are paying off and our business is healthy," 
Chief Financial Officer Clayt Daley said at a meeting with 
analysts and investors at P&G's Cincinnati headquarters.  At the same time, P&G has grown through acquisitions, most 
notably the October 2005 purchase of Gillette.  "We are making excellent progress on the integration," 
Daley said.  He said he is confident in P&G's long-term sales growth 
target of 5 percent to 7 percent.  Shares of P&G rose slightly in early trading but then fell 
back, trading down 6 cents at $63.34 on the New York Stock 
Exchange.  "We think the very positive tone at the analyst meeting 
today regarding success in the Gillette integration and 
progress in developing topline synergies should help provide a 
boost to the stock," JP Morgan analyst John Faucher wrote in a 
note to clients Thursday morning.  During the meeting, P&G gave details of its first new 
Gillette razor since it introduced Fusion in January.  Chip Bergh, president of global grooming, said P&G would 
introduce a new women's razor, Venus Breeze. The razor has a 
flexible strip of shaving gel, eliminating the need to use a 
separate shaving cream, reminiscent of Schick's Intuition, made 
by rival Energizer Holdings Inc. ( ENR.N ).  P&G, best known for products such as Tide detergent and 
Pampers diapers, said it still expects to earn 81 cents to 83 
cents a share in the fiscal second quarter, which ends this 
month.  Analysts, on average, expect 84 cents per share, according 
to Reuters Estimates.  The company also still expects second-quarter sales growth 
of 5 percent to 8 percent, and growth of "organic" sales, which 
exclude mergers and the impact of foreign exchange, in line 
with its previous guidance for 4 percent to 7 percent.  "Given this high-profile event, we thought P&G could have 
raised their guidance, as they have done many times 
mid-quarter," Bear Stearns analyst Justin Hott said in a note 
to clients. He has a "peer perform" rating on the shares.  Over the past four quarters, P&G's sales have benefited 
from the addition of Gillette to the company's product lineup. 
In the first quarter, sales jumped 27 percent. But the current 
quarter marks the first time that Gillette was included in the 
previous year's results, so the growth will not be as strong in 
comparison.  Hott said that reaching 7 percent organic sales growth in 
the quarter "would still be a great result." He said he still 
expects P&G's earnings to top expectations.  During the meeting, P&G Chief Executive A.G. Lafley said 
the company is spending more time watching consumers in their 
homes and in stores to gain better insights. He also said P&G 
spends more than $8 billion a year on advertising -- twice as 
much as any other company -- to keep its products in the minds 
of consumers.  The consumer products maker plans to release second-quarter 
results on January 30.  P&G shares rose 2.3 percent from the beginning of the 
company's fiscal second quarter on October 1 through Wednesday, 
underperforming the Dow Jones Industrial average  .DJI , of 
which it is a component. The Dow rose nearly 5.5 percent over 
that period.