-- Big business sees steady growth
-- 
-- Thu Dec 14, 2006 3:25pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/14/businesspro-usa-economy-chamber-dc-idUSN1432345420061214

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - U.S. economic growth will remain 
steady in the next year as inflation moderates, the U.S. 
Chamber of Commerce forecast on Thursday, brushing aside 
concerns that the downturn in housing could spark a full-blown 
recession. 

  Predicting a steady improvement in the current pace of 
growth over the first half of next year, chief economist Martin 
Regalia said that those fearing the worst were more interested 
in grabbing news headlines than delivering sober analysis.  "Housing in and of itself is not a big enough component in 
the market of our economy to cause a recession," he told 
reporters at a news briefing to deliver the Chamber's outlook.  "When somebody comes out and says 'I'm predicting 
recession', I think in part they do that because it's going to 
get their name all over the papers, and this is right before 
the bonus season on Wall Street," he said.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce represents more than 3 million 
businesses of all sizes around the country and abroad.  This benign outlook will allow the Federal Reserve to hold 
interest rates steady at 5.25 percent for the next six months 
at least, while the dollar will continue to weaken, helping to 
make exports more competitive, Regalia said.  On overall growth, he saw the economy expanding in the 2.0 
to 2.25 percent range in the final three months of 2006, 
nudging up to around three percent by mid-2007. Thereafter, he 
said it would deliver a performance in line with long-run trend 
growth of around 3.25 percent.  "All in all, we've got an economy that is continuing to 
grow, that is continuing to create jobs, that is continuing to 
create income growth," he said.  One reason for this confidence was the resilience of the 
U.S. consumer, who has kept on spending despite an overall 
decline in U.S. house prices.  This might have made home-owners feel somewhat less well 
off, and therefore less inclined to splash out and spend.  But the impact has not damaged retail sales, in part 
because any negative wealth effect from weaker housing has been 
offset by a red-hot stock market, with the Dow Jones Industrial 
Average  .DJI  touching yet another record high on Wednesday.  "It just does not look like the American consumer is going 
to go away," Regalia said.  "The incomes are there to continue to support consumption 
growth between 2.5 and 3 percent which is sufficient to keep 
the economy growing at roughly 2-1/2 percent or so, and then it 
depends on what other factors materialize."