-- EMI to buy out Japan's Toshiba-EMI stake
-- By Aiko Wakao
-- Thu Dec 14, 2006 6:33am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/14/businesspro-emi-toshiba-dc-idUST3239720061214

 

 TOKYO  (Reuters) - British music company EMI Group Plc 
EMI.L will buy out shares in Toshiba-EMI Ltd., the Japanese 
joint venture it had with Toshiba Corp. ( 6502.T ), for a bigger 
share of the world's second-biggest music market. 

  By turning it into a wholly owned subsidiary, EMI Group 
aims to strengthen management and speed up decision making at 
the Japanese unit, which along with other local labels has 
suffered from shrinking demand for CDs and a rapid shift to 
digital song downloads.  Toshiba-EMI, whose artists include pop star Utada Hikaru 
and popular Japanese rock band Glay, said sales in the year 
ended in March totaled 46.6 billion yen ($396.5 million), and 
that revenue has been falling in recent years.  This year, Japan also saw the arrival of Napster Inc. 
NAPS.O as well as rapid growth of Apple Computer Inc.'s 
( AAPL.O ) iTunes online music store, fueling competition in the 
local market. Many young people also download songs directly 
onto mobile phones.  Digital music accounted for 9.4 percent of EMI Group's 
recorded music division revenue at the end of September, below 
the industry average of 11 percent.  The sale also marks an end to Toshiba's foray into the 
music content business that has lasted over half a century, as 
Japan's No. 2 electronics conglomerate shifts its focus to 
chips, nuclear energy and consumer electronics, Toshiba said on 
Thursday.  Toshiba's sale of its 45 percent stake in the Tokyo-based 
music firm should be finalized between April and September of 
2007, and generate an extraordinary profit of 13 billion yen 
for Toshiba in the year starting next April, Toshiba said.  Toshiba-EMI said it would keep its current company brand 
name for the time being.  Toshiba said EMI approached it with the buyout plan earlier 
this month, as the Japanese electronics giant is reshuffling 
its hundreds of subsidiaries to shore up its earnings.  Last month, Tokyo-based Toshiba sold off its stake in 
semiconductor wafer unit Toshiba Ceramics Co. 5213.T.  EMI shares were up 0.3 percent to 301 pence in London as of 
0940 GMT, while Toshiba closed down 0.1 percent at 771 yen in 
Tokyo, underperforming the benchmark Nikkei average  .N225 .