-- UPDATE 4-Citi to halve investment spending increase in '07
-- 
-- Thu Dec 14, 2006 6:58pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/14/citigroup-prince-frustrated-idUSN1427708120061214

 

  (Adds background, updates share price) 

  By  Dan Wilchins NEW YORK  Dec 14 (Reuters) - Citigroup ( C.N ) expects its
investment spending next year to rise by less than half the
2006 increase, its chief executive said on Thursday,
acknowledging that the group's consumer banking business had
yet to turn the corner.  Speaking at the bank's analyst day, Charles "Chuck" Prince
also said he shares investors' frustration with the bank's
lackluster share performance, but asked for patience.  "I feel very good about the changes we're making ... but
there's no shortcut to get from where we are to where we're
going," he said.  Citigroup, the biggest U.S. banking group by assets, said
in October it expected to invest about $1.17 billion more in
2006 than in 2005. The cut means that 2007 investment will now
be no more than about $585 million more than than in 2006.  Prince, under increasing pressure from investors, named a
new chief operating officer on Monday and more focus on costs.  During Thursday's presentation, he discussed ways Citigroup
aims to increase revenue, including expanding its financial
advisory business and increasing private banking efforts.  Increased revenue and lower investment spending growth
should help Citigroup's revenue grow faster than expenses next
year, and profits grow faster than revenue, Prince said.  That "positive operating leverage" would reverse this
year's trend of operating expense growth outpacing revenue
growth.  Citigroup's relatively weak earnings growth has weighed on
its shares, which are up 9.4 percent so far this year, lagging
an 12.2 percent gain in the KBW Bank index.  Investors gave a modest vote of confidence to Prince's
latest prescriptions for the bank's ills, boosting Citigroup
shares by 1.5 percent to their highest in over five years and
making them one of the session's top gainers in the sector.  "That (cut in 2007 investment spending growth) is giving
investors confidence that there may be operating leverage in
2007 after not seeing a lot of operating leverage in the last
couple of years," said Sam Rahman, portfolio manager at Baring
Asset Management Inc. in Boston, which owns Citigroup shares.  "I think that's what investors are keying off on."  OVERSEAS GROWTH  Others were skeptical.  "It's more of the same," said William Smith, chief
executive of SAM Advisors, LLC, which owns Citigroup stock.  "In our opinion, it's disturbing that (Prince) does not
understand what's going on. He is losing the battle here as far
as what shareholders want."  Smith said Citigroup shares had been bolstered last week by
talk that the bank could replace Chief Financial Officer Sallie
Krawcheck or even Prince, or could spin off some units.  Prince said revenue growth in the U.S. consumer bank was
taking longer than expected, but he was cautiously optimistic.  The company is taking steps like combining its brokerage
and bank franchises in an effort to offer more products.  Prince said the company was unlikely to make any large U.S.
bank acquisitions in 2007, reiterating that there were better
opportunities to buy businesses overseas.  Citigroup is ramping up its acquisitions after the Federal
Reserve lifted a year-long ban on the bank making major
purchases in April.  On Wednesday, Citibank agreed to acquire Central American
commercial and retail bank Grupo Cuscatlan for $1.51 billion
and last month led a team of investors that won control of
China's Guangdong Development Bank with a bid of 24.3 billion
yuan ($3.1 billion).  Citigroup is budgeting for moderate deterioration in credit
quality for 2007, Prince said.  Prince, who met with analysts alongside chief-
operating-officer-to-be Robert Druskin, Krawcheck and other
executives, also said Citigroup could boost credit loss
reserves in Japan due to legislative changes.  Citigroup shares rose 79 cents to close at $53.11 on the
New York Stock Exchange.
 (Additional reporting by Muralikumar Anantharaman and Mark
McSherry)







