-- Maersk, 14 Container Lines Seek $400 Asia-U.S. West Coast Rate Increase
-- B y   N e i l   D e n s l o w
-- 2010-11-20T08:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/maersk-14-container-lines-seek-400-asia-u-s-west-coast-rate-increase.html
A.P. Moeller Maersk A/S, the world’s
largest container line, and 14 other shipping companies agreed
to seek rate increases of $400 per 40-foot box on Asia-U.S. west
coast routes next year as the rebounding global economy revives
cargo demand.  The planned increase is part of voluntarily guidelines
covering talks for contracts generally starting around May 1,
the Transpacific Stabililzation Agreement said in a statement on
its website yesterday. The shipping group, which has limited
antitrust immunity, also recommended a peak-season surcharge of
$400 per box.  Asia-U.S. shipping volumes have surged in the past two
quarters and may rise from 6 percent to 9 percent next year, the
group said, as the economic pick-up stokes U.S. demand for
Chinese-made furniture, toys and clothing. The shipping lines
plan to seek higher rates after the global recession hammered
trade demand, causing industrywide losses.  “Two strong quarters in the transpacific -- a highly
competitive freight market with very thin margins -- still do
not fully offset two years of heavy losses,” Y.M. Kim, chairman
of the TSA and chief executive officer of Seoul-based Hanjin
Shipping Co., said in the statement. “We said last year that we
would not seek to recover all our losses in one year.”  Asia-U.S. shipping volumes may rise 12 percent this year,
the TSA said. Capacity has increased 19 percent since November,
2009, the group said, citing AXS Alphaliner data. In the first
three quarters of the year, 15 new and restored services began
sailing, including three new operators, it said.  Shipping lines also face rising costs for labor, container
handling, inland transport, and for buying and leasing cargo-
boxes amid a global shortage, the group said. The appreciation
of Asian currencies has also hit shipping lines that charge
rates in dollar, it said.  Other lines in the TSA are Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.’s APL
Ltd. unit, China Shipping Container Lines Co., CMA-CGM SA, China
Cosco Holdings Co., Evergreen Marine Corp., Hapag Lloyd AG,
Hyundai Merchant Marine Co., Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd.,
Mediterranean Shipping Co., Nippon Yusen K.K., Orient Overseas
(International) Ltd., Yang Ming Marine Transport Corp. and
Israel Corp.’s Zim Integrated Shipping Services Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Neil Denslow  in Hong Kong at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  