-- Afghans to Be `Masters in Their House' With NATO Security Handover by 2014
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-11-20T19:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/afghans-to-be-masters-of-their-own-house-in-2014-nato-says.html
NATO embraced a target date set by
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  to hand security over to his
forces by the end of 2014, creating a timetable amid tensions
with the war-torn nation’s leader over the 10-year-old conflict.  President  Barack Obama  and counterparts in the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization agreed that the alliance’s 130,000
troops will “stay as long as it takes to finish our job,”
while a province-by-province handover should be completed in
four years, NATO Secretary General  Anders Fogh Rasmussen  said.  Obama for the first time said the handover meant U.S.
combat operations in Afghanistan may wrap up in 2014. He also
addressed criticism by Karzai, who has urged U.S. forces to
scale back military operations and end night raids.  “We’re going to have to balance the issues of being
sensitive to our footprint with the need to get certain
objectives done,” Obama told reporters today at the NATO summit
in Lisbon. “I expect we’re going to make more progress next
year and it will not be without occasional controversies.”  U.S. and NATO forces led by General  David Petraeus 
intensified a surge against the Taliban insurgency this year on
the back of 30,000 fresh American troops, spurring an increase
in violence that’s prompted Karzai’s criticism. Rasmussen said
that NATO will continue the offensive -- and maintain a presence
in Afghanistan beyond the planned handover.  “If the Taliban or anyone else aims to wait us out, they
can forget it,” Rasmussen said. “We will stay as long as it
takes to finish our job.”  NATO Gains  NATO-led forces have claimed gains in areas in the south
such as Kandahar on the Pakistan border before starting to
transfer power to Afghan forces in the first half of 2011.
Meanwhile, the Afghan government is making overtures to Taliban
guerrilla leaders to give up their fight.  Karzai told the Washington Post Nov. 14 that the U.S. must
reduce its presence on Afghan roads and in homes, particularly
night raids conducted by special-operations forces. While
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said night raids by U.S.
forces in Afghanistan remain a “key component” of larger
military operations, Rasmussen said the “thrust” of Karzai’s
position was in accord with NATO’s transfer plans.  “Afghanistan’s difficulties and Afghanistan’s conditions -
- the reality on the ground in other words -- was substantially
understood and agreed upon” today, Karzai said. “I hope that
as we move forward, that these difficulties will go away.”  The target date for shifting security to Afghan commanders
was introduced last year by Karzai, who said he wanted his
government to control the country by the end of his second term.
Karzai’s reelection last year was marred by fraud.  “We have launched a process in which the Afghan people
will again become masters in their own house,” Rasmussen said.
“I’m confident that we can meet the 2014 deadline primarily
because we see a rapid growth in the capacity and the quality of
the Afghan security forces.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Lisbon at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling in Lisbon at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  