-- Asian Stocks Fluctuate; Oil Firms Decline, Carmakers in Japan Gain on Yen
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-20T00:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/asian-stocks-fluctuate-oil-firms-decline-carmakers-in-japan-gain-on-yen.html
Asian  stocks  fluctuated this week
with oil companies dropping on concern China’s measures to slow
inflation will damp demand, while Japanese carmakers rose as the
yen weakened, boosting the earnings prospects for exporters.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., the nation’s biggest
refiner, dropped 5.7 percent in Hong Kong.  China Vanke Co. , the
country’s biggest developer, fell 3.4 percent in Shanghai. Bank
of China Ltd., the nation’s third-biggest lender, dropped
percent 5.3 percent.  Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s biggest
automaker, rose 5.5 percent, while Sony Corp., the maker of
Bravia televisions, jumped 7.5 percent as data showed the U.S.
economic recovery is accelerating.  “Investors are weighing up their options in a rapidly
changing global macro-economic environment,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion at Pengana Capital
Ltd. in Melbourne. “We may well be headed for another period of
consolidation as investors move to lock-in gains against a
backdrop of rising uncertainty in the near term.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  declined 0.3 percent to 131.72
this week, following a 2 percent drop last week. Concern over
how China will tackle the fastest inflation in two years
triggered a global stock rout that wiped more than $1.7 trillion
off global  equities  since the start of last week.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 1.4 percent. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index sank 2.6 percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index 
tumbled 3.2 percent, the most among the region’s major benchmark
indices, on speculation measures to curb inflation including
price controls and higher interest rates may hurt earnings.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  advanced 3.1 percent as
the yen dropped to a six-week low against the U.S. dollar,
boosting the value of the nation’s overseas sales when converted
into the local currency.  Price Controls  China may impose temporary price controls to counter the
fastest inflation in two years, the government said on Nov. 17.
Price caps on “important daily necessities” and production
materials will be used if necessary, the State Council said on
its website.  The People’s Bank of China may raise borrowing costs as
efforts to cool inflation with subsidies, sales of food reserves
and price controls are likely to prove insufficient, said
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Concern that rising consumer prices, which surged the most
in two years in October, will undermine the economy spurred
Premier  Wen Jiabao  to hold a cabinet meeting on the issue this
week.  ‘Period of Consolidation’  The  MSCI Asia Pacific  Index gained on the last two days of
the week, countering a loss of 1.7 percent earlier, after
reports showed the economic recovery in the U.S. is accelerating
and on speculation a bailout for Ireland will prevent a spread
of the nation’s banking crisis.  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said the government
may accept aid from the EU and International Monetary Fund.
Reports in the U.S. this week showed fewer workers than forecast
filed for jobless benefits, and October sales at the nation’s
retailers increased by most in seven months.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has increased about 9.6 percent
in 2010, compared with gains of 7.3 percent by the S&P 500 and
6.5 percent by the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index . Stocks in the Asian
benchmark are valued at an average of about 14.6 times estimated
 earnings , compared with 14.1 times for the S&P 500 and 12.2
times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at 
 nicojohnson@bloomberg.net . 