-- Drayton McLane, Houston Astros Owner, Offers Team for Sale After 18 Years
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-11-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/mlb-s-houston-astros-for-sale-by-owner-drayton-mclane-after-18-years.html
Houston Astros’ owner  Drayton McLane 
is selling the Major League Baseball team after 18 years.  “We have no buyer in mind, but this is something we’re
going to explore,” McLane said yesterday during a news
conference at Minute Maid Park in Houston.  McLane, 74, watched the Astros earn the fourth-best record
in the National League and make the postseason playoffs six
times since he became owner in 1993. The Major League Baseball
team had made three playoff appearances in its first 31 seasons.  “We’re proud of the success we had on the field, but are
equally as proud of the success we had off of it,” he said with
his wife and two sons nearby. “One of our goals was to have a
positive impact in the community, and I think we did that. Now,
we look forward to passing the torch to start a new era of
Astros baseball.”  McLane hired  Stephen Greenberg  of the New York investment
bank Allen & Company LLC to negotiate with potential buyers.
Greenberg has represented the owners of the Milwaukee Brewers,
the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves in the sales of those
baseball teams and the Wilpon family in the acquisition of the
New York Mets.  McLane didn’t disclose an asking price for the Astros,
which finished last season with a 76-86 record. The team, which
cost him $117 million in 1993, is valued at $800 million, KRIV-
TV in Houston said, citing an MLB spokesman it didn’t name.  Market Price  “We will let the market price the team, although we will
certainly steer prospective buyers to a range that we feel is
reasonable,” Greenberg said in an e-mail.  McLane said no timetable has been set for a sale, adding it
could take “three months or three or four years.”  “Before we select a buyer, it will be an organization or
individual with very, very high standards, integrity, honesty,
and they want to do the very same things -- be a champion, and
to really get involved,” McLane said.  The buyers don’t have to be Texans, he said, “but they
have to be engaged, be involved. That’s the fun of being an
owner -- being engaged, being involved.”  McLane said his life has revolved around the Astros’ 2,916
regular-season games in the past 18 years.  “That’s a lot of emotion, getting upset with umpires or
somebody else,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  