-- Dollar Gains Versus Most Peers as Increase in Treasury Yields Fuels Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-20T05:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/dollar-gains-versus-most-peers-as-increase-in-treasury-yields-fuels-demand.html
The dollar rose against most of its
major peers as U.S. Treasury yields made the biggest jump in
almost a year, inciting demand for the U.S. currency.  The euro pared a five-day loss versus the greenback on bets
that Ireland will get a bailout from its financial crisis,
preventing contagion across the region’s debt markets. The yen
fell for a third straight week against its U.S. counterpart, the
longest losing streak this year. The U.S. economy grew at a 2.4
percent annual rate last quarter, data next week may show.  “Yields have been very, very helpful in lifting sentiment
toward the dollar,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market
analyst at Interactive Brokers Group LLC in Greenwich,
Connecticut. “Good economic data is going to boost the dollar,
boost yields.”  The greenback gained against 10 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts. IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index , used
to track the currency against those of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro and yen, rose for a second week in
the first back-to-back weekly increase since August. It advanced
0.5 percent to 78.504 in New York.  The dollar climbed 1.2 percent to 83.55 yen yesterday, from
82.53 on Nov. 12, and reached 83.79 yen on Nov. 18, the highest
level since Oct. 5. Its last three-week advance versus the
Japanese currency ended on Jan. 1.  The greenback rose 0.1 percent to $1.3673 per euro, from
$1.3691 on Nov. 12. It touched $1.3448 on Nov. 16, the strongest
level in seven weeks. The euro gained 1.1 percent to 114.23 yen,
from 113.02 last week.  U.S.  Treasuries  dropped, pushing yields up and making the
securities more attractive to investors.  10-Year Yields  Yields on the benchmark  10-year note  had the sharpest two-
week increase in 11 months, 34 basis points, as investors and
world leaders questioned the effectiveness of the Federal
Reserve’s plan to buy $600 billion in U.S. debt through June to
spur employment and avert deflation. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. Ten-year yields reached 2.96 percent on Nov.
16, the highest level in three months.  “The surprising backup in U.S. yields is putting yen under
pressure,”  Calvin Tse , a currency strategist in London at Morgan
Stanley, wrote in a research note on Nov. 18. “Dollar-yen has a
very robust correlation with U.S. rates.”  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said Nov. 18 he would
welcome the creation of “substantial contingency capital
funding” for Ireland’s banks, fueling speculation the nation
will accept a bailout. The nation had previously maintained it
didn’t need a rescue.  ‘Tens of Billions’  Officials of the European Union, International Monetary
Fund and European Central Bank started studying Irish banks’
books on Nov. 18. Ireland’s central-bank governor,  Patrick Honohan ,  said that day he expected the country to seek a
package worth “tens of billions” of euros to help rescue
financial firms battered by the country’s property slump.  “The Irish bailout looks imminent,” said  John Doyle , a
strategist in Washington at currency-trading firm Tempus
Consulting Inc. “If it’s too small, markets might react
negatively.”  Lenihan is due to publish details of a four-year, 15
billion-euro ($20 billion) plan to lower the budget deficit this
month and his 2011 budget on Dec. 7.  The currencies of commodity-exporting countries including
New Zealand, Mexico, Brazil and Australia rose against most of
their major counterparts as prospects for Europe’s sovereign-
debt turmoil to ease fueled investors’ appetite for risk.  Chinese Bank Reserves  Their gains were tempered after China ordered banks to set
aside larger reserves for the fifth time this year, aiming to
drain cash from the financial system to limit inflation. The
reserve  ratio  will increase 50 basis points starting Nov. 29,
the central bank said on its  website . The goal is to step up
liquidity management and “appropriately control” credit and
loans, it said.  The dollar gained as a report this week showed
Philadelphia-area manufacturing expanded. The Philadelphia Fed’s
general economic index climbed to a reading of 22.5, more than
four times the forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Other data showed U.S. consumer prices excluding food and
fuel, a gauge favored by central bankers, increased 0.6 percent
in October from a year earlier, the smallest gain in year-over-
year data going back to 1958.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the U.S. central
bank’s quantitative-easing plan, which it announced Nov. 3 and
began putting into effect with purchases last week. He said in a
speech in Frankfurt the effort will aid the economy.  ‘Significant Uncertainty’  The program prompted criticism in the U.S. and abroad.
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  suggested it’s
designed to erode the value of the U.S. dollar, and the four top
Republicans in Congress wrote Bernanke this week expressing
concern that it “introduces significant uncertainty regarding
the future strength of the dollar.”  Bernanke said yesterday in Frankfurt that the best way to
underpin the dollar and support the global recovery “is through
policies that lead to a resumption of robust growth in a context
of price stability in the United States.”  The Commerce Department will report next week that the U.S.
economy expanded at a 2.4 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. The data, due Nov. 23, is a revision of an estimate in
October that said gross domestic product rose 2 percent, versus
1.7 percent in the second quarter and 3.7 percent in the first.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  