-- Doubling Dialysis Sessions Made Hearts Healthier,  Patients Feel Better
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-11-20T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/doubling-dialysis-sessions-made-hearts-healthier-study-says.html
Dialysis patients who underwent
sessions up to six times a week, instead of the conventional
three, showed improvement in their heart condition and told
researchers they felt better, a study found.  More frequent  dialysis  resulted in less damage to patients’
left ventricular heart muscles, which tend to thicken and
enlarge when there’s too much fluid in the body, said  Glenn
Chertow , chief of nephrology at  Stanford University School of
Medicine  in Stanford, California. That should “translate into
better heart function,” he said.  About 400,000 Americans undergo dialysis, with the annual
cost of treating end-stage kidney disease sufferers reaching
$75,000 to $100,000 per patient, Chertow said. The study was
reported today at the  American Society of Nephrology  meeting in
Denver. More sessions may be costlier and inconvenient for
patients, and spur companies led by  DaVita Inc. , the biggest
U.S. dialysis provider, and Renal Advantage Inc., to expand.  “A healthy kidney doesn’t only operate three times a week
and it makes sense that the closer we approximate the natural
kidney function the better it will be for the patient,” said
Chertow, who was the study’s lead author, in a telephone
interview. “At the very least, this study suggests that our
very uniform approach to dialysis needs to be reconsidered and
more personalized treatment plans developed.”  While adding more sessions helped patients feel better, it
may prove to be a challenge for companies that provide dialysis
services, said  Alan Kliger , a clinical professor of medicine at
Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut, and senior author of
the study.  ‘Capacity an Issue’  “Capacity would definitely be an issue,” said  Mike Klein ,
chief executive officer of closely held Renal Advantage in
Brentwood, Tennessee. “It would require a change in the system
when it came to reimbursement as well.”  It’s difficult to estimate the cost to make the transition,
given uncertainties about what the new protocol would entail, he
said. Switching more patients to home dialysis may be one
alternative, since the costs are less, with fewer facilities and
personnel needed, Klein said.  While companies offer training and lease equipment to
patients who want to go this route, “it’s not for everybody,”
Klein said. “You can’t be afraid of needles, and you need a
caregiver at home to help you. We would still need to hire
trainers and have enough equipment.”  There is a quality-of-life advantage with home dialysis
since “everybody is more comfortable in their own home no
matter how nice a facility is,” Yale’s Kliger said.  Medicare Responsible  Medicare, the federal insurance plan for those 65 and older
and the disabled, is responsible for most of the national cost
of end-stage renal disease.  The majority of patients are already on  Medicare  when they
start dialysis. If not, patients are eligible for Medicare in
the fourth month after the treatment starts, said  Ellen Griffith , a spokeswoman for the Baltimore-based Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services.  Currently, Medicare covers three sessions a week, unless
medical necessity is proven for additional sessions. Although
the frequency will remain the same, the reimbursement system is
changing on Jan. 1, when Medicare switches to what it calls
“bundled” payments, involving a flat fee for the treatment
that may include associated services such as lab tests.  That payment will be about $240 per typical session, said
 LeAnne Zumwalt , a vice president at Denver-based DaVita who
handles public policy and regulatory issues. At least 85 percent
of dialysis patients are on Medicare and get on average 145
sessions annually, she said.  Overall Cost  “Medicare would have to consider whether giving a patient
more dialysis would get that overall cost of care down because
the patient is healthier and not requiring as much other medical
care,” Zumwalt said. “But it’s very good that we’re finally
doing some studies that look at alternatives.”  Griffith said it was too early for Medicare to comment on
whether an increase in treatment is merited.  “I think the most we could say is that we have not had a
chance to review the study, and, therefore, cannot speculate on
whether a policy change is warranted,” Griffith said.  For more than 40 years, patients suffering from advanced
stages of kidney disease have received dialysis three times a
week for 3 to 4 hours per session, Chertow said. In the study,
patients received more frequent dialysis, for 2.5 hours per
session. While the trial was too small to conclude more is
better, it suggests that “our one-size-fits-all approach”
needs to be reassessed, he said.  Changes in the Heart  Physical changes in the heart were evaluated with magnetic
resonance imaging, which measured the size of the heart. The
thickening of the heart muscle that many dialysis patients
exhibit can lead to death, Chertow said.  To determine the state of mind of patients, test subjects
were given a questionnaire after a year of treatment that asked
them to rate their quality of life and physical abilities.  The added dialysis also improved blood pressure and levels
of phosphate in the blood, the study found. Among adverse
outcomes was a rise in procedures to ensure vascular access.  The death rate among patients undergoing dialysis in
general is from 18 to 20 percent. It has prompted doctors to
call for studies, like Chertow’s, to evaluate whether the
treatment can be improved.  Chertow’s study, which began in 2006, included 245
patients, some receiving dialysis three times a week and some
receiving it six. The patients all received hemodialysis.  “Dialysis only sustains life, it generally doesn’t restore
health,” Chertow said. “It’s a hardship for patients to make
it to centers, particularly since so many are elderly.
Ultimately it would be better for the person to get a new
kidney, but there aren’t enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 