-- Duke of Westminster Tops Ranking of Real-Estate Investors Based in Britain
-- B y   T o m   B i l l
-- 2010-11-20T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/duke-of-westminster-tops-ranking-of-property-investors-in-u-k-.html
The Duke of Westminster, who
controls a London estate with the world’s most expensive office
space, remains the richest property investor based in Britain,
according to  Estates Gazette .  The Duke, whose name is  Gerald Grosvenor , had assets with
an estimated value of 6.8 billion pounds ($11 billion) at the
end of September, the magazine said in its annual ranking of the
250 wealthiest people in the industry. David and Simon Reuben
again ranked second with 5.43 billion pounds, while  Earl Cadogan 
and his family were third with 2.5 billion pounds.  The combined wealth of the people included in the survey
increased by 4.3 percent to 72 billion pounds in the year
through September, Estates Gazette said. U.K. commercial real
estate appreciated by 15 percent during that period, Investment
Property Databank Ltd. estimates, while the  MSCI World Index 
rose 4.6 percent.  “The recovery in commercial property values, which began
in the third quarter of 2009, is now feeding through,” Estates
Gazette said in an e-mailed statement. “The top performers this
year are inevitably those with low borrowings and solid
assets.”  There are two new entries in the top 10. Poju Zabludowicz,
who ranks eighth, was included after the Finnish passport holder
gained U.K. residency.  John Caudwell , who made his fortune from
mobile communications, invested in property during the last
quarter of 2008 and is joint ninth with Howard de Walden and his
family, Estates Gazette said.  The survey covered the U.K. and Ireland, with individuals
and families resident in those countries, as well as British
citizens living abroad being eligible for inclusion, Estates
Gazette said. All of them created a significant part of their
wealth from investing in real estate.  Following is a table of the richest real-estate investors
based in Britain. All figures are in millions of pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Bill  in London at   tbill2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 