-- Lehman Reaches Accord with Perpetual in `Saphir' Derivatives Court Fight
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-11-20T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/lehman-reaches-accord-with-perpetual-in-saphir-derivatives-court-battle.html
Bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  reached a settlement in a derivatives dispute with billions
of dollars at stake that divided courts in the U.S. and the U.K.  The legal fight centered on which entity should be paid
first from collateral under two transactions: Lehman or the
holder of notes issued by a special-purpose vehicle created by
Lehman known as Saphir.  Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc. reached a settlement
with the Australian noteholder, Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd.,
according to a court document dated Nov. 17. The filing, which
Lehman said was made in federal court in Manhattan, couldn’t be
confirmed in court records.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman
spokeswoman, declined to comment on the terms of the accord.  “After nearly 1 1/2 years of litigation in the bankruptcy
court and English courts as well as many months of settlement
negotiations during this period, LBSF has reached a settlement
in principle with Perpetual,” Lehman said in the filing.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James Peck  ruled in favor of Lehman
in January. Terms of the deal that would reverse Lehman’s right
to take priority because of its bankruptcy filing are
unenforceable, he said. Courts in the U.K. ruled against Lehman.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon , in a Sept. 21 decision
allowing an appeal, said Peck’s ruling “is of obvious and
critical importance” to Lehman’s bankruptcy because it could
allow Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc. to recover billions
of dollars from various other structured-finance deals that
would otherwise go to noteholders. The judge wrote that Lehman
has used Peck’s decision as “leverage” in settlement
negotiations concerning billions of dollars worth of similar
transactions.  Lehman is seeking to put the appeal on hold for 90 days to
complete the settlement. It said in the court filing that the
lawsuit in U.S. bankruptcy court and the appeal will be
dismissed.  A Perpetual representative in Australia couldn’t be reached
for comment after regular business hours.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 