-- England Rugby Squad Beats Samoa 26-13, Scotland Upsets South Africa 21-17
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-11-20T20:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/england-rugby-squad-beats-samoa-26-13-scotland-upsets-south-africa-21-17.html
England defeated Samoa 26-13 in
their rugby union international match at Twickenham,  while
Scotland upset South Africa 21-17. New Zealand overcame Ireland
38-18 in Dublin.  Second-half tries from Matt Banahan and  Tom Croft  and  Toby Flood ’s four penalty kicks gave the home side the advantage over
Samoa, which trailed just 6-3 at halftime.  England was coming off a win last week against Australia,
and made four changes for today’s match. The Samoans kept the
match close and Paul Williams scored a try in the opening
minutes of the second half. The home side was able to recover
with the score from Banahan, who also set up Croft’s try.  “They’re tough on the breakdown, and we had to work hard
to go forward,” England manager  Martin Johnson  said on the
British Broadcasting Corp. “We had to keep our composure and
grind back into it in the second half.”  At Murrayfield, Scotland got six penalties and a dropkick
from Dan Parks to beat South Africa. The rain seemed to
frustrate the visitors, who got four penalties from  Morne Steyn .  Scotland, which was blown out by New Zealand last week, was
able to hold on against the Springboks.  “Some people say they are Scottish conditions but I think
the guys handled it very well,” Scotland manager Andy Robinson
told the BBC. “It got tough at times. The whole side,
everybody, played their part.”  The All-Blacks took advantage of Irish mistakes to comeback
after trailing in the first half.  Anthony Boric ’s try in late in
the first half gave New Zealand a 19-13 lead that it wouldn’t
give up. The visitors also got two tries from Kieran Read and
one from Sam Whitelock.  Dan Carter  had our penalties and two
conversions.  Australia beat Italy 32-14 after tries from  Drew Mitchell 
and  Rocky Elsom  and six penalties and two conversions from
Berrick Barnes. Wales drew 16-16 with Fiji last night.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  