-- Merck's Vytorin Safely Cuts Heart Risk in Kidney Patients, Research Finds
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-11-20T17:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/merck-s-vytorin-safely-cuts-heart-risk-in-kidney-patients-research-finds.html
Merck & Co. ’s cholesterol drug
Vytorin safely lowered the risk of heart complications in kidney
disease patients in a study that may ease concerns swirling
since 2008 when it didn’t work better than a generic drug and
was linked to cancer.  The trial was the largest ever on Vytorin, which had $1.5
billion in sales in the first three quarters of 2010. Patients
on the drug were 16 percent less likely to suffer a heart attack
or stroke, need a procedure to clear arteries or die from heart
disease than those given a placebo over five years.  Merck , of Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, said it will seek
U.S. approval to use the drug in chronic kidney disease patients
based on the findings. The company-funded study is the first to
show that lowering cholesterol helps people with an illness that
affects  20 million  Americans. Smaller studies on sicker patients
didn’t find a benefit with  Pfizer Inc. ’s Lipitor and AstraZeneca
Plc’s Crestor, other cholesterol treatments.  “This is the first time we have found an effective
treatment,” said Martin Landray, a principal investigator for
the study from the Oxford University  Clinical Trial Service 
Unit, in a telephone interview. “In this group of people where
safety is an issue, there are no safety concerns with this drug.
It makes the decision of whether to take or prescribe the drug
much more straight forward.”  Vytorin, already approved to lower bad cholesterol in
conjunction with diet and exercise in patients with elevated
levels, is a combination of Merck’s Zocor and  Zetia , drugs which
lower cholesterol using different methods. The results of the
study, known as Sharp, were presented today at the  American
Society of Nephrology  meeting in Denver.  Compared to Placebo  Because the study compared Vytorin to a placebo, it can’t
be determined whether the combination pill is better than Zocor,
now sold in a cheaper, generic form, said  Steven Nissen , head of
cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio.  Good results for Vytorin may surprise analysts and
investors, said  Tim Anderson , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. in San Francisco.  “If the trial were to show a benefit, given the seemingly
non-stop steady stream of bad news with Vytorin, the investment
community would have reason to celebrate,” Anderson wrote in an
Oct. 15 note to clients before the data was released. “Positive
results would be an upside surprise, but in reality, they too
may only have a marginal impact on prescription trends.”  Falling Sales  Sales of Vytorin and Zetia fell to $4.3 billion last year
from a high of $5.2 billion in 2007 after one study, dubbed
Enhance, found Vytorin unclogged arteries leading to the brain
no better than Zocor alone. Zocor is a member of the family of
drugs known as statins, which work by blocking an enzyme the
body needs to produce cholesterol in the liver.  Another trial, known as SEAS, suggested the medicine may
increase the risk of cancer.  Drug safety experts have criticized Merck and Schering-
Plough Corp., which Merck acquired in 2009 for $49.6 billion,
for not conducting definitive studies of Zetia and Vytorin
earlier. Both medicines were approved based on their ability to
lower cholesterol, with Zetia winning U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval in 2002 and Vytorin following in 2004.  In the study, people given Vytorin didn’t develop muscle
weakness or  rhabdomyolysis , a deadly condition that can damage
muscles and kidneys with potent cholesterol-lowering drugs.
There was also no rise seen in cancers, deaths from cancer or
other serious side effects, including signs of liver damage or
pancreatitis.  2013 Result  A Merck study that may finally resolve the question of
Vytorin’s benefit, dubbed Improve-It, will be complete in 2013.  In the latest study, the reduction in bad cholesterol
perfectly lines up with the decline in heart complications one
would expect based on an analysis of all other studies done to
date, said Yale Mitchel, Merck’s vice president of clinical
research for  atherosclerosis , in a telephone interview.  Since about one-third of the drop in cholesterol levels
stemmed from  Zetia , which works by inhibiting absorption of the
chenical from food in the intestine, one could speculate that
the Improve-It results may show a benefit, he said.  In the Sharp trial, 15.2 percent of Vytorin patients had a
major vascular event such as a heart attack, stroke or artery-
clearing procedure, compared to 17.9 percent on a placebo.  When the researchers looked only at the events tied to
clogged arteries, which didn’t include deaths from something
other than coronary disease or strokes marked by bleeding in the
brain, 11.3 percent of Vytorin patients and 13.4 percent of
placebo patients suffered a first major event.  “It’s quite reassuring and gratifying to see the results
of the study,” Mitchel said. The data suggests Zetia “is
providing a benefit with cardiovascular events and we may see a
benefit in Improve-It. We still have to wait for the results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 