-- India’s Singh Vows to Punish Phone-Permit Wrongdoers
-- B y   P . S   P a t n a i k   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-11-20T09:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/india-to-prosecute-any-phone-license-corruption-singh-pledges.html
India’s prime minister rejected
accusations that he had delayed responding to calls for
prosecution of a minister that awarded phone licenses at below-
market prices, and pledged to punish wrongdoers in the case.  “If any wrong thing has been done by anybody, he or she
will be brought to book,”  Manmohan Singh  told a conference in
New Delhi. His office filed an affidavit with the Supreme Court
today rejecting allegations Singh had put off bringing charges
against former Telecommunications Minister Andimuthu Raja.  Opposition lawmakers have stalled proceedings in parliament
for seven days and demanded a deeper probe, resulting in the
benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive  Index  falling to a
two-month low yesterday. The clash in parliament is threatening
to slow decisions by the Congress Party-led coalition government
that is reviewing policies to open up the $1.3 trillion economy
to companies including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and Carrefour SA.  “Various aspects of this are being looked into by
respective investigating agencies,” Singh said. “I appeal to
all political parties to let the parliament do its work. We are
ready to discuss all issues in parliament.”  The Supreme Court yesterday gave Singh until today to
explain why he didn’t respond to calls for Raja’s prosecution.
The prime minister’s office said it was in the process of
seeking advice from the law ministry and awaiting a probe report
by the federal investigating agency.  Singh’s government has rejected the opposition’s demand for
a Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into the Comptroller and
Auditor General’s charges.  Clear Conscience  “The reason we are raising the demand for the
parliamentary probe is because of the suborning of official
institutions to narrow partisan interest,” said Brinda Karat, a
lawmaker of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) at the
Hindustan Times Leadership summit in New Delhi today.  The government sold wireless airwaves in 2008 for 123.9
billion rupees ($2.7 billion), though they were worth as much as
1.5 trillion rupees, the Comptroller and Auditor General of
India said in a report to parliament in New Delhi on Nov. 15.
The telecommunications ministry allowed some bidders to “jump
the queue” and awarded 85 of the licenses to ineligible
companies, according to the report.  Raja resigned one day before India’s chief auditor said the
2008 sale “lacked transparency and was undertaken in an
arbitrary, unfair and inequitable manner.”  His conscience is “clear,” Raja said after resigning on
Nov. 14, adding he will prove he didn’t break any rules.  Parliamentary Impasse  The former telecommunications minister is a member of the
Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the political party that rules the
southern state of Tamil Nadu, and is a partner in Singh’s
federal governing coalition with 18 seats in the lower house.  India’s plan to raise foreign-direct-investment ceiling in
insurance to 49 percent from 26 percent has been stuck in
parliament for more than three years because of a lack of
consensus among the political parties.  The government may decide in two months whether to allow
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart and Paris-based Carrefour
to open retail stores, Junior Commerce Minister Jyotiraditya
Scindia said yesterday.  Prime Minister Singh gave Human Resources Minister  Kapil Sibal  the additional charge of the communications and
information technology ministry this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 