-- Irish Talks Intensify as Banks Lose Deposits, Cowen Campaigns
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-11-20T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/irish-talks-intensify-as-banks-lose-deposits-cowen-campaigns.html
Irish officials and experts from the
European Union and International Monetary Fund are working
through the weekend in Dublin, racing to finish an aid agreement
amid pressure to act before markets tumble.  Allied Irish Banks Plc , Ireland’s second-biggest bank,
emphasized the fragility of the financial system yesterday,
reporting a 17 percent decline in deposits this year. IMF
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said Europe is moving
“too slowly” to resolve the sovereign debt crisis that began
in Greece.  The deposit outflow at Allied Irish “looks grim,” said
 Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin.
“It underscores the urgency in the situation and need to reach
a resolution. A big package is needed to reassure the markets.”  The aid talks began two days ago after a meeting of EU
finance ministers urged Ireland to agree to a package within
days. The plan, which will focus on a banking sector reeling
from the 2008 property crash, may total as much as 100 billion
euros ($136 billion), according to Barclays Capital.  Investors dumped Irish bonds this month on concern about
the nation’s ability to keep its financial system afloat,
forcing Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  to abandon a refusal to seek
assistance. Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said on Nov. 18 that
it was clear the country would need aid as the banks had become
“unmanageable.”  The premium that investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds over the benchmark German bonds rose 3 basis points
yesterday to 544 basis points. The spread, a measure of the risk
of investing in Irish debt, declined from a record 646 basis
points on Nov. 11 as investors anticipated a rescue.  Cowen Campaigns  As talks proceed, Cowen will campaign in Donegal in
northwest Ireland before a Nov. 25 election to fill a vacant
parliamentary seat. The vote threatens to erode Cowen’s
majority. He has the support of 82 lawmakers, including
independents, compared with 79 for the combined opposition.  Lenihan said this week he would welcome the creation of
“substantial contingency capital funding” for Irish banks as
Irish officials said they’d resist any demand by the EU to raise
revenue by increasing a 12.5 percent corporate tax rate.  A 2011 budget, due for release on Dec. 7, may placate
investors concerned over a budget deficit that will be about 12
percent of gross domestic product this year, or 32 percent when
the costs of the banking rescue are included.  Irish lenders have become more reliant on European Central
Bank funding after being frozen out of wholesale markets. The
amount of ECB loans to the country’s banks rose 7.3 percent to
130 billion euros in October from the previous month.  Relying on ECB  Allied Irish has tripled its reliance on funding from
central banks since the end of June as deposits fled. The bank’s
dependence on “monetary authorities” rose to 27 billion euros
from a “high single-digit” billion-euro amount on June 30,  Alan Kelly , general manager of group corporate services at Allied
Irish, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Irish banks’ failure to wean themselves off the ECB
lifeline prompted EU officials to step in, in an effort to halt
the crisis before it spreads across the euro region.  “The current view seems to be if Ireland accepts bailout
funds, at least for the banking sector, that might help fend off
any move by the bond vigilantes to move onto Portugal,” said
 James Shugg , a London-based economist at Westpac Banking Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dara Doyle  at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  