-- Irish Corporate Tax Rate Increase Isn't a Condition for Aid, Sarkozy Says
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-11-21T00:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/irish-corporate-tax-rate-increase-isn-t-a-condition-for-aid-sarkozy-says.html
Ireland won’t be required to raise
its corporate tax rate as part of a European Union bailout,
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said, addressing an issue that
looms as a stumbling block to an aid agreement.  “When you have to tackle a deficit, you have two levers,
spending and taxes,” Sarkozy said yesterday in Lisbon at a
summit of NATO leaders. “I can’t believe that our Irish
friends, in full sovereignty, won’t look at both since they have
more room for maneuver given that their tax rates are lower. But
that’s not a demand or a condition, just an opinion.”  Irish leaders have said they’ll fight to keep a 12.5
percent corporate tax, which helped make Ireland a destination
for investment by companies such as  Microsoft Corp.  and  Pfizer
Inc.  Austrian Finance Minister  Josef Proell  and EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  have indicated the rate
may be increased toward the level in continental nations as part
of the financial rescue.  Rehn said Nov. 8 that “Ireland will not continue as a low-
tax country.”  Irish officials and experts from the EU and International
Monetary Fund are working through the weekend in Dublin, racing
to finish an aid deal and avoid a setback in the markets.  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said yesterday that the
country’s corporate tax rate and four-year budget plan wouldn’t
be significantly changed, the New York Times reported. Cowen
spoke to reporters on a visit to Arranmore Island off Ireland’s
northern coast, according to the Times.  Cabinet Meeting  Cowen said he would return to Dublin for a cabinet meeting
today to work out final details of a four-year deficit reduction
plan, the newspaper said.  Allied Irish Banks Plc , Ireland’s second-biggest bank,
emphasized the fragility of the financial system Nov. 19,
reporting a 17 percent decline in deposits this year. IMF
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said Europe is moving
“too slowly” to resolve the sovereign debt crisis that began
in Greece.  The deposit outflow at Allied Irish “looks grim,” said
 Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin.
“It underscores the urgency in the situation and need to reach
a resolution. A big package is needed to reassure the markets.”  The aid talks began three days ago after a meeting of EU
finance ministers urged Ireland to agree to a package within
days. The plan, which will focus on a banking industry reeling
from the 2008 property crash, may total as much as 100 billion
euros ($136 billion), according to Barclays Capital.  Irish Bonds  Investors dumped Irish bonds this month on concern about
the nation’s ability to keep its financial system afloat. They
pared some of the loss when Cowen abandoned a refusal to seek
assistance. Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said on Nov. 18 that
it was clear the country would need aid as the banks had become
“unmanageable.”  The premium that investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds over the benchmark German bonds rose 3 basis points Nov.
19 to 544 basis points. The spread, a measure of the risk of
investing in Irish debt, declined from a record 646 basis points
on Nov. 11 as investors anticipated a rescue.  Amid the talks, Cowen campaigned in Donegal in northwest
Ireland before a Nov. 25 election to fill a vacant parliamentary
seat. The vote threatens to erode Cowen’s majority. He has the
support of 82 lawmakers, including independents, compared with
79 for the combined opposition.  Contingency Funding  Lenihan said last week he would welcome the creation of
“substantial contingency capital funding” for Irish banks as
Irish officials said they’d resist any demand by the EU to raise
revenue by increasing a corporate tax rate.  Ireland’s Trade Minister Batt O’Keeffe said last week the
corporate tax rate isn’t “up for negotiation.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  yesterday dodged the
question of whether the tax was in jeopardy if Ireland tapped
the bailout fund.  “Every country that’s in need of this mechanism can use
it,” she said at a briefing in Lisbon. “Everything beyond that
is the decision of each individual country.”  A 2011 budget, due for release on Dec. 7, may placate
investors concerned over a budget deficit that will be about 12
percent of gross domestic product this year, or 32 percent when
the costs of the banking rescue are included.  Irish lenders have become more reliant on European Central
Bank funding after being frozen out of wholesale markets. The
amount of ECB loans to the country’s banks rose 7.3 percent to
130 billion euros in October from the previous month.  Central Bank Funding  Allied Irish has tripled its reliance on funding from
central banks since the end of June as deposits fled. The bank’s
dependence on “monetary authorities” rose to 27 billion euros
from a “high single-digit” billion-euro amount on June 30,
 Alan Kelly , general manager of group corporate services at
Allied Irish, said in a telephone interview Nov. 19.  Irish banks’ failure to wean themselves off the ECB
lifeline prompted EU officials to step in, in an effort to halt
the crisis before it spreads across the euro region.  “The current view seems to be if Ireland accepts bailout
funds, at least for the banking sector, that might help fend off
any move by the bond vigilantes to move onto Portugal,” said
 James Shugg , a London-based economist at Westpac Banking Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dara Doyle  at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Lisbon at  gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  