-- N.Z. Rescuers Wait to Enter Mine; Air Tests Are Inconclusive After Blast
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-21T04:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/new-zealand-rescuers-wait-to-enter-mine-after-inconclusive-tests-for-gas.html
New Zealand  rescue workers  are into
a third day of waiting for tests to show the air is safe before
entering a coal mine shaft where 29 men are missing in the
country’s first mining disaster in more than 40 years.  An explosion ripped through the mine at around 4 p.m. local
time on Nov. 19, knocking out power to its ventilation system.
There has been no contact with the workers who comprise 16
employees of  Pike River Coal Co. , which runs the mine, and 13
contractors, with ages ranging from 17 to 62. Twenty-four are
New Zealanders, two are Australian, two are British and one is
South African, according to a New Zealand Police statement.  “Gas analysis is absolutely critical to deployment of
teams underground,” Trevor Watts, general manager of New
Zealand Mines Rescue, said today at a news conference in
Greymouth on the west coast of the nation’s South Island, 50
kilometers (30 miles) from the mine site. “We have got to be
certain we are not going to compromise the safety of the miners
we are trying to rescue and the teams we deploy.”  Watts has 30 rescue workers rostered and ready to enter the
shaft as soon as evidence from half-hourly gas tests shows it is
safe to operate. A member of the Mines Rescue unit, a worker at
Pike River, is among the trapped men and emergency crews are
ready and waiting to go and “rescue our brothers,” he said.  Fire Risk  Conditions in the mine aren’t fully understood, and
rescuers are trying to determine whether there is a fire, Watts
said. “There may be something else occurring but there is
limited information we’ve got to this point,” he said.  There is “some combustion of material” generating gases,
 Peter Whittall , chief executive officer of Pike River, told
reporters.  The company is readying a rig to drill a six-inch (15
centimeter) shaft as far as 150 meters from the surface into one
of the mine tunnels to gather air samples, a process that may
take as long as 16 hours, Whittall said. For a second day,
helicopters have been lowering sampling equipment into a
ventilation shaft as the company looks for an opportunity to
send in rescue teams, he said.  Pike River took family members of the trapped miners to the
site today, Whittall said.  “It was very emotional, but very worthwhile” for the
relatives, he said.  Families Distraught  The families are “distraught,” police superintendent Gary
Knowles told an earlier news conference. “They understand the
things we’re facing. They understand the danger of sending
people underground and causing a reaction we don’t want.”  Prime Minister  John Key  told reporters in Greymouth
yesterday that he had received international messages of
support, including an e-mail from Britain’s  Prince William .  “Our prayers are with the missing miners and their
families,” U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who visited
New Zealand earlier this month, said in a statement from
Washington late yesterday.  Australian Foreign Minister  Kevin Rudd  said the country was
providing technical officials to assist with the rescue effort.
Australia is “gravely concerned” about two of its nationals
who may be involved in the accident, Rudd said in Sydney.  New South Wales Premier  Kristina Keneally  said the state
was sending eight mine rescue officials to the site, while
Queensland Premier  Anna Bligh  said her state had sent four mine
safety officers, including two gas chemists, and equipment.  Last Disaster  New Zealand’s last mining disaster was in 1967, when 19
people died in a blast at the Strongman coal mine, also near
Greymouth.  Mining accidents are more common in countries such as
China, where a gas explosion rocked an underground mine in Henan
province on Oct. 16, killing 37 people. In Chile, 33 men were
rescued from a copper and gold mine last month following the
world’s longest mine rescue.  An accident at Massey Energy Co.’s Upper Big Branch
mine in West Virginia in April killed 29 people.  China, the world’s biggest coal producer and consumer, has
the worst mine safety record, with an average of seven deaths a
day in accidents last year. In Chile, Mining Minister  Laurence Golborne  said Oct. 25 that the government will probably announce
changes to health and safety rules by the end of November.  Pike River  is part-owned by India’s  Gujarat NRE Coke Ltd. 
and Saurashtra Fuels Pvt., which also take some of its low-ash,
low-phosphorus coking coal, used by steelmakers. The mine was
forecast to produce 320,000 to 360,000 metric tons of coal in
the year through June, the company said Oct. 19.  Pike River  shares  slumped 14 percent to 61 Australian cents
in Sydney Nov. 19 before trading was halted. The company fell
4.4 percent to 88 New Zealand cents by the Wellington close.  Mining employs about 6,000 people in New Zealand, according
to the government website  www.beehive.govt.nz . The industry
earned about NZ$1.1 billion ($857 million) in export receipts in
2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Greymouth at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  