-- Newark's Booker Postpones Deadline for Firing Police Officers to Nov. 30
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-11-20T18:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/newark-s-booker-postpones-deadline-for-firing-police-officers-to-nov-30.html
Newark  Mayor  Cory Booker  will give
police until Nov. 30 to vote on a plan that would avoid firing
officers as part of steps to balance the city’s budget,
according to his spokeswoman.  The spokeswoman, Esmeralda Cameron, announced the deadline
about an hour after the mayor said in a press conference that he
may put off firings “for a couple days” to work out a deal
with unions that challenged the terminations in court.  “As a result of negotiations after the conference, we have
decided to push back until Nov. 30,” Cameron said at the police
command communications center of  New Jersey ’s biggest city.  Booker had intended to begin dismissing 167 police officers
Nov. 12 as part of a plan to whittle down an $83 million deficit
in the budget year that ends Dec. 31. The action was delayed
until Nov. 22 by State Superior Court Judge Kenneth Levy, who
issued a 10-day stay to allow more time for talks.  The mayor is counting on the cuts to save $10 million and
reduce the gap in the city’s $605 million 2010 spending plan.  During the press conference, the mayor said the city put
forward a plan that included forgoing dismissals in exchange for
five furlough days and a reduction in overtime that went beyond
what the unions proposed. The unions also offered concessions
including lowering stress pay, clothing allowances and raises,
according to the city.  ‘Entirely Avoidable’  “Firing 167 officers is entirely avoidable,” Booker said
at the press conference at the police command communications
center. “We are open to holding off for a couple days if they
are willing to work with us.”  The unions will get the city’s proposal in writing on Nov.
22 and will distribute it to the entire police force, which will
have the final say on the measures through a vote on Nov. 30,
said Walter Melvin, a police-union representative, in an
interview.  The mayor won approval from the state Civil Service
Commission Sept. 23 to fire 860 city workers, including the
police officers, and to demote 123.  The fiscal year for the city of about 280,000 residents is
the same as the calendar year.  The case is the Fraternal Order of Police v. City of
Newark, C-000237-10, Superior Court of New Jersey (Essex
County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz@bloomberg.net ;
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  