-- Obama Says Ratification of Russia Arms Pact `Fundamental' to U.S. Security
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-11-20T18:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/obama-says-ratification-of-start-fundamental-to-u-s-security.html
President  Barack Obama  is pressing
the Senate to overcome Republican objections and ratify a new
nuclear arms treaty with Russia, calling the accord
“fundamental” to the nation’s security.  Obama, speaking in his weekly radio and Internet address,
said the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty that he and Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  signed in April would reduce nuclear
arsenals and improve relations between the two nations.  “A failure to ratify New START would be a dangerous gamble
with America’s national security, setting back our understanding
of Russia’s nuclear weapons, as well as our leadership in the
world,” Obama said.  Ratification of the treaty stalled in the Senate this week
when Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , the chamber’s second-ranking
Republican and one of his party’s leading voices on nuclear-
weapons policy, said that pressing business in the lame-duck
session wouldn’t allow full consideration before year’s end of
“the complex and unresolved issues related to START.”  At a North Atlantic Treaty Organization summit in Lisbon,
the appeal was echoed by U.S. allies, including eastern European
countries once dominated by the Soviet Union.  START has the backing of countries “who have the most
cause for concern with regard to Russian intentions,” Obama
told reporters at the NATO meeting. “Especially if you mistrust
Russian intentions, you should want to get this done right
away.”  In the radio address, Obama said waiting until next year to
ratify the treaty would prevent U.S. inspectors from verifying
Russian nuclear activities.  Verification Need  “Every day that goes by without ratification is a day that
we lose confidence in our understanding of Russia’s nuclear
weapons,” he said.  Obama also said a failure to ratify the treaty would damage
U.S. work with Russia on Iran and Afghanistan and would “risk
undoing decades of American leadership on nuclear security.”  The U.S. and other nations are pressing Iran’s regime to
curb its nuclear program, which they say is aimed at building a
bomb. Iran has denied that it is building a nuclear weapon.  “There is enough gridlock, enough bickering,” Obama said.
“If there is one issue that should unite us, as Republicans and
Democrats, it should be our national security.”  The treaty limits each side’s strategic warheads to no more
than 1,550, from 2,200 allowed previously, and sets a maximum of
800 land-, air- and sea-based launchers.  Each of the last three arms-reduction treaties was ratified
with more than 90 votes. The previous treaty expired in
December.  Tax-Cut Call  In the Republican address, Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky called on Democrats to extend all of the
2001 and 2003 tax cuts that are scheduled to expire Dec. 31.  Obama and congressional Democrats have backed letting the
cuts expire for annual incomes of more than $250,000 for married
couples and more than $200,000 for individuals. Democratic
leaders said Nov. 18 they would vote on extending some or all of
the cuts before the end of this year.  Republicans favor extending all of the cuts, and have said
they’d do everything they can to block Democrats’ efforts to let
the cuts for higher earners expire.  “Americans don’t think we should be raising taxes on
anybody, especially in the middle of a recession,” McConnell
said. “Time is running out. But it’s not too late for both
parties to work together and prevent this massive tax hike from
going into effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  