-- Obama Repeats Call for Surplus Nations to Allow Currency Gain, Spur Demand
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-11-20T18:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/obama-says-surplus-nations-must-allow-currency-gain-spur-demand.html
President  Barack Obama  said
countries running trade surpluses should boost domestic demand
and allow their currencies to strengthen, repeating criticism he
made of China a week ago at a meeting of global leaders.  “Countries with big surpluses have to figure out how they
can expand demand,” Obama said today at briefing after a North
Atlantic Treaty Organization summit in Lisbon. “Countries with
significant deficits, we have to save more and focus not only on
consumption, but also on production and exports.”  Obama went on to say that “the currency issue plays into
this and there’s going to be an ongoing debate on making sure
that surplus countries are not artificially devaluing their
currencies in a way that inhibits not only our growth but world
economic growth”.  At meeting in Seoul of the Group of 20 countries last week,
Obama said the yuan was undervalued and that China was spending
“enormous amounts of money intervening in the market to keep it
undervalued.”  Obama didn’t directly name China today. China has $2.65
trillion of foreign-currency reserves, more than double any
other country. It ran up a $201 billion  trade surplus  with the
U.S. in the first nine months of this year, more than the U.S.
deficit with the next seven-largest trading partners combined,
according to Commerce Department data.  Germany also runs a large trade surplus, though the U.S.
has never accused euro-area countries of manipulating their
currency. Instead, German officials have criticized plans by the
U.S. Federal Reserve to buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries through June, saying it could depress the dollar and
create asset bubbles.  Promoting Growth  Without mentioning that so-called quantitative easing,
Obama said stronger U.S. growth was also in Europe’s interest.  “The most important thing that I can do for Europe is what
I’m doing for the U.S., which is to promote growth and
employment,” Obama said.  Obama said debt problems in countries on the periphery of
the euro area had hurt the U.S. economy.  “U.S. growth was on a strong trajectory before the
problems of European debt came up,” he said.  Greece earlier this year turned to a European Union fund
for a bailout after interest rates on Greek debt soared. Ireland
is in talks that could lead to its tapping the EU emergency
fund, and the Portuguese government is under pressure from bond
markets to further rein in its budget deficit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Lisbon at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Patrick Donahue  at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  