-- Obama Is Preparing New Overtures to Counter Anti-Business Image
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2010-11-22T05:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/obama-prepares-new-overtures-to-business-to-keep-agenda-moving.html
President  Barack Obama  is preparing
new overtures to business that may start with a walk into the
headquarters of the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and a retreat with
corporate chief executive officers, according to people familiar
with his plans.  The Obama administration has been at odds with the Chamber,
which fought Obama’s health-care and financial regulatory
overhauls and committed $75 million to political ads in the
midterm congressional elections, mainly directed against
Democrats. The CEO summit would be a way to address complaints
from some executives the Democratic administration is anti-
business.  The Chamber had invited Obama to speak on Dec. 2 and the
administration hadn’t yet replied when the Chamber canceled the
event, said an administration official. The cancellation wasn’t
related to the president’s potential participation, said a
Chamber official who declined to be identified.  The nation’s biggest business lobbying group has since
invited the president to speak in January. The administration is
considering the new invitation, which would place Obama at the
Chamber shortly before he delivers his State of the Union
address, said an administration official.  Donohue’s Pledge  Chamber President  Thomas J. Donohue  pledged Nov. 17 to work
with Obama and lawmakers in both parties to pass pending trade
agreements, cut the long-term government debt and preserve the
independence of the U.S. Federal Reserve. He also broke with
Republicans such as Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky who say their top priority is defeating Obama in 2012.  Donohue said that U.S. companies are facing a “tsunami”
of regulations that are becoming a tax on citizens while
disagreeing with McConnell’s proposed solution of pushing for
Obama’s defeat.  “It’s not our intention to weaken the president in any
way,” Donohue told reporters after his Nov. 17 speech. “We are
ready to walk across this park and work with the administration
on any issue.”  The Chamber’s headquarters building faces Washington’s
Lafayette Park, across from the White House. The same day,
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk  crossed the park to speak with the
Chamber’s board in closed-door meetings.  Business Leaders  To address corporate criticism, Obama is also contemplating
bringing business leaders into his administration. Unlike his
two immediate predecessors, Obama hasn’t had a prominent
corporate leader in a high-level administration job.  One possibility is retired  Procter & Gamble Co.  Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Lafley , who could be appointed to a high-
level post as a Cabinet member or senior presidential adviser,
said a person familiar with the deliberations.  Lafley, 63, said in an e-mailed statement he wasn’t aware
of any discussions of an appointment.  “To the best of my knowledge, I am neither being
considered for nor have I been offered any job by the White
House,” Lafley said.  White House spokeswoman  Jen Psaki  said Obama plans to
“consult broadly with the business community, including Mr.
Lafley, on recommendations for the NEC position.”  Roger Altman , 64, founder of Evercore Partners Inc. and a
former deputy Treasury secretary, has emerged as a leading
candidate to replace  Lawrence Summers  as director of the
National Economic Council, according to two people familiar with
the matter. Altman met with the president on Nov. 16.  Altman has defended the Obama administration against
criticism that it is anti-business while also saying the
administration has made mistakes in its approach.  Another open position that may be filled with a business
executive is deputy Commerce secretary, said an administration
official.  Clash in Election  The discussion of a visit to the Chamber headquarters in
Washington follows an election-season clash in which Obama and
his allies responded to the business group’s advertising barrage
with charges that the Chamber accepted undisclosed funds from
foreign corporations. Donohue denied the accusation.  Commenting on the possibility of a presidential visit to
the Chamber, White House spokeswoman Psaki said Nov. 20 that
“economic recovery is the most important goal for the president
and working with all of the stakeholders, including the Chamber
of Commerce, on export promotion, free and fair trade to grow
the economy and create jobs is an important part of achieving
that goal.”  “The Chamber doesn’t have anything currently planned but
we’d always be happy to host the president to talk about jobs
and the economy,” said  Tom Collamore , senior vice president of
communications and strategy for the Chamber.  Outreach to CEOs  Psaki declined to comment on the possibility of a CEO
summit, saying Obama “will continue outreach to CEOs.”  Obama signaled a changed approach to U.S. business during a
Nov. 3 news conference, the day after his party sustained its
biggest losses in the House of Representatives since 1938.  Obama said he planned to change the administration’s
approach to make “absolutely clear” that the success of
private businesses is crucial to the economy.  With the economy the top concern of voters, the president
said he hoped reaching out to the business community would get
companies to invest some of the almost $1 trillion in cash that
Moody’s Investors Service estimates U.S.-based companies had
amassed on their books as of mid-year.  “Setting the right tone publicly is going to be important
and could end up making a difference at the margins in terms of
how businesses make investment decisions,” Obama said.  India Trip  On his visit to India this month, Obama included a speech
to the U.S.-India Business Council, an affiliate of the U.S.
Chamber of the Commerce. He also had a roundtable discussion
with corporate CEOs from the U.S. and India including  Jeffrey Immelt  of  General Electric Co.  and  Jim McNerney  of  Boeing Co.   During the election campaign, Obama repeatedly cast himself
and Democrats as defenders of middle-income Americans against
Wall Street banks, corporations, the oil industry, the insurance
industry and credit-card companies.  Some business leaders have taken exception to rhetoric such
as the remark by Secretary of Interior  Ken Salazar  in May about
efforts to clean up the oil spill from a  BP Plc  well that the
U.S. government would keep “our boot on their neck.”  Business Complaints  Business executives’ complaints about the administration’s
policies focus on Obama’s efforts to overhaul Wall Street
regulations, raise taxes on overseas corporate income, end Bush-
era tax cuts for high-income filers, impose new costs on
employers for health care, tighten environmental reviews and
rework pending free-trade agreements.  “The business community is about as alienated from a
government as I have ever seen it,”  Mort Zuckerman , the 73-
year-old chief executive officer of  Boston Properties Inc ., said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television on Sept. 10.  The Bloomberg Global Poll in September found more than
three-quarters of U.S.-based Bloomberg subscribers who are
investors, traders or analysts said Obama is too anti-business.
Sixty-two percent of U.S. investors have an unfavorable view of
Obama, according to the poll conducted Nov. 8.  “This poisonous dynamic” must be fixed, Altman wrote in
an opinion article published July 19 in the New York Times.  “Both sides should make adjustments, but the business
community -- of which I am a proud member -- especially needs to
make efforts to mend this relationship,” Altman wrote. “Yes,
the administration has made some mistakes. But, on balance, its
actions have supported business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  