-- Home BancShares Buys Failed Florida Lender as 3 More U.S. Banks Are Closed
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-20T00:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/home-bancshares-buys-failed-florida-lender-as-3-more-u-s-banks-are-closed.html
Home BancShares Inc. purchased a
collapsed Florida-based lender and financial institutions in
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania were also  shut by regulators  as U.S.
bank failures this year rose to 149.  Home BancShares ,  based in Conway, Arkansas, purchased
Carrabelle, Florida’s Gulf State Community Bank, according to a
 statement  issued on the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. website.
The three lenders closed today had combined assets of $969.4
million. The seizures cost the agency’s deposit-insurance fund
$199.5 million.  “We continue to execute on our very successful acquisition
strategy in Florida,” Home BancShares Chief Executive Officer
 Randy Sims  said in a statement. “Gulf State has been focused on
the customers and the communities it serves for four decades,
and this will continue.”  Bank failures in the U.S. have surpassed last year’s total
of 140. The FDIC’s tally of “problem” banks climbed to 829
lenders with $403 billion in assets at the end of the second
quarter, a 7 percent increase from the 775 on the list in the
first quarter.  Home BancShares’ unit Centennial Bank has purchased six
banks through the FDIC’s resolution process this year. The
failed Florida bank, the state’s 28th in 2010, will contribute
five branches and about $100 million of deposits to Centennial’s
growing operations, Home BancShares said.  The acquirers of the other two failed banks this week paid
the FDIC a premium to acquire deposits.  First Michigan Bank paid the FDIC a 0.5 percent premium for
the deposits of Burlington, Wisconsin’s First Banking Center,
the  FDIC said . First Michigan, based in Troy, picked up about
$750 million in assets, more than $660 million in deposits and
17 branches.  VIST Bank of Wyomissing, Pennsylvania, paid a premium of
0.5 percent  to acquire  about $92 million in deposits from
Allegiance Bank of North America, of Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania.
Allegiance’s collapse is Pennsylvania’s first in 2010. VIST will
add five branches with the purchase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 