-- Chelsea Loses Again, Allowing Manchester United to Close Gap in League
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-11-20T19:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/tottenham-comes-back-to-win-3-2-at-arsenal-to-break-away-losing-streak.html
Chelsea was upset 1-0 at Birmingham,
giving the Premier League leader its third loss in four matches.
Manchester United moved into second place with a 2-0 win at home
over nine-man Wigan.  Tottenham came back from 2-0 at halftime to win 3-2 at
Arsenal, the first time Spurs have won a league game at their
north London rivals since 1993. The Gunners drop to third, while
Tottenham is in sixth place.  Lee Bowyer  scored after 17 minutes and Birmingham held on
to defeat Chelsea, which stays on 28 points, and leads United on
goal difference. The Red Devils got goals from  Patrice Evra  and
Javier Hernandez to overcome Wigan, which had Antolin Alcaraz
and Hugo Rodallega sent off.  “We deserved to win and for that reason we are really
disappointed,” Chelsea manager  Carlo Ancelotti  said to the
British Broadcasting Corp. “We played good football, played
well with good spirit and good attitude and made a lot of
chances - but it is not enough as sometimes you need to be
lucky.”  Chelsea wasted chances and were frustrated by goalkeeper
 Ben Foster . Bowyer was able to run from midfield onto a headed
pass from Cameron Jerome to beat  Petr Cech . Birmingham defended
well to stop the Blues.  “Chelsea have players who can turn the game in an instant
and they nearly did a couple of times but we stood resolute with
a great rearguard action, a great performance by the goalkeeper
and a great goal,” Birmingham manager  Alex McLeish  said to the
BBC.  In Manchester, Evra’s goal was his first in more than three
years. He headed in in first-half stoppage time. Hernandez, a
second-half substitute, also used his head for his goal.  Wayne Rooney , who hadn’t played for five weeks, returned
for United at Old Trafford, starting on the bench before
entering the game in the 56 minute. He came close with a header.  At Arsenal’s Emirates Stadium in London, goals from  Gareth Bale ,  Younes Kaboul  and a penalty from  Rafael van der Vaart  gave
the visitors the win. Marouane Chamakh and  Samir Nasri  scored
for the home side.  Arsenal would have moved ahead of Chelsea into first place
of England’s Premier League by holding on to the lead. Bale’s
goal early in the second half brought Spurs back into the match,
and then a handball by Gunners’ captain Cesc Fabregas allowed
van der Vaart to tie the game. Kaboul scored in the last five
minutes of regular time to put Tottenham on course for the first
win at Arsenal in 17 years.  “We were either going to get beat 5-0, or have a go,”
Tottenham coach  Harry Redknapp  said. “That’s what we did,
because that’s my nature. I’ve said to my players that we can
beat anybody.”  Liverpool got goals from  Glen Johnson  and  Maxi Rodriguez  on
either side of a  Dirk Kuyt  penalty to defeat bottom-of-the-table
West Ham 3-0.  Bolton moved to fourth with a 5-1 win over visiting
Newcastle.  Johan Elmander  and  Kevin Davies  each scored twice for
Bolton, which was ahead 3-0 before  Andy Carroll  got one back for
Newcastle.  Blackpool defeated Wolves 2-1 at home, and Stoke won 3-0 at
West Brom.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  