-- Panamericano Not for Sale, Has Growth Plans, Investors Caixa, Santos Say
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2010-11-20T02:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/panamericano-stakes-aren-t-for-sale-caixa-silvio-santos-say.html
Grupo Silvio Santos and Caixa
Economica Federal won’t sell their stakes in  Banco Panamericano
SA , the shareholders said, after the lender was bailed out with
2.5 billion reais ($1.5 billion).  Panamericano  aims to become the country’s biggest lender
for individuals “in the segments it operates,” as it markets
products from Caixa, the national savings bank, according to a
statement e-mailed yesterday by the bank’s press office.
Panamericano, which began operating in 1990, is the nation’s
21st-largest by assets.  Luiz Sebastiao Sandoval , the Brazilian executive who
oversaw the holdings of Santos for about 40 years, resigned on
Nov. 18 and was replaced by  Guilherme Stoliar , 55, an executive
director at SBT, Brazil’s third-largest television channel.  Panamericano is at the center of the biggest banking probe
in Brazil since 2004, as the fastest economic growth in more
than two decades fuels record credit expansion. Outstanding
credit in Latin America’s largest economy tripled to 1.61
trillion reais in September from 384.5 billion reais in January
2003 when President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  first took office.  “To me, this is more like growing pains in the markets,”
said  Luz Padilla , a manager of the DoubleLine Emerging Markets
Fixed Income Fund. The fund, launched this year by  Jeffrey Gundlach ’s Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, has $6
billion in assets. “We will see tighter regulation as a result
of it.”  Fraud Investigation  Prosecutors opened a fraud investigation last week after
the central bank found accounting irregularities related to the
sale of loans by Sao Paulo-based Panamericano. Santos borrowed
from the nation’s deposit insurance fund to rescue the lender.
Regulators said the probe may cover as many as four years.  Panamericano shares  have declined  34 percent in the past
two weeks. The stock rose 0.4 percent to 5 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo yesterday. The bank’s bonds due in 2020
rose for a third day, pushing the yield down to 9.31 percent
from 9.56 percent. The yield rose as high as 10.07 percent on
Nov. 16.  Panamericano itself “isn’t big enough to affect the
interbank market” or hamper larger banks, said  Urban Larson ,
who helps manage about $2.2 billion in emerging-market assets at
F&C Management Ltd. in London.  Sandoval’s Departure  Sandoval, 65, managed holdings that include the bank, TV
channels, a cosmetics company, an electronics retailer, a real
estate firm and a credit-card payment processor. He quit after a
disagreement with the group’s founder,  Silvio Santos , the 79-
year-old host of a Sunday variety show, O Estado de S. Paulo
reported. An official at Grupo Silvio Santos declined to
comment.  Brazil’s central bank found 2.1 billion reais of losses
stemming from improper accounting of sales of credit portfolios
by Panamericano, central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said
in an interview this week.  The 1.6 billion reais of net assets booked by Panamericano
was actually negative 900 million reais, central bank
Supervision Director  Alvir Hoffmann  told reporters Nov. 10 in
Brasilia. The bank was recording as assets loans it had sold to
other institutions and there is evidence that loan portfolios
were sold more than once, Hoffmann said.  “I don’t know why it took so long to figure out,” F&C’s
Larson said in a phone interview. “It’s surprising.”  The investigation in Brazil, one of the four so-called
BRICs, an acronym for the largest developing nations, is the
biggest in the industry since Banco Santos SA collapsed after
filing for bankruptcy in 2004. Annual foreign direct investment
has more than doubled in the period to the $45 billion estimated
by the central bank this year from $18.1 billion six years ago.  Caixa President  Maria Fernanda Ramos Coelho  said in an
interview this week in Brasilia that her bank will provide “all
the necessary support” for Panamericano to keep operating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at   lzelenko@bloomberg.net . 