-- Ending Banks' `Disco Inferno' Will Involve Errors, Haldane Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-11-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/prince-s-disco-inferno-shows-state-role-needed-haldane-says.html
Bank of England official  Andrew Haldane  said that officials will need to show humility and may
make mistakes as they adopt new regulatory tools to prevent
future financial crises.  “The state of macro-prudential policy today has many
similarities with the state of monetary policy just after the
second world war,” Haldane said in a Nov. 20 speech in New York
co-written by David Aikman and Benjamin Nelson. “Data is
incomplete, theory patchy, policy experience negligible.
Monetary policy then was conducted by trial and error. The same
will be true of macro-prudential policy now.”  Haldane argued for the need for so-called macro-prudential
tools to prevent crises caused by the collective behavior of
banks. Former  Citigroup Inc.  Chief Executive Officer  Charles O. “Chuck” Prince , expressed the dynamic in 2007 by saying his
institution would keep lending so long as it had access to
liquidity, because “as long as the music is playing, you’ve got
to get up and dance.”  “ Chuck Prince ’s disco inferno causes murder on the dance
floor,” said Haldane, who is the Bank of England’s executive
director for financial stability. “The case for policy action
may have grown over recent decades as competition in banking,
and associated externalities, have intensified.”  Authorities need new tools to tackle this collective action
problem because existing mechanisms aren’t sufficient, Haldane
said.  The authors’ study of previous booms and busts shows
they’re not influenced by particular monetary policy regimes,
and they’re independent of the business cycle. This suggests
monetary policy, which does aim at the business cycle, may not
be suited to tame swings in credit that may destabilize the
financial system, Haldane said.  New Tools  Micro-prudential tools that target individual banks may
also be ineffective, the paper said. A policy that only
addresses one firm at a time will leave room for others to boost
risk taking.  Instead, officials should consider macro-prudential tools,
such as capital and liquidity requirements that operate across a
financial system, Haldane said. These measures may also include
pay rules that link individual salaries to the long-term
performance of firms.  These policies should also take care to address
expectations of market participants, the paper said.  Haldane said that officials will need to exercise
“simplicity and humility” in their approach to macro-
prudential oversight.  “Without absolute clarity about the objectives of any
macro-prudential policy framework and the policy rule necessary
to deliver these objectives, expectations will not adjust and
policy will be impotent,” the paper said. “Any lack of
transparency of failure of communication is likely to inhibit
seriously the effectiveness of macro-prudential policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  