-- Treasury 10-Year Notes Fall as Investors Back Federal Reserve's Inflation
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-20T05:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/treasury-10-year-notes-fall-as-investors-back-federal-reserve-s-inflation.html
Treasury 10-year note  yields  posted
the biggest two-week increase in almost a year as sentiment
increased that the Federal Reserve will be successful in
boosting economic growth and avoiding deflation.  The yield on the 10-year note increased 34 basis points for
the two weeks ended yesterday, the most since December 2009 as a
group including former Republican government officials and
economists urged the Fed to rethink quantitative easing. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended his monetary stimulus to
fellow central bankers yesterday, saying it will aid the world
economy. The Fed on Nov. 23 will release minutes of the Federal
Open Market Committee meeting held earlier this month.  “The market has been under pressure for the last couple of
weeks due to rhetoric within the Fed and around the world about
QE and because of the unwind of profitable trades set up for
QE,” said  Dan Mulholland , a Treasury trader in New York at
Royal Bank of Canada, one of 18 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed. “You’ve had positive economic data points.”  Ten-year note  yields  climbed eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 2.87 percent yesterday in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in November 2020 fell 23/32, or $7.19
per $1,000 face amount, to 97 27/32. The yield climbed to 2.96
percent on Nov. 16, the highest in three months.  QE2 Criticism  The Fed chief is confronting criticism from officials in
countries including China and Brazil who say the Nov. 3 decision
to buy $600 billion in Treasury securities has weakened the
dollar and contributed to flows of capital to emerging markets.
The policy has also come under fire in the U.S., where critics,
including Republican members of Congress, have said it risks
fueling inflation and asset bubbles.  The U.S.  unemployment rate  of 9.6 percent is “high and,
given the slow pace of economic growth, likely to remain so for
some time,” Bernanke said in Frankfurt yesterday where he
defended quantitative easing.  After the speech, Bernanke spoke during a panel discussion
and responded to audience questions, saying that the use of
securities purchases for monetary policy affects asset prices
“quite significantly.” He said he’s “quite skeptical” of the
criticism that central bankers are “pushing on a string.”  Consumer prices excluding food and fuel, the gauge followed
by central bankers, increased 0.6 percent from October 2009, the
smallest gain in year-over-year data going back to 1958, the
Labor Department said Nov. 17 in Washington.  Improving Data  Treasuries swung between gains and losses this week amid
stronger-than-expected economic data.  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded in
November at the fastest pace this year as orders, sales and
employment surged, indicating U.S. and overseas demand will keep
fueling factory growth, a report showed on Nov. 18. Philadelphia
Fed’s general economic  index  jumped to 22.5 from a month
earlier, exceeding the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The index of U.S. leading indicators rose in October for a
fourth consecutive month on signs the Fed was preparing to take
additional action to spur the world’s biggest economy.  The New York-based Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook
for the next three to six months climbed 0.5 percent for a
second month, matching the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and capping the biggest back-to-back
gains since February-March. Six of the 10 components increased.  Fed Buys  In its first round of asset purchases, ended in March, the
Fed  bought  $1.75 trillion in securities, including $300 billion
in Treasuries, in an effort to spur economic growth strong
enough to lower unemployment from near a 26-year high. The Fed
has acquired $38.12 billion in Treasuries since it initiated the
second round of purchases on Nov. 12.  Yesterday the Fed purchased $24 million of the $16 billion
auction of 30-year bonds sold on Nov. 10. The bonds drew an
interest rate of 4.32 percent, the highest at any auction of the
securities since May. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 2.31, the lowest since November 2009.  The Fed will purchase securities maturing from February
2018 to November 2020 on Nov. 22 and debt maturing from July
2012 to February 2040 the next day.  The Treasury will sell $35 billion of two-year notes, $35
billion in five-year debt and $29 billion of seven-year
securities during three days starting Nov. 22, matching results
of a Bloomberg News survey of primary dealers.  The $99 billion total is unchanged from the amount of the
October sales of the securities. President  Barack Obama  has
increased U.S. marketable  debt  to a record $8.54 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  