-- Bumper Crop of New U.S. Governors May Mean More One-Termers
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-11-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/record-crop-of-new-u-s-governors-may-mean-more-one-termers-lepage-says.html
The  record crop  of 29 new U.S.
governors may lead to more one-term executives as states slash
spending and cut programs to balance recession-ravaged budgets,
said  Maine  Governor-elect  Paul LePage .  “We’re going through some tough times,” LePage, a
Republican who will take over from Democrat  John Baldacci , said
in an interview at a seminar for new office-holders held this
weekend by the National Governors Association in Colorado
Springs, Colorado. “The good governors are going to make some
tough decisions and move on; if they are re-elected, fine. If
not, they did what they were asked to do and they should be
proud of themselves.”  Republicans, capitalizing on economic discontent with the
nation’s  jobless rate  holding above 9 percent, took over a
majority of governorships in the Nov. 2 elections, when 37 of
the seats were up for grabs. Republicans will hold 29 of the
offices, regaining the dominance they lost four years ago. The
last time an incoming class rivaled this year’s was in 1920,
when there were 27 new entrants, said Washington Governor
 Christine Gregoire .  Transitioning from the campaign to governing took center
stage at the governors’  summit , at the Broadmoor resort in the
shadow of the Rocky Mountains. Fourteen current office-holders
and 16 newcomers discussed issues from budgeting to assembling
cabinets.  The new leaders will take over as states across the U.S.
are forced to consider cuts to programs such as education,
pensions and health care to balance budgets after an increase in
joblessness and declines in tax collections.  “They don’t have the luxury of borrowing or making new
money,” Gregoire, a second-term Democrat who chairs the
governors group, said at a press conference yesterday. “We have
to balance budgets and make tough decisions.  $140 Billion  States’ budget deficits will likely total $140 billion in
fiscal 2012, the Washington-based Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities said in a  report  last month. An 18-month recession
that was declared over in June 2009 shrunk state tax collections
by 8.4 percent in fiscal 2009 and 3.1 percent in fiscal 2010, it
said.  Scott Walker , the Republican Governor-elect of  Wisconsin ,
said he and peers across the country must look at the long-term
financial picture as they transition from campaigning to being
their state’s chief executive. He said he’s aware that may mean
making choices that are unpopular with voters.  “When times are tough I want the ball, I want to be the
one in charge and I want to help get the state back on track,”
Walker told reporters at the seminar. “They didn’t elect us to
be popular, they elected us to get things done.”  Ray Scheppach , executive director of the governors’ group,
said the unprecedented turnover isn’t ideal, given that most
organizations view a 10 percent flip in personnel as a potential
hindrance.  “We came here to do the best job we could, irrespective of
polls and irrespective of elections,” Gregoire said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 