-- Russia, NATO Agree to Cooperate on Missile Defense in Boost to Relations
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-11-20T16:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/russia-nato-agree-to-cooperate-on-missile-defense-in-boost-to-relations.html
Russia agreed to cooperate with NATO
on a missile-defense system, expanding cooperation between the
former Cold War adversaries as President  Barack Obama  pushes the
U.S. Senate to ratify a nuclear-arms reduction treaty.  “Today we have not only buried ghosts of the past that have
haunted us for too long,” said NATO Secretary General  Anders Fogh Rasmussen  after alliance leaders met today with Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  at the end of a two-day summit in
Lisbon. “We have made a fresh start.”  NATO is trying to turn the anti-missile system -- initially
opposed by the Kremlin -- into a fulcrum for cooperation with
Russia as part of the U.S.-driven “reset” of East-West
relations. Russia and the 28-nation North Atlantic Treaty
Organization will create a “working group” on missile defense,
according to an official Russian fact sheet.  An anti-missile shield to protect Europe and North America
“offers a role for all of our allies to respond to the threats
of our times,”  Obama  said. “We look forward to working with
Russia to build our cooperation with them in this area.”  Both NATO and Russia face “common challenges and we have
important common interests,” a joint NATO-Russia statement
said.  Allied officials said the 10-year, 200 million-euro ($273
million) cost of the shield, as modified by Obama from a
proposal by former President  George W. Bush , makes it a bargain
at a time of shrinking defense budgets. It would build on a
smaller-scale system being developed to protect troops in the
field.  Bush Plan  Russia had objected to the Bush administration plan, which
foresaw permanent anti-missile bases in Poland and the Czech
Republic, two nations dominated by the Soviet Union during the
Cold War. Russia viewed the Bush plan as a threat to its
strategic arsenal.  Obama’s plan  does away with fixed bases, relying on mobile
and sea-based radars and interceptors that the U.S. says would
be easier to tie in with Russian systems.  Obama said NATO leaders back him on the Strategic Arms
Reduction Treaty with Russia, saying it will enhance European
security as well.  The treaty is awaiting ratification by the U.S. Senate. The
president’s push for a vote suffered a setback this week when
Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , the chamber’s second-ranking Republican
and one of his party’s leading voices on nuclear-weapons policy,
said the issues are too complex to resolve by year’s end.  Ratification Concern  “Early ratification of the START treaty would be to the
benefit to the security of the Euro-Atlantic area,” Rasmussen
said. “It is a matter of concern that a delayed ratification of
the START treaty would be damaging to the overall security
environment in Europe. So we strongly urge both parties to
ratify the START treaty as early as possible.”  NATO members Turkey and France also raised questions about
the missile shield. The U.S. aimed to sway Turkey by not naming
in a summit statement its neighbor Iran as the potential missile
threat, and by offering the prospect of a degree of Turkish
military control over the system. French officials said they
agreed to sign on after winning language that NATO considers the
shield as a complement to nuclear deterrence, and not a
replacement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Lisbon at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Lisbon at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: James
Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  