-- Sarkozy Dismisses Alleged Links to Pakistan Submarine Deal as a `Polemic'
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-11-20T14:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/sarkozy-dismisses-links-to-pakistan-submarine-deal-as-polemic-.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
dismissed suggestions that he was linked to possible bribes paid
in the 1990s to sell submarines to Pakistan.  “It’s just a polemic that people are trying to stick to
me,” Sarkozy said at a press conference today during a North
Atlantic Treaty Organization summit in Lisbon. “It dishonors
the families of the victims. Let the justice system do its
work.”  French prosecutors began investigating a 1994 contract to
sell Pakistan three vessels after 11 military engineers working
on the boats were killed in a May 2002 bombing in Karachi.  Le Figaro newspaper reported in June 2009 that
investigators concluded in late 2002 that the attack was linked
to then-President  Jacques Chirac ’s decision to cancel secret
payments to middlemen who brokered the contract. Le Figaro said
part of the bribes were presumed to have made their way to the
failed 1995 presidential election campaign of then-Prime
Minister  Edouard Balladur  against Chirac.  Sarkozy was Balladur’s spokesman during the campaign.
Balladur was questioned by lawmakers earlier this year and
denied receiving any money from the contract.  Dominique de Villepin , Chirac’s chief of staff and a former
prime minister, said in an interview with TF1 Television late
yesterday that “very strong suspicious of hidden commissions
existed” in the submarine sale. He said Chirac moved to end
“all payments on contracts that could have involved hidden
commissions,” he said.  De Villepin lost to Sarkozy for the nomination to be their
party’s candidate in 2007 presidential elections. He has since
emerged as one of Sarkozy’s most outspoken critics and has
started a breakaway political group.  Claude Gueant , Sarkozy’s chief of staff, said in a
statement last night that Sarkozy had no link to any presumed
bribes paid in relation to the submarine sale and that he’s a
victim of “malicious rumors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  