-- Saudi Arabian Shares Decline to Two-Week Low on China, Ireland, Oil Prices
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2010-11-20T13:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-20/saudi-arabain-shares-decline-to-two-week-low-on-china-ireland-oil-prices.html
Saudi Arabian shares dropped to a
two-week low on investor speculation that Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis and China’s measures to tame inflation will
undermine economic growth.  The  Tadawul All Share Index  fell 0.9 percent to 6383.69,
the lowest since Nov. 3, at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh.  Saudi
Basic Industries Corp. , the world’s largest petrochemicals
maker, and  Al Rajhi Bank , the kingdom’s biggest publicly traded
lender, led the decline.  “Global concerns over the possibility of a tighter
monetary policy in China and ongoing Euro-zone government debt
problems have hit retail investor confidence,” said  Amro Halwani , a trader at Shuaa Capital PSC in Saudi Arabia.
“Locally, petrochemicals have suffered downward pressure, as
post-Eid investors react to recent declines in oil prices.”  The Eid Al Adha holidays in Saudi Arabia covered the past
week’s business days.  Oil fell this week after China ordered banks to raise
reserves in a move that may slow growth in the world’s largest
energy-consuming country. Futures dropped 0.4 percent, settling
at $81.51 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange
yesterday. Prices have dropped 4 percent since Nov. 12. Saudi
Arabia holds one-fifth of the world’s proven oil reserves.  Ireland is edging toward accepting a rescue package that
may threaten its low-tax policies and put Irish voters on the
hook to repay loans the central bank says may be worth tens of
billions of euros.  Sabic  declined 2.7 percent, the most since Oct. 16, to
100.25 riyals.  Al Rajhi  fell 1.9 percent, the most since Sept.
15, to 78 riyals, while  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co.  dropped 3.7
percent, the most in almost six months, to 151 riyals.  “Local risk appetite is likely to remain under pressure”
while “uncertainty on global economic issues persists,”
Halwani said.  Saudi Arabia’s index is the only Gulf Arab benchmark
tracked by Bloomberg that trades on a Saturday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mourad Haroutunian  in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 