-- Baoshan's 3rd-Quarter Profit Gains on Steel Demand
-- Janet Ong
-- 2006-10-27T13:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-10-27/baoshan-s-3rd-quarter-profit-gains-on-steel-demand-update4-.html

          
          
             Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., China's
biggest steelmaker, said its third-quarter net income rose 42
percent and reversed three straight quarters of declines as
demand recovered.  
 Net income rose to 4.7 billion  yuan  ($595.7 million) in the
quarter ended Sept. 30, or 0.27 yuan a share, from last year's
3.31 billion yuan, or 0.19 yuan a share, the company said in a
statement today. Sales rose 22 percent to 42.1 billion yuan.  
 Steel prices have stopped falling since August because of a
recovery in demand and as a government push to shut obsolete
plants slowed output growth. China is encouraging steelmakers to
form bigger companies overseas amid an industry drive to combine.
 India 's Tata Steel Ltd. agreed to buy U.K.'s Corus Plc last week,
and Mittal Steel Co. acquired Arcelor SA for $38 billion to form
the world's biggest steelmaker earlier this year.  
 ``Baoshan will be the major consolidator in  China 's steel
industry,'' said Wu Pengfei, a Beijing-based steel analyst with
Guotai Junan Securities Co. ``It will benefit from industry
mergers with the government shutting small mills.''  
 Baoshan Steel shares rose for the fifth day today, gaining
almost 3 percent to 4.51 yuan in Shanghai before earnings were
announced. The stock has risen 9.5 percent this year, lagging
behind a 55 percent gain in the Shanghai Composite Index.  
 Auto-Steel  
 Baoshan's nine-month profit fell 13 percent to 9.1 billion
yuan, according to the company's statement. Sales climbed 35.4
percent to September from January to 113.2 billion yuan.  
 The company sold 1.9 million tons of steel sheets in the
first nine months to make autos, a rise of 22 percent from a
year ago, the statement said. In the fourth quarter, production
will fall by 200,000 tons because the company's No. 2 furnace is
closed for maintenance, Baoshan said.  
 Baosteel Group Corp., the parent, plans to more than double
output to 50 million tons by 2012 as Chairwoman Xie Qihua wants
the company to rank in the world's top three producers. Baoshan
Steel contains most of the parent's steel assets.  
 Expansion will boost the company's bargaining power with
suppliers of raw materials, and help it spend more on higher-
grade production. Baosteel allied with Chinese steelmakers
including Magang (Group) Holding Co. and Xinjiang Ba Yi Iron &
Steel Group, and intends to merge with them ``when conditions
mature,'' the company's president Xu Lejiang said in April.  
 Raising Prices  
 Baoshan Steel, which supplies half the alloy used by the
country in cars and appliances, raised prices from the third-
quarter by as much as 13 percent for local units of General
Motors Corp., Volkswagen AG and Electrolux AB as demand recovers.
Still, prices for hot-rolled coil were 16 percent lower than a
year earlier; while cold-rolled sheets were 14 percent lower.
The company cut prices of carbon steel products, it said.  
 China's crude steel output rose 21 percent to 272 million
metric tons in the first eight months of this year after rising
27 percent in 2005.  
 The nation's mills, which supply one third of the world's
steel, gained 5.7 percent in aggregate profit in the first nine
months after falling 2.5 percent through August, the National
Bureau of Statistics said on October 24.  
 `Best Time'  
 ``This is the best time to increase holdings of steel
shares since 2006 is the worst for the industry.'' said Wu.  
 Brokerages including Credit Suisse Group and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. have raised ratings on steel stocks including Maanshan
Iron & Steel Co. on an improved outlook for prices.  
 Still, Baoshan and other Chinese mills may fail to prevent
a further increase in prices of  iron ore , the main steelmaking
ingredient, next year, analysts have said.  
 Soaring demand and limited mine expansion have driven ore
prices to rise for four consecutive years, with a 19 percent
gain this year. Prices may climb a further 10 percent next year
on stronger-than-expected demand from China, Credit Suisse Group
said in a report yesterday.  
 Baosteel will start negotiations for next year's prices
with global suppliers including  Australia 's BHP Billiton and Rio
Tinto Group and  Brazil 's Cia. Vale do Rio Doce late next month,
Baosteel's chief negotiator Liu Yongshun said Oct. 15. The price
agreed upon will be effective from April 1, 2007.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Helen Yuan in  Shanghai  at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keith Gosman at 
 kgosman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        