-- Polyus Gold Reserves Climb to World's Fourth Biggest
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2007-09-11T11:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-11/polyus-gold-reserves-climb-to-world-s-fourth-biggest-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Polyus Gold, which mines a
fifth of Russia's gold, raised its reserves estimate by 35
percent after the Natalka field was confirmed as the world's
third-largest deposit of the precious metal.  
 The estimate of proven and probable reserves increased to
68.6 million ounces, the world's fourth biggest, from 50.8
million ounces, the Moscow-based miner said in an e-mailed
statement today. The reserves now surpass those of South
Africa's  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and Harmony Gold Mining Co.  
 ``Polyus's issue right now is not so much proving reserves
but mining the metal,'' said  Vladimir Zhukov , an analyst with
Alfa Bank in Moscow.  
 Polyus, controlled by Russian billionaires  Vladimir Potanin 
and  Mikhail Prokhorov , mined 1.2 million ounces of gold last
year, ranking it outside the world's top 10. The miner will
start production at the Natalka deposit in 2013, and has yet to
complete a pre-feasibility study for the deposit.  
 Natalka holds 10.3 million ounces of proven and 30.5
million ounces of probable reserves, under Australasian Joint
Ore Reserves Commission, or JORC, rules. The field will have
annual gold production of more than 1 million ounces, the
company said. Polyus already counted some of Natalka's gold in
its reserves.  
 Natalka's reserves are calculated at a gold price of $625
an ounce with the volume that is economically viable dropping at
a lower price.  
 Gold traded at $704.17 an ounce at 11:31 a.m. in London,
bringing this year's gain to 11 percent.  
 The biggest gold producers in terms of reserves are  Barrick
Gold Corp. (ABX) ,  Newmont Mining Corp (NEM) , and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        