-- Smart Online Chief, Brokers Arrested on Fraud Charges
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2007-09-11T17:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-11/smart-online-chief-brokers-arrested-on-fraud-charges-update3-.html

          
          
             Smart Online Inc. (SOLN) 's chief executive
officer, his brother and four brokers were arrested and charged
by federal authorities in  New York  with a kickback scheme to
manipulate the price of the software company's stock.  
 Smart Online CEO Dennis Nouri and his brother Reeza, an
employee, were accused of conspiring to pump up the price of
their company's stock before it was publicly listed on the Nasdaq
Capital Market, formerly the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, U.S.
Attorney  Michael Garcia  said in a statement in New York today.  
 ``The CEO and his brother bribed brokers to sell Smart
Online stock to their customers so that the price of the stock
went up,'' Garcia said in the statement.  
 The defendants were charged with one count of  securities
fraud , which carries a maximum 20-year prison term and fines of
up to $5 million, Garcia said in the statement. They were also
charged with one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud,
which carries a term of up to five years.  
 Nouri and his brother were arrested today in North Carolina
and were scheduled to be presented later today before a federal
magistrate in Durham, prosecutors said. Four brokers, accused of
participating in the stock fraud scheme, were also arrested and
are scheduled to be presented before a federal magistrate in
 Manhattan  later today, Garcia's office said.  
 The fraud took place from May 2005 through July of that
year, Garcia said.  
 The felony complaint filed by prosecutors against the
defendants quotes conversations Dennis Nouri had with an unnamed
cooperating witness. Nouri describes plans to bribe brokers and
artificially drive up the price of the stock just as it was about
to be listed, according to the complaint.  
 In a Jan. 13, 2006, recorded conversation, prosecutors said,
Michael Nouri instructed the cooperating witness: ``Tell your guy
who is selling it not to sell until on NASDAQ. Sell at a good
price.''  
 He was also recording tell brokers how to avoid detection,
according to the complaint.  
 Smart Online is a developer of Internet-delivered software-as-services applications that is based in Durham,  North Carolina .
Tom Furr, a spokesman for Smart Online, didn't immediately return
a telephone call seeking comment about the case.  
 Names of the defendants' lawyers were not immediately
available.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        