-- Key dealer sees Chrysler holding pickup truck share
-- 
-- Thu Feb 15, 2007 10:48pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/02/16/businesspro-cu-lithia-pickups-dc-idUSPAR61365320070216

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - A major Chrysler Group retailer expects 
the struggling No. 4 U.S. automaker to maintain its share of 
the pickup truck market this year by offering generous 
discounts in the face of tough competition. 


  Sid DeBoer, chief executive of Lithia Motors Inc. ( LAD.N ), 
said Chrysler would have to maintain higher sales incentives on 
its Dodge line of trucks in the face of newer offerings from 
General Motors Corp. ( GM.N ) and Toyota Motor Corp. ( 7203.T )  "Dodge will have to have higher incentives until they get 
their new truck out," DeBoer said in a conference call to 
discuss Lithia's quarterly earnings. "That will drive and 
maintain their share. I don't see any decline in share for 
their truck volume."  Chrysler, which this week announced a restructuring plan 
intended to cut 16 percent of its work force and restore the 
company to profitability by next year, has a lot riding on the 
continued success of its Ram pickup truck line.  The vehicle is the single best-selling model for Chrysler, 
a unit of DaimlerChrysler AG DCXGn.DE.  The pickup truck accounted for almost 17 percent of the 
automaker's sales last year at a time when Chrysler was reeling 
from a costly inventory build-up that drove it to a $1.48 
billion operating loss.  But Chrysler has had to support its truck and SUV sales by 
offering the most aggressive discounts in the industry.  Auto tracking service Edmunds.com estimates Chrysler spent 
an average of $3,853 in incentives per vehicle last month to 
sell off its inventory -- more than three times the amount 
spent by Toyota.  DeBoer said those incentives gave the Ram pickup truck a 
price advantage Chrysler would need to maintain until it gets 
new models to showrooms, which is not expected until late next 
year.  "That's a great truck and it is way cheaper than everyone 
else's when they put the money on it and they'll keep the money 
on it," DeBoer said.  Chrysler's problems in 2006 were compounded by a near 
revolt from its dealership owners, who complained that the 
automaker was forcing them to take unwanted inventory and 
vehicles with the wrong combinations of features.  Chrysler CEO Tom LaSorda, who also took over as sales chief 
late last year, has made repairing strained relations with 
dealers one of his top priorities.  Lithia ranks as a major Chrysler retail outlet. Chrysler 
brand vehicles, including Jeep and Dodge, accounted for 40 
percent of Lithia's fourth-quarter sales.  DeBoer also said he did not expect Toyota's full-size 
Tundra pickup to cut into sales for GM's recently launched 
Silverado in the increasingly competitive segment.  Toyota has called the launch of the Tundra, which debuts 
this year, the most important in the history of the company and 
its chance to move into the last segment of the U.S. auto 
market still dominated by domestic manufacturers.  "I think when it faces off against the new Chevrolet, the 
Chevrolet may end up being ranked above it," DeBoer said of the 
Tundra.  He added: "Toyota has a great truck. It will sell the 
production out. It will cost everyone a few units here and 
there, but I think overall it may be that people trade in 
smaller trucks on the new Tundra."