-- Vista revenue forecasts too aggressive: Microsoft CEO
-- By  Daisuke Wakabayashi  and  Michael Kahn
-- Thu Feb 15, 2007 8:04pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/02/16/businesspro-microsoft-dc-idUSN1519795020070216

 

 SEATTLE  (Reuters) - Microsoft Corp. ( MSFT.O ) Chief 
Executive Steve Ballmer said on Thursday analysts' forecasts 
for revenue from Windows Vista in fiscal 2008 were "overly 
aggressive." 


  Ballmer's comments come two weeks after the world's largest 
software maker released Vista, the upgrade to its ubiquitous 
Windows operating system, and predicted that consumers will 
move to Vista faster than past Windows upgrades.  In a strategy presentation to analysts, Ballmer said Vista 
will create a "small surge" in PC sales in fiscal 2008, but 
would not spur a big increase over normal growth rates.  "Some of the revenue models and revenue forecasts I've seen 
out there for Windows Vista are overly aggressive," said 
Ballmer. "I don't think that much new money will race out of 
the consumers pockets into PCs."  In January, Microsoft made available Windows Vista after 
more than five years of development and numerous delays. 
Windows runs on more than 95 percent of the world's computers 
and represents the company's biggest profit driver.  The Windows franchise is the centerpiece of Microsoft's 
business, because the company makes more than 75 cents in 
operating profit for every dollar of sales. The cash flow 
generated by Windows allows Microsoft to make investments in 
new business like digital music players and online services.  Investor optimism about Windows Vista helped to push the 
shares up 30 percent since June even though the stock has 
dipped in recent weeks.  Microsoft shares fell 1.2 percent in extended trading on 
Thursday to $29.10 from a Nasdaq close of $29.46.  Todd Lowenstein, a co-portfolio manager for HighMark 
Capital Management's Value Momentum Fund, which has about 3 
percent of its $1.5 billion in assets in Microsoft, said the 
market may have gotten a little too excited about Vista.  "The stock had a good run recently and maybe it got a 
little ahead of the fundamentals," said Lowenstein. "There will 
ultimately be a migration to Vista and we think it's going to 
be a huge catalyst."  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft forecasts sales at the 
Windows business to increase 11 percent to 12 percent in the 
current fiscal year ending in June from last year's revenue of 
$13.2 billion.  When one analyst told Ballmer that he was forecasting for 6 
percent growth in the Windows business for the 2008 fiscal year 
starting in July, the CEO laughed and said that was a "small 
but not tiny" number.  Analysts on average expect Microsoft to generate sales of 
$56.4 billion in fiscal 2008, which would be an increase of 12 
percent from this year's estimates, according to Reuters 
Estimates. Earnings per share are expected to rise 15 percent 
to $1.69 in fiscal 2008.  Ballmer forecast operating margins in Microsoft's Windows 
and Office businesses -- the company's two biggest units -- to 
be stable over the next few years.
  SCALED-BACK EXPENSES  Ballmer forecast Microsoft's fiscal 2008 operating expense 
growth to be "somewhat less" than the previous year, likely a 
bit below $2.7 billion.  Last year, Microsoft stunned investors with a plan to spend 
an additional $2.7 billion in expenses across the company 
including about $500 million to beef up its online business.  "We will have moderating growth in operating expenses next 
year, but I wouldn't expect a huge drop," Ballmer said.  Microsoft said the company was willing to spend money to 
acquire online customers as it battles for share against rival 
Google Inc. ( GOOG.O ). Ballmer said the company wanted to close 
the gap in online search against Google and continue to make 
strides in Web display advertising.  Ballmer also said Microsoft did not plan any major strategy 
shifts in how it returns cash to shareholders through buybacks 
and other means.  Microsoft started a share buyback program in August that 
authorizes the company to repurchase up to $36 billion worth of 
its share through June 30, 2011.