-- Kazakhstan has right to intervene in key projects: PM
-- By  Maria Golovnina
-- Thu Dec 6, 2007 3:01am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/06/businesspro-kazakhstan-kashagan-dc-idUSL0658975920071206

 

 ASTANA  (Reuters) - Kazakhstan will exercise its right to 
intervene in natural resources projects if one of the investors 
tries to sell out, Kazakh Prime Minister Karim Masimov said on 
Thursday. 

  Kazakhstan is locked in a row with the Eni-led ( ENI.MI ) 
group developing the huge Kashagan oilfield over cost overruns 
and production delays. Kazakhstan has said one of the members, 
Exxon Mobil ( XOM.N ), is against a proposed settlement plan.  Speaking at a business conference in Astana, Masimov 
stressed Kazakhstan's commitment to the continuity of existing 
contracts in the natural resources sector.  "But if an investor has broken a contract, the government 
has the right to review (the contract). Also, if an investor is 
selling its natural resource business, then the government has 
the right to intervene in this case," he said.  "We are holding talks on Kashagan. I hope that this 
question will be settled soon," he added, without specifying in 
what way the government might intervene.  Kazakhstan has passed legislation this year that allows the 
government to change or break contracts with natural resources 
companies if it sees a threat to national security.  Kazakhstan wants the Kashagan consortium members to reduce 
their shareholdings and significantly raise state oil company 
KazMunaiGas's 8.3 percent interest. Kazakhstan's energy 
minister said this week that Exxon was against the plan.  The U.S. oil company, which has an 18.52 percent stake in 
Kashagan, has not commented on the matter and the mechanism of 
the proposal remains unclear.  Other Kashagan members are Eni, Royal Dutch Shell ( RDSa.L ) 
and Total ( TOTF.PA ), who all hold stakes of similar size to 
Exxon. Smaller stakes belong to ConocoPhilips, with 9.26 
percent, and Japan's Inpex ( 1605.T ), with 8.33 percent.  Kazakhstan has accused the consortium of a host of 
violations, including ecological, and blamed its management for 
allowing costs to spiral and delaying the start of production.  The Caspian Sea field is at the heart of Kazakhstan's 
ambition to triple oil output by 2017. It is now due to start 
pumping oil in 2010, instead of the original 2005 target.  (Editing by  Tomasz Janowski )