-- India Reduces Iron-Ore Export Tax, Scraps Flat Levy
-- Debarati Roy
-- 2007-05-03T12:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-03/india-reduces-iron-ore-export-tax-scraps-flat-levy-update1-.html

          
          
             India 's government replaced the flat
tax on exports of  iron ore  with one linked to the grade of the
mineral after some Chinese steelmakers boycotted purchases of
the commodity from the South Asian nation.  
 Shipments of iron ore fines with ferrous content of less
than 62 percent will be taxed at 50 rupees ($1.2) a metric ton,
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told parliament today.
The government on Feb. 28 announced a tax 300 rupees a ton all
grades to ensure supplies are enough to meet domestic demand.  
 The tax prompted at least 10 steelmakers in  China  to halt
imports from India, causing exports from the South Asian nation
in March to fall by a third to 7 million tons. A lower tax may
deter Chinese mills from seeking more supplies from Australia
and  Brazil , the world's biggest exporters of the commodity.  
 ``This will help exporters especially from Goa who export
low-grade fines,'' said S.B. Chauhan, who advises the iron ore
federation. Goa, a western Indian state, accounts for almost 30
percent of India's exports of the commodity.  
 India was the third-biggest supplier to China in last year,
providing about a quarter of 326 million tons of imports by the
world's biggest steel-producing nation. India shipped 89 million
tons of the commodity in the year ended March 31, 2006, of which
27 million tons were fines with a ferrous content of less than
62 percent, according to the federation.  
 Lower Profit  
 Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) , India's largest non-state iron ore exporter,
save 100 million rupees in tax because of the reduction, said
Managing Director P. Mukherjee. The company, which agreed to be
bought by the London-based  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , ships 400,000
tons of low-grade ore, or 4 percent of its total sales, he said.  
 A flat 300 rupees tax on all grades would have lowered the
company's profit by 1.8 billion rupees in the year to March 31,
2008, Mukherjee had said March 1. The company paid 335 million
rupees in tax in the fourth quarter ended March 31.  
 A panel set up by the government to overhaul India's mining
laws had suggested a tax on exports of high-grade iron-ore lumps,
instead of fines, because of poor domestic demand for the latter,
the trade body has said. Steel Authority of India Ltd. and Tata
Steel Ltd., the country's biggest producers, mine their own ore,
forcing miners to export fines.  
 Out of every 100 metric tons of iron ore produced in India,
60 tons are fines and the rest are lumps.  
 Five straight years of increases, fueled by Chinese demand,
have tripled global iron-ore prices. Rates for 2007 climbed 9.5
percent after rising a record 19 percent last year. Brazil's Cia.
Vale do Rio Doce,  BHP Billiton  and Rio Tinto Group control two-
thirds of the global iron-ore trade.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in Mumbai at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        