-- Scania Chief Considers Plant in Russia as Orders Rise
-- Jeremy van Loon
-- 2007-05-03T16:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-03/scania-chief-considers-plant-in-russia-as-orders-rise-update3-.html

          
          
             Scania AB (SCVA)  Chief Executive Officer Leif Oestling is considering producing vehicles in  Russia  as  Sweden 's
second-largest maker of heavy trucks receives a surge of orders
from the world's second-largest oil producing country.  
 ``It may become necessary to make further investments in
capacity and one country we are looking at closely is Russia,''
Oestling said in a speech prepared for the company's annual
meeting. ``If this growth trend continues, in a few years or so,
Russia is going to become Scania's largest market.''  
 Oestling in January compared the current need for increased
transport capacity in eastern  Europe  and Russia to growth in
western Europe after World War II. Soedertaelje, Sweden-based
Scania said last month first-quarter truck orders, an indicator
of future sales, rose 45 percent as eastern European orders more
than doubled and profit rose 44 percent.  
 German competitor MAN AG, which may merge with Scania and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) 's truck division, today announced first-quarter
orders gained 23 percent to 4.8 billion euros ($6.5 billion), led
by rising demand from eastern Europe and Russia.  
 Scania plans to boost production 54 percent to 100,000
trucks and buses a year by 2010 to meet the rising demand. The
truckmaker, which has a third of the Russian truck market, said
March 21 that it won an order for 144 trucks from X5 Retail
Group, a Russian grocer.  
 Shares of Scania fell 4 kronor, or 0.6 percent, to 636
kronor. The stock has gained 32 percent this year, valuing the
company at about 129.4 billion kronor ($19.2 billion).  
 Winterkorn Election  
 Scania investors at today's annual general meeting in
Soedertaelje selected Volkswagen Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  as the new board chairman, replacing former Volkswagen
CEO Bernd Pischetsrieder.  
 Volkswagen, Scania's  largest shareholder  with 36.4 percent
of the  voting rights , also gained an additional two board seats,
after shareholders voted in favor of having Volkswagen managers
Hans Dieter Poetsch and Francisco Javier Garcia Sanz join.  
 Volkswagen, which became Munich-based MAN's  largest investor 
last October, is set to have its Chairman  Ferdinand Piech  and two
additional executives from the Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker
join the MAN board next week. Volkswagen is seeking a
``friendly'' combination that would create Europe's largest
truckmaker, surpassing Daimler Chrysler AG and  Volvo AB. (VOLVB)   
 ``I would like to ask about this potential conflict of
interest with Volkswagen owning MAN shares,'' Gunnar Ek, a
representative of the Swedish Shareholders Association, said.
``This is certainly not an optimal situation.''  
 Scania shareholders today also voted in favor of a proposal
to hand back 10 billion kronor to investors as booming European
sales leave truckmakers flush with cash. Shareholders will
receive a 2006 payout of 50 kronor a share. The amount includes a
cash  dividend  of 15 kronor, and an extra 35 kronor through a 5-
for-1 stock split.  
 Scania, MAN and Volvo have all increased 2006 shareholder
payments after posting record profit last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chad Thomas in  Stockholm  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Berlin at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        