-- UPDATE 4-AT&T hikes dividend, share buybacks; shares rise
-- 
-- Tue Dec 11, 2007 5:56pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/11/att-idUSN1149251420071211

 

  (Adds comments on acquisitions, closing shares) 

  By  Sinead Carew NEW YORK  Dec 11 (Reuters) - AT&T Inc ( T.N ) on Tuesday
announced a share buyback program worth nearly $16 billion at
current prices and its biggest-ever dividend increase, sending
shares of the top U.S. phone company up as much as 7 percent.  The boost to shareholder returns was bigger than investors
had expected and came with AT&T's forecasts for long-term
revenue growth in the mid-single-digit percentage range or
better, also stronger than some analysts had anticipated.  "The dividend and buyback will give the stock a lot of
support if we do enter a recession," said UBS analyst John
Hodulik. "They're just producing a lot of cash."  Chief Executive Randall Stephenson said at AT&T's annual
meeting with analysts in New York that the company was seeing
growth in its enterprise and wholesale segments, as well as
wireless and video services.  The company forecast double-digit percentage growth in
adjusted earnings per share in 2008 and mid-teens percentage
growth in revenue from its wireless business, including the
newly acquired Dobson Communications Corp.  It also said it expects annual consolidated revenue growth
in the mid-single-digit percentage range for 2008 and beyond.  "The big change today is we're looking at meaningful
long-term revenue growth ... that should result in multiple
expansion," said JP Morgan analyst Jonathan Chaplin, adding
that AT&T's share-price trading multiple could increase by 15
to 20 percent as a result of the outlook.  Shares in AT&T, a component of the Dow Jones Industrial
Average, rose as high as $40.69 on the news before closing at
$39.46, still up 4.1 percent on the New York Stock Exchange on
a day when the Dow and other indexes fell more than 2 percent.
Shares in rival Verizon Communications Inc ( VZ.N ) fell 1.9
percent to $44.47.  DIVIDEND UP 12.7 PCT  AT&T said it would raise its quarterly dividend to 40 cents
a share from 35.5 cents. The 12.7 percent increase is the
largest in the company's history.  It said it would complete a newly authorized buyback of 400
million shares by the end of 2009. At current market prices,
the buyback is worth $15.8 billion, equivalent to nearly 7
percent of AT&T's market value of more than $230 billion.  Through Dec. 7, AT&T had repurchased more than $13 billion
of stock under a buyback program announced in 2006.  "We have good momentum right now and you can expect that
ramp to continue," Stephenson said. "We're just pretty darn
confident with where we are."  The CEO also said AT&T was not missing any "big pieces" in
order to execute its strategy, in response to a question about
his position on mergers and acquisitions. He added that AT&T
would continue to look at deals that make sense, such as
acquisitions that expand its network footprint.  Analysts have speculated that satellite television provider
EchoStar ( DISH.O ) could be AT&T's next acquisition target. AT&T
has a marketing pact with EchoStar in some markets and with
satellite rival DirecTV ( DTV.O ) in other markets.  AT&T said it would stop selling DirecTV services in the
first quarter, though a final decision on its satellite
partnership could take until late 2008. Its existing
partnership with EchoStar extends until the end of next year.  AT&T, which completed its acquisition of BellSouth late
last year, forecast that savings from merger synergies and
other items would increase by $2 billion in 2008.  The company forecast that 2008 cash flow would rise to
between $16 billion and $17 billion before dividends. In
October it had forecast 2007 free cash flow after dividends of
$6 billion to $7 billion.  As well as battling phone rivals such as Verizon  and
Sprint Nextel Corp ( S.N ), AT&T is building a video service to
compete with cable operators such as Comcast Corp ( CMCSA.O ).  AT&T said it plans to extend its advanced broadband and
video service, called U-verse, to 30 million customer locations
by 2010. This compares with its earlier plan to pass 17 million
homes with the service in 2008.  "That's a significant expansion," Hodulik noted.  AT&T said it expects to end 2008 with more than 1 million
U-verse video customers. It expects its U-verse investment to
reduce 2008 earnings per share by an "incremental" 12 to 14
cents.
 (Additional reporting by  Ritsuko Ando ; Editing by Dave
Zimmerman,  Gary Hill )





