-- IMF board to back overhaul of members' voting power
-- By  Lesley Wroughton
-- Fri Mar 28, 2008 3:03am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/28/businesspro-imf-vote-dc-idUSN2740767520080328

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The International Monetary Fund 
board on Friday will recommend a landmark overhaul in the 
voting power of member countries, with emerging economies 
saying they will settle for less than they wanted. 

  The proposed changes have won the support of key large 
emerging economies China, India, South Korea, Mexico and 
Brazil, which will gain voting power according to a new formula 
for calculating each country's so-called quotas, or membership 
subscriptions.  Others, Egypt, Iran, Saudi Arabia and Russia are likely to 
abstain from Friday's vote because the changes reduce their 
votes, while smaller European nations such as Luxembourg gain.  Rather than extending grueling negotiations that have 
stretched on for more than a year over voting power in the IMF, 
most emerging economies decided to accept what they could get 
now and plan to keep pushing for more.  "We're not happy about the proposal because it falls short 
of what we had expected, hoped for and we had strived for,"  India's Executive Director to the IMF, Adarsh Kishore, told 
Reuters. "We had two choices: some forward movement, the other 
is no movement at all."  Kishore said a key demand by emerging economies that a new 
shareholding formula should take into account economic weight 
by purchasing power parity (PPP), not just market exchange 
rates, had been accepted.  "For the first time PPP has been recognized as a factor in 
the formula ... which is a positive sign," he said in an 
interview.
  REAL THREAT  Still, Kishore acknowledged that the changes, making the 
IMF more representative of its 185 members, would not be enough 
to restore the Fund's legitimacy.  "It has to be seen against a very real threat that unless 
we have real movement now, then we are in a real danger of 
eroding whatever is left of our legitimacy," he said. 
"Obviously it is not entirely satisfactory, obviously we are 
not gung-ho about it, but we do see some forward movement," he 
said.  Friday's board meeting is expected to pass a resolution 
recommending a new quota formula, ad hoc increases for some 
members and a tripling of so-called basic votes of each 
country. Basic votes are distributed equally to each member 
regardless of economic importance, so that Africa does not lose 
ground to more dynamic Asia and Latin America.  IMF's board of governors, made up of finance ministers or 
central bank chiefs of the fund's 185 member countries, will 
vote on the changes in voting power after the IMF spring 
meeting on April 11 and 12 in Washington.  Sources said 54 countries, mainly emerging economies, would 
gain voting power under the new formula including Brazil, 
India, China, Thailand, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, 
Hungary, Poland and Botswana.  Since the inception of the IMF in 1944, Europe and the 
United States have dominated the institution that oversees 
global financial stability.  While developing and emerging economies acknowledge that 
proposed changes represent some progress, they say the 
proposals do not sufficiently shift voting power away from 
dominant industrial countries to developing nations, as 
intended.  Some of the biggest opposition to the voting reform plan 
came this week from a group of influential Washington-based 
academics who said the changes fell far short of what was 
needed to significantly realign nations' quotas with their 
rising influence in the world economy.  International development group Oxfam said the proposal 
meant "minimal" change in the IMF's voting structure.  "After years of debate, a proposal that gives only a small 
increase in quota share for a handful of developing countries 
-- and none for the rest -- would be more than disappointing," 
Oxfam's policy advisor Elizabeth Stuart said.  "The Europeans need to give up their overly dominant 
position. It's unacceptable that Ireland, Greece and Luxembourg 
are about to see an increase in their voice, while poor 
countries that make up 70 percent of the IMF's work, gain 
nothing," she added.  (Editing by  Tomasz Janowski )