-- Sen. Schumer urges new financial regulation: report
-- 
-- Fri Mar 28, 2008 3:52am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/28/businesspro-financials-schumer-dc-idUSN2833735020080328

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Sen. Charles Schumer on Friday called 
for a rethinking of the U.S. financial regulatory system, 
perhaps moving toward a single regulator, following the 
collapse this month of Bear Stearns Cos BSC.N. 

  In an opinion published in the Wall Street Journal, the New 
York Democrat and Senate Banking Committee member said the 
creation of a global financial market and slew of new financial 
instruments had left commercial banks, investment banks, 
broker-dealers, traders, insurers, hedge funds and private 
equity firms increasingly linked to each other's fate.  The regulatory scheme had not kept pace with these 
developments, he said, with commercial banks highly regulated, 
but investment banks and hedge funds, for example, subject to 
less stringent regulation despite overlapping business in some 
areas.  Schumer suggested the United States look closely at the 
U.K. model, where he said a single, strong financial regulator 
focuses on results and not rules, and might have called on Bear 
to shore up capital before liquidity fell short.  Other goals include focusing on controlling systemic risk 
and ensuring stability, regulating currently unregulated parts 
of the financial market and complex financial instruments, 
recognizing that a global financial world requires global 
solutions, improving transparency, and ending what he called 
the Bush administration's "hostility" to regulation.  Schumer pledged to work with Sen. Christopher Dodd, the 
Connecticut Democrat who chairs the banking committee, to start 
the process.  Bear agreed this week to a revised takeover by JPMorgan 
Chase & Co ( JPM.N ), which increased its offer for the 
investment bank from $2 to $10 per share, still more than 90 
percent below where it had traded for much of the previous 
year.  (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel, editing by Will Waterman)