-- Fannie and Freddie free to set size of capital raise
-- By  Al Yoon
-- Fri Mar 28, 2008 6:56pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/28/businesspro-fanniemae-ofheo-dc-idUSN2845091520080328

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Fannie Mae FNM.N and Freddie Mac 
FRE.N regulator on Friday said it is up to the housing 
finance companies to determine how much money they must raise 
to buoy the U.S. housing market. 

  The regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise 
Oversight, said it was clarifying an earlier statement made by 
its director indicating the combined amount could be as high as 
$20 billion, more than twice what many analysts had expected.  Ofheo this month eased constraints on the 
government-chartered companies in an agreement that prods them 
to raise "significant" amounts of capital. The move allows the 
GSEs to boost their support of the housing market through the 
purchase of hundreds of billions of dollars in loans or 
mortgage securities.  Freddie Mac distanced itself from such a large figure on 
Thursday when its Chief Financial Officer said it was not even 
considering raising $10 billion of new capital. A statement 
from Chief Executive Officer Richard Syron on Friday indicated 
the company understood any capital raising would be less than 
$3 billion, based on terms of the joint agreement.  Shares of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac fell more than 6 
percent on Friday on concern that a larger-than-expected move 
to raise capital would dilute shareholders' interests. Analysts 
had expected the companies would each need to raise between $3 
billion and $5 billion to increase asset purchases while 
maintaining a cushion against losses.  Capital levels at the GSEs have come under increased 
scrutiny in recent months. While the GSEs have enough capital 
now, the companies are under stress as they walk a line between 
curbing record losses and increasing their role in stabilizing 
the ailing U.S. housing market.  Ofheo Director James Lockhart made an impromptu statement 
in what the agency said clarified comments to Bloomberg News on 
Thursday indicating the companies could raise $20 billion.  "I expect the companies to determine the amount within a 
broad range based upon mortgage market needs, the expected 
return to their shareholders and the advice they receive from 
investment bankers," Lockhart said.  Freddie Mac's Syron in a statement on Friday said nothing 
has changed since the March 19 announcement made with Ofheo and 
Fannie Mae. Any capital raised would be consistent with the 
dollar amount of the reduction in the capital surplus mandate, 
he said.  The GSEs' capital surplus mandate of 30 percent was lowered 
to 20 percent. Based on December data, the Ofheo-required 
amount would fall to $31.2 billion from $33.8 billion  Freddie Mac CFO Buddy Piszel told investors in Boston on 
Thursday that $10 billion in new capital "is not even in our 
lexicon," according to Citigroup Inc. analyst Bradley Ball, in 
a research note.  Piszel asserted that Freddie Mac was not planning a 
"dilutive capital raise," Ball wrote, reiterating comments made 
to investors in New York on February 12. The CFO also indicated 
it was unlikely any capital-raising effort would happen soon.  A Freddie Mac spokeswoman said Piszel confirmed his 
comments made on Thursday.  The timing of any capital raise is affected by the 
proximity of the end of the first quarter, Freddie Mac's 
process of registering with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, and mid-May quarterly earnings reports, according 
to Ball's note.  Citigroup's Ball recommended investors purchase the stock 
on "erroneous speculation" of a large capital raising effort.  A Fannie Mae spokesman declined to comment.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac hold charters from the 
government to support homeownership. They do that by raising 
money from investors to support combined investments of $1.4 
trillion, and honor guarantees on loans backing mortgage 
securities they issue.  The GSEs last quarter raised nearly $14 billion in capital 
with preferred stock sales, but much of that has been eroded by 
$6.1 billion in losses for that quarter. Both boosted their 
estimates for credit losses in 2008 on expectations of steeper 
drops in U.S. home prices.  (Reporting by Al Yoon; Editing by  Diane Craft )