-- California may create bond insurer, rival Buffett
-- By Anastasija Johnson
-- Thu Mar 27, 2008 8:43pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/28/businesspro-california-insurer-dc-idUSN2746640920080328

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - California Treasurer Bill Lockyer is 
exploring the possibility of having state pension funds create 
a new bond insurer, his spokesman said on Thursday. 

  Lockyer has no immediate plans to use Berkshire Hathaway's 
( BRKa.N ) new bond insurance unit following congressional 
testimony earlier this month by Ajit Jain, the head of the 
Berkshire unit, said Tom Dresslar, the spokesman for the 
California treasurer.  In his testimony, Jain defended using different ratings for 
municipal and corporate issuers that created the need for bond 
insurance, Dresslar said.  Lockyer is trying to change this double-rating system 
because it drives up borrowing costs for states and local 
governments. He also wants state pension funds to pressure 
Standard & Poor's to modify how it rates municipal bonds.  Berkshire, run by billionaire investor Warren Buffett, 
entered the municipal bond insurance sector this year after a 
request from the New York insurance superintendent following 
the collapse of investor confidence in the existing insurers.  Buffett saw the new venture as an attractive opportunity, 
but California might prove a tough market.  "The treasurer's view is -- unless we get a word from Mr. 
Buffett that he doesn't share the view expressed in Mr. Jain's 
(testimony) we won't have any interest in doing business with 
Mr. Buffett's insurance company," Dresslar said.  Spokesmen for Berkshire Hathaway and Standard & Poor's had 
no immediate comment.  Also on Thursday, California's insurance commissioner, 
Steve Poizner, said in a statement he approved Buffett's new 
bond insurer in a swifter than usual fashion because there are 
too few companies, a problem he termed a "capacity issue."  Jason Kimbrough, the insurance commissioner's spokesman, 
said that if the California Public Employees' Retirement 
System, or Calpers, were to soon create a bond insurer it too 
might be swiftly approved for a new license.  "If they did this rather quickly and the market conditions 
were very similar to what they are right now, we would most 
likely expedite it like we did for Berkshire Hathaway," he 
said.  But Calpers might have to clear a California regulatory 
hurdle that governs an agency of the state or government owning 
an insurer. "I think Calpers may have some additional 
stipulations they would have to meet," Kimbrough said, adding 
he did not yet have more details on this provision.
  CRITIC OF S&P MUNI RATINGS  Lockyer also wants state pension funds to pressure Standard 
& Poor's to change its municipal rating policy to equalize 
state and government debt ratings with corporate ratings.  Credit agencies have historically used a different rating 
scale for the $2.6 trillion municipal bond market to allow 
investors to better compare the relative riskiness of tens of 
thousands of tax-exempt bond issuers.  But this practice often resulted in municipal bonds getting 
lower ratings than corporate bonds with equivalent default 
risk, raising borrowing costs for state and local governments.  Standard & Poor's stands behind its present rating system. 
The agency said last week that municipal investors widely 
understand its method and that municipal bonds are already 
rated higher than corporate bonds, with 99 percent of all munis 
considered investment grade.  Moody's Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have taken 
steps to address issuers' concerns and are weighing whether to 
harmonize their muni and corporate rating systems.  Dresslar said Lockyer has had preliminary discussions about 
the new bond insurer with the $235 billion Calpers, which is 
the biggest U.S. pension fund. The treasurer will also pursue 
this proposal with the California State Teachers' Retirement 
System, or Calsters.  Lockyer is a board member of Calpers, which holds 1.8 
million shares of Standard & Poor's owner McGraw-Hill MHP.N, 
Dresslar said. The California treasurer also is a board member 
of Calsters, but Dresslar did not know how many McGraw-Hill 
shares it owns.  About half of all municipal bonds are insured but U.S. 
states, cities and towns increasingly are skipping this 
protection because investors now shun their debt unless it is 
backed by the very few insurers who did not imperil their 
top-notch ratings with profit-eating subprime plays.  Since tax-free bonds have such a low default rate of less 
than 1 percent, insuring this type of debt can be both 
exceptionally profitable and low risk, credit agencies say.  (Additional reporting by  Joan Gralla )  (Editing by  Jan Paschal )