-- Kohl's quarterly profit rises 45 percent
-- By  Nicole Maestri
-- Thu Nov 9, 2006 7:11pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/10/businesspro-retail-kohls-earns-dc-idUSWEN954520061110

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Kohl's Corp. ( KSS.N ) said on Thursday 
its third-quarter earnings jumped 45 percent as the department 
store operator opened new stores and its focus on offering 
exclusive, name-brand merchandise attracted more shoppers. 

  Kohl's also raised its full-year profit forecast, citing 
the stronger-than-expected quarterly results. But it left its 
outlook for the fourth-quarter, which includes the 
all-important holiday shopping season, unchanged.  "The ability to beat fourth-quarter earnings is what 
everybody is hoping for," said Dana Telsey, founder of 
independent research firm Telsey Advisory Group. "I think they 
want to see how the sales come in for November and December 
before making any adjustments."  Kohl's, which runs a chain of mid-priced department stores, 
said third-quarter net income rose to $224.5 million, or 68 
cents per share, from $155.1 million, or 45 cents per share, a 
year earlier.  Analysts, on average, had been expecting it to earn 64 
cents per share, according to Reuters Estimates.  Kohl's and rival J.C. Penney Co. Inc. ( JCP.N ) are 
increasing sales by stocking their shelves with more stylish 
and exclusive items, and by opening more stores closer to their 
shoppers.  Next year, Kohl's will start selling an exclusive line of 
clothing and handbags by designer Vera Wang and a line of Food 
Network home goods.  Kohl's results come after J.C. Penney said earlier in the 
day that strong sales of its private brands helped fuel a 23 
percent rise in its third-quarter profit, and it raised its 
fourth-quarter earnings forecast.  Kohl's quarterly sales rose 16.6 percent to $3.6 billion, 
which was above analysts expectations of $3.55 billion. Its 
comparable store sales -- a key retail gauge that measures 
sales at stores open at least one year -- increased 8.5 
percent.  By offering more contemporary and exclusive clothing brands 
like Chaps and Candie's, Kohl's said it is luring more 
customers to its stores and those shoppers are spending more 
money.  In the third-quarter, Kohl's said the number of 
transactions per store rose 5.3 percent, while the value of its 
average transaction rose 3.2 percent.  "These traffic increases, along with our overall 8.5 
percent comp sales results, are clear indications to us that we 
are taking market share from competition," said President Kevin 
Mansell on a conference call.  Its gross margin increased to 37.1 percent from 36.3 
percent a year earlier.  Kohl's also has opened more stores. On October 5, it opened 
65 new stores -- the largest one-day opening in its history. It 
operated 814 stores in 45 states as of October 28, up from 731 
stores in 41 states at the same time a year ago.  Kohl's said it still expects fiscal fourth-quarter earnings 
of $1.36 to $1.42 per share. Analysts are expecting 
fourth-quarter earnings per share of $1.41.  Kohl's said it now expects full-year earnings of $3.16 to 
$3.24 per share, up from its previous target of $3.04 to $3.13 
per share.  Analysts, on average, had been expecting it to earn $3.21 
per share for the year, according to Reuters Estimates.  Through Wednesday, Kohl's shares have risen 51 percent this 
year, while Penney's shares have advanced almost 41 percent and 
the Standard & Poor's Retailing Index .GSPMS has gained 8.4 
percent.