-- South African House Prices Fall as Rates Increase
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2008-05-05T12:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-05-05/south-african-house-prices-fall-as-rates-increase-update1-.html

          
          
             South African house prices fell an
annual 8.6 percent last month as borrowing costs rose, according
to  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,  Africa 's biggest lender.  
 The median price for a South African house slipped to
530,000 rand ($69,681) in April from 580,000 rand a year ago,
Johannesburg-based Standard Bank said in a  report  on its Internet
site today.  
 ``Houses are increasingly being sold at below the initial
asking price and are staying on the market for longer, and there
is increasing anecdotal evidence of a rise in distress selling
and housing stock for sale,'' the lender said. ``This suggests
that sellers have to revise their price expectations downwards,
placing downside risk to house prices.''  
 South Africa's central bank raised its benchmark interest
rate by half a percentage point to 11.5 percent on April 10, the
ninth increase since June 2006, as  inflation  exceeded its maximum
6 percent target.  
 ``The South African residential property market is expected
to experience a relatively mild cyclical downturn rather than a
full blown recession,'' Standard Bank's property economist Sizwe Nxedlana said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Standard Bank, which has a market share of about a third of
South African home loans, calculates the index from the median
house price of mortgage applications it receives.  
 On April 4,  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , the country's biggest mortgage
lender, said house-price inflation slowed to an eight-year low of
8.7 percent in March. Absa calculates the inflation rate from the
average house price, which it estimated was 980,400 rand.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        