-- Mexico's High Court Rejects Parts of Broadcast Law
-- William Freebairn
-- 2007-06-05T20:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-06-05/mexico-s-high-court-rejects-parts-of-broadcast-law-update4-.html

          
          
             Mexico's  Supreme Court  took
preliminary votes to curb rights broadcasters had gained under a
2006 law, saying it gave the two largest companies,  Grupo
Televisa SA (TLEVICPO)  and TV Azteca SA, unfair advantages.  
 Automatically letting broadcasters add data and
telecommunications services on request violates the
constitution's fairness provisions, judges said today during
deliberations in Mexico City. The court also decided that
auctioning licenses to the highest bidder is unjustified and
that 20-year license terms are too long.  
 The votes are the latest steps by the court to reshape
radio and television rules set by the 2006 law. If confirmed in
a final decision later, legislators may be forced to redraft the
law. Shares of Televisa and TV Azteca fell.  
 ``Why should we prefer colorful better-quality broadcasts
at the cost of the monochromatic monopoly of the television
companies,'' said Justice Genaro Gongora before today's vote.
The session and voting was broadcast live on local television.  
 The radio and TV law was viewed as beneficial to
broadcasters and became known as the ``Televisa law'' after its
passage during last year's presidential elections.  
 `New Law'  
 ``It looks like they are going to strike down enough
clauses so as to require Congress to write a new law,'' John
Ackerman, a professor with a legal research institute at
 Mexico 's National Autonomous University, said in a telephone
interview. ``It's important because the court has had
inconsistent criteria on monopoly issues.''  
 Shares of Televisa, the nation's largest broadcaster, fell
97 centavos, or 1.6 percent, to 60.94 pesos ($5.64) at the close
of Mexico trading. TV Azteca, the second-biggest broadcast
company, slid the most in 12 weeks, retreating 34 centavos, or
3.2 percent, to 10.44 pesos.  
 In televised sessions starting last week, the court has
rejected several sections of the law, saying they violate
Mexico's constitution. Justices decided May 29 that the law gave
too much discretion to the Ministry of Communications in
awarding licenses.  
 The vote against license auctions was 9 to 0, with two
justices absent due to illness or conflict of interest. The vote
against 20-year license terms was 8 to 1, and 9 to 0 against
automatic digital services rights. Eight votes are required to
strike down a law.  
 A final vote will be held on all the provisions at issue
when discussion of the law concludes.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
William Freebairn in Mexico City 
 wfreebairn@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        