-- Thailand's Thaksin Won't Return Until After Election
-- Anuchit Nguyen
-- 2007-06-26T06:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-06-26/thailand-s-thaksin-won-t-return-until-after-election-update1-.html

          
          
             Former Thai Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  won't return to face charges until after elections
later this year, because he's concerned about his safety and
doesn't think he'll receive a fair trial, his lawyer said.  
 ``Thaksin won't return until after elections, even though
there are charges against him pending,'' Noppadol Pattama, a
lawyer for Thaksin and his family, told reporters in Bangkok.  
 Thaksin, who has lived in exile in  London  since a September
coup, had planned to fight seizures of his Thai assets in court.
Thai investigators have frozen about $1.8 billion of his family's
bank accounts.  
 ``Thaksin is also concerned about his safety,'' Noppadol said.
``He has a lot supporters. He doesn't want any more confrontation
between his supporters and his opposition.''  
 Weekend rallies held this month in central Bangkok have
attracted as many as 10,000 anti-government protesters, prompting
officials to tighten security in the capital.  
 Thailand 's military has ``no concern whatsoever'' about
Thaksin returning to Thailand to face court charges, Sondhi Boonyarataklin, the army chief who led the coup, said in an
interview this week. The army ``can guarantee that if he returns
he will be safe,'' he said.  
 Thai prosecutors on June 21 filed charges against Thaksin and
his wife over the purchase of land from the central bank.  
 Thaksin, 57, and his wife Pojamarn Shinawatra, 50, were named
in a case filed with the  Supreme Court , Seksan Bangsombun, an
official at the Attorney General's Office, said on June 21. The
charge is the first against Thaksin since the coup.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tony Jordan  at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        