-- CME snags a big prize as NYMEX deal approved
-- By  Jonathan Spicer  and  Ros Krasny
-- Mon Aug 18, 2008 6:58pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/08/18/businesspro-cme-nymex-vote-dc-idUSN1847505320080818

 

 NEW YORK/CHICAGO  (Reuters) - CME Group Inc's ( CME.O ) 
stranglehold on the U.S. futures market grew tighter on Monday 
with the approval of its $7.6 billion purchase of energy and 
metals trading market NYMEX Holdings Inc NMX.N. 

  The Chicago-based company will now control some 98 percent 
of the trading in U.S. futures and options on futures. CME has 
said the NYMEX transaction will close on Friday.  The deal, announced in January, was contentious among some 
members at the New York Mercantile Exchange, who complained it 
undervalued NYMEX at a time when energy derivatives trading 
volume has been exploding.  Those members threatened to scuttle the bid, even as late 
as last week. In the end, intense lobbying from CME secured 650 
member votes in favor, or about 80 percent, above the 75 
percent threshold it needed.  "I think '75 percent plus one vote' is a great victory. The 
rest is irrelevant. The CME was able to get a super majority as 
they presented a strong proposition," said Diego Perfumo, an 
analyst at Equity Research Desk.  The purchase of NYMEX comes just 13 months after CME 
swallowed the Chicago Board of Trade in July 2007, which at 
that point was the second largest U.S. futures exchange.  It will end a short run for NYMEX as an independent, 
publicly traded exchange. The New York mart staged a long- 
awaited initial public offering in late 2006.  "CME wants this so badly because the futures market is ... 
one of the few monopolies left in the world. And it's a 
monopoly because they have their own clearing operation," said 
Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein.  Unlike equities and equity options, futures contracts are 
not "fungible," meaning that positions established at one 
exchange can not be offset at a competing exchange.  CME's offer of $36 and 0.1323 of a CME share for each NYMEX 
share has remained unchanged since the proposed deal was first 
announced in January.  But because CME shares have fallen some 50 percent from 
their January level, the deal's value is down more than $3.5 
billion from the original price of $11.3 billion.  In an effort to win over its critics, the Chicago company 
last month sweetened the proposed payments to NYMEX members, 
slashed the "golden parachutes" being offered to NYMEX 
executives and promised to maintain the New York trading floor 
at least until 2012.
  DOMINATION ACROSS ASSET CLASSES  Adding NYMEX's dominant energy and metals contracts will 
broaden CME's product mix, which already includes contracts 
based on U.S. interest rates, stock indexes, currencies, 
agricultural products and even esoteric products such as those 
based on weather patterns and housing prices.  The Chicago exchange could expand its horizons further, 
said Michael Henry, an exchange-strategy consultant at 
Accenture.  "They have yet to do a global deal, or an acquisition in a 
different asset class," Henry said.  In heavy after-hours trading, CME shares rose to $339, up 
0.8 percent. NYMEX shares rose 1.7 percent to $81.35.  CME has promised millions of dollars in cost savings once 
the exchanges are integrated.  Talking to reporters, company officials said the role of 
top NYMEX executives in the combined company had not been 
determined. Most of CBOT's top officials were cut in 2007 once 
the CME deal was completed.  (Additional reporting by  Phil Wahba  in New York; Editing by 
 Andre Grenon )