-- Two "Squawk box" defendants in plea discussions
-- By  Emily Chasan
-- Mon Aug 18, 2008 1:51pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/08/18/businesspro-squawkbox-trial-dc-idUSN1845243720080818

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Two men facing a second trial over 
accusations they schemed to misuse brokerage firm "squawk 
boxes" are in plea discussions with prosecutors, their 
attorneys said at a court hearing on Monday. 

  "Squawk boxes" are devices that sit on a brokerage firm's 
trading desk and broadcast institutional orders to buy and sell 
large blocks of securities.  David Ghysels, a former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc 
LEH.N broker, and Keevin Leonard, the former manager of the 
proprietary trading desk at day trading firm A.B. Watley Inc, 
could potentially enter pleas before the case goes to trial 
later this year or early in 2009, the attorneys said.  Prosecutors confirmed the discussions, at a hearing in U.S. 
District Court in Brooklyn on Monday before Judge Jack 
Weinstein.  "We are in plea discussions with Mr. Ghysels right now," 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Sean Casey said at the hearing. "There 
is a likelihood that he would be out of the case."  Leonard's attorney, Thomas Dunn, said at the hearing he 
expected to know the outcome of his client's plea discussions 
by mid-September.  The two men are part of a group of seven former brokers and 
day trading executives facing their second trial over the 
misuse of the "squawk boxes" after a Brooklyn jury acquitted 
them of fraud charges last year, but failed to reach a decision 
on the conspiracy charge, leading to a mistrial.  Prosecutors have accused Ghysels and former stock brokers 
at Merrill Lynch & Co Inc MER.N and Citigroup Inc ( C.N ) of 
conspiring to allow day traders at the now-defunct broker- 
dealer A.B. Watley Inc to listen to their firms' squawk boxes 
through open telephone lines. By doing so, prosecutors alleged, 
the Watley traders were able to trade improperly ahead of big 
orders from the brokers' institutional customers.  The retrial had been delayed because the former brokers 
appealed the propriety of a second trial based on double 
jeopardy grounds. Last month, the Second Circuit Court of 
Appeals ruled that the retrial of the conspiracy charge could 
proceed.  Weinstein set a tentative trial date for November and 
prosecutors said they expect the retrial to last about five 
weeks.  (Editing by  Andre Grenon )