-- Sun, Watson Defer on Copy of Novartis Dementia Drug
-- Susan Decker
-- 2007-12-06T22:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-12-06/sun-watson-defer-on-copy-of-novartis-dementia-drug-update1-.html

          
          
             Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) 
and  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  agreed to hold off on selling a
generic version of  Novartis AG (NOVN) 's dementia drug Exelon in the
U.S., as part of a patent litigation settlement.  
 The two companies agreed not to sell the drug ``until
sometime prior to the expiration of the patents'' owned by
Novartis, Mumbai-based Sun Pharma and Corona, California-based
Watson said in separate statements. Novartis will license the
patents to the companies, they said.  
 Novartis owns two patents on rivastigmine tartrate that
expire in 2012 and 2014, according to the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration Web site. Sun Pharma received U.S. regulatory
approval in October for its copy of Exelon. Watson has tentative
approval.  
 ``The specific date on which Watson may launch its generic
product and other details concerning the settlement have not
been disclosed,'' Watson said it its statement. Sun Pharma also
declined to disclose when it will begin sales of its generic
version of Exelon and other terms of the agreement.  
 Novartis dropped patent-infringement claims against Sun
Pharma and Watson over their proposed copies of Exelon,
according to a document filed Nov. 29 in federal court in New
York.  
 Novartis, based in Basel, Switzerland, has also sued Indian
drugmakers Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd. and Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. to block their bids to sell copies of Exelon.  
 The Exelon case is In re: Rivastigmine Patent Litigation,
05md1661, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Suresh Seshadri in Bangalore at 
 sseshadri1@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington at   sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        