-- DaimlerChrysler talks to 2 firms on small car: paper
-- 
-- Mon Oct 23, 2006 3:51am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/10/23/businesspro-autos-daimlerchrysler-car-dc-idUSL2381113120061023

 

 FRANKFURT  (Reuters) - DaimlerChrysler DCXGn.DE has cut to 
two its list of potential partners for building a small car, 
Chief Executive Dieter Zetsche told a newspaper, but is wary 
about giving any Chinese firm a leg up in the U.S. market. 

  "We spoke with a handful of possible partners and there are 
two left now," he said in an interview published on Monday in 
Germany's Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, adding that he still 
hoped to have a contract on the subcompact signed by year's 
end.  Industry sources have said China's Chery is one of the 
companies in talks, and Zetsche said cost/benefit analysis 
spoke in favor of Chery because DaimlerChrysler could not make 
small cars at costs that would make the business "comfortable."  On the other hand, he said, some partners did not offer the 
quality needed to make the small car in conjunction with U.S. 
arm Chrysler for sale in North America and elsewhere.  Asked whether he was worried that he could be giving a 
Chinese carmaker a platform to enter the U.S. market, he said:  "One reason why we have not concluded a deal with the 
potential partners is also the question of how we avoid that. 
We have very clear ideas there.  "Regardless of this, there is no doubt that not only Chery 
but also other Chinese rivals will sell their products in 
America and the rest of the world, with us or without us."  Chinese carmakers have used joint ventures with foreign 
manufacturers to build up a booming domestic industry but are 
increasingly looking to use this knowhow to develop their own 
products that can compete in China and on export markets.  One source familiar with the matter told Reuters that talks 
between Chrysler and Chery could drag on for some time given 
disagreements mainly over pricing and profit sharing.  -- Additional reporting by Fang Yan in Shanghai