-- Adelphia Noteholders Lose $1.3 Billion Bond Challenge
-- David Glovin
-- 2007-02-09T22:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-09/adelphia-noteholders-lose-1-3-billion-bond-challenge-update4-.html

          
          
             A group of Adelphia Communications
Corp. noteholders must post a $1.3 billion bond while a judge
considers objections to the company's plan to exit bankruptcy, a
federal appeals court ruled.  
 A two-judge panel in  New York  issued the ruling today, three
days after hearing arguments on the matter. The judges said the
noteholders, which include Bank of America Corp.'s Banc of
America Securities LLC and a unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., may return to the lower court to ask that the bond
requirement be modified.  
 ``There is nothing in the record that supports the group's
contention that it is unable to post a bond in the amount of $1.3
billion,'' Judges Jon O. Newman and Robert D. Sack wrote in their
ruling.  
 The holders of $1.1 billion in Adelphia notes won a stay of
the bankruptcy plan on Jan. 24 from a federal district judge in
New York, on the condition that they post the bond within three
days. The next day, an appeals court judge suspended the bond
requirement until the panel of judges could hear arguments.  
 The bond would be used to cover whatever damages other
Adelphia creditors suffered because of the delay the appeal
caused in implementing the plan.  
 Should the bondholders not be able to post the amount,
Adelphia, once the fifth-biggest U.S. cable TV company, would be
able to distribute to creditors shares in  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) 
that the company received in return for selling its assets to
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  last year.  
 Trading Postponed  
 The Jan. 24 delay imposed by U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin postponed full trading in the Time Warner Cable
shares. The noteholders object to the value the bankruptcy plan
placed on those shares.  
 ``In a circumstance like this, the debtor is well-advised to
consummate their plan as soon as possible,'' said Zach Clement, a
lawyer with Fulbright & Jaworski in Houston who isn't involved in
the Adelphia case. He said if Adelphia attorneys have planned
well, the company might be able to consummate the plan and exit
bankruptcy within hours after the ruling.  
 The appeals court doesn't typically have jurisdiction to
overrule a bond requirement, Newman and Sack said. The
noteholders asked the judges to hear the issue anyway because the
amount of the bond had the practical effect of preventing them
from appealing the bankruptcy exit plan.  
 Newman and Sack said it wasn't true that the noteholders
couldn't afford to post the bond, as they had argued. The fact
that the noteholders view the bond amount as an imprudent use of
their money doesn't give judges the right to overturn the
requirement, they wrote.  
 `Really Arguing'  
 ``What the group is really arguing is that the bond amount
so far exceeds the benefit to the group if it prevails on the
appeal that no rational creditor would put $1.3 billion at
risk,'' the judges wrote.  
 Martin Bienenstock , a lawyer for the noteholders, has said
his clients stand to get as much as $250 million extra if they
win their appeal.  
 ``To get a $250 million upside, they're being told to invest
and put at risk $1.3 billion,'' he told the judges at the Feb. 6
hearing.  
 Newman and Sack said the noteholders group could return to
Scheindlin to ask for a modification of the bond amount ``if it
can show that it is in fact unable (rather than unwilling) to
post the required amount.''  
 The noteholders could also present Scheindlin with
alternative arrangements that might lessen the harm to Adelphia's
other creditors caused by the delay in the bankruptcy plan's
implementation, the appeals judges said.  
 Comment on Ruling  
 Bienenstock, of New York's Weil, Gotshal & Manges, and
Adelphia spokesman Mark Spiecker didn't immediately return calls
seeking comment. Adam Shiff, an attorney at Kasowitz Benson
Torres & Friedman who represents the Adelphia creditors
committee, also didn't immediately return a call seeking comment.
Time Warner spokesman  Keith Cocozza  declined to comment.  
 Time Warner Cable shares rose as much as 1 percent after
news of the ruling. They closed down 50 cents at $41.25 in over-
the-counter trading. They began trading earlier this month for
$41 on a ``when issued'' basis in the over-the-counter market,
pending the court's decision.  
 Shares of New York-based Time Warner Inc., the world's
largest media company, fell 14 cents to $21.28 today in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Adelphia, based in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in June 2002 after the discovery of an
accounting fraud at the company. Adelphia founder  John Rigas  was
convicted of fraud in 2004 and sentenced to 15 years in prison.
He is free during his appeal.  
 The bankruptcy case is In re Adelphia Communications Corp.,
02-41729,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net  and;
David Glovin in New York federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        