-- Huaneng to Buy InterGen Stake for $1.2 Billion, May Add Teachers' Stake
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-11-26T16:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-17/china-huaneng-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-50-of-intergen-for-1-2-billion.html
China Huaneng Group , the nation’s
biggest electricity producer, agreed to buy a 50 percent
stake in Massachusetts-based power utility  InterGen  for about
$1.2 billion, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The state-owned Chinese company would also assume about $2
billion of debt to acquire the 50 percent interest owned by
India’s  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. , said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the transaction isn’t yet public. The
deal may be announced as soon as Nov. 29, the people said.  Huaneng would gain access to 12 power plants in the U.K.,
Netherlands, Mexico, Australia and the Philippines with what
would be its biggest overseas acquisition in two years. The
Beijing-based utility bought Singapore’s Tuas Power Ltd. for
$3.1 billion in 2008 as China’s government encourages companies
to invest abroad.  GMR Infrastructure, based in Bangalore, bought its share of
InterGen for $1.1 billion from a fund owned by  American
International Group Inc. in 2008.  The rest of InterGen is owned
by Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan.  Huaneng is considering buying the remaining stake from
Ontario Teachers, but no agreement has been reached, the people
said. GMR’s stake would likely fetch a higher price because it
includes the right to manage the business and other powers, one
of the people said.  Huaneng Power International Inc. , the company’s Hong Kong-
traded unit, rose 0.7 percent to HK$4.21. The stock has dropped
4.1 percent this year. GMR Infrastructure fell 5.9 percent to
43.8 rupees in Mumbai.  Power Plants  Corbie Kiernan, a spokeswoman for Burlington,
Massachusetts-based  InterGen , declined to comment. A GMR
official didn’t immediately answer calls to his mobile phone
after normal business hours. A call to Huaneng’s offices in
Beijing after hours wasn’t answered.  Established in 1985, China Huaneng produces more than 10
percent of the country’s electricity, according to the company’s
 website . The utility operates 154 power plants in 27 Chinese
provinces and in Singapore, with a combined installed capacity
of 104.38 gigawatts, or about 12 percent of China’s total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 