-- Mol Predicts Stable 2011 Profitability, Sees Regulatiory Risk, CFO Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-11-17T08:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-17/mol-expects-stable-operating-environment-after-quarterly-loss-molnar-says.html
Mol Nyrt .’s 2011 net income may be
“similar” to this year’s level as domestic regulations risk
hurting profit growth for Hungary’s largest refiner.  “We expect a largely unchanged operating environment in
2011, which means profitability should remain similar,” Mol
Chief Financial Officer  Jozsef Molnar  said in a phone interview
today. “The biggest question is domestic regulation, which is
hard to predict.”  Mol will pay close to 20 billion forint ($96.6 million) in
2010 in an extra tax levied on energy companies by the Hungarian
government. The company has set aside a reserve for this tax
payment, Molnar said.  The Budapest-based company said third-quarter  net profit 
surged to 92.1 billion forint from 12.9 billion forint a year
earlier, surpassing a projection of 89.4 billion forint of seven
analysts in a Bloomberg  survey . Net income was driven by higher
international hydrocarbon production, rising oil prices and a
gain on financial transactions.  Mol’s gas production in Pakistan increased five times in
the first nine months of the year and gas output in Syria and
Croatia surged almost 10-fold, Molnar said.  Operating profit in the exploration and production segment
rose to 81.3 billion forint from 35.1 billion forint in the
period due to higher production volumes in Syria and Croatian
off-shore projects and rising oil prices. Operating income in
the refining and marketing unit rose to 19.9 billion forint from
a loss of 1.7 billion forint, the company said.  “We see third-quarter profit numbers as positive as they
show that the company’s cash generating capability is strong,”
local brokerage Equilor Zrt. said in an e-mailed note today. The
planned sale of Croatian subsidiary  Ina ’s gas unit is an
“uncertainty” looking ahead, according to the note.  Mol is currently in talks with the Croatian government on
the takeover of the unprofitable gas unit, Molnar said. The
government has earlier committed to a Dec. 1 deadline to
finalize the deal.  Mol  shares  have gained 17 percent this year, the third-best
performance in the 12-member benchmark  BUX index .  Mol will maintain its financial stability in 2011 and the
company won’t face liquidity or financing risks, Molnar said.  “It’s too early to say anything about dividend payment
plans, the board hasn’t yet discussed it,” he said.  Mol is “unlikely” to unveil its new strategic plan in
2010 as the company has yet to fully assess its financial
“limits,” Molnar said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  