-- Currency Management Loses Out to the Market: Alexandre Marinis
-- Alexandre Marinis
-- 2009-12-07T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-06/currency-management-loses-out-to-the-market-alexandre-marinis.html

          
          
             In economics, as in other endeavors,
too much of a good thing can be dangerous.  
 A positive growth outlook, vast natural resources,
developed capital markets and attractive interest rates have
induced  foreign capital  to flood into Brazil. That, in turn, has
caused the local currency to soar.  
 Brazil isn’t alone. Overvalued exchange rates will pose a
challenge for many emerging economies. That’s inevitable when
governments worldwide continue to pump liquidity into capital
markets and investors who face near-zero interest rates at home
seek higher returns elsewhere.  
 Nowhere is this more evident than Brazil. Latin America’s
largest economy received a record $59 billion in foreign direct,
equity and fixed-income investments during the first 10 months
of this year, according to the nation’s central bank. The
inflows help explain why the Brazilian real has gained about 34
percent against the U.S. dollar this year, more than all major
currencies Bloomberg tracks.  
 Critics of a strong real once were limited to the directors
of Brazil’s large exporters, especially those hurt by Chinese
competitors. Now their concern has spread to the finance
ministry, the national development bank, the central bank and
the headquarters of the candidates for next year’s presidential
election.  
 There is no consensus on how to deal with the problem.  
 Satisfying China  
 Many forces contributing to a stronger real are beyond the
scope of Brazilian authorities. China’s demand for natural
resources, for example, has made commodity rich nations such as
Brazil, Australia, and Chile the best-performing major
currencies in the world this year. These countries don’t export
many manufactured goods but they do sell a lot of agricultural,
fuel and mining products, according to the  World Trade
Organization.   
 Commodities account for about 60 percent of Brazil’s
exports. Over the next 10 years, as the country grows more
dependent on oil,  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , the federally
controlled oil giant known as Petrobras, will need at least $30
billion in net new foreign money to finance the exploration of
its new deep sea oil reserves, according to estimates by Credit
Suisse analyst  Emerson Leite . As Brazil starts selling oil
abroad, more dollars will flow in, further pressuring the
currency.  
 Until mid-2008, critics of Brazil’s monetary policy argued
that the real was appreciating excessively because foreigners
were converting too many dollars into reais to take advantage of
high local interest rates. That argument fizzled after the
central bank slashed its benchmark  interest rate  to 8.75
percent, from 13.75 percent last year.  
 Equities Attract Foreigners  
 Brazil still has one of the highest real interest rates in
the world, but foreigners now invest about four times more money
in equity than in fixed-income securities. In the first 10
months of the year, foreign investors bought $32 billion in
Brazilian stocks and only $8.1 billion in bonds.  
 Foreign money will continue to pour in next year. Analysts
surveyed by the central bank forecast the economy will grow 5
percent in 2010. That means profits are likely to increase, as
are initial public offerings and corporate debt issuances.  
 Unless the government botches the economy, or abandons the
free-floating currency policy, which seems unlikely, there is
little Brazil itself can do to prevent the real from climbing
further.  President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  introduced a 2
percent tax on foreign purchases of equities and fixed-income
securities on Oct. 19 in a bid to ward off “excess
speculation.” The real lost 2.15 percent the next day, but is
already back to its previous level.  
 Taxing Securities  
 Earlier this month, another tax of 1.5 percent was levied
on the issuance of depositary receipts in international markets
to prevent companies from selling shares abroad rather than
locally. Taxes like these may temporarily help the government
recoup part of its falling tax revenue as growth slowed but they
won’t affect the currency much and markets can always develop
new instruments to bypass them.  
 Nonetheless, Brazilian authorities are studying other ways
to control the real. The Finance Ministry is focusing on
measures to lower the inflow of dollars such as issuing real-
denominated bonds abroad or enabling equity investors to deposit
outside Brazil the dollar guarantees required in futures market
operations. The central bank is considering ways to increase the
demand for dollars locally such as allowing Brazilians to hold
dollar-denominated bank accounts.  
 Yet if the global economy remains as it is, none of these
measures will prevent the real from strengthening. Some of them
may even encourage investors who haven’t done so yet to finally
bring money into the country.  
 Meanwhile Brazil must remember it has a low domestic
savings rate and a spendthrift government, which means the
country will continue to need foreign financing. Any new policy
affecting the exchange rate should keep that in mind and be
easily reversible, a key feature for a nation dependent on the
mood swings of international capital markets.  
 ( Alexandre Marinis , political economist and founding
partner of Mosaico Economia Politica, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Alexandre Marinis in Sao Paulo at 
 amarinis1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        