-- Dismal Scientists Miss the Optimism in Jobs Data: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2009-12-07T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-06/dismal-scientists-miss-the-optimism-in-jobs-data-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             Last week's jobs report shocked just
about everybody with a Ph.D. in economics. On average,
economists expected that the economy would shed more than
100,000 jobs. The actual number was only 11,000, and the
unemployment rate declined, to 10 percent.  
 Economists were almost unanimously incorrect about the
start of the recession, fundamentally clueless about the depth
of the recession, and now it's looking like they will get the
end of the recession wrong, too.  
 Data surprise all the time, of course, but the divergence
between consensus and reality in this case was unusually large.
It calls into question other elements of the consensus view.  
 That view holds that unemployment will continue to worsen
well into next year, perhaps reaching 11 percent, because job
creation typically trails the rest of the recovery. An unabated
decline is seen as so much of a sure thing that both parties
held jobs events last week to discuss policies to address the
looming labor-market nightmare.  
 A look at the history of job creation over the business
cycle suggests that this prevailing view needs to be given a big
fat asterisk.  
 Since 1950, there have been 10 recessions in the U.S., the
most recent one beginning in December 2007 and most likely
ending, given the preponderance of the data, last July.  
 If the recession did end in July, then the November decline
in unemployment began in the fourth month after the recession's
trough. A four-month delay is a negative surprise. In the nine
previous recessions, the average wait from the end of the
recession to the first decline in unemployment was only 2.4
months. So this time it took a little longer.  
 Warped Narrative  
 Why, then, did so many experts expect the lag to last still
longer this time? The biggest reason is the widespread
acceptance of a false narrative regarding the relationship
between jobs and recessions, a narrative warped by the two most
recent recessions before this one.  
 It is true that job creation often lags behind the economic
cycle. While unemployment can blip down in the beginning of a
recovery, the improvement rarely sticks; in seven of the
previous nine recessions, the initial decline was reversed in
subsequent months.  
 In the last two recessions -- July 1990 to March 1991, and
March to November 2001 -- unemployment had a life of its own,
continuing to surge for more than a year after the trough. Those
back-to-back experiences seem to have influenced how experts
viewed what would happen in the current recovery. But the last
two recessions are probably not the best guide. On the way down,
recall, they were so mild that economists had begun to accept
the view that the world had undergone a "Great Moderation."  
 Reason for Optimism  
 A more apt model -- and certainly a more optimistic one --
would be what happened at the ends of recessions in 1975 and
1982. In those cases, the first decline in the unemployment rate
signaled the good news that a sustained jobs recovery had begun.  
 In 1975, the unemployment rate peaked two months after the
end of the recession at 9 percent, and then began a steady
decline that lasted almost five years. In 1982, the unemployment
rate peaked at 10.8 percent one month after the end of the
recession, and plummeted from there at a rate of about 1.5
percentage points per year. Those two recessions are the only
ones since World War II that rival the current one in severity.  
 An explanation for this connection comes from academic work
on why the economy tends to snap back more quickly after a steep
drop.  
 This behavior, first observed by Milton Friedman, is
analogous to that of a string on a guitar. The harder you pluck
the string, the quicker it snaps back.  
 Goodbye, Panic  
 Or think of it in these human terms: Recovery is faster
after a panic, because unlike more gradual forces such as a
decline in manufacturing, panic is 100 percent gone when it
stops.  
 Given the enormous doubts that persist about the health of
the real-estate market, massive government deficits and probable
tax increases, it would be imprudent to count on a rapid jobs
recovery. We have, after all, only a couple of precedents that
rival this recession in severity. Moreover, the unemployment
rate is so high that it would be callous and irresponsible to
reject out of hand policies to accelerate job creation.  
 But if history is a guide, November's good job news
signaled that the worst may be behind us, and the unemployment
rate will improve from here. If the unemployment rate drops
again in December, don't be surprised.  
 (Kevin Hassett, director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona in
the 2008 presidential election. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  
 Click on "Send Comment" in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at   khassett@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        