-- EU May Re-Impose Graphite-Electrode Tariffs on India to Aid SGL
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2009-09-17T14:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-09-17/eu-may-re-impose-graphite-electrode-tariffs-on-india-to-aid-sgl.html

          
          
             The European Union threatened to
renew tariffs as high as 9.4 percent on graphite electrodes from
 India  to help EU producers including  SGL Carbon SE (SGL)  vie with
lower-cost competitors.  
 The EU said it would reconsider letting lapse the duties on
graphite electrodes for electric furnaces, used by steelmakers
including Germany’s  ThyssenKrupp AG. (TKA)  The bloc imposed the trade
protection for five years in 2004 to counter Indian subsidies to
exporters including  HEG Ltd. (HEG)  and below-cost -- or “dumped” --
sales by those companies in Europe.  
 Two reviews “will determine whether the expiry of the
measures would be likely, or unlikely, to lead to a continuation
or recurrence of subsidization and injury” and “of dumping and
injury,” the European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s regulatory
arm in Brussels, said today in the  Official Journal . The duties
were due to expire this week and will now stay in place during
the probes, which can last as long as 15 months.  
 The investigations result from June 18 requests by three EU
producers including Germany’s SGL. These manufacturers claim
that renewing the EU trade protection is justified because
Indian competitors continue to receive  government aid  and to
pose a dumping threat, according to the commission.  
 When imposing the duties in September 2004, the EU set the
anti-subsidy rate at 15.7 percent for all Indian producers of
graphite electrodes for electric furnaces except HEG, which
faced a 7 percent levy, and fixed the anti-dumping rate at zero
for all Indian manufacturers.  
 Last  December , the EU re-weighted the measures for all
Indian companies except HEG, which still faces a 7 percent anti-subsidy duty and a zero anti-dumping rate.  Graphite India Ltd. (GRIL) 
is now subject to a 6.3 percent anti-subsidy duty and a 9.4
percent anti-dumping rate and any other Indian producers face a
7.2 percent anti-subsidy duty and an 8.5 percent anti-dumping
levy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        