-- Presidential Control Freaks Ruin Democracies: Alexandre Marinis
-- Alexandre Marinis
-- 2009-09-18T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-09-17/presidential-control-freaks-ruin-democracies-alexandre-marinis.html

          
          
             Several Latin American leaders have
contracted a potent virus called tyrannous flu. The main symptom
is a painfully tight grip on the levers of power, and it strikes
leftists and right-wingers alike.  
 This isn’t good for the region. If enough politicians get
this disorder, the rest of the world will begin to think of the
continent as a heap of power-crazed tyrants, none of whom merit
investors’ attention, or dollars. That’s pretty much how these
countries appeared 20 years ago.  
 Manuel Zelaya’s  thirst for power cost him the presidency of
Honduras. In June he was dragged out of the presidential palace
in his pajamas in Central America’s first military coup since
the end of the Cold War. A leftist pal of President  Hugo Chavez 
of Venezuela, Zelaya tried to push a referendum to change the
constitution, enabling him to run for re-election in November.  
 The latest victim is Colombia’s president,  Alvaro Uribe .
He’s trying to change the country’s constitution so he can run
for a third consecutive term. A constitutional court is
reviewing the matter.  
 Latin America’s democracies are experiencing what scholars
call hyper-presidentialism -- the dominance of the executive
branch over the legislature and judiciary. It’s an unhealthy
concentration of power that’s achieved by using decrees to
bypass other institutions, weakening political parties and
changing laws to suit a ruler’s needs.  
 The attempt by leaders to concentrate their power is seen
in almost every country in the region.  
 Stop the Presses  
 Whether this process turns a country into one that’s
friendly -- or hostile -- to investors depends on several
issues: the president’s ability to control the government and
political parties; the degree to which the media is intimidated
or silenced; and how long the president remains in office.  
 Taking any one of these steps far enough can undermine a
democracy. Argentina’s president,  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner , recently showed her reverence for democracy by
hammering the press. She sent 200 tax auditors to intimidate the
country’s largest media group after it published articles
accusing her government of corruption.  
 Chavez nailed all three. He abolished term limits, weakened
the judiciary and silenced dozens of Venezuelan radio and
television stations.  
 Born to Run  
 The latest example of presidential excess is in Colombia,
which U.S. investors had favored.  
 In 2004 Uribe successfully persuaded congress to amend the
Colombian constitution to allow him to run for a second
consecutive term. His critics accused him of bribing legislators
with jobs and money for their favorite pork barrel projects.  
 Colombia’s highest court is currently investigating more
than half of the country’s 166 representatives.  
 Earlier this month, a slim majority of Colombia’s lower
house ratified a previous vote by the Senate and approved
holding a national referendum to allow Uribe to run for a third
straight term. The measure must be approved by a constitutional
court. Uribe appointed most of the court’s members, but there’s
no guarantee the president will get his way.  
 Colombian law requires that at least 25 percent of eligible
voters participate in the referendum to validate its result.
Although 58 percent of voters say they intend to fill out a
ballot, according to the latest Invamer Gallup poll, the
government is worried. In 2003 a referendum failed because too
few people voted. To boost the turnout this time, the government
may pad the ballot with other questions such as whether
pedophiles should face lifetime prison sentences or whether
water service should be privatized.  
 Big Tease  
 Uribe, who leans to the right and has a 70 percent approval
rating, hasn’t said whether he’d run in the 2010 election if
voters approve the constitutional change. Many of his supporters
say Uribe is simply buying time to prevent a premature breakup
of his coalition. The Colombian constitution prohibits the
president from supporting office seekers.  
 We will soon find out whether Uribe is just stalling.
Colombia’s constitutional court might take until mid-December to
rule on the referendum, which must be held no later than
February. The presidential election is in May.  
 Uribe is showing some of the symptoms of tyrannous flu.
We’ll see if this is a false positive or the real McCoy.  
 ( Alexandre Marinis , political economist and founding
partner of Mosaico Economia Politica, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Alexandre Marinis in Sao Paulo at 
 amarinis1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez, right, speaks with Honduran President Manuel Zelaya in Caracas, Feb. 2, 2009. Photographer: Thomas Coex/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
