-- Bolivia in Talks With Petroleos, Gazprom on New Gas Investments
-- Matthew Craze
-- 2007-07-16T21:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-16/bolivia-in-talks-with-petroleos-gazprom-on-new-gas-investments.html

          
          
             Bolivia's state-owned company YPFB is
in talks with Venezuela's  Petroleos de Venezuela  and  Russia 's OAO
 Gazprom (GSPBEX)  as it courts investment from other state-run companies to
develop its gas reserves.  
 Petroleos signed an agreement to look for oil and gas in one
of four new exploration blocks in the South American nation,
Guillermo Aruquipa, head of state energy company YPFB, said in an
interview in La Paz. Gazprom is interested in another, he said.  
 An exploration agreement with Petroleos is ``just lacking a
law in congress which allows the transfer of capital,'' Aruquipa
said. ``With Gazprom we are in negotiations'' and a letter of
agreement has been signed, he said.  
 Bolivia President Evo Morales forced oil and natural-gas
producers such as London-based BP Plc and  Repsol-YPF SA (REP)  of Spain
to sign new contracts in May 2006 as he nationalized the energy
industries. Bolivia, which holds South America's second-largest
natural gas reserves after Venezuela, now plans to give state-owned companies preferential access to new gas reserves.  
 Aruquipa said on July 13 several privately owned companies
are expected to sign agreements to increase production and
exploit new gas reserves ``in the next few days.''  
 Bolivia's four exploration blocks have known deposits of oil
and gas, Aruquipa said, adding that geological and seismic
testing has been done. He didn't provide estimated amounts of
fuel expected to be contained in the blocks.  
 If enough investment from state-owned companies isn't
forthcoming, the remaining blocks will be auctioned in an
international tender, he said.  
 Argentina's Shortages  
 One company may develop a deposit in Bolivia that has 4
trillion cubic meters of gas, with a production rate of 8 million
cubic meters a day, which would in part go toward supplying
Argentina with more gas, Aruquipa said.  
 Energy shortages are threatening growth in Argentina, South
America's second-largest economy, as about 900 companies have had
to contend with reduced gas supplies, leading to lower output and
employment cutbacks. Bolivia needs private investors to quadruple
gas supplies to Argentina by 2011.  
 Aruquipa said the government has helped attract interest
from energy companies after it agreed with Argentina to sell it
gas for $5 per million British thermal units, from $1 previously.  
 As part of the contract to increase Argentina's supplies, BP
Plc-led Empresa Petrolera Chaco SA said July 12 it will invest
$270 million in its Bolivian unit to double natural gas
production from 5 million cubic meters a day to 10 million.  
 $5 Billion Infrastructure  
 Argentine state company Enarsa signed a deal with YFPB to
receive 27.7 million cubic meters a day of gas in 2010, a
quadrupling from current supplies of 7.7 million cubic meters a
day.  
 The infrastructure needed to expand gas supplies to
Argentina, including a 1,500-kilometer (932-mile) pipeline, will
cost more than $5 billion to build, according to Carlos Ormachea,
head of energy for Techint SA. Techint holds a controlling stake
in Tenaris SA, the world's biggest supplier of seamless oil and
gas pipes.  
 Luis Vierma, Petroleos de  Venezuela 's vice president for
exploration and production, said June 12 that his company may
explore for oil and natural gas in Bolivia, Vietnam and
Argentina.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Craze in Buenos Aires at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robert Dieterich at 
 rdieterich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        