-- Azoty, BRE, Orlen, PGE, Richter May Move: Central European Stock Preview
-- Monika Rozlal
-- 2010-04-08T07:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-08/azoty-bre-orlen-pge-richter-may-move-central-european-stock-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in central European
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names.
Share prices are from the last close.  
 Poland’s WIG20 Index dropped 0.5 percent, the Czech PX
Index advanced 0.6 percent and Hungary’s BUX Index slid 0.1
percent.  
 Azoty Tarnow SA (ATT PW): Poland won’t extend talks with
PCC SE on the sale of chemical producers Tarnow and ZAK SA
beyond April 12. The negotiations are “difficult” and the
government wants the German bidder to improve its offer, said
Wieslaw Skwarko, chief executive officer of state-owned holding
company Nafta Polska SA. Azoty added 0.3 percent to 18 zloty.  
 BRE Bank SA (BRE PW): The Polish unit of Commerzbank AG was
lowered to “hold” from “buy” at Citigroup Inc. BRE shares
fell 0.7 percent to 273 zloty.  
 Emperia Holding SA (EMP PW): The Polish food and household-
products distributor bought out a 50 percent stake in retailer
Lewiatan Kujawy Sp. z o.o. Emperia shares advanced 1.2 percent
to 76.9 zloty.  
 HMSG SA (HMS PW): The Polish Internet-services provider
will start trading on the Warsaw Stock Exchange’s NewConnect
market for smaller companies.  
 PGE SA (PGE PW): Poland’s largest power utility will build
two gas-fired generation units of 432 MW each at its Dolna Odra
plant by 2015, Chief Financial Officer Wojciech Topolnicki told
reporters in Warsaw. PGE declined 1 percent to 23.06 zloty.  
 PKN Orlen SA (PKN PW): Poland’s largest oil company must
decide by the end of September how to return its Lithuanian unit
to profitability and may make a decision on the unit’s fate
within weeks if the Baltic country’s state-owned railroads don’t
make progress on a pledge to rebuild a rail line, Polish Deputy
Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski told reporters in Warsaw.
Orlen fell 1.9 percent to 38.64 zloty.  
 Richter Gedeon Nyrt. (RICHT HB): Hungary’s biggest
drugmaker was rated “underperform” in new coverage at
Jefferies Group Inc. Richter climbed 2 percent to 44,680 forint.  
 Bank Zachodni WBK SA (BZW PW): Poland’s third-largest bank
by market value and Kredyt Bank SA (KRB PW) were downgraded to
“sell” from “hold” at Citigroup, which cited their recent
share price performance.  
 Separately, Zachodni was lowered to “hold” from “buy”
at UniCredit SpA. Zachodni lost 0.4 percent to 215.7 zloty,
while Kredyt Bank increased 1.4 percent to 14.8 zloty.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        