-- Verizon proxy vote on exec pay too close to call
-- 
-- Thu May 3, 2007 3:57pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/03/businesspro-verizon-compensation-dc-idUSN0331378320070503

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - A shareholder proposal seeking a say 
over executive compensation at Verizon Communications Inc. 
( VZ.N ) won nearly 50 percent of votes on Thursday and the 
company said the vote was too close to call. 

  The proposal called for senior executive compensation 
packages, including that of Chairman and Chief Executive Ivan 
Seidenberg. Some shareholders have complained his package was 
too high compared to their returns.  Verizon, the No. 2 U.S. phone company, said a preliminary 
vote count "approached 50 percent" in favor of the proposal and 
a final result would be announced in the next few weeks.  Other shareholder proposals including those calling for an 
elimination of stock options, shareholder approval of future 
severance agreements, and disclosure of consultant 
compensation, were voted down.  Verizon shares have risen over 25 percent in the past year, 
but they are down around 41 percent from their 1999 peak of  $69.50.  Seidenberg's 2006 total compensation was over $20 million, 
according to an SEC filing.  Bill Jones, president of the Association of Bell Tel 
Retirees, which had supported the proposal, said he viewed the 
vote favorably regardless of the final result.  "Most of our proposals, whether they win or lose, promote 
change. They always move, maybe not completely, but in the 
direction that the proposal is aiming at. I suspect we've got a 
good chance on this one," he told Reuters over the phone.  The company said that even if the proxy were passed, it 
would not be binding. But Seidenberg said he would take the 
proposal into consideration, the company said.  Verizon shares rose 4.09 percent to $41.22 on Thursday, 
after quarterly results from Cablevision Systems Corp. ( CVC.N ) 
showed it was losing customers to the phone company's new FiOS 
video and Internet service.