-- Cablevision investors say bid undervalues assets
-- By  Megan Davies  and  Yinka Adegoke
-- Thu May 3, 2007 3:14pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/03/businesspro-cablevision-gabelli-dc-idUSN0321582520070503

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Cablevision Systems Corp.'s ( CVC.N ) 
assets are worth much more than the $10.6 billion takeover 
offer the company has agreed to, two fund managers said on 
Thursday. 

  The New York-area cable operator and entertainment group 
agreed on Wednesday to be taken private in a $36.26-a-share bid 
from the Dolan family, which owns 20 percent of the company's 
common stock.  Fund manager Mario Gabelli said the offer undervalues 
Cablevision's assets by $15 a share, or more than $4 billion.  That would mean he values the assets at more than $51 a 
share, or about $15 billion.  John Linehan, portfolio manager at T Rowe Price Value Fund, 
also said the assets are worth more than $50 a share.  Cablevision shares were up 5 cents at $35.95 in afternoon 
trade on the New York Stock Exchange.  Gabelli heads Gamco Investors Inc. ( GBL.N ), which is a 
significant shareholder in Cablevision. He told Reuters he was 
examining all alternatives and had not yet decided how to vote 
on the takeover deal.  He declined to comment on what offer price he would be 
happy accepting. But he said that if the Dolans sold 
Cablevision to a third party, "our clients would get north of 
$45" a share.  He said the clients his fund manages money for own about 20 
million Cablevision shares, or about 7 percent of the company's 
stock.  Gabelli said Cablevision's cable assets alone are worth 
"the entire value that the Dolans are putting on the table."  The extra value he points to includes the company's other 
assets, such as entertainment center Madison Square Garden and 
surrounding real estate, plus the Cablevision sports networks.  Cablevision owns Madison Square Garden and its pro sports 
teams, the New York Knicks (basketball) and Rangers (ice 
hockey). The company also operates New York's famed Radio City 
Music Hall and the Beacon Theater, and owns and operates the 
Clearview Cinemas movie theater chain.  "The shareholders are leaving a lot on the table," Gabelli 
said, commenting on the Dolan offer.  Linehan said, "We're not happy with the bid in the sense 
that I don't think it's reflective of the underlying asset 
value of the company."  "In the past I've said I was tired of management trying to 
steal companies from underneath our noses, and I think that 
comment applies in this situation," he added.  T Rowe Price owns more than 2 million Cablevision shares.