-- FACTBOX: Buffett on succession plans, acquisitions
-- 
-- Thu May 3, 2007 5:22pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/03/us-berkshire-criteria-factbox-idUSN0323413520070503

 

 OMAHA, Nebraska  (Reuters) - Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the 
insurance and investment company run by 
Warren Buffett, has been preparing succession plans for when 
the 76-year-old billionaire steps down. 

 Meanwhile, it continues to hunt for acquisitions, 
preferably large ones. Berkshire's 2006 purchases included 
utility PacifiCorp, press release distributor Business Wire, 
apparel maker Russell Corp. and Israel's Iscar Metalworking 
Cos. The following information about Buffett's succession plans 
and Berkshire's acquisition strategy is drawn from the 
company's 2006 annual report: 
BUFFETT ON HIS POTENTIAL SUCCESSORS: "Berkshire has three outstanding candidates to replace me 
as CEO and (the) Board knows exactly who should take over if I 
should die tonight. Each of the three is much younger than I. 
The directors believe it's important that my successor have the 
prospect of a long tenure. "Frankly, we are not as well-prepared on the investment 
side of our business.... I intend to hire a younger man or 
woman with the potential to manage a very large portfolio, who 
we hope will succeed me as Berkshire's chief investment officer 
when the need for someone to do that arises. As part of the 
selection process, we may in fact take on several candidates. "There is far more to successful long-term investing than 
brains and performance that has recently been good. (We) need 
someone genetically programmed to recognize and avoid serious 
risks, including those never before encountered ... Temperament 
is also important. (Finally, we need) to be sure we can retain 
our choice, even though he or she could leave and make much 
more money elsewhere. "The good news: At 76, I feel terrific and, according to 
all measurable indicators, am in excellent health. It's amazing 
what Cherry Coke and hamburgers will do for a fellow." 
ACQUISITION CRITERIA: "We are eager to hear from principals or their 
representatives about businesses that meet all of the following 
criteria:     (1) Large purchases (at least $75 million of pretax 
earnings unless the business will fit into one of our existing 
units),     (2) Demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
projections are of no interest to us, nor are 'turnaround' 
situations),     (3) Businesses earning good returns on equity while 
employing little or no debt,     (4) Management in place (we can't supply it),     (5) Simple businesses (if there's lots of technology, 
we won't understand it),     (6) An offering price (we don't want to waste our time 
or that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, about a 
transaction when price is unknown). "The larger the company, the greater will be our interest: 
We would like to make an acquisition in the $5-20 billion range 
.... We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers .... We prefer 
to buy for cash, but will consider issuing stock when we 
receive as much in intrinsic business value as we give."
 For a related article about the annual meeting, please click 
within the brackets. ID:nN03362041