-- Diageo Sell-Off Brings Deep Discounts for Bordeaux: Elin McCoy
-- Elin McCoy
-- 2010-03-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-15/diageo-sell-off-brings-deep-discounts-for-bordeaux-elin-mccoy.html

          
          
             “What’s terrifying,” said John
Kolasa, managing director of Bordeaux chateau Rauzan-Segla, “is
what will happen to Bordeaux wines in America now that Diageo
has bowed out.”  
 I was sipping his silky, charming 2007, one of the best
wines from this lackluster vintage poured at the annual  Union
des Grands Crus  tasting in New York, which never includes the
first growths.  
 So far 2010 is awash in discounted Bordeaux and the mostly
middle-rung ‘07s promise more. That’s because the biggest U.S.
importer of Bordeaux wines,  Diageo Chateau & Estate Wines , a
unit of British drinks giant  Diageo Plc , announced last year
that it was getting out of the Bordeaux business in the U.S. --
and then started selling off its vast inventory in October.  
 Clyde Beffa Jr., owner of Bay Area  K & L Wines  and one of
several retailers offered stock, said Chateau & Estate’s list
included approximately $125 million of top Bordeaux. Diageo
Director of Communications Maire Griffin declined to provide
numbers.  
 For the past four decades, Chateau & Estate dominated the
U.S. Bordeaux business, purchasing thousands of cases of the
region’s top names as futures every year. Its large inventory of
past vintages made it a one-stop shop for retailers and
restaurateurs looking for Bordeaux. Diageo will continue to sell
Bordeaux outside the U.S. through its London-based unit
 Justerini & Brooks .  
 “This is the end of a very nice story for Bordeaux,”
Emmanuel Cruse, whose family owns  Chateau d’Issan , said in a
phone interview. “The national system is dead.”  
 Buyers’ Bonanza  
 For wine lovers, it’s good news.  
 “Bordeaux will get cheaper,” said negociant Ivanhoe
Johnston, with whom I chatted over a spit bucket at the tasting.  
 Last fall Chateau & Estate and its distributors sent
spreadsheets listing recent and older Bordeaux vintages to key
U.S. players, such as Beffa and  Chris Adams , president of New
York’s  Sherry-Lehmann . Beffa said he scooped up wines at 40
percent to 60 percent off wholesale. He’s already out of 2006
Chateau Trotanoy, which he sold at half off.  
 Sherry-Lehmann is selling bottles of some 2006s for 10
percent to 15 percent less than they cost as futures 2 1/2 years
ago, Adams said. The 2005 Chateau Greysac, which was an
exclusive with Chateau & Estate, can now be had in some shops
for as little as $12.  
 ‘Sliced and Diced’  
 “No one had the means to take on all the inventory,”
 Robert Wilmers , owner of Chateau Haut-Bailly and chief executive
officer of  M & T Bank Corp. , told me at a Wine Media Guild lunch
before the tasting. “It was sliced and diced.”  
 In the past few months two Bordeaux negociant firms have
stepped in to fill the void, snapping up the best Chateau and
Estates stocks at very attractive prices.  
 “We bought mainly 2005 and older vintages,” said David
Milligan, president of Joanne USA, the New York office of the
Bordeaux negociant, by phone.  
 Compagnie Medocaine, a unit of  AXA  Millesimes, which also
owns several top chateaux, has teamed up with New York fine-wine
importer Frederick Wildman, and started selling on March 1.
Negociant Diva Bordeaux will open a New York office in May,
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pierre Rousseau said in a phone
call.  
 “Nature hates a vacuum,” said Laurent Ehrmann, general
manager of negociant  Barriere Freres . “It will be filled by
different means.”  
 Unloading 2007s  
 Which brings me back to the unloved 2007s. According to
Diageo’s Griffin, the company begins unloading the rest of their
2007s this month.  
 That may be tough. Sales of high-end wines in restaurants
are flat and everyone agreed the 2007 futures were overpriced
for the quality back in spring 2008.  
 At their best the reds are fruity, early-drinking charmers
that have lift and freshness but lack concentration. For under
$30, look for firm, rich classics like Cantemerle and Poujeaux.
I also liked pricier Beychevelle, Giscours, Haut-Bailly and
especially Rauzan-Segla. Dry whites like Domaine de Chevalier
and sweet Sauternes, like good value Doisy-Daene, are the
stars. Watch for deeper discounts: K & L Bordeaux specialist
Ralph Sands predicts “a bloodbath,” with prices up to 50
percent off.  
 The buyer-friendly market won’t last forever. The consensus
among retailers is that bargains will be gone in six to eight
months. Of course, if the financial markets crash again, all
bets are off.  
 Chateau owners at the UGC tasting were hyping the
reportedly spectacular 2009s (I’ll report on those in detail
next month after attending the annual en primeur tastings). In
the minds of the Bordelaise, this kind of “vintage of the
century” is supposed to translate into very high prices, as it
did for the 2005s. But the global financial climate has changed.  
 Several chateaux told me they expect the Chinese will buy
big during the futures campaign this year.  
 I’ve heard that one before.  
 ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Robert Wilmers and Gabriel Vialard  
                       
                         
                           Elin McCoy/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Robert Wilmers, left, chief executive officer of M&T Bank Corp., and winemaker Gabriel Vialard at a Wine Media Guild lunch in New York. Bordeaux Haut-Bailly has been producing better wines since Wilmers purchased the chateau in 1998. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Robert Wilmers, left, chief executive officer of M&T Bank Corp., and winemaker Gabriel Vialard at a Wine Media Guild lunch in New York. Bordeaux Haut-Bailly has been producing better wines since Wilmers purchased the chateau in 1998. Photographer: Elin McCoy/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       John Kolasa  
                       
                         
                           Elin McCoy/Bloomberg 
                         
                         John Kolasa, general director of Chateau Rauzan-Segla, poses at the Union des Grands Crus tasting at the Marriott Marquis in New York. The annual lunch showcases wines from recently bottled vintages, which will soon be on retail shelves. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     John Kolasa, general director of Chateau Rauzan-Segla, poses at the Union des Grands Crus tasting at the Marriott Marquis in New York. The annual lunch showcases wines from recently bottled vintages, which will soon be on retail shelves. Photographer: Elin McCoy/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
