-- Delphi, Collins & Aikman, New Century: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2007-05-08T13:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-08/delphi-collins-aikman-new-century-bankruptcy-update2-.html

          
          
             Delphi Corp. , the world's largest auto
parts maker, said yesterday that it lost $533 million in the
first quarter, including a $355 million loss from operations.  
 The company used $411 million in cash on operations during
the quarter, including $217 million for ``special attrition
payments'' to employees. The company also recorded $39 million in
``reorganization items.''  
 During the same quarter last year, Delphi spent only $93
million on operations. Then its operating loss was $232 million
and its net loss was $363 million.  
 The company's filing yesterday with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission also disclosed that it reached an agreement
with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corp. regarding the under-funding of its pension plans.  
 If the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York approves Delphi's
plans, the company will contribute $1.3 billion to its pension
plans while $1.5 billion in pension under-funding liabilities
will be transferred to General Motors Corp.  
 The settlement requires Delphi to file a reorganization plan
by July 31 and emerge from bankruptcy court protection not later
than November 15.  
 The settlement requires Delphi to post $150 million in
letters of credit to secure its pension funding obligations and
to contribute $20 million in return for a waiver of an excise tax
claim by the IRS for funding deficiencies.  
 Delphi, based in Troy, Michigan, filed for Chapter 11
reorganization in October 2005 and in March 2006 asked the
bankruptcy court to reject union contracts and terminate supply
agreements with GM. The rejection motions were put on hold while
the company, GM and the unions negotiate. The union turned down
the latest offer.  
 The case is In re Delphi Corp., 05-44481, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Pleasant Care, Creditors' Committee Seek to Oust Ombudsman  
 Nursing home operator Pleasant Care Corp. and its official
creditors' committee asked a bankruptcy judge to end the
appointment of the patient-care ombudsman for failing to disclose
relationships with a secured creditor and the state of
California.  
 Pleasant Care and the committee also said an ombudsman isn't
necessary. The question will aired in bankruptcy court on May 31.  
 Separately, the U.S. bankruptcy judge in Los Angeles pushed
back until Sept. 21 a hearing on requests by both the U.S.
Trustee and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for
the appointment of a Chapter 11 trustee to take over the
company's 30 nursing homes in California.  
 Pleasant Care filed its Chapter 11 petition on March 20
immediately before secured lender Bridge Healthcare Finance LLC
was scheduled to ask a California state court to appoint a
receiver. Owed $9.7 million, Bridge argued that the company was
``grossly mismanaged'' to the ``detriment of the elderly
residents.''  
 The company has brought in new management to run the homes
during the reorganization. Pleasant listed $20.6 million owing to
its 20 largest unsecured creditors.  
 The case is In re Pleasant Care Corp., 07-12312, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  
 Dana Has Agreement to End Non-Union Retiree Benefits  
 Dana Corp. reached agreement with the official committee
representing non-union retirees to set up a trust fund with
$78.8 million to defray the cost of replacing lost benefits.  
 In return, Dana will be allowed to end retiree benefits on
July 1. Dana will contribute $25 million to the trust initially,
followed by $53.8 million in March 2008. The trust will cover
7,800 retirees.  
 Last month the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York approved a
settlement with the International Association of Machinists
covering workers at two plants in Indiana and Mississippi that
required Dana to make a $2.25 million payment to the workers in
return for ending benefits.  
 Separately, Dana and two unions are attempting to negotiate
contract concessions before a May 31 deadline, when the
bankruptcy judge is scheduled to decide whether the company may
impose lower wages and benefits on members of the United Auto
Workers and the United Steelworkers unions.  
 Toledo, Ohio-based Dana began its Chapter 11 reorganization
in March 2006, listing assets of $7.9 billion and debt totaling
$6.8 billion.  
 The case is In re Dana Corp., 06-10354, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Sea Containers Pays $14 Million to Retain Head Office Temporarily  
 Sea Containers Ltd., a lessor of cargo containers and
operator of ferries, agreed to pay $14 million to the landlord of
its London offices to retain a portion of its offices in the
building until 2011.  
 Sea Containers is wrestling with the cost and inconvenience
imposed by changes regarding real estate leases that the U.S.
Congress wrote into bankruptcy law in 2005, complicated by the
difficulty of moving an ``outdated'' mainframe computer.  
 Previously, companies could put off deciding whether to
affirm or throw out real estate leases until the end of
reorganization. Since the law was changed in October 2005, that
decision must be made within seven months of filing Chapter 11,
and the deadline can't be extended.  
 Sea Containers faced a May 13 deadline to terminate the
lease at its London headquarters or sign up for the final four
years of the lease, which runs through 2011.  
 To avoid paying more than $7 million a year under the lease
for the remaining term, Sea Containers negotiated the settlement
with the landlord. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Delaware could
approve the agreement as soon as today.  
 Sea Containers agreed to pay the landlord almost $14 million
in cash and terminate the existing lease. In return, the company
can remain in the office until June 30, and then lease part of
the building until the end of 2007 and another part through 2011.  
 The Sea Containers reorganization, begun in October, was one
of the three largest Chapter 11 filings of 2006. The company
filed to reorganize after losing a license from the British
government to operate a passenger train from London to Scotland.  
 The petition listed assets of $1.7 billion and debt totaling
$1.6 billion. Sea Containers has more than 100 subsidiaries that
aren't in bankruptcy proceedings.  
 The company is incorporated in Bermuda. Most of its
operations are in the U.K.  
 The case is In re Sea Containers Ltd., 06-11156, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Northwest Airlines' Plan Draws 22 Objections From Creditors  
 Creditors of Northwest Airlines Corp., the fifth-biggest
U.S. airline, filed 22 objections to its Chapter 11 plan, which
will come before the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York for
approval at a hearing beginning May 16.  
 Most of the objections filed yesterday were technical in
nature and may be settled before the confirmation hearing by
making clarifications in the plan or the order approving it.  
 Three unions filed objections to the plan based on the $382
million in new stock being given to 400 top company managers.  
 The flight attendants' union said the management bonuses
were ``patently outrageous.'' Ground workers objected to the
executives' ``huge financial reward,'' while the pilots' union
called the stock awards ``outrageous.''  
 Owl Creek Asset Management LP, calling itself both a
shareholder and a ``substantial creditor,'' filed an objection on
its own and not as a member of the ad hoc shareholders' committee
that had been active earlier until the U.S. bankruptcy judge in
New York required the hedge funds making up the committee to
disclose their trading in stock and claims.  
 In addition to contending that Northwest has undervalued the
reorganized airline, Owl Creek argued that the plan improperly
combines the assets of Northwest and affiliates rather than
treating each company separately. Owl Creek said substantive
consolidation ``strips'' away the value of guarantees that one
affiliate granted another.  
 The ad hoc shareholders' committee filed an objection
contending that the plan overpays unsecured creditors and must be
modified to direct the excess to shareholders after unsecured
claims are paid in full. The committee also contended that the
plan improperly gives unsecured claims to workers in return for
cutting back their wages and benefits.  
 Separately, Northwest said in a statement yesterday that it
will list its new stock on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol NWA when it emerges from reorganization. Northwest has
been trading over the counter under the symbol NWACQ.  
 If Northwest's Chapter 11 plan is approved, existing stock
will be extinguished. Creditors of the Eagan, Minnesota-based
airline will get new stock in satisfaction of their claims.  
 The case is In re Northwest Airlines Corp., 05-17930, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Collins & Aikman to Have Examiner Review Professionals' Fees  
 Collins & Aikman Corp.  will have an examiner look into the
amount of professional fees being paid in the auto parts maker's
reorganization, as the result of a decision published yesterday
by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit.  
 The U.S. Trustee and Third Avenue Value Fund, the largest
unsecured creditor, both asked the bankruptcy judge in March to
have an examiner investigate whether professionals were spending
too much time in a case that had turned into a liquidation. The
agent for the pre-Chapter 11 secured lenders also supported the
appointment of an examiner.  
 Bankruptcy Judge  Steve Rhodes  said that a fee examiner was
``necessary and appropriate'' given the ``magnitude of the fees
in this case and the importance of the questions.''  
 The judge qualified his ruling by telling the examiner
wouldn't ``conduct a line-by-line investigation of each fee
application.''  
 In a March 27 ruling, Rhodes held back 20 percent of
professionals' fees in ``light of the Court's pending
consideration of the appointment of a fee examiner.''  
 Third Avenue, based in New York and the holder of $250
million in claims, was chairman of the creditors' committee until
its resignation last year. Third Avenue sought a fee examiner
when professional expenses exceeded $100 million.  
 The confirmation hearing for approval of the plan calling
for a liquidation of the businesses is scheduled for June 5.  
 Collins & Aikman, based in Southfield, Michigan, began
reorganization in May 2005 with 23,000 employees at 80 plants and
revenue of $4 billion a year. Initially, the company was on a
dual track calling either for reorganizing or selling. The judge
said yesterday, ``all attempts at a standalone reorganization
plan have failed.''  
 The company makes auto instrument panels, doors and trim
used in 90 percent of the autos sold in the U.S.  
 The case is In re Collins & Aikman, 05-55927, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  
 New Century Financial Authorized to Borrow $100 Million  
 New Century Financial Corp. , the subprime lender in the
midst of selling its assets, was authorized yesterday to borrow
$100 million in so-called debtor-in-possession financing to pay
for the liquidation.  
 Yesterday New Century won approval to sell a pool of
mortgages for $58 million, or 30 percent of face value.
Separately, May 18 is the deadline for potential buyers willing
to compete against a $139 million offer from Carrington Capital
Management LLC for New Century's servicing business.  
 The sale of the loan origination business hasn't been as
successful. New Century decided to shut the unit down last week
after failing to find a buyer. Instead of selling the operation
as a going concern, New Century said last week that it will
auction the software and systems that supported the loan
origination platform.  
 Separately, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,
Delaware, turned down a request by five employees to appoint an
official committee to represent 570 active or former workers who
claim to be owed $40 million under New Century's deferred-
compensation plan and executive-retirement and savings plans.  
 The employees contended that the deferred-compensation plans
are fully funded with $40 million held by New Century in a
``segregated account.'' The judge said the unsecured creditors'
committee could adequately protect their interests.  
 Also yesterday, the judge allowed New Century to establish a
program offering $3.2 million in bonuses to 116 executives and
managers to keep them on throughout the liquidation.  
 One of six subprime lenders in bankruptcy protection,
Irvine, California-based New Century was the country's second-
largest subprime lender, having been responsible for $60 billion
in home loans in 2006 and generating $220 billion since the
company's inception.  
 The case is In re New Century TRS Holdings Inc., 07-10416,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Kara Homes Plans to Sell 27 More Properties at Auction  
 Kara Homes Inc., the New Jersey home builder attempting to
emerge from reorganization, has decided to auction 27 more
residential properties.  
 At a May 14 hearing, Kara will ask a U.S. Bankruptcy Court
judge in Trenton, New Jersey, to approve procedures for selling
26 lots in the Cottage Gate development and one lot in Freehold,
New Jersey.  
 The Cottage Gate project has $3.4 million in mortgages and
mechanics' liens. Seven homes are under contract while 19 are
unsold.  
 The lot in Freehold is subject to a $642,000 bank lien.  
 Kara's reorganization plan, sponsored by the debtor-in-
possession lender Plainfield Specialty Holdings II Inc., calls
for retaining and building 20 of Kara's 33 projects, with
assistance from $98 million in financing.  
 Creditors of each of the 33 affiliates will be treated
separately under the reorganization plan. The disclosure
statement, schedule for a May 24 approval hearing, said some of
the affiliates will generate no recovery for creditors. The
disclosure statement must be sanctioned by the bankruptcy court
before creditors may vote on the Chapter 11 plan.  
 East Brunswick, New Jersey-based Kara filed its Chapter 11
petition in October, listing assets of $350 million and debt of
$297 million.  
 The case is In re Kara Homes Inc., 06-19626, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  
 Shareholders Ask for Delay in Allied Holdings Confirmation  
 Allied Holdings Inc. , the country's largest new car hauler,
reported yesterday to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Atlanta that
unsecured creditors voted to support the reorganization that
comes up for approval at a May 9 confirmation hearing.  
 Before approval is won, Allied must overcome opposition from
two shareholders, Virtus Capital LP and Hawk Opportunity Fund LP,
which previously filed an objection contending that Allied's
stock shouldn't be eliminated.  
 Virtus and Hawk filed an emergency motion May 7 asking the
bankruptcy judge to delay the May 9 confirmation hearing. The
shareholders said that plan proponent Yucaipa Companies LLC
refused to produce books and records on May 5 in response to a
document production request served May 1.  
 The reorganization plan, jointly sponsored by Yucaipa and
the Teamsters union, calls for union workers to take a 15 percent
wage cut if Yucaipa takes control of the board of directors.
Yucaipa owns half of the almost $200 million in unsecured claims
against Allied.  
 Allied's Chapter 11 petition filed in 2005 listed assets of
$132 million and debt of $180 million.  
 The case is In re Allied Holdings Inc., 05-12515, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  
 Civil War Documents Appraised at $2.4 Million to Be Auctioned  
 A trove of 440 Civil War era letters and documents will go
to auction as a result of a lawsuit in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Charleston, South Carolina, that went up to the U.S. Supreme
Court. The documents have been appraised for $2.4 million.  
 The story begins in December 1864 when the union army under
General William Tecumseh Sherman was preparing to attach
Columbia, South Carolina. The governor ordered that state records
be removed from the capital for safekeeping. The documents in
dispute came into the possession of a major general in the
confederate army who was the great-great uncle of Thomas Willcox.  
 Willcox filed an individual Chapter 11 petition in August
2004 after South Carolina obtained a state court order blocking
him from selling the Civil War documents at auction. Willcox sued
the state in bankruptcy court in October 2004, to settle the
question of who owned the documents.  
 Willcox lost in bankruptcy court, but his lawyer won a
reversal on appeal in U.S. District Court in Charleston. The
federal district judge ruled that the letters weren't public
records. The ruling that the documents belonged to Willcox was
sustained in the federal court of appeals. The U.S. Supreme Court
refused to hear the case.  
 Meanwhile, Willcox won the vote of creditors in support of a
Chapter 11 plan approved by the bankruptcy court in a June 2005
confirmation order. The plan allowed Willcox to pay his creditors
when, and if, he won the lawsuit with the state.  
 The letters will be sold at auction in June or July,
according to a story in the Mobile Register.  
 The case is In re Thomas Willcox, 04-9605, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of South Carolina (Charleston).  
 Chapter 11 Reorganization is Beneficial, Study Finds  
 A study published in the June edition of Journal of
Financial Economics found that reorganizing in Chapter 11
``provides net benefits to bankrupt firms.''  
 The authors -- Avner Kalay, Rajeev Singhal and Elizabeth
Tashjian -- based their calculations on a study of 459 companies.
For companies in bankruptcy, they concluded the ``firms reduce
their assets by 21 percent and the number of employees by 23
percent during the bankruptcy, but sales fall only 14 percent.''  
 The authors, from the University of Utah School of Business
and the Tel Aviv University Faculty of Management, concluded that
the ``gains appear to reflect improvements in operational
focus.''  
 Printer-Copier Parts Distributor Katun Downgraded 2 Notches  
 Katun Corp. was downgraded two notches by Standard & Poor's,
which noted the privately held company's ``near-term liquidity
constraints.''  
 The new corporate rating is B- for the Minneapolis,
Minnesota-based distributor of copier and printer parts and
supplies.  
 Quiksilver Downgraded After Warm Winter Hurts Ski Business  
 Standard & Poor's lowered the corporate rating of Quiksilver
Inc. one level, to BB-, after the company, which makes skis and
clothing, announced weaker than expected operating results for
the first quarter.  
 The $400 million in senior unsecured notes maturing in 2015
also fell one level, to B+. S&P said the warm winter depressed
sales in Huntington Beach, California-based Quiksilver's
Rossignol ski business, leading to ``a very weak snow season.''  
 Educate Inc. Downgraded Along With $270 Million Refinancing  
 Standard & Poor's lowered the corporate rating of Educate
Inc., a private tutoring company, one level, to B.  
 The Baltimore-based company is refinancing with a $15
million revolving credit, a $150 million first-lien term loan,
and a $105 million second-lien term loan.  
 S&P gave the second-lien credit a CCC+ rating, indicating a
``negligible (0 percent-25 percent) recovery of principal in the
event of default.'' The first-lien loan and the revolving credit
are both rated B.  
 Operating through franchised Sylvan Learning Centers,
Educate provides tutoring and other educational services for
children from pre-kindergarten through 12th grade.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Patrick Oster  at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        