-- Geithner Says He Is Confident China Will Move to Strengthen Its Currency
-- Peter Cook
-- 2010-04-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-03/geithner-china-will-move-to-a-stronger-yuan.html

          
          
             Treasury Secretary Timothy F.
Geithner expressed confidence China will decide that a stronger
currency is in the country's interest, saying the U.S. is trying
to "maximize the chance that they move quickly" on the yuan.  
 China needs an economy that is driven more by domestic
demand and less by exports to the U.S., Geithner said in an
interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television. His comments follow
President Barack Obama's hour-long conversation with President
Hu Jintao urging Asia's second-largest economy to help balance
global growth.  
 "Our strategy is going to be designed to increase the odds
that China does decide to do what's in their interest, which is
to let their currency start to move up again, and that'll be
part of making sure we have a more healthy global recovery in
place," Geithner said in New York.  
 Hu's decision to visit Washington this month increases the
likelihood his nation will escape being branded a currency
manipulator by the U.S., strategists said. Ties between the two
countries may be mending after a year marked by disagreements
over the yuan's value, U.S. arms sales to Taiwan and Google
Inc.'s decision to pull out of China.  
 "It is probably true that Washington and Beijing have an
agreement: the U.S. will not label China a currency manipulator
and China will make some sort of yuan policy change at or before
the end of the bilateral Strategic and Economic Dialogue in late
May," said Derek Scissors, a Washington-based research fellow
for Asia economic policy at the Heritage Foundation.  
 Currency Report  
 The U.S. Treasury chief declined to say how the U.S.
approach will affect the Obama administration's next foreign-
exchange report to Congress, due April 15. He repeated his view
that China will allow the yuan to rise in support of its own
economic goals.  
 "Their stated policy is they want to move over time to a
more flexible exchange rate," Geithner said in New York. "It's
good for the world that they're going to do that. And I'm
confident they're going to decide it's in their interest to
move."  
 China has kept the yuan pegged at about 6.8 to the dollar
since 2008 as part of efforts to help their economy weather the
global recession. Last month, Chinese executives, in interviews
with Bloomberg News, joined Obama in backing a stronger yuan,
even as Premier Wen Jiabao says the currency isn't undervalued.  
 Chinese CEOs  
 Yang Yuanqing, chief executive officer of Beijing-based
computer maker Lenovo Group Ltd., said gains would boost
consumers' purchasing power. Qin Xiao, chairman of China
Merchants Bank Co., said an end to the yuan's 20-month peg to
the dollar would let lenders set market-based interest rates.
Chen Daifu, chairman of Hunan Lengshuijiang Iron & Steel Group
Co., said a stronger currency would cut import costs.  
 Geithner said the Obama administration wants to make sure
U.S. companies have a "level playing field" as part of its
strategy for dealing with China and assuaging concerns that the
currency peg provides an unfair advantage. The U.S. and China
share common national security interests in Iran and North
Korea, as well as a shared commitment to the economic
rebalancing effort driven by the Group of 20 nations, he said.  
 "What we want to do is make sure China is growing, they're
buying more from America, more of their growth comes from
domestic consumption, less from exports, and that U.S. firms are
able to compete," he said.  
 Investors' Bets  
 Yuan forwards posted their biggest weekly gain in almost
three months on mounting speculation China will loosen its grip
on the currency after data showed an economic recovery is
gathering pace. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards advanced
0.2 percent to 6.6491 per dollar as of 5:30 p.m. yesterday in
Hong Kong, reflecting bets the currency will strengthen 2.7
percent from the spot rate of 6.8256, according to Bloomberg
data.  
 "The latest development should make it more likely for
Beijing to start moving away from the renminbi's current de
facto peg within the next few months, if not weeks," Qu
Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong
Kong, wrote in a report. "Since China is growing much faster
than most of its trading partners, keeping the de facto peg for
too long will only invite more protectionism."  
 White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs, speaking in
Washington yesterday, said no formal decision has been made
about whether to delay the Treasury Department's biannual
currency report. The Treasury hasn't labeled any country a
currency manipulator since 1994.  
 Hu's Visit  
 "You've heard the president say both publicly as well as
to Chinese leaders that their currency has to be market-based,"
Gibbs said. Hu's visit to Washington this month does not have
any effect on the currency decision, Gibbs said.  
 "We're obviously pleased that he is attending something
that the president believes is so vitally important to our
national security and to international security," Gibbs said.  
 Any delay in the report would not be rare given Democratic
and Republican Treasury departments historically have released
it at their convenience. In January 1999, President Bill
Clinton's Treasury even published a compendium of those that had
been due in 1997 and 1998 and President George W. Bush's
administration also repeatedly missed the deadline.  
 China's central bank said this week that asset bubbles are
emerging in parts of the world and in certain industries that
may burst unless supported by real economic recovery. Chinese
growth in the fourth quarter reached 10.7 percent from the same
time the prior year.  
 PBOC's View  
 Rapid asset-price increases in major markets since 2009
have been pushed by "ultra-loose" monetary policies by
governments around the world and "don't mean real economies
have recovered or will recover strongly," the People's Bank of
China said in a report posted on its Web site yesterday.  
 China pegged the yuan at about 8.3 per dollar from 1995
until July 2005, when the government shifted policy and allowed
some fluctuation by managing its exchange rate against an
undisclosed basket of currencies. After a 21 percent gain that
hurt its exporters, China in July 2008 began restraining the
yuan's value.  
 If China doesn't change tack it may face broader pressure
to do so after French President Nicolas Sarkozy and U.K. Prime
Minister Gordon Brown this week joined Obama in saying the G-20
should take currencies into account in efforts to deliver
balanced global growth. G-20 finance ministers and central
bankers are also scheduled to meet in Washington this month
before a June summit of leaders in Toronto.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Cook in New York at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 2 (Bloomberg) -- Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner speaks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Geithner said the U.S. economy is showing signs of entering a period of sustainable growth as companies begin to hire. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
