-- Four Trends for the 'Tens
-- Rosabeth Moss Kanter
-- 2010-01-11T23:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-11/four-trends-for-the-tens.html

          
          
             Farewell and good riddance to the Decade of the Zeroes, when many people felt reduced to nothingness after two big economic bubbles burst. Welcome to the 2010s, a chance for a fresh start — sort of. The year opens with four trends that gained momentum in the past decade. 

 Green goes mainstream 
The  Copenhagen semi-accord  reached in December states aspirations without accountability, always a combination that puts the third A of action in jeopardy. But higher environmental standards seem inevitable regardless of how slowly sovereign turf-protectors change laws. Companies and venture capitalists alike now have a stake in building green markets.  

 After being comedy fodder for earth-loving tree-hugging when he was actually powerful as U.S. Vice President, Al Gore won an Academy Award in 2007 for a  documentary  on climate change that, among other things, showed him as a lonely figure rolling his own suitcase through airports. By then, Gore was hardly lonely, as his subsequent  Nobel Peace Prize  showed. He looks like a prophet who might get rich on early green investments. The best book title for this trend:  Green Is Gold  (from Yale professor  Daniel Esty ). 

 Even if post-recession consumers return to energy-wasting habits, green is on the scene. Governments will spend to save energy costs. Every industry will have green badges of honor, akin to  LEED certification  for buildings. Disclosures of carbon footprints will grow in retailing, led by  Wal-Mart , and ripple through the supply chain. Restaurants promoting locally sourced,  organic slow food  will raise questions about the rest, especially with  food security  a major issue.  Public health professionals will join with environmentalists to seek behavior change. Green as a synonym for goodness will be attached to previously unrelated products and causes. 

 Emerging nations as competitors 
The directions to look are East — Far East — and South. Developing countries that were once seen as growth markets for products and services from developed countries are now competitors in North American and European home markets and owners of treasured icons, such as Jaguar's new parent, India's Tata Motors. Emerging countries might not be Superpowers yet, with the exception of China, but they are breeding Supercorporations able to innovate and dominate markets globally —  Lenovo  and  Acer  in PCs,  Infosys  and  Wipro  in IT systems,  South Africa Brewing  (SAB) in beer. The Brazilian financial company Banco Real, now Santander Brasil, went public in October with the  largest I.P.O. on a U.S. exchange in 18 months . 

 Of course, in the 1980s, Japan invaded America and Europe, economically-speaking, before suffering a  financial crisis  which made its companies and country seem more benign than fast-growing China. And just because a company or country has money doesn't mean that they have strategic sense, as  Dubai World 's problems show. Still, bumpy as the ride will be over the rocky hills of a supposedly flat world, it will be smart to emulate the Oakland, California, tri-lingual primary school that teaches in English, Spanish, and Mandarin. 

 Government power 
The secular trend right up to the turn of the century was a downsized public sector in most countries of the world. The post-911 growth in government seemed an anomaly of the war on terrorism; e.g., the reverse privatization in the U.S. as the federal government  insourced airport security  that had previously been outsourced to private firms. National security concerns will keep government big; financial security concerns keep power in the exchequer. Bailouts, nationalization, and stimulus packages make governments the go-to guys — the most-valued customers, despite red tape. 

 Central governments have the power; state or province and local governments hold operational purse strings, as funds are disbursed to projects chosen and managed regionally or locally. Mayors will be your new best friends. They will join other public sector officials in wanting you to create local jobs. 

 Macro over micro 
If you're thinking about writing a book about the management practices of African tribal chiefs or the leadership wisdom of English poets, you might want to consider another option. There's a glut of  management tips in free Twitter-ish sound bites . It's still important to execute well, but the field of management will not yield many new insights as big as strategy, innovation, or quality. Breakthroughs will come from looking not inward but across, from combining disciplines to find better connections. Success will come from a focus on impact, not process. 

 The knowledge frontier is to rethink and reinvent the big systems that set the context for action — the financial system and its regulators; health care financing and delivery; global business standards and trade agreements. The only "new" thing about managing your business or not-for-profit differently is to keep eyes on that wider context. 

 Surprises are the new normal. In a world of volatility, every trend can quickly give rise to counter-trends. But these four should stick for a while. 

 So raise a glass to toast the 2010s — in Mandarin, Hindi, Spanish, and Portuguese. I hope that the only bubbles that burst will be the ones in your sparkling wine — preferably organic, locally-sourced, domestic-job-creating, and suitable for drinking with the Mayor. 
          
          


  


        