-- Google's Phone Threatens Motorola: Rich Jaroslovsky (Update1)
-- Rich Jaroslovsky
-- 2010-01-11T22:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-11/google-s-phone-threatens-motorola-rich-jaroslovsky-update1-.html

          
          
             It's a nice phone. OK, it's a very
nice phone.  
 But nothing about the new Nexus One smartphone from Google
Inc. comes close to warranting the mass hysteria that attended
its unveiling last week.  
 The Nexus One isn't revolutionary. Nor is it an iPhone
killer -- a phrase we should banish to the Tech Writers' Hall of
Cliches. It is, instead, a sleek phone with some advancements in
display and processor technology that will surely be matched and
then overtaken by others in the months ahead.  
 True, the rapidly evolving competition among Google, Apple
Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Research in Motion Ltd. is fascinating
to watch. And Google's plunge into e-tailing -- the Nexus One
can only be bought directly from the company over the Web -- has
the potential to shake up how phones are sold.  
 Me, though, I find it hard to swoon over a business model.  
 The Nexus One, manufactured by Taiwan's HTC Corp. to
Google's specifications, is similar in both size and shape to
the iPhone -- a smidge thinner and lighter, a trifle longer. It
runs a new version of Google's Android operating system that
makes modest tweaks to the software that debuted on Motorola
Inc.'s Droid two months ago.  
 Thing of Beauty  
 If anyone ought to feel threatened by the Nexus One, it's
Motorola, which committed to using Android for all its
smartphones and now has powerful new competition from its own
partner. Just to cite one area, the Droid's screen used to be my
favorite: super-bright, with higher resolution than the iPhone.
But the Nexus One uses new technology that provides an even
richer display, with deeper colors and blacker blacks. It's a
thing of beauty.  
 Under the hood, the Nexus One uses a Qualcomm Inc.
processor that's the most powerful ever put in a phone. It also
has enhanced 3-D graphics, expanded speech-to-text features --
you can now dictate your Facebook or Twitter updates rather than
type them -- a replaceable battery and a memory-card slot.  
 At the same time, the Nexus One shares the shortcomings of
previous Android and HTC phones.  
 The number of Android apps trails far behind the iPhone. So
does Android's ability to sync with Microsoft Outlook for e-
mail, calendars and contacts, though it does provide the
capability to view and work with Microsoft Word, Excel and
PowerPoint files through technology from Quickoffice Inc. and
DataViz Inc.'s Documents To Go.  
 Accidental Launches  
 Its app icons, which now whiz onto the desktop instead of
rolling up window shade-style, are too small and close together;
I too often accidentally launch an app when all I'm trying to do
is scroll through them. The included 4 gigabytes of storage is
too small and inflexible, with only 190 megabytes set aside for
apps.  
 You can't pinch your fingers together or move them apart to
zoom in or out on a screen. The home, back, menu and search
buttons below the screen require too much pressure to push, and
the trackball seems superfluous except when it glows to signal a
new call or message.  
 The company's real innovation is in how it's selling the
Nexus One and the other Google-branded phones to follow.  
 Most phones in the U.S. are purchased tied to a specific
carrier, which subsidizes the cost of the handset in return for
your commitment to a service contract. Google is seeking to
separate the handset from the service. You can buy it with a
service plan for $179, or pay $529 and purchase service
separately.  
 T-Mobile  
 At launch, there isn't much of a choice: The only carrier
currently offering a plan is T-Mobile USA, the U.S. mobile-phone
division of Deutsche Telekom AG, which charges $79.99 per month.
In theory, you can also use a SIM card from AT&T Inc., but the
phone wouldn't be able to use AT&T's 3G network for data, only
its older, slower Edge network. Outside the U.S., Google is
shipping the unlocked Nexus One to the U.K., Hong Kong and
Singapore.  
 The choices will multiply over time. This spring will see a
Nexus One that runs on the Verizon Wireless network, which uses
a different technology than AT&T and T-Mobile. Also in the
spring, Vodafone Group Plc is lined up to offer a service plan
for the Nexus One in Europe.  
 Google is responsible for delivering the phone -- the one I
ordered on launch day last week arrived in less than 48 hours --
and will be the first point of contact if anything goes wrong.  
 Weakening the carriers' control and compelling them to
compete with each other may eventually put more power into
consumers' hands -- and, of course, Google's.  
 While all this is interesting, it's hardly earth-
shattering. When Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007, it changed
the entire way people thought about wireless devices, ushering
in the era of the mobile Web.  
 The Nexus One? It's just a very nice phone.  
 (Rich Jaroslovsky is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on "Send Comment" in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in New York at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        