-- U.S. Economy Is Up in the Air With George Clooney: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2010-01-12T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-11/u-s-economy-is-up-in-the-air-with-george-clooney-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             Airport security lines trigger the
same mental process in most Americans. Irritation is the first
stage. You arrive at the front of the line hostile to the whole
enterprise -- the conveyer belt, the company that manufactured
the recalcitrant zipper on your bag, the not-especially-polite
airport workers.  
 This month, after the Christmas Day bomb attempt over
Detroit, you feel resignation: “I can put up with this as long
as the  Transportation Security Administration  prevents another
bomber.” Next, as you pull off your shoes and look up into the
faces of the security guards, you find an important bit of
consolation for the delay: “At least somebody got a job out of
this.”  After you’ve cleared security, comes this final
thought: “But it isn’t a very good job, is it?”  
 The entire experience recedes during the rush to the gate.
Still, like the suitcase at the other end, the security line
experience is worth unpacking. That’s because it recalls what’s
wrong with our economy in general this winter.  
 In airports, talk runs to upgrades. The unsaid part of the
security line is that it is a downgrade in the quality of our
day. Every one of us budgets time. Airport security steals at
least half an hour. That means we have lost minutes where we
could have been doing something at the office or at home.  
 Sure, we may be stroking the iPhone right up to the moment
we have to fit the driver’s license back into the wallet. Still,
we know that, often as not, we are just consoling ourselves
again, this time by pretending to work rather than actually
doing something.  
 Government Intrusions  
 The major new government programs of 2008, 2009 and now
2010 are like those security lines -- irritating intrusions. The
new health-care legislation, for example, seeks to do something
impossible: limit federal outlays even as it sustains service.  
 That kind of impossible promise tends to result in
shortages -- waits of airport-size duration. What the
legislation promises to do is make a hospital more like a bad
airport. The Senate’s proposed surtax on insurers who offer
high-end plans is the equivalent of shutting down the Admiral
Lounge.  
 Then we come to the second stage, the consolation of job
creation. Given the rockiness of the job market, it is somehow
comforting to see those airport security workers in their
uniforms. At least they’re taken care of; that’s the typical
analysis of the responsible person. Since so many of them are
from minority groups or immigrants, we’re glad to see them
establishing themselves in the U.S. Somehow that makes the waste
less bad.  
 Getting Things Done  
 Most of us react similarly at the news of federal stimulus
projects. At least something is being done when  Alachua County,
Florida , which has a poverty rate of 23 percent, gets $105
million in recovery money. The $3 million that went to the Texas
Department of Protective and Regulatory Services for foster care
on April 1, 2009, was likewise reasonable. Who can turn down
kids? Then there are the billions that were poured into banks.
Perhaps that was necessary. In the too-big-to-fail doctrine,
banks are like air-traffic controllers.  
 What about that final stage, the skeptical look back? At
the airport, one thing that bugs us is the arbitrariness of it
all. Who, in August 2001, would have thought that slippers,
Crocs and any other kind of shoe that is easy to take off would
benefit from a geopolitical event? Similarly, few could have
predicted that products we love -- cigarette lighters, pocket
knives, large tubes of toothpaste -- would be damaged by an
economically unrelated phenomenon, the aggression of al-Qaeda.  
 Not Optimal  
 Big new government programs, whether the coming health-care
law or stimulus plans, also create untold number of business
winners and losers. The winners include green consultants who
charge companies for retrofitting their building so they might
win the favor of a moody Environmental Protection Agency. Losers
include those companies whose business plans for a city street
were knocked out when the state or federal government decided to
use stimulus cash to build its own project.  
 In other words, whether it is TSA jobs or stimulus outlay,
what the government does may not be bad. But it is rarely
optimal. Neither a TSA worker nor a stimulus worker is as likely
as a private-sector entrepreneur to come up with and implement
an idea yielding big productivity gains. That is why our growth
these cold months feels unsolid: between the security work and
the stimulus work, we are generating junk gross domestic
product, and promising to generate more.  
 What could make more of our growth more genuine?
Recognizing that defense outlays should be made for defense
alone, and not for the economy’s sake. What the economy needs is
less airport, and less stimulus. Citizens tend to know that the
airportization of America can’t bode well, just as the new
 George Clooney  film in its own way suggests. The country won’t
really be able to get off the ground as long as it is still up
in the air.  
 ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   
          
          


  


        