-- War on Terror Ignores Rule to Know Thy Enemy: Celestine Bohlen
-- Celestine Bohlen
-- 2010-01-12T02:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-11/war-on-terror-ignores-rule-to-know-thy-enemy-celestine-bohlen.html

          
          
             Here we are, eight years into a
global war against al-Qaeda, and we still have trouble
identifying the enemy.  
 We couldn’t keep tabs on the young Nigerian who tried to
blow up the Northwest Airlines plane over Detroit on Dec. 25.
Five days later, a supposed double-agent walked onto a U.S. base
in eastern Afghanistan and blew up seven CIA officers and
contractors and their Jordanian colleague.  
 It was shocking that 23-year-old  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab 
was able to check onto Flight 253 after his father had warned
the CIA about his extremist views. It is even more stunning that
a well-known cyber-jihadist -- a potential hostile, as they’re
called -- could be admitted onto a U.S. outpost in an isolated
region of Afghanistan wearing an explosive vest.  
 This isn’t just a failure to connect the dots: It is about
the inability to penetrate al-Qaeda’s habitats, be it the Web
sites of cyberspace, the wilds of the Afghan-Pakistan border or
Yemen’s backcountry.  
 The CIA officials in Khost must have thought they knew
 Humam Khalil Abu Mulal al-Balawi : it is obvious now they did
not. He was a Jordanian doctor trained in Turkey who, after
being detained briefly in Jordan last year, went to Pakistan,
purportedly to practice medicine.  
 He was also an active blogger, known to al-Qaeda experts
around the world, who posted bloodthirsty screeds to incite and
recruit suicide warriors. His Turkish wife  says  he openly
considered the U.S. to be his enemy.  
 ‘Righteous Martyrs’  
 Balawi, once in Pakistan, gave his Jordanian handlers
“actionable intelligence” that led to strikes by U.S. drones
against Taliban and al-Qaeda leaders, thus proving his bona
fides, according to U.S. officials quoted in a Washington Post
 article . Balawi also convinced them he could lead them to  Ayman al-Zawahiri , deputy to  Osama bin Laden  and the world’s second-
most-wanted man, according to an  article  in the New York Times.  
 All the while, according to a  statement  from al-Qaeda in
Afghanistan, he was drafting a will in which he said his suicide
attack would avenge “righteous martyrs” and named several al-
Qaeda militants killed by U.S. drone attacks.  
 If all this is to be believed, the same man who was
steering U.S. drones -- via his Jordanian contacts --- to al-
Qaeda targets went and killed himself and eight others to avenge
their deaths.  
 There’s no way of knowing what is true or not in this
story. Balawi covered his tracks well, and the CIA won’t reveal
operational secrets. Maybe he did sacrifice some of his
comrades-in-arms, or maybe he gave his Jordanian handlers bad
information.  
 Fatal Mistake  
 One thing is clear: The CIA operatives in Khost, who
included some of the agency’s most veteran al-Qaeda watchers,
trusted someone they shouldn’t have because they didn’t know who
he really was.  
 It was a fatal mistake, which only proves how difficult it
is for Western intelligence services to operate in the maze of
opaque, interlocking relationships between terrorist networks
and local societies.  
 Regions like Khost in Afghanistan,  Waziristan  in Pakistan
and eastern Yemen, to which Abdulmuttalab slipped away to get
his training as a terrorist, are not just remote geographically.
They are virtually autonomous, ruled by local tribes and their
elders, operating according to alliances and feuds that date
back centuries. Sometimes, they cooperate with outsiders, be
they terrorists, foreign armies or local officials, but only on
their own terms.  
 Local Politics  
 Balawi, apparently, had no trouble figuring his way around
the Taliban and jihad groups that operate in the Afghan-Pakistan
border regions. His CIA contacts were clearly lost.  
 Jean-Pierre Filiu, a Paris-based expert on al-Qaeda, said
the problem lay in dismissing Balawi’s hard-line commentary.
“At some level, somebody didn’t take what he was saying
seriously,” Filiu said in an interview. “One should never
think one is more intelligent than the terrorist.”  
 The U.S. intelligence community in Afghanistan is itself to
blame for its own ignorance, according to a recent  report  by a
top U.S. military official. Its author, Major General  Michael T. Flynn , senior military intelligence officer in Afghanistan,
concluded that U.S. intelligence information is “only
marginally relevant to the overall strategy.”  
 Flynn criticizes U.S. agents for sticking to their computer
screens and not going out into the field to talk to local people
-- landowners, power brokers, villagers and aid workers -- who
invariably know more about the enemy than they do.  
 Paraphrasing the famous quote about politics by former U.S.
House Speaker  Thomas “Tip” O’Neill , Flynn writes, “All
counterinsurgency is local.”  
 He quotes an operations officer in the field: “I don’t
want to say we’re clueless, but we are. We’re no more than
fingernail-deep in our understanding of the environment.”  
 This kind of ignorance can be dangerous. It left seven
Americans and their Jordanian collaborator exposed on Dec. 30,
and it leaves the rest of us vulnerable too.  
 ( Celestine Bohlen  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Celestine Bohlen  in Paris at 
 cbohlen1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        