-- Centerfold Senator Is Stud on Economics as Well: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-01-25T02:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-24/centerfold-senator-is-stud-on-economics-as-well-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             Before and since  Scott Brown  locked
up his Senate victory in Massachusetts, Democrats have tried to
portray him as an economically illiterate radical.  
 Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York distributed a
fundraising appeal that called Brown a “far-right tea bagger,”
an accusation that rose to a chorus after his election. Among
serious followers of policy, it didn’t help Brown that he once
posed nude for Cosmopolitan magazine.  
 The special election in Massachusetts sprung on everyone so
quickly that somebody crazy certainly could have slipped through
the cracks. A look at Brown’s platform and economic statements
suggests exactly the opposite.  
 If a nonpartisan, above-reproach economist were assigned to
review the academic literature and design thoughtful and prudent
economic policies consistent with the most persuasive findings
available, he would produce Brown’s platform.  
 Brown’s recipe for economic revival relies on the power of
free enterprise. He  told  the Wall Street Journal’s  Peggy Noonan :
“What made America great? Free markets, free enterprise,
manufacturing, job creation. That’s how we’re gonna do it, not
by enlarging government.”  
 This quote contains two powerful assertions: that free
enterprise made this nation great and that enlarging our
government will undermine our growth. A third key element of
Brown’s political rhetoric has been to attack the ever-rising
government debt as a threat to our economic future.  
 The economic literature overwhelmingly supports these
points.  
 Hungry Government  
 Numerous studies have documented that larger government
relative to gross domestic product leads to significantly
reduced economic growth. One  study  by Harvard University
economist  Robert Barro  concluded that “growth is inversely
related to the share of government consumption in GDP.”  
 More recent literature has found that this holds true even
for U.S. states. It is now widely accepted as an economic
reality -- which makes it all the more puzzling that Obama and
his economic team would push for a larger government when the
economy is already weak.  
 As for the power of free enterprise, the Fraser Institute’s
annual Economic Freedom of the World  report  regularly documents
that competition and entrepreneurship are key drivers of
economic growth.  
 Fine, you might say, but reducing debt in the beginning of
a wobbly recovery would be imprudent. This view assumes that the
reduction would be designed poorly, front-loading the cut in
government spending.  
 Take Your Time  
 It is easy to craft policies that reduce spending gradually
over many years, restoring the budget to something fiscally
sustainable without creating a near-term crater. Economists
 Francesco Giavazzi  of Bocconi University in Milan and Marco
Pagano of the University of Naples Federico II  studied  the
impact of such policies in Denmark and Ireland and found that
fiscal consolidations lead to near-term dramatic improvements in
economic growth. Other studies have confirmed this result in a
range of countries.  
 Brown also  argues , citing  John F. Kennedy  and  Ronald Reagan , that “by cutting taxes we stimulate economic growth and
encourage businesses to add jobs.” He has advocated extending
all of  George W. Bush’s  tax cuts from 2001 and 2003 that are set
to expire this year. He has also said that he supports a 15
percent “across-the-board tax cut,” including corporate and
payroll taxes.  
 Bush’s Targets  
 Here the evidence is mixed. It is impossible to read the
corporate tax literature and not come away with the impression
that a reduction would be quite favorable economically. But the
evidence that the Bush tax cuts were a positive influence is
weak, in part because Bush squandered revenue on economically
questionable targets, such as eliminating the so-called marriage
penalty, rather than on lowering marginal rates. Still, Brown’s
focus on rates suggests that he understands this.  
 There is also a tension between the desire to reduce taxes
and the desire to reduce the deficit. Brown has called mounting
government deficits “immoral,” which means that cutting them
will likely be a high priority for him and that he is unlikely
to compromise on the debt in order to lower taxes. His call for
strict spending limits also suggests debt is his priority -- and
also is in accord with the prevailing literature.  
 A 2008 European Commission  staff review  of successful
fiscal consolidations found that those that relied on spending
cuts worked, while those that relied on tax increases did not.
It’s safe to say that higher marginal tax rates quashed growth.  
 All of this makes a great deal of common sense, appealing
even to voters in the bluest of blue states. That is why Brown
won. It is also why the anti-free-market, economically
illiterate economists and pundits attacking Brown are beside
themselves.  
 ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at   khassett@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        