-- Protecting Consumers Will Undermine Capitalism: Susan Antilla
-- Susan Antilla
-- 2010-01-25T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-24/protecting-consumers-will-undermine-capitalism-susan-antilla.html

          
          
             Flouting the efforts of lobbyists to
shut down his plan for a consumer protection agency, the newly
combative President  Barack Obama  is digging in his heels.
Spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said last week that it’s something  Obama 
“is not willing to give up.”  
 Thus, we open another round in the brawl between Obama and
business groups that claim the bill covering mortgage and
credit-card lenders is a death sentence for small companies,
expensive for consumers, and will “change the way Americans do
business forever.”  
 It’s quite a rant in light of what the  Consumer Financial
Protection Agency Act  actually says. Among its goals, which in
some sections read like a treatise against loan-sharking, are to
truthfully explain costs, benefits and risks of financial
products to consumers and to do it all in plain English. Another
of the act’s seemingly over-the-top provisions: to prohibit
marketing and advertising that is “unfair, deceptive, or
abusive.”  
 We certainly wouldn’t want to put a crimp on deceptive or
abusive marketing, because for one thing it could take a real
bite out of the available scandals for people like me to write
about, and it’s no secret that we media types have been falling
on hard times. As I read through the voluminous objections to
establishing a consumer protection agency, though, I was more
entertained than informed as to what all the fuss is about.  
 There is, for example, the drama set forth by the U.S.
 Chamber of Commerce , whose Web site includes a special
stopthecfpa.com link that would have you believe the proposed
agency would bring the U.S. to the brink of financial disaster.
Again.  
 Scare Tactics  
 “The CFPA would make a bad economy even worse,” the site
says, offering a comprehensive menu of slick, scary
advertisements and business-owner testimonials that leave you
worrying whether you’ve socked away enough bottled water and
canned beans in the basement to survive the economic devastation
that’s sure to result.  
 Particularly bone-chilling is the Chamber television
advertisement called “Make it Worse,” 103 seconds of warnings
about the economic terror that will result if the menacing CFPA
becomes reality. Appropriate Indiana-Jones-confronts-Peruvian-
booby-traps music augments the perilous mood in the background.
The words of anxious small business people scroll across the
screen. “How will the CFPA affect me?”  asks Chamber member
Mona Steck. “Simple: My cabinet shop business will cease to
exist.”  
 I was curious to understand how the proposed agency could
do that, but Steck didn’t return phone calls.  
 Bad for Consumers  
 The Web site of the  American Financial Services
Association , the business lobby for mortgage lenders and credit-
card companies, offers a set of  “talking points” to warn that
“consumers will pay more for financial products and services at
a time when they can least afford it.”  
 The group also notes that 68 percent of Americans think
“we should not give an inexperienced new agency, like the
Consumer Financial Protection Agency, too much power.” The
survey, conducted in July 2009, crafts questions that my college
sociology professor would have defaced with a fat red marker.
Only 18 percent of the sample opposed the idea of the agency in
the first round of neutral questions, but after respondents got
all worked up from considering loaded questions about loss of
access to credit, long-term harm to the economy and higher
taxes, the “opposed” camp soared to 38 percent.  
 Effective Protection  
 The granddaddies of lobbying at the American Banking
Association warn that it’s a mistake to have a separate agency
for consumer protection; instead, they say, consumer protection
should be taken care of by the same regulators who police an
institution’s safety and soundness. Otherwise, a separation of
the functions will result in “less effective consumer
protection and safety and soundness regulation,” the
organization said in an October 2009  white paper .  
 I’m sure the ABA is heartfelt in its worry over the welfare
of consumers, but it still doesn’t offer an altogether
convincing argument. Regulators who oversee safety and soundness
are motivated most of all by the desire to have the institutions
they supervise be profitable. But profits often come in the form
of usury rates and excessive fees. Doesn’t it make sense to let
a separate agency fight the battle for honest products and
practices, lest the “soundness” guys allow compromise in the
name of, well, soundness?  
 Writing the Rules  
 So the fight is on to see whether consumers will get an
agency that looks out only for them.  Elizabeth Warren , the
Harvard professor who originally came up with the idea of a
consumer financial agency, sent a  letter  on Jan. 20 telling
supporters that “the next few weeks will determine whether
families will have to play by rules written by the banks and for
the banks -- rules that let the industry get away with
anything.”  
 The day before,  Ralph Nader  penned a  note  to Connecticut’s
lame duck Senator  Christopher Dodd , who, much to the glee of
business, has reportedly been warming up to the ABA’s idea of
keeping the consumer protection function under the wraps of the
safety and soundness folks.  
 Nader told Dodd that a decision to drop the agency would
“signal to consumers across the land that you, as chair of the
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, have lost touch
with Main Street interests.”  There could be motivation for
Dodd to wean himself away from any populist inclinations. He
will be needing a job soon, and it’s probably a safe guess that
he won’t be pitching for a five-figure gig with some do-good
consumer group.  
 ( Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        