-- Atrium to Raise EU72.1 Million of Equity to Cut Debt
-- Simon Packard
-- 2009-01-14T09:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-01-14/atrium-to-raise-eu72-1-million-of-equity-to-cut-debt-update1-.html

          
          
             Atrium European Real Estate Ltd. (ATRS) ,
 Austria ’s largest developer by market value, scrapped a 300
million-euro ($399 million) rights offering for a share sale to
Citi Property Investors and Gazit-Globe Ltd. that will be a
quarter of the size.  
 The company will raise 72.1 million euros by selling shares
to the two investors, which have already bought 500 million
euros of convertible bonds under a plan to recapitalize the
Jersey-registered company, announced in March 2008.  
 Atrium, previously called Meinl European Land Ltd., will
use the proceeds of the share placement to buy back a nominal
103 million euros of its own debt, which had been acquired in
the market by Gazit.  
 “The transaction avoids undue dilution of the company’s
other shareholders,” Chief Executive Officer Rachel Lavine, who
joined in May in a reorganization of the company, said today in
a statement.  
 Efforts to scale back the company’s development pipeline
have ensured a “significant reduction” in its need for cash,
Atrium said. The company is also looking to sell shopping
centers in central and eastern  Europe  to raise money.  
 The share sale is due to be completed by the end of January
and is a prelude to Atrium switching its shares to the Euronext
exchange in Amsterdam by the start of August.  
 CPI and Gazit’s stake  in the company will rise to just
below 30 percent, above which they would be obliged under
Austrian takeover rules to make an offer to other shareholders.
Under the previous rights offer, CPI and Gazit’s stake would
have risen to more than 37 percent.  
 Atrium shares  advanced 4 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 3.04
euros at 9:49 a.m. in Vienna trading. That lifted the market
value of the company to 659 million euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at   amirabella@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        