-- Estonia Holds Up Gazprom-Backed Pipeline to Germany
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2007-09-20T15:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-20/estonia-holds-up-gazprom-backed-pipeline-to-germany-update2-.html

          
          
             Estonia  rejected a request by an
OAO Gazprom-backed pipeline project to survey the seabed off its
coast, threatening to delay plans to ship Russian gas directly
to Germany.  
 Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip 's government rejected the
request by Nord Stream AG based on Estonia's ``sovereignty'' and
``national interests,'' the Estonian government said in an e-mailed statement today. Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
vowed the project would be completed anyway.  
 The 1,200-kilometer (720-mile) pipeline, overseen by former
German Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder , would run across the Baltic
seabed, which is littered with World War II-era munitions.
 Poland  and the three Baltic countries --Estonia, Latvia and
Lithuania -- oppose it, citing environmental concerns. Denmark,
 Finland  and Sweden have voiced similar concerns.  
 ``Our main position has always been that this pipeline in
the Baltic Sea is not advisable at all,'' Estonian Foreign
Minister Urmas Paet said on Estonian public television today.
``There have never been any disagreements about that. We will
not allow the building of this pipeline in our economic zone.''  
 Nord Stream requested permission to survey the seabed after
Finland proposed moving the pipeline route southward into
Estonia's economic zone.  
 `Active Dialogue'  
 ``The permit is necessary for the survey, and the survey is
necessary to see if this route is better environmentally,''  Nord
Stream  spokeswoman Irina Vasilyeva said by phone from Moscow.  
 ``We're in a very active dialog with all the countries
involved and are sure we'll be able to convince all the
skeptics,'' she said.  
 Finnish Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen said on a visit to
Estonia last week that Finland would allow the pipeline to pass
through its economic zone if Estonia rejects the proposed route.
The two countries define their territorial waters as extending 9
nautical miles from their coastlines. Beyond that, each claims a
3-nautical-mile economic zone.  
 ``I'm sure the Nord Stream pipeline will go ahead,'' Lavrov
said in an interview broadcast on state broadcaster Vesti-24. He
said Estonia's decision should be ``guided not by ideology but
by rational consideration.''  
 Moscow-based Gazprom plans to start construction next year.
Nord Stream, which will have a capacity of 55 billion cubic
meters of gas a year by 2013, is key to Gazprom's strategy of
increasing deliveries to Europe, which already gets a quarter of
its gas from Russia.  
 The pipeline may cost 9 billion euros ($12 billion) to
build, E.ON AG said in May. State-controlled Gazprom owns 51
percent of the project.  Germany 's E.ON and BASF AG split the
rest.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;
Lucian Kim in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Kirkham at   ckirkham@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        