-- Qatar Gets $19 Billion of Loans for Sainsbury Bid
-- Cecile Gutscher
-- 2007-09-20T17:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-20/qatar-gets-19-billion-of-loans-for-sainsbury-bid-update2-.html

          
          
             Qatar lined up 9.6 billion pounds
($19 billion) of loans from three European banks to pay for its
proposed takeover of  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.'s third-biggest
supermarket chain.  
 ABN Amro Holding NV, Credit Suisse Group and  Dresdner
Kleinwort  will provide the financing for Qatari government-backed
Delta (Two) Ltd., according to a joint statement from Sainsbury
and the fund.  
 Delta boosted the amount of equity in its 10.5 billion-pound
bid to 4.85 billion pounds from 4.6 billion pounds first
proposed. Sainsbury's board opposed the earlier bid because of
concerns it would load the company with too much debt.  
 ``It's unclear at this stage an LBO will be completed,''
CreditSights analyst Suzanne Cassidy said today at a conference
in London. ``Modest operating margins do not provide much cushion
against higher interest charges. It makes us doubtful the deal
will get approval from stakeholders.''  
 Sainsbury's earnings before interest and taxes of 438
million pounds last year would leave it with an interest
cover ratio of 0.9 times if the buyout goes ahead, Cassidy said.
A ratio below 1 indicates the business is not generating enough
revenue to meet interest expenses.  
 Increased Leverage  
 Standard & Poor's  said today it may cut Sainsbury's credit
rating of BBB-, the lowest investment grade. The ratings company
cited the increased prospect of Delta's bid going ahead, which
would leave the retailer with debt at 10 times its earnings.  
 The risk of owning Sainsbury debt surged after the
statement. Credit-default swaps on the retailer rose 38 basis
points to 200 basis points, according to Deutsche Bank AG. An
increase in the contracts indicates deteriorating perceptions of
 credit quality .  
 Delta will use the bank loans partly to repay existing
Sainsbury debt and to fund ``long-term financing for the
Sainsbury group,'' according to the RNS statement.  
 Delta said the extra equity ``leads to a reduction in debt
funding'' compared with its proposal in July.  
 The equity financing will increase by 850 million pounds
through the sale of ordinary and preference shares, the statement
said, without providing details of the breakdown.  
 According to the  Times newspaper , the new deal comprises 3.2
billion pounds of ordinary shares, up from 3.1 billion pounds.
The amount of preference shares will rise to 1.3 billion pounds
from 500 million pounds, while the sale of so-called payment-in-
kind notes is 400 million pounds, down from 1 billion pounds, the
London-based newspaper said today.  
 Preference shares typically pay a fixed dividend, while PIK
notes pay no interest until the mature and can be repaid with
equity in the company.  
 The Qatar Investment Authority's Delta funds are used to
manage the Gulf emirate's sovereign wealth. Delta made its bid
for Sainsbury after a takeover attempt by London-based CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. failed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Will McSheehy in Dubai, U.A.E. at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in  London  at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        