-- SL Green Says Leasing Remains Strong, May Buy Assets
-- Hui-yong Yu
-- 2007-09-20T19:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-20/sl-green-says-leasing-remains-strong-may-buy-assets-update1-.html

          
          
             SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) ,  Manhattan 's
biggest office landlord, said the commercial leasing market has
held up in the credit crunch and it sees the potential to buy
assets in the next several months.  
 ``There will be lots of opportunities in this market, maybe
even more so than in the prior couple of years,'' Marc Holliday,
New York-based SL Green's chief executive officer, said in a
presentation at the Merrill Lynch 2007 Global Real Estate
Investment Trusts conference in New York today.  
 SL Green has about $1 billion to spend on acquisitions,
Holliday said. The company, which controls about 24 million
square feet mainly in midtown Manhattan, has been raising cash
by selling properties in some suburban markets.  
 Business remains strong for the financial tenants that
drive Manhattan office rents and there's little visible impact
on the company from  hedge funds  folding or scaling back after
losses tied to the collapse of the subprime mortgage market,
said Holliday. Concerns about hedge funds ``are grossly
overblown,'' said Greg Hughes, SL Green's chief financial
officer and chief operating officer.  
 ``We have leased well, right through the heart of what I
would call the chaos and tumult in July, August and September,''
Holliday said. ``Demand will obviously be less now than it was
back in February because financial services does make up a big
part of our marketplace in New York.''  
 Strong Market  
 Today's office market is stronger than five to six years
ago, Holliday said. In contrast to the 2001 recession brought on
by the stock market plunge and terrorist attacks,  Wall Street 
isn't cutting jobs en masse and companies aren't going out of
business the way Internet related companies did, he said.  
 ``In 2001, when the volatility and uncertainty set in, the
leasing market stopped on a dime and it was a very painful
retraction in terms of tenant demand,'' said Holliday. ``Fifteen
or 16 million square feet were put back on the market. In this
market, a lot of the distress is with some of the best-
capitalized companies in the country.''  
 Hedge funds, which have made announced large losses in
recent months, make up ``less than 3 percent of our portfolio,''
and rent relatively small amounts of space, Holliday said.  
 ``The market itself, the fundamentals are very, very
good,'' said Holliday. ``You have to keep your eye on the sublet
space. That's obviously the leading indicator of where this
market is going to go. The only thing that would cause it to
soften is additional inventory.''  
 SL Green fell $2.83, or 2.5 percent, to $108.70 at 3:14
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock is
down 16 percent this year through yesterday. The Bloomberg REIT
index has declined 7.5 percent in that period.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        