-- Inco Indonesia Studies $500 Million Nickel Project
-- Leony Aurora
-- 2007-03-14T09:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-14/inco-indonesia-studies-500-million-nickel-project-update3-.html

          
          
             PT International Nickel Indonesia (INCO) ,
the country's biggest nickel miner, may build a $500 million mine
and processing plant in  Indonesia 's Central Sulawesi province by
2010, and is considering another plant in Southeast Sulawesi.  
 PT Inco, as the company is known, is studying the potential
size of the project in Bahudopi, Central Sulawesi, President Arif S. Siregar told reporters in Jakarta today. PT Inco, 60 percent
owned by  Brazil 's Cia. Vale do Rio Doce, is also looking at a
possible plant in Pomalaa, he said. He gave no further details.  
 Nickel producers are developing projects in Indonesia as
prices surged to a record this month on concern supplies won't
match demand. Rio Tinto Group, the world's third-largest mining
company, said last month it may invest $2 billion, double an
earlier estimate, developing its first nickel project in the
Asian nation to meet rising demand driven by steelmakers in  China .  
 PT Inco's plan is ``still very preliminary and unclear,''
said Ferry Wong, an analyst with BNP Paribas Peregrine. ``They
are using the strong nickel prices to expand. This is good as
long as they conduct proper feasibility studies'' for the project.  
 Nickel prices have almost tripled in the past year, while
stockpiles tracked by the London Metal Exchange have dropped 89
percent. Nickel is used to make stainless steel, sales of which
are rising, especially in China, the world's fastest-growing
major economy.  
 ``We have to build the plant by 2010 providing that the
project is economically viable,'' Siregar said. The cost of the
plan was stipulated in the exploration contract granted by the
government.  
 Production Plans  
 Nickel for delivery in three months, which reached a record
high of $44,750 a metric ton yesterday, traded at $44,000 a ton
at 4:13 p.m. Jakarta time today.  
 Shares in PT Inco have more than doubled in the past year
compared with a 42 percent rise in the benchmark Jakarta
Composite Index. They fell 1,000 rupiah, or 2.1 percent, to close
at 45,800 rupiah today.  
 PT Inco's nickel production fell 6.1 percent to 71,700
metric tons last year after a furnace was destroyed by a fire in
May, it said on March 8. Output rose to a record 21,237 tons in
the fourth quarter after repairs to the smelter in August.  
 PT Inco plans to raise output as much as 4.5 percent to 165
million pounds of nickel this year, the company said last week.  
 ``The first priority should be building the dam'' to boost
output at the mine in Soroako in Sulawesi, BNP Paribas' Wong said.  
 The company expects to secure a forestry permit to build a
dam in the first half of the year, Siregar said. The dam will
lift electricity supply and help raise nickel production to 200
million pounds by 2010, a year behind the initial schedule, from
157.9 million pounds last year.  
 Vale acquired its stake in PT Inco as part of its $17.4
billion purchase of  Canada 's Inco Ltd., which was completed in
January.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Leony Aurora in Jakarta at 
 laurora@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        