-- `Slumdog' Rahman, Yoga Open Games as Delhi's `Fingers Crossed'
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2010-10-04T08:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/-slumdog-rahman-yoga-open-commonwealth-games-as-delhi-fingers-crossed-.html
The first sporting battles of Delhi’s
 Commonwealth Games  began today after a rousing opening ceremony
that cheered organizers reeling from international criticism of
a chaotic buildup to the 12-day event.  Swimmers, archers and badminton players were in action and
there were no logistical hitches as competitors made their way
to venues along specially created transport lanes, Tarlochan
Singh, head of media and publicity for the games
Organizing Committee, said by phone. Eight gold medals were up
for grabs.  Yesterday, thousands of  dancers, drummers and yoga
performers  had opened the city’s first major sporting event in
30 years with a display of Indian heritage and its status as a
rising economic power, a reputation dented during the buildup by
reports of uninhabitable accommodation for athletes and the
embarrassing collapse of a stadium footbridge.  The “overwhelming performance is a statement to the world
that India is capable of hosting major events,” said Boria
Majumdar, a cricket historian and author. Still, “India needs
to do a quite lot in the next 10 days” to win over doubters, he
said. “There’s no room for complacency.”  India’s President  Pratibha Patil  and Britain’s  Prince Charles  declared the games open during a three-hour celebration
at the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium, while Oscar-winning  ‘Slumdog
Millionaire’  composer A.R. Rahman sang the official games song
and the theme tune from the movie. A giant helium-filled balloon
with mirrors and lights lifted a huge image of Indian freedom
icon Mahatma Gandhi into the air.  ‘Dream Coming True’  “Our dream is coming true, India’s big moment is finally
here,”  Suresh Kalmadi , chairman of the  Delhi Organizing
Committee , said in a speech. “India is ready” to show the
world its rise after overcoming many challenges in the run up to
the 17-sport competition that runs until Oct. 14, he said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  looked on as the competition
involving 71 nations and territories got under way. He wanted
India’s biggest sporting event in three decades to attract
overseas investment. Instead, filthy accommodation for athletes,
the collapse of a footbridge and monsoon floods that led teams
to delay their arrival threatened to deter the investors needed
to drive growth in Asia’s third-biggest economy, Moody’s
Analytics said on Sept. 24.  The Organizing Committee suspended two top officials for
alleged “financial irregularities,” while a third resigned,
the panel’s spokesman Lalit Bhanot said on Aug. 5. Games
officials, in the past two weeks, undertook a cleaning and
rebuilding operation to have venues ready on time.  Dirty Bathrooms  “The image of being corrupt and inefficient has gone
around the world and that cannot be recovered whatever we may do
at the last moment,” said  Ajay K. Mehra , director of New
Delhi’s  Centre for Public Affairs .  The crowd jeered when  Commonwealth Games Federation  Chief
Mike Fennell mentioned Kalmadi’s name in his address yesterday.
Kalmadi said he expected the games to contribute to India’s $1.2
trillion economy, and leave a “fantastic legacy.” He thanked
all the teams for standing by India amid its troubles.  India deployed 100,000 security personnel in New Delhi
ahead of the official opening while markets, malls and
businesses, many of which normally function on Sundays, shut.
Streets near sport venues were almost deserted.  About 7,000 performers entertained 60,000 spectators inside
the stadium as Buddhist monks shared the stage with musicians
from across the country wearing white sarongs, horned headgear
and turbans.  Vuvuzelas, Puppets  The balloon rose from the center of the stadium as the
opening ceremony began, lifting huge Rajasthani puppets into the
air. The names and flags of competing nations rolled along its
sides as the athletes entered, many dressed in traditional
clothing from Scottish kilts to African gowns. South Africa’s
team blew vuvuzelas, the plastic horns that accompanied every
soccer match in this year’s World Cup.  Gold-clad yoga practitioners twisted limbs while men played
electric-blue sitars. Bollywood extravagance and the bustle of
Indian village life gave way to solemnity as a march during
Mahatma Gandhi’s challenge to British colonial rule was created
from sand.  The government spent $4.6 billion upgrading stadiums,
refurbishing roads, building overpasses, and power and water
utilities to stage the event. About 15 kilometers (9.4 miles) of
new metro line linking the stadium was opened yesterday, adding
to the city’s urban rail network.  The event, held every four years and first staged in 1930,
features 8,000 athletes and officials, most from the U.K. and
its former colonies and dependencies.  Fennell said at a Sept. 25 press conference in Delhi he was
disappointed with the Indian organizers and that the lack of
preparedness for the sporting event has hurt the reputation of
the country.  “A lot of damage has been done to India as a host
country,” Fennell said. “I would hope at the end of all this,
India would have learnt a great lesson.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net ; 