-- ‘Yes, Prime Minister’ Skewers Politicos, War Lovers: Review
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2010-10-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/-yes-prime-minister-skewers-politicos-young-man-faces-war-london-stage.html
U.K. Prime Minister Jim Hacker is
bouncing with glee. The Kumranistan president is about to give
Europe a loan of $10 trillion, and Hacker can buttress his
leadership. There’s just one tiny catch. It involves an underage
prostitute.  One of the many impressive things about Antony Jay and
Jonathan Lynn’s laugh-a-minute new comedy “Yes, Prime
Minister,” now playing in the West End, is that the situation
could be portrayed equally well as tragedy. The satire springs
from a well of discomfort.  The loan can only be secured if Hacker and his staff will
supply a 15-year-old call girl to the Kumranistan foreign
minister, who’s staying under his roof. Ten trillion dollars and
the financial security of Europe against one teeny human-rights
abuse? Who would know?  That situation provides the plot of the comedy. It’s also
the framework for a series of asides skewering the hypocrisy of
politicians and civil servants. Oil, British insularity, global
warming, the financial meltdown, Islam, the right, the left --
all are flayed with the razors of wit.  It takes place on a single set, designed to look like a
comfortable paneled office at Chequers, the U.K. prime
minister’s country retreat.  The play is based on the popular 1980s TV sitcom of the
same name by the same authors, which pits the opportunist PM Jim
Hacker against the wily and self-serving head of the civil
service, Sir Humphrey Appleby. Each comically strives to master
the other, and to find solutions to problems that will save
their own faces.  Slickly Suave  David Haig (Hacker) and  Henry Goodman  (Appleby) play their
characters in a broader manner than their former television
counterparts. It’s none the worse for that. One moment, the
disheveled Haig crumples on the floor in distress, another he’s
posturing with hilariously pompous relish. Goodman’s suavity is
deliciously greasy and unctuous. A stage comedy like this can
cope with large gestures.  It also could cope with a better second act. The farcical
mechanics don’t quite chug with the same well-oiled precision
after the intermission even if the satirical tirades are just as
sharp. The BBC? “Optical chewing gum.” Democracy? “Fine, as
long as the right people do the voting.”  The scalpel is wielded with precision. That’s why the
laughs are so true and so long. Rating: ***.  ‘Birdsong’  Rachel Wagstaff, who has adapted  Sebastian Faulks ’s best-
selling novel “Birdsong” for the stage, could learn a thing or
two about precision.  The play, directed by  Trevor Nunn , tells the story of
Stephen Wraysford, a young man who embarks on an affair in
provincial France in 1910. The second part of the story deals
with Stephen’s life in the trenches in World War I.  Stephen (Ben Barnes) spends a lot of the time narrating his
own actions directly to the audience. “I watched Isabelle.”
“My leg brushed hers.” “I walked up the stairs.” That sort
of thing. Other characters helpfully read letters out loud while
they’re writing them.  Narrative exposition is always hard for playwrights. The
solution isn’t to dump buckets of it over the audience. Hasn’t
Wagstaff heard of “Show, don’t tell”?  Against a series of video projections displaying sketches
and photos of French locations, Nunn’s minimalist three-hour
production proceeds with all the speed of an arthritic tortoise.
Too much of the acting feels bland and emotionally undetailed. A
quick swansong for “Birdsong,” I expect. Rating: *.  “Yes, Prime Minister” is at the Gielgud Theatre.
Information:  http://www.delfontmackintosh.co.uk  or
+44-844-482-5130.  “Birdsong” is at the Comedy Theatre through Jan 15, 2011.
See  http://www.ambassadortickets.com  or call +44-844-871-7627.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer of the story:
 Warwick Thompson , in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 