-- American Securities Said to Be Lead Bidder for Kool Smiles Dental Clinics
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2010-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/american-securities-said-to-be-lead-bidder-for-kool-smiles-dental-clinics.html
American Securities LLC , a New York-
based private-equity firm, is the leading bidder for a U.S.
chain of dental clinics owned by Friedman Fleischer & Lowe LLC
with an offer of about $700 million, according to people with
knowledge of the auction.  Friedman Fleischer owns two companies, NCDR LLC and DPMS
Inc., that provide facilities and support staff to dental groups
operating under the  Kool Smiles  brand, according to the San
Francisco-based firm’s website. TPG Capital also submitted an
offer in the final round of bidding, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the deal hasn’t been completed.  Rajat Duggal , a managing director at Friedman Fleischer,
couldn’t be reached for comment. Officials for American
Securities and TPG declined to comment.  Private-equity firms have resumed dealmaking after a two-
year lull following the global financial crisis that started in
mid-2007, freezing credit markets and ending the biggest
leveraged-buyout boom in history. There were $59 billion in
deals in the third quarter, more than triple the amount a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  American Securities, which was founded in 1947 by a Sears
Roebuck & Co. heir, has invested in companies including vacuum-
cleaner maker Oreck Corp. and the El Pollo Loco chain of chicken
restaurants, according to its website. The firm was a runner-up
at the recent sales of Air Medical Group Holdings Inc. and Aspen
Dental Management Inc., both owned by private-equity firms,
according to a person with knowledge of the sales.  Air Medical, Aspen Dental  Leonard Green & Partners, the Los Angeles-based private-
equity firm, is buying Aspen Dental from Ares Management LLC.
Bain Capital LLC, the Boston-based leveraged buyout-fund
manager, is acquiring Air Medical from Brockway Moran & Partners
Inc. and MVP Capital Partners.  Kool Smiles caters to children enrolled in Medicaid, a
federal-state health insurance program for the poor, and other
state health insurance plans, according to Friedman Fleischer’s
website. Some firms that looked at Kool Smiles were concerned
that it was too reliant on Medicaid payments as governments face
deficits, said one person familiar with the auction.  Private-equity firms are increasingly buying companies from
each other as more than half the companies that submitted plans
for U.S. IPOs in 2010 have yet to complete them. Sales among
buyout firms allow the seller to return cash to investors, while
the acquirer is able to deploy unused capital that was raised
during the boom. Clients saw distributions last year fall to the
lowest level since at least 2000, according to London-based
research firm Preqin.  Opening Clinics  Smile Brands Group Inc. , a separate dental chain backed by
private-equity firm Freeman Spogli & Co., scrapped an initial
public offering in May. The company, which relies on patients
with private insurance for most of its revenue, is now shopping
itself in a sale process that is still in early stages,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  American Securities plans to expand Kool Smiles’ main
business of opening clinics in places where access to dentists
and other medical services is limited, the person said.  TPG has been pursuing deals. The Fort Worth, Texas-based
firm and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s buyout arm agreed in July to
purchase Belgian diaper-maker Ontex NV for $1.55 billion from
London-based private-equity firm Candover Investments Plc. TPG
also acquired a 35 percent stake in Creative Artists Agency for
an undisclosed amount in a deal announced Oct. 1.  Friedman Fleischer has more than $2 billion under
management, according to its website. Its holdings include
Korn/Ferry International, the executive-recruiting firm, and
Montpelier Re Holdings Ltd., a Bermuda-based property
reinsurance company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 