-- Arab Petroleum Hires Credit Agricole, HSBC, Samba for Its First Bond Sale
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-10-03T12:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/arab-petroleum-hires-credit-agricole-hsbc-samba-for-its-first-bond-sale.html
Arab Petroluem Investments Corp., an
energy investment unit of the Organization of Arab Petroleum
Exporting Countries, has hired five banks to manage its first
bond sale as it raises funds to double investment across the oil
and gas industry over the next four years.  The Al-Khobar, Saudi Arabia-based company has hired Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank as the coordinating bank
for the bond, Ahmad al-Nuaimi, the company’s chief executive
officer, said in e-mailed responses to questions sent from
Bloomberg. Calyon Saudi Fransi Ltd., GIB Financial Services LLC,
 HSBC Saudi Arabia Ltd . and Samba Capital & Investment Management
Company Ltd. will be joint lead managers and book runners for
the offering, he said.  The bond will be issued after an investors’ road-show that
starts today and runs until Oct. 6, al-Nuaimi said, without
revealing the size and pricing of the offering.  “Essentially, the Saudi riyal bond is part of a broad
funding plan and the proceeds will be mainly used to expand
Apicorp’s loan and equity portfolios,” al-Nuaimi said. “We
expect to double our direct investment portfolio by the end of
our 2010-2014 five-year plan from a value of $257 million at the
end of 2006.”  Companies in Saudi Arabia, the largest Arab economy, are
stepping up bond sales to finance expansion plans as the
government seeks to spur economic growth and build
infrastructure. A five-year, $400 billion stimulus package was
announced by the government in late 2008.  Favorable Conditions  “Market conditions in Saudi Arabia are very favorable and
we believe this is a very good time to go ahead with our debut
debt capital market issuance,” al-Nuaimi said. “The kingdom’s
low interest rates and high liquidity offer the optimal
conditions for Apicorp to raise funds.”  Moody’s Investors Service assigned a provisional rating of
A1 to the 2015 bonds on Oct. 1.  Arab Petroleum is looking at several investment
opportunities in petroleum, petrochemicals, and general oil and
gas projects within the Middle East and North Africa region that
are either at an early conceptual stage or at an advanced
feasibility stage, al-Nuaimi said.  “For instance, currently, we are actively pursuing the
development of four mid-stream oil projects,” he said, without
providing further details.  The company has “participated in direct and syndicated
energy transactions” worth about $123 billion over the past few
years. It has also lent in the region of $10 billion to member
countries and other Arab countries, al-Nuaimi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net . 