-- Latvia's Governing Coalition Plans to Stay Together After Election Victory
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-10-03T16:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/latvia-s-governing-coalition-plans-to-stay-together-after-election-victory.html
Latvian Prime Minister  Valdis Dombrovskis  plans to keep his ruling coalition intact after the
three parties won a majority in the nation’s first parliamentary
election since it suffered the world’s deepest  recession .  The parties, led by Dombrovskis’s Unity bloc, won 63 seats
in the 100-member legislature yesterday, compared with the 45
they now control, according to estimates by the election
commission with 99 percent of precincts reporting. After meeting
with leaders of the two smaller parties today, Dombrovskis said
he may ask parliament to confirm the new government on Nov. 2.  “We have agreed with the Union of Greens & Farmers and
with For Fatherland to go forward without any delay and try to
create a new government,” Dombrovskis said on Latvijas Radio.
By moving quickly the government may be able to pass the 2011
budget this year, he said.  Unity topped the vote even after Dombrovskis raised taxes
and cut spending, including wages for public employees, to meet
the terms of a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.3 billion) bailout led by
the International Monetary Fund and European Union. The next
premier will have to reduce the  budget deficit  by almost two-
thirds by 2012 to comply with EU rules.  “This is a very big win,” said  Nils Muiznieks , a
professor of political science at the University of Latvia.
“It’s quite striking in a broader European context as well. How
did voters react to this crisis? They voted for a Prime Minister
who put through painful austerity measures.”  The premier’s party won 30.7 percent of the vote, followed
by 25.7 percent for the opposition Harmony Center, which
represents Russian speakers’ interests. Unity will have 33 seats
in parliament and Harmony 29.  Talks With Harmony  Dombrovskis said Unity leaders will meet with Harmony
Center tomorrow about possible cooperation in parliament. No
party representing Latvia’s Russian-speaking minority, which
makes up about a third of the population, has been part of the
government since the country declared independence from the
Soviet Union in 1991.  “We can’t ignore Harmony Center and leave them out,” said
Solvita Aboltina, a Unity member of parliament, according to the
newswire  Leta . “We have to think of ways of how to democratize
parliament and involve the opposition in its work.”  The two smaller coalition parties, Greens & Farmers and For
Fatherland, received 19.4 percent and 7.5 percent of the vote,
respectively. The opposition For a Good Latvia had about 7.6
percent. Turnout was 63 percent.  For a Good Latvia, which is made up of the People’s Party
and Latvia’s First Party, led the four-party coalition that
governed Latvia during the boom period, and was blamed by some
voters for the crisis. The party won 33 seats in the 2006
election. It will have eight seats in the new parliament.  ‘Verge of Bankruptcy’  Latvia’s economy shrank a cumulative 25 percent in 2008 and
2009 as a property boom turned to bust and the country’s second-
largest bank failed.  Dombrovskis, a former finance minister and central bank
economist, was named prime minister on Feb. 26, 2009, two weeks
after his predecessor’s four-party Cabinet collapsed. Upon
taking power, he warned that Latvia was “on the verge of
bankruptcy.” His government approved a supplementary budget
that ensured the continued flow of funds from the IMF and EU.  The next government will face a budget deficit of about 8.5
percent of gross domestic product this year, with plans in place
to cut the shortfall to 6 percent in the 2011 budget.  Crafting next year’s budget will be “hard work,”
Dombrovskis said.  The decline in Latvia’s economy during the past two years
was the deepest in the world, according to an IMF  working paper 
published Sept. 1. The country has implemented austerity
measures equal to 14 percent of GDP since the bailout program
began in late 2008, according to the Latvian central bank.  ‘Unprecedented’ Austerity  The spending cuts and tax increases implemented by
Dombrovskis’ government were the biggest among the three Baltic
states, where were “unprecedented by historical and
international standards,” the IMF said.  Latvian  unemployment  increased to 20.4 percent in the first
quarter, from 5.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007,
according to a labor force survey. The figure fell to 19.4
percent in the second quarter.  The economy saw its first quarterly growth in the first and
second quarters, expanding 0.3 percent and 0.8 percent, and is
expected to contract around 1.5 percent for the year, according
to Swedbank AB, the biggest bank in the Baltic states.  Latvia’s credit default swaps, which investors use to
protect against default or speculate on a borrower’s credit
worthiness, surged to 1,193 basis points in March 2009. They
fell to 328.5 basis points on Oct. 1, below the costs for
Greece, Ireland, Portugal, and Romania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  