-- Australia to Weigh Rate Rise Timing as Housing Cools
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   D a n   P e t r i e
-- 2010-10-04T06:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/australia-to-weigh-timing-of-next-rate-increase-as-property-market-cools.html
Australia’s central bank will decide
tomorrow whether higher interest rates are needed to avert
faster inflation amid signs that past increases are cooling the
nation’s property market.  The Reserve Bank of Australia will raise the  overnight cash
rate target  to 4.75 percent from 4.5 percent, 19 of 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said. Futures traders
estimated a 60 percent chance of a move, contracts showed at 5
p.m. in Sydney. The decision is scheduled for 2:30 p.m. tomorrow.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled last month the biggest
mining boom in more than a century may prompt him to extend the
most aggressive round of  rate increases  by a Group of 20 member
to prevent a build-up of inflation pressures. Policy makers have
left the rate unchanged since May, citing European debt concerns
that eased last month, fueling the biggest gain in the MSCI
World Index since the financial crisis subsided in April 2009.  “It’s a knife-edge decision,” said  Joshua Williamson , a
senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney. “There’s not a
huge amount of recent domestic data to argue for an immediate
rate hike, but the RBA has been aggressive in its signaling.
They’re clearly itching to go.”  Speculation intensified in recent weeks that Stevens will
boost borrowing costs before the end of the year, helping fuel
an 8.6 percent surge in Australia’s currency last month and
pushing it toward parity with its U.S. counterpart. The local
dollar is the best performer among the 16 most actively traded
currencies over the past 12 months.  ‘Robust Upswing’  “If downside possibilities do not materialize, the task
ahead is likely to be one of managing a fairly robust upswing,”
Stevens told a forum in the regional city of Shepparton in
Victoria state on Sept. 20. “Part of that task will, clearly,
fall to monetary policy.”  Economic  growth  is forecast to accelerate by the RBA as
demand from China for iron ore and energy spurs investment
spending by companies such as  Chevron Corp. , which is building
the A$43 billion ($41.7 billion) Gorgon liquefied natural gas
project in Western Australia.  The boom is also fueling a hiring surge that threatens to
stoke wage inflation, which the central bank aims to keep
between 2 percent and 3 percent. An  annual gauge  of what the RBA
calls core inflation, the weighted median, was 2.7 percent in
the second quarter.  Full Employment  Australia’s  jobless  rate was 5.1 percent in August,
matching the lowest level since January 2009. RBA Assistant
Governor  Philip Lowe  said last month the jobless level is
“almost at what would be considered full employment.”  There are signs of weaker spending by consumers, who
account for more than half of gross domestic product, after
policy makers increased the benchmark lending rate in six
quarter percentage point steps to 4.5 percent in May from a
half-century low of 3 percent in October, 2009.  Home-building approvals fell in August by the most in three
months, credit growth stalled, manufacturing contracted in
September for the first time this year and consumer confidence
declined, recent figures showed.  A report showed last week that manufacturing in China,
Australia’s largest trade partner, expanded at the fastest pace
in four months in September, adding to signs that economic
growth there is stabilizing even as the government curbs energy
use and tries to cool the property market.  Federal Reserve  Citigroup’s Williamson is among analysts that expect
Stevens to add as much as 1 percentage point to the benchmark
rate over the next 12 months. By contrast, the U.S. Federal
Reserve, which has kept its main rate at a record low since
December 2008, has said it’s willing to ease monetary policy
further to spur growth.  Higher Australian borrowing costs would further restrain
the local property market, which the RBA said last week shows
“welcome signs” of cooling. The bank’s six increases to date
added about A$3,600 a year to repayments on an average A$300,000
mortgage.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said today there isn’t “any
justification” for Australian lenders to boost their mortgage
rates by more than the central bank’s potential move. “Banks
are making healthy profits at the moment,” he said in a radio
interview with the Australia Broadcasting Corp.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Petrie  in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  