-- Banks Need More `Intrusive' Oversight to Avoid Excess Risk, IMF Staff Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-10-03T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/banks-need-more-intrusive-oversight-to-avoid-excess-risk-imf-staff-says.html
Regulators around the world must be
more aggressive in their efforts to prevent banks and other
financial companies from taking on too much risk, International
Monetary Fund staff said in a report today.  “Supervision needs to be more intensive and intrusive, as
well as more focused on cross-border exposures,” the IMF report
said. It also called for further consideration of a
stabilization fund to be created among banks to cover the cost
of cleaning up future crises.  The report said that, three years after the start of the
global financial crisis, “concerns remain that many of the
structural characteristics that contributed to the build-up of
systemic risks are still in place today.”  The report,  “Shaping the New Financial System,”  urges
countries to give regulators a “clear legal mandate” to
oversee their financial markets and companies, as well as
sufficient funding and authority.  Supervisory agencies should issue public reports of their
work and be able to share information “with domestic regulators
and foreign counterparts,” the report said.  The paper also focuses on private-sector cooperation.  “Business models and practices will need to be aligned”
and “boards of directors will need to be equipped with powers
to rein in excessive risk taking and be held accountable for
it,” it said.  Leaders from the Group of 20 nations will meet in Seoul in
November to consider financial regulatory proposals, including
new international bank capital requirements from the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, known as the  Basel III
framework.   ‘Considerable Progress’  The IMF staff paper said that while “considerable
progress” has been made on banking regulation, “the reform
agenda now stands at a critical juncture where difficult policy
choices have to be made.”  The IMF called for “political commitment at the highest
levels” among leaders in the U.S., Europe and Asia to develop
plans for handling a troubled bank or “cross-border financial
institution” whose collapse could threaten the global financial
system.  “Such an agreement is critical to address the problem of
‘too important to fail,’ ” the IMF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  