-- FTSE 100 Falls as Inmarsat, Basic Resources Slip, Wolseley Rises
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-04T15:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/bg-group-prudential-rockhopper-wellstream-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks fell for the third time
in four days as a slide in  Inmarsat Plc  and basic-resources
shares outweighed a gain in  Wolseley Plc .  Inmarsat fell 1.8 percent after the Sunday Times reported
Harbinger Capital Partners is preparing to sell a third of its
stake in the world’s biggest provider of satellite services.  Rio
Tinto Group  slipped 1.5 percent. Wolseley rose 1.2 percent after
it was initiated at “outperform” at Credit Suisse Group AG.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  fell 36.93, or 0.7 percent, to
5,555.97 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, extending last week’s
0.1 percent decline. Still, the gauge has rallied 16 percent
since this year’s low in July as investors speculated that the
world economy will avoid another recession even as European
governments slash spending and U.S. growth slows. The  FTSE All-
Share Index  slid 0.6 percent today and Ireland’s  ISEQ Index 
gained 0.5 percent.  “Investors just want to take some money off the table,”
 Neil Phillips , a fund manager at BlueBay Asset Management Plc in
London, which oversees about $38 billion, said today. “The
dynamic that caused the outperformance is still very much in
play and should reassert itself after the lull in momentum.”  China, U.S.  China’s non-manufacturing industries expanded at a faster
pace in September. A purchasing managers’ index released
yesterday by the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
rose to 61.7 from 60.1 in August. The data follow a jump to a
four-month high for the manufacturing PMI announced on Oct. 1.  China will address “structural problems” and stabilize
its economy by increasing domestic demand, Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said in an interview with CNN broadcast yesterday. Wen said he’d
argued before the global recession that China’s economic
development “lacks balance, coordination and sustainability.”  A government report today showed U.S. factory orders
dropped 0.5 percent in August, pulled lower by a pullback in
demand for aircraft. That compared with the 0.4 percent decline
projected by the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Inmarsat  slumped 2 percent to 655 pence, the lowest price
since Aug. 24. Harbinger Capital Partners is preparing to sell a
third of its stake in Inmarsat as it seeks to raise money to
invest in other companies, the Sunday Times reported, without
saying where it got the information.  Mining Stocks  Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company,
retreated 1.5 percent to 3,697 pence, erasing the 0.9 percent
rise on Oct. 1 and tracking a 1.2 percent drop among basic
resources stocks on the Stoxx 600 Index.  Xstrata Plc , the biggest exporter of coal used in power
stations, slipped 2.6 percent, while  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the
world’s largest mining company, declined 1.5 percent to 2,026.5
pence.  Kazakhmys Plc , Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer,
tumbled 2.6 percent to 1,423 pence, the steepest fall since
August.  Rockhopper Exploration Plc , the U.K. explorer searching for
oil and gas off the Falkland Islands, retreated 4 percent to
441.5 pence, down 9.7 percent since Sept. 29. The company is
preparing a $200 million rights offer in the next six weeks to
fund drilling, the Sunday Times reported, citing unidentified
people familiar with the matter.  Wolseley climbed 1.2 percent to 1,601 pence, rebounding
from the 1.1 percent fall on Oct. 1. The supplier of heating and
plumbing products was initiated at “outperform” at Credit
Suisse.  Premier Foods Plc  soared 10 percent to 17.9 pence, the
biggest gain since Sept. 3. The maker of Hovis bread received
expressions of interest in its Quorn brand of meat-free products
and related units and may sell them, the company said.  Wellstream Holdings Plc  increased for a third day, climbing
2 percent to 789 pence. General Electric Co. made a bid worth
more than 800 million pounds for the U.K. oilfield-services
provider focused on Brazil, the Sunday Times reported, citing
unidentified people close to the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 