-- Calvin Klein Store Designer Works for Trappist Monks: Interview
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-10-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/calvin-klein-shop-designer-pawson-s-stripped-down-buildings-inspire-monks.html
The  Calvin Klein  store in Manhattan
seems an unlikely inspiration for a monastery.  Yet Trappist monks leafing through a book were so taken
with the look of the Madison Avenue flagship that they hired its
architect  John Pawson  to build their monastery in the Czech
Republic -- and won him critical acclaim.  “Architecture is one thing, what happens inside is
another,” says  Pawson , 61. “They saw a space which they
thought could be used as a church. They saw the two tables on
which  sweaters  were displayed as being altars.”  After a 29-year career -- designing a home for author Bruce
Chatwin, a bridge for  Kew Gardens , London, and airport lounges
for  Cathay Pacific  -- Pawson is getting his first U.K. solo
show, at London’s  Design Museum  (whose future building he will
revamp). He became known as a guru of minimalism, after his 1996
book “Minimum,” and is now moving into the public spotlight.  We meet at the exhibition -- an array of sketches, wall
photographs and maquettes. At its core is a contemplative room,
with benches on either side, and an arch that lets light dapple
through -- a flashback to the monastery at Novy Dvur.  Pawson has a quiet elegance that masks undercurrents of
anxiety. He wears pressed gray trousers with an open-neck white
shirt, and twice stops our conversation to check the new
displays. “The storm before the calm,” he says.  His understated ethos clashes with the global trend in
“starchitecture” -- look-at-me buildings by big names.  Personality Cult  “I’m very fortunate to be in an age where architecture has
gotten noticed,” he says. “I’m not complaining that there’s
the cult of the personality, because it enables me to build.”  Born in Halifax, Yorkshire, Pawson tried his hand at the
family textile business, then moved to Japan. He taught English
at a university and visited the studio of architect Shiro
Kuramata. Somewhere along the line, he caught the building bug.  He enrolled at London’s Architecture Association, and left
after three years without collecting his degree. Since 1981, he
has made his way as an architect.  “Calvin Klein and working for him changed people’s
perception of me, so I became the man that did shops,” he says.
“Before that, I was the man that did galleries, or people’s
flats.”  The Czech  monastery  takes up a good third of his show.
Everywhere else are traces of past projects, built or not.  London Refuge  Pawson’s project for the late Chatwin occupies a corner of
a neatly labeled archive table. In a 1984 essay, Chatwin wrote
that Pawson makes “simple, harmonious rooms that are a real
refuge from the hideousness of contemporary London.”  In Manhattan Pawson worked with Klein, who he finds
energetic and interested: “He’ll sit for 12 hours and focus on
a window detail, which, to be honest, I can’t do.”  One project that never happened was Pawson’s 1998 plan for
fashion designer  Karl Lagerfeld ’s house in Biarritz, France. The
circular sketch for the tennis court was rejected in a letter
from the Chanel maestro (included in the show) who wrote “I
hate everything ‘round.’”  Lagerfeld is “an amazing raconteur and an amazing mimic,
and also, like me, obsessed,” says the architect. Yet designers
“want to have done it themselves, really.”  Next is Pawson’s mission to move the Design Museum into its
new base at the former Commonwealth Institute in Kensington.
Beyond that, he has one objective: “Get the quality better.”  “John Pawson -- Plain Space” is at the Design Museum,
Shad Thames, London SE1 2YD through Jan. 30, 2011. Information:
 http://designmuseum.org/exhibitions/2010/2010-john-pawson  or
+44-207-403-6933.  ( Farah Nayeri  is a writer for Muse, the arts & leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 