-- Cameron Says U.K. Single-Benefit Program Will Cost Money Now, Save Later
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-10-03T10:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/cameron-says-single-welfare-benefit-to-cost-money-now-yield-savings-later.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
money spent now to simplify Britain’s welfare-benefits system
will yield savings in the future.  Cameron’s Conservative Party and its Liberal Democrat
coalition partners plan to replace the current system of welfare
and tax credits, in which people on low incomes or without jobs
can claim different benefits to cover specific needs, with a
single-payment program.  The move risks alienating some voters by cutting their
entitlements. The  Sunday Times  newspaper reported today that the
child-benefit payment, currently paid to parents until their
children are 18, may stop when they’re 16 as the government
looks for savings to narrow a  record budget shortfall .  “One pound out of every three is spent on welfare, so you
have to deal with the extent of welfare dependency in this
country if you’re going to get the budget deficit under
control,” Cameron said in a BBC television interview in
Birmingham, central England, where his party’s annual conference
starts today. “It does cost some money up front, and we are
seeking general welfare savings to pay for it.”  Five months after taking power following the May 6 general
election, the Conservatives are neck-and-neck in opinion polls
with the opposition Labour Party, which last week elected  Ed Miliband , 40, as leader to replace former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown .  Spending Review  Conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
will publish his comprehensive spending review on Oct. 20,
setting out how the government plans to reduce its expenditure.  Cameron said details of which welfare payments are to be
cut will be given in the review. He said that in time the move
to a single-benefit program would save money by making fraud
more difficult and ensuring that claimants who find jobs see
their incomes increase, reducing disincentives to work.  “We spend billions of pounds on welfare in this country,
the bill is going up and up and up, and yet millions of our
fellow citizens are trapped in poverty,” Cameron said. “You
meet someone who’s desperate to work, but if they work they lose
their housing benefit, they lose their council-tax benefit, and
they ask, is it worth my while working?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 