-- China Non-Manufacturing Purchasing Index Rises on Demand for Construction
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-03T03:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/china-non-manufacturing-purchasing-index-rises-on-demand-for-construction.html
China’s non-manufacturing industries
expanded at a faster pace in September behind increases in
construction and consumer spending.  A purchasing managers’ index released today by the China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing rose to 61.7 from 60.1 in
August. The data follow a jump to a four-month high for the
 manufacturing PMI  announced on Oct. 1, underscoring sustained
 growth momentum  in the world’s fastest-growing major economy
even as the government seeks to cool the property market.  “Non-manufacturing activities have been growing rapidly
and in a sound range recently and September’s gain is partly due
to seasonal factors,” the federation said in a statement on its
 website  today. The growth also reflects “the government’s
increased investment in the service industries as it seeks to
adjust the economic growth model,” the agency said.  Index numbers above 50 indicate an expansion and below 50 a
contraction.  A construction sub-index rose by 3.6 points to 69.5 last
month on rising demand, and an index of consumer services
climbed to 60.1, according to today’s  statement , which gave no
comparative figures. Real-estate sub-indexes on activities, new
orders and fee prices all jumped from August, indicating a
rebound by the industry, the federation said.  Sales Growth  China’s car-sales growth accelerated for the first time in
five months in August and property sales rebounded. The
government on Sept. 29 intensified efforts to cool property
prices by tightening down-payment requirements for first homes,
suspending third-home loans nationwide and pledging to quicken a
trial of a property tax.  The steps may pressure future growth of the property sector,
the federation said today. The agency also highlighted rising
inflationary pressure indicated by higher costs of cement, steel
and food.  The federation’s non-manufacturing PMI is based on data
compiled from purchasing executives at 1,191 companies in 20
sectors including building, manufacturing services and consumer
services. The figures aren’t seasonally adjusted.  -- Li Yanping . Editors:  Jim McDonald ,  Paul Tighe   To contact the reporter on this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  