-- German Stocks Drop for Sixth Day; Daimler, BMW Lead Declines in Frankfurt
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-10-04T15:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/daimler-hochtief-jenoptik-porsche-vw-may-move-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks retreated, sending the
DAX Index to its longest losing streak since January 2009, as
better-than-estimated economic reports from the U.S. failed to
ease concern that the recovery is stalling.  Daimler AG , the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury
cars, lost 3.8 percent, while rival  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG 
slipped 2.2 percent as German car sales fell.  ThyssenKrupp AG 
and  Salzgitter AG  followed metal prices lower.  H&R Wasag AG 
climbed 1.8 percent as CA Cheuvreux recommended buying the
shares.  The benchmark DAX slipped 1.2 percent to 6,134.21 at the
5.30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, posting the longest streak of
declines since January 2009. The measure rallied 4.4 percent in
the third quarter on speculation the Federal Reserve and other
central banks will step in to provide more stimulus for the
ailing global recovery. Still, lingering concern that some
European countries will fail to repay their debt has left the
gauge 3.4 percent below its August high. The broader HDAX Index
also decreased 1.2 percent today.  “A selloff in carmakers today shows that investors are
still worried about a weak economic recovery and a potential
double dip,” said  Thomas Nagel , a German equity market
strategist and technical analyst, who publishes BoersenSonar
weekly newsletter. “I expect some days of consolidation in
October and investors are taking profits after a better-than-
expected September.”  U.S. Economy  A report today showed orders for U.S. capital goods rose in
August more than previously estimated, a sign companies are
replacing outdated equipment. Total bookings dropped, pulled
lower by a pullback in demand for aircraft.  A separate report from the National Association of Realtors
showed pending sales of existing homes climbed more than
forecast in August. Signed contracts increased 4.3 percent after
a 4.5 percent increase in July, indicating housing demand is
stabilizing after reaching record lows. The median forecast of
economists surveyed projected a 2.5 percent increase.  A purchasing managers’ index released yesterday by the
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing rose to 61.7 from
60.1 in August. The data follow a jump to a four-month high for
the manufacturing PMI announced on Oct. 1.  Daimler, BMW  China will address “structural problems” and stabilize
its economy by increasing domestic demand, Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said in an interview with CNN broadcast yesterday. Wen said he’d
argued before the global recession that China’s economic
development “lacks balance, coordination and sustainability.”  Daimler and BMW retreated 3.8 percent to 43.79 euros and
2.2 percent to 48.22 euros, respectively. European carmakers
lost 2.6 percent today, the worst performance among 19 industry
groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, dropped 3.6
percent to 83.36 euros. German new-car sales in September
declined 18 percent to about 260,000 vehicles, the VDIK industry
group said in an e-mailed statement today.  ThyssenKrupp and  Salzgitter , Germany’s biggest steelmakers,
dropped 1.7 percent to 24.13 euros and 2.6 percent to 45.95
euros, respectively. European basic-resource shares lost 1.2
percent today.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG  dropped 3 percent to 16.96 euros as
Germany’s biggest private broadcaster was downgraded to “sell”
from “hold” at Independent Research GmbH.  H&R Wasag advanced 1.8 percent to 18.35 euros, gaining for
a fourth day. Cheuvreux raised its recommendation on the
specialty chemicals maker to “outperform” from
“underperform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 