-- Disney Names Pleasants, Pitaro Co-Presidents of Disney Interactive Media
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2010-10-03T21:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/disney-names-pleasants-pitaro-co-presidents-of-disney-interactive-media.html
Walt Disney Co.  named Playdom Chief
Executive Officer  John Pleasants  and James Pitaro, head of
Yahoo! Inc.’s media unit, co-presidents of the interactive media
group, revamping digital operations to reverse losses.  The pair replace  Steve Wadsworth , a 17-year Disney division
head who left in September, the company said today in a
statement. Pleasants and Pitaro, who start Oct. 18, will oversee
the unit focused on the digital-games market and selling online
sites based on Disney’s TV shows, movies and characters.  The appointments will allow Disney, world’s largest media
company, to build upon the digital assets acquired in the past
three years, Chief Executive Officer  Bob Iger  said. The
interactive business lost $130 million through the first nine
months of the year, making it the only  unprofitable  division.  “We see this as a growth area and we need people
experienced in how to best operate them,” Iger, 59, said in an
interview today.  Disney, based in Burbank, California, rose 24 cents to
$33.34 on Oct. 1. The shares have gained 22 percent during the
past year,  compared  with an 11 percent increase for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  In 2007, Disney bought children’s social network Club
Penguin for $350 million, following that this July with social-
gaming site Playdom, paying $563 million. The company also has
bought Wideload Games and mobile-content site Tapulous.  Iger said he intends to allow the two men “freedom” to
run the units, and Pleasants will keep working from Playdom’s
office in Palo Alto, California. Iger described the arrangement
as similar to Disney’s  acquisition  of Pixar, which operates
mostly independently of Disney’s film studio.  Pleasants, a former CEO at Ticketmaster, will oversee
Playdom, Disney’s Club Penguin, the World of Cars virtual unit
and Tapulous. Pitaro will run Disney.com, Family.com, and its
social-media marketing agency DigiSynd. At  Yahoo , Pitaro
expanded Yahoo! Sports and upgraded its news, finance,
entertainment and lifestyle coverage, Disney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 