-- Hedge Funds Cut Bullish Natural-Gas Bets Most Since August: Energy Markets
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2010-10-04T19:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/hedge-funds-cut-natural-gas-bullish-bets-most-since-august-energy-markets.html
Hedge funds  cut  bullish bets on
natural gas by the most since August as storms steered clear of
production in the Gulf of Mexico and weak demand boosted a U.S.
stockpile surplus.  Hedge funds and other large speculators reduced wagers on
rising prices by 25 percent in the seven days ended Sept. 28,
according to the weekly Commitments of Traders report from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Natural gas declined 2.1
percent that week.  “There’s no one as bearish as a disappointed bull,” said
 Tim Evans , an energy analyst with Citi Futures Perspective in
New York. “Speculators and money managers liked the long side
of the market. They positioned themselves net-long. And they
have been very, very disappointed,” he said.  Natural gas has declined 33 percent this year on
speculation demand will be slow to recover as the U.S. emerges
from the deepest recession since the 1930s and forecasters
expect higher-than-normal temperatures in the heating season.  Futures for November delivery fell 7 cents, or 1.8 percent,
to settle at $3.727 per million British thermal units on the New
York Mercantile Exchange.  Net-long positions in futures and options combined in four
natural-gas contracts decreased by  17,373  futures equivalents to
51,306 in the week ended Sept. 28, the CFTC data showed.  The measure of natural-gas net longs includes an index of
four contracts adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural
gas futures, Nymex Henry Hub Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate
Swaps, and ICE Henry Hub Swaps. Henry Hub in Erath, Louisiana,
is the delivery point for the Nymex futures, a benchmark price
for the fuel.  Lost Momentum  “The bulls don’t have any momentum,” said  Hamza Khan , an
analyst at the Schork Group Inc., a consulting company in
Villanova, Pennsylvania. “They don’t have a leg to stand on.”  Gas stockpiles  rose 74 billion cubic feet in the week ended
Sept. 24 to 3.414 trillion, the Energy Department said last
week. The five-year average gain for the week is 67 billion
cubic feet. A surplus to the five-year average climbed to 6.3
percent from 6.2 percent the previous week.  Inventories will peak at 3.687 trillion cubic feet before
cold-weather demand prompts utilities to pull gas from storage,
the department predicted in its monthly  Short-Term Energy
Outlook  on Sept. 8. Stockpiles rose to a record 3.837 trillion
cubic feet last November.  Speculation that the hurricane season would curb production
in the Gulf of Mexico has begun to fade, Khan said. The federal
waters in the Gulf produce 10 percent of U.S. natural gas,
according to the Energy Department.  Hurricane Season  The most active part of the Atlantic hurricane season is
from Aug. 20 to about Oct. 20, according to  William Gray , who
pioneered seasonal forecasts at Colorado State University in
Fort Collins.  A total of 7.9 billion cubic feet of gas production was
shut in from June through August because of storms, lower than
projections of 57.4 billion, the Energy Department said in its
Sept. 8 outlook.  A low pressure area over the Northern Caribbean Sea has a
10 percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone during the next
48 hours, according to  the National Hurricane Center . A weather
system 900 miles east of the Lesser Antilles has a 30 percent
chance of becoming a cyclone.  Storms can hurt natural gas demand when they miss the Gulf
of Mexico and drench the U.S. East Coast, curbing air-
conditioning demand, Khan said. Traders are also anticipating a
U.S. winter that is forecast to be warmer than usual, he said.  Warmer Weather  Northeast and central U.S. states are predicted to be
warmer than normal from October to December, while the Southeast
and the Pacific Northwest will have cooler weather, according to
The Weather Channel’s  WSI Corp.   About 23 percent of U.S. electricity is generated using
natural gas, according to the Energy Department. About 53
percent of U.S. households use it for heating.  In other markets, hedge funds and other large speculators
raised  bets  that gasoline prices would climb for the fourth
straight week, increasing net-long positions by 2,606 futures
and options combined, or 13 percent, to 22,732.  Managed money’s  net-long positions  in crude oil rose
10,583, or 10 percent, to 116,906.  Net-long positions  in heating
oil climbed 787, or 2.6 percent, to 31,266.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  