-- Medvedev Curbs Company Eurobond Sales on Record-Low Yields: Russia Credit
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-10-04T16:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/medvedev-curbs-company-eurobond-sales-on-record-low-yields-russia-credit.html
Russia is limiting access to the
Eurobond market to prevent a repeat of the surge in foreign-
currency indebtedness that triggered company bailouts in 2008 as
borrowing costs tumble.  The  government created  a group last week to monitor
overseas debt by state companies and “systemically” important
financial institutions. OAO Gazprom, Russia’s largest company,
and diamond monopoly ZAO Alrosa are among state-controlled
borrowers planning their first Eurobond sales in at least a year
as the economic rebound sends yields to a record low.  “Issuance by major borrowers at the same time could
destabilize and worsen market conditions,” Deputy Finance
Minister  Alexei Savatyugin  said in an interview on Sept. 30
after his appointment to head the Inter-Agency Working Group for
Monitoring the Conditions on the Financial Market.  Emerging-market bond sales surged to a record $196 billion
in the third quarter as companies including Vale SA, the world’s
biggest iron-ore exporter, and Korea Electric Power Corp., South
Korea’s largest electricity producer, took advantage of a plunge
in yields to as low as 5.4 percent in August from 6.8 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Russian corporate Eurobonds rallied the most in a year in
the past three months, recovering from second-quarter losses, as
a jump in oil prices helped the world’s largest energy exporter
recover from its worst economic contraction last year since the
Soviet era.  Yields  on Russian corporate bonds fell to a record-
low 5.57 percent on Aug. 19, and were at 5.595 percent on Oct.
1, compared with 20.4 percent in October 2008, according to
JPMorgan’s  EMBI+  index.  Rusal Bailout  The last time borrowing costs dropped to record lows, in
2007, Russian Eurobond sales surged 33 percent from the previous
year to $28.3 billion. The government spent $11 billion bailing
out companies and banks the next year as a 35 percent slump in
the ruble against the dollar pushed up the cost of servicing
overseas debt. Oleg Deripaska’s Moscow-based United Co. Rusal,
the world’s biggest aluminum producer, was forced to restructure
$17.8 billion, the most ever for a Russian company, after a $4.5
billion state bailout loan. Alfa Group’s telecommunications unit
Altimo received a $1.5 billion rescue.  ‘Currency Risks’  Companies mostly stayed out of the Eurobond market last
quarter, with banks accounting for all $4.4 billion of
international bond sales from Russia in the third quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Russia’s government has been encouraging companies instead
to tap the domestic market. Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said
last December that state companies are a cause for concern
because they “sometimes don’t have a clear understanding of
currency risks,” adding that he plans to “control” borrowing
by state-run companies.  The government plans to reduce foreign-currency  debt  to 20
percent of total corporate borrowing from about 42 percent by
doubling the amount of ruble interest payments eligible for tax
deductions, State Duma Deputy Natalia Burykina of Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin ’s United Russia party said in July.  The government used the domestic bond market to cover most
of this year’s public borrowing after initially planning to sell
half of its debt abroad, according to Finance Ministry data.  The new group will report annually to President  Dmitry Medvedev , who has called for the ruble to become an
international reserve currency repeatedly in the past year.  “In the reality of imperfect incentives by many actors for
prudent debt monitoring and borrowing, enhanced monitoring and
constraints can help limit excessive and imprudent leverage,”
said  Zeljko Bogetic , the World Bank’s lead economist for Russia.  Viable Ruble Market  The group is part of a drive to create a “more viable
domestic market for long-term ruble financing,” said  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist for Russia and the Commonwealth of
Independent States at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research in
Moscow. “This is a good step as it will reduce external
indebtedness and make Russia less susceptible to global
shocks.”  Russian companies have cut foreign debt for the past three
quarters to $293.9 billion at the end of last year, central bank
data published July 6 show. Private companies have repaid a net
$80 billion of external debt in the two years to last June, with
banks accounting for $70 billion, said  Ed Parker , director of
emerging Europe sovereign ratings at Fitch Ratings.  “This is about avoiding a potential situation in the
future in which state-owned banks and corporates, systemically
important institutions or those receiving government support
take on excessive debt levels or bunched maturity profiles that
might create contingent liabilities to the state or macro-
financial vulnerabilities,” Parker said.  $7 Billion of Bonds  While Russian companies stayed out of the international
debt market last quarter, they may sell as much as $7 billion of
bonds overseas in the next three months, said  Alexander Kudrin ,
head of fixed income research at Troika Dialog in Moscow.  “Having a good sense of the borrowing activities of
corporates provides the authorities with a basis for taking pre-
emptive policy action if the build-up of debt is deemed
excessive,” said  Odd Per Brekk , the International Monetary
Fund’s senior representative in Russia. “Such action could
include monetary policy and financial prudential steps, as well
as making sure that borrowing policies of state-controlled
companies support financial stability.”  Gazprom, the Moscow-based gas monopoly, plans its first
sale of Eurobonds since July 2009 in the fourth quarter, Yana
Kolosovskaya, head of loans and guarantees, said in an interview
Sept. 21.  Evraz, Severstal Bonds  Evraz Inc. NA Canada plans to sell $650 million of seven-
year bonds to help refinance existing debt of its parent
company, Evraz Group SA, according to two people with knowledge
of the sale. Russia’s second-largest steelmaker last sold
foreign-currency debt in July 2009.  OAO  Severstal , the country’s largest steelmaker, based in
Moscow, said last week executives plan to meet with dollar bond
investors next week for its first international sale since July
2008. Moscow-based VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest lender,
hired banks for its second benchmark dollar bond sale since
February on Sept. 30, according to a banker with knowledge of
the transaction. Alrosa plans its first bond sale in six years
to raise $1 billion in 10-year securities, the Mirny-based
company said in statements in March and August.  “If Russia goes ahead with creating its debt office, this
will definitely be a very positive step,” said  Sergey Dergachev , who helps manage $6 billion of emerging-market debt
at Union Investment in Frankfurt. “It will signal to investors
that there is a good coordination between sovereign issuance
plans, which will be huge in the future, and those of Gazproms
or VTBs.”  ‘Big Impact’  The working group hasn’t yet contacted VTB, the bank’s
press office said by e-mail. Gazprom’s press office declined to
comment and Sberbank’s communications department didn’t respond
to an e-mailed request for comment.  “Alrosa is currently working on cutting its debt, and all
decisions on refinancing are being approved by the board, which
has members representing both federal and regional
governments,”  Andrei Polyakov , a spokesman for the company said
by phone from Moscow today.  The diamond monopoly’s board is chaired by Finance Minister
Kudrin. The company had $3.9 billion of debt as of December
2009, IFC Metropol said Sept.8.  “Historically, foreign borrowing of government companies
had a big impact on Russia’s capital account,” said  Elina Ribakova , a Moscow-based economist at Citigroup Inc. “If we can
avoid this situation in the future, it would be very good for
the country’s economy.”  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 gained, sending the yield
down 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.424 percent,
the lowest since the bonds were sold in April. The yield on the
country’s ruble notes due in August 2016 dropped 1 basis point,
or 0.01 percent, to 7.28 percent, the lowest since Aug. 25.  Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 4 basis points to 231,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 150 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 205 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 46 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps climbed 0.5 basis point to
162 on Sept. 30, according to data provider CMA. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost the
same as the contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels
lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less
on April 20.  ‘Warning Lights’  The ruble gained 0.1 percent to 30.4600 against the dollar
at the 5 p.m. close in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, or
NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of currency
movements and interest rate differentials and allow companies to
hedge against currency movements, showed the ruble at 30.6961 in
three months.  The advisory group may cause concern because of the
potential for the government to meddle in company plans, said
 Neil Shearing , a senior emerging-market analyst at Capital
Economics in London.  “Everything will depend on the implementation,” Shearing
said. “Greater state involvement always starts red warning
lights flashing in this regard.”  The group will focus primarily on monitoring borrowing
plans and won’t affect companies’ ability to manage debt, said
 Nikita Patrakhin , head of corporate finance and investment
banking at ZAO Raiffeisenbank, the Russian unit of Raiffeisen
International Bank Holding AG, said by e-mail today.  Debt Build-Up  “In general, I don’t believe that any working group or
authority could manage companies’ debt more effectively than the
companies themselves, but can help on a regulatory level,”
Patrakhin said.  The commission may play a largely advisory role, said  Peter Szopo , head of research at Alfa Bank, Russia’s biggest lender.  “I do not assume that a working group of this kind could
or should interfere in the daily financial decisions of
companies,” Szopo said. “Whether this group will be able to
prevent the build-up of debt on an aggregate level through, say,
administrative restrictions on corporate debt remains to be
seen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 