-- Teen Girls’ Fat Surgery May Raise Birth Defect Risk, Study Says
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-10-03T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/teen-girls-fat-surgery-may-raise-birth-defect-risk-study-says.html
Teenage girls who’ve undergone
obesity surgery may not absorb enough of a vitamin needed to
have healthy babies, raising the risk of bearing children with
spine and brain birth defects, a study suggests.  While more adolescents are having gastric bypass surgery,
little is known about long-term consequences of the procedure,
said  Diana Farmer , who presented the study today at the  American
Association of Pediatrics  meeting in San Francisco. “The
possibility of future birth defects may outweigh the benefit of
this bariatric procedure” for adolescent girls, said Farmer,
chief of pediatric surgery at  Benioff Children’s Hospital  at the
University of California, San Francisco.  Farmer’s report focuses on two converging trends -- rising
rates of  adolescent obesity  and gastric bypass surgery to combat
it. Since 2001, the number of gastric bypasses and other
bariatric procedures has risen sixfold, with 220,000 of them
done in 2009, according to the  American Society of Metabolic and
Bariatric Surgery  in Gainesville, Florida. About 17 percent of
children and adolescents ages 2 to 19 are obese, according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  “I am not saying the procedure should be ruled out or that
obesity is not a problem,” Farmer said in a telephone interview
Oct. 1. “But no kids are dropping dead at the age of 18 from
obesity.”  Gastric bypass surgery involves sidestepping the upper
intestine, which limits the amount of food a person can consume.
Other bariatric surgery includes gastric banding that restricts
the size of the opening from the esophagus to the stomach.  Vitamin Supplements  Farmer’s report highlights a consequence of gastric bypass
surgery that leads to insufficient absorption of Vitamin B9, or
folic acid, which occurs in the upper intestine. Folate, or
folic acid, is a key element in the prevention of  spina bifida 
and other neural tube defects. Patients who undergo the
procedure are placed on vitamin supplements to counteract the
reduction. Limited research shows adherence to the supplements
by teens is 14 percent, according to Farmer’s presentation.  “You can’t just write off these birth defects because they
are rare,” said  Bruce Wolfe , a Portland, Oregon, surgeon and
president of the bariatric surgery association. “But there are
adverse effects from the obesity as well. So the practical and
ethical dilemma is at what point do you deny a tremendously
beneficial procedure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ; 