-- Egypt's Sawiris, VimpelCom Said to Be Closer on Merger Deal
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2010-10-04T09:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/egypt-s-sawiris-vimpelcom-said-to-be-closer-on-merging-telephone-assets.html
VimpelCom Ltd. , Russia’s second-
largest mobile-phone operator, and Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  may say as early as today that they are closer to
agreement on merging their phone assets, two people familiar
with the matter said.  The two sides have for weeks discussed the transaction to
create a company valued at more than $25 billion. High-ranking
Russian leaders are set to convene in Algeria -- where Sawiris’s
unit is entangled in a tax dispute -- from Oct. 6, which may be
a catalyst for an agreement on a deal, said the people who
declined to comment because the talks are private.  Sawiris would become a significant minority investor in the
new company, which will include his Weather Investments SpA’s 51
percent stake in Egypt’s  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE  and Italian
mobile operator  Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA . The deal would
create an entity with a combined mobile subscriber base of more
than 200 million customers and give VimpelCom access to markets
in Africa and the Middle East.  An announcement may come this week, although there remains
a chance no agreement may be completed, one of the people said.  Yelena Prokhorova , a spokeswoman for VimpelCom in Moscow,
declined to comment as did Manal Abdel-Hamid, a spokeswoman for
Orascom.  Orascom shares were suspended in Egypt pending an
announcement. They closed 3 percent higher to 5.19 Egyptian
pounds on Oct. 3. The company’s global depository receipts rose
as much as 7.3 percent to $4.7 at 10:07 a.m. in London.  Algerian Operations  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  may raise Orascom
Telecom’s tax problems during his visit to Algeria this week,
the publication Kommersant said on Oct. 1. The newspaper said
VimpelCom is sending executives with Medvedev to participate in
a business forum in Algeria.  It is Sawiris’s second attempt this year to sell Orascom
assets, after talks with South Africa’s  MTN Group Ltd . failed in
June. The Algerian government blocked the sale of Orascom’s
local unit, saying it would make an offer for the operations.  Orascom Telecom in September said that its Algerian unit,
Djezzy, received an initial tax reassessment for $230 million
for 2008 and 2009, and it will take legal steps to dispute the
figure.  Wind Italy had net debt of 8.29 billion euros ($11.4
billion) as of June 30 and Orascom Telecom had debt of $4.61
billion at that date.  VimpelCom, with headquarters in Amsterdam and listed in New
York, was formed by Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s  Alfa
Group  and Norway’s  Telenor ASA  to consolidate holdings in
Russian and Ukrainian mobile-phone operators. VimpelCom is 39.6
percent-owned by Telenor while Alfa’s Altimo unit controls 39.2
percent and minority shareholders own 21.2 percent.  Sawiris on Sept. 24 said he’s also talking to other
potential buyers of stakes in his telecommunications assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 