-- Embryo Videos May Enable Doctors to Boost Fertility Treatment Success
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/embryo-movies-may-let-doctors-identify-best-choices-for-successful-implant.html
Video clips of days-old embryos
reveal developing growth that may predict whether they are
likely to lead to pregnancy, making them good choices to implant
in women undergoing fertility treatment, a study found.  A Stanford University team used a tiny microscope with
video to film 242 embryos as they grew. The scientists
identified three criteria that they said may forecast with 93
percent accuracy whether an embryo would reach a stage more
likely to lead to pregnancy.  The technique may improve the success of  in vitro
fertilization , or IVF treatments, which have a two-thirds
failure rate at developing successful pregnancies, according to
the research. That may lessen pressure on fertility doctors to
implant multiple embryos to boost the odds, said  Renee Reijo-
Pera , the Stanford researcher who led the study.  “We hope that through these studies we can reduce adverse
outcomes and improve pregnancy rates,” said Reijo-Pera, in an
Oct. 1 telephone interview. “There shouldn’t be quintuplets and
octuplets,” she said. “We want to transfer the right embryo
earlier and reduce the multiple births and other adverse
outcomes.”  Reijo-Pera and her colleagues published their results today
in the journal  Nature Biotechnology . They also have formed a
closely held company, Auxogyn Inc. in Menlo Park, California,
which aims to market the system to fertility clinics within two
years, said Kevin Loewke, a former researcher in Reijo-Pera’s
lab who now serves as Auxogyn’s engineering program manager.
Auxogyn’s funders include  Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers , the
Menlo Park venture capital firm that was an initial backer of
 Google Inc.   Tiny Microscopes  Loewke and other engineers on the team developed tiny
microscopes that fit inside incubators and worked in low light.  “You don’t want to be taking movies by flashing neon
lights on embryos,” Reijo-Pera said.  The team obtained 242 embryos that had been frozen within
18 hours of being fertilized. They thawed the embryos and filmed
them as they grew, then reviewed the images looking for
patterns. They found that the embryos with the best prospects
developed on a certain schedule.  First, at the earliest stage, a single-celled embryo had
to divide in two within about 15 minutes of starting to split.
Then it had to go from two cells to three within seven to 14
hours and from three cells to four within one hour more. If all
those things happened, Reijo-Pera said, there was a 93 percent
chance the embryo would reach the stage known as a blastocyst,
greatly improving the prospects of a successful pregnancy.  Keeping Embryos Alive  Many fertility clinics now wait until five or six days
after fertilization to see if an embryo makes it to the
blastocyst stage, Loewke said. That means they have to use
chemical solutions to keep the embryo alive in a culture dish
during that time, he said.  Being able to predict which embryos will become blastocysts
would let fertility doctors transplant them sooner, at just two
or three days of age, Loewke said.  “Extended culture is risky for embryos and earlier
transfer is better,” he said. “You don’t want to wait until
day five.”  The research was funded by Stanford and an anonymous donor
and received no federal support, said Reijo-Pera, a researcher
at Stanford’s  Institute for Stem Cell Biology  and Regenerative
Medicine. That’s because current federal law prohibits research
on human embryos that might destroy them, she said.  The Stanford study may give doctors more tools to help
women who want to become pregnant.  “It’s ironic we were not able to use federal funding to
achieve these goals,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 