-- Europe Defeats U.S. 14 1/2 to 13 1/2 to Win Golf's Ryder Cup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-04T17:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/europe-rallies-against-u-s-heading-into-final-day-of-golf-in-ryder-cup.html
Europe defeated the U.S. 14 1/2 to 13
1/2 to regain golf’s Ryder Cup at Celtic Manor in Newport,
Wales.  The event came down to the final match, which Northern
Ireland’s  Graeme McDowell  won over  Hunter Mahan  by three holes
with one to go, or 3-and-1. Supporters rushed the green,
embracing the player when the match ended on the 17th.  “Graeme McDowell was put there for a reason,” Europe
captain  Colin Montgomerie  said. “He’s the U.S. Open champion.
He’s full of confidence and it showed.”  The U.S. started the day down three points after gaining
only a half-point yesterday, and clawed back into a tie as
 Rickie Fowler  birdied his last four holes and  Zach Johnson 
defeated  Padraig Harrington . Europe needed 14 1/2 points to win
back the trophy. The U.S. hasn’t won abroad since 1993, when it
beat Europe 15-13 at The Belfry in Sutton Coldfield, England.  “They came back extremely well,” Montgomerie said of the
U.S. team. “There were some fantastic performances by the
American team. The three-point deficit is why we won.”  McDowell sank a long putt for a birdie on the par-4 16th
hole to go 2 up. He called it “the best putt I’ve hit in my
life.”  “The U.S. Open felt like a back nine with my dad back at
Portrush compared to that,” said the 31-year-old native of that
Northern Ireland town. “I was really nervous. It’s just so much
pressure.”  The putt gave McDowell control, and Mahan conceded on the
17th.  Nothing to Lose  The Americans made it tight with Fowler and Zach Johnson
pushing the team on. Fowler was down three holes with three to
play to Italy’s Edoardo Molinari before his run.  “I was in a position where I had nothing to lose,” Fowler
said.  Johnson beat Ireland’s Harrington 3-and-2.  Tiger Woods  and
 Phil Mickelson  won their singles matches to cut Europe’s lead to
a point.  Woods came back from two holes down to beat Italy’s
Francesco Molinari 4-and-3, and Mickelson defeated  Peter Hanson 
4-and-2.  “We went out strong, with experience,” U.S. captain  Corey Pavin  said. “I wanted experience up front, and experience at
the back, and it nearly worked out.”  Scores  Spain’s  Miguel Angel Jimenez  defeated  Bubba Watson  4-and-3.
Northern Ireland’s  Rory McIlroy  tied  Stewart Cink  to earn a
half-point, and Luke  Donald  defeated Jim  Furyk  by one hole. The
U.S. started the day with victories from  Steve Stricker  and
 Dustin Johnson  to close the gap. American  Jeff Overton  defeated
 Ross Fisher  3-and-2.  Stricker beat England’s  Lee Westwood  2-and-1. Johnson
defeated Germany’s  Martin Kaymer  6-and-4.  Ian Poulter  got
Europe’s first win of the day, beating  Matt Kuchar  5-and-4.  Montgomerie ’s European team won five matches and tied the
sixth yesterday to take control of the event. The Europeans
wiped out a 6-4 American lead going into the final session,
which took place on a fourth day for the first time in the
event’s 83-year history.  “I kept applying the pressure,” Stricker said on Sky
Sports. “With the deficit we have, we all have to come out and
play great golf to have any chance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in Newport, Wales, at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  