-- Fed Bond Buying's Unintended Effect May Boost Rates
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-10-04T14:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/fed-bond-buying-s-unintended-consequences-may-mean-higher-borrowing-rates.html
A second round of bond purchases by
the Federal Reserve may have the unintended consequence of
pushing borrowing costs higher, say a growing number of U.S.
government securities dealers, strategists and economists.  Yields on 10-year  Treasury notes,  a benchmark for
everything from home mortgages to corporate bonds, rose last
month for the first time since March even as the central bank
hinted that it may conduct more so-called quantitative easing to
bolster the economy. The median forecast of more than 60
estimates surveyed by Bloomberg News is for yields to keep
rising the rest of this year and through 2011.  Based on what the Fed bought in 2009, yields are trading as
if it has already acquired an additional $315 billion to $670
billion of securities, according to Deutsche Bank AG, one of the
18 primary dealers that trade with the central bank. Policy
makers will announce plans buy $100 billion to $1 trillion in
Treasuries before the year is out, a survey of 12 of the 18
dealers show. Three don’t expect the Fed to buy additional debt.  “A lot of quantitative easing is already priced into the
market,” said  Joseph Leary,  an interest-rate strategist in New
York at Citigroup Inc. The firm, also a primary dealer,
estimates that purchases of $100 billion per month would push
Treasury yields down about 0.50 percentage point, and that about
half of that is already reflected in prices, he said.  Rising Yields  The  yield  on the benchmark 2.625 percent note due in August
2020 ended last week at 2.51 percent, down from 3.65 percent at
the end of April, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price
rose 27/32, or $8.44 per $1,000 face value, last week to 101.
The rate was 2.48 percent at 10:44 a.m. today in New York.  Yields will climb to 2.58 percent by year-end and to 2.97
percent by July, according to the average forecast of at least
60 contributors in Bloomberg surveys that give a higher
weighting to the more recent estimates.  Based on what happened when the Fed began purchasing $1.725
trillion of government debt and mortgage securities in 2009,
lower yields are not a foregone conclusion. Treasuries lost 3.72
percent last year as a drop in bond prices drove the yield on
the 10-year note to 3.84 percent from 2.22 percent.  “Quantitative easing is priced into the picture,” said
 Sean Simko , who oversees $8 billion at SEI Investments Co. in
Oaks, Pennsylvania. “When the market does turn, as we’ve seen
in the past, it will turn sharply and very swiftly.”  Fed Speculation  Speculation the central bank will decide to purchase
additional bonds as a way to pump money into the economy has
heated up since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and policy makers
said Aug. 10 they would reinvest proceeds from maturing mortgage
holdings into government debt.  Since then, reports have shown the economic recovery may be
faltering. The Labor Department will likely say on Oct. 8 that
the unemployment rate rose to 9.7 percent in September from 9.6
percent in August, according to the median estimate of 62
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We are not out of the woods on the economy front yet,”
said  Mark MacQueen , partner and portfolio manager at Austin,
Texas-based Sage Advisory Services, which oversees $8.5 billion.  Treasuries were little changed on Oct. 1 even though New
York Fed President  William Dudley  said the outlook for job
growth and inflation is “unacceptable,” and that more monetary
easing is probably needed to spur growth and avert deflation.
The Federal Open Market Committee next meets to decide monetary
policy Nov. 2-3.  Dudley’s Prediction  “Further action is likely to be warranted unless the
economic outlook evolves in a way that makes me more confident
that we will see better outcomes for both employment and
inflation before too long,” Dudley, who serves as vice chairman
of the FOMC, said in a speech in New York.  Dudley estimated that $500 billion of purchases would add
as much stimulus as reducing the Fed’s  benchmark rate  0.5
percentage point to 0.75 percentage point, depending on how long
investors expect the Fed to hold the assets. The Fed has kept
the target rate for overnight loans at a record-low range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The first round of quantitative easing lowered the 10-year
yield between 50 and 60 basis points since November 2008, said
 Joseph Gagnon , a former Fed official who is a senior fellow at
the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington. He estimated a second round would “likely be at
least $1 trillion,” and create a smaller market reaction.  ‘More Muted’  With financial markets functioning better now than in early
2009, “my own guess is that further uses of QE would have a
more muted effect,” Fed Bank of Minneapolis President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said in a Sept. 29 speech in London.  Bernanke has succeeded in narrowing the difference in
yields between mortgage securities, which also influence home
loan rates, and Treasuries. The  gap  between the 30-year current
coupon Fannie Mae bond and the benchmark 10-year Treasury shrank
to a 0.83 percentage point on Sept. 27. It averaged 1.23
percentage points in the five years prior to the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 4.37
percent on September 23, according to Freddie Mac, near the 4.32
record low since the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage finance
company began keeping records in 1971.  “The Treasury market looks expensive, but rates for now
have a lid on them with the Fed buying, and you still don’t want
to fight the Fed,” Sage’s MacQueen said.  ‘On the Accelerator’  Investors seem to be betting that low borrowing costs will
lead to faster growth. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  had its
best September in seven decades, climbing 8.8 percent, as
concern eased that the slowdown will lead to a prolonged period
of deflation, or falling prices.  “At these yield levels the value in the fixed income
market resides outside of Treasuries,” said  Jeffrey Schoenfeld ,
partner and chief investment officer in New York at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co., which manages $33 billion in assets.  Investors have been piling into corporate debt to capture
yields that average 2.81 percentage points more than Treasuries,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. That
compares with the average spread of about 2 percentage points in
the five years before credit markets began to seize in mid-2007.  The demand allowed companies to issue $353.6 billion of
bonds last quarter, the most since the first three months of
2009, when they issued $381.1 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Fed’s ‘Goal’  “The goal of quantitative easing is not to get interest
rates to the lowest levels possible, it’s to get the
expectations that rates will remain at these low levels for a
long time to try to change investor behavior and get them
investing in riskier assets,” said  Ira Jersey , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG. The firm,
which is also a primary dealer, is forecasting more purchases.  The central bank’s actions have raised investor
expectations for inflation for 2015 to 2020 -- the so-called
 five-year, five-year forward  rate calculated by the central bank
-- increased to 2.6 percent last week after touching a near two-
year low of 2.17 percent on Aug. 24. The rate, which is based on
trading in Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, averaged 2.6
percent the five years before the financial crisis began.  “The harder the Fed pushes down on the accelerator and
battles deflation through monetary tactics the higher inflation
expectations will be in the future,” Schoenfeld said.  Assets held by the Fed have increased to $2.3 trillion from
less than $1 trillion in September 2008. The cost of living in
the U.S. climbed 0.3 percent in August for a second month as
energy and food prices increased, while other goods and services
showed little change, the Labor Department said Sept. 17.  “This could be the last gasp of the 27-year bull trend in
bonds that began with  Paul Volcker  squashing inflation
expectations,” said  William O’Donnell , head of U.S. government
bond strategy at primary dealer Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in Stamford, Connecticut. The Fed is actively working to
“revive inflation expectations, a book stop to the Volcker era.
At the end of the day, central banks tend to get their way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  