-- Fischer Foreign Currency Purchases Criticized By Finance Ministry Official
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-10-03T12:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/fischer-foreign-currency-purchases-criticized-by-finance-ministry-official.html
Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer ’s policy of buying foreign currency to weaken the shekel
has reached a “dead end” and the central bank should rethink
its strategy, an adviser to the finance minister said.  The policy is costing the government “billions of
shekels” a year, because the bank is borrowing money to pay for
the purchases at a higher interest rate than it is getting on
foreign currency deposits, Avi Simhon, head of Finance Minister
 Yuval Steinitz ’s economic advisory board, said in an interview
on Army Radio today.  “It seems that the policy has reached a dead end,” Simhon
said. “It isn’t possible to go on buying more and more dollars.
There is a loss here, and the loss amounts to billions of
shekels a year.”  Fischer has been purchasing foreign currency since March
2008 in an attempt to curb shekel gains and help an economy that
relies on exports for almost half its gross domestic product.
The central bank has more than doubled foreign currency reserves
since then to $64.1 billion.  Fischer, responding to the criticism, said the central bank
aims to benefit the economy and not create profits. The bank’s
policy helped support exports, leading to a more moderate
recession than in other countries, he said at a press conference
in Jerusalem today.  ‘Very Positive’  “We are not a for-profit bank,” Fischer said. The bank’s
purchases should be weighed “in terms of the benefit to the
behavior of the economy, which was very positive relative to
others.”  “We will continue to take care of the matter as we have
until now; that is, successfully,” Fischer said.  The Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, which Israel joined this year, urged the central
bank in a Jan. 20 report to end the foreign currency purchases.
Fischer said at the time that the buying would cease when global
markets return to normal and there is no longer a large gap
between interest rates in Israel and abroad.  The Bank of Israel on Sept. 27 raised its benchmark
interest rate for a sixth time since the global economy began to
recover, as growth accelerated and housing prices surged,
bringing the rate to 2 percent. In the past three months, the
shekel has strengthened by about 7 percent against the dollar to
3.6348.  Fischer has raised the key  interest rate  by 1.5 percentage
points from a record low, as the economy recovered from the
impact of the worst global recession since the Great Depression.
While inflation has eased from 3.1 percent a year ago to 1.8
percent, below the midpoint of the government’s target range,
home rental prices rose by 6.1 percent in the 12 months through
August.  Economic  growth  accelerated to 4.6 percent in the second
quarter from 3.8 percent in the previous three months. The Bank
of Israel is predicting growth of 4 percent in 2010, and 3.8
percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  