-- LG Electronics Said to Delay Introduction of Tablet Computer
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-10-04T08:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/lg-electronics-said-to-delay-tablet-pc-debut-focus-on-iphone-competition.html
LG Electronics Inc. , the third-
largest mobile-phone maker, will likely delay the unveiling of a
tablet computer until next year to focus on offering handsets
that can rival  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone, an LG official said.  LG will probably introduce the product running on Google
Inc.’s Android operating system at the  Consumer Electronics Show 
in Las Vegas in January, said the official, who asked not to be
identified because the plan hasn’t been announced. While the
hardware is ready, LG is still working on the device’s software,
the official said. The company said in July it planned to sell
its first tablet computer during the fourth quarter.  In the past month, the South Korean electronics maker
replaced its  chief executive officer  and overhauled  management 
after LG’s failure to capture the booming demand for smartphones
led to a record loss at its main handset business. LG aims to
sell 10 million units of Optimus One smartphones before it takes
on Samsung Electronics Co.,  Research In Motion Ltd.  and  Apple’s
iPad  in the tablet market.  “The company may not fully enjoy the expected boom of
tablet computers next year,” said  Im Jeong Jae , a fund manager
in Seoul at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which
oversees $28 billion of assets. “Now is the best time to launch
such a product to become top-tier sellers.”  PlayBook, iPad  LG Electronics  fell 1.4 percent to close at a three-month
low of 95,300 won in Seoul. South Korea’s benchmark  Kospi Index 
rose 0.1 percent.  “LG plans to release tablet computers with an operating
system optimized for the devices,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement in response to queries on the new tablet.  The device, which has yet to be named, sports a display
larger than the seven-inch screen of Samsung’s Galaxy Tab, the
official said. LG is in talks with carriers on pricing, the
person said.  “LG should improve its smartphone and TV businesses
first,” said  Chun Sung Hoon , an analyst at Hana Daetoo
Securities Co. in Seoul.  Research In Motion last month unveiled the BlackBerry
PlayBook tablet computer. The device will be available in the
U.S. in early 2011 and in other countries in the second quarter,
according to the company.  Apple sold 3 million iPads in the first 80 days after the
device’s April debut, eclipsing sales of its iPod music player.  Sales of such tablet computers could reach 16 million units
this year and 35 million in 2011, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
in a report last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 