-- GCC Investments More Attractive Than South Africa, Investec's Power Says
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-10-03T09:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/gcc-investments-more-attractive-than-south-africa-investec-s-power-says.html
Investec Asset Management, a South
African company which manages $70 billion, said the Persian Gulf
is more attractive for equity investments than either South
Africa or Eastern Europe.  “I would put the GCC ahead of South Africa and Eastern
Europe,”  Michael Power , global strategist at Investec Asset
Management, said in a telephone interview from Bahrain today,
referring to the six Gulf Cooperation Council states. A higher
oil price “means there’ll be signs of life in the Gulf
economies so it’s starting to look attractive.”  The  BGCC 200 Index , a weighted index of the top 200
equities in the region, is up 7 percent this year, while the
South African  benchmark stock index  has risen 5.8 percent. Gulf
economies are forging ahead with spending plans with the price
of oil at $82 a barrel, up 3 percent this year.  Investec  Asset Management, an independently managed
subsidiary of the Investec Group, holds more than 50 percent of
its total assets in Africa. It is still more likely to invest in
Latin America and Asia than the Persian Gulf, largely because
the Gulf remains dependent on Western economies, said Power, who
is based in Cape Town. In five years time “this region will be
more closely hitched to the Asian locomotive, making it more
attractive,” he said.  Gulf bonds are not “a particularly good place to put your
money,” as yields are more tempting elsewhere where countries
need the funds, Power said. Investors also need to be more
careful when approaching Persian Gulf investments after Dubai
World, the state-owned holding company, announced it would delay
$26 billion in debt, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 