-- GE, Ford Top Climate List; Buffett’s Berkshire Last
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-10-04T08:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/ge-ford-top-maplecroft-climate-list-buffett-s-berkshire-last.html
General Electric Co. , the world’s
biggest maker of power-generation equipment, led a ranking of
U.S. companies based on their efforts to manage carbon
emissions, fight global warming and profit on climate rules.  GE edged out Ford Motor Co., the second-biggest U.S.
automaker, and Intel Corp., the world’s largest chipmaker, to
take the top spot for a second year on the  Climate Innovation
Index U.S. 100 , according to Maplecroft, the U.K. risk
assessment company that calculates the measure. Billionaire
investor  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. came in last.  Maplecroft rated the 100 largest public companies in the
U.S. on 100 categories including their reduction of greenhouse
gas emissions, use of new technologies, pursuit of climate-
related opportunities and disclosure of environmental policies.  “Climate change is not just about managing risks and
preparing for future regulations on carbon, but is also an
opportunity to cut costs,”  Dan Haglund , climate indexes project
manager at Maplecroft, said in a telephone interview. “The
companies doing the most in this regard will be the future
financial winners.”  Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, with products ranging from
water heaters that cut domestic energy use to fuel-efficient
aircraft engines, was also cited for setting a price on carbon
emissions in some of its contracts.  Berkshire was rated low for its lack of disclosure on
climate-change policies, Maplecroft said. Buffett assistant
 Carrie Kizer  didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Buffett’s Rail Purchase  Buffett’s biggest acquisition, the $27 billion purchase of
railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp., is a bet on the
most efficient and “environmentally friendly” way of moving
goods in the U.S., he told  Charlie Rose  in November. Berkshire’s
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. owns hydroelectric plants in the
U.S. Northwest and wind turbines in Iowa.  Berkshire Hathaway’s Class B shares have risen 26 percent
this year, compared with a 23 percent gain for Ford shares and
an 8 percent increase for General Electric stock. The  Standard &
Poor’s 100 Index  rose 0.6 percent in the period.  Maplecroft surveyed the biggest U.S. companies by market
capitalization as of Aug. 18 to craft the list. A wider ranking
of more than 330 companies with market capitalizations of more
than $1 billion also was headed by GE and Ford. Alcoa Inc., the
largest U.S. aluminum producer, was ranked third on that list.  The risk assessor said it may start exchange-traded funds
based on its  Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index Benchmark .
Constituents are weighted according to their ranking. GE now
constitutes 2.45 percent of the U.S. 100 index,  Ford  accounts
for 2.44 percent, and Intel is 2.22 percent.  ‘No Evidence’  The Climate Innovation Index U.S. 100 gained 1.7 percent
for the nine months ending Sept. 30, compared with a 0.1 percent
gain for the Standard & Poor’s 100 Index, a 3.5 percent rise in
the Dow Jones Industrial Average and a decline of 16 percent in
the WilderHill New Energy Global Innovation Index.  Maplecroft used publicly disclosed information such as
company sustainability reports, and then contacted all companies
with at least two follow-up emails, Haglund said. Berkshire
didn’t respond, Haglund said.  “We found no evidence of any climate-related policies,
management systems, or guidance on innovation promulgated by the
Berkshire Hathaway holding company,” Maplecroft said in an e-
mail. “The active investment strategy adopted by the company
constitutes a great opportunity to influence companies in which
Berkshire invests to respond, positively and proactively, to
changing political and market sentiment around climate change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 