-- Gillard to Meet European Leaders After Afghan Stop on First Foreign Trip
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-10-03T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/gillard-to-meet-european-leaders-after-afghan-stop-on-first-foreign-trip.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is meeting leaders in Europe to discuss the nation’s
role in Afghanistan after visiting troops in that country on her
first overseas trip as leader.  Gillard, 49, meets today with the  North Atlantic Treaty
Organization ’s Secretary-General  Anders Fogh Rasmussen  in
Brussels, to discuss the conflict in Afghanistan, including the
transition to Afghan-led security, according to a statement from
her office yesterday.  Her Labor Party held onto power after losing its majority
in Australia’s Aug. 21 general election after Gillard won the
support of three independent lawmakers and a member of the
Greens Party. The Greens want to bring the Australian troops
home while the opposition Liberal-National coalition supports
Australia’s troop commitment in Afghanistan.  Gillard “confirmed the government’s ongoing commitment to
the mission” yesterday, vowing to keep the 1,550 soldiers in
the country to help fight Taliban militants trying to overthrow
President  Hamid Karzai ’s government. Twenty-one Australian
troops have been killed in Afghanistan since 2002.  The prime minster met with Karzai in Kabul, and General
 David Petraeus , commander of the NATO-led International Security
Assistance Force in Afghanistan. She discussed plans for a
transition to an Afghan-led security responsibility “over the
coming years,” her office said in the statement.  Asia-Europe Meeting  Gillard traveled to Europe to attend the Asia-Europe
Meeting being held in Brussels, which brings together 16 Asian
nations, including Japan and China, and 27 European states,
including Germany and Italy.  “I will be taking the opportunity to discuss our continued
cooperation with NATO partners on Afghanistan,” Gillard said in
a statement on Oct. 1. “This is one of the international
meetings at which, as a nation, we pursue dialogue with the
world about recovery from the global financial crisis.”  Australian opposition leader  Tony Abbott  went to the U.K.
on Oct 1. to meet with Prime Minister  David Cameron  and other
senior ministers, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. said on its
website. Claire Kimball, a spokeswoman for Abbott, wasn’t
available for further comment.  Treasurer and Deputy Prime Minister  Wayne Swan  is acting as
leader, chairing a Cabinet meeting tomorrow as the Reserve Bank
of Australia releases its monetary policy decision at 2:30 p.m.
on the day. Gillard is due to return late tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  