-- Greece's 2011 Budget Seeks Deficit Cut, Return to Bond Markets
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-10-04T00:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/greece-s-2011-budget-seeks-reduction-in-deficit-return-to-bond-markets.html
Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  will reveal today how he plans to offset
lagging revenue growth in his 2011 budget to trim the European
Union’s second-biggest budget gap and allow the country to
resume borrowing in bond markets.  Papaconstantinou presents a proposal that seeks to achieve
the deficit targets he pledged to the European Union in return
for 110 billion euros ($150 billion) of emergency loans needed
to avert default, while not extending the two-year recession. In
the first eight months, revenue rose 3.4 percent, trailing the
13.7 percent pace Greece pledged to secure the EU-led rescue.  “It’s a very challenging budget,” said Nicholas Magginas,
an economist at  National Bank of Greece SA , the country’s
largest lender. “It is increasingly likely that a less
optimistic projection for revenue will be adopted. There will
also be pressure to even that out with more spending cuts, which
is the certain thing.”  Prime Minister  George Papandreou , elected a year ago today,
is trying to show investors that Greece can stay the course of a
deficit-cutting drive that has slashed wages and pensions and
led to street protests. Greece is seeking to return to bond
markets next year after investor concerns that the country would
default on 300 billion euros of debt led to a surge in borrowing
costs and prompted the EU-led rescue.  China a Buyer  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on Oct. 2 that China plans
to buy Greek bonds once Greece begins tapping international
markets for funding again. China will support the country’s
shipping industry, as Greece seeks investment to boost growth
and emerge from a second year of recession, Wen said during a
visit to Athens.  Greek bonds were Europe’s top performers last quarter,
gaining for the first time since the debt crisis began, as the
EU said the government has made a strong start to plans to
reduce the budget gap to 8.1 percent of gross domestic product
this year, from 13.6 percent last year. The EU sees the gap at
7.6 percent next year.  Greek bonds climbed 3.9 percent in the three months through
September, the first quarterly gain since Papandreou’s socialist
Pasok party came to power and revealed the deficit was twice a
previous estimate and four times the EU limit. The revelations
sparked the European debt crisis that hurt bonds of other high-
deficit countries such as Ireland and Portugal and raised
investor concerns about a breakup of Europe’s single currency.  Yield Premium  Investors still demand a yield  premium  of 781 basis points
to lend to Greece rather than Germany for 10 years, the most of
any euro nation.  Under the May aid agreement with the EU and International
Monetary Fund, Papaconstantinou pledged 6.6 billion euros in
extra revenue next year and spending cuts of 2.6 billion euros,
or about 1 percent of GDP, to meet the deficit goals.  The EU and IMF in September said Greece is on track to meet
this year’s deficit target. In the first eight months the
central government’s  shortfall  shrank 32 percent as cuts in
wages, pensions, investment and other expenses helped mask the
lagging revenue, which was hurt by tax evasion and the shrinking
economy.  Papaconstantinou says 2011 income will be bolstered by the
full impact of the revenue-raising measures announced this year
that included higher sales tax and levies on tobacco and alcohol.  Sales Taxes  With the  economy  set to shrink 4 percent this year and 2.6
percent next year, Papaconstantinou doesn’t have a lot of room
to raise taxes. He’s already said he’s reconsidering a plan to
increase sales taxes next year to raise 1 billion euros because
it may hinder growth.  “I wouldn’t risk deepening the recession on further tax
hikes,” said  Diego Iscaro , at IHS Global Insight in London.
“On the spending side, there are many things that should be
done that wouldn’t have an impact on activity.”  Greece succeeding in its campaign to curb tax evasion and
improve collection, may be key to achieving the deficit-
reduction pledges, the IMF said. “The program’s credibility
hinges critically on improving tax compliance,” the IMF said in
a Sept. 14 report.  Greece has long struggled with collecting taxes and
social-security contributions, the largest, permanent source of
revenue. Revenue from taxes is among the lowest in the EU at
32.6 percent of GDP compared with the 39.3 percent average among
the 27 EU nations, according to a 2009 Eurostat report.  ‘No Sense’  “Further pursuit of fiscal adjustment makes no sense
without an effective reduction of tax evasion and the
substantive widening of the country’s tax base,” Alpha Bank SA
said in a report. “Any lack of progress on this front could
endanger the success of the country’s plan to exit the crisis.”  Parliament last week passed a new law to recoup some of the
30 billion euros owed in back taxes by an estimated 1.3 million
Greeks, nearly 10 percent of the population. The new measure
will impose 10-year sentences for under-reporting income tax and
close businesses for 48 hours if they are found to not be
issuing receipts.  “We are in need of every euro that will come from this
measure,” Papaconstantinou said in parliament on Sept. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  