-- India's Dabur Seeks Overseas Purchases as Local Competition Intensifies
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2010-10-04T05:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/india-s-dabur-seeks-overseas-purchases-as-local-competition-intensifies.html
Dabur India Ltd. , a maker of packaged
honey, traditional medicine and hair oil, plans acquisitions
overseas as domestic competition intensifies, Chief Executive
Officer  Sunil Duggal  said.  “We need to now seek avenues of growth outside of India,
because India’s becoming saturated, over-regulated and hugely
competitive with so many players coming in,” Duggal said in an
interview at Ghaziabad, near New Delhi, on Oct. 1. “The
opportunities for growth can be limited here.”  Dabur competes with the local units of multinational
companies such as  Nestle SA ,  Unilever NV  and  Procter & Gamble Co. 
The consumer goods sector in Asia’s third-largest economy is
expected to grow to $33.4 billion by 2015, according to a  report 
by the Indian Brand Equity Foundation.  Dabur , which bought Turkey’s Hobi Kozmetik Group in July,
plans to expand its business in Africa and the Middle East, and
may raise its overseas sales to 35 percent of the total by 2014.
The consumer goods maker derived more than 19 percent of its
revenue from markets outside India in the year ended March 2010.  “Having worked in these countries for 3 to 6 years,
they’ve understood the profile of these countries,” said
 Shirish Pardeshi , an analyst at Anand Rathi Financial Services
Ltd. in Mumbai. “They are experienced, having gone through the
same in the Indian market. Possibly, they can replicate the same
in other countries.”  Dabur  rose 0.5 percent to 109.60 rupees as of 10:12 a.m. in
Mumbai trading. The stock has  climbed  38 percent this year,
compared with an 18 percent gain for the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
Sensitive Index, or Sensex.  Food Inflation  Food inflation in India and rising costs of agricultural
items may lead  Dabur  to increase prices by as much as 5 percent
this year, Duggal said. The country’s food inflation accelerated
to an almost two-month high in the week ended Sept. 18 from a
year earlier. An index measuring wholesale prices of farm
products including lentils, rice and vegetables rose 16.4
percent, a Ministry of Commerce report on Sept. 30 showed.  Dabur  has already raised prices of some of its products by
an average of 2 percent to 3 percent this year, and is
considering further increases this month, Duggal said.  Dabur employs local suppliers and manufacturing in its
foreign markets, which lowers input costs and helps counter the
impact of currency fluctuations, he said.  Marico Ltd. , one of Dabur’s competitors in India and other
countries, is also looking at acquisitions in emerging markets,
 Saugata Gupta , chief executive officer, consumer products,
Marico Ltd. said in an interview on Sept. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  