-- Indonesia May Keep Rate at Record Low as Slower Inflation Justifies Stance
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   M a n i s h   M o d i
-- 2010-10-03T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/indonesia-may-keep-rate-at-record-low-as-slower-inflation-justifies-stance.html
Bank Indonesia, which has said it is
“confident” in the level of its benchmark interest rate, may
refrain from raising borrowing costs as  inflation  slows, betting
higher bank reserve requirements will contain price pressures.  The central bank will leave the reference rate at a record-
low 6.5 percent for a 14th meeting, according to 15 of 16
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. One expects a quarter-
point increase. The monetary policy decision will be announced
in Jakarta tomorrow.  Indonesia’s dependence on domestic demand to boost growth
has kept the central bank from joining its Asian counterparts in
raising interest rates this year to cool prices or prevent asset
bubbles. Consumer prices in Southeast Asia’s biggest economy
rose at a slower pace in September, vindicating policy makers’
view that the faster inflation in previous months was temporary.  “Bank Indonesia has been sounding really dovish and
insisting that underlying inflationary pressures are still not
there,” said  Wellian Wiranto , an HSBC Holdings Plc economist in
Singapore. “If two or three months of upside surprises in
inflation beyond 6 percent didn’t make them move, it’s unlikely
that they will do something now when inflation is slowing.”  The expansion of Indonesia’s $540 billion economy has
spurred  imports  and helped boost profit at companies including
PT Wijaya Karya, a construction company, and PT  Bank CIMB Niaga .
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is targeting annual growth of
6.6 percent on average through the remainder of his term ending
in 2014.  Rupiah Climbs  The rupiah has risen 5.3 percent against the dollar this
year as an accelerating economy and a benchmark rate that’s
higher than those in Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines
lures investors. The  Jakarta Composite Index  has gained 40
percent and closed at a record 3,547.12 on Oct. 1.  Bank Indonesia last month ordered lenders to set aside more
cash as reserves starting in November, a move that may absorb 50
trillion rupiah ($5.6 billion) of excess liquidity. Governor
 Darmin Nasution  said Sept. 6 he wants to avoid increasing
interest rates, counting on lending and reserve rules for banks
to contain inflation and stoke economic growth.  The governor said last week the central bank will keep a
“close watch” on emerging inflationary pressures.  “Going forward in 2011, apart from uncertainties in food
prices, inflationary pressures could also be spurred, partly, by
an increase in demand,” he said in a Sept. 29 speech. “While
taking careful note in those concerns, we are still confident
with the current level of policy rate” at 6.5 percent, he said.  Inflation Cools  Consumer prices rose 5.8 percent last month from a year
earlier, the Central Bureau of Statistics said Oct. 1. That
compared with a 6.44 percent gain in August and was the slowest
pace in three months. The central bank expects inflation to
remain within a target of 4 percent to 6 percent this year, and
the statistics bureau said prices may rise less than 6 percent
in 2010.  Central banks in Taiwan and India are still raising
interest rates while others such as  Malaysia  and South Korea
have paused as they weigh the risks posed by a cooling global
economy. The Asian Development Bank said last week governments
should sustain growth by refraining from tightening fiscal and
monetary policies “too quickly.”  “We expect rates to only go up in January as Bank
Indonesia turns its attention to growth-induced price
pressures,” Wiranto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  