-- Iran Arrests `Nuclear Spies,' Says It Is Able to Fend Off Any Cyberattacks
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-10-03T13:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/iran-arrests-unidentified-nuclear-spies-says-can-fend-off-cyberattacks.html
Iran has total control of its
computer networks and the ability to foil cyberattacks by the
nation’s enemies, Intelligence Minister  Heidar Moslehi  said
yesterday, according to the state-run  Mehr  news agency.  Authorities have arrested a number of “nuclear spies,”
Moslehi said, without providing details, according to the
report.  The intelligence chief spoke days after Iranian officials
confirmed that the Stuxnet computer worm had affected its
computer systems, including personal computers of employees at
the Bushehr nuclear power plant. A worm is a self-replicating
piece of malicious software, or malware, that can damage
computer systems.  Industrial computers that were affected by the worm have
been cleaned and returned to their units, Deputy Industry
Minister Mohsen Hatam said, according to a  report  published
today on state television’s website. Iran said Sept. 26 that the
IP addresses of 30,000 computer systems had been infected.  The malware, which has infected industrial computers in
several countries, may be part of a campaign to disrupt Iranian
nuclear installations, international computer-security
researchers said Sept. 24. Almost 60 percent of the affected
systems are in Iran, according to data from  Symantec Corp. , a
computer-security software maker.  ‘Enemy Spy Services’  “All of the destructive activities perpetrated by the
oppressors in cyberspace will fast be discovered, and ways to
counter them will be implemented,” Moslehi said, according to
Mehr. “The Intelligence Ministry is aware of a series of
activities carried out against the Islamic Republic by enemy spy
services.”  Stuxnet’s programming and ability to hide itself suggest it
may have been designed by a government-sponsored organization in
the U.S. or Israel, said Frank Rieger, technology chief at GSMK,
a manufacturer of encrypted mobile phones.  The United Nations has imposed sanctions on Iran because of
its nuclear program, which the U.S., Israel and their allies
suspect is cover for the development of atomic weapons. Iran
rejects the claim and says it needs the technology to generate
electricity and carry out medical research.  Iran inaugurated its first nuclear-power plant in the
southern province of Bushehr on Aug. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  