-- Iraq Plans to Raise Official Estimate of Crude Reserves, Oil Ministry Says
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-10-03T15:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/iraq-plans-to-raise-official-estimate-of-crude-reserves-oil-ministry-says.html
Iraq’s government will announce
tomorrow that the country’s crude oil reserves are larger than
the current estimate of 115 billion barrels, an oil ministry
spokesman said.  Oil Minister  Hussain Al-Shahristani  will disclose the
revised figure at a news conference in Baghdad,  Asim Jihad  said
in a telephone interview in the capital.  “The new figure will be important and will reflect Iraq’s
true crude oil potential,” Jihad said.  Iraq’s oil reserves currently rank fourth in size after
those of Saudi Arabia, Canada and Iran. Many oil-industry
executives and analysts believe Iraq to have large unexplored
reserves, particularly in the country’s western regions, that it
was unable to detect and quantify during years of conflict and
economic sanctions.  Iraq depends on oil sales for most of the foreign currency
it needs to rebuild and modernize the economy, and the
government is seeking foreign investors to help boost crude
output.  Production has suffered from insurgent attacks since the
U.S.-led invasion of 2003 ousted the regime of  Saddam Hussein .
The resulting interruptions in the flow of oil from northern
Iraq have added to long-standing problems of under-investment
and outdated technology.  In an effort to revitalize the industry, the government
last year awarded 12 development contracts to international oil
companies. It plans a separate bidding round this month to start
exploiting natural-gas reserves.  Iraq produces about 2.4 million barrels of oil a day,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Iraq’s oil output will
increase 4.2 percent by the end of the year, Shahristani said on
Sept. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman 
 Nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 