-- Israel, Palestinians Want Peace Negotiations to Continue, Mitchell Says
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-10-03T16:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/israel-palestinians-want-peace-talks-mitchell-says-seeks-to-bridge-gap.html
U.S. Middle East Envoy  George Mitchell  said he’ll keep trying to bridge a dispute over West
Bank settlements because Israelis and Palestinians agree in
principle on the need to continue direct peace talks.  Mitchell spoke in Cairo today after meeting with Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak  in the wake of yesterday’s threat by the
Palestine Liberation Organization’s Executive Committee to stop
the negotiations with Israel unless it freezes settlement
construction.  “Both the government of Israel and the Palestinian
Authority have asked us to continue these discussions in an
effort to establish the conditions under which they can continue
direct negotiations,” Mitchell said in a statement posted on
the website of the U.S. Embassy in Cairo. “They do not want to
stop the talks.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  allowed a 10-
month partial moratorium on construction in the West Bank to
expire on Sept. 26, resisting international pressure to extend
it. Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has said he
will make his final decision on whether to suspend negotiations
with Israel after meeting foreign ministers from the Arab League
Oct. 8 in Libya.  Mitchell, who conferred with leaders in Doha, Qatar,
yesterday, flew to Jordan for consultations with  King Abdullah II  after leaving Cairo, the Jordanian state news agency Petra
said. Abdullah also met in Amman with Abbas today, it said.  More Talks  Mitchell said he will hold more talks with the Israeli and
Palestinian leaders over the next few days, as well as with
“other leaders in the region, in Europe and elsewhere.”  While advising Abbas to break off talks with Israel if
settlement construction continues, the PLO panel also said he
should continue contacts with U.S. mediators on trying to
resolve the dispute, Palestinian Authority spokesman  Nabil Abu Rudeineh  said.  Netanyahu issued a statement after the PLO meeting
yesterday, urging Abbas to continue the talks, saying they could
lead to a “historic agreement.”  The PLO is an umbrella group for most Palestinian political
factions. It doesn’t include Hamas, the militant Islamic group
that rules the Gaza Strip.  In Gaza, Hamas sent a statement to reporters, praising the
PLO decision to halt the peace talks as “a good step.”  Parliamentary Elections  Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007, ending a partnership
government with Abbas’s Fatah party that began after Hamas won a
majority in Palestinian parliamentary elections the previous
year. The Islamic militant group, which advocates Israel’s
destruction, is considered a terrorist organization by the U.S.,
the European Union and Israel.  The West Bank construction freeze, declared by Netanyahu in
November, in what he said was a bid to bring Palestinians to the
negotiating table, excluded about 3,000 homes as well as some
public buildings.  Israeli building crews began work last week at settlements
including Ariel, Oranit, Tekoa and Adam, according to  Naftali Bennett , director-general of the Yesha Council, which represents
more than 300,000 settlers in the West Bank.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade.  The United Nations says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. President  Barack Obama  has said the settlements
aren’t legitimate.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ola Galal  at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 