-- Israeli Military Court Convicts 2 Soldiers of Using Gaza Child as Shield
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-10-03T17:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/israeli-military-court-convicts-2-soldiers-of-using-gaza-child-as-shield.html
An Israeli military court convicted
two soldiers of forcing a 9-year-old Palestinian boy during
fighting in the Gaza Strip last year to open bags that they
suspected contained explosives.  The two infantry sergeants, who were not identified by
name, were found guilty today on charges of “exceeding
authority to the point of endangering life and health” and
“unsuitable conduct,” according to a copy of the court
decision faxed by the army. Sentencing will take place at a
later date, the army spokesman’s office said, without giving
details.  The incident occurred Jan. 15, 2009, toward the end of
Israel’s three-week military operation that it said was meant to
stop Hamas and other militant Palestinian groups from firing
missiles into Israeli territory.  A United Nations panel led by prosecutor and South African
judge  Richard Goldstone  last year accused Israel and Hamas of
committing war crimes during the Gaza conflict. Israel disputed
the report and the U.S. voted against a UN resolution calling
for further investigation of the alleged war crimes, which
passed the General Assembly.  The two soldiers were searching a basement apartment with
20 people inside and ordered the boy to open two bags that they
suspected of being booby-trapped, according to the court papers.
When he couldn’t open the second, one of the soldiers fired at
the bag while the boy stood nearby, the court said. No
explosives were found.  Military Law  Israeli  military law  forbids soldiers from using civilians
to open bags suspected of containing explosives, the court
noted, adding, “even more so was it forbidden for them to use a
child to open the bag.”  More than 1,100 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were killed in
the Gaza conflict. Gaza is run by Hamas, the militant Islamic
movement that is considered a terrorist organization by Israel,
the U.S. and the European Union.  Israel says its operations in Gaza were a defensive
response to eight years of rocket attacks from Hamas and other
militant groups that killed 24 Israelis. The army said at least
3,000 rockets and mortars were fired into Israel from Gaza in
2008, with more than 450 since the war ended with a cease-fire
on Jan. 18, 2009.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 