-- Japan's Faltering Output Signals Fresh Yen Sales, BOJ Loans: Chart of Day
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   M i n h   B u i
-- 2010-10-03T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/japan-s-faltering-output-signals-fresh-yen-sales-boj-loans-chart-of-day.html
Japanese policy makers may need to
renew efforts to weaken the yen following last month’s
intervention after reports showed business sentiment and
production are likely to decline, Deutsche Securities Inc. said.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the outlook for Bank of Japan
large manufacturer sentiment index and industrial production.
The yen’s rate against the dollar is also shown. Companies
expect pessimists to outnumber optimists in the December Tankan
and manufacturers will probably cut output this month and next,
projections represented by the dotted lines.  Exporter profits are under threat from diminished global
demand growth and the yen’s advance to a 15-year high against
the dollar. The exchange rate has resumed appreciating even
after authorities sold 2.12 trillion yen ($25 billion) of the
currency last month and the central bank bolstered a credit
program on Aug. 30 to arrest its advance.  It’s government policy “to defend the yen or to stop its
surge, so they will probably go into the market again,”  Seiji Adachi , a senior economist at Deutsche Securities in Tokyo.
“Still, it may be difficult to intervene aggressively, so the
focus will likely shift to monetary policy gradually.”  Adachi said the government may sell its currency again
should the yen trade around 82 yen per dollar, close to the
82.88 level that triggered the first intervention in six years
on Sept. 15. The currency traded at 83.33 against the dollar at
5:30 p.m. in Tokyo on Oct. 1.  The BOJ will probably increase its 30-trillion yen ($359
billion) credit program to encourage bank lending and reduce
demand for the yen at its two-day meeting ending tomorrow, 14 of
17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said. The central bank
may have to ease policy further in coming months by buying
government debt should similar measures by the U.S. Federal
Reserve drive the yen higher against the dollar, Adachi said.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
 Minh Bui  in Tokyo at 
 mbui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  