-- Japan Plans to Increase Rare-Earth Imports From Mongolia, Asahi Reports
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2010-10-03T07:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/japan-plans-to-increase-rare-earth-imports-from-mongolia-asahi-reports.html
Japan, the world’s biggest  importer 
of rare earths, plans to buy more of the minerals from Mongolia
to reduce dependence on China, the Asahi newspaper reported.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and his Mongolian counterpart
 Sukhbaatar Batbold  met yesterday in Tokyo and agreed to begin an
effort to locate rare-earth mines, with test drilling to start
in November, the newspaper said, without saying where it got the
information.  Japan depends on China for 90 percent of its rare-earth
supply and aims to cut that proportion to 70 percent, the report
said. China controls more than 95 percent of the global supply
of the minerals, which are used in radar, high-powered magnets,
hard drives in laptop computers, catalytic converters for
vehicles, electric-car batteries and wind turbines.  China imposed a de facto ban on exports of the minerals to
Japan last month, Japanese Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said
Sept. 28, as ties between the two nations soured over the
detention of a Chinese boat captain whose ship collided with two
Japanese Coast Guard vessels in disputed waters.  Chen Rongkai , a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Commerce,
said Sept. 28 the nation didn’t impose any export ban.  China slashed its exports of rare earths to 7,976 metric
tons in the second half of this year from 22,283 tons in the
first half and 28,417 tons a year earlier, according to Japan’s
Trade Ministry. Japanese demand for the minerals was estimated
at 20,518 tons in 2009, down from 32,064 tons in 2008, it said.  Toyota, Honda  China ended the effective ban on rare-earth exports to
Japan late last month when it began accepting customs
applications, the Asahi newspaper  reported  Sept. 29, citing
unidentified Japanese companies.  Japan accounts for 65 percent of Chinese rare-earth exports,
according to a Sept. 24 report by Macquarie Group Ltd. Prices
for the metals have risen this year with surging demand and cuts
to China’s export quotas, affecting automakers such as Toyota
Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co., which require
the elements for vehicle development, Macquarie said.  Japan’s Trade Ministry plans to assist in developing
technologies and alternative materials to reduce or replace
minerals such as cerium, used in polishing glass for hard-disk
drives and as a catalyst to reduce car emissions, the ministry
said Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  