-- Japanese Prime Minister Kan's Approval Drops on China Ship Row, Polls Show
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   K a z u y o   S a w a
-- 2010-10-04T03:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/kan-s-approval-rating-drops-after-chinese-ship-collision-mainichi-says.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
response to a widening rift with China over rival claims to
uninhabited islands has hurt his popularity, giving up most of
the gains won last month after overcoming a leadership challenge.  Kan’s approval rating fell 15 percentage points to 49
percent from last month, a Mainichi newspaper poll published
today  showed . A  similar  survey by the Yomiuri paper put his
support at 53 percent, down from 66 percent last month.  Relations between Asia’s two biggest economies worsened
after a Chinese fishing boat collided with two Japanese  Coast
Guard  vessels, re-igniting a dispute over uninhabited islands in
the East China Sea. The release of the trawler’s captain after
17 days in detention sparked criticism Kan’s administration
caved to China and failed to assuage the Chinese government.  “Public disapproval over the way the Kan administration
handled this is strong; it’s only natural his support would
drop,” said  Minoru Morita , a Tokyo-based political commentator.
“The fact that his support is where it is shows that people
still are disposed toward liking him.”  Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  last week said
someone in the prime minister’s office spoke with local
prosecutors before they released the captain. Opposition
politicians as well as ruling  Democratic Party of Japan 
lawmakers criticized the decision to free him.  Rare Earth Disruption  After the collision, China cut off ministerial talks and
disrupted exports of rare earth metals, materials used in hybrid
cars, laptop computers and weapons system. China last week
released three of four Japanese employees of a construction firm
after arresting them for allegedly videotaping military targets.  More than 70 percent of those polled by Mainichi called
Japan’s response to the situation “insufficient,” and Kan’s
disapproval rating rose to 34 percent from 19 percent. The paper
surveyed 966 people Oct. 2-3. Neither the Mainichi nor the
Yomiuri provided a margin of error.  Kan is in Brussels to attend a conference of leaders from
Asia and the European Union, as is Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao .
The two are not scheduled to meet. Kan last week said he will
use the Asia-Europe summit to explain Japan’s position on the
incident.  Sengoku told reporters today in Tokyo that there was no new
information on the possibility of a Kan-Wen meeting on the
sidelines of the ASEM summit.  Kan’s popularity rose last month after the administration
intervened in the foreign exchange market to weaken Japan’s
currency and he reshuffled his cabinet following his Sept. 14
re-election as head of the DPJ.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
 Kazuyo Sawa  in Tokyo at 
 ksawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  