-- Nakheel Holds Preliminary Talks With Nasdaq Dubai to List Islamic Bonds
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-10-03T12:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/nakheel-holds-preliminary-talks-with-nasdaq-dubai-to-list-islamic-bonds.html
Nakheel PJSC, the developer of palm-
shaped islands off Dubai’s coast, is in preliminary talks with
Nasdaq Dubai to list Islamic bonds and is confident of reaching
an accord with its creditors by the year end, its chairman said.  “We are in the final stages of negotiation and we are
confident we will reach an agreement,”  Ali Rashed Lootah  told
reporters in Dubai today. Lootah said a “good percentage” of
bank creditors have agreed to the company’s plan to alter the
terms on more than $10 billion of debt and contractor claims.  The developer, which appointed an independent consultant to
start evaluating claims by trade creditors, said it paid trade
creditors 3.4 billion dirhams ($930 million) as the company
restarts work on stalled projects across the emirate. Nakheel
plans to pay creditors 40 percent in cash with the rest through
a tradable Islamic bond, known as sukuk.  Dubai World, Nakheel’s parent and one of the emirate’s
three main holding companies, last month said it secured
approval from creditors to change the terms on $24.9 billion of
debt. Nakheel said 85 percent of its creditors have agreed to
the restructuring terms. The company expects to receive
approvals from 95 percent of lenders before the year end.  Nakheel also plans to build community centers in several
developments including the Palm Jumeirah and may build
extensions to the Dragonmart and Ibn Battuta malls as early as
next year, Lootah said, without specifying the amount of retail
space the company is planning to build.  “We have to enhance Nakheel financially and look for new
cash. This is the best option to have fresh cash,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 