-- New York Times to Repay Carlos Slim's $250 Million Loan Three Years Early
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-10-03T20:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/new-york-times-to-repay-carlos-slim-s-250-million-loan-three-years-early.html
New York Times Co. , publisher of the
namesake newspaper, plans to pay back a $250 million loan from
Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim  three years ahead of schedule.  The company intends to repay the loan by January 2012
instead of January 2015, according to  Abbe Serphos , a Times
spokeswoman. The London-based Sunday Telegraph reported the
timing earlier, and said Chief Executive Officer  Janet Robinson 
may seek digital acquisitions once debt levels fall, though she
didn’t name any possibilities.  Robinson said last month that she aims to expand the
digital business to help spur growth. Times Co.’s  sales  have
fallen for three straight years, hurt by increasing competition
from websites and News Corp.’s Wall Street Journal, which
debuted a new New York City local section about five months ago.  Slim spokesman  Arturo Elias  declined to comment.  The shares rose 11 cents to $7.85 in New York Stock
Exchange trading on Oct. 1. They have  dropped  36 percent this
year, compared with a 2.8 percent increase in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Times Co. forecast third-quarter sales that fell short of
some analysts’ projections on Sept. 22. The company, which also
owns the Boston Globe and the International Herald Tribune, said
circulation revenue would drop about 5 percent in the period.  The company borrowed $250 million from Slim’s Banco Inbursa
SA and Inmobiliaria Carso last year, buying time to sell assets
and refinance existing debt. The lenders received six-year notes
with a coupon of more than 14 percent and detachable warrants.
The warrants expire in January 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  