-- New York Yankees, Rays Tied in AL East; Giants, Padres Battle in NL West
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-10-03T06:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/new-york-yankees-rays-tied-in-al-east-giants-padres-battle-in-nl-west.html
The New York Yankees are down to
their final game of the Major League Baseball season to clinch
the American League East division title for home-field advantage
during the playoffs.  The Yankees (95-66) failed to cement their position last
night as they split a doubleheader with the Boston Red Sox,
winning the first game 6-5 in 10 innings and losing the nightcap
7-6 in the 10th. New York is tied for the division lead with the
Tampa Bay Rays, who yesterday beat the Kansas City Royals 4-0.  In the National League, the San Francisco Giants are one
game atop San Diego for the top spot in the West Division, while
the Atlanta Braves and Padres are tied for the wild-card berth.  At Fenway Park in Boston,  Eric Patterson  hit a run-scoring
single to give the Red Sox the win in the 10th inning of the
night game with the Yankees. Earlier in the day,  Brett Gardner 
scored on an error by second baseman  Bill Hall  in the 10th
inning as the Yankees tallied the win to briefly hold a one-game
lead over the Rays.  At AT&T Park in San Francisco, the Padres stopped a ninth
inning rally by the Giants to earn a 4-2 win and the chance for
a spot in the National League playoff race.  The Padres must win today to take the NL West title. The
Giants and the Padres can both gain playoff berths if Atlanta
loses to the Philadelphia Phillies today.  If San Francisco and San Diego clinch postseason roles in
the same ballpark today, it would only be the second time in MLB
history, according to the Elias Sports Bureau, after the Houston
Astros and St. Louis Cardinals in 2001.  The Braves, who lost 7-0 to the Philadelphia Phillies
yesterday at Turner Field in Atlanta, can reach the postseason
for the first time since 2005 with a win and a Padres loss.  The Phillies’ victory put them at 97-64 for the best record
in MLB, a position the Yankees had held for most of the season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  