-- No Stopping Yen as Euro Reaches Parity in Top Markets Forecast
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-10-04T19:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/no-stopping-yen-as-euro-reaches-parity-in-top-markets-forecast.html
The top foreign-exchange forecaster
says the Japanese government’s current approach to reining in
the yen by intervening in currency markets will fail.  “Any attempt to drive the yen lower with intervention is
unlikely to succeed unless it is backed up with much more
aggressive easing measures from the Bank of Japan,” says  Shaun Osborne , 47, chief currency strategist at TD Securities Inc. in
Toronto.  Osborne earned the top spot among foreign-exchange
forecasters for the six quarters ended on June 30, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. He did it by focusing on basics such
as economic fundamentals and historical market relationships, an
approach that allowed him to look beyond the distortions of
short-term swings to correctly predict longer-lasting trends
such as the strengthening of the yen, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its November issue.  “It’s tempting to investigate new methodologies and new
ways of analyzing the markets, but by and large, the tried and
tested ways eventually win out,” says the British-born Osborne.
“While there’s been a lot of uncertainty, we’ve stuck with our
basic views on the markets and haven’t changed them too often.”  Osborne prevailed over rivals at 37 other firms to make TD
Securities the most accurate foreign-exchange predictor across
eight currency pairs. He predicts that the yen will end the year
at 85 per dollar compared with 83.39 of 3:05 p.m. New York time.
The median year-end forecast for the currency pair is 86,
according to Bloomberg data.  Euro Forecast  TD Securities predicts that the  euro  will trade at $1.40 by
year-end, compared with $1.37 today, and drop to $1.20 against
the dollar next year, according to Bloomberg data. His previous
forecast last week was for $1.40 for the euro by year-end and
parity by 2011, Bloomberg data show. The median forecast for the
euro against the dollar is for $1.30 by year-end and $1.28 in
2011, the data show.  “We were quite bearish on the euro, but given the risk of
more quantitative easing coming through we have to recognize the
potential, at least in the short run, for the euro to appreciate
a little more here given the way interest-rate differentials
have moved over the last few months,” Osborne said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television.  Rankings Criteria  Firms participating in the ranking were compared based on
seven criteria: six forecasts at the end of each quarter for the
close of the next, starting in December 2008, plus one annual
estimate, which was made at the end of June 2009 for currency
rates as of June 30, 2010. Only firms with at least four
forecasts for a particular currency pair were ranked for it, and
only those that qualified in at least five of eight pairs were
included in the ranking of best overall predictors.  After TD Securities, Standard Chartered Plc’s forecasts
placed that bank second, Wells Fargo & Co. was third and Credit
Suisse Group AG came in fourth. Osborne at TD Securities was
ranked fourth last year, while eight of 2009’s top 10 performers
didn’t even make this year’s leader board.  Osborne’s call on the direction of the yen catapulted TD
Securities to the top of the ranking. He predicted that the
Japanese currency was set to strengthen against the dollar
starting in mid-2009; the consensus view among analysts was for
it to weaken.  The yen appreciated during the next 12 months, advancing
almost 9 percent against the greenback to reach 88.43 yen per
dollar as of June 30. Osborne had forecast 90 per dollar while
the median estimate was for 104; the prediction helped to make
him the most accurate forecaster of the dollar-yen pair, with an
average margin of error of 2.34 percent.  Top Five  TD Securities was the second-most-accurate euro-yen,
dollar-Swiss franc and euro-Swiss franc forecaster. The firm, a
unit of Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada’s second-largest lender,
placed fifth in the euro-dollar ranking.  The yen gained in value as investors’ worries about global
growth boosted the appeal of the Japanese currency as a haven
and dimmed the allure of yen carry trades, in which investors
sell funds borrowed in yen to buy assets in riskier, higher-
yielding currencies.  “The risk-aversion trend was something we got right,”
says Osborne, who joined TD Securities as chief foreign-exchange
strategist from Toronto-based Scotia Capital Inc. in 2006. His
colleague, foreign exchange strategist  Jacqui Douglas , 30,
assists him in formulating forecasts for the yen and the
currencies of other Group of 10 countries.  Japan Intervention  The yen strengthened to a 15-year intraday best of 82.88
against the dollar on Sept. 15. That prompted Japan to intervene
in exchange markets for the first time since 2004 and sell the
currency as part of efforts to stoke the economy by making the
country’s exports more competitive. Japan sold 2.12 trillion yen
($25 billion) from Aug. 28 through Sept. 28, the Ministry of
Finance said on Sept. 30.  The yen is unlikely to lose much ground even with more
intervention, Osborne says, given the historically narrow gap
between interest rates on U.S. and Japanese bonds.  The  yield  spread between U.S. two-year Treasury notes and
securities of similar maturities in Japan was 27 basis points
today, or 0.27 percentage point. It averaged 3.24 percentage
points from 1990 through late August.  “Since the end of July, U.S. 10-year note yields have
fallen close to 50 basis points and that has had a depressing
effect on the U.S. dollar,” Osborne said in the Bloomberg TV
interview today. “That, combined with the efforts of Japan
trying to push the yen lower, will effectively cancel each other
out.”  Margin of Error  While the best forecasters were more accurate in the latest
ranking than in last year’s, the average margin of error
remained almost twice that of 2006, before the global financial
crisis took hold. TD Securities was 4.10 percent off the mark
across the eight currency pairs compared with 5.62 percent for
last year’s leader, Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, and 2.66
percent for 2006’s top forecaster, HBOS Plc.  “This new world is one of much higher volatility and more-
frequent extremes,” says  Callum Henderson , global head of
foreign-exchange research at Standard Chartered in Singapore.
“The market’s focus has shifted to a significant extent on at
least three occasions from the end of the first quarter 2009 to
the present day.”  More Market Swings  Currency volatility averaged 14.1 percent in the 18-month
period covered by the survey, according to the JPMorgan G7
 Volatility Index . That compares with an average of 8.8 percent
from 2003 through 2007.  Higher volatility has made it harder to trade currencies
profitably in recent years, Osborne says. Foreign-exchange funds
tracked by the  Parker BlackTree Currency Index  are little
changed so far this year, based on the index’s reading of 181.71
in late September compared with 181.44 at the end of last year.
The gauge, which follows 22 funds that manage about $15 billion,
fell 1.7 percent in 2009 after returning a combined 76 percent
during the previous six years, when more-stable markets
benefited such strategies as the carry trade.  The euro’s value against the dollar was the most difficult
currency pair to predict in the 18 months covered by the
ranking. It swung from a near-two-year low in March 2009 to a
15-month high in December 2009 and back to a four-year low in
June 2010 amid the Greek debt crisis.  Euro-Dollar ‘Nightmare’  Nordea Bank AB, the top forecaster for the pair, was 4.88
percent wide of the mark on average, the most for a category
leader in this year’s ranking.  “Trying to call the bottom in March 2009 was a
nightmare,” says  Niels Christensen , chief currency strategist
in Copenhagen at Nordea Bank, Scandinavia’s biggest bank. “You
were looking at all the gauges of risk sentiment, of the crisis
and the shortage of liquidity you could find. It was almost
impossible to quantify.”  Christensen’s team looked at  credit-default swaps  tied to
sovereign debt, which investors use to protect themselves
against a decline in a nation’s creditworthiness, and at bank
bonds for signs that the market was about to turn.  The team called for a stronger euro at the end of the
second quarter of 2009, when the 16-nation currency was trading
at about $1.40. Christensen, 49, who has been studying foreign
exchange for 22 years, predicted that the euro would rise to
$1.50 by Dec. 31, 2009, at a time when the median forecast was
$1.42. The European currency peaked at $1.5144 on Nov. 25, 2009.  Decline and Rebound  After declining against the dollar in the first five months
of 2010 during the Greek crisis, the euro rebounded as investors
switched the focus of their concerns from Europe’s fiscal
deficits to slowing growth in the U.S. Reports showed that
America’s economy added fewer jobs than forecast in June and
July. In August, the  unemployment rate  climbed to 9.6 percent
even as U.S. companies added more jobs than economists expected.  “The U.S. soft patch kind of snuck up on everyone,” says
 Nick Bennenbroek , 39, Wells Fargo’s head of currency strategy,
who has been with the bank since 2007. The euro will end the
year at $1.28 before falling to $1.17 in 2011, according to
Wells Fargo forecasts as of that date.  Nordea Bank forecasts $1.32 and $1.17 for those periods,
while Standard Chartered predicts $1.40 and $1.32.  Lower accuracy hasn’t diminished the importance of
forecasting for clients, says Standard Chartered’s Henderson,
who joined the bank in 2004 after two years at Bank of America
Corp. and four years at Citigroup Inc.  “The purpose may have changed slightly in that in the
past, when we were in the period of what  Alan Greenspan  called
the Great Moderation in terms of volatility, people looked for
forecasts to be pinpoint accurate,” Henderson says.  Today, with that kind of precision harder to attain, he
says, the focus is more on the reasoning behind a particular
currency call. “People are looking first and foremost at the
direction and the rationale,” he says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 