-- No Silver Lining for Democrats in Elections Rout: Albert R. Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2010-10-03T15:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/no-silver-lining-for-democrats-in-elections-rout-albert-r-hunt.html
With a looming sense of a debacle in
the U.S. midterm elections, some Democrats are rationalizing a
silver lining: It may not be a bad thing if Republicans win
control of at least one chamber of Congress on Nov. 2.  Then, the argument goes, the opposition would be
responsible for governing decisions, and their positions --
privatizing Social Security, rolling back health-care benefits
and giving huge  tax cuts  to the wealthiest Americans -- would
backfire.  The Democrats would come roaring back two years later. The
model is President  Bill Clinton ’s re-election in 1996, two years
after Republicans took over Congress.  Those who were there in the mid-1990s have a different
view. “It would be an unmitigated disaster for us,” says Tom O’Donnell, a Democratic political consultant. He was top aide to
Representative Richard Gephardt of  Missouri , the House
Democratic leader in that earlier period, and remembers the
nightmares it caused him.  Few Republicans are worried about the burdens of
responsibility; they relish the prospect, confident they will
win a majority in the House and at least come close in the
Senate.  A majority in the House would give Republicans three potent
weapons; the power to frame the legislative agenda, control over
some important funding decisions (though not entitlements such
as Social Security and Medicare) and the means to subpoena and
investigate the executive branch. Any Democrat who believes this
is benign should call Bill Clinton.  Social Issues  In the House, the majority party decides which bills come
up and which bills don’t. President  Barack Obama ’s priorities
won’t be those of the presumptive Republican speaker of the
House,  John Boehner  of  Ohio . Instead, look for votes on many of
the divisive  social issues , red meat for conservatives, and
enough proposed constitutional amendments to make the founding
father James Madison blush.  When bills come up, it’s the majority party that sets the
ground rules, and determines which amendments or provisions are
germane. If a tax bill is considered, almost a certainty, the
minority party is especially disadvantaged, as amendments
usually aren’t permitted.  Even if they capture the Senate, too, Republicans wouldn’t
be able to fulfill their pledge to repeal the Obama health-care
plan. The president’s veto pen would prevent that. There are
provisions -- including banning insurance companies from
discriminating on the basis of pre-existing conditions or giving
seniors more generous prescription-drug benefits -- that many
Republicans have no interest in repealing.  Health-Care Measure  Still, they can wreak havoc with the measure’s
implementation by denying money for creating insurance exchanges
to help 30 million uninsured Americans get coverage; not funding
the  Department of Health  and Human Services or new enforcement
agents for the  Internal Revenue Service  and nixing complicated
rules and regulations. Senator Mike Enzi, a Wyoming Republican,
with the backing of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, unsuccessfully
sought to dilute some rules last week.  Similarly, it’s a political loser to try to repeal the
financial-regulatory overhaul, a move that would enable  Wall
Street  to go back to the pre-crash days. Some Republicans are
already plotting to deny funding for items such as additional
enforcement staff for the Securities and Exchange Commission and
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulates
derivatives.  Consumer-Protection Agency  A top target will be the new consumer financial protection
agency, which many Republicans opposed. It almost doesn’t matter
if  Elizabeth Warren  is tapped to head the agency; she would be
summoned to  Capitol Hill  so often she wouldn’t have time to run
it.  She would be only one of the more prominent subjects.
“Every member of the administration will be hauled up before
Congress a lot,” says former Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, a South Dakota Democrat.  The power of subpoena is awesome. It was oft-used in the
1990s, especially by Representative Dan Burton, an Indiana
Republican who incessantly investigated the Clinton
administration. A favorite issue was his theory that Vince Foster, the White House counsel who committed suicide, was
murdered. He also released a selectively edited audiotape of a
former Clinton aide who was in prison. This began a downfall
that culminated when he was torn apart in a television interview
with the late Timothy J. Russert.  Issa Investigations  If Republicans take the House, next year’s Dan Burton will
be  Darrell Issa . Smarter than Burton, the California congressman
has the same gotcha goals.  Already in his sights are marginal issues ranging from
whether the White House tried to dissuade a few Democrats from
primary challenges by holding out job offers -- as if that’s
unusual in politics -- to a controversy over whether the Black
Panthers intimidated a few voters in Philadelphia several years
ago.  Issa has insisted he’ll conduct important investigations
even if they lead to Republicans. A good test for him would be
to go see the new documentary, “Tillman,” about the National
Football League star Pat Tillman, who, after Sept. 11, gave up a
multimillion contract to go fight for his country. He was killed
in  Afghanistan  and awarded a Silver Star for bravery, and was
used as a poster child to rally support for the war during
President  George W. Bush ’s 2004 re-election campaign.  Tillman’s Death  The courageous Tillman family, however, insisted on finding
out what actually happened. They discovered that the young Army
Ranger was killed by friendly fire; the family believes that
Pentagon higher-ups, including General Stanley McChrystal and
Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld , lied about it. There’s still
more to find out and it would be a credible and important topic
for the Issa investigative agenda.  As for 2012, Obama’s re-election prospects will depend more
on the shape of the economy and his opponent than on what
congressional Republicans do next year. If, like Clinton in
1996, he gets a robust recovery, House Republican chairmen such
as Issa or the lawmaker who would head the Judiciary Committee,
the immigration-bashing  Lamar Smith  of  Texas , will be
irrelevant.  Finally, those Democrats who see that silver lining in
losing the House and forcing responsibility on the opposition,
should remember that Congress remained in Republican hands in
that 1996 election. Two years later, in a lame-duck session,
that House majority voted to impeach Clinton for lying about
sex.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column: Albert R. Hunt in
Washington at   ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column: Max Berley at
   mberley@bloomberg.net . 