-- Krone `Out of Favor' May Aid Norway Central Bank With Rate Rises
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-10-18T13:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/norway-s-central-bank-likely-to-delay-rate-rises-as-consumer-demand-sags.html
Norway’s central bank may be able to
take advantage of a 5 percent krone loss against the euro since
a May high and resume interest rate increases without hurting
exporters, Deutsche Bank AG said.  “The Norwegian krone seems to have gone out of favor with
foreign investors because of the Norges Bank not hiking rates,”
said  Henrik Gullberg , a London-based currency strategist at the
world’s biggest foreign exchange trader, in a phone interview.
“The fact that there is no real sign of a rapid appreciation in
the krone provides the bank with a good opportunity to edge up
rates very gradually.”  Oslo-based Norges Bank, which last October became the first
in Europe to reverse crisis easing as Norway’s oil wealth helped
propel the economy out of recession, last raised the  overnight
deposit rate  on May 5, bringing it to 2 percent. A month later,
policy makers said they needed to push back tightening plans as
global “turmoil” threatened to hurt exports. That followed an
11 percent surge in the krone versus the euro from a December
low through a May peak.  Though economists at the Nordic region’s biggest bank,
Nordea Bank AB, say policy makers will need to wait until May to
resume tightening, Gullberg says they may raise rates in three
months.  “There is no reason for them to stop their policy
normalization process,” he said. The bank’s next quarter-point
rate increase may come as early as January, though it may opt to
wait as long as March, Gullberg said. Current Governor  Svein Gjedrem  is scheduled to retire at the end of this year.  Government Signals  Norway’s government is also showing fewer signs of concern
that the krone may hurt the country’s export industry, which is
home to Europe’s third-biggest aluminum producer  Norsk Hydro ASA 
and oil-platform maker  Aker Solutions ASA .  Trade and Industry Minister  Trond Giske  said he doesn’t
think krone appreciation is an “imminent risk,” in an Oct. 6
interview. The krone last week gained 0.1 percent against the
euro to 8.1000, according to data available on Bloomberg. That
compares with 7.8033 on May 5, when the bank shelved its rate
rises. The currency traded down 0.7 percent against the euro at
8.1561 at 3:28 p.m. in Oslo.  The yield on Norway’s three-year government bond jumped 3
basis points to 2.31 percent, the highest since Oct. 5,
according to data available on Bloomberg. The yield on the five-
year note rose 5 basis points to 2.51 percent, the highest level
since Oct. 8.  Norway Vs Sweden  The krone has slipped as the  Riksbank , the central bank in
neighboring Sweden, signals it is committed to raising rates.
Norway’s krone lost about 8 percent against Sweden’s krona since
Norges Bank shelved tightening plans in May. In that period, the
Riksbank raised its repo rate twice and has signaled it will
increase the benchmark again this quarter. That’s put the two
currencies on divergent paths.  While the krone and krona in the past “tended to behave
quite the same way as they tend to be very sensitive to the
global growth cycle,” said  David Deddouche , a Paris-based
foreign exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA, in a phone
interview. “Now it is more of an interest-rate story that is
driving both. You have a very hawkish central bank in Sweden and
a very cautious central bank in Norway.”  The Riksbank has lifted borrowing costs twice since July,
bringing the benchmark to 0.75 percent, as policy makers steer
Scandinavia’s largest economy through a recovery that will see
output expand 4.8 percent this year, the government estimates.  Ammunition  “If you get rates to levels that are more normal then
obviously you have some ammunition when and if things take a
turn for the worse again,” Gullberg said. “That is one of the
reasons the Riksbank is now raising rates.”  In the first nine months of the year, Norway sent 11
percent of its total exports to Sweden. Sixty-one percent went
to the European Union and 17 percent went to Asia, according to
Statistics Norway.  “There is sufficient demand in some of Norway’s key export
markets such as Sweden, Germany and Asia,” Gullberg said.
“There is a good case, not just for Norway but for economies
which have been less affected by the global turmoil, that they
should take this window of opportunity and start normalizing
policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  