-- Oil Gain to $85 in 2011 Survey Threatens OPEC on BRIC Demand
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-04T14:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/oil-rising-to-85-in-11-survey-threatens-opec-on-bric-demand.html
Oil may rise to the second-highest
annual level on record next year on demand from China, India and
Brazil, upsetting OPEC and threatening the nascent recovery in
developed countries.  West Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S. benchmark grade,
will average $85 in 2011, compared with $77.70 this year,
according to the median of 23 analyst forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey, the highest price for any year except for $99.75 in
2008. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which correctly predicted a year
ago that oil would reach $85 a barrel by the end of 2009, said
oil’s mean price will be $100 next year.  While China, India and Brazil need fuel to feed their
growing economies, members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries say higher prices aren’t in the group’s
interest and threaten the recovery. The International Monetary
Fund’s No. 2 official,  John Lipsky , said last week that the
global economy’s “sluggishness will persist into 2011.”  “High oil prices have acted as the equivalent of a tax on
consumers,” said  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron Hanover
Inc., a trading-advisory company in New Canaan, Connecticut, who
has followed the oil market for 30 years. “These artificially
high prices lead to a lack of unity and cooperation among OPEC
members.”  Exceeding Targets  OPEC has raised  production  5 percent from a five-year low
in March 2009, and now exceeds its own targets by 1.9 million
barrels a day, about the same amount as  Angola  produces.  Crude oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange has traded
between $64.24 and $87.15 this year. Oil for November delivery
settled at $81.58 a barrel last week and was little changed at
$81.71 as of 10:07 a.m. New York time today. Brent, the European
benchmark blend, ended the week at $83.75 on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was at $83.67 a barrel today.  China’s gross domestic product will grow 8.9 percent in
2011, according to the median of 24 responses in a Bloomberg
News survey. India’s economy will increase 8.8 percent while
Brazil’s will expand 4.5 percent. The four were among the
world’s seven biggest oil-consuming countries last year,
according to BP Plc, Europe’s second-largest oil company.  By contrast, the U.S. economy will expand 2.5 percent next
year, while Europe’s grows 1.4 percent, Bloomberg surveys show.  “There was strong growth in the first half of this year
and growth remains strong, albeit at a slower pace,” said  David Greely , head of energy research at Goldman Sachs in New York,
who projects oil will average $90 in the fourth quarter.  ‘Robust’ Demand  World oil demand will climb 1.3 million barrels a day, or
1.5 percent, to an average 87.9 million next year, the
 International Energy Agency  said in a Sept. 10 report.
Consumption in developing countries outside the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development will increase 1.5 million
barrels, or 3.7 percent, in 2011 to 42.5 million, the IEA said.  “The health of global oil demand is extremely robust and
that’s something we expect to continue into next year,” said
 Amrita Sen , an analyst at Barclays Capital in London, who
projects that WTI will average $80 a barrel this quarter and $85
next year. “Some of those growth rates in China and then the
rest of Asia, Middle East are absolutely phenomenal.”  Brent, used to determine the price of two-thirds of the
world’s oil, also will average $85 a barrel next year, the
survey showed. It will average $80 in the fourth quarter, while
WTI’s mean price will be $79.58.  Crude in the $70-to-$80 range is “as close to perfect as
possible,” Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said in
April.  King Abdullah  has targeted $75 oil as a fair price for
consumers and producers. The kingdom is the biggest oil  producer 
among OPEC’s 12 members.  Production Cut  OPEC implemented a record 4.2 million-barrel-a-day cut in
production in 2008 as  global demand  fell 0.6 percent, the first
decline since 1983, according to the U.S. Energy Department.
Members are adhering to 53 percent of that cut, OPEC Secretary
General  Abdalla El-Badri  said on Sept. 14.  All of the respondents in the Bloomberg survey said OPEC
will leave production targets unchanged when oil ministers meet
next on Oct. 14 at the group’s Vienna headquarters.  “We don’t want to rock the boat and do something that
maybe will have a negative effect on the world economy,” El-
Badri said in an interview from Vienna on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” with  Andrea Catherwood .  Expectations that oil will rise next year aren’t universal.
Petromatrix GmbH, a Zug, Switzerland-based oil-research firm,
says U.S. employers aren’t  hiring  people fast enough to keep
prices higher.  ‘Hard to Sustain’  “Crude prices above $85 a barrel will be hard to
sustain,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of Petromatrix,
wrote in an Oct. 1 report. “We have the Atlantic Basin at 10
percent unemployment, spare capacity in upstream and downstream
and China is not anymore shielded from international oil
prices.”  For Societe Generale SA, France’s second-biggest bank,
prices will be supported as concern abates that the effects of
the U.S. recession and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will
linger.  Mike Wittner , head of oil-market research at Societe
Generale in London, estimates that oil will average $80 this
quarter and $85.21 in 2011.  “The broad moves within the fundamentally bound trading
range have been driven in recent months by swings in risk
appetite,” said Wittner. “The key price drivers for next year
will be fundamental, especially since we don’t see any impact
from investor flows until second half of next year. And even
then it will be moderately bullish.”  ‘Key Indicators’  New York crude traded as high as $87.15 a barrel in early
May, four weeks after hedge funds increased bets that prices
would rise to the highest level in at least four years.  “OPEC spare capacity and inventories should be two key
indicators for pricing,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Washington, who predicts WTI
will average $70 in the fourth quarter and $85 in 2011. “Spare
capacity and inventories are telling me that oil should trade in
the $70-to-$80 range, which is where the Saudis want it.”  As demand grows, OPEC’s  spare production capacity  will
decline, putting upward pressure on prices. The group’s ability
to increase output on short notice has doubled to 5.78 million
barrels since the beginning of the recession in December 2007.  Industry-held stockpiles in the world’s developed economies
rose to 2.785 billion barrels in July. That represents demand of
61.4 days, the highest level since the record reached in August
1998, the IEA said last month.  Total U.S. petroleum supplies ,
including crude and oil products, climbed to 1.14 billion
barrels in the week ended Sept. 17, the most since at least
1990, according to the Energy Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  