-- London Subway Users Face Station, Line Closures as Strike Starts
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2010-10-03T23:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/london-subway-users-face-station-line-closures-as-24-hour-strike-starts.html
London subway travelers face station
closures and line suspensions today as railway workers began a
second strike over safety and staffing levels, disrupting the
travel plans of 3.5 million people.  The 24-hour walkout, one of four scheduled in protest
against 800 planned job cuts, began at 6:29 p.m. U.K. time
yesterday, Geoff Martin, a spokesman for the  Rail, Maritime and
Transport Union , said by telephone. It is likely there will be a
skeleton service “at best” on some underground lines today and
others will be closed, he said.  The industrial action began to affect the underground
network shortly after it began last night. The subway’s
Metropolitan, Circle and Hammersmith & City lines and parts of
the Jubilee and Piccadilly lines were suspended, and there were
severe delays on the Central line, Transport for London said on
its  website .  The stoppage, the fifth to shut  London Underground , or the
Tube, since 2002, involves around 10,000 employees. More than
100 additional buses, capacity for more than 10,000 extra river
crossings and controlled taxi centers have been organized for
the strike period, according to TfL.  During the first 24-hour strike on Sept. 6, Londoners took
to boats, bikes and taxis to get to work. The strike may cost
businesses 48 million pounds ($76 million), according to the
London Chamber of Commerce and Industry.  Negotiations between London Underground and the RMT and the
 Transport Salaried Staffs’ Association  to resolve the dispute
broke down on Sept. 22.  “We will keep as many stations open as possible and will
run as many trains as we safely can,” London Underground
Managing Director  Mike Brown  said in an e-mailed statement to
customers on Oct. 1. Further walkouts are planned for Nov. 2 and
Nov. 28.  In a separate dispute over pay and conditions, almost 200
RMT rail workers in the Tube’s Jubilee and Northern depots will
strike for 24 hours starting at 7 p.m. on Oct. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Martin  in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  