-- Gatwick's Wingate Vows End to Playing `Second Child' to Heathrow
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-10-04T14:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/london-gatwick-ceo-wingate-vows-end-to-playing-second-child-to-heathrow.html
London’s Gatwick airport plans to cut
fees, improve rail links and lure long-haul carriers in a bid to
boost the annual passenger count as much as 40 percent and
better compete with the U.K. capital’s dominant Heathrow hub.  Infrastructure improvements and more competitive rates for
airlines could help lift traffic at Gatwick, already the world’s
busiest single-runway airport, to as many as 45 million people,
Chief Executive Officer  Stewart Wingate  said in an interview.  Global Infrastructure Partners, which bought Gatwick from
 BAA Ltd.  for 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) in 2009, aims to
establish the asset as a London gateway for services that don’t
require onward links, distinguishing it from Heathrow, Europe’s
biggest hub airport. Wingate, who once worked for Heathrow owner
BAA, said Gatwick was held back under the previous regime.  “As the second child in the family you’re in a difficult
situation,” Wingate said. “Gatwick is easily the next-biggest
U.K. airport after Heathrow, but it was never treated half as
well as what is perceived to be the jewel in the BAA crown.”  Gatwick forecasts a passenger total of about 32 million
this year, little changed from 2009, when the airport ranked
eighth-busiest in Europe and No. 31 in the world. Heathrow, with
66 million passengers, was  second globally , behind Atlanta.  Long-Haul Return  Traffic at Gatwick peaked at 35.4 million passengers in
2007, before the global recession. Wingate said numbers will
rise as EasyJet Plc, Gatwick’s largest carrier since  British
Airways Plc  stopped using the airport as a major hub,
reconfigures its fleet toward denser seating and  Ryanair
Holdings Plc  introduces more flights as it reduces services at
BAA’s Stansted base, north of London.  Only 18 percent of takeoffs and landings at Gatwick are
currently for long-haul flights, with 50 percent for short-haul
trips and 32 percent for charter operations.  “We do see long-haul growth returning to Gatwick, and
there’s no reason why that shouldn’t be the case,” the CEO
said. “ Heathrow  is an alliance hub and that’s the majority of
their activity, but there is certainly quite a bit of point-to-
point business to be had on the periphery of that.”  Technological improvements should also permit more aircraft
movements with Gatwick’s sole runway than the current peak of 52
an hour and infrastructure enhancements will also bring in more
long-haul carriers using larger wide-body planes, the CEO said.  Lower Fees  The landing fees charged to airlines will be cut by using a
1 billion-pound funding pot more efficiently and passing on 100
million pounds of savings, Wingate said. Gatwick’s fees are
regulated by the  U.K. Civil Aviation Authority  every five years,
with the permitted tariffs based on the amount invested.  “We’re in the richest catchment in the U.K. by far,” the
CEO said. “You just need to get the balance right between the
quality of the service and the cost of the product and we’re
focused on improving the service we provide for a fair price.”  Global Infrastructure Partners plans to part-fund
construction of a dedicated platform at Gatwick’s railway
station for the sole use of airport trains. Current services are
provided as part of the Southern rail franchise and carriages
are sometimes packed with commuters.  Luggage Checks  Delays that had made Gatwick notorious among travelers have
been addressed via new procedures for hand-luggage checks which
aim to process 95 percent of all outbound passengers within five
minutes. The airport has consistently achieved that goal this
summer, having repeatedly fallen short under BAA, Wingate said.  Security checks at  Gatwick’s South Terminal  will be further
streamlined when a single checkpoint replaces a three-zone
system, with work scheduled to be finished by 2013 being brought
forward for completion before London hosts the 2012 Olympics.  Baggage delays are being combated with the publication next
to carousels of league tables of the best- and worst-performing
airlines to spur help them to lift performance, the CEO said.  Refurbishment of the monorail that runs between Gatwick’s
two terminals was completed in July and a new car park is being
built at the North Terminal.  Wingate said that New York-based Global Infrastructure
Partners, which is backed by  Credit Suisse Group AG  and  General
Electric Co.  and also controls  London City  airport, is likely to
seek another investment partner for Gatwick, with “one more
little parcel of equity sold off.”  The California Public Employees Retirement System, the
largest U.S. public pension, bought a 12.7 percent stake in
Gatwick for 106 million pounds in June, following the sale of
undisclosed holdings to the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and
Korea’s National Pension Service.  BAA sold Gatwick to Global Infrastructure Partners under
pressure from U.K. antitrust regulators in order to reduce the
 Ferrovial SA  unit’s dominance of the U.K. market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  