-- Orban, Free of Electoral Pressure, to Focus on Hungary Budget
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-10-04T11:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/orban-free-of-electoral-pressure-until-2014-to-focus-on-hungary-budget.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
swept local balloting yesterday, freeing him from electoral
pressures until 2014. Now he can turn his attention to budget
concern that has put the country’s credit-rating at risk.  Orban’s Fidesz party captured the Budapest mayor’s office
for the first time, mayoral positions in 22 of the 23 biggest
cities and all 19 county assemblies, according to the  national
election commission . The Socialists, which lost control of the
national government in April, won one major city, Szeged.  “Fidesz now faces a three-year election-free period, logic
dictates that they should carry out all the necessary and
difficult steps,” said  Janos Samu , and economist at Budapest-
based brokerage Concorde Zrt. “They don’t have to worry about
their popularity for at least two years.”  Investors have bet that Orban will move ahead with  budget 
cuts they’ve waited for during four months of battles with the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund.  The forint has gained 5.3 percent against the euro, the
best performance among 25 emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, since Sept. 8, when the Cabinet committed to the 2011
budget-deficit target set in Hungary’s 2008 international
bailout. The currency gained 0.5 percent to 272.30 by 1:30 p.m.
in Budapest, the strongest since Orban took power on May 29.  Orban will have to spell out how he will reach that goal to
sustain the gains.  ‘Will Be Difficult’  “We all know that the difficult part is yet to come and we
need the help of everyone in this country,” Orban said late
yesterday on public television. “It makes no sense to delude
ourselves. It will be difficult.”  Orban won two-thirds of the seats in parliament during
April elections in which he promised to end five years of
austerity and spur economic growth after Hungary’s worst
recession in 18 years.  Domestic politics have put Orban in conflict with investors
since the parliamentary campaign, when he accused his
predecessor of lying about the budget. The government
surrendered to EU pressure on Sept. 8 and accepted the previous
Cabinet’s commitment to reduce the shortfall to less than 3
percent of gross domestic product next year.  “I expect the government will pencil in expenditure-side
measures for 2011, however they seem to want to achieve next
year’s budget target primarily by boosting revenues,”  Gyorgy Barta , an economist at Intesa SanPaolo SpA in Budapest, said by
phone. “And this is exactly what credit rating agencies and the
EU won’t like.”  Credit Rating Threat  The deficit pledge hasn’t removed the threat to Hungary’s
credit rating because the government hasn’t clarified its
economic policies, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors
Service said Sept. 15.  S&P lowered the outlook on Hungary’s BBB- rating to
negative in July and a one-step cut would reduce the grade to
junk for the first time since 1992. Moody’s is also reviewing
Hungary for possible downgrade, though it rates the country
Baa1, two steps higher than S&P.  “The risk of a downgrade by S&P is present, although it’s
mostly a medium-term risk,” Barta said. The structure of the
2011 budget will be “decisive” for the assessment of Hungary’s
economic risk and the nation’s credit rating, he said.  CDS Cost  Credit-default swaps on Hungary’s bonds surged to a one-
year high of 410.24 basis points on June 4 after ruling-party
officials said the previous government had put Hungary at risk
of a Greece-like crisis. The cost of insuring the nation’s debt
fell to 301 basis points today, the lowest since July 21,
according to data provider CMA.  The government raised 65 billion forint at a sale of six-
week Treasury bills today, more than the initially planned 50
billion. Bids totaled 251.3 billion forint, according to results
on the debt management agency’s Bloomberg page.  Hungary will “absolutely, definitely” meet its deficit
targets, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on Oct. 1 after
the government revised the 2009 budget gap figure to 4.4 percent
of GDP from 4 percent.  The wider deficit is “unpleasant, but not scary,”
Matolcsy told reporters last week in Brussels. “It can be
sorted out with higher revenues. We rule out austerity measures.
I’m optimistic about the outcome of the whole budget issue.”  Both Samu and Barta said they expect the government to cut
spending by revamping the public administration and local
council systems.  “If they didn’t plan any measures to cut spending they
wouldn’t have had to be so secretive,” Barta said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  