-- Orban Boosts Power in Hungary Local-Government Election, Faces Budget Test
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-10-03T19:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/orban-boosts-power-in-hungary-local-government-election-faces-budget-test.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s Fidesz party won 22 of 23 races in the country’s biggest
cities, boosting his grip on power and freeing him of electoral
pressures until 2014.  Fidesz captured the Budapest mayoral position for the first
time, the capital’s council and swept the 19 county assemblies,
with more than 80 percent of precincts reporting, according to
the  website  of the national election commission. The Socialists,
ousted from power in April, won one major city, Szeged.  Investors are betting the results will give Orban, 47, the
freedom to unveil the concrete economic policies and  budget  cuts
they’ve waited for during four months of battles with the
European Union and International Monetary Fund that roiled
financial markets.  “The question ‘what next’ hangs powerfully in the air as
markets are still trying to figure out what will happen with the
fiscal commitments of the government and the country’s financing
ability,”  Diana Gesheva , an economist at 4Cast Ltd. in London,
said in a note to clients before the election. “The stakes after
the vote are high and the ball is once again in Orban’s court.”  The forint has gained 4.3 percent against the euro, the
best performance among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
since Sept. 8, when the Cabinet committed to the budget-deficit
target in Hungary’s 2008 international bailout.  CDS, Forint  The Fidesz government, which won two-thirds of the seats in
parliament during April elections, has held off presenting
details of its 2011 budget, which may cut local spending to meet
deficit targets, during the campaign.  Credit-default swaps on Hungary’s bonds surged to a one-
year high of 410.24 basis points on June 4 after ruling-party
officials said the previous government had put Hungary at risk
of a Greece-like crisis. The cost of insuring the nation’s debt
fell to 327.61 basis points yesterday, the lowest in more than
two months, according to data provider CMA.  The forint fell to a record-low against the euro July 19,
when the IMF and EU ended a review of Hungary’s bailout without
endorsing the government’s plan to widen the budget deficit to
stimulate economic growth.  The government surrendered to EU pressure on Sept. 8 and
accepted the previous Cabinet’s commitment to reduce the
shortfall to 3 percent of gross domestic product next year.  Credit Rating Threat  The deficit pledge hasn’t removed the threat to Hungary’s
credit rating because the government hasn’t clarified its
economic policies, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors
Service said Sept. 15.  S&P lowered the outlook on Hungary’s BBB- rating to
negative in July and a one-step cut would reduce the grade to
junk for the first time since 1992. Moody’s is also reviewing
Hungary for possible downgrade, though it rates the country
Baa1, two steps higher than S&P.  Hungary will “absolutely, definitely” meet its deficit
targets, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on Oct. 1 after
the government revised the 2009 budget gap figure to 4.4 percent
of GDP from 4 percent.  The wider deficit is “unpleasant, but not scary,”
Matolcsy told reporters today in Brussels. “It can be sorted
out with higher revenues. We rule out austerity measures. I’m
optimistic about the outcome of the whole budget issue.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  