-- Osborne Says Delaying Cuts Risks U.K. Downgrade, Market Turmoil
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/osborne-says-delaying-cuts-risks-a-u-k-ratings-downgrade-market-turmoil.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will say today the U.K. risks the downgrading of its
top-grade credit rating, market turmoil and rising interest
rates if it delays cuts to public spending.  Osborne will warn the governing Conservative Party’s annual
conference in Birmingham, central England, that anything other
than quick action to tackle the record  budget deficit  would lead
to “economic instability.” He will attack the newly elected
leader of the opposition Labour Party,  Ed Miliband , for arguing
that expenditure cuts should be slower than those the government
has proposed.  The Conservatives and their Liberal Democrat coalition
partners are aiming to make the deepest budget reductions since
World War II. Osborne will outline the scope of the spending
cuts in a statement to lawmakers on Oct. 20.  “Imagine if I were to stand up in the House of Commons in
two weeks time and say: ‘I’m canceling the deficit plan, I agree
with Ed Miliband, let’s delay the tough decisions, let’s borrow
more, let’s go on adding to our debt,” Osborne will say today,
according to extracts released by his office. “Now imagine what
would follow; the market turmoil, the flight of investors, the
dismay of business, the loss of confidence, the credit
downgrade.”  Osborne will say that the government will give priority to
spending that supports growth.  ‘Prosperity for All’  “That means investment in the transport schemes, the
medical research and the communications networks that deliver
the greatest economic benefit,” he will tell Tory delegates,
arguing that the aim is “prosperity for all, not from the quick
fix of another debt bubble; or by hitching the country’s entire
fortunes again to the City of London.”  Before May’s election, Labour promised to cut the budget
deficit in half from 11 percent of gross domestic product in the
fiscal year ended March to 5.2 percent by April 2014. The
coalition government aims to cut the shortfall by two thirds
over the same four-year period to 3.5 percent and reduce it to
1.1 percent by April 2016.  Miliband said at Labour’s conference Sept. 29 that his
party’s pre-election policy is a “good starting point” and
rejected deeper spending reductions even if the economy
improves. He said the coalition’s plan is dangerous and will
harm British society.  ‘Look Again’  “We should always proceed on the basis that we keep
looking to what is happening to our economy, because if there is
a big downturn, and I hope this doesn’t happen, clearly, you
would need to look again at the scale and the pace of deficit
reduction,” Miliband said.  Osborne will say that even Miliband’s elder brother  David ,
whom Ed defeated to lead Labour, agrees with the Tories.  “On one side there is the IMF, the OECD, the credit rating
agencies, the bond markets, the European Commission, the
Confederation of British Industry, the Institute of Directors,
the British Chambers of Commerce, the governor of the Bank of
England, most of British business, two of our great historic
political parties, one of the Miliband brothers,  Tony Blair  and
the British people,” Osborne will say. “On the other side is
Ed Miliband and the trade union leaders.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday that Britain
was pursuing “the right mix of policy” to get its finances and
the economy back to health.”  ‘Relatively Expansionary’  “The right stance was to deal with the deficit -- the
problem facing Britain -- and at the same time that allows the
Bank of England to keep monetary policy and interest rates
relatively expansionary,” Cameron said in a BBC1 television
interview. “We’ve taken Britain out of the danger zone.”  The central bank has kept interest rates at a record low of
0.5 percent, resisting calls since June from one member of its
Monetary Policy Committee,  Andrew Sentance , to raise interest
rates to tame inflation. Another policy maker,  Adam Posen , said
last week the bank should discuss more bond purchases to
stimulate economic growth. In June, the independent Office for
Budget Responsibility lowered its growth forecasts to 1.2
percent this year and 2.3 percent in 2011.  The yield on 10-year U.K. government bonds has fallen to
2.97 percent from 3.8 percent on election day.  Cameron also outlined plans yesterday to replace the
current system of welfare and tax credits, in which people on
low incomes or without jobs can claim different benefits to
cover specific needs, with a single-payment program. He said
money spent now to simplify Britain’s welfare-benefits system
will yield savings in the future.  “One pound out of every three is spent on welfare, so you
have to deal with the extent of welfare dependency in this
country if you’re going to get the budget deficit under
control,” Cameron told the BBC. “It does cost some money up
front, and we are seeking general welfare savings to pay for
it.”  Separately, Cabinet Office Minister  Francis Maude  told the
conference he had made 3 billion pounds ($4.7 billion) in
government efficiency savings this year, including cuts in
advertising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in Birmingham, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 