-- Private Equity `Pass-the-Parcel' Deals Leave Investors in Lurch
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2010-10-04T12:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/private-equity-firms-profit-from-pass-the-parcel-deals-as-investors-fume.html
What happens when a private equity
firm sells a company it owns to another private equity firm?
While the managers of the sale collect a fee and a profit, some
of their investors are concerned the sales will hurt returns.  Cinven Ltd. reaped a 70 percent profit on its investment by
selling German academic publisher  Springer Science+Business
Media GmbH  in December. Danish pension manager ATP, one of the
leveraged buyout firm’s backers, isn’t sure what it’s made.  ATP is also an investor in EQT Partners AB, the Stockholm-
based firm that acquired Springer in a transaction valued at 2.3
billion euros ($3.1 billion). The Copenhagen-based company,
which oversees about 6 billion euros in private equity funds, is
one of a growing number of investors who are, in effect, selling
companies to themselves in so-called secondary buyouts.  “It takes returns away from the investors who are in both
the selling and buying funds,”  Soren Brondum Andersen , a
partner at ATP Private Equity Partners, said in an interview.
“There are significant fees,” he said. “It’s also difficult
to generate 10 times your initial investment the second or third
time” a company is acquired.  Secondaries accounted for a record 46 percent of all
leveraged buyouts in Europe by value this year, according to
London-based research firm  Preqin Ltd.  Dealmakers can net
between 2 percent and 5 percent of the purchase price in fees,
according to Andersen. Based on his estimate, private equity
managers made as much as $1.8 billion in fees from the $35.3
billion of secondary buyouts announced globally this year.  KKR, BC Partners  Firms from New York-based  KKR & Co. LP  to London-based BC
Partners Ltd. are buying companies from one another as they rush
to invest $470 billion of capital they amassed before the credit
crisis cut off the debt financing they rely on to fund their
acquisitions. Firms typically have five to six years to invest
investors’ pledges to their pool. They’re also seeking to sell
assets they were forced to retain as the credit crisis also
brought the pace of initial public offerings to a halt.  Firms have announced 128 secondary LBOs worldwide this year
valued at $35.3 billion, up from $9.9 billion for all of last
year, according to Preqin. Private equity funds raised $57
billion in the third quarter, 16 percent more than in the
previous quarter, when commitments fell to a seven-year low,
according to Preqin.  ‘Still Own The Asset’  In North America, secondaries account for almost a fifth of
all buyouts by value this year, more than twice the level of
three years ago.  “I am concerned this is an increasing trend,” said
 Rhonda Ryan , head of the European private-equity funds group at
Pinebridge Investments, a former unit of insurer American
International Group Inc. that has about $18 billion in the
funds. “Investors don’t necessarily like being on both sides of
those deals because we pay fees and carried interest, and we
still own the asset.”  In cases where investors are in both the selling and the
buying funds, they technically receive a cash distribution from
the first and a call on their undrawn commitments from the
second.  No-one can precisely distinguish the “pass-the-parcel”
deals from the rest, and they are becoming increasingly
prevalent, said  Neil Harper , managing director at Morgan
Stanley’s private equity funds of funds unit in Europe.  ‘Superior Insight’  “You either have a superior insight, specialization, an
angle that helps you pay a little more than the others, or you
nudge the debt package and pay a higher price because you need
to invest,” he said. “The concern is that you have more of the
latter than the former. This will affect returns.”  Firms led 68 secondary buyouts in Europe and 56 in North
America this year, according to Preqin. Secondary deals are more
prevalent in Europe because private equity-backed companies can
go public more easily in the U.S. because of greater investor
demand for those assets and the existence of Nasdaq, which gives
smaller and high-growth companies access to public markets, said
Celine Mechain, who advises private equity firms at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in Paris.  Bridgepoint Capital Ltd., formerly NatWest’s private equity
unit, sold U.K. pet accessories retailer Pets at Home Ltd. to
KKR in January after considering an IPO. The sale valued the
company at 955 million pounds ($1.5 billion), two people with
knowledge of the deal said at the time.  Calpers’ Concern  The California Public Employees’ Retirement System netted
five times its original investment from the deal,  John Greenwood , private equity portfolio manager for Calpers, said in
a telephone interview from Sacramento, California. The U.S.
pension plan is also an investor in KKR’s fund, he said.  “What we’re concerned about is that large buyout firms
aren’t able to deploy capital into large deals and they are
buying into smaller secondary buyouts and paying more than they
should,”  Greenwood  said. “I doubt KKR will be able to deliver
more than one-and-a-half or two times this time.”  In July, TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs’s private equity
unit bought Belgian diaper maker  Ontex NV  for 1.2 billion euros
from Candover Partners Ltd., a British private equity firm. TPG
and Candover share investors including Calpers, the Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board, University of Texas Investment
Management and Swiss asset manager Partners Group, Preqin said.  Returns Similar  CVC Capital Partners Ltd., which acquired U.K. vending
machine operator Autobar Group Ltd. in August, shares investors
including the New York State Common Retirement Fund and New York
State Teachers’ Retirement System with the seller, Charterhouse
Capital Partners, according to Preqin.  “Secondary buyouts are almost of bubble of their own,”
said  Jon Moulton , who helped start the funds that grew into CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. and Permira Advisers LLP, two of Europe’s
biggest private equity firms. “If firms keep selling assets to
one another, how real are their prices? how real are their
returns?”  Overall, returns from secondary buyouts are similar to
primary deals, according to internal research by Pantheon
Ventures, an investor in more than 1,000 private equity funds.
The London-based firm declined to publish details of its
internal study.  “One should differentiate the pass-the-parcel deals, in
which the buyer doesn’t add value, and the transformational
ones, which are producing higher returns,” said  Helen Steers ,
head of Pantheon’s European primary funds group.  Investor Scrutiny  An official at Cinven declined to comment on the Springer
sale. An official at EQT didn’t return calls seeking comment.
Cinven and London-based Candover formed Springer Science in 2003
by combining Kluwer Academic Publishers and BertelsmannSpringer.  EQT said in a December statement it plans to “drive the
transformation” of Springer into “an online scientific,
technical and medical publisher as well as to further expand the
market-leading book publishing business.”  Investors’ are increasingly scrutinizing firms’ secondary
buyouts, Pinebridge’s Ryan said.  “If they don’t perform, investors will not look at the
fund manager favorably when it raises a new fund,” Ryan said.  Some fund managers say they are already taking note.  “I don’t think our industry can create its track record by
selling companies back and forth to each other,” Permira
Advisers LLP co-head  Kurt Bjoerklund  said in a Sept. 29
interview with Bloomberg television. “Ultimately there has to
be an exit, either to public markets or to industrial buyers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  