-- Record Gold, Rising Food Costs May Mean Inflation: Chart of the Day
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-10-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/record-gold-rising-food-costs-may-mean-wave-of-inflation-chart-of-day.html
Record gold prices and rising
agriculture costs may signal a “coming wave” of accelerating
consumer-price inflation, according to brokerage GoldCore Ltd.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows gold, bought by some investors
to hedge against inflation, climbing 20 percent this year to an
all-time high, while the S&P GSCI Agriculture Index last month
surged to a two-year high. Year-over-year gains in U.S. consumer
prices excluding food and fuel remained steady at a 44-year low
of 0.9 percent since April.  The Federal Reserve last month moved closer to a second
wave of unconventional monetary easing, saying that too-low
inflation and sluggish growth would warrant taking action. The
headline U.S. consumer price index will average 1.5 percent in
2011, down from 1.6 percent this year, according to the median
of 55 economists surveyed by Bloomberg last month.  “Burgeoning ‘agflation’ and record gold prices may signal
a coming wave of inflation due to ultra-loose monetary
policies” globally, said  Mark O’Byrne , executive director of
GoldCore in Dublin. The Fed “continues to be worried about low
inflation, but the rising prices seen in agricultural
commodities such as wheat would suggest that they may be looking
in the rear-view mirror and should be more concerned about
inflation, especially in the medium and long term.”  Bullion reached a record $1,320.70 an ounce on Oct. 1 as
investors held about 2,095 metric tons across 10 exchange-traded
products, more than the reserves of Switzerland and China, data
compiled by Bloomberg and the World Gold Council show.  Agriculture prices have gained in part as Russia’s worst
drought in at least five decades slashed local wheat production,
prompting the country to ban grain exports. Sugar has climbed on
speculation that adverse weather will damage crops in Brazil,
the world’s largest producer of the sweetener.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  