-- Rousseff to Face Serra in Brazilian Runoff Vote With No Majority
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o ,   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-10-04T02:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/rousseff-favored-to-be-lula-s-successor-as-brazilians-elect-next-president.html
Brazilian presidential candidate
 Dilma Rousseff  will face  Jose Serra  in a runoff after failing to
capture a majority of votes in today’s first-round election.  Rousseff led in the race to succeed President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva with 46.8 percent after 99.6 percent of the
ballots cast were counted in Brasilia. Former Sao Paulo State
Governor and Health Minister Serra had 32.6 percent. Green Party
candidate  Marina Silva , who was third with 19.4 percent, didn’t
declare her support for any candidate.  Lula’s former cabinet chief, who would be Brazil’s first
female president, has vowed to maintain the social programs and
the  economic growth  that has lifted 21 million people out of
poverty since 2003. A corruption scandal involving members of
her Workers’ Party has cut into her lead in the polls in the
past two weeks, pushing her to an Oct. 31 runoff.  “I will confront the second round with a lot of drive and
energy,” Rousseff told reporters in Brasilia. “I will have the
opportunity to provide more details about my proposals to
eradicate misery and ensure the country’s development with fast
levels of growth.”  Under the 64-year-old Lula’s watch, Latin America’s biggest
economy created 14 million  jobs , the country won its first
investment-grade rating,  inflation  remained within  target  in all
but his first year and the  benchmark interest rate  was cut by
more than half, to 10.75 percent from 25 percent. Economists see
the economy expanding by 7.53 percent this year, the most since
1985, according to a central bank  survey  published Sept. 27.  Economy  Rousseff, who has never run for office before and joined
Lula’s party on the eve of his 2002 victory, was named cabinet
chief in March 2005. She oversaw the government’s Growth
Acceleration Program, a 1.6 trillion reais ($933.1 billion)
infrastructure drive, and a program to build 1 million homes for
the poor.  “Economics just trumps everything else,”  Michael Shifter ,
president of Washington-based Inter-American Dialogue, said in a
phone interview.  Lula, after voting today near Sao Paulo, told reporters
that Rousseff is in a “privileged” position should the race go
to a runoff.  “I only regret that this is the first time I’m voting and
my picture isn’t on the screen,” said Lula, who has been a
presidential candidate in every election since democracy was
restored in 1985.  Congressional Majority  The chance of a second round increased after media
revelations of alleged influence peddling by family members of
 Erenice Guerra , Rousseff’s successor as Lula’s cabinet chief.
Guerra resigned her post to defend herself against the
accusations, which she said were unfounded.  Rousseff’s support in the second round is 51 percent
compared with 37 percent for Serra, an Ibope poll yesterday
commissioned by Globo TV and O Estado de S.Paulo showed.  Lula’s 85 percent approval rating is also boosting allies
running in gubernatorial, Senate and lower house congressional
races. Rousseff’s 10-party coalition should emerge with a
stronger hold on Congress, said  Albert Fishlow , a former deputy
U.S. assistant secretary of state and author of an upcoming book
on Brazil’s economy.  Congressional Gains  Rousseff’s party, known as the PT in Portuguese, could win
as many as 15 seats in the Senate, making it the second-biggest
political force in the 81-seat chamber, according to estimates
by the  Inter-Union Parliamentary Advisory Department , a
Brasilia-based policy group that tracks legislative races.
Currently it’s the fourth-biggest party, with nine senators,
trailing coalition partner Brazilian Democratic Movement Party.  In the  lower house , Rousseff’s allies could increase their
majority to 366 of 512 seats, from 297 today, according to the
Inter-Union Parliamentary Advisory Department. Regional polls by
Datafolha and Ibope suggest that the 10 parties in Rousseff’s
coalition are set to win in at least 14 out of 27 states.  “The PT is close to getting what it has long wanted, which
is kind of a lock on the majority in Congress” said Fishlow.
Such gains will allow her “to rally the troops for important
votes,” he said.  Rousseff, 62, has said little during her campaign about how
she will tackle challenges that include putting a cap on
 spending growth , reducing real interest rates that are the
second-highest in the world and modernizing Brazil’s
infrastructure to ensure faster growth.  Market ‘Complacent’  Still, investors expect she will maintain the outgoing
government’s policies, said  Henry Stipp , who helps manage $98
billion of assets at Threadneedle Asset Management. Since Lula
took office, Brazil’s annual inflation rate has fallen to 4.49
percent in August, from 17.2 percent, while the Bovespa stock
index increased  five-fold.  The real strengthened 110 percent
against the U.S. dollar during the same period, the best-
performance among major currencies in the world.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries  narrowed  to 203 basis points on
Oct. 1 from a nine-month high of 251 on June 8, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index. That compared with the
average 274 basis points for developing nations.  “The market is a little bit complacent, giving the benefit
of the doubt to see what happens when she comes into power,”
Stipp said in a phone interview from London. “The market has
not priced in any risk with Dilma.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  