-- Samar May Win Nobel Prize for Advocacy of Afghan Women's Rights
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-10-03T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/samar-among-favorites-to-win-nobel-prize-for-work-on-afghan-women-s-rights.html
Human rights advocate  Sima Samar  may
become the first person from Afghanistan to win the Nobel Peace
Prize for her efforts to promote women’s health and education,
according to the  International Peace Research Institute .  Samar, 53, is the “top pick,” said Kristian Berg
Harpviken, head of the Oslo-based institute, which ranks
potential winners. This year marks the 10th anniversary of the
United Nation’s Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace
and security and “it’s very likely the committee would like to
use the opportunity to mark the situation of women in war, the
whole gender issue related to conflict,” Berg Harpviken said in
a telephone interview.  Jailed Chinese writer Liu Xiaobo is the favorite to win the
Nobel prize with odds of 3-1 at Dublin-based  Paddy Power Plc .
The Internet betting service ranks Zimbabwean Prime Minister
 Morgan Tsvangirai , 58, as No. 2, along with former Irish
President  Mary Robinson , 66, and Russian human rights activist
Svetlana Gannushkina, all with odds at 8-1.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  unexpectedly won last year for
his efforts to strengthen international diplomacy. Past
laureates include U.S. civil rights leader  Martin Luther King Jr.  and  Mother Theresa , a nun who tended the Calcutta poor. The
prize, along with honors for literature, physics and medicine,
was created by Swedish industrialist  Alfred Nobel  and first
awarded in 1901.  The 10 million-krona ($1.5 million) prize will be announced
by the Norwegian Nobel Committee on Oct. 8. It is the only Nobel
to be awarded from Oslo. The others, including the prize for
economics, founded by Sweden’s central bank in 1968, are
announced from Stockholm.  Opposition Leader  Samar, a doctor who is head of the Afghanistan  Independent
Human Rights Commission , would be the 13th woman to win the
prize, joining laureates such as Myanmar opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi . The odds of Samar winning are 12-1 at Paddy Power,
meaning a $1 bet would win $12. Kenya’s Wangari Maathai, who won
in 2004 for her work to fight poverty in Africa, was the most
recent female winner.  Samar formed Shuhada, a group focused on health care for
Afghan women and also served as the UN  special rapporteur  to
Sudan. After more than a decade in exile, she returned to
 Afghanistan  in 2002 and was appointed Women’s Affairs Minister
in  Hamid Karzai ’s transitional administration.  “We are gradually entering a period in the Afghan context
where negotiations on the Taliban are creeping onto the agenda
and one of the most problematic issues will then be women
rights,” Berg Harpviken said.  Institute’s Record  Though the peace institute didn’t predict Obama’s selection
last year, it correctly picked former U.S. Vice President Al
Gore to win in 2007. It also had the 2005 winners, the
International Atomic Energy Agency and  Mohamed ElBaradei , as
potential candidates.  Of the record 237 nominees this year, 38 are organizations,
according to  Geir Lundestad , director of the Norwegian Nobel
Institute, a body that helps the Committee select winners.  Gannushkina, 68, founded the Citizens Assistance NGO and
the Human Rights Center Memorial, which has worked on defending
the rights of Chechens.  The five-member  Nobel Committee  in Oslo is led by
 Thorbjoern Jagland , who was president of Norway’s parliament
before being named last year as secretary general of the Council
of Europe.  “One could be concerned that the committee might be
careful about giving the prize to a Russian human rights
activist,” said Nils Butenschoen, director for Norway’s Center
for Human Rights in Oslo, in a telephone interview.  Classic Nobel Candidate  China’s Liu, 54, “would of course be a classic Nobel
Peace Prize candidate, in the same vein as  Vaclav Havel  and
other eastern European dissidents from the Cold War,”
Butenschoen said. “If the Committee is completely independent
and wants to give the prize to someone who is clearly deserving
of it, who is in a difficult situation in a country that is
undergoing rapid change, then he would be a worthy choice.”  Former Czech President Havel co-authored a letter published
Sept. 20 in the International Herald Tribune that urged the
Committee to award the prize to Xiaobo. China has warned Norway
against giving the prize to Chinese activists.  Xiaobo was sent to jail by Chinese judicial authorities for
violation of Chinese law, and “I think his acts are in complete
contravention to the purpose of the Nobel Peace Prize,” Foreign
Ministry spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  told reporters on Sept. 28.  Dalai Lama  Lundestad said the committee has shown its autonomy before,
such as when it awarded the prize to the  Dalai Lama  in 1989.  “We’ve had contacts through the years with China and
various Chinese ambassadors have told us about their dislike of
the prize to the Dalai Lama and also warned us against Chinese
dissidents receiving” it,  he said. “We have shown our
independence.”  Prizes for literature, chemistry, medicine and physics are
administered by the Stockholm-based Nobel Foundation. The prize
for medicine will be announced today and the prize for physics
will be disclosed tomorrow. The chemistry honor is scheduled for
Oct. 6 and the literature prize is set for Oct. 7. The Nobel for
economics will be revealed on Oct. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Meera Bhatia  in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net ;
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  