-- Samsung Securities Hires Shvets to Head Asia Research, Lau for Technology
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2010-10-03T23:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/samsung-securities-hires-shvets-to-head-asia-research-lau-for-technology.html
Samsung Securities Co. , the biggest
South Korean brokerage by cash deposited in accounts, hired
 Viktor Shvets  to head its Asia research as it tries to
strengthen regional research.  Shvets previously worked for Nomura International Plc,
where he was co-head of emerging market equity research, Samsung
Securities said in an e-mailed statement today. He will start in
November in Hong Kong, the statement said. Shvets had also
worked for New York-based Moon Capital Management Inc. and
Deutsche Bank AG in New York and Hong Kong.  Samsung Securities has also hired  Warren Lau  as head of its
Asian technology research team from Mirae Asset Securities Co.,
the statement said. In Hong Kong, Lau and five other newly hired
technology analysts, including  Stefan Chang  and  Zona Chen , will
initially cover companies in Hong Kong, China and Taiwan.  Samsung Securities is bolstering regional research as EPFR
Global data shows Asia excluding Japan attracted a net $9.48
billion of inflows in the first nine months of 2010 among
developing-nation equity funds. That compares with a $3.36
billion gain for funds in emerging Europe, Middle East and
Africa and net outflows of $2.18 billion for Latin America.  The South Korean brokerage plans to open offices in
Singapore and Taiwan in the first half of next year, and in
India by 2012, the statement said.  Samsung Securities said in August it hired  Lee Wee Liat  and
 Alan Jin  from Nomura International Hong Kong Ltd. and Patrick
Wong, who worked for Link Management Ltd. from March 2009 to
December, to cover Chinese real-estate companies “amid high
interest by institutional investors” in the sector.  The Hong Kong unit of the South Korean brokerage has hired
45 research staff, according to Seoul-based spokesman Kim Jin
Ho.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  