-- Sony’s ‘Social Network’ Top Movie With $22.4 Million
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2010-10-04T21:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/sony-s-the-social-network-is-top-weekend-movie-with-23-million-in-sales.html
“The Social Network,” a movie
chronicling the rise of Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg ,
opened at No. 1 in U.S. and Canadian theaters, logging $22.4
million in ticket sales for Sony Corp.  Time Warner Inc.’s “Legend of the Guardians: The Owls of
Ga’Hoole” remained in second place with $10.9 million, box-
officer tracker  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  In bringing Facebook to the big screen, Sony had the
challenge of dramatizing events centered around online
activities. Director  David Fincher , whose credits include
“Zodiac” and “Fight Club,” focused on Zuckerberg’s ethical
choices and relationships. The marketing included ads touting
the fictionalized founder as: “Punk, genius, billionaire.”  “It’s a topical drama. It tends to appeal to adults, and
when you have that type of movie, they tend not to have the
biggest opening,”  Brandon Gray , president of Sherman Oaks,
California-based Box Office Mojo, said in an interview.  The movie missed the $26 million estimate of  Gitesh Pandya ,
editor of Box Office Guru.  “The Social Network” follows the origin of Facebook from
its controversial founding, embellishing the known record with
made-up episodes. Jesse Eisenberg, whose previous roles include
“Adventureland” and “Zombieland,” plays Zuckerberg and
 Justin Timberlake  appears as venture capitalist  Sean Parker .  ‘Wall Street’  “Legend of the Guardians: The Owls of Ga’Hoole,” which
finished second, is a 3-D animated movie which features the
voices of  Jim Sturgess  and  Helen Mirren . The movie has generated
$30.1 million in two weeks.  Falling to third place from first last week was “Wall
Street: Money Never Sleeps” with $10 million. The  Oliver Stone -
directed sequel to 1987’s “Wall Street” has brought in $35.8
million for  News Corp. ’s Twentieth Century Fox in two weeks.  Michael Douglas  reprises his Oscar-winning role as
financier Gordon Gekko, who has completed a lengthy prison term.
The movie co-stars  Shia LaBeouf , who plays a young trader in a
tale set amid the 2008 economic meltdown. Ticket sales for
“Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps” fell 47 percent from the
prior week.  “The Town,” dropped to fourth from third with $9.7
million for Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros.  Ben Affleck  stars
and directs the bank robbery thriller, which also features  Jon Hamm , Rebecca Hall and  Jeremy Renner . Receipts total $64.1
million after three weeks.  ‘Case 39’  “Easy A,” Sony’s teen comedy, finished fifth. The movie,
starring Emma Stone as a high school student who fights back
after she is ostracized over rumors of her promiscuity, earned
$6.7 million.  Two horror making their debut this week, “Case 39” from
Viacom Inc.’s Paramount Pictures and Overture Films’ “Let Me
In” failed to crack the top five. “Case 39” had $5.4 million
for seventh place and “Let Me In” earned $5.1 million in
eighth.  Weekend sales for the top 12 films fell 6.3 percent to
$86.2 million from $92 million a year earlier, Hollywood.com
said. Year-to-date receipts total $8.19 billion, up 3.7 percent
from $7.90 billion. Attendance has fallen 1.8 percent this year.  The following table has figures provided by studios to Los
Angeles-based Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are based on
actual ticket sales for Oct. 1-3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 To contact the reporter on this story: Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at jefstathiou@bloomberg.net. 
 Anthony Palazzo  in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  