-- Syria's Assad Says Peace Talks Aim Only at Boosting Obama's Home Support
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-10-03T08:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/syria-s-assad-says-peace-talks-aim-only-at-boosting-obama-s-home-support.html
Direct peace talks between Israelis
and Palestinians have the sole objective of enhancing President
 Barack Obama ’s domestic prestige, Syrian President  Bashar al- Assad  said during a one-day visit to Tehran.  “Nothing has progressed in the Palestinian peace process,
and these talks have no aim but to get support for Obama inside
the U.S.,” Assad said yesterday in a meeting with his Iranian
counterpart Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, according to state-run  Fars 
news agency.  The Israeli-Palestinian negotiations that began Sept. 2 in
Washington are at risk of collapse after Israel allowed a 10-
month partial moratorium on the construction of Jewish
settlements in the West Bank to expire on Sept. 26. The Israeli
government rebuffed international pressure, including a request
from the U.S., its main ally, to extend the moratorium as a way
of keeping Palestinians at the negotiating table.  “The Zionist regime has been exposed,” Ahmadinejad said,
without elaborating, according to the report.  The two countries vowed to increase their political and
economic cooperation, a stance that may irritate the U.S. as it
seeks to improve relations with Syria while at the same time
isolating Iran over the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear program.  “Although important steps have been taken to strengthen
ties between the two countries, there is still a lot of
potential, and this can benefit the two nations and the
region,” Assad was quoted as saying by Fars.  Iran’s highest authority, Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , reinforced this message when he met with the two
presidents yesterday evening.  ‘Axis of Resistance’  “The U.S. will not succeed in abolishing the axis of
resistance in the region,” Khamenei said, according to a report
published late yesterday by the state-run  Mehr  news agency.
“Its effort will be pointless, as it has been before.”  Syria and Iran both support Lebanon’s Shiite Hezbollah
movement. Israel and Hezbollah fought a monthlong war in the
summer of 2006. Much of Hezbollah’s popularity among Arabs and
Muslims more generally stems from its role in helping to force
Israel to withdraw its army from Lebanon in 2000. The U.S. and
Israel consider Hezbollah a terrorist organization.  Assad’s visit preceded a trip that Ahmadinejad plans to
Lebanon later this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  