-- Americans Warned to Be Vigilant in Europe After Terror Threat
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-10-04T19:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/u-s-issues-alert-for-europe-cites-terror-threat-update3-.html
The U.S. warned Americans traveling
in Europe to be vigilant following weeks of discussion within
the Obama administration about threats of an attack by an al-
Qaeda-affiliated terrorist group, officials said.  The advisory isn’t related to threats against the U.S. and
is intended to raise awareness among Americans traveling or
living in Europe , White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said
today.  The alert “is based on information about potential threats
in Europe,” Gibbs said. “We certainly know that al-Qaeda and
its affiliates seek to do us harm” and “we remain vigilant.”  Gibbs and State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said
the government isn’t advising Americans to cancel travel plans.  The State Department issued an alert rather than a higher
level “travel warning” for the continent. A warning would have
cautioned Americans to avoid Europe, their most popular foreign
travel destination, with the potential for a much larger impact
on airlines and hotels. Twelve million Americans traveled to
Europe last year, spending more than $20 billion, according to
Commerce Department data.  Impact on Airlines  “There may be a little dip in bookings, especially on the
leisure side,”  Kevin Mitchell , chairman of the Business Travel
Coalition in Radnor, Pennsylvania, said in an interview after
the alert was issued. “All bets are off if the threat is more
specific or, God forbid, something happens.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index of 11 carriers dropped
2.6 percent at 2:20 p.m. New York time..  The State Department has been monitoring the threats in
Europe for weeks and made the decision to issue the advisory
this weekend based on the “cumulative effect of all types of
information” it had, Undersecretary of State  Patrick Kennedy 
told reporters.  Terrorists often target tourist attractions, subways and
rail systems, and travelers should “take every precaution” to
protect themselves, the alert said. French police have evacuated
the Eiffel Tower in Paris twice in the past three weeks because
of threats.  The U.S. is “not, not, not” advising Americans to delay
or cancel visits to Europe, Kennedy said. Instead they should
take “common-sense precautions,” and also register with the
consular offices in countries they visit. The alert is set to
expire at the end of January.  ‘Business as Usual’  U.S. airlines “are operating their business as usual, with
the same continued security vigilance in the interest of safe
travel,”  David Castelveter , a spokesman for the Air Transport
Association, said in an e-mail. The Washington-based group
represents airlines such as  Delta Air Lines Inc.  and  Southwest
Airlines Co.   While U.S. airlines are continuing normal flight
operations, they likely have stepped up security, and won’t tell
the public about it,  George Hamlin , president of Hamlin
Transportation Consulting in Fairfax, Virginia, said in an
interview.  Status Unknown  “They may be on a higher state of alert, they may be
making more random security checks, they may be even looking
more closely at specific flights, but they aren’t going to tell
us that,” he said.  Canada’s Department of Foreign Affairs said it is “closely
monitoring the situation in Europe,” and urged its citizens to
“be aware of their surroundings.” The United Kingdom upgraded
its terrorism warning for France and Germany.  “As we have consistently made clear, we face a real and
serious threat from terrorism,” British Home Secretary  Theresa May  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Our threat level
remains at severe -- meaning that an attack is highly likely.”  Australian advisories asking citizens to exercise caution
in Germany and France haven’t changed since last month,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Department of
Foreign Affairs and Trade. New Zealand isn’t changing its risk
assessment in light of the U.S. alert, after already cautioning
travelers about the possibility of attacks in France and the
U.K., according to the foreign ministry.  Taiwan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs hasn’t issued a travel
alert for European countries, spokesman James Chang said today.  Coordinated Attacks  Militants based in Pakistan are planning coordinated
attacks in the U.K., France and Germany, prompting the recent
increase in U.S. drone strikes in the region, Sky News reported,
citing U.S. officials it didn’t name. Reports have focused on
attacks similar to the 2008 ones by the Pakistani-based Lashkar-
e-Taiba on a hotel in Mumbai that left 166 people dead.  In the attacks in Mumbai militants armed with grenades and
rifles stormed into the Taj Mahal Palace and Tower hotel and the
Oberoi Trident complex, singling out foreign nationals and
taking hostages in a three-day siege.  Pakistan’s intelligence services are acting on information
from the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency to try to foil any
terrorism plots against Europe, Pakistan’s Ambassador to the
U.S.,  Husain Haqqani , said on CNN’s “State of the Union”
yesterday.  ABC News, citing U.S. and European officials, said the
tipoff came from a German terror suspect held in Afghanistan who
told interrogators that teams of attackers with European
passports have been dispatched.  “Security agencies are investigating closely all
information and are continually monitoring security measures,”
Markus Beyer, a German Interior Ministry spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement.  France sees the U.S. alert as “in line with the general
recommendations we ourselves make to the French population,”
foreign ministry spokesman  Bernard Valero  said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net 
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  