-- Unemployment in U.S. Probably Rose as Recovery Can't Generate Enough Jobs
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   J u l i e   A l n w i c k   a n d   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n   [ ]
-- 2010-10-03T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/unemployment-in-u-s-probably-rose-as-recovery-can-t-generate-enough-jobs.html
The  jobless rate  probably rose in
September for a second month as the year-old U.S. recovery
failed to generate enough jobs to keep up with a growing labor
force, economists said before a report this week.  Unemployment climbed to 9.7 percent from 9.6 percent in
August, according to the  median estimate  of 62 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of an Oct. 8 report from the
Labor Department. The data may also show companies added 77,000
workers to payrolls, and total hiring stagnated amid cuts in
government staffing as the decennial census wound down.  A lack of jobs is restraining  consumer spending , the
biggest part of the economy, and underscores the Federal
Reserve’s concern that the rebound from the worst recession
since the 1930s has been too slow to develop. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg project unemployment will average at least
9 percent through 2011.  The U.S. has “a difficult labor market and mediocre GDP
growth,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s
Economy.com in West Chester, Pennsylvania. “Not enough jobs
will have been created to keep the unemployment rate from
drifting higher.”  A reading as projected means the jobless rate would have
equaled or exceed 9.5 percent for 14 consecutive months,
surpassing the 13-month period from mid 1982 to mid 1983 as the
longest span of elevated joblessness since monthly records began
in 1948.  Less Growth  The forecast gain in payrolls excluding government agencies
would follow an increase of 67,000 in August. Companies had
created an average of 200,000 a month in March and April before
growth weakened. The world’s largest economy grew at a 1.7
percent annual pace in the second quarter compared with 3.7
percent in the first three months of the year and 5 percent at
the end of 2009, according to Commerce Department data.  Some companies are adding workers for the upcoming holiday
season.  Toys ‘R’ Us Inc. , the world’s biggest toy retailer,
plans to hire about 45,000 employees to cope with demand during
the holiday season. The move is “essentially doubling” the
domestic workforce, Wayne, New Jersey-based Toys ‘R’ Us said in
a Sept. 28 statement.  The employment report will be the last before voters go to
the polls in midterm elections that will determine which party
controls Congress. Cooling growth and a sluggish labor market
may feed voter discontent. Polls show the public is increasingly
skeptical of President  Barack Obama ’s performance.  Voter Discontent  Support for Obama has fallen as the unemployment rate has
been slow to retreat. His job approval over a three-day period
that ended Sept. 30 was 46 percent,  compared  with 52 percent at
the same time last year, according to a poll from Princeton, New
Jersey-based Gallup Inc.  The Labor Department on Oct. 8 will also publish its
preliminary estimate for the annual benchmark payroll revisions
to be issued in February. The projected changes, which will
cover the period from April 2009 to March 2010, are based on
state unemployment insurance tax data that cover almost all
employers and update the original figures derived from a
sampling of about 400,000 worksites.  A report on Oct. 5 from the Tempe, Arizona-based Institute
for Supply Management will show that growth at services
industries, which cover almost 90 percent of the economy, picked
up in September after cooling the prior month, according to the
Bloomberg survey. The group’s  index  increased to 52 from 51.5 in
August, the weakest reading in seven months, economists said.
Readings above 50 signal growth.  Factories Cooling  Manufacturing, which last year led the U.S. out of its
worst recession since the 1930s, is showing signs of slowing.
 Orders  placed with U.S. factories dropped 0.4 percent in August,
the third decline in four months, according to the median
estimate of economists ahead of tomorrow’s Commerce Department
report.  An ISM report last week showed manufacturing expanded in
September at the slowest pace in 10 months.  Data from the National Association of Realtors tomorrow may
show  pending home sales , or the number of contracts to purchase
previously owned houses, rose in August for a second consecutive
month, according to the survey median. Housing demand is
hovering near record lows after the expiration of a homebuyer
tax credit, even with cheaper prices and lower borrowing costs. 