-- Wall Street Sees World Economy Decoupling From U.S.
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-10-04T15:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/world-economy-decoupling-from-u-s-in-slowdown-returns-as-wall-street-view.html
Wall Street economists are reviving a
bet that the global economy will withstand the U.S. slowdown.  Just three years since America began dragging the world
into its deepest recession in seven decades, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Credit Suisse Holdings USA Inc. and BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research are forecasting that this time will be
different. Goldman Sachs predicts worldwide growth will slow 0.2
percentage point to 4.6 percent in 2011, even as expansion in
the U.S. falls to 1.8 percent from 2.6 percent.  Underpinning their analysis is the view that international
reliance on  U.S. trade  has diminished and is too small to spread
the lingering effects of America’s  housing bust . Providing the
U.S. pain doesn’t roil financial markets as it did in the credit
crisis, Goldman Sachs expects a weakening dollar, higher bond
yields outside the U.S. and stronger emerging-market equities.  “So long as it doesn’t turn to flu, the world can
withstand a cold from the U.S.,”  Ethan Harris , head of
developed-markets economic research in New York at BofA Merrill
Lynch, said in a telephone interview. He predicts the U.S. will
expand 1.8 percent next year, compared with 3.9 percent
globally.  That may provide comfort for some of the central bankers
and finance ministers from 187 nations flocking to Washington
for annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World
Bank on Oct. 8-10. IMF chief economist  Olivier Blanchard  last
month predicted “positive but low growth in advanced
countries,” while developing nations expand at a “very high”
rate. He will release revised forecasts on Oct. 6.  ‘Partially Decoupled’  “The world has already become partially decoupled,” Nobel
laureate  Joseph Stiglitz , a professor at New York’s Columbia
University, said in a Sept. 20 interview in Zurich. He will
speak at an IMF event this week.  Sixteen months after the world’s largest economy emerged
from recession, the U.S. recovery is losing momentum, with
factory orders falling 0.5 percent in August and unemployment
forecast to increase to 9.7 percent in September from the
previous month’s 9.6 percent, according to the  median estimate 
of 78 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Their predictions don’t include another contraction, with
growth estimated at 2.7 percent this year and some indicators
showing progress. Orders for capital goods rose 5.1 percent in
August and the number of contracts to purchase previously owned
homes increased 4.3 percent; both were higher than forecasts.  China Manufacturing Accelerates  Even so, emerging markets are showing more strength.
Manufacturing in China accelerated for a second consecutive
month in September, and industrial production in India jumped
13.8 percent in July from a year earlier, more than twice the
June pace.  “It seems that recent economic data help to confirm the
story of emerging-markets outperformance,” said  David Lubin ,
chief economist for emerging markets at Citigroup Inc. in
London.  The gap in growth rates between the developing and advanced
worlds is widening, he said. Emerging economies will account for
about 60 percent of global expansion this year and next, up from
about 25 percent a decade ago, according to his estimates.  The main reason for the divergence: “Direct transmission
from a U.S. slowdown to other economies through exports is just
not large enough to spread a U.S. demand problem globally,”
Goldman Sachs economists  Dominic Wilson  and Stacy Carlson wrote
in a Sept. 22 report entitled “If the U.S. sneezes...”  Limited Exposure  Take the so-called BRIC countries of Brazil, Russia, India
and China. While exports account for almost 20 percent of their
gross domestic product, sales to the U.S. compose less than 5
percent of GDP, according to their estimates. That means even if
U.S. growth slowed 2 percent, the drag on these four countries
would be about 0.1 percentage point, the economists reckon.
Developed economies including the U.K., Germany and Japan also
have limited exposure, they said.  Economies outside the U.S. have room to grow that the U.S.
doesn’t, partly because of its outsized slump in  house prices ,
Wilson and Carlson said. The drop of almost 35 percent is more
than twice as large as the worst declines in the rest of the
Group of 10 industrial nations, they found.  The risk to the decoupling wager is a repeat of 2008, when
the U.S. property bubble burst and then morphed into a global
credit and banking shock that ricocheted around the world. For
now, Goldman Sachs’s index of U.S. financial conditions signals
that bond and stock markets aren’t stressed by the U.S. outlook.  Weaker Dollar  The break with the U.S. will be reflected in a weaker
dollar, with the Chinese yuan appreciating to 6.49 per dollar in
a year from 6.685 on Oct. 1, according to Goldman Sachs
forecasts.  The bank is also betting that yields on U.S. 10-year debt
will be lower by June than equivalent yields for Germany, the
U.K., Canada, Australia and Norway. U.S. notes will rise to 2.8
percent from 2.52 percent, Germany’s will increase to 3 percent
from 2.3 percent and Canada’s will grow to 3.8 percent from 2.76
percent on Oct. 1, Goldman Sachs projects.  Goldman Sachs isn’t alone in making the case for
decoupling. Harris at BofA Merrill Lynch said he didn’t buy the
argument prior to the financial crisis. Now he believes global
growth is strong enough to offer a “handkerchief” to the U.S.
as it suffers a “growth recession” of weak expansion and
rising  unemployment , he said.  Giving him confidence is his calculation that the U.S.
share of global GDP has shrunk to about 24 percent from 31
percent in 2000. He also notes that, unlike the U.S., many
countries avoided asset bubbles, kept their banking systems
sound and improved their trade and budget positions.  Economic Locomotives  A  book  published last week by the World Bank backs him up.
“The Day After Tomorrow” concludes that developing nations
aren’t only decoupling, they also are undergoing a
“switchover” that will make them such locomotives for the
world economy, they can help rescue advanced nations. Among the
reasons for the revolution are greater trade between emerging
markets, the rise of the middle class and higher commodity
prices, the book said.  Investors are signaling they agree. The U.S. has fallen
behind Brazil, China and India as the preferred place to invest,
according to a quarterly survey conducted last month of 1,408
investors, analysts and traders who subscribe to Bloomberg.
Emerging markets also attracted more money from share offerings
than industrialized nations last quarter for the first time in
at least a decade, Bloomberg data show.  Room to Ease  Indonesia, India, China and Poland are the developing
economies least vulnerable to a U.S. slowdown, according to a
Sept. 14 study based on trade ties by HSBC Holdings Plc
economists. China, Russia and Brazil also are among  nations  with
more room than industrial countries to ease policies if a U.S.
slowdown does weigh on their growth, according to a policy-
flexibility index designed by the economists, who include New
York-based  Pablo Goldberg .  “Emerging economies kept their powder relatively dry, and
are, for the most part, in a position where they could act
countercyclically if needed,” the HSBC group said.  Links to developing countries are helping insulate some
companies against U.S. weakness. Swiss watch manufacturer  Swatch
Group AG  and tire maker  Nokian Renkaat  of Finland are among the
European businesses that should benefit from trade with nations
such as Russia and China where consumer demand is growing,
according to BlackRock Inc. portfolio manager  Alister Hibbert .  “There’s a lot of life in the global economy,” Hibbert,
said at a Sept. 8 presentation to reporters in London.  Asset Bubbles  The increasing focus on emerging markets may present
challenges for their policy makers as the flow of money into
their economies risks fanning inflation, asset bubbles and
currency appreciation. Countries from South Korea to Thailand
have already intervened to weaken their currencies, along with
taking steps to restrict capital inflows.  Stephen Roach , nonexecutive Asia chairman for Morgan
Stanley, remains skeptical of decoupling. He links the optimism
to a snapback in global trade from a record 11 percent slide in
2009. As that fades amid sluggish demand from advanced
economies, emerging markets that rely on exports for strength
will “face renewed and formidable headwinds,” he said.  “Decoupling is still a dream in much of the developing
world,” said Roach, who also teaches at Yale University in New
Haven, Connecticut.  ‘Year of Recoupling’  The Goldman Sachs economists argue history is on their side.
The U.K., Australia and Canada all continued growing amid the
U.S. recession of 2001 as the  technology-stock bust  passed them
by, while America’s 2006-2007 housing slowdown inflicted little
pain outside its borders, they said. The shift came when the
latter morphed into a financial crisis, prompting Goldman Sachs
to declare in December 2007 that 2008 would be the “year of
recoupling.”  The argument finds favor with  Neal Soss , New York-based
chief economist at Credit Suisse. While the supply of dollars
and letters of credit that fuel international commerce dried up
during the turmoil, that isn’t a problem now, so the rest of the
world can cope with a weaker U.S., he said.  “Decoupling was a good idea then and is a good idea now,”
Soss said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  