-- Yankees Get Wild Card With Loss, Braves Stay Alive for Playoffs
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-04T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/yankees-settle-for-al-s-wild-card-playoff-berth-braves-win-stay-alive.html
The New York Yankees will defend
their World Series championship as a wild-card entry while the
San Francisco Giants and Atlanta Braves claimed the final two
spots in Major League Baseball’s playoffs.  The Yankees finished the regular season yesterday with an
8-4 loss to the Boston Red Sox and the Tampa Bay Rays beat the
Kansas City Royals 3-2 in 12 innings.  The Yankees finished one game behind the Rays in the
American League East and get the wild card for having the best
record among the AL’s second-place teams. The Yankees (95-67)
will open the postseason in Minnesota in two days against the
AL Central-champion Twins.  Baseball’s first-round series are best-of-five matchups.  “No matter who you face, in a short series, it can be
dangerous,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said yesterday at a
news conference. “Minnesota is a tough club. They’ve played
extremely well this year; they’ve played as well as anyone in
the second half. We’ve got our work cut out for us.”  The Yankees beat the Twins in the AL Division Series in
2003, 2004 and 2009. New York swept last year’s playoff series
and was 4-2 against Minnesota (94-68) this season.  “It really doesn’t make a difference,” Yankees shortstop
 Derek Jeter  told reporters. “They’ll be ready to play. I say
it every year, it seems like: previous years mean nothing, and
the regular season means nothing.”  Rays vs Rangers  Tampa Bay (96-66) will open the  playoffs  at home on Oct. 6
against the AL West-champion Texas Rangers. The Rays had a 4-2
record against the Rangers during the regular season.  “We knew it was going to be Tampa or New York, but now we
know it’s Tampa, so it should be a good series,” said Cliff
Lee, who will pitch Game 1 for the Rangers. “We’re not going
to play any slouches from here on out. It’s the real deal.”  In the National League playoffs, the Philadelphia Phillies
will meet the Cincinnati Reds and the San Francisco Giants face
the Atlanta Braves.  The Giants beat San Diego 3-0 yesterday to win the NL
Western Division title and end the Padres’ playoff chances.  San Francisco (92-70) finished two games ahead of the
Padres to clinch its first postseason berth since 2003. A win
by San Diego (90-72) would have forced a one-game playoff
against San Francisco for the NL West title.  The Padres’ loss also means that Atlanta landed the NL’s
wild card playoff spot.  The Braves beat the Phillies 8-7 yesterday to finish with
a 91-71 record, one game better than San Diego among the NL’s
three division runner-ups.  The Phillies, who had a major league-best 97-65 record,
host the NL Central-champion Reds on Oct. 6. The Giants will
open the playoffs at home the next day against the Braves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net  