-- Yankees Scoop Biggest Market Share in 10 Years: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-04T16:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-03/yankees-scoop-biggest-market-share-in-10-years-credit-markets.html
Foreign borrowers are claiming the
biggest share of the U.S. corporate bond market in at least a
decade, taking advantage of record investor demand for dollar-
denominated debt.  The issuers, known as Yankee borrowers, account for 43
percent of sales this year, compared with 37 percent in 2009 and
an average 23 percent from 1999 to 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s biggest
company by market value, plans to sell at least $1 billion of
bonds in its first benchmark offering in dollars.  While borrowers worldwide are enticed by record-low
borrowing costs as the Federal Reserve maintains a target
interest rate of zero to 0.25 percent, investors are drawn to
company bonds from America for returns beating those on stocks
and government debt. U.S. bond mutual funds took in $46.3
billion more in the first nine months of 2010 than in the same
period last year, compared with a rise of $4.9 billion in
Europe, according to data from research firm EPFR Global.  “There’s just huge demand, deals can be packaged up and
done in a heartbeat,” said  Mirko Mikelic , a money manager for
Fifth Third Asset Management in Grand Rapids, Michigan who helps
oversee $13 billion of fixed-income assets. “With the Fed
bringing rates down and keeping the short-end tied close to
zero, it’s a great time for anybody to issue in U.S. dollars.”  ‘Insatiable Demand’  Foreign borrowers are also tapping the U.S. market as
doubts resurface that euro-region countries with the highest
budget deficits will be able to get their finances under
control, said  Timothy Cox , an executive director of debt capital
markets at Mizuho Securities USA in New York.  “The crisis has forced a lot of European buyers to play in
the States,” Cox said. “The insatiable demand for credit here
is allowing global players to jump in the U.S.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of corporate
debt risk in the U.S. rose for the first time in five days,
while the cost of protecting European company bonds from default
fell for a fourth straight day.  Celgene Corp ., the maker of
blood-cancer drugs, plans to sell $1 billion of debt in its
first bond offering.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbed 0.3 basis point to a mid-price of
104.5 basis points as of 11:47 a.m. in New York, according to
Markit Group Ltd. The Markit CDX is trading at the lowest since
a new version of the index started on Sept. 20.  Europe Swaps  In London, the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-
default swaps on 50 mostly junk-rated companies declining 1.5
basis points to 502.4, according to Markit Group Ltd. The index
is a benchmark for the cost of protecting bonds against default
and a decline indicates an improvement in investor perceptions
of credit quality.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting $10 million of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  Celgene may issue 5- and 10-year senior unsecured notes as
soon as today, according to a person familiar with the
transaction who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set.  Proceeds may be used to develop clinical and pre-clinical
programs and to expand international operations, the Summit, New
Jersey-based company said today in a regulatory filing that
didn’t include the sale’s size, maturity or timing.  Spreads Fall  Spreads on company bonds from the U.S. to Europe and Asia
ended the week at 172 basis points, or 1.72 percentage points,
down 8 basis points from Sept. 1, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate index. The gap has
ranged from a low this year of 142 in April to a high of 201 in
June. Average yields were little changed at 3.48 percent.  BP Plc  started selling about 1.5 billion euros ($2.05
billion) of bonds today, only its second debt offering since the
Gulf of Mexico oil rig explosion and its first fixed-rate deal
in the European currency since November 2008.  The U.K. oil  company  is selling four-year notes that may be
priced to yield about 150 basis points more than the benchmark
mid-swap rate and seven-year securities that may have a spread
of about 175 basis points, according to two people familiar with
the matter, who declined to be identified before an
announcement.  BP’s European bond issue follows a $3.5 billion offering on
Sept. 28, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. With that
deal, the U.K. borrower led $67.7 billion of corporate bond
sales worldwide last week, following $66.5 billion in the period
ended Sept. 24.  Jobs Report  This week, investors will be following a  jobs report  in the
U.S. Unemployment probably climbed to 9.7 percent from 9.6
percent in August, according to the median estimate of 62
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The Labor Department is
scheduled to release the monthly figures on Oct. 8.  The European Central Bank is set to hold its monetary
policy meeting on Oct. 7. Last week, Ireland announced measures
to bail out its banking system and Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded Spain, while signaling it won’t cut the nation’s
rating further.  With Europe in turmoil, Yankee borrowers are tapping
investors’ appetite for U.S. corporate bonds as returns reach
11.4 percent this year, compared with 6.1 percent on global
government securities, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. The MSCI World Index of  stocks  has gained 3.5 percent
since Dec. 31, including reinvested dividends.  Fund Flows  U.S. bond mutual funds have taken in $181 billion this year
through September, compared with $7.3 billion for European bond
funds, according to EPFR Global in Cambridge, Massachusetts. In
the first nine months of 2009, U.S. fund inflows were $134.8
billion compared with $2.4 billion in Europe.  Reliance, the Mumbai-based energy explorer owned by
billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , plans to sell 10- and 30-year bonds
denominated in U.S. dollars.  Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc
and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are managing the sale for
Reliance Holding USA Inc., spokesman  Manoj Warrier  said in a
telephone interview from Mumbai, declining to provide a size for
the offering.  A $1 billion bond sale would be Mumbai-based Reliance’s
first benchmark-sized offering in the U.S. currency, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It raised $162 million in 2007
from 6.24 percent notes due in 2017, the data show. Benchmark
typically means at least $500 million.  Gold Notes  Gold Fields Ltd., a South African producer of precious
metals, sold $1 billion of 10-year notes on Sept. 30, its first
offering in U.S. dollars, Bloomberg data show. Ten days earlier,
 Anglo American Plc , the London-based owner of stakes in the
world’s largest diamond and platinum producers, issued $1.25
billion of notes at a discounted relative yield to its existing
debt.  Foreign banks led by  Dexia SA , France and Belgium’s largest
lender to local governments, Toronto-based Bank of Nova Scotia
and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc have led at least $370
billion of sales from non-U.S. companies in the first nine
months of 2010, compared with $451 billion in all of 2009,
Bloomberg data show. England has been the biggest foreign issuer
in dollars, followed by Canada, Germany, Australia and Brazil,
the data show.  ‘Rates So Low’  “With rates so low, Yankee banks can raise cash and
bolster their balance sheets even in a market with sovereign
risk as a factor,” said  Rajeev Sharma , a money manager at First
Investors Management Co. in New York who oversees $1.4 billion
of investment-grade debt. “Depending on Yankee bank names, I
think investors keep sovereign risk in mind and expect spreads
to compensate for these risks on new issues.”  Average yields to maturity on U.S. investment-grade company
debt declined to 3.69 percent as of Oct. 1, from 4.66 percent in
June and 4.91 percent a year ago, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. In Europe, the yield averages 3.27 percent. The
difference is the narrowest in more than two years.  U.S. relative yields of 280 basis points compare with 169
basis points on European corporate bonds.  Currency Swaps  European companies are accepting wider U.S. spreads to sell
debt in dollars as a negative currency swap basis offers a
favorable currency conversion, JPMorgan analysts led by  Eric Beinstein  wrote in a Sept. 24 note to clients.  “There is little arbitrage a typical European-based issuer
can derive from issuing in U.S. dollars right now,” the
analysts wrote. “European issuers will continue to be active in
the U.S. market, as they end up paying about the same spread as
issuing locally after accounting for both the market spread and
the swap, but they get access to a deeper, more developed
market.”  Unless new considerations emerge over the European
sovereign debt crisis, the share of foreign borrowers in the
U.S. corporate bond market will remain high, said  Tom Murphy , a
money manager who helps oversee more than $25 billion of
investment-grade credit at Columbia Management in Minneapolis.  “Our market is so much deeper and more liquid,” Murphy
said. “Foreign issuers always want to continue to diversify
their funding sources.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  