-- Home-Buying Risks Decline Along With the Rewards: John F. Wasik
-- John F. Wasik
-- 2009-08-05T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-08-04/home-buying-risks-decline-along-with-the-rewards-john-f-wasik.html

          
          
             Has an all-clear siren gone off? Is
it safe to invest in U.S. homes yet?  
 While a big-city gauge of U.S. home prices in May showed
its first monthly gain in three years and pending home resales
rose in June, the storm hasn’t passed. Foreclosures still buffet
Arizona, California, Florida, Nevada and areas beset by
unemployment.  
 If you are relocating, buying investment properties or
retiring, you may have to move to areas not on your top-10 list
in order to gain some home-equity growth.  
 It is a fallacy to assume that all housing markets are on
the mend. There are still about 4 million single-family homes,
condominiums and co-ops  sitting unsold  and foreclosures keep
hammering prices in the worst-hit areas.  
 It takes some research to find which markets were least
affected by the bubble, had few subprime mortgages and show
stable or growing employment patterns.  
 That’s a tall order these days, although a few places offer
some hope. Which markets suffered the least amount of damage
from the housing bust? You have to start with baseline prices
going back to 2006.  
 Richard Florida , a business professor at Toronto
University, plotted large U.S. market percentage increases from
2006 through the first quarter of 2009.  
 Places to Watch  
 Markets that  fell more than  the national average include
some well-known trouble spots: Cape Coral-Fort Myers, Florida;
Akron, Ohio; Lansing, Michigan; and California from Los Angeles
to Sacramento, according to Florida’s research.  
 Then there are the overperformers that largely escaped the
U.S. decline in house prices. Austin, Dallas, Houston,
Philadelphia and New York weren’t hurt as badly as the
underperformers. There are also some surprises such as
Cumberland, Maryland, and Binghamton, New York.  
 How do you avoid trouble if you are buying now? You will
first have to consider the compound effect of unemployment,
overbuilding and  foreclosures  in any market you are considering.  
 As the foreclosure rates in hotspots such as the Southwest,
Midwest and California appear to moderate, job losses are
forcing above-average defaults in Oregon, Idaho, Utah, Arkansas,
Illinois and South Carolina, according to  RealtyTrac  Inc., an
Irvine, California-based service that tracks defaults and
provides information.  
 Migration Trend  
 It is also helpful to see where large numbers of people
were moving before the bust.  
 A notable migration shift from the most overpriced areas in
the West Coast and Northeast to less-expensive ones may continue
if the overall economy improves. This is what I discovered when
researching my book “ The Cul-de-Sac Syndrome ” (Bloomberg
Press, $24.95).  
 West Coast residents found greater values in the Rocky
Mountain states, fueling growth in Colorado, Montana, Utah and
east-central Washington state.  
 Those who could telecommute or relocate found they could
get much more for their money in Ogden, Utah; Wenatchee,
Washington; or Boulder, Colorado.  
 Home prices during the boom in these places were still
bargains relative to Silicon Valley or the Seattle suburbs.
Northeasterners found they could obtain a higher standard of
living in Texas, North Carolina or Atlanta’s suburbs.  
 Some of the most highly mobile employees migrated to the
“brain ‘burbs,” of Denver and Salt Lake City. This trend may
continue as the hotbeds for technology innovation such as
Boston, Seattle and the San Francisco Bay area stay pricey,
although these innovation centers will probably remain desirable
as cultural and intellectual capitals.  
 Bargain Cities  
 While it will still be relatively expensive to live in New
York, Boston, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Seattle and Chicago,
these cities will always attract culturally creative people who
are educated, entrepreneurial and motivated.  
 Don’t expect to see much home-price appreciation or even
good values in the innovation zones, though.  
 Bargain-priced cities are typically in the South and
include Charlotte and Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina; Lexington,
Kentucky; Baton Rouge, Louisiana; Chattanooga, Tennessee; and El
Paso, Texas. Southern cities generally offer better values for
housing and taxes relative to the coasts and upper Midwest.  
 Looking for smaller, less-expensive off-the-radar cities
with cultural amenities? Then check out Auburn, Alabama; Muncie,
Indiana; Greenville, North Carolina; College Station, Texas.
Towns with stable institutions such as universities generally
offer the best value.  
 There are no guarantees on home-equity growth anymore. And
the most promising cities may not be on anyone’s list for most
glamorous places to live. Yet barring a prolonged recession,
your risk of losing money on a property investment may be much
lower in these places.  
 ( John F. Wasik , author of “The Cul-de-Sac Syndrome,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John F. Wasik in Chicago at 
 jwasik@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        