-- Ambac Ratings May Be Cut by Fitch on CDO Exposure
-- Christine Richard
-- 2007-12-21T21:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-12-21/ambac-ratings-may-be-cut-by-fitch-on-cdo-exposure-update5-.html

          
          
             Credit ratings for  Ambac Financial
Group Inc. (ABKFQ)  were placed under review for a possible downgrade by
 Fitch Ratings , which said the world's second-largest bond insurer
needs to raise $1 billion of capital.  
 Fitch cited the New York-based company's guarantees on about
$32.2 billion of collateralized debt obligations with varying
degrees of exposure to subprime mortgage assets, according to a
statement today.  Subprime loans , made to borrowers with poor
credit, have been going delinquent at an unprecedented pace.  
 The once unquestioned strength of AAA rated bond insurers is
being reassessed on concern by Fitch, Moody's Investors Service
and  Standard & Poor's  that the companies don't have enough capital
to cover losses stemming from downgrades on securities they
guarantee. Fitch gave Ambac,  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  and FGIC Corp. four to six
weeks to raise at least $1 billion or lose their top ratings.  
 ``We're in for a period of uncertainty until the rating
agencies can figure out how deep these problems run,'' said Wayne Schmidt, a portfolio manager with AXA Investment Managers in
 Minneapolis ,  Minnesota , which owns MBIA bonds.  
 If Ambac and Armonk, New York-based MBIA can't address the
shortfall soon, Fitch expects to cut the AAA insurance ratings on
each company one  level  to AA+, Fitch said in statements today and
yesterday. More than $2 trillion of insured securities would lose
their top ratings amid mass downgrades of bond guarantors.  
 ``A big story for 2008 will be how does this situation with
the monolines play out and how many investors and issuers are
going to be affected,'' Schmidt said.  
 Ambac, which has lost about 70 percent of its stock  market
value  this year,  fell  $1.04, or 3.7 percent, to $26.66 at the
close of regular  New York  Stock Exchange trading. MBIA  rose 
8 cents to $20.03, and is down about 73 percent for the year.  
 Raising Capital  
 Ambac pioneered municipal-bond insurance in 1971 and has been
rated AAA since 1979. Its insurance unit guarantees $556 billion
of securities, according to its Web site. That includes $3 billion
of debt for the state of  California  and almost $6 billion of
securities backed by loans to students attending colleges in Iowa,
Massachusetts and  Michigan , according to the company's Web site.  
 The company last week took out insurance on $29 billion in
securities it guarantees, transferring the risk of default to
 Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , according to a Dec. 13 statement.
Reinsuring the debt freed up $255 million of capital backing those
bonds, Standard & Poor's said in a report earlier this week.  
 CDOs, which repackage assets such as mortgage bonds and
buyout loans into new securities of varying risk, have accounted
for the biggest portion of the more than $70 billion in writedowns
in the past two quarters at the world's biggest banks. Rising
delinquencies on subprime home loans contributed to downgrades on
2,007 CDOs last month alone, according to Morgan Stanley.  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 Moody's and Fitch said last month that Ambac was ``moderately
likely'' to breach  capital requirements  because of a deterioration
in the credit ratings of the CDOs it insures. A loss of the top
rating would wipe out Ambac's main business of guaranteeing debt.  
 Credit-default swaps on Ambac, climbed 12 basis points to 595
basis points, and contracts tied to MBIA rose 17 basis points to
590 basis points, a signal of eroding investor confidence.  
 Credit-default swaps, contracts conceived to protect
bondholders against default, pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. The increase in
Ambac contracts today means it costs $595,000 a year to protect
$10 million in the company's bonds from default for five years.  
 Ratings Reviews  
 Fitch's statement today follows a flurry of announcements by
the rating companies about the financial guaranty industry. Three
of the four largest bond insurers' were placed under review by
Fitch for a downgrade. Fitch also put XL Capital Assurance under
review and said the company needed to raise $2 billion.  
 Moody's is reviewing FGIC, XL Capital Assurance and CIFG
Guaranty for possible downgrades and gave MBIA's Aaa insurance
rating a negative outlook. S&P said only FGIC was formally under
review for a ratings cut. S&P did change its outlook to negative
from stable for the ratings on MBIA, Ambac, XL Assurance and CIFG.  
 MBIA was considered ``somewhat likely'' to need more capital
by Moody's earlier this month, prompting the company to raise
about $1 billion through an agreement to sell stock to and through
Warburg Pincus LLC. MBIA said it is still considering other
capital raising options.  
 Safest Bets  
 Only two of the seven AAA rated bond insurers emerged
unscathed from the ratings companies' latest reviews.  Assured
Guaranty  was affirmed by all three companies because it has less
risk than competitors from mortgage-related securities. Fitch
affirmed Assured Guaranty's AAA insurance and reinsurance ratings
last week after the company announced a plan to raise $345 million
through  share sales . The company plans to give the proceeds to
Assured Guaranty Re Ltd. so it can reinsure more deals.  
 The Ambac debt reinsured by Assured Guaranty includes
structured finance, public finance and international securities,
Ambac spokesman  Peter Poillon  said last week. Assured Guaranty
won't reinsure any CDOs, he said.  
 Financial Security Assurance Holdings, owned by  Dexia SA (DEXB) , was
affirmed by Moody's and S&P, while Fitch said last month there was
a ``minimal probability'' the third-largest bond insurer would
need more capital.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Richard in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Moody at 
 emoody@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        