-- FCC aims to help telcos offer TV service faster
-- By  Jeremy Pelofsky
-- Sun Dec 17, 2006 12:51pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/17/businesspro-fcc-dc-idUSN1727093420061217

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Communications 
Commission this week hopes to do what Congress could not 
accomplish this year -- help AT&T Inc. ( T.N ) and Verizon 
Communications ( VZ.N ) get into the television business faster. 

  New subscription television providers like the telephone 
carriers must apply with thousands of cities and towns for 
permission to offer the service and they have complained that 
the process could take years.  The FCC is slated to vote on Wednesday on a plan to limit 
local authorities to 90 days for reviewing most applications 
and restrict demands that providers offer unrelated services to 
cities such as installing playgrounds and streetlamps.  Telephone carriers see offering television service as a way 
to better compete against cable companies, which are vying for 
more customers with new voice and high-speed Internet services. 
The FCC sees the move as a way to spur more competition.  "The commission can take steps to further this entry and 
ensure the benefits of increased video competition, namely 
lower prices for consumers, are available to as many Americans 
as possible as quickly as possible," FCC Chairman Kevin Martin 
said earlier this month.  However, Verizon said last month it would boost its price 
for television service, raising questions about competition. 
The commissioners at the meeting also plan to review cable 
prices, which have recently outpaced inflation.  Not on the agenda Wednesday is voting on AT&T's acquisition 
of BellSouth Corp. BLS.N, which has been delayed for more 
than two months because four of the commissioners cannot break 
an impasse on what conditions to attach to the deal.  The fifth commissioner, Republican Robert McDowell, had 
said he could not vote because of his past work for carriers 
that compete against AT&T and BellSouth. He recently was 
authorized to vote by the FCC general counsel, though he could 
still abstain.
  CONGRESSIONAL INACTION PROMPTS FCC  Earlier this year, the U.S. House of Representatives backed 
a bill permitting new video providers to get a national license 
and the Senate Commerce Committee voted to simplify the local 
application process. However, they did not advance the 
legislation before Congress adjourned.  States like Texas and California have already passed laws 
permitting them to get statewide licenses on the condition they 
pay a portion of their video revenue to local authorities to 
cover the usage of public rights-of-way as cable companies do.  The FCC proposal would likely restrict local authorities to 
90 days to review applications from providers who already use 
public rights-of-way and 180 days for new providers, as well as 
limit unrelated public works projects, according to government 
and industry sources.  "We think these things will be another step in opening up 
the video market to competition," said Tom Tauke, Verizon 
executive vice president for public policy.  Verizon, the No. 2 U.S. phone carrier, said late on Friday 
that New Jersey had given it a license to offer television 
service in the state. Verizon ranks behind only rival AT&T.  Details were still being worked out at the FCC and could 
change. Martin also could postpone the vote if he does not yet 
have the votes.  National Cable & Telecommunications Association spokesman 
Brian Dietz questioned the need for action and expressed 
concern that cable companies could be put at a disadvantage.  "We continue to maintain that any regulatory relief must 
treat all providers equally and not create a two-tiered 
regulatory structure," he said. "The current record at the FCC 
shows that the large telephone companies have not encountered 
any difficulty in obtaining franchises."  The FCC decision also could spark a court challenge from 
local and state officials.  "There clearly is opposition coming from state and local 
officials, who are concerned about FCC attempts to restrict 
their franchise powers and who question the agency's authority 
to act in this area," Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. analysts said in a 
note to clients.