-- U.S. jury rules against Freightliner in fraud case
-- 
-- Sat Dec 16, 2006 7:40pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/17/businesspro-daimlercrysler-freightliner-idUSN1644356020061217

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - A U.S. court has ordered 
DaimlerChrysler AG and its heavy truck-making unit Freightliner 
LLC to pay more than $800 million in a tangled multinational 
fraud case, The Oregonian newspaper said on Saturday. 

  The decision by a Multnomah County Circuit Court jury 
followed a British court's 2005 decision against Freightliner, 
headquartered in Portland, Oregon.  Representatives of Freightliner and DaimlerChrysler could 
not immediately be reached for comment.  The 12-person jury on Friday found Freightliner liable for 
shifting assets among several of its divisions in a bid to 
avoid a legal judgment, the newspaper said.  Freightliner was ordered to pay at least $488 million to 
German truck maker MAN AG.  Freightliner and its parent company, DaimlerChrysler North 
American Holding Corp. DCXGn.DE, were also ordered to pay 
$350 million in punitive damages -- an amount believed to be 
the largest such award ever in Oregon.  DaimlerChrysler, the world's largest maker of commercial 
trucks, was found liable for $280 million of the punitive 
damages, with the remaining $70 million assessed against 
Freightliner, the newspaper said.  Freightliner said it will appeal the verdict, the paper 
said.  The legal setback comes in the same week that 
DaimlerChrysler said it could lay off up to 4,000 Freightliner 
workers in North America next year in response to an expected 
40-percent drop in orders for large trucks.  The case goes back to suspected accounting fraud in the 
1990s at UK truck manufacturer ERF, now owned by MAN AG 
( MANG.DE ). MAN AG bought ERF in March 2000 from Western Star 
Holdings Ltd., a Canadian truck maker.  Western Star in turn was bought by Freightliner in late 
2000.  The suspected accounting fraud stems from before 
Freightliner was associated with ERF, but MAN AG claims it did 
not discover the fraud until 2001.  MAN AG filed suit against Freightliner in a British court 
in 2002, a move that linked the truck company and its corporate 
parent to the case.  In 2005, a London judge found for MAN AG, and issued an 
interim award of 250 million British pounds -- about $488 
million at Friday's exchange rate.  The British court backed MAN AG's claim that ERF's 
financial controller had defrauded MAN AG through an accounting 
scam carried out over several years that went undetected by 
auditors.  MAN said in the earlier London trial that it bought ERF 
thinking it was a profitable company, but subsequently found it 
was loss-making.