-- Liquid coal: A cheaper, cleaner 21st century fuel?
-- By  Steve James
-- Sun Dec 17, 2006 1:18pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/17/businesspro-coal-fuel-dc-idUSN1537411620061217

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - When railroads ruled, it was the 
sweating firemen shoveling coal into the furnace who kept the 
engines running. 

  Now, nearly two centuries after Stephenson's "Rocket" steam 
locomotive helped usher in the Industrial Revolution, that same 
coal could be the fuel that keeps the jet age aloft.  But with a twist: The planes of the future could be flown 
with liquid fuel made from coal or natural gas.  Already the United States Air Force has carried out tests 
flying a B-52 Stratofortress with a coal-based fuel.  And JetBlue Airways Corp. ( JBLU.O ) supports a bill in 
Congress that would extend tax credits for alternative fuels, 
pushing technology to produce jet fuel for the equivalent of 
$40 a barrel -- way below current oil prices.  Major coal mining companies in the United States, which has 
more coal reserves than Saudi Arabia has oil, are investing in 
ways to develop fuels derived from carbon.  The technology of producing a liquid fuel from coal or 
natural gas is hardly new. The Fischer-Tropsch process was 
developed by German researchers Franz Fischer and Hans Tropsch 
in 1923 and used by Germany and Japan during World War II to 
produce alternative fuels. Indeed, in 1944, Germany produced 
6.5 million tons, or 124,000 barrels a day.  And coal-to-liquid (CTL) fuel is already in use elsewhere, 
like South Africa, where it meets 30 percent of transportation 
fuel needs.  In addition to being cheaper than oil, advocates point out 
that the fuel is environmentally friendlier and would also help 
America wean itself of foreign oil imports.  "America must reduce its dependence on foreign oil via 
environmentally sound and proven coal-to-liquid technologies," 
said JetBlue's founder and chief executive, David Neeleman. 
"Utilizing our domestic coal reserves is the right way to 
achieve energy independence."  In a recent briefing to power and energy executives, Luke 
Popovich, a spokesman for the National Mining Association, said 
bio-diesel fuels offer little in the way of reduced carbon 
dioxide emissions, have enormous production costs and present 
"serious transmission and infrastructure" problems.  In contrast, CTL transportation fuels are substantially 
cleaner-burning than conventional fuels.  Popovich warned that the United States risks falling behind 
economic competitors such as China, which plans to spend $25 
billion on CTL plants.  America is "already behind the curve" when it comes to 
tapping the vast liquid fuel potential that coal offers, said 
John Ward, of natural resources company Headwaters Inc. ( HW.N ), 
which builds CTL plants.  He said plants in America would likely each produce 40,000 
barrels of CTL fuel per day, with a typical plant using 8.5 
million tons of coal per year. In contrast, China is focused on 
building plants capable of producing 60,000 barrels of CTL fuel 
per day, he said.  "There is significant investor interest in what could be a 
major growth opportunity," said Paul Clegg, an alternative 
energy analyst with Natexis Bleichroeder.  "It is a viable technology, but the question is where do 
hydrocarbon prices go now? Will we continue to see oil above 
$40 a barrel forever?"  In October, Montana Gov. Brian Schweitzer and a consortium 
of energy and technology companies announced the state will be 
home to one of America's first CTL energy plants.  The $1 billion Bull Mountain plant is slated to produce 
22,000 barrels per day of diesel fuel and 300 megawatts of 
electricity -- enough to power 240,000 homes -- in six years.  Schweitzer and the companies behind the plant, including 
Arch Coal ( ACI.N ) and DKRW Advanced Fuels LLC, say the 
production of fuel and electricity will not release the 
greenhouse gases associated with coal-generated electricity.  Arch has a 25-percent stake in DKRW and the companies are 
also developing a CTL plant in Medicine Bow, Wyoming.  At a recent coal industry conference, the heads of two of 
America's Big Four producers talked up CTL development.  Arch Coal Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steven Leer 
said it "could be a game-changer." Chemical companies and 
railroads were asking him about using coal-based liquid fuels.  "It's a whole new group of potential customers," he said.  Peabody Energy ( BTU.N ) Chief Executive Gregory Boyce said 
of CTL: "Stay tuned, as the sector continues to evolve.  "I have heard reports that China can produce oil for $25 
per barrel from coal. We see it more in the $45 range here."  Peabody recently announced an agreement with Rentech 
RTK.A to evaluate sites in the Midwest and Montana for CTL 
projects. The plants could range in size from producing 10,000 
to 30,000 barrels of fuel per day and use approximately 3 
million to 9 million tons of coal annually.  Another alternative fuel company, Syntroleum ( SYNM.O ), said 
recently that its ultra-clean jet fuel was successfully tested 
in a USAF B-52 at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif. The bomber 
flew with a 50/50 blend of CTL and traditional JP-8 jet fuel.  "The program ... is the first step in opening up new 
horizons for sourcing fuel for military purposes," said Bill 
Harrison, a fuels expert with the Air Force Research Laboratory 
at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio.  The flight test was part of the Department of Defense's 
Assured Fuel Initiative to develop secure domestic sources for 
the military's energy needs. The Pentagon hopes to reduce its 
use of crude oil and foreign producers and get about half of 
its aviation fuel from alternative sources by 2016.