-- Gap ads spur customer interest, but what of sales?
-- By  Chelsea Emery  and  Paul Thomasch
-- Sun Dec 17, 2006 12:51pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/17/businesspro-gap-advertising-dc-idUSN1524579520061217

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Gap's new hip-hop-infused TV ad has 
captured a lot of attention from the young crowd the struggling 
retailer hopes to attract to reverse its fortunes. 

  But financial analysts and advertising specialists say 
Gap's fashions clash with its advertising style, and its 
efforts have not yet generated a steady stream of shoppers.  Gap -- run by Gap Inc. ( GPS.N ), which also owns the Banana 
Republic and Old Navy stores -- is in the midst of a 
much-needed image and merchandise change.  Though its ads featuring music, dance and celebrities have 
won acclaim for their inventiveness, store traffic is down as 
teens and young adults flock to trendier retailers Abercrombie 
& Fitch Co. ( ANF.N ) and Aeropostale Inc. ( ARO.N ), believing Gap 
jeans and sweaters are more appropriate for their parents.  Older shoppers, on the other hand, have been confused by 
Gap's focus on younger-styled apparel like skinny pants and the 
use of hip-hop music in ads, analysts and customers say.  Critics say promotions focus too much on single items and 
do not showcase what Gap has to offer. While celebrities like 
actress Helen Mirren and singer Seal wear hooded sweatshirts in 
its "Holiday in Your Hood" campaign, shoppers of any age still 
are not convinced the clothes are cool.  Arun Daniel, a consumer and retail analyst for ING 
Investment Management, described Gap's advertising as a 
"disaster."  "They do these very targeted ad campaigns where they get 
people in who buy the product and they don't buy anything 
else," he said. "They don't have the assortment that people are 
looking for."  Gap spokeswoman Erica Archambault disagreed, saying the 
skinny black pant promotion and the Product Red campaign, which 
focuses on red apparel and accessories and gives some sales 
proceeds to charity, had brought more people into its stores.  "We are seeing customers sticking around and buying from 
other categories," she said. "We have seen halo effects into 
our other product categories and we are encouraged by that."  Third-quarter profit dropped 11 percent and Gap Inc.'s 
same-store sales, a closely watched measure of stores open at 
least a year, have dropped for 10 straight months. Even in the 
hot shopping month of November, same-store sales at North 
American Gap-branded stores sagged 7 percent from a year ago.  Gap said its Project Red promotion brought people into 
stores early in October, but traffic for the month fell 7 
percent on a year ago, after a 5 percent fall in September.  Still, Archambault described the "intangible benefits" of a 
well-received campaign as "invaluable."  "When you're building the strength of the brand and of the 
company, it's not about month to month," she said. "It's about 
the impact you're making and how it's resonating. We have 
positive signs that give us confidence we're on the right 
track."
  ADVERTISING MISSTEPS?  In hopes of improving its image, Gap launched a new TV ad 
campaign this summer, while pressing its message on radio, 
outdoor signs and in print.  The company first rolled out a campaign about denim, and 
then another for skinny black pants, with TV ads featuring 
footage of the late actress and style icon, Audrey Hepburn.  Hooded sweatshirts then took the spotlight in the "Holiday 
in Your Hood" campaign, created by Laird+Partners and featuring 
model Claudia Schiffer and actress Diane Kruger.  A TV spot for the campaign features an original song by 
rapper and actor Common, and the holiday ads were among the top 
10 TV favorites, a National Retail Federation survey found.  The hoodie worn by Common in the ad has sold out online and 
"is flying off shelves," according to Archambault.  But marketing experts say even with innovative, creatively 
strong advertising campaigns, the San Francisco-based 
retailer's brand problems cannot be solved overnight.  "You're assuming that just because they did this big 
campaign that people were going to pay attention," said Robert 
Passikoff, founder and president of Brand Keys Inc. "The issue 
is one of engagement with the brand. It's not a matter of 
awareness of the campaign or even liking the campaign."  For example, Kelly Collazos, a 15-year-old New Jersey 
high-school student, said she liked the music on the ad, but 
still skipped the store on a recent Christmas shopping trip.  "The music and the commercials are good but the styles, 
well, it's a Mom store," she said. "My aunts shop there."