-- Judge denies Exxon request in Alaska lease dispute
-- By  Yereth Rosen
-- Wed May 2, 2007 5:12pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/02/businesspro-alaska-exxon-judge-dc-idUSN0237541620070502

 

 ANCHORAGE, Alaska  (Reuters) - An Alaska court denied a 
request from Exxon Mobil ( XOM.N ) and its partners for a stay 
that would have allowed the group to hang on to oil and gas 
leases at the undeveloped Point Thomson field while they fight 
a state decision to take the leases back. 

  The ruling, issued late Tuesday, is the latest development 
in a long-running dispute between the state and leaseholders at 
Point Thomson, a resource-rich but long-dormant area just west 
of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.  The state Department of Natural Resources in November 
revoked the leases at Point Thomson a year after state 
officials found operator Exxon Mobil and its partners -- BP 
( BP.L ), Chevron ( CVX.N ) and ConocoPhillips ( COP.N ) -- to be in 
default of development requirements.  The unit holds 8 trillion to 9 trillion cubic feet of 
natural gas and about 300 million barrels of liquids in the 
form of natural gas condensates and crude oil.  The state hopes to put Point Thomson leases back on the 
auction block, where they can be sold to other companies and 
developed.  In her ruling, Superior Court Judge Sharon Gleason said the 
state had "persuasively demonstrated that it is in the public 
interest" for the Department of Natural Resources to continue 
with the lease termination process.  Gleason said the companies must pay the state a $20 million 
fine for violating lease terms or post a $25 million bond with 
the court while the appeals process continues.  Tom Irwin, commissioner of the Alaska Department of Natural 
Resources, said the ruling was a clear win for the state. 
"We're standing up for the state's right to protect its 
resources," Irwin said. "We want our resources to move to 
market."  Alaska oil and gas leases normally expire after five to 10 
years if there has been no commercial development. But the 
Point Thomson leases, some of which date back to the 1960s, 
received numerous extensions through the years based on the 
companies' promises to bring the field into production.  ExxonMobil, the majority owner of the disputed leases, and 
its partners argue that Point Thomson cannot be developed until 
a long-planned natural gas pipeline is built from the North 
Slope. The reservoir there is challenged by unusually 
high-pressure conditions, the companies have said.  But in previous development plans, Exxon Mobil and the 
other companies pledged to produce Point Thomson liquids and 
send them to market through the existing trans-Alaska oil 
pipeline.