-- Sale of Home Depot unit in doubt: report
-- 
-- Thu Aug 23, 2007 11:52am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/08/23/businesspro-homedepot-sale-dc-idUSN2325615620070823

 

 ATLANTA  (Reuters) - A private equity-led buyout of Home 
Depot Inc.'s ( HD.N ) wholesale supply division, due to close on 
Thursday, could be in trouble because investment banks involved 
are reluctant to fund the transaction even at a lower price, a 
published report said. 

  Shares of the home improvement retailer were down about 2 
percent on Thursday.  The Financial Times reported in its online edition that the 
sale of the Home Depot Supply unit, which provides materials to 
home builders and other commercial customers, could be at risk, 
citing people familiar with the negotiations.  But the report also said people familiar with the talks 
said parties hoped to reach a deal.  Home Depot spokeswoman Paula Drake had no comment.  "This added uncertainty is unwelcome and perhaps adds to 
the trading volatility of the shares," Raymond James analyst 
Budd Bugatch said in a research note.  Earlier this month, Atlanta-based Home Depot said it was in 
talks with private equity buyers about restructuring the deal 
that could result in a lower price than the original $10.3 
billion.  Last week, the retailer said it and the private equity 
firms -- Bain Capital Partners, Carlyle Group CYL.UL and 
Clayton, Dubilier & Rice -- agreed to delay the proposed 
closing date of the accord to August 23 from August 16.  A spokesman for Clayton, Dubilier & Rice had no comment on 
the talks, and representatives of Bain Capital and Carlyle 
Group couldn't immediately be reached to comment.  The sale of the supply unit was intended to help fund a 
$22.5 billion share repurchase announced in June. As part of 
that plan, Home Depot currently has a tender offer outstanding 
to buy back 250 million shares.  Home Depot's shares, a component of the Dow Jones 
Industrial Average, were down 82 cents, or 2.4 percent, to 
$33.95 in morning New York Stock Exchange trading. So far this 
year, the stock has fallen about 15 percent.  (Reporting by  Karen Jacobs )