-- GM reassures dealers only Hummer brand is for sale
-- 
-- Tue Jul 8, 2008 4:57pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/08/businesspro-gm-brands-dc-idUSN0830141320080708

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - General Motors Corp ( GM.N ) is not 
planning a sale of any of its brands other than the Hummer line 
of SUVs, GM's North American sales chief said in an e-mail to 
the automaker's U.S. dealers. 

  Mark LaNeve, GM's vice president for North American sales 
and marketing, said none of GM's brands other than Hummer were 
up for sale or being considered as candidates for closure, 
despite growing speculation to the contrary.  "I have been asked by the media if other brands were 
undergoing a similar strategic review. My answer then and now 
was the same -- no," LaNeve said in his e-mail.  LaNeve said GM's dealers would be among the first to know 
if plans changed for any of the company's eight auto brands.  "Similar to the Hummer situation we would communicate with 
you, our dealers, very early in the process if this was the 
case," he said.  A GM spokesman said the message was meant to reassure the 
dealers.  "What prompted the letter was all of this speculation that 
we might be looking to phase out or reassess some of our 
brands," GM spokesman Tom Wilkinson said.  Saturn, which has been named as one of the most likely 
brands for review by GM, has the right products in a market 
fast shifting away from trucks and SUVs, LaNeve said.  "A lot of dealers were concerned, so I think it was a very 
good thing for him to reassure dealers," said one dealer who 
received the e-mail from LaNeve.  The No.1 U.S. automaker has hired Citigroup Inc ( C.N ) to 
help review its options for the military-derived Hummer line, 
which it said is looking to sell or revamp.  Battered by tumbling demand for large trucks and SUVs since 
the spring, GM has announced deep cuts in truck production in 
recent weeks. Analysts are also expecting GM to take other 
steps to ride out a deepening industry downturn.  GM Chief Executive Rick Wagoner has said the automaker is 
working quickly to develop plans to cut costs and improve its 
cash position.  GM shares closed up more than 5 percent at $10.78 on 
Tuesday.  (Reporting by  Soyoung Kim  and  Poornima Gupta ; Editing by 
 Andre Grenon )