-- M.video Sells $365 Million of Shares in Russian IPO
-- Maria Ermakova
-- 2007-11-01T16:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-01/m-video-sells-365-million-of-shares-in-russian-ipo-update4-.html

          
          
             M.video (MVID) , Russia's second-biggest
electronics retailer, sold $365 million of shares in an initial
public offering to fund openings of new stores as sales growth
outstrips capacity.  
 Investors bought 52.5 million shares, or a stake of about 30
percent, for $6.95 apiece, the Moscow-based company said today in
a statement. The retailer, Russia's second-largest electronics
chain, had offered the shares in a range of $6.75 to $7.25.  
 M.video will get about $203 million of the IPO's proceeds,
with the rest going to owners including majority stakeholder and
co-founder Alexander Tynkovan. The retailer plans to use the
funds to add outlets such as the three superstores it opened on
Sept. 21 in the cities of Kursk, Perm and Nalchik. Consumer-electronics sales in Russia may rise about 15 percent annually
through 2010, according to estimates by  Renaissance Capital .  
 ``They have a very strong management team and a strong
quality brand, so they need to continue with their aggressive
expansion plan,'' said James Beadle, who helps manage about $180
million at Pilgrim Asset Management in Moscow and placed an
order for M.video shares. ``There is plenty of scope for any
retail company to expand successfully in Russia.''  
 The  shares  rose as high as $7.24 on their Russian Trading
System debut and closed 1.2 percent higher at $7.03. They were
allotted to Russian investors and to institutional buyers who
were mostly in the U.K. and continental  Europe , according to a
statement distributed on  Business Wire .  
 `Key Milestone'  
 All the shares on offer in the IPO were sold by the
company's owners, who used some of the money raised to purchase
30 million new shares at $6.75 apiece, M.video said.  
 ``The flotation is a key milestone in our development and
will allow us to invest further in the business and capitalize
on the significant growth opportunities in the Russian consumer-electronics market,'' Tynkovan, also the company's president,
said in the statement.  
 Russia's expanding economy is boosting per-capita incomes
by more than a fifth a year, fueling spending on higher-quality
goods, according to research by Renaissance, the investment bank
that organized the IPO with Deutsche Bank AG.  
 The IPO price values M.video at 10.7 times its earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, based on
2008 profit estimates compiled by Andrei Nikitin, an analyst at
Uralsib Financial Corp. in Moscow.  
 That compares with 8.2 times for  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  of the U.S.,
the world's largest electronics retailer, according to 2008
estimates from UBS AG. DSG International Plc and Kesa Electricals
Plc, Europe's second- and third-biggest electronics retailers, are
valued at 5.4 and 5.1 times respectively, the UBS estimates show.  
 Digital Cameras  
 M.video's net income will almost double to $28 million this
year as sales climb 49 percent to $1.99 billion, Renaissance
estimates. Profit before interest, depreciation and amortization
may rise by 0.8 percentage point to 5.2 percent of sales.  
 The 110-store M.video chain sells goods from digital
cameras to washing machines and aims to expand its selling space
by 12 percent to 328,682 square meters (3.5 million square feet)
in 122 outlets by the end of this year.  
 ``It's a very difficult sector, as you suffer from Internet
competition,'' said Johan Ekstrom, who helps manage about $1
billion in assets at Alfa Capital in Moscow and didn't order the
shares. ``Consumers can also go to other national players, and
international players could come in. Still, there is a lot of
growth opportunity in  Russia .''  
 M.video plans to increase its share of the country's $13.2
billion consumer-electronics market to about a fifth from 13
percent at the end of June, Renaissance says.  
 Eldorado Group  
 Eldorado Group is Russia's biggest electronics retailer by
sales, controlling 28 percent of the market last year with 1,472
stores, according to Renaissance.  
 As well as rising competition, M.video's profit growth may
be curbed by increased rental and labor costs, Uralsib's Nikitin
wrote in an Oct. 10 note. M.video leases most of its stores, and
labor costs rose by 1.5 percentage points to 6.5 percent of
sales in the first half, according to the note.  
 Tynkovan will keep a stake of more than 50 percent after
the IPO, the company has said. The rest of the stock is owned by
his brother Mikhail, a board member; General Director Pavel
Breyev, both of whom co-founded the chain with Tynkovan in 1993;
and Alexander Zayonts, also a board member.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Ermakova in Moscow at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at   k.campbell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        