-- MetroPCS Scraps Offer to Acquire Rival Leap Wireless
-- Amy Thomson
-- 2007-11-01T21:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-01/metropcs-scraps-offer-to-acquire-rival-leap-wireless-update4-.html

          
          
             MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , the
largest pay-as-you-go mobile-phone service in the U.S., scrapped
its offer to buy  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP)  for more than
$4 billion, saying it wasn't able to have ``meaningful'' talks.  
 MetroPCS ``believes strongly in its stand-alone prospects''
and will continue to expand into new markets, the Dallas-based
company said today in a statement.  
 Leap rejected the all-stock offer in September, saying the
price was too low. While Leap Chief Executive Officer Doug Hutcheson was unwilling to conduct negotiations publicly, he said
that month that there was ``attractive potential'' in a
combination.  
 ``The announcement is clearly a disappointment for
shareholders,'' said Stanford Group Co. analyst Michael Nelson,
who advises investors to buy Leap and MetroPCS shares and doesn't
own them. ``Both companies and shareholders of both stocks would
clearly be better off if the two companies did combine.''  
 MetroPCS  shares  fell $2.36, or 10 percent, to $20.14 at 4:02
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. San Diego-
based Leap dropped $4.12, or 5.8 percent, to $67.19 on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. The news halted trading in Leap's stock.  
 MetroPCS representatives didn't have an immediate comment.
Leap said today it disagreed with MetroPCS's characterization of
the recent discussions and again called the bid ``inadequate.''
Officials are open to talking about a combination if it is in
shareholders' interests, Leap said in a statement.  
 Acquisition Benefits  
 Nelson said the acquisition would have saved the companies
$3.8 billion and would have given Leap investors shares worth as
much as $100 each. As an independent company, Leap is worth $81
and MetroPCS may reach $38, New York-based Nelson said.  
 The purchase would have nearly doubled MetroPCS's customers,
which numbered 3.6 million at the end of September, and would
have expanded its network to help it compete with larger rivals.
MetroPCS had offered 2.75 of its shares for every share of Leap.  
 Both companies' shares had one-day price drops of more than
20 percent in August after they reported second-quarter
subscriber additions that missed analysts' estimates. MetroPCS
attracted 154,700 subscribers in the quarter, lower than the
250,000 Nelson predicted. Leap added 126,791, missing Jefferies &
Co. analyst Romeo Reyes' 128,542 prediction.  
 MetroPCS said that combined, the two companies would have a
larger service area and would lose fewer customers. The companies
target people with poor credit who don't qualify for plans with
larger companies, such as Verizon Communications Inc. or AT&T
Inc.  
 MetroPCS, which has expansion plans in New York, Dallas, Las
Vegas and  Detroit , would complement Leap's network in smaller
cities in New York, California, Nevada and Texas. Leap also has a
presence in  Tennessee , North Carolina, South Carolina,  Georgia ,
 Florida ,  Alabama ,  Louisiana  and other states where MetroPCS
covers less territory.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        