-- Sinopec Shares Jump After China Raises Fuel Prices
-- Wang Ying
-- 2007-11-01T09:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-01/sinopec-shares-jump-after-china-raises-fuel-prices-update2-.html

          
          
             China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , the
nation's biggest oil refiner, jumped the most in two weeks in
Hong Kong trading after the Chinese government unexpectedly
raised fuel prices by as much as 10 percent.  
 Shares of Sinopec, as  China  Petroleum is known, rose 9
percent to close at HK$12.76. They climbed as much as 11 percent
earlier.  
 The price increase will help Sinopec cover rising raw
material costs after the price of crude oil surged to a record
$96.24 a barrel. The Beijing-based refiner posted a loss of 5.3
billion yuan ($700 million) from processing oil in the third
quarter because of costs and government caps on fuel prices.
China controls fuel prices to limit their impact on inflation.  
 ``The price hike will help Sinopec counter losses at its
refining business,'' Fu Yunfeng, an analyst at PingAn Securities
Co., said in  Shanghai . ``However, we aren't expecting a big
boost to Sinopec's 2007 profit given that the hike is close to
the end of the year.''  
 Sinopec's profit growth slowed in the third quarter after
higher oil prices cut earnings from producing oil products. Net
income rose 5.5 percent, compared with a 51 percent increase in
the same period last year.  
 Sinopec said Oct. 30 it paid $56 a barrel for oil bought to
process into fuels and chemicals in the first quarter, $62 in
the second quarter and $68 in the third.  
 Fuel Prices  
 Benchmark gasoline prices in China will rise 9.1 percent
and diesel by 9.96 percent from today, the National Development
and Reform Commission, said in a  statement  on its Web site last
night. The price adjustments came as consumer price inflation in
the world's fastest-growing major economy cooled in September to
6.2 percent from 6.5 percent in the previous month.  
 ``At crude prices of $80 a barrel, China's refiners would
make a loss of 1,000  yuan  to produce each ton of fuels,'' the
commission said. ``Some refineries have halted production due to
the losses, putting heavy pressure on market supplies.''  
 Sinopec's parent, China Petrochemical Corp., said yesterday
it will run its refineries at full capacity in November, bearing
`heavy losses'' in a bid to ensure adequate fuel supplies.  
 China has battled fuel shortages since the August summer
consumption peak as oil use rose during the fishing and
harvesting season.  
 The price increase is an ``urgent step'' to stimulate
production and ensure supply, the commission said yesterday.  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        