-- Brazil Needs to Wean Itself From State Development Bank Loans, Levy Says
-- Fabiola Moura
-- 2010-04-05T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-04/brazil-needs-to-wean-itself-from-state-development-bank-loans-levy-says.html

          
          
             Brazil's next government needs to
develop the local debt market to help companies finance
investment and reduce dependence on the state development bank,
said Rio de Janeiro State Finance Secretary Joaquim Levy.  
 BNDES, as the Rio de Janeiro-based lender is known, lent a
record $72 billion in 2009, bank President Luciano Coutinho said
last month. The lender, which was founded in 1952 and provides
financing in Brazil and overseas, sets its rates based on the
country's 6 percent TJLP, or long-term rate, while the central
bank's 8.75 percent target overnight rate is the benchmark for
other loans in the economy.  
 "There is only so much that BNDES can do," Levy said in an
April 1 interview at Bloomberg's headquarters in New York. "If
you are serious about more investments, if you are serious about
corporations growing, you know that you cannot do this only with
on balance-sheet loans from banks."  
 Levy, a former International Monetary Fund economist who
served in the Finance Ministry of both current President Luiz
Inacio Lula da Silva and his predecessor Fernando Henrique
Cardoso, said the subsidized borrowing rates drive up demand in
Latin America's biggest economy.  
 Rate-futures traders expect the central bank to raise the
overnight rate target at least half a percentage point at its
April 28 policy meeting to stem inflation after it reached a
nine-month high of 4.8 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  
 'Face the Bull'  
 "One cannot stand that we have a subsidized interest rate
and then you have a market rate because you cannot control
aggregate demand adequately," said Levy, 49. "You have a
policy mix that just creates the need to hike interest rates to
keep prices stable."  
 While the central bank's benchmark interest rate is at a
record low, it compares with near zero rates in the U.S., 1
percent in the euro-zone and 0.1 percent in Japan. The key
lending rate in Mexico, Latin America's second-biggest economy,
is 4.5 percent while Chile's is 0.5 percent. Brazil's inflation-
adjusted interest rate, at 3.9 percent, is the highest among
eight Latin American economies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Brazilian interest rates have tumbled since the government
reined in spending and created a new currency, the real, in 1994
to tame hyperinflation.  
 "We've been in this game for 10 years, 15 years now,"
Levy said. "After 15 years of price stability, you have to face
the bull in the eyes and have a credible policy for the
convergence and for keeping prices low."  
 Levy said the "main challenge" for Lula's successor will
be to bring down borrowing costs across the economy. Elections
are scheduled for October. Dilma Rousseff, who served as Lula's
cabinet chief until last week, and Jose Serra, who stepped down
as Sao Paulo Governor to run for president, top polls.  
 "The main challenge for the new government will be to have
the right fiscal conditions and the right structural reforms so
that you can achieve a convergence of interest rates," said
Levy. "The future is fixed income -- not only government, but
also private-sector fixed income."  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        