-- Kagan, Two Judges Said to Be Considered by Obama for High Court Vacancy
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-04-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-04/kagan-two-judges-said-to-be-considered-by-obama-for-high-court-vacancy.html

          
          
             The Obama administration,
contemplating the possible retirement of U.S. Supreme Court
Justice John Paul Stevens, is focusing on three candidates to
succeed him, a White House official familiar with the
deliberations said.  
 The group includes U.S. Solicitor General Elena Kagan and
federal appellate judges Diane Wood and Merrick Garland, the
person said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.  
 Stevens, who will turn 90 on April 20, told the New York
Times in an April 2 interview that he will decide soon whether
he will step down. "The president and the Senate need plenty of
time to fill a vacancy," Stevens told the newspaper.  
 Stevens hasn't communicated his intentions to the White
House one way or another, according the person familiar with the
deliberations. President Barack Obama hasn't begun discussing
particular candidates with aides, and the list of leading
candidates could change in the coming weeks, the person said.  
 "We'll be prepared if a vacancy arises, but there's no
vacancy on the court, and there's no short list awaiting a
potential vacancy," White House spokesman Ben LaBolt said in an
e-mail.  
 White House officials expect that any retirement
announcement would come after the high court's last argument of
its current term, on April 28, the person said. The
administration is preparing to move quickly with a nomination,
the person said.  
 Obama Interviews  
 Kagan, 49, and Wood, 59, interviewed with Obama last year
before he appointed Sonia Sotomayor to succeed David Souter on
the high court, according to a different White House official.
Garland, 57, was one of nine candidates the White House
considered for that vacancy, though he didn't meet with Obama.  
 Kagan is the first woman to serve as solicitor general, the
federal government's top Supreme Court advocate. She took that
post after serving as the first female dean of Harvard Law
School, her alma mater.  
 Kagan won praise from conservatives and liberals alike for
smoothing over the ideological tensions that plagued Harvard Law
School before she became dean in 2003.  
 Still, her nomination to become solicitor general was
divisive. She won confirmation on a 61-31 vote, with some
Republicans voicing concern about her lack of courtroom
experience and her opposition to on-campus military recruiting
at Harvard.  
 Intellectual Jurist  
 Wood, a judge on the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
Chicago since 1995, has developed a reputation there as an
intellectual jurist willing to take on her more conservative
colleagues Richard Posner and Frank Easterbrook.  
 A graduate of the University of Texas School of Law, Wood
is an antitrust expert, serving as deputy assistant attorney
general under President Bill Clinton.  
 Garland, a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit, is perhaps the most conservative of the trio, often
siding with the government on criminal questions.  
 A Harvard Law School graduate, he worked in the Clinton
administration's Justice Department, overseeing the Oklahoma
City bombing investigation and the successful prosecution of
Timothy McVeigh.  
 For last year's vacancy, officials also considered Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, Governor Jennifer Granholm
of Michigan and then-Chief Justice Leah Ward Sears of the
Georgia Supreme Court. Martha Minow, who succeeded Kagan as
Harvard Law School dean, is also a possibility for the Stevens
seat, the first White House official said.  
 Stevens, appointed by President Gerald Ford in 1975, is the
oldest and longest serving of the nine justices. The leader of
the court's liberal wing, he supports gay and abortion rights
and limits on government support for religion. He is the only
justice to say the death penalty is unconstitutional.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Solicitor General Elena Kagan. Photographer: Yuri Gripas/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
