-- Treasuries Erase Gains as Traders Prepare for Record U.S. Debt Auctions
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-04-26T20:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-04/treasury-10-year-yields-are-near-highest-since-june-before-services-report.html

          
          
             Treasuries erased gains after the
U.S. sold $11 billion of five-year inflation-protected debt and
traders prepared for a record-tying $118 billion in note
auctions over the next four days.  
 The Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, drew
a yield of 0.55 percent, compared with a forecast of 0.523
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight of the Federal
Reserve’s 18 primary dealers. Treasuries gained earlier on
concern Germany may refuse to guarantee an early release of
bailout funds to Greece, stoking demand for the safety of U.S.
government debt.  
 “The TIPS auction contributed to a continuation of the
downdraft we’ve had all morning long going into the auction,”
said George Goncalves, head of interest rate strategy at primary
dealer Nomura Holdings Inc. “There is some friction ahead of
supply.”  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year note was little changed
at 3.81 percent at 4:40 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor
Market Data. The yield dropped as low as 3.78 percent. The price
of the 3.625 percent security due in February 2020 rose 1/32, or
31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 98 16/32.  
 This week’s auctions will include $44 billion in two-year
notes tomorrow, $42 billion of five-year securities on April 28
and $32 billion in seven-year debt on the following day.  
 “We might need a bit more cheapening at the front-end for
these auctions to go well,” said Michael Pond, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at primary dealer Barclays Plc. “Yields
may need to cheapen a bit further for these auctions to do
well.”  
 Direct Bids  
 The TIPS bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
3.15. The average at the last five auctions was 2.44.  
 Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, purchased 23.1 percent of the notes. At
the October sale, they bought 47.8 percent, higher than the
average for the past five sales of 31.4 percent.  
 Direct bidders, which excludes the primary dealers required
to bid on the auctions, were 13 percent, the highest level on
record.  
 The difference between yields on 5-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for U.S. consumer prices, narrowed to 1.87 percentage points
today, from this year’s high of 2.13 percentage points in
January. The five-year average is 1.91 percentage points.  
 Greek Fiscal Crisis  
 Greek bonds tumbled on concern the European Union-led
bailout for Greece will face hurdles as donor countries begin
trying to ratify the nation’s aid package. The yield premium
investors demand to hold the nation’s 10-year bonds rather than
German bunds climbed to more than 600 basis points.  
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Greece today that must
satisfy the pre-conditions for emergency loans before Germany
approves the aid under terms of a European Union-International
Monetary Fund package.  
 Greek Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou said in
Washington over the weekend that investors will “lose their
shirts” if they bet the nation will default.  
 Greece’s fiscal crisis dominated weekend meetings in
Washington of finance ministers and central bankers from around
the world after the nation said on April 23 it wanted as much as
45 billion euros ($60 billion) of financial support that was
made available by its European neighbors and the International
Monetary Fund. Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the IMF’s managing
director, said talks will end “in time to meet Greece’s
needs.”  
 Sovereign Debt  
 “You can only short the market so much when you have
Greece running around the way it is,” said Jim Vogel, head of
agency-debt research at FTN Financial in Memphis, Tennessee.
“We may be setting up to where we don’t need as big a premium
in front of the auctions to get people involved.”  
 Sovereign bonds yield an average 2.385 percent, about the
same as a year ago and below the average of 3.08 percent in
2008, when the credit-market seizure led investors to seek the
safety of government debt, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. The cost to borrow is steady even though the
amount of bonds in the index that includes nations from the U.S.
to the Germany and Japan has grown to $17.4 trillion from $13.4
trillion two years ago.  
 Global Inflation  
 While the debt helped the global economy recover from its
first recession since World War II, yields show bond investors
aren’t troubled that the growth will spur inflation. Consumer
prices excluding food and energy costs rose 1.5 percent in
February from a year earlier in the 30 countries that form the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the
smallest gain on record.  
 “The fact that inflation is very well behaved, that
provides the cover for central banks to remain on the sidelines
and continue to pursue accommodative policies to help the
economy,” said Thomas Girard, a senior money manager who helps
oversee $115 billion in fixed-income assets with New York Life
Investment Management in New York.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        