-- Golden Telecom Third-Quarter Net Income Triples
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2007-11-08T12:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-08/golden-telecom-third-quarter-net-income-triples-update1-.html

          
          
             Golden Telecom Inc. (GLDN) , a Nasdaq-listed
provider of Internet, voice and data services in the former
Soviet Union, said third-quarter  profit  more than tripled on
growing traffic and an asset sale.  
 Net income  climbed to $74.4 million, or $1.85 a share, from
$24.2 million, or  66 cents, a year earlier, the Moscow-based
company said in a U.S. regulatory filing today. That was higher
than the $69 million median estimate of seven  analysts  in a
Bloomberg News survey. Sales rose 53 percent to $350.4 million.  
 ``Golden Telecom continued to demonstrate excellent
financial performance,'' Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pierre Vandromme said in the statement.  
 Golden Telecom, whose biggest shareholder is billionaire
Mikhail Fridman's Alfa Group, sells services to
telecommunications operators, other companies and consumers in
 Russia , Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. Analysts had expected
revenue to rise 52 percent to $348 million. The figures were
reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  
 Golden Telecom said third-quarter results were helped by the
$41.3 million proceeds from the July sale of 23 percent in
mobile-phone company MCT Corp. for $48 million. The company also
received $20.4 million in cash from OAO Rostelecom, Russia's
largest long-distance calls provider, which acquired 392,988
shares of Golden Telecom stock.  
 Golden Telecom received an additional $30 million by
consolidating operations from Corbina Telecom Group, a Moscow-
based broadband Internet provider that it bought in May this
year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at  at
 lklemming@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        