-- Cell Genesys, Medarex Drugs Fight Prostate Cancer
-- Luke Timmerman
-- 2008-04-14T21:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-14/cell-genesys-medarex-drugs-fight-prostate-cancer-update1-.html

          
          
             Cell Genesys Inc., the developer of
the GVAX immune system-booster, said its treatment reduced a
common sign of prostate cancer when used with an experimental
treatment from Medarex Inc.  
 The two drugs may work well together because GVAX
stimulates immune system cells to fight cancer and the Medarex
treatment unleashes the cells from controls that keep them in
check, researchers said today a medical meeting. Five of six
patients on GVAX and high doses of the Medarex drug cut their
PSA scores, a measurement of disease, in half, researchers said.  
 Cell Genesys, based in South  San Francisco ,  California , is
conducting late-stage clinical trials enrolling more than 1,200
patients to see whether GVAX can help prostate-cancer patients
live longer. The first study is expected to offer results in the
second half of 2009. If successful, it could be the first
approved immune-boosting therapy for cancer in the U.S. An
estimated 28,000 men will die of prostate tumors this year,
according to the  American Cancer Society .  
 The combination is ``showing a lot of success in increasing
anti-tumor activity in these patients,'' said Saskia Santegoets,
a cancer researcher at Vrije University Medical Center in
Amsterdam, in a statement.  
 The findings were presented today at the  American
Association for Cancer Research  meeting in  San Diego .  
 Shares Fall  
 Cell Genesys fell 2 cents to $3.16 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The stock has gained
37 percent this year.  
 Cell Genesys, which has no marketed products, had an
accumulated deficit of $491 million at the end of 2007, the
company said in its annual report filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The company was founded in 1988.  
 Medarex, based in Princeton,  New Jersey , dropped 42 cents,
or 5.4 percent, to $7.37. It has dropped 29 percent this year.
The company, founded in 1987, had an accumulated deficit of $990
million at the end of 2007, the company said in its annual
report.  
 The study looked at 12 patients who took GVAX every other
week for six months, and were broken into four groups who took
different doses of the Medarex drug, ipilimumab. Patients had a
terminal form of prostate cancer that resisted standard hormone-blocking therapy.  
 Highest Doses  
 The anti-tumor responses, measured by PSA or prostate-specific antigen, scores, were seen at the two highest doses of
the Medarex treatment. Four of the five patients who responded
had their PSA scores stay low for six months. Two patients had
multiple lesions on their bones disappear. One person had an
improvement in bone pain, researchers said.  
 GVAX is made of whole tumor cells that have been dosed with
radiation to prevent them from multiplying in the body. The
cells carry markers of prostate cancer that are supposed to
``teach'' the immune system to recognize them as foreign and
mount an attack.  
 Cell Genesys is conducting a late-stage study of 626
patients, called Vital-1, to determine whether GVAX can help
people live longer than those taking  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) 's
Taxotere, a chemotherapy.  
 Last month, Cell Genesys formed a global alliance with
 Osaka , Japan-based  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  to develop and
market GVAX for prostate cancer. Takeda agreed to pay $50
million upfront, as much as $270 million in milestone payments,
and royalties on sales, the companies said.  
 Many investors are betting Cell Genesys will fail. About
16.8 million shares of the company were in a  short  position at
the end of March, up from 6.89 million on March 15, 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Short-sellers try to
profit on a falling stock by selling borrowing shares and buying
them back later at a lower price.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Luke Timmerman in San Francisco at 
 ltimmerman@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in  New York  at   rgale5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        