-- Severstal to Reorganize, May Acquire African Assets
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2008-04-14T16:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-14/severstal-to-reorganize-may-acquire-african-assets-update3-.html

          
          
             OAO Severstal (CHMF) , Russia's largest
steelmaker, said it will be reorganized into three divisions to
improve efficiency and may buy iron-ore assets in West  Africa .  
 Anatoly Kruchinin, general director of Severstal's
Cherepovets plant north of Moscow, will lead the domestic steel
unit, Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Mordashov  told reporters at
a presentation today in Moscow. Gregory Mason, Severstal's chief
operating officer, will manage its foreign holdings and Roman Deniskin will head the company's other natural-resource assets.  
 Severstal has added as much as 12 million metric tons of
steelmaking capacity in  North America  and Europe in the past four
years, Mason said. It agreed last month to buy  ArcelorMittal (MT) 's
Sparrows Point plant in Baltimore for $810 million, making
Severstal the fourth-largest U.S. steel producer. There are U.S.
assets that could be acquired at a ``bargain'' price, Mason said.  
 ``The assets they have been buying in the U.S. so far don't
look very good, with very low profitability'' Marat Gabitov, a
Moscow-based analyst with UniCredit Aton, said by phone today.
``It would make more sense for them to target developing markets
in  Asia .''  
 Severstal depositary receipts  rose  56 cents, or 2.3 percent,
to close at $25.12 on the London Stock Exchange. They have gained
8.3 percent this year, valuing the company at $25.3 billion.  
 African Iron Ore  
 The company may buy iron-ore assets in Africa, Deniskin
said. That would allow Severstal to follow ArcelorMittal, the
world's largest steelmaker, and mining companies such as  Kumba
Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  and Rio Tinto Group, which already plan to develop
deposits of the steelmaking raw material on the continent.  
 ``Africa is a good idea and a relatively cheap entry,''
UniCredit Aton's Gabitov said. ``Africa may be the next point of
growth after China, India and  Russia .''  
 Severstal will also look at steel acquisitions in other
foreign countries where it operates, Mason said. As well as the
U.S., the company produces steel in Italy.  
 The company's natural resources unit is targeting gold
mining projects in Kazakhstan, and may bid for Russia's biggest
untapped goldfield, Sukhoi Log, Deniskin said.  
 The cost of bank loans for Severstal is ``almost unchanged''
even amid the credit crisis, Mordashov said.  
 Severstal produced 17.5 million tons of steel in 2007.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        