-- Uralkali Jumps to Record on Potash Price Forecast
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2008-04-14T15:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-14/uralkali-jumps-to-record-on-potash-price-forecast-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Uralkali (URKA) , the Russian company
developing the world's second-largest potash deposit, rose to a
record in London trading after saying prices may exceed $1,000 a
metric ton, a fivefold increase from last year.  
 Uralkali rose as much as 9.7 percent, the biggest gain in
more than two months, as it plans to increase sales at rising
international prices and slash shipments to  China , which buys
the soil nutrient under long-term contract at lower rates.  
 Potash may reach $1,000 a ton ``rather fast'' on a supply
shortage, Oleg Petrov, head of sales for the Berezniki, central
Russia-based company, told investors on a conference call today.  
 Uralkali's global depositary receipts rose as much as $4.60
to $52 by 4:26 p.m. in  London , valuing it at $21.6 billion. They
have gained 143 percent since their London listing in October.  
 Potash producers are increasing prices because of a 1.2
million-ton gap in supply. Demand for the nutrient used to
shield crops from dryness and disease is soaring in China and
 India  as arable land shrinks and sales of biofuels expand.  
 Shipments to China by sea this year may drop by more than
half to between 300,000 and 400,000 tons, Petrov said. China
will need to pay more than $625 a ton for its potash, he said,
the amount India agreed to last month. Market prices will
``spike'' as soon as Uralkali announces an agreement in talks
with China over a one-year contract, the company said.  
 ``Producers want to have easy negotiations next time,''
said  Mikhail Stiskin , an analyst with Troika Dialog in Moscow.
``They want to keep the country on a short leash.''  
 Shorter Contracts  
 Uralkali may switch to contracts of less than one year, as
prices extend gains, Petrov said. The company is fully
contracted until the end of June and will have limited capacity
for China after that, he said.  
 ``Potash prices won't go below $750 at the mine,'' he said.  
 Uralkali, controlled by Russian billionaire  Dmitry Rybolovlev , plans to reduce its headcount by 30 percent by 2010,
it said in a presentation on its Web site today. The company cut
staff 16 percent last year as labor costs grew 30 percent.  
 The company will invest about 6 billion rubles ($256
million) a year in maintenance and expansion.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net 
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ,  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        