-- Turkmenistan Offers to Sell Gas to EU From Next Year
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2008-04-14T17:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-14/turkmenistan-offers-to-sell-gas-to-eu-from-next-year-update1-.html

          
          
             Turkmenistan  offered to sell natural
gas to the European Union as of next year, bolstering an OMV AG-
led pipeline project meant to reduce EU reliance on  Russia , the
bloc's regulator said.  
 Turkmen President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov said the
country would make 10 billion cubic meters of gas a year
available to the EU starting in 2009, according to European
Commission spokeswoman Christiane Hohmann. He made the offer at
an April 9 meeting with EU External Relations Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner in the Turkmen capital Ashgabat, Hohmann said.  
 ``It's an oral promise,'' she told reporters today at the
Brussels headquarters of the commission, the 27-nation EU's
regulatory arm. ``For the first time, we got a figure. That's the
breakthrough.'' Hohmann declined to speculate about how the gas
might reach  Europe , saying that's a matter for the industry.  
 The EU, which gets a quarter of its natural gas from Russia,
is stepping up the hunt for new sources after Russian price
disputes with transit country Ukraine in the past two years
threatened supplies to Europe. The EU consumed 505 billion cubic
meters of gas last year, according to industry group  Eurogas .  
 The pledge from Turkmenistan, which exports most of its gas
to Russia, is a boost for the EU's planned Nabucco pipeline.
Nabucco, led by Austria's OMV, aims to tap into gas from the
 Caspian region  via a route from  Turkey  through southeast Europe.  
 Late Start  
 The pipeline is due to start operations in 2013, two years
later than originally planned, and carry about 30 billion cubic
meters of gas annually. Nabucco's partners are seeking suppliers
and financing for the 5 billion-euro project.  
 ``A firm commitment by Turkmenistan to export gas westwards
is exactly what is needed,'' Andrew Neff, an Ankara-based energy
analyst at  Global Insight , said in a report today. The addition
of Turkmen gas would ``help to reduce the risk that the Nabucco
pipeline would be left short of supplies.''  
 Turkmenistan pumped 62.2 billion cubic meters of gas in
2006, making it the world's 10th-largest producer, ahead of  China 
and the Netherlands, according to BP Plc's Statistical Review. At
present, the country has pipeline connections only to Russia and
 Iran , Neff said.  
 In addition to pledging gas exports to the EU,
Berdymukhammedov offered the bloc the prospect of extra gas from
new fields yet to be tendered, Hohmann said.  
 ``It's now up to the investors to get going on the transport
routes,'' she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        