-- `Avalanche' of Investor Sales Pushes Yields to 16-Month High: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-15T15:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/-avalanche-of-investor-sales-pushes-yields-to-16-month-high-muni-credit.html
Yields on top-rated tax-exempt
securities due in 30 years climbed twice as fast as those on
U.S. Treasuries, reaching the  highest level  in almost 16 months.  The prospect that tax-free municipal issuance will surge if
the Build America Bonds program isn’t renewed after Dec. 31
drove 30-year tax-exempt rates up 20 basis points, or 0.2
percentage point, to 4.84 percent, the highest since Aug. 17,
2009, according to a Bloomberg Valuation index.  Bondholders sought buyers for $1.4 billion in debt
yesterday, the most  since June 15, 2006 , according to a
Bloomberg bids-wanted index.  “Nobody’s bidding,”  Tony Shields , a principal in the
public-finance department at Williams Capital Group LP in New
York, said in an e-mail. There’s “an avalanche of bid-wanteds,
and there is just not enough liquidity to accommodate this much
sell-side pressure.”  Treasury prices plunged yesterday, pushing the 30-year bond
 yield  to a seven-month high, as Federal Reserve policy makers
said the U.S. recovery is continuing and maintained a $600
billion program of debt purchases. The 30-year bond yield
increased 12 basis points to 4.53 percent yesterday before
prices rallied today, pushing the yield down to 4.5 percent in
early New York trading, according to BGCantor Market Data.  Municipal-bond yields jumped at almost every maturity,
except rates on 1- and 2-year debt, which fell 4 basis points
and 2 basis points, respectively, BVAL benchmark indexes show.
Tax-exempts coming due in 25 years rose for a sixth straight
day, climbing 14 basis points to 4.72 percent yesterday, the
highest since Aug. 12, 2009.  New York  Amid the rising yields, New York City cut today’s tax-
exempt offering by two-thirds to $100 million citing “volatile
market conditions,” the Office of Management and Budget said in
a press release yesterday.  Long-term rates may increase more than 50 basis points next
year if the Build America program isn’t renewed, according to a
research note by analysts led by  John Hallacy , manager of
municipal research at  Bank of America Merrill Lynch  in New York.  The subsidy was left out of an agreement President  Barack Obama  struck with Republicans, some of whom have been critical
of the program. While in the minority, the party has enough
power to stall the legislation. U.S. Senator  Ron Wyden , a
Democrat from Oregon, who previously led an unsuccessful bid to
extend the program, offered an amendment this week to include it
in the tax bill.  Build Americas  Build Americas, which are commonly issued for longer
durations to take advantage of the 35 percent federal subsidy on
interest costs, have accounted for about 23 percent of municipal
issuance since the program began in April 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Almost $181 billion of the
securities have been sold.  The market has “reacted to the fact that there’s more
longer-dated paper coming” next year, said  John Flahive , a
Boston-based director of fixed income for BNY Mellon Wealth
Management who oversees about $20 billion in municipal bonds.  As tax-exempt rates continue rising, investors will
eventually be drawn back to the market, Flahive said. Yields
climbing above 5 percent for 30-year munis is often the tipping
point, he said.  “Look at the yields; there’s not a lot of demand right
now,” he said. “Eventually the yield curve is so steep, you’re
getting 5 percent yields. Empirically that’s a pretty attractive
level.”  Reduced Demand  The reduced demand, coupled with mutual-fund redemptions
and rising Treasury yields has helped create a “perfect storm”
for the tax-exempt selloff, Shields said.  Municipal-bond mutual funds had net outflows of $7.6
billion last month, after 22 consecutive months of inflows,
according to data from Morningstar Inc. Investors had added more
than $105 billion from January 2009 through October 2010.  Average yields  on Build Americas jumped 15 basis points to
6.5 percent yesterday, the highest since Dec. 28, 2009,
according to a Wells Fargo index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  