-- `Easy Money' Runs Out for Singapore Air, Korean Air as Cargo Demand Slows
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2010-12-15T11:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/-easy-money-runs-out-for-singapore-air-korean-air-as-cargo-demand-slows.html
Asian airlines expect cargo demand
to slow as rising U.S. inventories and waning growth in Europe
curb shipments of electronics and luxury goods.  Korean Air Lines Co. , the world’s largest international
cargo carrier, said demand will fall this month because of
rising stockpiles of liquid-crystal display televisions,
computers and MP3 players. Increases in yields, a measure of
rates, are also likely to “moderate in the near term,” said
 Singapore Airlines Ltd.’s  cargo arm, the fourth-largest.  Freight demand may wane after U.S.  retailers’ inventories 
climbed to an 18-month high in September, helped by restocking
that drove a 28 percent jump in Asia-Pacific carriers’ cargo
traffic through October. Europe’s economic growth may slow to
1.8 percent next year, according to the International Monetary
Fund, while tighter lending in China may sap demand for
shipments of luxury goods in the world’s most populous nation.  “The easy money has been made for cargo operators,” said
 K. Ajith , an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Research Pte in Singapore.
“Things are not hunky-dory in Europe and unemployment is still
high in the U.S. Growth for cargo in the first two quarters of
next year is going to be unremarkable.”  Both Korean Air and Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., the
world’s second-largest international air-cargo carrier, get
about 30 percent of revenue from freight.  Cathay tumbled 7.2 percent in Hong Kong trading today, the
most in more than a year, to HK$22.00. The carrier has jumped 52
percent this year.  Korean Air  fell 1.1 percent to 71,300 won in
Seoul. It’s gained 30 percent this year.  Singapore Air  declined
2 percent. It’s risen 3.5 percent this year. In New York, FedEx
Corp. has climbed 12 percent this year, while  Delta Air Lines
Inc.  has jumped 15 percent.  Freight Slows  Asia-Pacific airlines’ freight growth has slowed after a
“sharp rebound in global trade” caused demand to surge earlier
in the year, the Association of Asia Pacific Airlines, which
represents 15 carriers, said in a Nov. 24  statement . In October,
cargo traffic rose 17 percent from a year earlier, compared with
a 39 percent jump in May, according to the group. The region’s
carriers fly about 40 percent of world air-cargo, it said.  Southeast Asia-Europe cargo yields have fallen 45 cents per
kilogram from a high of about $3 earlier in the year on a
seasonally adjusted basis, according to the  International Air
Transport Association . The decline takes yields to 11 percent
below the pre-recession peak, the group said.  Global air-cargo demand growth may slow to 5.5 percent next
year from an expected 18.5 percent this year, the  group  said
yesterday. Yields will be little changed, it said. Asia-Pacific
airline’s profits will fall 40 percent next year to $4.6 billion,
the group said.  Overcapacity Concerns  “We are concerned about global overcapacity next year but
believe the market will absorb the capacity,” said  EVA Airways
Corp. , Taiwan’s second-biggest carrier. Asia-Pacific carriers
boosted cargo capacity 15 percent in October from a year earlier,
according to the Association of Asia Pacific Airlines.  Holiday season demand this year will likely slow from last
year, according to Korean Air, as European governments tackle
deficits and after  U.S. unemployment  climbed to the highest
since April last month. Europe, where a debt crisis prompted
bailouts of Greece and Ireland, remains in a “troubling”
situation, IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said on
Dec. 8. The U.S. economy is barely expanding at a sustainable
pace, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this month.  “Global consumer spending hasn’t fully recovered yet amid
ongoing fiscal tightening policies and still low employment
rates,” Korean Air said in an e-mail reply to Bloomberg queries.  ‘Leveled Off’  Demand growth has “leveled off in recent months” and the
seasonal peak in the quarter ending in December is unlikely to
be as “pronounced” as last year’s, Singapore Air’s cargo unit
said. A year earlier, demand was surging as retailers restocked
in anticipation of an end to the global recession and a rebound
in consumer spending.  Asiana Airlines Inc. , South Korea’s second-largest carrier,
said holiday cargo demand this year is weaker than in 2009
partly because the global economy hasn’t recovered as strongly
as expected. The introduction of more direct China-U.S. flights
is also sapping transshipment traffic, the carrier said.  This year’s pickup in airfreight has caused Korean Air to
forecast record annual volumes. Cathay Pacific, which may
surpass Korean Air as the world’s largest international cargo
carrier this year, is expecting a record annual profit, helped
by rising freight and passenger demand, as well as asset sales.  Cathay Pacific  Cathay’s cargo traffic jumped 24 percent in the first 11
months. The Hong Kong-based airline carrier expects its cargo
fleet to be “pretty busy for the whole of next year” helped by
Chinese exports and the use of long-term contracts with freight
forwarders, outgoing Chief Executive Officer  Tony Tyler  said in
a Nov. 25 interview. The carrier is also increasing cargo
capacity by under 10 percent, less than it expected, because of
delays in receiving new Boeing Co. 747 freighters.  Hong Kong, which neighbors the Pearl River Delta, China’s
main manufacturing hub, is on course to surpass Memphis,
Tennessee as the world’s busiest air-cargo airport this year.
Memphis is the home to FedEx’s main hub.  China Slowdown  Hong Kong has benefited from Chinese exports and rising
inbound shipments of luxury handbags from Europe and of fresh
foods from Australia and Asia as China’s growing number of
millionaires stokes demand for higher price items. This demand
may slow next year as the government tightens lending and winds
back stimulus measures to cool  inflation  after consumer prices
climbed 5.1 percent in November.  “When you have higher prices across China, it’s hard to
believe that conspicuous consumption can continue to grow,”
said UOB-Kay Hian’s Ajith.  The slowdown in China and cooler demand in the U.S. and
Europe means that air-cargo carriers are unlikely to match the
pace of demand they have seen this year, said  Rohan Suppiah , an
analyst at Kim Eng Securities Ltd. in Singapore.  “The rate of growth in cargo demand will be lower next
year than in 2010,” he said. “We have already seen the big
recovery in cargo.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  