-- `Significant' Aid Needed to Equip Airline Cockpits, U.S. Panel Recommends
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-12-15T21:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/-significant-aid-needed-to-equip-airline-cockpits-u-s-panel-recommends.html
The U.S. government should make “a
significant financial investment” in equipping airline and
business jet cockpits so operators can use the next generation
of air-traffic control systems, a federal panel said.  Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  should also commission
an independent study into whether aviation taxes and fees are
too high, and back “responsible regulatory intervention” to
reduce fuel-price volatility from speculative trading, according
to the Future of Aviation Advisory Committee.  The panel’s work is “very significant because we were able
to pull together such a broad spectrum of recommendations,”
 Glenn Tilton , chairman of  United Continental Holdings Inc.  and a
committee member, told reporters on a conference call today.  The recommendations complete an effort LaHood announced
more than a year ago to help guide the aviation industry after
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, record fuel costs and
other hurdles buffeted airline earnings for much of the decade.  LaHood told panelists he plans a timetable by mid-February
for implementing recommendations.  ‘Done Quickly’  “Many of these can be done quickly,” he said at a meeting
at Transportation Department headquarters. “These
recommendations will not sit on a shelf.”  Federal aid for equipping cockpits would benefit carriers
including  Delta Air Lines Inc.  and manufacturers such as
 Honeywell International Inc.  that produce the equipment.  The unspecified amount of aid recommended by the panel
would help aircraft operators meet their commitments under a
federal plan known as NextGen, which aims to boost safety and
let airlines fly more direct routes, saving time and fuel. The
$40 billion effort would transform air-traffic control into a
system that uses satellites rather than ground-based radar.  Part of the NextGen plan requires operators by 2020 to
equip cockpits so that pilots can use data from satellites to
transmit their position and direction to all nearby planes. The
Federal Aviation Administration is trying to get operators to
upgrade cockpits ahead of the deadline.  The upgrade will cost $2.1 billion to $4.1 billion, shared
by the government and carriers, FAA Administrator Randy Babbitt
said in May.  Calling for Incentives  “There have to be incentives to equip early,”  Jack Pelton , chief executive officer of  Textron Inc. ’s Cessna and a
panel member, said on today’s conference call. “We want to see
accelerated benefits.”  When asked if the administration would seek the equipment
aid the panel had recommended, LaHood said no decision has been
made.  Operators should match federal aid for the cockpits with
financial or operational commitments, such as reducing
emissions, the panel said. Options should be developed,
including grants, loans, leases and loan guarantees, according
to the panel. The government should also consider allowing
federal airport grants to be used for equipment.  The recommendation to study tax rates is a victory for air
carriers, which have said their industry pays too much. A
commission should examine whether there are more efficient ways
to collect and administer taxes to save money for consumers and
the industry, the panel said. The commission should also examine
whether the taxes are effective for the level of government
services delivered, according to the panel.  In addition to supporting regulatory intervention on fuel
volatility, LaHood should study the state of infrastructure for
storing and distributing jet fuel, which threatens the economic
health of aviation, according to the panel.  The panel made 23 recommendations on issues such as safety,
labor and the environment. LaHood announced the 19-member panel
in May, and it held its first meeting that month. Members
included representatives from airlines, organized labor,
manufacturers and airports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 