-- ACS Boosts Bid for Germany’s Hochtief to Gain Control
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2010-12-15T14:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/acs-boosts-offer-for-hochtief-in-bid-to-overcome-management-s-resistance.html
Actividades de Construccion y
Servicios SA , Spain’s largest builder, sweetened its bid for
 Hochtief AG , hours after the German rival struck down an earlier
2.7 billion-euro ($3.6 billion) offer as inadequate.  ACS will now offer nine of its shares for every five
shares, valuing each Hochtief share at 64.49 euros based on
yesterday’s closing price, it said today in a regulatory filing.
They previously offered eight shares for every five of
Hochtief, worth 55.68 euros a share at the time.  The new offer follows Hochtief’s efforts to fend off the
advances of its Spanish rival. Hochtief this month issued new
shares, selling a 9.1 percent stake to Qatar Holding LLC and
diluting ACS’s stake in the process. After building a  stake  of
almost 30 percent in Hochtief, ACS has declared it’s targeting a
50 percent holding, rather than full ownership.  “This move by ACS makes the bid for control of Hochtief
much more likely to succeed,”  Olivia Peters , an analyst at MF
Global in London, said by phone.  The dilution of ACS’s current stake makes it more expensive
for Spain’s largest builder to increase its stake. ACS said it’s
confident in completing the takeover successfully with its
latest bid, which is 12.5 percent higher.  ACS  shares  traded at 35.28 euros at 1:50 p.m. in Spain
today. At that price, the offer is worth 63.50 euros per
Hochtief share. Shares of Hochtief, which has advanced 10
percent since the original bid on Sept. 16, rose 2.5 percent to
66.01 euros in Frankfurt.  ‘No Time Pressure’  Hochtief is currently evaluating the new offer, said
 Christian Gerhardus , a spokesman for the German company.  “We recommend our shareholders take no action until we
make a recommendation on it,” Gerhardus said. “There is no
time pressure.”  ACS’s first offer was below  market value  to enable the
Madrid-based suitor to boost its stake further without having to
buy the entire company. Hochtief resisted the approach, saying
it undervalued assets and that a merger isn’t in the interest of
shareholders.  The original all-share offer valued the company at 1.1
percent less than the stock’s closing price on the previous day.
The new offer represents a premium of 26.5 percent to the
 average price  of Hochtief shares in the three months to Sept.
16, when ACS first made an offer, the Spanish company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sharon Smyth  in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 