-- Lafite Thirst, Battling Billionaires Push Wine Auctions Up 88%
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-12-15T00:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/lafite-thirst-battling-asian-billionaires-push-world-wine-auctions-up-88-.html
Sales at the world’s three biggest
wine auctioneers increased by 88 percent in 2010 as wealthy
Asian buyers dominated the market for prestige French vintages
such as Lafite.  The total sales were a record $252.1 million, according to
Bloomberg calculations. The company that sold the most wine,
$94.9 million, was specialist  Acker Merrall & Condit , which may
add as much as $5 million at the final New York auction on Dec.
18. Sotheby’s global wine auctions made a record $89.3 million.  Hong Kong events were the main contributors to growth
at Acker and  Sotheby’s , which both doubled sales.  Christie’s
International  saw a 39 percent increase to $67.9 million.  “The reason it’s happened so  quickly  is that many of the
Asian buyers are starting from scratch,” said  Serena Sutcliffe ,
Sotheby’s international head of wine. “They’re drawn to the
Western lifestyle. They’re building big houses and want a
cellar. It’s an important part of business and social life.”  Hart Davis Hart Wine Co.’s  wine auction total increased 63
percent to $39.2 million, the company said in an emailed release
last night.  U.K. composer  Andrew Lloyd Webber  is the latest collector
who will be offering a major consignment in Asia. He will be
selling 747 lots of Bordeaux and Burgundy at Sotheby’s Hong Kong
on Jan. 22, valued at as much as HK$32 million ($4.1 million).  Old Masters  Demand was less feverish at last week’s evening auctions of
Old Master paintings in London. Year-on-year sales at the
December series declined 41.4 percent as museum-quality works
struggled to attract bidders.  There were no takers for a Poussin canvas, estimated at as
much as 20 million pounds ($31.5 million), at Christie’s on Dec.
7. The following evening at Sotheby’s, a Stubbs painting fell to
a single telephone bid of 10.1 million pounds with fees, an
artist record, after being estimated to sell for as much as 15
million pounds.  Sotheby’s and Christie’s evening Old Master auctions raised
a total of 48.9 million pounds, down from the 83.5 million
pounds last December.  “Really good material is scarce and the market is getting
more critical,”  Johan Bosch van Rosenthal , an Amsterdam-based
art consultant, said. “The fight among the auction houses for
the best paintings is also pushing up estimates.”  The low valuation for the Stubbs was pitched at more than
three times the auction record for the artist, set in 1995. The
Poussin was also estimated at more than triple the record.  “You need a tempting estimate to encourage bidders to go
higher,” Hugo Nathan, a director at the London-based dealers
 Dickinson , said in an interview. “Poussin is not an easy
seller, particularly when the economy is a little edgy.”  Banksy Donation  Urban painter  Banksy  is donating the royalties from his
latest print to support a group of art activists in Russia, said
the London-based online gallery, Pictures on Walls.  “Choose Your Weapon” sold out when it was issued on
www.picturesonwalls.com. The screen print, showing a hooded
youth walking a cartoon dog, was issued in four different
colored limited editions. The 175 prints were priced at 450
pounds each and the buyers selected at random by computer.  Banksy’s share of about 100,000 pounds will be given to
Voina, or “War,” an artists’ collective. Two members were
arrested on Nov. 15 and remain detained in St. Petersburg on
charges of hooliganism, according to the group’s  website .  ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 