-- Canadian Stocks Retreat as Gold, Copper, Natural Gas Decline
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-12-16T21:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/agnico-eagle-finning-international-george-weston-canada-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks  fell for a third day
as fuels retreated on forecasts for warmer U.S. weather and
metals dropped on speculation China may boost interest rates.  Barrick Gold Corp., the world’s largest producer, slipped
1.5 percent as metal slumped to a December low. Suncor Energy
Inc., Canada’s biggest oil and gas producer, declined 1.2
percent. George Weston Ltd., the majority owner of Loblaw Cos.,
surged 4.4 percent after announcing a special dividend.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  lost 47.84
points, or 0.4 percent, to a one-week low of 13,181.23. The
index has slipped 0.4 percent this week after the People’s Bank
of China raised bank reserve requirements for the third time in
a month.  “We know China is trying to shut the taps down a bit.
That’s like a two-by-four to the head,” said  Robert “Hap” Sneddon , president of Oakville, Ontario, money manager
Castlemoore Inc. and vice president of the Canadian Society of
Technical Analysts. “If they go and start to use actual prime
rates or lending rates, that’s a much more overt thing to the
public.”  The S&P/TSX’s monthly gain of 1.8 percent is the fourth-
smallest among 24 developed-market benchmarks. The  gap  between
the year-to-date advance of the S&P/TSX and that of the S&P 500
has shrunk to 0.8 percentage points, after the Canadian index
outgained its U.S. counterpart each of the past six years.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Price Index
decreased for a third day today after  Liu Li-Gang , a Hong Kong-
based economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
said in a report that China may raise interest rates this month
to stem inflation.  Gold, Silver Fall  Precious-metals companies led today’s decline as gold
futures dropped 1.1 percent in New York and silver fell 1.6
percent.  Barrick lost 1.5 percent to C$51.97. Silver reseller Silver
Wheaton Corp. decreased 1.3 percent to C$37.58. Detour Gold
Corp., which is developing a mine in northern Ontario, tumbled
5.8 percent to C$29.10.  Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd., Canada’s fifth-largest gold
producer, slumped 5.7 percent, the most in a year, to C$76.16.
The company reduced its estimates for production over the next
three years by 1 percent to 4 percent,  Anita Soni , an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a note to clients. At least
three analysts, including Soni, cut their share-price estimates
on the stock.  Agnico-Eagle shares have declined for  eight straight days ,
the longest streak in 13 months.  Warmer Weather  Natural gas futures retreated for a third day to the lowest
since Nov. 18 after the U.S. National Weather Service  forecast 
above-normal temperatures for much of the country for Dec. 23 to
Dec. 29. Prices slumped further after the U.S. said inventories
of the fuel fell less than most economists in a  Bloomberg survey 
forecast.  Suncor decreased 1.2 percent to C$36.48. Nexen Inc., an oil
and gas company with operations on five continents, dropped 2.3
percent to C$21.53. Arc Energy Trust, a western Canadian oil and
gas producer, declined 2.6 percent to C$23.33 after  Kurt Molnar ,
an analyst at Stifel Financial Corp., cut his rating on the
company to “hold” from “buy.”  Teck Resources Ltd., Canada’s largest base-metals and coal
producer, lost 0.6 percent to C$56.20 as  copper inventories 
neared a one-month high. Inmet Mining Corp., which produces
copper, gold and zinc, slumped 3.7 percent to C$75.42.  Special Dividend  George Weston soared 4.4 percent to C$82.86 after
announcing a one-time dividend of C$7.75 a share payable Jan.
25.  Winston Lee , a Credit Suisse analyst, raised his share-price
estimate on the stock to C$89 from C$85. In a note to clients,
Lee said there is now a 50 percent chance George Weston will
receive an offer to be taken private at about C$100 a share.  Tour operator and airline Transat A.T. Inc. gained 9.8
percent, the most this year, to C$19.48. The company released
fourth-quarter  earnings  that topped the average analyst estimate
by 88 percent, excluding certain items.  Manulife Financial Corp., North America’s fourth-largest
insurer, advanced 2 percent to a six-month high of C$16.98.  Tom MacKinnon , an analyst at Bank of Montreal, raised his share-
price estimate on Manulife to C$20 from C$18, telling clients in
a note the stock is undervalued considering its book value,
return on equity and estimated profit.  To contact the reporters on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  