-- Taiwan Offering Ruffle Best Value in China as Growth Rates Match Mainland
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-12-15T07:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/taiwan-offering-ruffle-best-value-in-china-as-growth-rates-match-mainland.html
The best Chinese stock values these
days are in Taiwan, where dividend yields lead Asia’s 10 biggest
markets and economic growth matches the mainland, said  Chris Ruffle , manager of the island’s best-performing mutual funds.  Taiex Index  stocks are set for “explosive” growth as
closer ties with China boost investment in Taiwan, Ruffle said
in a Dec. 13 interview. The gauge has retreated 9 percent in two
decades as the  Shanghai Composite Index  multiplied more than 20-
fold. Ruffle, 52, targets stocks trading at 10-12 times earnings,
against a  multiple  of 14.8 times for the  Taiex , 14.4 times for
Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  and 16.5 times in Shanghai.  “There’s a lot of value,” said Ruffle, who helps manage
$19 billion at Martin Currie Inc. and is moving some funds
invested in China-linked shares to Taiwan. “When we add the
inflow of Chinese capital, that will be very exciting.”  Taiwan’s statistics bureau expects the economy to expand 10
percent this year, the most in two decades, in line with the
median estimate for China among 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Growth has accelerated from 6 percent in 2007, the
year before President  Ma Ying-jeou  came to power and rejected
his predecessor’s pro-independence stance. Since then, 14 trade
and cooperation accords have been signed with China and a sixth
round of talks is set for this month.  Local election victories for Ma’s Kuomintang party on Nov.
27 that tested his policies prompted Citigroup Inc., Nomura
Holdings Inc., Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
upgrade the island’s stocks or set higher Taiex forecasts.  China Cooperation  “The election results mean cooperation with China will
continue,”  Parker Wu , who helps oversee the equivalent of $98
million at the Agriculture Bank of Taiwan, said in a phone
interview. “There was a lot of concern before the election
about the possibility of Kuomintang losing badly. With that
uncertainty gone, some investors who had held back their funds
are entering the market again.”  Taiwan has been governed separately since the Kuomintang
fled to the island after losing a civil war against  Mao Zedong ’s
Communist Party in 1949. Former President  Chen Shui-bian  of the
Democratic Progressive Party advocated the island’s independence
during his eight years in office, prompting hostility in China.  “You can say Taiwan suffered under the previous regime
from a policy which effectively cut it off from its main source
of growth on the Chinese mainland,” said Ruffle, Martin
Currie’s China co-chairman. “Now that’s been opened up again.
You see Taiwanese expatriated capital coming back to Taiwan. And
we are just seeing Chinese capital coming.”  Dividend Yield  Ruffle’s  Taiwan Opportunities Fund Ltd.  has this year
jumped 40 percent while the  Taiwan Fund Inc.  surged 38 percent,
leading total returns among 301 funds focused on the island,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Taiex Index  has
returned 11 percent in 2010. Its estimated current-year  dividend
yield  is 3.4 percent, more than 3 percent for the Hang Seng
Index and 1.8 percent for the Shanghai Composite, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Holdings in Martin Currie’s Taiwan Fund include  President
Chain Store Corp. , the operator of 7-Eleven and Starbucks
outlets in Taiwan and Shanghai, and  Far Eastern Department
Stores Ltd. , its website shows. President Chain shares have
surged 72 percent this year, while Far Eastern jumped 30 percent.  Ruffle’s  China Fund Inc.  has returned 22 percent from
shares mainly listed in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Shanghai. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index has returned 8.5 percent, while the
 Shanghai Composite  has lost 9.6 percent. Taiwan’s share of the
fund will increase to about 30 percent from about 20 percent,
Ruffle said in a phone interview on Dec. 13.  Easier Access  Access to Taiwanese is easier because overseas investors
are limited in purchases of yuan-denominated shares in Shanghai,
said Ruffle, a Mandarin speaker who has lived in the city for
eight years. He recommends consumer, retail and infrastructure
companies.  The Taiex, which today rose 0.2 percent to 8,756.71, the
highest since May 2008, may reach 10,000 next year as capital
expenditure boosts growth while cooperation with China opens the
mainland market to Taiwan’s exports, Citigroup analysts led by
 Peter Kurz  wrote in a report Dec. 6.  Technology stocks “look pretty cheap,” Kurz, ranked first
for Taiwan research in  Institutional Investor magazine ’s survey
in the past three years, said in an interview. He singled out
semiconductor, computer hardware, packaging and testing
companies. Demand for manufactured products in emerging markets
such as Taiwan may be curbed by a worsening debt crisis in
Europe, he said.  ‘Biggest Risk’  Nomura raised its rating on Taiwanese equities on Dec. 6 to
“bullish” from “bearish,” recommending financial, technology
and tourism companies. Morgan Stanley on Dec. 3 also set its
Taiex target at 10,000. A day earlier, Goldman Sachs said it’s
“overweight” on Taiwanese shares, while Credit Suisse Group AG
said the island is among the “most attractive” markets for
small-cap stocks.  The “biggest risk” is that Taiwan’s politicians may act
too slowly to realize the opportunities, Ruffle said.  Taiwan  has
limited investment in the island’s shares from  China  to $500
million, even though the mainland had granted $66.9 billion of
quotas as of the end of September allowing domestic institutions
to invest overseas.  “It’s a very small amount,” Ruffle said, referring to
Taiwan’s investment restriction. “They are still very slow to
grasp what I see as a huge opportunity.”  Tourist Arrivals  The Kuomintang party won three of five municipal elections
on Nov. 27, including  Taipei . The Taiex has advanced 5.4 percent
since then, as investors bet cooperation with the mainland will
continue, adding to the treaties that opened direct  weekly
flights , cut tariffs on some shipments and allowed banks to open
branches across the strait.  Mainland visitors are expected to be the biggest source of
arrivals for the first time this year, surpassing the 1 million
projected for travelers from Japan, Chang Shi-chung, chief
secretary at the Tourism Bureau, said Nov. 23. Foreign tourist
numbers may climb to 6 million next year from 5.4 million this
year, the Cabinet said in a statement on its website Nov. 30.  Expectations for Taiwan have been “very low” after it
lagged behind other markets for “decades,” said Ruffle, who
has been investing in the island’s shares for about 20 years.
“You are there for when things change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 Wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  