-- Akzo, FMC Targeted in German Suit That Follows U.S. Class Action Principle
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-12-16T16:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/akzo-fmc-targeted-in-german-suit-that-follows-u-s-class-action-principle.html
Akzo Nobel NV , FMC Corp. and  Solvay
SA  are among the targets in a lawsuit that could increase
private efforts to enforce antitrust rules in Europe by using a
variation on a U.S. class action.  The suit bundles claims of companies across the continent
that say they were victims of a bleaching-agent cartel.  Arkema
SA  and Kemira Oyj were also sued in the case that had its first
hearing today at a court in Dortmund, Germany.  “The case tests new grounds, and we’re curious to see to
what extent the court will allow it to proceed,” said  Florian
Bien , who teaches antitrust law at Germany’s Tuebingen
University. “It’s trying to establish a sort of de facto class
action in a legal culture that has traditionally been skeptical
about that sort of suit.”  European Union and national regulators have encouraged
cartel victims to sue antitrust violators. Germany in 2005
introduced new rules to make private lawsuits against cartels
easier to pursue. While the EU has been considering group suits
for years, it is trying to avoid risks of abusive litigation
that it said are built into U.S. law.  The lawyer behind the Dortmund case is  Ulrich Classen , who
formerly worked for Germany’s antitrust regulator. Classen
founded Brussels-based  Cartel Damages Claims  Group, which bought
claims from 32 pulp and paper makers that say they were victims
of a cartel that fixed prices of hydrogen peroxide, used to
bleach paper products and textiles, between 1994 and 2000.  388 Million Euros  The cartel was fined 388 million euros ($516 million) by
the EU in 2006. CDC estimated last year that its claim could be
worth 645 million euros in damages and interest. It hasn’t yet
provided a specific figure in court filings and instead asked
the judges to first order the defendants to produce information
needed to determine the damages.  “Among the victims are big players of the paper industry;
some have sales of more than 10 billion euros,” Classen said
before the hearing. He declined to identify the companies.  CDC agreed to give the papermakers 75 percent of the value
their claims produce in the lawsuit, including a fixed amount
already paid. Classen said his company will keep the remaining
25 percent. He declined to say how CDC finances its model.  CDC’s use of existing procedural rules to pool claims
doesn’t come close to U.S.-style class actions, according to
 Gerhard Wagner , a professor of European civil procedure in Bonn.  ‘An Efficient Way’  “It’s just an efficient way to enforce antitrust rules
with a minimum of judicial resources,” said Wagner, who’s
currently a visiting professor at the  University of Chicago Law
School . “That’s something we all should welcome.”  Brussels-based Solvay is challenging the 2006 fine in court
and won’t comment further, spokesman  Erik De Leye  said. FMC is
“vigorously defending” itself, said James Fitzwater, a
spokesman for the Philadelphia-based company.  Amsterdam-based Akzo Nobel considers the claims against it
without merit, spokesman  Oskar Bosson  said. Helsinki-based
Kemira has told the court that CDC’s suit is inadmissible for
procedural reasons and without merit, company lawyer Juha
Nokkanen said. Arkema will “contest the validity of the
proceeding,” the Colombes, France-based company said in an e-
mailed statement.  Determining the damage caused requires showing how prices
would have developed if there were no cartel. Plaintiffs need to
rely on calculation models and huge amounts of data that are
usually in the hands of their opponents. And they can’t get
those through U.S.-style pre-trial discovery.  German Courts  German courts will only grant access to such data if they
deem it necessary for the plaintiff to make his case and not
unreasonably burdensome for the defendant to provide it, Allen &
Overy LLP antitrust lawyer  Ellen Braun  said. The way judges
handle the issue may be crucial in deciding the role German
courts will play in such cases, she said.  “The competition of court venues is lurking behind all of
this and the big question is who will come out on top in the
next five years,” said Braun, who isn’t involved in the CDC
case. “Italy and Poland have their own class-action plans and
the U.K. of course wants to have these cases in London and
offers pre-trial discovery as a selling point.”  By acting as an intermediary, CDC removes some hurdles to
pursuing civil antitrust cases in Europe, Tuebingen’s Bien said.  ‘Reluctant to Sue’  “Managers here sometimes are reluctant to sue their
suppliers, because it may cause a bad atmosphere in a
relationship that needs to continue,” said Bien. “The culture
is different from the U.S., where private antitrust suits play a
much bigger role.”  Nevertheless, the model still needs to prove it will work,
according to Bien. Evidence gathering in the so-called discovery
phase before trial isn’t the only problem.  Another risk for CDC is whether the judges will accept a
special-purpose vehicle accumulating claims for a suit. In its
 first case , CDC won a ruling from Germany’s top court saying its
suit was admissible. A trial court must still clear the claim
purchase as valid in the case, which regards a cement cartel and
is currently pending in Dusseldorf.  While the cement cartel was limited to Germany, the
hydrogen peroxide case also covers claims that Italian, French
and Finnish paper makers may have against non-German companies.
CDC’s opponents argue each claim has to be judged individually
by respective national rules, which would complicate proceedings
and could deter judges trained in German law.  ‘Seems Reasonable’  The court today said in its preliminary discussion of the
case that CDC’s model isn’t necessarily inadmissible. The court
has jurisdiction under EU rules and the sale of claims is likely
valid, Presiding Judge Marlies Bons-Kuensebeck said. That view
is preliminary and may change during arguments, she said.  “I don’t think it’s illicit to choose a court you may
think works best for you and that has experience in cartel
damage suits,” she said. “The defendants haven’t yet shown why
you shouldn’t be able to bundle the claims. It seems
reasonable.”  The defendants dispute whether a German court should hear
the case at all. Evonik Industries AG’s Degussa unit, the only
German company in the cartel, settled the private suit and is no
longer a defendant. The company won’t comment on the terms of
that agreement, Evonik spokesman  Ruben Thiel  said.  Evonik, Edison Spa and Chemoxal SA, which were all found to
have participated in the cartel by the EU, attended today’s
hearing in support of the defendants.  Court’s Assumption  European rules allow bringing the whole case in Dortmund
because all the claims are related and Evonik was initially part
of it, according to Bonn University’s Wagner.  Since part of the anticompetitive behavior happened in
Germany, the court will likely assume it can hear the case,
Bons-Kuensebeck said. She said it would probably apply one law,
which could be German law or that of another European country
involved, to all the claims.  CDC’s request for information may not be admissible if the
court concludes it could have gotten the information from Evonik
as part of the settlement, the judge said. CDC asked the court
to order the defendants to provide the full 2006 EU decision,
which potentially has more information about the cartel’s scope.
The defendants say the EU ordered them not to provide it.  “The commission blacked out surprisingly large parts of
the published version of its decision,” Bons-Kuensebeck said.
“We may order parties to hand it over or request it from the
commission. Whether we will get it is another question.”  Whether the court will grant the information request will
also depend on whether company business secrets would be
disclosed, the judge said. Defendants can’t argue the cartel
didn’t influence prices, since prices didn’t rise at the time it
allegedly took place, Bons-Kuensebeck said.  “This court will apply the rule of experience that cartels
are influencing the prices. That’s what they are for,” she
said. The cartel was allegedly founded to prevent price drops.  CDC so far hasn’t done enough to calculate prices, she
said. The plaintiff relied on average price, where instead it
must show for each claim what the actual price was at the time,
and how much was overcharged, the judge said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 