-- Alstom Paying for Lost Years of Focus on Coal Rather Than Wind
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-12-15T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/alstom-paying-for-lost-years-with-focus-on-coal-rather-than-wind-energy.html
Alstom SA  is seeking to reverse the
worst stock return of any major French company this year with a
push into renewable energy as the maker of trains and turbines
seeks to narrow the gap with German rival  Siemens AG .  The company, which narrowly escaped bankruptcy in 2004, aims
to get “double digit” market share in offshore wind turbines
that it’s developing,  Philippe Cochet , head of its renewable-
energy unit, said in an interview. It had 1 percent to 2 percent
of the wind-turbine market last year, lagging behind the top 10
suppliers including Denmark’s Vestas Wind Systems and Siemens.  While Alstom negotiated a state-backed rescue to cope with
the costs of a faulty turbine business,  General Electric Co.  and
Siemens gained an advantage by buying assets, including Enron
Corp.’s wind-turbine unit that the Fairfield, U.S.-based company
acquired in 2002. Alstom, based near Paris, entered the wind
market in 2007 and is building plants in the U.S. and Brazil.  “Alstom has been quite late to the party in terms of
renewables,” Morgan Stanley analyst  Ben Uglow  said. “Their
portfolio is less comprehensive than GE’s and that of Siemens.”  Chief Executive Officer  Patrick Kron  is seeking to restore
Alstom’s  share price  after a 26 percent drop this year, the
worst performance in France’s CAC 40 Index. Shares of Germany’s
 Siemens , which is a rival power equipment and train supplier,
have risen 42 percent. Swiss energy gear maker  ABB Ltd.  has
added 6.2 percent. GE is up 17 percent.  Siemens shares have outperformed Alstom’s because the
French train and turbine maker is focused on markets that grow
late in an economic cycle, whereas its German rival also offers
building and machine controls, medical equipment and other
products that are less tied to swings in gross domestic product,
Kron said in a Dec. 7 interview from Beijing.  Going With the Flow  To keep Alstom’s operating margin from dipping below 7
percent this fiscal year and next, Kron said in October he will
cut 4,000 jobs at a thermal-power unit. Orders slumped as debt-
laden European and U.S. utilities delayed investment because
electricity demand has regained less than half its drop since
the 2009 crisis. Price pressure intensified as Chinese turbine
makers including Shanghai Electric Group Co. and  Harbin Power
Equipment Co . jostle for contracts.  Global coal-fired generation could drop one-third by 2035
in western Europe and North America amid public opposition and
costs linked to carbon dioxide emissions, according to the
International Energy Agency’s 2010 outlook. By contrast, wind
generation is poised to grow 8 percent annually, it said.  Stiffening competition is helping spur a search for new
markets and value-added products, either alone or in joint
ventures, to give Alstom the edge in tenders, Kron said.  “We’re able to swim where the tide is,” Kron, 57, told
Bloomberg in the midst of a four-day trip to sites in India,
China and Russia. “If we have to invest in emerging markets, we
will. If we have to enter partnerships, we will. We’re investing
to differentiate ourselves from competitors.”  Coal Riddle  The French company, the world’s leader in coal turbines, is
developing technology to capture carbon-dioxide emissions to
overcome investors’ concern that coal-fired plants will face
more stringent environmental taxes and rules.  “If they manage to provide a product that solves the
environmental equation of coal, then they’ll be very well
placed, but it’s going to take a rather long time,” said Pierre
Boucheny, a Paris-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, who
has a “reduce” recommendation on Alstom. “They are well
placed in hydro and steam turbines for nuclear plants, which are
more of niche markets.”  Orders Slow  Recent contracts to provide gas-fired combined cycle
plants in Singapore; turbines and alternators for coal-fired
plants in India, where Alstom is building factories with Bharat
Forge Ltd.; and metro cars in Canada suggest orders may have
troughed, the CEO said Nov. 4. The inflow of new work in the six
months ended Sept. 30 dropped 21 percent from a year earlier.
Emerging markets accounted for half of new orders, up from 29
percent a year earlier.  Siemens, which has triple the sales and eight times the
market value of Alstom, reported a 59 percent jump in orders at
its fossil-fuel generation division for the July to September
period, and an 85 percent jump in renewable energy contracts.
Siemens’s Mobility division, which competes with Alstom in
subway, regional and high-speed trains, saw an 8 percent drop.  Acquisitions  “Alstom’s portfolio is arguably less strong than some of
its international peers if coal markets continue to decline,”
said Morgan Stanley’s Uglow. “They need to lead the way in some
of the energy efficient technologies, which in fairness they are
doing. At some point they need to consider making acquisitions.
They could think about renewables, nuclear equipment and
compressors.”  The French company had to sell units making power
converters, grids and ships in the aftermath of the bailout. It
resumed acquisitions in 2007, buying Spanish wind-turbine maker
Ecotecnia.  Starting in 2013, the company will offer a 6-megawatt
gearless turbine that it hopes will become the new standard in
the offshore wind market. Alstom aims to grab more than 10
percent of a market that should grow from about 1 gigawatt this
year to as much as 9 gigawatts in the second half of this
decade, renewable head Cochet said in the interview.  In marine power, Alstom is developing a 1-megawatt undersea
tidal turbine, which Cochet aims to start selling to utilities
from 2014. The goal is to sell 100 such powerplants annually by
2020. Alstom will be able to combine its wind and marine
offerings with its power-transmission business, which it bought
from Areva SA for 2.3 billion euros in June.  “Alstom is well positioned to benefit from growth in the
emerging markets, particularly in Russia and India, and growth
in the mass transit segment,” said  Lisa Randall , a London-based
analyst at Nomura who has a “buy” recommendation on Alstom, in
a Nov. 19 note. “The company will be turning the corner now in
terms of news flow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 