-- Lanco Infratech Agrees to Buy Griffin Coal Mining for Undisclosed Price
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2010-12-15T08:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/lanco-infratech-agrees-to-buy-griffin-coal-mining-for-undisclosed-price.html
Lanco Infratech Ltd. , an Indian
energy company, agreed to buy Griffin Coal Mining Co. for an
undisclosed sum almost a year after the Western Australia
producer filed for bankruptcy and sought to sell its assets.  Buying Griffin will give Lanco access to about 4 million
metric tons of thermal coal a year, which can be increased to
more than 15 million tons, the Madhapur, Andhra Pradesh-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement. The company will
take a bridge loan for the acquisition, Chief Financial Officer
 J. Suresh Kumar  said by telephone, without giving more details.  Griffin, founded by businessman Rick Stowe, sought
bankruptcy protection Jan. 3 after defaulting on $475 million in
bonds and appointed outside managers to sell its units including
Griffin Energy. Lanco plans to increase power generation
capacity in India seven-fold in five years and may bring some of
the coal from the Griffin mines to India, Kumar said today.  “This deal is a big positive for Lanco Infratech because
it secures fuel supplies for their planned capacity addition,”
said Vijaykumar Bhupathy, a Chennai-based analyst at Spark
Capital Advisors Pvt.  Lanco  shares  surged as much as 6.6 percent and traded 0.7
percent higher at 61.40 rupees at 2:08 p.m. in Mumbai. The stock
has gained 6 percent compared with a 13 percent increase in the
benchmark  Sensitive Index .  “The company has about a billion tons of resources,”
Kumar said. “We can increase production from the mines
substantially in the next three to four years.”  The deal is valued at about $825 million, the Australian
Financial Review newspaper  reported  on its website today.  Griffin’s Liabilities  Indian and Chinese companies were among those that
expressed interest in Griffin Coal, according to Brian McMaster,
a partner at KordaMentha, the administrator appointed after
Griffin’s bond default.  Lanco won’t take on any of Griffin Coal’s liabilities,
Kumar said.  Griffin Coal’s bondholders may recover more than 80 cents
in the dollar and may be paid near the end of the first quarter
of 2011, McMaster said in an interview today. The company sold
$475 million of 9.5 percent 10-year notes in 2006, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The acquisition of Griffin Coal is an important component
of our development strategy,”  Kumar  said in the statement.
“This acquisition also presents an opportunity to Lanco to
participate in the burgeoning natural resources trading
market.”  Lanco has 2,100 megawatts of power generation capacity in
India and is targeting 15,000 megawatts by 2015, Kumar said.
Coal will be used to fire as much as 13,000 megawatts of the
planned capacity, he said.  The Indian company has outstanding  debt  of 4 billion
rupees, payable through 2018, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 