-- Hang Seng Bank Seeks Partner for Wealth Management in China, CEO Sit Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2010-12-15T01:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/hang-seng-bank-seeks-partner-for-wealth-management-in-china-ceo-sit-says.html
Hang Seng Bank Ltd.  is seeking a
partner in China to offer wealth management services as it tries
to expand in the world’s fastest-growing major economy without
competing directly with local lenders.  Hang Seng Bank, the Hong Kong lender controlled by  HSBC
Holdings Plc , aims to get into strategic partnerships with
companies in the insurance, asset management and securities
industries,  Dorothy Sit , chief executive officer for China, said
yesterday in an interview in Hong Kong.  Citigroup Inc. , HSBC and Standard Chartered Plc are among
foreign lenders expanding in China to tap growing wealth among
the country’s 1.3 billion people. Their local operations are
dwarfed by local rivals like  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , which has more than 16,000 outlets in the country.  “Local banks and foreign banks have different business
models,” Sit said. “We don’t position ourselves as a daily
transaction bank.”  Hang Seng Bank’s China unit will pursue a “limited”
expansion of its branch network in the country next year, said
Sit. It has 38 branches in China.  Expansion in wealth management, insurance and asset
management could take place through a joint venture or by buying
a stake in another company, Sit said.  Rapid growth in personal wealth in China has attracted the
world’s top managers of assets for the rich, including  UBS AG. 
The number of high net worth individuals in the nation increased
31 percent to 477,000 in 2009, according to a survey by
Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch Wealth Management.  Staff Additions  Hang Seng Bank , whose target clients in China are the
“upper-segment” group according to Sit, won’t compete with
local rivals such as Beijing-based ICBC on branch numbers.  “The number of outlets is not the key success factor,”
said Sit. “I am not saying we are not growing in China; we are
not growing by means of number of outlets.”  The lender, which employs 1,600 people in China, plans to
recruit 200 more in 2011 after adding 150 this year. Hang Seng
will focus on hiring more “frontline” employees, after adding
 staff  at back-office operations this year, she said.  Hang Seng Bank’s China unit posted growth of more than 50
percent in deposits and more than 20 percent expansion in loans
in the first 11 months of 2010 from a year earlier, Sit said.  “We are hoping to achieve double-digit growth in both top
lines and bottom lines this year and next year,” she said.  The China unit is required to reduce its loan-to-deposit
ratio to 75 percent by the end of next year to comply with local
regulations, according to Sit. It currently has a ratio of less
than 90 percent, she said without being more specific.  Hang Seng Bank, which was listed in  Hong Kong  in 1972, is
also considering going public in China, though it’s “not the
top priority” for the lender, Sit said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Tong  in Hong Kong at 
 Stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  