-- Manufacturing in New York Region Rebounds More Than Forecast by Economists
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-12-15T14:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-region-rebounds-more-than-forecast-by-economists.html
Manufacturing in the New York region
rebounded more than forecast in December after shrinking for the
first time in more than a year, a sign the industry that led the
economy out of the recession continues to grow.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  general economic 
index climbed to 10.6, exceeding the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, from minus 11.1 in
November. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the so-
called Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern New
Jersey and southern Connecticut.  Growth in overseas markets is lifting orders at
manufacturers such as  General Electric Co ., while rising
consumer demand is giving the recovery an additional boost.
 Federal Reserve  policy makers, meeting for the last time this
year yesterday, said they plan to follow through with their
program to buy $600 billion in Treasures through June to fuel
the recovery.  “Manufacturing remains healthy,”  Robert Dye , a senior
economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh,
said before the report. “I expect to see moderately strong
regional surveys and continued growth in the manufacturing
sector into early next year.”  Economists forecast the measure would rise to 5 this month,
according to the median of 57 projections in a Bloomberg survey.
Estimates ranged from 15 to minus 10.  The Empire State gauge of  new factory orders  rose to 2.6
from minus 24.4 last month. A measure of shipments increased to
7.1 from minus 6.1.  Consumer Prices  A separate report from the Labor Department today showed
that the cost of living rose less than forecast in November,
indicating higher prices for commodities such as fuel aren’t
filtering through into other goods and services.  The consumer-price index increased 0.1 percent after a 0.2
percent rise the prior month. The median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey called for a gain of 0.2 percent. The
so-called core measure, which excludes more volatile food and
energy costs, also rose 0.1 percent, matching the median
forecast.  Stock-index futures maintained losses stemming from concern
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may derail the global recovery
after Moody’s Investors Service put Spain’s credit rating on
review for a possible downgrade. The March contract on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.3 percent to 1,232.7 at
9:03 a.m. in New York. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose,
pushing down the yield down to 3.42 percent from 3.48 percent
late yesterday.  Fewer Employees  Indexes of inventories and employment dropped, with the
latter contracting for the first time in a year.  Manufacturers nationally have added 114,000 workers to
their payrolls since the start of the year, according to Labor
Department data. In November, factory payrolls fell 13,000, the
fourth consecutive decline, while the jobless rate rose to 9.8
percent.  Today’s report showed an index of prices paid increased to
28.4 from 22.1, while prices received rose to 3.4 from minus
2.6.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were less
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now fell to 48.9 from a seven-month high of 54.6.  Economists monitor the New York and  Philadelphia Fed 
factory reports for clues about the Institute for Supply
Management figures on U.S. manufacturing during the month. The
Philadelphia Fed is scheduled to release its gauge on Dec. 16
and economists expect it fell to 15 from 22.5 in November, which
was the highest reading of the year. The  national ISM  factory
data will be released on January 3.  Share of Economy  Manufacturing makes up 11 percent of the U.S. economy and
about 6 percent of the New York economy. The New York region
last month was the only area to show weakness.  Fed policy makers yesterday reiterated the strategy to buy
an additional $600 billion of Treasuries through June to try to
trim joblessness and avert deflation, or an extended drop in
prices.  “The economic recovery is continuing, though at a rate
that has been insufficient to bring down unemployment,” the Fed
statement yesterday said. “Household spending is increasing at
a moderate pace, but remains constrained by high unemployment,
modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit.”  Overseas demand  is helping support factories. Exports rose
3.2 percent in October to the highest level since August 2008,
according to Commerce Department data released Dec. 10.  Orders Growing  General Electric Co., the world’s biggest provider of
power-generation equipment, won orders for more than 400
megawatts of wind turbines in an auction in Brazil and three gas
generators to expand a plant in Iraq.  The buyers of GE’s 1.5-megawatt and 1.6-megawatt wind
turbines in Brazil’s second alternative energy auction include
Renova Energia SA, Dobreve Energia SA, ContourGlobal LLC and
Bioenergy, Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE said Dec. 6 in a
statement. The prices were not disclosed.  President  Barack Obama  is scheduled to meet today with
General Electric Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt ,
Google Inc. CEO  Eric Schmidt  and other business leaders as he
seeks to bolster the U.S. economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  