-- ANZ Beats Westpac to Dominate Australia Bond Underwriters With Asian Push
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-12-16T05:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/anz-beats-westpac-to-dominate-australia-bond-underwriters-with-asian-push.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd.  is leading domestic bond underwriter rankings for the
first time in at least 12 years as the lender’s expansion in
Asia helps it tap growing investor demand for Australian assets.  Managing deals for Bank of America Corp., the World Bank
and APA Group helped boost ANZ’s market share of bond offerings
in Australia to 15.1 percent from 11.2 percent last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Melbourne-based
bank is beating Westpac Banking Corp., now the No. 2 underwriter
with 15 percent.  Under Chief Executive Officer  Mike Smith , ANZ bought Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s businesses in Hong Kong, Singapore
and four other nations in 2009 for $550 million, increasing the
firm’s presence across the Asia-Pacific region that now has as
many millionaires as Europe. The Australian dollar has risen 9.9
percent against its U.S. counterpart this year, the second-best
performance among the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “For Australian issuers, access to Asian savings is
becoming increasingly important,” said  Phil Bayley , principal
of Melbourne-based consultancy firm ADCM Services. “With the
 acquisition  of RBS assets in the region, ANZ has gained critical
mass and certainly increased its distribution capacity.”  Asian Share  Asian investors are buying on average 20 percent of the
Australian bond offerings managed by ANZ, compared with between
5 percent and 10 percent a year ago, said  Paul White , the global
head of syndicate.  They bought 22 percent of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development’s A$1.5 billion ($1.5 billion)
offering of 5.75 percent notes in February, according to the
World Bank. The deal was managed by ANZ, TD Securities Inc. and
RBC Capital Markets.  Australia’s strengthening economy and relatively high
interest rates are luring Asian bond buyers, according to  Cath Carver , ANZ’s global head of capital markets, who moved to Hong
Kong from Sydney this year to help the bank’s customers access
funding from Asia. The government’s AAA rated two-year bonds
yield more than seven times as much as the U.S. equivalent.  They’ve “increased their interest and investment in Aussie
dollars,” Carver said in a phone interview, “whether it be
government bonds at one end or credit at the other.”  The nation’s benchmark  cash rate  is 4.75 percent, compared
with as low as zero in the U.S. and Japan. Employment jumped by
the most in 10 months in November, more than double the median
forecast, and the jobless rate fell to 5.2 percent, compared
with a seven-month high of 9.8 percent in the U.S.  Millionaires  Australia’s gross domestic product will increase by 3.7
percent in 2011, compared to 2.55 percent in the U.S., and 1.34
percent in Japan according to the median forecasts of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The number of millionaires in the Asia-Pacific region rose
26 percent to 3 million in 2009, matching Europe and almost
equaling North America’s 3.1 million, Capgemini SA and Merrill
Lynch & Co. wrote in the 14th annual World Wealth Report
published in June. The region’s millionaires boosted their
combined assets 31 percent to $9.7 trillion, the report states.  The International Monetary Fund predicts Asia’s developing
economies will expand 9.4 percent in 2010, compared with growth
of 2.7 percent in advanced countries.  Bond sales in Australia have reached A$110.3 billion this
year, at least 64 percent higher than any other period in the
past decade apart from the record A$117.7 billion in 2009,
Bloomberg data show.  Bank of America  Bank of America sold A$1.2 billion of three-year debt in
August, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender’s biggest
bond sale in the Australian currency in more than three years.  APA Group , whose pipelines carry more than half Australia’s
natural gas, raised A$300 million in July in the first sale of
BBB rated 10-year notes in Australia by a non-financial company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ANZ’s market share of bond sales in Australia in 2010 has
almost doubled from 7.7 percent in 2008, Bloomberg data show.
The lender is also seeking to increase its share of Asian local
currency debt markets, including the Singapore and Hong Kong
dollars and the Vietnamese dong, White said.  It is ranked fifth, sixth and fourth in those markets this
year, Bloomberg data show.  Westpac’s market share of Australian bond sales is down
from 18.2 percent in 2009, the data show.  Mark Goddard ,
executive director, syndicate at Westpac, declined to comment.  RBS Deal  ANZ’s Smith is targeting about 20 percent of the bank’s
earnings from Asia by 2012. Last year’s deal with RBS, which
also included businesses in Taiwan, Indonesia, the Philippines
and Vietnam, represented 54 branches with $3.2 billion in loans
and $7.1 billion in deposits serving about 2 million clients,
ANZ said in an Aug. 4, 2009, statement to the Australian stock
exchange.  The lender is continuing to assess strategic opportunities
in Asia under a plan to become a “super regional bank,” ANZ
said in a Nov. 25 statement, the day it shelved plans to buy
control of Korea Exchange Bank.  ANZ’s profit from its institutional business rose 23
percent to A$1.75 billion in the year to Sept. 30, according to
its  annual report .  The bank’s shares have risen 3.9 percent this year, while
those of its main competitors Westpac, Commonwealth Bank of
Australia and National Australia Bank Ltd. have dropped at least
7.1 percent and the benchmark S&P/ASX-200 index has declined 1.8
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 