-- Saudi Aramco Sees Red Sea, Jalameed Gas Flowing This Decade, CEO Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   L a r a   S e t r a k i a n
-- 2010-12-15T05:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/aramco-sees-red-sea-jalameed-gas-flowing-this-decade-ceo-says.html
Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest
state-run oil company, plans within this decade to produce
natural gas at new fields in northern Saudi Arabia and off the
Red Sea coast, Aramco’s chief executive officer said.  “We’ve done quite well, and in the last few years we’ve
made some significant discoveries,”  Khalid Al-Falih  said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on Dec. 8. “We have made 
discoveries in the north of Saudi Arabia in a place called
Jalameed. We’re exploring very aggressively in the Red Sea.”  Saudi Arabia, the biggest exporter of crude, wants to
increase domestic supplies of gas to provide power for energy-
intensive industries such as petrochemicals and metals
manufacturing. Aramco is investing in gas “like never before”
to bring the fuel to market quickly and free up the more
valuable crude oil that Saudis have been burning to generate
electricity and desalinate seawater, al-Falih said.  “By the middle of this decade, you should see them coming
to fruition,” al-Falih said of the northern gas deposits.
Fields off the country’s western coast would start producing
after 2015, he added. Aramco plans to begin drilling for gas in
shallow waters of the Red Sea next year before moving on to
deeper wells in 2012.  “That will be a key exploration program for us because
most of the demand is happening in the western region,” he
said. “If gas is available there, that would alleviate a lot of
the liquid burning.”  Preliminary reservoir tests of the Jalameed Well 3 showed
commercial potential, with gas flowing at a rate of 12.1 million
cubic feet a day, Saudi Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  said when
announcing the discovery in February.  Reliance on Crude  Aramco is also looking to refineries and petrochemical
factories to contribute to economic growth and reduce Saudi
Arabia’s reliance on oil for 85 percent of government revenue.
Access to domestic sources of gas has given Persian Gulf
chemical makers a price advantage over rivals elsewhere, and
producers are turning to naptha and other refinery by-products
to feed new plants.  “The potential in petrochemicals is unlimited in the long
run,” al-Falih said.  Aramco is investing about $40 billion in three refining and
petrochemical projects that together will add more than 8
million metric tons a year to the country’s annual petrochemical
capacity of about 50 million tons.  The company plans to build two of these projects at the
city of Jubail on the Persian Gulf. One is a 400,000 barrel-a-
day plant that Aramco is developing jointly with  Total SA  of
France. It will cost $12 billion, including financing, the
venture’s former Chief Executive Officer Salem Shaheen said in
March.  Dow Chemical Co.  is Aramco’s partner in the second Jubail
facility.  ‘Big Story’  “The big story for us is our joint venture with Dow,” al-
Falih said. Aramco and Dow expect to make an investment decision
next year and to start production in about 2015. Investment in
the venture “is approaching $20 billion,” al-Falih told
reporters at a petrochemicals conference in Dubai last week.  Aramco has committed $6 billion to $8 billion to expand a
third major petrochemical project called  Rabigh Refining and
Petrochemicals Co.   Aramco wants separately to build two refineries, at Yanbu
on the Red Sea and at Jazan, farther south along the coast near
the border with Yemen. The Yanbu refinery is to have a refining
capacity of 400,000 barrels a day.  The company has awarded construction contracts for the
Yanbu plant and for the Aramco-Total facility at Jubail. It is
conducting engineering and design studies for the Jazan
refinery, al-Falih said.  “These are mega-refineries. Each of them will have the
opportunities to have petrochemicals associated with them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net 
Lara Setrakian in Dubai at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  