-- Largest U.S. Stocks Poised to Gain, Hagstrom Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-12-15T17:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/largest-u-s-stocks-poised-to-gain-legg-mason-s-hagstrom-says-tom-keene.html
The biggest U.S. companies are
poised to gains as investors pull money out of bond funds and
seek safety, quality and yield, said  Robert G. Hagstrom , manager
of growth equities at Legg Mason Capital Management.  “There’s a pond full of high-quality, big-cap,
multinational stocks that I think will easily double over the
next five years, that are going to give you tremendous returns
relative to bonds, relative to cash, and I think that’s the next
strategy,” he said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Companies such as Cisco Systems Inc., the world’s largest
maker of computer-networking equipment; Abbott Laboratories, the
maker of drugs, medical devices and nutritional products; and
Medtronic Inc., the world’s biggest maker of heart devices,
trade at prices that suggest  earnings  won’t grow for years,
Hagstrom said.  In a 25-year career “this is the easiest analytical time
I’ve ever had looking at stocks that are mispriced,” Hagstrom
said. “Psychologically, it’s challenging because so many people
are turned off from the stock market.”  As the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 38 percent in 2008,
its worst performance in 70 years, investors shifted money from
stock mutual funds to bond and money-market funds. This year
through October, $29.7 billion was  withdrawn  from stock funds
while $267 billion was added to bond funds, according to the
Investment Company Institute in Washington.  Falling prices for U.S. Treasury and municipal debt since
early November curbed demand for bond funds, and large U.S.
companies are the most compelling alternative, Hagstrom said.  “That’s going to lead you into the S&P 500, if not more
specifically the S&P 100, big multinationals” with dividend
yields of 2 percent to 4 percent, he said.  Legg Mason Capital Management, with $15.5 billion under
management as of Sept. 30, is a unit of Baltimore-based  Legg
Mason Inc.   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 