-- Rosatom Agrees to Buy Mantra for $1.2 Billion to Gain Uranium in Tanzania
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2010-12-15T08:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/armz-uranium-agrees-to-buy-mantra-for-1-2-billion-to-gain-tanzania-assets.html
Rosatom Corp., Russia’s nuclear
holding company, agreed to buy  Mantra Resources Ltd.  for A$1.16
billion ($1.15 billion), giving it the Australian-based
company’s Tanzanian uranium assets.  Rosatom, through its ARMZ Uranium Holding Co. subsidiary,
will buy Perth-based company for A$8 a share, a 5.5 percent
premium to its last trading price before the shares were halted
prior to the takeover announcement today. ARMZ may resell Mantra
to its Canadian unit,  Uranium One Inc. , it said.  Buying Mantra will give Rosatom the Mkuju River project in
Tanzania and add to the controlling stake in Uranium One that it
agreed to buy in June. The Moscow-based company is expanding to
benefit from a revival of nuclear power as nations promote the
technology to meet energy demand while curbing carbon output.  “Russia’s looking to Africa to get energy resources,
particularly uranium, and Tanzania’s definitely one of the more
mining and investor-friendly countries to do business in,” said
Gavin Wendt, a senior resources analyst at Mine Life Pty in
Sydney. “The Russians aren’t silly: they’re not going to enter
high-risk destinations. This is about them securing future
energy supplies.”  Mantra  shares rose 4.5 percent to A$7.92 in Sydney on the
Australian stock exchange after the announcement. The company is
also listed in Toronto.  Mkuja River  The Mkuja River project has estimated resources of 101.4
million pounds of uranium-oxide concentrate, about 77 percent of
global mined output last year. Mantra has started a definitive
feasibility study for the project, according to its  website .  The offer price for Mantra equates to $10.26 per pound
(0.45 kilogram) of concentrate, the statement said. Uranium rose
25 cents to $60.50 a pound in the week ending Dec. 10, according
to Denver-based pricing service TradeTech LLC. The radioactive
metal traded at less than $7 a pound at the start of 2001.  The all-cash offer is subject to Australian regulatory
approval, the companies said in a statement. Mantra’s board
approved the sale, they said.  “Mantra will complement our portfolio of assets and is
consistent with our stated strategy of acquiring low cost, long
life, geographically diverse assets,” ARMZ’s director general,
Vadim Zhivov, said in the statement.  Uranium One  ARMZ said in a later statement it has an agreement with
 Uranium One  to resell all the shares it may acquire in Mantra
within a year. Uranium One Chief Executive Officer Jean Nortier
said Mantra owned a top-class asset that his company hopes to
bring on line, according to ARMZ’s statement.  “ARMZ is now in the process of closing the deal with
Uranium One, in which it acquired a 51 percent stake,” Troika
Dialog Research said in a report today. “We expect that
following the closure of the Uranium One deal and successful
takeover of Mantra Resources, ARMZ will orchestrate the transfer
of the latter to Uranium One at the acquisition price.”  Uranium, processed into fuel for nuclear plants, is rising
as Asian utilities secure material for the next decade and China
builds stockpiles, according to Macquarie Bank Ltd.  Asia may operate 300 nuclear power reactors by 2030, from
115 units today, inspection and certification agency Lloyd’s
Register Group said last week.  ‘Compelling Offer’  “The clean, all-cash offer from ARMZ is compelling and
reflects both the strategic significance of this asset as well
as the current status of the project against the backdrop of a
recent spike in the uranium price,” Mantra Chief Executive
Peter Breese said in the statement.  Rosatom is also seeking more sources of uranium so that it
can supply fuel to the reactors it’s building in foreign
countries, including China, Turkey and India.  The company said in May it plans to invest $1 billion to
develop deposits in Namibia, the fourth-biggest producer. In
June, Rosatom’s ARMZ unit agreed to acquire a controlling
interest in Toronto-based Uranium One for $610 million in cash
plus stakes in two Kazakh mines.  Moscow-based ARMZ is the fifth-biggest company by uranium
production, according to its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at  ahobbs4bloomberg.net. 