-- Harvard Says Steven Hyman to Step Down as Provost in 2011 After 10 Years
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2010-12-15T17:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/harvard-says-steven-hyman-to-step-down-as-provost-in-2011-after-10-years.html
Harvard University Provost  Steven Hyman  will step down at the end of the academic year after
almost a decade of using his post to promote collaborative
research.  Hyman, a neurobiologist, was director of the U.S. National
Institute of Mental Health in Bethesda, Maryland, from 1996 to
2001. He will pursue his research during a one-year sabbatical
at the  Eli & Edythe L. Broad Institute , an affiliate of Harvard
and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard said
today in an e-mailed statement. All three institutions are
located in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Hyman, 58, helped found the  Wyss Institute for Biologically
Inspired Engineering , which brings together researchers from
across Harvard as well as from MIT and the Broad Institute, to
develop approaches to treating disease. He also aided in
establishing the Phillip T. & Susan M. Ragon Institute, which
focuses scientists from Harvard, MIT and Boston-based
Massachusetts General Hospital on the search for a vaccine
against HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, according to the
statement.  “Harvard has been fortunate to benefit from Steve’s
energetic leadership, his extraordinary intelligence, and his
relentless commitment to Harvard’s strength,” Harvard President
 Drew Faust  said today in a letter to faculty and administrators.
“Over nearly a decade, he has done a great deal to shape the
provost’s role and to forge new academic connections across
different parts of the university.”  Harvard will begin the search for a new provost early next
year, Faust said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 