-- Harvard M.B.A. Isn’t Needed For This No-Brainer: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-12-15T21:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/harvard-m-b-a-not-needed-for-this-no-brainer-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
So you’re a global entrepreneur and
wondering where to set up shop. Do you choose a place where
corporate taxes are 17 percent or almost 36 percent?  It doesn’t take a Harvard M.B.A. to know that Hong Kong
(16.5 percent) and Singapore (17 percent) make better business
sense than Japan (40.7 percent). Now, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
wants to make it less of a no-brainer with a 5 percentage point
cut starting in the next fiscal year.  It’s the rare policy step that both indicates a move in the
right direction and shows why Japan is becoming an also-ran. A
35.7 percent Japanese tax rate still wouldn’t stack up well
against 28 percent in the U.K. and 25 percent in China.  Deflationary Japan has been sliding off investors’ radar
screens for years. Yet I’m struck by how the dynamic accelerated
in 2010. Travel to London, New York or Singapore these days and
the third-biggest economy almost never comes up.  Here are five ways Japan can arrest the fall in 2011.  One: taxes. Raising them would be economic suicide in the
current global environment, and yet it often dominates the
discourse in Tokyo. So much energy goes into debating whether to
increase consumption taxes to pay down Japan’s massive debt.
Little goes into questioning how doing so would make things
worse.  Tax Cuts  Japan needs to increase wealth and get consumers to spend
more. Increasing taxes on consumption for already over-taxed
households is economic suicide. It didn’t work in the late 1990s
and it won’t work now.  Lower taxes are the way to go, and Kan falls short. It’s an
incision, not a serious tax cut. Supply-side economics is a
discredited dogma. Yet Japan needs to empower small to midsized
companies to create new economic energy and jobs. Tax cuts could
be paid for by halting wasteful public works projects.  Two: get serious about trade. South Korea is gushing over
its hard-won free-trade agreement with the U.S. Why can’t Japan
do the same? The nation’s agriculture-industrial complex would
be a place to start. Farmers are lavished with generous
government subsidies and more political leverage than their
modest share of gross domestic product warrants.  Nor is the strong yen the problem -- it’s Japan’s
protection of domestic inefficiencies. Kan’s  Democratic Party of
Japan  needs to think about the rest of the country’s 126 million
people, not just narrow special-interest groups. In the age of
China, it has no choice. Japan can continue fighting an
unwinnable war against globalization or welcome the benefits
that come with freer trade.  English, Please  Three: speak more English. It’s no coincidence that two of
Japan’s most innovative companies, clothing chain  Fast Retailing
Co . and Internet shopping mall Rakuten Inc., are pushing the
world’s business language on employees. As the population
shrinks and a strong yen swells companies’ buying power for
overseas acquisitions, better international communication is
crucial.  So is wooing top-quality talent. Ask any hedge-fund adviser
or economist why they aren’t flocking to Tokyo and language is
almost certain to come up. For an economy that has peaked,
becoming a more hospitable place for those Harvard M.B.A.s and
other talent is vital. The best way to take advantage of a
changing world is to speak its language.  Aging Population  Four: tap the aging population. On recent trips to China
I’ve been amazed by all the 60-something Japanese you run into
there, all gainfully employed. While it’s hard to quantify, a
recent Asahi Shimbun  article  tells the tale of IAT (China) Auto
Technology Co., an automobile design and development company.  About 40 Japanese engineers who used to work for names like
Isuzu Motors Ltd. and Mitsubishi Motors Corp. are playing a
central role in developing China’s assault on auto makers, Asahi
reported. Japan should do more to benefit from what  Nicholas Smith , director of equity research at MF Global in Tokyo, calls
“perfect demographics.”  Japan has a surplus of skilled retirees and women to drive
economic growth. It’s not doing enough to harness either
strength. A nation with a declining birth rate and aging
workforce needs to do with what it has.  Five: get hip to immigration. An obvious way to take
advantage of Asia’s growth is relaxing immigration rules.
Foreigners made up just 1.7 percent of Japan’s population in
2009. That compares with 25 percent in Australia and 14 percent
in the U.S. as of 2008, based on Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development statistics.  The U.S., for all its woes, is far more entrepreneurial
than Japan and boasts higher productivity.  Australia  is one of
the only major economies to steer around the global crisis. In
both cases, diverse, vibrant and flexible labor forces served
their economies well.  Kan wants to double the number of skilled foreign workers
by 2020. Japan needs to go much further than attracting the
Harvard set. It needs to welcome loads of low-wage workers, too.
Just like the corporate tax plan, this does show that Japan is
evolving. The trouble is, it’s doing so too glacially to make
much of a difference.  It’s time to pick up the pace of change, and 2011 is the
year to do it.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  