-- Asian Stocks Decline From 2 1/2-Year High on Outlook for Economic Growth
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-12-15T10:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/asian-stocks-fluctuate-as-japanese-carmakers-gain-while-billabong-plunges.html
Asian  stocks  fell, dragging down the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index from a 2 1/2-year high, as U.S. and
Japanese central-bank reports cast doubt on the strength of the
global economic recovery.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company and
Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, fell 0.7 percent in Sydney after
oil and copper prices dropped. PetroChina Co., China’s largest
oil company, retreated 3.6 percent in Hong Kong. Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s No. 1 bank by market
value, sank 1.9 percent in Hong Kong on concern China will act
further to slow inflation.  Billabong International Ltd.  plunged
in Sydney after the surfwear maker lowered its profit forecasts.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.9 percent to 133.87 as
of 7:35 p.m. in Tokyo, with about three shares declining for
every two that advanced. The gauge rose yesterday to the highest
intraday level since July 2008.  “Investors aren’t deeply worried about the outlook for the
economy, but they are not seeing clear signs of improvement
either,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps oversee $6 billion in
Tokyo at Shinkin Asset Management Co. “It’s hard for people to
take the step to invest.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index extended declines this evening
following the close of stock trading in Tokyo, Seoul and Sydney
after Moody’s Investors Service said it’s reviewing Spain’s
credit ratings for a possible reduction.  Federal Reserve officials yesterday kept their plan to
expand record monetary stimulus, saying U.S. economic expansion
hasn’t been strong enough to reduce joblessness.  Business Sentiment Falls  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  closed little changed. The
Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan index of sentiment at large
manufacturers dropped to 5 in December from 8 in September. A
positive number means optimists outnumber pessimists, and the
median estimate of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a reading of 3.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slumped 2 percent, China’s
Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.5 percent, South Korea’s
Kospi Index rose 0.4 percent and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
closed little changed.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lost 0.5 percent.
The index gained 0.1 percent yesterday in New York after the
Commerce Department said purchases at U.S. retailers rose 0.8
percent, more than the 0.6 percent median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Federal Reserve’s $600 billion of Treasury purchases
are aimed at boosting a recovery that has been “disappointingly
slow” and keeping prices stable “over time,” the Federal Open
Market Committee said yesterday in Washington.  Oil, Metals Drop  BHP fell 0.7 percent to A$45.35 in Sydney. Rio Tinto Group,
the world’s third-largest mining company, decreased 1 percent to
A$87.02. PetroChina lost 3.6 percent to HK$9.64. Cnooc Ltd.,
China’s No. 1 offshore oil producer, dropped 2.8 percent to
HK$17.96.  Crude oil fell for a second day, losing as much as 0.9
percent to $87.57 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices
for six industrial metals including copper and aluminum fell 0.2
percent yesterday.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell today by the most in a
week, paring its gain this year to 11 percent. Stocks in the
gauge were valued at 14.8 times estimated  earnings  on average at
yesterday’s close, the highest level since June 22. All 10
industry groups declined today, led by energy companies.  China Inflation  The Asian benchmark closed yesterday near its high this
year on Nov. 8. Concern Europe’s deficit crisis and China’s
steps to limit real-estate prices and inflation will slow the
global economic recovery have weighed on equities, while shares
of Japanese exporters got a boost as the dollar strengthened
from a 15-year low against the yen.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China dropped 1.9 percent
to HK$5.81 today in Hong Kong, and Bank of China Ltd., the
nation’s third-largest lender by market value, lost 2.8 percent
to HK$4.10.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. , China’s second-
largest insurer, declined 2.9 percent to HK$85.90.  China’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in 28
months in November, building the case for Premier Wen Jiabao to
raise interest rates again. Consumer prices rose a more-than-
forecast 5.1 percent, the most since July 2008, the statistics
bureau showed on Dec. 11.  “Inflationary pressure still exists in China and that’s an
overhang for the market,” said  Zhang Kun , a strategist in
Shanghai at Guotai Junan Securities Co. “No rate increase at
the moment doesn’t mean the central bank won’t do that in the
future.”  Spain’s ‘Funding Stress’  HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest lender, fell 1.4
percent to HK$80.80 in Hong Kong.  Li & Fung Ltd. , which is the
biggest supplier to Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and gets 27 percent of
its sales from Europe, dropped 1.9 percent to HK$44.55.
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., the Hong Kong-based telecommunications
company that receives more than half of its revenue from Europe,
slumped 2.8 percent to HK$78.  “Spain’s substantial funding requirements, not only for
the sovereign but also for the regional governments and the
banks, make the country susceptible to further episodes of
funding stress,”  Kathrin Muehlbronner , an analyst at Moody’s,
said in a report today. At the same time, Spain’s rating will
probably remain in the “Aa” range and the “base case”
assumption is that the country won’t need a bailout.  Billabong, Dentsu  Billabong International, the world’s largest publicly
traded maker of surfwear, tumbled 8.9 percent to A$8.10 in
Sydney, the steepest percentage drop on the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index. The company cut its full-year earnings forecast and said
it expects fiscal first-half profit to fall 8 percent to 13
percent from a year earlier amid slower sales in Australia.  Among stocks that rose,  Dentsu Inc. , Japan’s largest
advertising company, gained 2.7 percent to 2,524 yen. Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley raised its investment recommendation on the
shares to “outperform” from “neutral.”  In Seoul, Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co., the
world’s second-biggest shipyard, jumped 3.5 percent to 33,800
won after saying it received a $1 billion order to build five
warships. Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s largest
shipbuilder, climbed 1.8 percent to 424,500 won, extending
yesterday’s 8.9 percent surge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at 
 nicojohnson@bloomberg.net . 