-- Asylum Seekers Killed as Their Boat Sinks Off Australia's Christmas Island
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-12-15T09:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/asylum-seekers-killed-as-their-boat-sinks-off-australia-s-christmas-island.html
A boat carrying people suspected of
seeking asylum in Australia capsized in heavy seas close to
Christmas Island, killing several passengers. Customs officials
have pulled 27 bodies from the water, Sky News said.  “A people smuggler’s boat has crashed into rocks and some
bodies have been retrieved,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan , who is
heading the government while Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is on
leave, told reporters in Sydney today in a media conference
broadcast on Sky. “A number of people have been rescued. The
priority of officials is the rescue at this stage.” He said he
had briefed Gillard on the situation.  Island residents tossed life jackets and ropes to people
thrown into the water after their vessel overturned early today,
witnesses told Sky News. Federal police and Customs officials
were earlier unable to confirm the broadcaster’s report of 41
survivors from between 70 and 80 passengers. The passengers were
mainly from Iraq and Iran, the Australian Broadcasting Corp.
reported today.  Gillard will return from vacation for briefings tonight.  “This has been a tragic event and it will be some time
before there is a full picture of what has happened,” she said
in an e-mailed statement.  Christmas Island, about 1,600 miles (2,600 kilometers)
northwest of Perth, houses a center for people claiming refugee
status. Almost 6,400 asylum seekers from countries including
Iraq and Sri Lanka have arrived by boat in Australia this year,
up from 2,726 in 2009.  Election Issue  Dealing with the rising number of asylum seekers was a
central issue in August’s national election. Gillard promised a
regional center to process asylum claims in a bid to stem the
flow. Opposition Liberal-National leader  Tony Abbott  said he
would restrict the illegal entry of asylum seekers by boat and
impose tougher rules on people who were waiting for their claims
to be processed.  Some 12 asylum seekers were killed after their boat sank
off the northwestern coast in November, 2009. In 2001, 353
people drowned in a bid to reach Australia.  The Australian Federal  Police  is responding to a “maritime
incident,” the agency said on its website. “Our paramount
priority is the safety of all involved,” the Customs agency
 said  on its site.  “There have been a large number of fatalities and numerous
injuries to those aboard the vessel, including women and
children,” Western Australian Premier  Colin Barnett  said in an
e-mailed statement, adding that a disaster victims
identification team was on stand-by. “Conditions in the ocean
off Christmas Island are extremely dangerous.”  An unidentified doctor involved in the rescue told Sky that
many survivors had severe injuries, including head trauma and
broken limbs, and might die before they could reach the nearest
hospitals.  There are currently 2,735 people at the Christmas Island
refugee center, according to Immigration Department figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  