-- Acciona Pulls Out of Australian Solar Program on Doubts Over Profitability
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-12-16T01:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/australia-receives-seven-applications-for-a-1-5-billion-solar-flagships.html
Acciona SA , Spain’s second-biggest
wind farm operator, pulled out of Australia’s A$1.5 billion
($1.5 billion) solar funding program, saying it’s unable to
forecast whether a proposed venture would be profitable.  Seven of the eight proposed solar projects picked earlier
this year to advance in the contest for government funding have
submitted final applications, Fiona Scott, a spokeswoman for
Energy Minister  Martin Ferguson , said today.  BP Plc ,  AGL Energy Ltd. , and  CLP Holdings Ltd.  unit
TRUenergy Holdings Pty were selected by Australia to advance in
a competition for funding from its Solar Flagships program. A
proposal from  Suntech Power Holdings Co.  of China and
Australia’s  Infigen Energy  was also among those shortlisted in
the category of companies aiming to develop projects using
photovoltaic panels to turn sunlight into power.  Acciona’s plan would require “substantial capital” and
the project’s “financial performance cannot be accurately
forecast,” the company said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Uncertainty in the energy markets in Australia and the absence
of an offtake contract were contributing factors.”  Madrid-based  Acciona  expects “significant opportunities”
in the Australian solar market during the next decade and is
committed to pursuing projects in the country, it said.  The Acciona joint venture was among the projects chosen in
the solar thermal category with Parsons Brinckerhoff, Transfield
Holdings and Wind Prospect CWP, the government has said.  A decision by the Australian government on the funding is
scheduled for mid 2011, Ferguson said today in a statement. The
program is intended to help meet a government target of
generating 20 percent of the country’s power from renewable
energy by 2020.  "Solar Flagships projects will demonstrate the commercial
operation of large-scale solar power in Australia’s competitive
electricity markets,"  Ferguson said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 