-- Layton Says Canada Still Needs ‘Targeted Stimulus’
-- B y   P a u l   B a d e r t s c h e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-12-15T23:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/layton-says-canadian-economy-needs-targeted-stimulus-in-upcoming-budget.html
Jack Layton , leader of the smallest
opposition group in Canada’s Parliament, said the governing
Conservatives should continue implementing “targeted stimulus”
to help  create employment  and support Canadians hurt by the
recession.  Layton, whose party holds the balance of power in
Parliament along with two other opposition parties, said Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper  should abandon plans to cut corporate
income taxes, and instead extend employment insurance benefits,
provide funding for housing and infrastructure, and support
manufacturing.  “We’ll see whether Mr. Harper is in the mood to work with
other parties or not,” Layton said in an interview at his
Ottawa office. “This across-the-board tax cut approach that Mr.
Harper has used, which is ideological but not efficient, doesn’t
produce jobs and frankly doesn’t get the results that Canadians
need.”  Harper’s finance minister,  Jim Flaherty , is seeking to make
Canada the first country in the Group of Seven to balance its
budget by 2015, even as he cuts corporate income taxes and faces
a weak global recovery that threatens to slow revenue.  Flaherty has pledged to eliminate Canada’s deficit through
spending restraint and move ahead with corporate tax cuts. He
has said that calls from opposition lawmakers for new spending
programs and tax increases would jeopardize the  economic
recovery .  Fiscal Plan  Opposition lawmakers will have an opportunity to defeat the
government’s 2011 fiscal plan when it’s introduced in the
legislature next year.  To pass legislation and stay in power, the Conservatives
need the support of at least one of the country’s three
opposition parties. The Conservatives hold 143 of the 308 seats
in the House of Commons, the Liberals hold 77, the Bloc
Quebecois 47 and the New Democrats 36. There are 2 independents
and three vacancies.  The NDP is proposing “practical steps to help the people
that are struggling,” Layton, 60, said.  Layton also said Industry Minister  Tony Clement ’s decision
today to delay new guidelines for foreign investors until next
year was a “cop out,” and said the country needs a new
investment review process that is transparent and allows
affected communities to have a say.  Layton said in October that Canada should protect its
“strategic jewels” from takeovers by foreign companies. New
Democrats opposed  BHP Billiton Ltd .’s hostile bid for Potash
Corp of Saskatchewan Inc. and the possible sale of MacDonald
Dettwiler Inc., the Canadian maker of the robotic arm used in
space shuttles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Badertscher in Ottawa at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net ;
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 