-- BofA Says Investors Extend Deadline in Putback Fight
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-12-15T22:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/bank-of-america-says-investors-agree-to-extend-mortgage-dispute-deadlines.html
Bank of America Corp. , facing
demands from institutional investors that it buy back billions
of dollars in soured mortgages, said some bondholders will delay
action as it conducts “constructive” talks.  “Certain investors” agreed to extend deadlines that were
set by an Oct. 18 letter, the lender said in a statement today,
without identifying them. Firms including Pacific Investment
Management Co.,  BlackRock Inc.  and the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York  had demanded the bank repurchase loans packaged into
$47 billion of bonds by its Countrywide Financial Corp. unit,
people familiar with the letter said at the time.  “The extension will go on as long as the parties are
engaged in a constructive discussion,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a
spokesman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank. “As we
have said all along, if there is a valid claim, we will act
responsibly. If there is no defect, we will defend our interests
and the interests of our shareholders.”  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said in November
the bank would engage in “hand-to-hand combat” to fend off
unwarranted buyback demands from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as
well as bond insurers and private investors who want to return
loans. Pending putback claims rose to $12.9 billion by Sept. 30
from $7.7 billion at the end of 2009, the lender has said.  Parties to the Talks  MetLife Inc. , the biggest U.S. life insurer, is also part
of the investor group with BlackRock, the world’s largest money
manager, and Pimco, which runs the biggest bond fund, people
familiar with the matter said in October. They are represented
by Gibbs & Bruns LLP.  The accord announced today was reached among the bank’s
home-servicing unit, Gibbs & Bruns, and Bank of New York Mellon
Corp., the debt’s trustee, according to Bank of America’s
statement.  “The claims and defenses of all parties are preserved,”
the company wrote in the statement.  The bank climbed 31 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $12.60 in
extended  trading  at 5:32 p.m. in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  