-- Bank of America’s Nierenberg, Trian’s May, Honored for Charity
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/bank-of-america-s-nierenberg-trian-s-may-honored-for-charity.html
After hearing stories about his
mother being forced from her home in Holland by the Nazis during
World War II,  Michael B. Nierenberg  vowed one day to help other
Jews fleeing persecution.  In March 1992, while a mortgage trader at  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc ., Nierenberg helped sponsor an airplane flight for
Jewish immigrants fleeing from Kiev to Israel through the UJA-
Federation of New York’s support of  Operation Exodus .  “My mom and her family had to give art to the Nazis to
leave Holland, and from Holland they went to Spain and then got
on a boat to Jamaica,” said Nierenberg, 48, the head of  Bank of
America  Merrill Lynch’s global mortgage and securitized products
business, in a telephone interview. “So I thought Operation
Exodus was a good way to get involved in this cause. That was my
first entree into learning about the UJA.”  Nierenberg will be honored tonight, along with Trian Fund
Management LP’s  Peter W. May , who chaired UJA’s Exodus effort,
at the federation’s annual Wall Street Dinner tonight.  May will receive the organization’s Gustave L. Levy Award
for his commitment to UJA over the past three decades and his
work as the initial overseer of its aid effort for Exodus, said
John Ruskay, UJA’s chief executive officer. May helped raise
about $178 million from New York’s UJA members for the Exodus
program from 1990 to 1997, Ruskay said in a phone interview.  “He’s a man of impeccable integrity and judgment, and he
serves as a role model for so many of the next generation,”
Ruskay said.  Leadership Award  Nierenberg will receive UJA’s Young Leadership Award for
his support during the past two decades. The event is expected
to raise $19.5 million, or $500,000 more than last year’s
affair.  The evening will start with a cocktail reception before May
and Nierenberg receive their honors. Human-rights activist  Natan Sharansky , chairman of the Jewish Agency for Israel, will
deliver the keynote address, and David Moore, CEO of Moore
Holdings and a professional comedian, will serve as emcee.  Expected attendees include Trian CEO  Nelson Peltz ; JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Vice Chairman Emeritus  Alan “Ace” Greenberg ; Jerry
W. Levin, chairman and CEO of Wilton Brands Inc.; Loews Corp.
CEO  James S. Tisch ; and  Daniel S. Och , CEO of Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group.  “The event is pretty magical,” Nierenberg said about the
UJA fundraiser. “It’s a wonderful thing to see our group make a
difference in people’s lives and to see UJA promote a very
strong culture of giving.”  (The dinner is tonight at the New York Hilton hotel, Sixth
Avenue at 53rd Street in Manhattan at 6:30 p.m. Tickets are $350
for the dinner and after-party or $125 for after-party only.
Information: +1-212-836-1542.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
pcole3bloomberg.net.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 