-- Berlusconi Taps ‘Gut Instinct,’ Makes Voters Accomplices: Books
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2010-12-15T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/berlusconi-taps-italy-s-gut-instincts-makes-voters-accomplices-books.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ,
who survived a no-confidence vote in the Italian parliament
yesterday, is nothing if not a survivor. If you’re wondering
why,  Beppe Severgnini  has a ready answer.  “You’ll find a little Berlusconi in every single
Italian,” the columnist for daily Corriere della Sera says in a
phone interview from his home in Crema, 50 kilometers (30 miles)
southeast of Milan. “Berlusconi is a master of making us feel
like his accomplices. He’s winking at us. He says, ‘I’m one of
you, come on!’”  Severgnini, a former correspondent for the Economist, is
fed up with foreign friends asking how the 74-year-old media
tycoon managed to win three elections in spite of sex scandals
that prompted his wife to file for a divorce after publicly
accusing him of “consorting with minors.” It’s always the same
question, says the best-selling author: “Why, why, why?”  So Severgnini devotes his latest book, “La Pancia Degli
Italiani” (“Italy’s Gut Instincts”), to listing 10 reasons
voters support Berlusconi even though they’re aware of “his
appetites, limits and methods.”  It’s too easy, he says, to pin Berlusconi’s success on his
control of the news media through state-owned television and his
broadcasting company,  Mediaset SpA . The deeper truth is that the
former cruise-ship crooner seduced Italians by tapping their
psyche and imitating them, the 53-year-old journalist says.  Money, Jokes, Women  “He adores his kids, talks about his mamma, knows his
football, makes money, loves new homes, hates rules, tells
jokes, swears a bit, adores women. Don’t you think that that
applies to many Italians you and I know?”  Berlusconi understands that appearances can trump coherence
in Italy, Severgnini says.  “Accountability and consistency are not words that are
easily translated into Italian,” he says. “He extols the
church in the morning, the family in the afternoon, and brings
girlfriends home in the evening. The Italian left keeps telling
us what to do; Berlusconi forgives us for what we’ve done.”  When  L’Espresso  news magazine last year released tapes of
what it identified as conversations between Berlusconi and a
high-priced call girl, the prime minister had a simple answer.  “I’m no saint,” he said during a speech in the northern
city of Brescia. “You all know that.”  Nightclub Dancer  Then came news reports that the premier helped secure the
release of a 17-year-old nightclub dancer arrested for theft.
Berlusconi said he had phoned the police just to check on her.  Yesterday’s confidence vote triggered a backlash in the
streets, where protesters battled police and burned cars. Yet
even with Berlusconi’s popularity at record lows, recent polls
indicate that the premier’s coalition might win re-election.  Italians are realists, Severgnini says. They have become
disillusioned with politicians and tend to vote for what is
useful, not for what is right. Berlusconi makes attractive
promises to lower taxes and to fight immigration and
bureaucracy. He’s also Italy’s third-richest man, according to
 Forbes  magazine.  Berlusconi’s success in business is appealing in a country
that prizes individualism and resourcefulness,  Severgnini  says.
Every Italian seeks to cut corners or has had conflicts of
interest, he explains. The difference is that Berlusconi is “a
pro, not an amateur.”  Medieval ‘Signore’  All of this makes Berlusconi’s voters reminiscent of their
ancestors, who gave their fealty to the local “signore,” or
overlord, during the Middle Ages. A signore bases his support on
adulation and affection. He thinks about his glory, and his
subjects hope he will do something for them -- as do today’s
voters with Berlusconi.  “We’re just waiting for him to do something for us as
well,” Severgnini says. “We have given him a long time and he
hasn’t delivered, to be honest.”  What might the future hold?  “Every political story has a dawn and a sunset, and we’re
definitely much closer to the sunset,” Severgnini says.  Though Berlusconi is still electable, there’s a fine line
“between complicity and embarrassment, and I think Berlusconi
has crossed it.” The question now, he says, is whether the
prime minister will cross the line between embarrassment and
disgust.  Which brings us to a final reason why people vote for
Berlusconi: “There is no alternative.”  “La Pancia Degli Italiani: Berlusconi Spiegato ai
Posteri” is from  Rizzoli  in Italy (194 pages, 16 euros) and
will be published by  Blessing Verlag  in Germany this March as
“Ueberleben mit Berlusconi” (250 pages, 18.95 euros).  ( Marco Bertacche  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Marco Bertacche  in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net . 