-- Best Cookbooks Bake Brooklyn Bundts, Granny Gnocchi, Arty Bread
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2010-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/best-cookbooks-bake-brooklyn-bundts-granny-gnocchi-arty-bread.html
Forget celebrity chefs. This
season’s most appealing cookbooks are made for cooking, not
placing on the coffee table.  Sweet and Salty  “ Baked Explorations: Classic American Desserts
Reinvented ” by Matt Lewis and Renato Poliafito (Stewart, Tabori
& Chang, $29.95). The owners of Brooklyn’s  Baked  have a way of
making you want to try their offbeat recipes; when their first
book came out, I bought a bundt pan just to experience root beer
bundt cake. (Yum, by the way.)  Their second book features more of their favorite
ingredients -- malted-milk balls, espresso powder, Nutella.
There are updated vintage desserts like grasshopper bars, based
on the retro mint cocktails, and new classics like the sweet and
salty brownie, which is filled with dark caramel and topped with
sea salt.  New York Times  “ The Essential New York Times Cookbook: Classic Recipes
for a New Century ” by Amanda Hesser (Norton, $40). You could
sit down and read this like a novel -- and cook all your meals
from it. The chapters range from “Drinks, Cocktails, Punches
and Glogg” to “Pies, Tarts and Other Desserts”; within each
chapter the recipes are arranged in chronological order, showing
the evolution of American taste.  Hesser spent six years soliciting Times readers’ favorite
recipes, testing them and choosing more than 1,000 for the book.
She’s written a crisp note for each, giving some background
along with tips for updating. You can finally throw out your
yellowed clipping of Marion Burros’s plum torte.  Brooklyn Italian  “ The Frankies Spuntino Kitchen Companion and Cooking
Manual ” by Frank Falcinelli, Frank Castronovo and Peter Meehan
(Artisan, $24.95). This small, beautifully designed book sports
a faux-leather cover with gilt letters and gold-edged pages, and
no fancy dust jacket to get in the way while you’re cooking
meatballs and “Sunday sauce.” The two Franks have worked at
Michelin-starred restaurants and now produce Italian-American
classics made with local ingredients at their Brooklyn eateries.
Try Falcinelli’s grandmother’s potato gnocchi, and if you make
pork braciola marinara, be sure to pronounce it “bra-JOEL.”  Cooking With Nigella  “ Nigella Kitchen: Recipes From the Heart of the Home ” by
Nigella Lawson (Hyperion, $35). More substantial than her last
few TV tie-ins, this is a voluptuous yet useful book from the
queen of self-indulgence. Nigella advises you to make salad
dressing in almost-empty mustard jars, to “use the mustard
that’s left clinging to the base of the jar to add flavor to the
dressing.” Chapter titles like “What’s for Supper?” and
“Hurry Up! I’m Hungry!” promise hearty fare, while the gooey,
crumbly photos make the food look like you could actually
produce it at home. Recipes including ham hocks in cider and
carbonnade a la flamande make perfect winter meals.  Bread Master  “ Tartine Bread ” by Chad Robertson with photographs by
Eric Wolfinger (Chronicle, $40). Robertson makes it seem
reasonable to spend a decade perfecting a recipe for bread using
nothing but flour, water and salt. He started as an apprentice
in the Berkshire mountains of Massachusetts, spent a few years
in France, and now owns San Francisco’s Tartine bakery. The
centerpiece of this lovely book is a 38-page chapter on making
“basic country bread,” with clearly written descriptions of
how your homemade starter should look at each stage, how the
bread should feel as you knead it, and pages of photos to help
you bake your own loaf.  To buy these books in North America, click  here .  ( Laurie Muchnick  is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
 Laurie Muchnick  in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 