-- Best Restaurants of 2010 Offer Truffles, Octo-Dogs: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2010-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/best-restaurants-of-2010-offer-truffles-octo-dogs-ryan-sutton.html
The recession special is dead. Two
years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, New York is finally
in the midst of the Great Restaurant Recovery. Unlike 2009, the
year of tragic closing, 2010 has brought us some major openings.
And re-openings.  Pies ‘n’ Thighs, after a long shutter, is again serving
Williamsburg hipsters hot sauce-topped mac and cheese. Cafe Des
Artistes, left to gather dust two Augusts ago, will reopen in
2011 under a new name. And April Bloomfield’s John Dory, whose
remnants are still visible in West Chelsea, was reborn in
Midtown. A tiny cup of lobster chowder is $14 bucks.  Masa, New York’s most expensive place to eat, hiked its
sushi omakase back up to $450; it had charged $50 less in the
depths of the downturn. And  Mario Batali ’s Del Posto, despite
its uneven cuisine, moved to a prix-fixe format and raised its
costliest tasting to $500.  Minetta Tavern charged $36 for their strip steak in 2009.
Now it’s $48. The two-Michelin star Brooklyn Fare’s set menu,
which cost $95 per person, is still underpriced at $135. It’s
outstanding. It’s a two-month wait to get in.  This isn’t just inflation. This is pricing power.  Higher Meyer  Eleven Madison Park, whose three-course dinner menu was $88
a few Augusts ago, now sets its dinner minimum at $125 for a
longer tasting. When I tried walking in last month, the maitre’d
shook his head. Even the private rooms upstairs were full.  Same day tables for two at Per Se, once common, are tougher
to come by. The $275-per-person venue is mostly booked a month
out. So I went into the restaurant’s a la carte salon and had
the best meal of the year. Caviar was involved, as was a killer
dish of $175 risotto.  The new $20 million Lincoln, where former-Per Se chef
Jonathan Benno now cooks, isn’t faring quite as well. It cut
prices across the board after mixed reviews; the tasting menu
dropped ten bucks to $110. That’s still expensive Italian.  The year also brought supermarket Italian (Eataly),
Italian-American (Torrisi), Gramercy Park Italian (Maialino),
avant-garde Italian (Il Matto) and Bowery Italian (Pulino’s).
Michael White gave us way-too-fatty Italian (Morini) and hotel
Italian (Ai Fiori).  The Bad  Scott Conant gave us crummy Italian (Faustina), confirming
his role as the next Todd English, a talented chef more
interested in expansion than improving his existing venues.  But The Lion, John DeLucie’s celebrity hangout, was by far
the worst restaurant of the year. His tuna spaghetti is a sad
copy of Jean Georges’s great dish. His gummy pappardelle evokes
a high school cafeteria mishap, and the $85 truffle burger has
no truffle flavor.  Enough with the bad. Here were the best spots of 2010:  10. Kajitsu: This isn’t American fake-meat vegetarianism.
It also isn’t the European “butter, cheese and egg” approach
to no meat. This is the Japanese-Buddhist “soy, buckwheat and
burdock” way. I’ll say more about this great Shojin spot, which
serves vegetable tasting menus, in 2011.  9. Brooklyn Fare: My 20-course meals at Cesar Ramirez’s 18-
seat spot realized my hope that one of our city’s great
restaurants finally lies in Kings’ County. But I’m not sure
whether such a tough-to-get-into den deserves a four-star
rating. I’ll give a full review in the New Year.  8. Eataly: New Yorkers prefer to eat out rather than to
cook, so it’s good that Mario Batali’s 50,000 square foot
supermarket has 13 places to eat. The bad part is you’re stuck
eating in a supermarket. Still, there’s stellar vitello tonnato
at Manzo and Le Verdure serves a lasagna that bests Del Posto’s.  7. Peels & Seersucker: The year’s best Southern joints.
Peels feeds us smoky shrimp & grits on the Bowery. Brooklyn’s
Seersucker dishes the city’s best fried chicken.  6. The Mark & ABC Kitchen: The former is a French-American
joint for the Upper East Side’s Gagosian crowd; the latter is a
green-themed barnyard joint for the Prius-set. Both prove that
 Jean-Georges Vongerichten  can rule the haute-casual zeitgeist
with his $20 takes on pizza (with truffles), burgers (with
truffles) and fried chicken (fancily deboned).  5. Colicchio & Sons and Riverpark: Tom Colicchio can expand
all he wants because he puts solid restaurants in neighborhoods
that need them (Kips Bay, far West Chelsea) and gives us
refined, creative American fare. Think octopus in hot dog buns.  4. Maialino:  Danny Meyer ’s Italian joint crafts the city’s
best chicken soup. Chef Nick Anderer spins white noodles out of
eggs and forges copper-toned broth from bird wings. It should be
canned to compete with Campbell’s.  3. Torrisi Italian Specialties: Seven courses. Fifty bucks.
Smothered pork chops, organ-meat ragu, tomato bread. Enough
said.  2. Ma Peche: Sometimes this Momofuku spot is haute-
Vietnamese, like steak tartare with shrimp chips. Sometimes it’s
French, like gnocchi with black truffle shavings the width of
baseballs. Sometimes it’s avant-garde American, like a grassy,
nutty, sous-vide steak. The 45-minute wait last Thursday is
proof chef that Tien Ho can make midtown a destination.  1. The Breslin: In our city’s fat-obsessed (and male-
dominated) culinary world, April Bloomfield has blessed us with
balance. She cuts smoky-sweet lamb ribs with piquant tomatoes,
the U.K. response to American BBQ. She pairs a crispy poussin
with a powerful vinegar sauce; it’s like Buffalo wings without
the spice.  Bloomfield has created the restaurant of the year, a
deservedly packed British gastropub in the Irish-bar Penn
Station district. Eat up.  ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 