-- Asylum-Seeker Boat Sinking Death Toll of 28 Likely to Climb, Gillard Says
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-12-16T08:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/boat-sinking-kills-28-asylum-seekers-australia-s-gillard-cuts-leave-short.html
Twenty-eight Iraqi, Iranian and
Kurdish asylum seekers are confirmed dead after a wooden boat
bound for Australia sank in heavy seas close to Christmas Island
in the deadliest such incident in almost a decade.  “Of those 28 bodies, a number are young people and
children,” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  told reporters in
Sydney today, adding that 42 people have so far been rescued.
“We’ve got to prepare ourselves for the likelihood that more
bodies will be found.”  Gillard said the boat wasn’t detected before it crashed
onto rocks because it was dark and the weather was poor. Forty-
five Australian Federal Police as well as customs officers
arrived on the island yesterday as a disaster identification
unit began work and Western Australia state’s coroner prepared
to investigate the sinking, police said in a statement.  It is the deadliest such incident since 2001 when 353
people drowned in a bid to reach Australia. The 19-meter Siev-X
sank in waters south of Indonesia, with only 44 survivors.  Among the dead were 12 adult males, nine adult females, two
juvenile males, one juvenile female, one infant male and three
infant females, the Australian Customs and Border Protection
Service said in a  statement . The service has ordered a review of
the incident, it said.  Desperate Residents  Television images broadcast yesterday showed island
residents tossing life jackets and ropes to people thrown into
the water after the vessel crashed. Witnesses told Sky News of a
desperate bid to rescue the occupants and that they watched as
many perished.  “Those memories will be with them for their life,”
Gillard said. She said it was still unclear how many people were
on the boat before it hit the rocks.  Christmas Island, about 1,600 miles (2,600 kilometers)
northwest of Perth, houses a center for people claiming refugee
status. Almost 6,400 asylum seekers from countries including
Iraq and Sri Lanka have arrived by boat in Australia this year,
up from 2,726 in 2009.  “This vessel was not being tracked,” Home Affairs
Minister Brendan O’Connor told Sky News from Christmas Island
today. “We have very low visibility on occasion, as was the
case yesterday and today. The boats are normally constructed by
wood, which means radar detection is nigh on impossible.”  ‘Human Tragedy’  The issue of asylum seekers was a point of difference in
Australia’s national election in August. Gillard promised a
regional center to process asylum claims in a bid to stem the
flow. Opposition Liberal-National leader  Tony Abbott  said he
would restrict the illegal entry of asylum seekers by boat and
impose tougher rules on people waiting for their claims to be
processed.  Opposition immigration spokesman Scott Morrison said
yesterday’s boat crash was a “human tragedy.” He said five
days ago that close to 200 boats had arrived in the country this
year and that the Labor government had failed to implement
policies to stop the arrivals. Both comments were made in a
statement.  Since winning office in November 2007, Labor has moved to
dismantle former leader  John Howard ’s policy of detaining
refugees in island camps and has pledged to speed up the process
of assessing claims for asylum.  The Australian government in 2008 closed detention centers
on the Pacific island of Nauru and on Manus, a province in Papua
New Guinea.  U.S. diplomatic officials in Australia criticized Gillard’s
predecessor  Kevin Rudd  over his handling of asylum seekers, the
Sydney Morning Herald reported today, citing a U.S. cable
released by WikiLeaks. The U.S. embassy said combating the
smuggling of people was a crucial test for Rudd, the newspaper
cited the cables as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  