-- Boeing Missile System Misses Target for Second Time This Year, U.S. Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-12-15T22:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/boeing-missile-defense-system-fails-to-hit-target-u-s-says.html
The U.S. missile-defense system
managed by  Boeing Co.  failed to intercept a target in a test
today, the second unsuccessful attempt this year.  The Missile Defense Agency “was unable to achieve a
planned intercept of a target over the Pacific Ocean,”  Richard Lehner , a spokesman, said in a  statement  today. Lehner said both
the test interceptor and target successfully launched.  The  Raytheon Co.  “hit to kill” interceptor also
successfully released from the intercept to hunt the target and
a Boeing designed sea-based radar “performed as planned,”
Lehner said.  “Program officials will conduct an extensive investigation
to determine the cause of the failure,” Lehner said.  The test repeated a Jan. 31 exercise that  failed  to
intercept the target because of a classified glitch with the
sea-based  radar . Under a 1998 accord, Boeing is the prime
contractor for the system and oversees interceptor boosters,
warheads, radars, and command and control equipment.  The last successful intercept was on December 2008 for the
system designed to defend the United States from a small number
of missiles fired from Iran or North Korea.  Prior to today’s attempt, the program has accomplished 8
successes in 14 tests since 1999.  There are 26 missiles in silos at Fort Greely, Alaska, and
four at California’s Vandenberg Air Force Base.  In the 12 years Boeing has had the approximately $18
billion contract, it has overseen testing and development of
interceptors made by  Orbital Sciences Corp.  of Dulles, Virginia;
warheads by Waltham, Massachusetts-based Raytheon; and command
and control software made by Los Angeles-based  Northrop Grumman
Corp.   The contract ends next year. The MDA is completing the work
in a program worth as much as $10 billion. It issued  Dec. 2 a
request for proposals  on a 7-year contract for future
development, fielding and sustainment of the system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  