-- Boeing Says No Agreement on Extending Export-Credit as Deal Deadline Looms
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2010-12-15T13:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/boeing-says-no-agreement-on-extending-export-credit-as-deal-deadline-looms.html
Boeing Co . said there has been no
agreement on extending state loan guarantees to airlines in the
home countries of planemakers as the deadline for a deal nears.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
is still considering the extension of export credit to the U.S.,
where Boeing is based, and the four home nations of European
rival Airbus SAS, said  Kostya Zolotusky , managing director for
financial services at Boeing, which is involved in the talks.  “This is still being negotiated and is still a contentious
issue,” Zolotusky said at a briefing in London, adding that
Chicago-based Boeing is managing its business on the assumption
that a decision of some kind will be in place by Jan. 1.  The cost of state-guaranteed loans is likely to increase as
a consequence of a new agreement, the executive said.  “More expensive credit if you’re a buyer is not good, but
home-market buyers like it,” he said. Airlines that rely on the
loans to fund purchases “need to look at some airplanes being
done commercially, some by lessors and some on export credit.”  Delta Air Lines Inc. and  British Airways Plc  are among 24
U.S. and European carriers lobbying for a change to an export-
credit regime they say has given an edge to rival airlines in
Asia and the Middle East. The companies said in October that the
loans shouldn’t be cheaper than bank financing and should be
limited to 20 percent of deliveries.  Emirates Concern  Ireland’s  Ryanair Holdings Plc , Dubai-based Emirates and
eight other airlines said Nov. 25 they’ll support the extension
of export-credit support to carriers barred from receiving it
provided the guarantees aren’t curbed or made more costly.  The airlines say there must be no increase in fees, no
limit on the amount of credit extended and no reduction in the
proportion of the cost of an aircraft that can be financed.  The extension of export credit to “home” airlines would be
politically sensitive where state support isn’t being provided
to industries in a worse state than aviation, Zolotusky said.  The OECD’s rule revision, which could be signed in the new
year but backdated to Jan. 1, would have the greatest cost
impact on jets made by Canada’s  Bombardier Inc . and  Embraer SA 
of Brazil, which will be included for the first time, he said.  “It’s a major change,” Zolotusky said. “It means regional-
jet finance will be more expensive.”  For airline purchases, other factors will help mitigate the
increased cost of loan guarantees, the Boeing executive said.  “We’ve had continuous momentum in greater liquidity and
declining spreads in capital financing,” he said. “That momentum
will offset increased costs of more expensive export credits. So
the cost of financing will stay about steady. Capital market
financing has the potential to be even cheaper next year.”  Zolotusky said the revised agreement is unlikely to curb
jetliner sales, which depend more on the economy.  “My view is that export credit does not drive demand of
aircraft,” he said. “The tail does not wag the dog.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  