-- Bovespa Index Retreats for Second Day on Commodities Drop, Europe Concern
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-12-15T20:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/bovespa-stock-index-futures-slip-on-commodities-drop-concern-about-europe.html
The  Bovespa  stock index fell for a
second day as traders raised bets for higher borrowing costs and
a credit rating review for Spain spurred concern Europe’s debt
crisis may stall the global economic recovery.  Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron-ore miner, declined as
metals prices retreated.  Fibria Celulose SA  led a tumble for
pulp producers after the stock was stripped of its “buy”
rating by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on price concern. Homebuilder
 MRV Engenharia e Participacoes SA  sank the most in more than a
year after its president,  Rubens Menin Teixeira Souza , sold 7
percent of his stake in the company.  “It’s a time to be more cautious,” said  Roni Lacerda , who
helps manage 2.8 billion reais ($1.6 billion) at Rio de Janeiro-
based Mercatto Gestao de Recursos. “Brazil’s outlook is good,
but inflation in China is a concern and the Europe ghost keeps
lingering.”  The  Bovespa  index lost 1.3 percent to 67,870.14. Fifty-one
stocks fell on the index while 15 rose. The  BM&FBovespa Small
Cap index  slipped 1.1 percent. The real weakened 0.7 percent to
1.7095 per dollar today.  Commodities and emerging-market stocks fell after a report
showed Chinese consumers signaled their deepest concern with
inflation since 1999. Moody’s Investors Service placed Spain’s
Aa1 debt rating on review for a possible downgrade, fueling
concern that Europe’s debt crisis will spread. The Bloomberg
Base Metals Spot Price Commodity  Index  tumbled 1.6 percent, the
biggest decline in three weeks.  Pulp Prices  Goldman Sachs lowered its near-term pulp-price forecast by
about 5 percent to $872 per metric ton on average in 2011, and
reduced its recommendation on Fibria to “neutral.” Fibria fell
3.3 percent, the most in a month, to 26.94 reais. Rival Suzano
Papel e Celulose SA dropped 0.3 percent to 15.55 reais.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who will retain his post
under President-elect  Dilma Rousseff , announced measures to
boost long-term lending. The government will cut income taxes
for companies that issue bonds of more than four years in
duration and that are linked to infrastructure investments in
the country.  The government plans to cut funding for its state
development bank by 50 percent next year to wean companies off
subsidized loans and reduce the world’s second-highest
inflation-adjusted interest rates. Brazil is boosting
infrastructure spending as it prepares to host the World Cup in
2014 and Olympics in 2016.  Minimum Wage  Planning Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said the government would
honor its agreement with unions to raise the minimum wage to 540
reais a month next year.  Bernardo, speaking to reporters in Brasilia, said the
government would make a “big cut” in spending next year. He
didn’t provide details.  MRV Engenharia e Participacoes , Brazil’s fifth-biggest
real-estate company by revenue, sank 6.4 percent to 15.32 reais,
the biggest drop since Sept. 1, 2009. MRV’s Souza reduced his
stake in the company to 32.1 percent from 34.6 percent,
according to a regulatory filing.  “It’s a bad sign, especially since he has such a
significant stake in the company,” said  Armando Halfeld , an
analyst at Ativa Corretora in Rio de Janeiro. “The whole sector
looks to be down on rate concern.”  Brookfield Incorporacoes SA sank 2.7 percent to 8.24 reais.
 Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes ,
Brazil’s biggest homebuilder by revenue, plunged 4.6 percent to
19.72 reais.  Rate Outlook  Brazil’s economic expansion gained momentum in October,
reinforcing expectations that the central bank will raise
borrowing costs in January to bring inflation back to its
target.  Traders in interest-rate futures raised bets for higher
borrowing costs, pushing yields on the contract due January 2012
up 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 11.87 percent.  Braskem SA rose 1.1 percent to 18.65 reais. The stock was
raised to “buy” from “underperform” at Bank of America Corp.
on the outlook for strong demand over the next three to five
years. Bank of America raised its price target for Braskem to 24
reais a share from 12 reais a share, analyst  Frank McGann  wrote
in a report to clients dated Dec. 14.  Cia de Bebidas das Americas, Latin America’s largest
brewer, advanced 1.9 percent to 243.01 reais after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analyst  Alan Alanis  raised the stock to an
“overweight” rating from “neutral”.  The  Bovespa index  slipped 0.4 percent this year through
last week as concern Europe’s debt crisis and rising borrowing
costs in China will slow demand for exports offset speculation
the fastest growth in two decades will bolstered earnings
prospects.  The gauge still trades for 10.6 times analysts’ 2011
earnings estimates, less than the 13.1 price-to-earnings ratio
for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The  Shanghai Composite
Index  trades for 13.2 times profits, Russia’s  Micex  trades at
7.2 times and India’s  Sensex  trades at a ratio of 15.7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  