-- BP Buys Europe Gasoline, Prices Drop; Gasoil Fell: Oil Products
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2010-12-15T13:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/bp-buys-european-gasoline-prices-drop-ice-gasoil-decline-oil-products.html
European gasoline fell even as BP
Plc bought barges amid a weaker crude and an industry report
showing an increase in U.S. stockpiles of the motor fuel. Gasoil
fell on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Light Products  Eurobob grade gasoline barges for immediate loading in
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp traded twice at $802 a metric ton
from Trafigura Beheer BV to BP, according to a survey of
brokers and traders monitoring the Argus Bulletin Board. That’s
down from $806 to $813 yesterday. Ethanol is added to Eurobob
grade to make the finished fuel.  The  gasoline crack , or premium to Brent crude, was at $4.60
a barrel, according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a
broker in London. The crack narrowed 25 cents from yesterday,
falling to the lowest level since Nov. 23.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles rose 2.42 million barrels to 222.4
million barrels last week, the American Petroleum Institute
reported yesterday.  Middle Distillates  Gasoil for January delivery on the ICE exchange fell $5.25
to $760 a ton at 1:31 p.m. The heating fuel has gained almost 8
percent since Nov. 23, boosted by colder weather.  Gasoil’s crack , a measure of refining profit, narrowed to
$11.06 a barrel, down 35 cents from yesterday. Brent crude for
January fell 0.4 percent to $90.85 a barrel.  European refined product markets are comfortably supplied
given the end of U.S. refinery maintenance season and higher
output from European refineries after French strike disruptions
in October,  Olivier Jakob , managing director of Switzerland-
based consultant Petromatrix, said by phone.  “Compared to two months ago, there’s quite a lot of
refining capacity online,” Jakob said. “The demand for the
products somehow needs to keep up with the additional supply of
the products, and for now it’s not.”  Refinery News  The restart of Valero Energy Corp.’s Aruba refinery could
put pressure on oil-product cracks in Europe and the U.S., Mike
Wittner, New York-based head of oil market research at Societe
Generale SA, said in a report dated yesterday. The  Aruba
refinery  has the capacity to process 235,000 barrels of crude
oil a day, according Valero.  “Caribbean capacity will be ramping up; this could be
bearish for margins, or if the current U.S. and European cold
snaps continue, limit any upside for margins,” Wittner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  