-- BP Said to Seek Buyers for Canadian Gas Assets That May Fetch $2 Billion
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2010-12-15T18:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/bp-said-to-seek-buyers-for-canadian-gas-assets-that-may-fetch-2-billion.html
BP Plc  is seeking buyers for a
system of plants and pipelines in Canada that may fetch $2
billion or more, said people with knowledge of the matter, as
the oil company moves to exit slower-growing businesses.  The London-based oil producer tapped Credit Suisse Group AG
to look for buyers of the assets that handle natural-gas liquids
such as propane and ethane, the people said, speaking on
condition of anonymity because the talks are private. Midstream
energy companies such as Calgary’s Provident Energy Trust and
infrastructure funds may be among the potential suitors when the
auction starts next year, the people said.  BP is shedding mature assets after the spill at its Macondo
well in the Gulf of Mexico left it facing a bill projected to
reach $40 billion and forced the resignation of Chief Executive
Officer  Tony Hayward . The oil company said in July it was
planning to sell $30 billion in assets. It has so far raised $21
billion selling fields from Colombia to Pakistan.  “BP is cleaning the closet,” said  Jason Kenney , an
analyst at ING Wholesale Banking in Edinburgh. “These are
infrastructure assets and they’ve offloaded their upstream gas
stuff, so this has become peripheral. BP has presented a much
accelerated divestment program that’s been very successful.”  Robert Wine , a BP spokesman in London, declined to comment.  BP sold other Canadian gas assets as part of a $7 billion
deal with Apache Corp. last month. The company’s remaining
pipelines and plants for liquid fuels may be useful for oil
sands production that relies on generating steam to separate
crude, ING’s Kenney said.  Fort Saskatchewan  BP’s natural gas liquids assets in Canada include
fractionation plants at Sarnia, Ontario, and Fort Saskatchewan
and Empress, Alberta, according to BP’s website.  For Provident, which has a minority stake in the Sarnia
plant, the BP assets would roughly double the company’s size.
Provident has a market valuation of about C$2.7 billion ($2.7
billion) including debt, and trades at about 9 times its last
twelve months’ earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.  Glen Nelson , an investor relations representative at
Provident, declined to comment.  Other companies in the natural gas liquids business that
may take a look include Keyera Facilities Income Fund in
Calgary, and Spectra Energy Corp. in Houston, the people said,
along with private-equity firms such as Riverstone Holdings LLC
and First Reserve Corp.  BP rose 3.5 pence to 476.6 pence in London. The shares have
dropped 21 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ; 