-- BP, Drilling Partners Sued by U.S. Government Over Gulf Oil Spill Damage
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-12-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/bp-sued-in-new-orleans-for-damages-by-u-s-over-gulf-of-mexico-oil-spill.html
Units of  BP Plc  and four other
companies were sued by the Obama administration over allegations
they violated environmental laws in the largest offshore oil
spill in U.S. history.  The lawsuit, filed yesterday in federal court in New
Orleans, is the first brought by the U.S. over the oil spill
caused by the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig in April.
The Justice Department’s civil investigation is continuing, as
is a probe of potential criminal violations.  The lawsuit seeks damages under the Clean Water Act and a
declaration that four of the defendants are liable under the Oil
Pollution Act for all removal costs and damages caused by the
oil spill, including damages to the environment, according to a
Justice Department statement. The lawsuit doesn’t ask for a
specified amount of damages.  “The United States has sustained, and will continue to
sustain significant costs and damages,” government lawyers said
in the complaint. The U.S. “seeks in this action the imposition
of Clean Water Act civil penalties for each barrel of oil that
the defendants discharged into the Gulf of Mexico.”  The Clean Water Act authorizes the U.S. to seek civil
penalties of $1,100 for each barrel of oil spilled, or in
certain circumstances, as much as $4,300 a barrel from the
companies involved, government lawyers said in a September
filing with court in New Orleans. The government reported in
August that 4.9 million barrels were spilled.  ‘Very Expensive’  The clean water law penalties and natural resource damage
claims expose BP to billions of dollars in potential damages,
said Philadelphia attorney  Fred Kuffler , an expert in marine
pollution litigation who isn’t involved in the case.  “This is going to be a very expensive piece of
litigation,” Kuffler said in an interview. “Somewhere along
the line, BP is going to decide, ‘We need to make a deal with
the government.’”  “We intend to prove that these violations caused or
contributed to this massive oil spill, and that the defendants
are therefore responsible -- under the Oil Pollution Act -- for
government removal costs, economic losses, and environmental
damages,” Attorney General  Eric Holder  said yesterday at a news
conference.  “We have not asked for damages at this point because it’s
going to take years to fully quantify what the damages are,”
 Tony West , an assistant attorney general who oversees the
Justice Department’s civil division, said at the news
conference.  Criminal Probe  The Justice Department is “at a different stage” with its
criminal investigation compared with the civil case, Holder
said. “We are moving as quickly as we can” on the criminal
investigation, said Holder, who didn’t give any timetable for
when it might conclude.  Yesterday’s lawsuit, said  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, “is
solely a statement of the government’s allegations and does not
in any manner constitute any finding of liability or any
judicial finding that the allegations have merit.”  “Alone among the parties, BP has stepped up to pay for the
clean-up of the oil, setting aside $20 billion to pay all
legitimate claims,” Dean said in an e-mail. “We took these
steps before any legal determination of responsibility and will
continue to fulfill our commitments in the Gulf as the legal
process unfolds.”  BP’s  American depositary receipts  fell as much as 2.6
percent to $43.29 in New York Stock Exchange trading after the
filing. The ADRs, each representing six ordinary shares, closed
yesterday at $43.86, down 58 cents.  Transocean, Anadarko  In addition to London-based BP, the owner of the well,
defendants in the lawsuit include units of Vernier, Switzerland-
based  Transocean Ltd. , which owned the rig,  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp.  and MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC, part owners of the well that
ruptured. Anadarko is based in The Woodlands, Texas. Mitsui &
Co. owns 70 percent of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., which holds
10 percent of the field where the Macondo well is located
through wholly owned U.S. subsidiary MOEX Offshore, according to
the Mitsui Oil website.  Transocean’s insurer, an underwriting unit of Sydney-based
 QBE Insurance Group Ltd. , also was named as a defendant, though
it can be held liable only up to the amount of insurance policy
coverage under the Oil Pollution Act and isn’t being sued under
the Clean Water Act.  “No drilling contractor has ever been held liable for
discharges from a well under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990,”
 Guy Cantwell , a Transocean spokesman, said yesterday in an
e-mail. “The responsibility for hydrocarbons discharged from a
well lies solely with its owner and operator.”  ‘No Authority’  MOEX Offshore said in an e-mailed statement that it is
reviewing the complaint.  “As a 10 percent non-operator, MOEX Offshore had no
authority or responsibility to direct activities on the
Deepwater Horizon,” the company said.  The lawsuit alleges violations of federal safety and
operational regulations that caused or contributed to the oil
spill that began when an explosion and fire destroyed the
Deepwater Horizon offshore drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico,
according to the statement.  Each defendant, other than the insurer, “caused or
contributed” to the spill, the U.S. said in yesterday’s
complaint. These defendants failed “to take necessary
precautions to keep the Macondo Well under control,” failed to
use “the best available and safest drilling technology,”
failed to protect personnel and failed to maintain equipment and
materials, the government said.  Drill Logs  The well partners’ joint operating agreement “required BP
to provide the Anadarko Defendants and MOEX with detailed
technical information regarding exploration and other operations
performed in connection with the lease, including applications
for and modifications of permits to drill, mud logs, mud checks
and other information,” the U.S. said in the complaint.  In exchange, Anadarko and MOEX got the right to receive
“daily reports, access to a secure website containing sampling
and other data, and access to real time data from the rig,” the
U.S. said.  “As a non-operating minority interest holder in the well,
we were not involved in the operations or decisions that
occurred on the drilling rig,”  John Christiansen , an Anadarko
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We recognize that we
may have obligations under federal law, and we will continue to
look to the operator to pay all legitimate claims as it has
committed to do.”  “We stand by our statement of June 18, that the operator’s
decisions and actions on the rig likely amount to gross
negligence and/or willful misconduct,” Christiansen said.  More Defendants  Other defendants and claims could be added later, Holder
said at the news conference.  Halliburton Co. , which provided the cement to plug the well,
wasn’t named as a defendant in the lawsuit.  BP captured 800,000 barrels of oil before the well was
capped on July 15, according to a report in August by a team of
government and academic scientists.  The company has set aside $40 billion to pay for cleanup
and litigation from the spill. The company returned to profit in
the third quarter with a net income of $1.8 billion after a
record loss in the second quarter.  Beyond the Clean Water Act penalties, the U.S. also can
seek damages for destruction of natural resources, loss of taxes
and royalties and removal costs under the Oil Pollution Act, the
government said in court papers in September.  Lawsuits Combined  The economic loss, environmental damage and personal injury
suits are combined in a multidistrict litigation before U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans for pretrial
organization and evidence-gathering, or discovery.  Lawyers in the combined lawsuits on behalf of thousands of
businesses and individuals filed a master complaint yesterday in
federal court in New Orleans.  BP and other companies connected to the well “ignored
crucial safety issues, cut corners and violated federal and
state law to save time and money in favor of production and
profit,” lawyers for thousands of businesses and individuals
claiming economic losses from the spill said in the complaint.
“Their cost-cutting measures were outrageous.”  Separate groups of suits by  BP shareholders  claiming
securities fraud or mismanagement are pending before a federal
judge in Houston.  The U.S. lawsuit will become part of multidistrict
litigation, according to the Justice Department statement.  The case is U.S. v. BP Exploration & Production Inc.,
10-04536, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans) The combined case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil
Rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
2:10-md-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 