-- Brazil to Cut Taxes to Stimulate Long-Term Credit for Infrastructure Drive
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2010-12-16T02:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/brazil-to-cut-tax-on-purchase-of-long-term-bonds-correct-.html
Brazil will cut taxes and provide
incentives to stimulate the domestic corporate debt market and
supply longer-term credit for infrastructure investments needed
to host the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympics.  As part of the measures announced yesterday by Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega , the state-run development bank known as
 BNDES  will set aside 10 billion reais ($5.8 billion) to purchase
longer-term debt issued by corporate borrowers, helping provide
liquidity to the secondary market for the paper.  Individual and foreign investors purchasing bonds with
maturities of at least four years and linked to infrastructure
projects will be exempted from paying taxes on their earnings,
Mantega said. Institutional buyers will see their tax rates
reduced to 15 percent from as high as 34 percent currently.  The new rules should boost local debt issuances to 70
billion reais per year, BNDES President Luciano Coutinho told
reporters in Brasilia. This year, companies raised 41 billion
reais, according to the Brazilian capital markets association
known as Anbima.  “Long-term credit was always scarce in the country, but in
the past it didn’t matter because there were so few investment
projects,” Mantega told reporters yesterday in Brasilia.
“Today there are projects that demand financing for 20, 25 or
30 years.”  Latin America’s biggest economy is ramping up  spending on
infrastructure as  it prepares to host the World Cup and Olympics
as well as develop the biggest oil discovery in the Americas
since 1976. The government plans to oversee 955 billion reais in
investment over the next four years.  Relieving BNDES  Mantega, who will continue as finance chief when President-
elect Dilma Rousseff takes office Jan. 1, said the measures will
ease the burden on BNDES, the country’s main source of long-term
credit.  Since 2007, the Rio de Janeiro-based bank has doubled
lending to 137.4 billion reais in 2009. The bank will now be
allowed to sell so-called letras financeiras to raise capital
from private investors instead of relying on funding from
Brazil’s Treasury.  “We want to enter a new phase where the private sector can
provide financing and share the work with BNDES,” Mantega said.  Reserves, Private Equity  The government will create a privately-managed fund using
about 2.2 billion reais in bank reserves to provide liquidity to
the secondary market for the domestically-issued bonds, said
Nelson Barbosa, the secretary of economic policy. Short-term
buying and selling of the paper will no longer be levied a
transaction tax.  “We want banks to buy and sell debentures frequently,”
Coutinho said.  A tax on foreign capital inflows that was tripled this year
will be reduced to its previous 2 percent for foreign-based
private equity investors who want to finance Brazil’s
infrastructure drive.  Brazil raised the so-called IOF tax in October in a bid to
take pressure off its currency, which has strengthened 35
percent against the U.S. dollar since the start of 2009, the
second-biggest gain among 25 emerging market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg after South Africa’s rand.  Lagging the BRICs  Local debt issuance by Brazilian companies is lagging
behind Russia’s $27 billion and China’s $163 billion this year.
Only India, at $18 billion, has had less corporate debt issuance
among the biggest developing economies, or BRICs.  Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said yesterday in
Sao Paulo that the new measures are “step in the right
direction” in Brazil’s bid to stimulate longer-term credit.  Since President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva took office in
2003, Brazil’s benchmark interest rate has fallen by more than
half though still remains, at 10.75 percent, the highest in the
Group of 20 nations. BNDES finance companies at a subsidized
rate the currently stands at 6 percent.  It’s too early to say whether the new rules will achieve
their intended effect, said Jankiel Santos, chief economist at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  “Since you’d have more liquidity in the secondary market,
people are going to start thinking about using more and more the
capital markets rather than just going to banks to fund
themselves,” he said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  