-- Brazil's Senate Confirms Tombini as Central Bank President Under Rousseff
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2010-12-15T19:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/brazil-s-senate-confirms-tombini-as-central-bank-president-under-rousseff.html
Brazil’s Senate approved the
nomination of  Alexandre Tombini  to succeed  Henrique Meirelles  as
the country’s next central bank president.  Lawmakers voted 37-7 to confirm President-elect  Dilma Rousseff ’s nominee to head the bank when her government takes
office Jan. 1. A Senate committee recommended his confirmation
last week.  Tombini, who has been a board member since 2005, voted with
policy makers on Dec. 8 to leave Brazil’s benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 10.75 percent. The bank, in a statement, said
it would “attentively follow” the economy’s performance and
the impact of measures to slow credit growth before deciding its
next step.  Rate-futures yields due in January show traders expect
policy makers to raise the Selic 25 basis points to 11 percent
at the first policy meeting Tombini will chair on Jan. 18-19.  Tombini, who has a doctorate in economics from the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, has overseen the
bank’s regulation of the financial system since 2006.  He told lawmakers at his confirmation hearing that the
increase in capital and reserve requirements announced by the
bank Dec. 3 would have an impact on demand, and slow the
expansion of credit to a “safe” pace.  “We recognize they will have an impact on the economy, on
aggregate demand, and consequently affect the conditions in
which monetary policy is processed and defined,” Tombini said.
“They are not substitute mechanisms, they are different.”  Bank Autonomy  Rousseff pledged “total operational autonomy” for the
central bank after she nominated Tombini to take over from
Meirelles, the institution’s longest-serving president. Policy
makers are appointed and removed by the country’s president and
aren’t limited by set terms.  Tombini at his confirmation hearing said that Brazil needs
to create the conditions so its inflation target, currently at
4.5 percent a year, can fall to levels seen in other major
emerging markets. The country’s real interest rates, the highest
in the Group of 20 nations, should continue on their long-term,
downward trend, he said.  “It’s reasonable to expect that in the future the interest
rates in the economy will be lower than they are today,”
Tombini said. “In the last few years, we brought inflation to a
lower and more stable level, and now we need to consolidate this
conquest.”  Consumer prices as measured by the benchmark IPCA index
rose 5.63 percent in November from a year ago, the fastest pace
since February 2009. Inflation expectations in 2011 have
accelerated to 5.2 percent, from 4.8 percent in August,
according to the median forecast in a Dec. 10 central bank
survey of about 100 economists.  Tombini was born in Porto Alegre, in the southern state of
Rio Grande do Sul. In addition to serving at the central bank
for more than a decade, he was senior adviser to Brazil’s
executive director at the International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  