-- Brazil to Investigate VW, Fiat, Ford Policies Toward Component Suppliers
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v ã o   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-12-15T19:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/brazil-to-investigate-vw-fiat-ford-policies-toward-component-suppliers.html
Brazil’s antitrust agency ordered an
 investigation  into automakers  Volkswagen AG ,  Fiat SpA  and  Ford
Motor Co.  to determine whether their policies toward auto-parts
providers are abusive.  The agency, known as  Cade , wants to determine if the
automakers are “abusing their economic power and illegally
exercising their property rights on the auto parts,” Cade said
today in Brasilia.  The investigation was requested by Brazil’s federal
association of auto-parts makers, known as  Anfape , which claims
the automakers, based on their intellectual property rights, are
using lawsuits and other means to hinder competition from
independent partsmakers.  The automakers’ rights are supported by Brazil’s law on
patents and intellectual property, and confirmed by multiple
judicial decisions, Fiat and Ford lawyers said during Cade’s
session today in Brasilia. Volkswagen’s lawyer made no comments.  Anfape is asking Cade to “restrict in a generic way” the
law on intellectual property and patents, said Fiat’s lawyer
Lauro Celidonio Gomes dos Reis Neto. The judicial system “has
already considered Ford’s behavior legitimate,” said Ricardo
Inglez de Souza, a lawyer for the Dearborn, Michigan-based
automaker.  Volkswagen gets the largest share of auto sales in Brazil,
followed by Fiat,  General Motors Co.  and Ford, according to
November data from the National Vehicle Manufacturer’s
Association.  Fiat announced yesterday it will invest 3 billion reais
($1.77 billion) in a new car factory in Brazil, as it seeks to
boost sales in the Italian company’s second-biggest market by
revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  