-- California Teachers Fear `Amputations' as Brown Seeks to Cut $28 Billion
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/california-teachers-fear-amputations-as-brown-seeks-to-cut-28-billion.html
California  teachers and school
administrators asked Governor-elect  Jerry Brown  to increase
taxes and refrain from cutting their budgets at a forum he
convened on closing projected deficits of $28.1 billion.  The two-hour meeting, attended by more than 300 people,
illustrated the dilemma Brown may face as he tries to close the
largest state budget gap in the nation. The 72-year-old Democrat
takes office Jan. 3.  The governor-elect benefited from tens of thousands of
dollars in donations from state teacher unions in his battle to
defeat billionaire businesswoman  Meg Whitman . The 120,000-member
California Federation of Teachers plans to lobby Brown to extend
$8 billion in temporary taxes to help limit budget cuts, said
Fred Glass, a spokesman. Last week, Brown said the state faces
budget deficits of $28.1 billion over the next 18 months.  “This is a huge challenge, unprecedented in my lifetime,”
said Brown, 72, who served as California governor from 1975 to
1983. “I didn’t know it was going to be this bad.”  Brown, joined in the meeting by state Controller  John Chiang , Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  and Finance Director  Ana Matosantos , highlighted California’s financial issues, including
pension liabilities of as much as $500 billion, a $10.3 billion
deficit in its unemployment-insurance fund and federal health-
care changes that could add $3.5 billion to annual expenses. The
event, held yesterday on the University of California, Los
Angeles campus, was the second in a series of public meetings on
the budget.  Falling Education Budget  California’s education spending fell to $43.5 billion this
year, compared with an inflation-adjusted $54 billion in 2008,
according to  Tom Torlakson , superintendent-elect of the
Education Department. The state ranks  last  in the U.S. in
teachers, guidance counselors and librarians per 1,000 students,
said Torlakson, a former Assembly Democrat from Contra Costa
County.  The state’s $8,322 in spending per pupil ranks it 43rd
among states, according to information Brown presented.  California voters have approved $82 billion of education-
related  bond issues  since June 2003, illustrating “a sign of
support from the local community,” Lockyer said.  Local school officials at the meeting suggested
alternatives for using available funds for education.  More resources should be devoted to online education, said
Elliott Duchon, a Riverside school superintendent. Federal money
from the Race to the Top Fund should be shifted to a national
program that aids poorer school districts, said Bernie
Rhinerson, a San Diego Unified School District representative.  Tax Votes  The voter approval threshold for special property taxes
should be lowered to 55 percent from the current two-thirds
majority, according to both Duchon and Rhinerson. Accomplishing
that would require a statewide ballot measure, Rhinerson said in
an interview after the event.  “There are just no more cuts to be made without
devastating our system of public education,”  Joel Shapiro , the
South Pasadena School District superintendent in suburban Los
Angeles, told Brown. “The only way is to increase revenue from
taxes and the federal government.”  Extending $8 billion in temporary tax increases due to
expire next year and raising income taxes on Californians who
earn more than $400,000 a year will be lobbying goals for the
state  teachers federation , Glass said in a telephone interview
before the meeting. He said higher  rates  for the wealthiest
taxpayers may bring in as much as $6 billion a year.  Union Donations  The teachers federation gave Brown’s campaign at least
$25,900 earlier this year, according to state records. Another
education union, the  California Teachers Association , gave at
least $51,000, the records show.  “There is no more meat on this bone to carve, the only
thing left is amputation,” said  David Sanchez , president of the
state teachers association. “If we do what Mr. Grinch wants us
to do, the possibility of shutting down schools is a reality. Is
that really what we want to do?”  Educators at the meeting only requested more money and
didn’t offer ideas for reducing expenses, Lockyer said.  “It’s time to make cuts, I believe deep cuts,” Lockyer
said, speaking of the overall state budget. “I’d do 25 percent
cuts across the board. Those who wanted less government, you’re
going to get your wish.”  Brown already has plans to cut the budget of the governor’s
office by 20 percent, he said. Then later he said he would go
deeper, to reduce it by 25 percent.  Finding Cuts  Currently the state  attorney general , Brown said he cut
spending in that office and that there are probably ways to
further reduce expenses. Voter unhappiness over high municipal
pensions has created an environment “hostile to government”
and tax increases, Brown said.  Brown said he hoped to have an agreement on a spending plan
for the next fiscal year ironed out with legislators within
about 60 days after introducing his budget on Jan. 10. The
 National Conference of State Legislatures  estimated California
has the biggest projected deficit for the next 18 months, in a
report last month.  Brown sounded like “a household financial adviser saying,
‘We’re going to have to cut up the credit card,’” California
Community Colleges Chancellor Jack Scott said at the meeting.  Brown asked about the status of some education programs he
recalled from his previous days as governor.  “I feel kind of like Rip Van Winkle coming back 28 years
later and still having the same discussion,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  