-- Cameron Energy Strategy May Roll Back Thatcher's Policies to Cut Emission
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-12-15T17:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/cameron-energy-strategy-may-roll-back-thatcher-s-policies-to-cut-emissions.html
The U.K. will propose the biggest
changes to energy policy in two decades tomorrow when the
coalition government lays out plans to ensure aging power plants
are replaced and climate targets met.  David Cameron ’s government is likely to reassert state
control over the market-based system introduced by his
predecessor  Margaret Thatcher  when proposals are made to
parliament. The regulator has suggested a “carbon floor” price
to force up the cost of emitting greenhouse gases, encouraging
investment in nuclear reactors and offshore wind farms.  The cost of replacing existing plants and building
renewable projects will be around 200 billion pounds ($316
billion), according to an Ernst & Young LLP  report . The
government says existing arrangements don’t provide the
certainty needed for utilities to finance new plants.
Electricite de France SA and  Centrica Plc , which own nuclear
projects and plan more, may benefit from policies that drive up
the cost of burning coal or gas.  “There is just enough time if companies start building and
investing now,”  Bill Easton , director on U.K. power and
utilities at Ernst & Young, said in an interview. “Within the
next 12 months the industry can’t be looking over its shoulder
wondering if the market is going to change.”  The U.K. has pledged to get 15 percent of its energy from
renewable sources by the end of the decade and reduce carbon-
dioxide emissions by 80 percent by 2050 from 1990 levels.
Achieving this will require as much as 40,000 megawatts of low-
carbon energy projects, according to a Dec. 7 report from the
 Committee on Climate Change .  ‘Fragmented Market’  “We have a once-in-a-generation chance to rebuild our
fragmented market, rebuild investor confidence, and rebuild our
power stations,”  Chris Huhne , secretary of state for energy and
climate change, said in a Nov. 17 speech. “This will be a
seismic shift.”  Britain is trying to reduce emissions linked to global
warming while replacing as much as a quarter of its existing
generation by 2020 as older plants are shut down, Huhne said.  Britain’s power network was built in the 20th century to
move coal-fired power from northern England to power consumers
concentrated in the south, according to Robert Gross, director
at Imperial College London’s Centre for Energy Policy and
Technology. Existing transmission prices were set in 1990 under
Thatcher to cut power costs by promoting generation as close as
possible to consumers.  Government Guarantees  Thatcher created Europe’s most competitive electricity and
gas markets, privatizing state-owned businesses including
British Gas, British Energy, National Power and PowerGen. By
1997, the change had driven down consumer prices by as much as
20 percent, compared with pre-privatization costs, according to
former British Energy Plc Chief Executive Officer  Robert Hawley .  While privatization has kept down energy prices, the scale
of investment needed to meet climate change targets and replace
aging plants is so large it won’t happen without government
guarantees, according to  regulator Ofgem . The global financial
crisis, tougher carbon targets and increasing gas dependency,
have weighed on industry funding, the regulator said.  Tomorrow’s proposals may include so-called capacity
payments, levying a pool of funds from consumers that would make
pay-outs to low-carbon generators, including nuclear reactors
and offshore windfarms, Easton said.  The government may also introduce so-called contracts for
difference to deal with the volatility of future power prices
and prevent windfall profits, Easton said. These contracts would
compensate utilities for lower-than-expected energy prices or
charge them if prices are higher, in this way locking in a price
and allaying concerns that costly projects won’t get paid off.  Carbon Floor  The Committee on Climate Change suggested replacing the
climate-change levy to introduce a carbon floor that rises to 27
pounds a ton by 2020. European Union carbon permits closed
yesterday at 14.46 euros a ton on ICE Futures Europe in London.  A carbon floor would benefit nuclear and renewable energy
assets-owners by raising the cost of other forms of generation,
according to analysts at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP. Such a
policy is likely to hurt companies such as Drax Plc, owner of
western Europe’s largest coal-fired power plant, they said.  “The U.K. government is considering a lot of the
changes,” said  John Segrich , who manages the Rye, New York-
based Gabelli SRI Green Fund. Feed-in tariffs for low carbon
generation, which are already in use in the U.K. and likely to
continue in some form after the government’s overhaul, have
driven unsustainable growth in other countries he said. “What
may be good for a consumer or the country, may not be good for
an investor.”  Nuclear Renaissance  Drax is down 9.1 percent this year to 376.9 pence in London
trading, valuing the company at 1.4 billion pounds. Centrica has
risen 18 percent this year to 330.3 pence in London, making it
one of the top-tier performers in the  Bloomberg World Europe
Utility Index , down 16 percent this year. E.ON AG and RWE AG,
German utilities that operate coal and gas-fired generation in
the U.K., are lagging behind the index.  Britain’s 19 operating  nuclear reactors  account for 18
percent of the country’s power generation. The government
approved eight sites for new plants in October. EDF, Centrica,
Scottish & Southern Energy Plc, Spain-based Iberdrola SA and
France’s GDF Suez SA, RWE and E.ON have announced plans for
about 19,000 megawatts of new reactors through 2050. Utilities
may need to spend as much as 6 billion pounds on each reactor in
Britain, according to Energy Minister  Charles Hendry .  The U.K. generates about half its electricity from gas and
is forced to import increasing amounts as its reserves dwindle.
The U.K.’s gas market makes it possible to track wholesale costs
at any time. That transparency can allow other nations to bid
higher for gas deliveries, leaving Britain vulnerable to
shortfalls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 