-- Empty Southbound Trucks Show Canada Recovery Depends on U.S.
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-12-15T18:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/canadians-driving-empty-southbound-trucks-show-factories-lack-u-s-demand.html
Eugene Moser  is paying some of his
truckers to drive empty half the time.  Canadian companies have been asking Cambridge, Ontario-
based Challenger Motor Freight Inc. to send empty trucks to the
U.S., so they can return full of everything from automotive
parts to consumer goods, said Moser, the company’s president.  Moser and many economists say a strong currency and weak
U.S. demand are to blame for declines in exports and  factory
sales , which remain 14 percent below the peak they reached in
July, 2008. The U.S. is buying the smallest share of Canada’s
shipments abroad since November 1982, Statistics Canada says.  “There are customers that are calling us and asking us to
run empty into the border states,” such as Michigan and beyond
into Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, Moser said by telephone
from Cambridge, 100 kilometers (60 miles) southwest of Toronto.
“When you get a truck down there and you want to come back to
Canada, you can almost name your price.”  Statistics Canada reported today that  manufacturing sales 
increased 1.7 percent in October, following declines in three of
the previous four months. Exports, which equaled 32 percent of
Canada’s economy in 2009, declined by 1.3 percent between July
and October, the statistics agency said Nov. 30. Canada sends
about three-quarters of its exports  to the U.S. , with some of
the country’s major sales abroad including factory products such
as automobiles and equipment.  ‘Biggest Risk’  “The biggest risk to the Canadian economy now is the risk
rising out of the state of the economy in the U.S.,” Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  said in a Dec. 10 interview with Bloomberg
Television in New York.  The Canadian dollar’s 25 percent gain against the U.S.
dollar since March 2009 is curbing orders for such companies as
Montreal planemaker Bombardier Inc. and encouraging imports of
equipment to boost  productivity .  Electrolux AB, the world’s second-largest home-appliance
maker, said yesterday it will close a cooking-product factory
with 1,300 workers in L’Assomption, Quebec. The company said the
closure is part of an eight-year effort to shift production to
countries with lower costs.  Statistics Canada said Dec. 3 that Canada’s factories now
employ 10 percent of the workforce, the lowest in records dating
from 1976 when the share was 19 percent.  Canadian  economic growth  slowed to a 1 percent annualized
pace in the third quarter, less than the Bank of Canada’s 1.6
percent October prediction. The trade sector subtracted 3.5
percentage points from growth in the quarter as exports fell and
imports rose, government figures show.  ‘Shot in the Arm’  Lumber and pulp companies, among the hardest hit by the
U.S. recession that triggered a record number of foreclosures,
are rebuilding by seeking new markets in Asia, said  Tembec  Inc.
Chief Executive Officer  Jim Lopez .  “It’s going to take a few more years for the U.S. economy
and the U.S. housing market to totally heal,” Lopez said in a
telephone interview. “Our lumber business in China: it’s
booming right now. It’s a shot in the arm for an industry that
was so dependent on the U.S.,” he said.  Pittsburgh-based  U.S. Steel Corp.  said on Oct. 1 that it’s
closing the blast-furnace and steelmaking operations at the
Hamilton Works plant in Ontario because of lower demand.
Transcontinental Inc. said Oct. 27 it’s closing a printing plant
with 180 workers in Boucherville, Quebec, citing decreased
demand for books, catalogues and magazines.  “Without a strong U.S. recovery it’s going to be hard for
Canada to improve the trade balance and it’s going to be even
harder with a strong currency,” said  Carl Weinberg , chief
economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York.  Record Deficit  Canada’s merchandise  trade deficit  was a record C$2.51
billion in July, and it posted a sixth straight shortfall of
C$1.71 billion for October. That decline has come as the  trade
surplus with the U.S.  narrowed to C$1.13 billion in October, the
lowest since 1992, Statistics Canada said Dec. 10. The surplus
with the U.S. was as high as C$11.7 billion in October 2005.  The lost U.S. business runs counter to Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney ’s October prediction that exports will help
lead the country’s economic recovery over the next two years.
The bank kept its  benchmark interest rate  at 1 percent for a
second consecutive time on Dec. 7, and said it will remain
careful about future increases as falling exports and Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis hinder the recovery.  “This is a recovery where our traditional markets are much
weaker than they have been in the past,” Carney said at a  press
conference  two days ago in Toronto. “The net export performance
has been relatively weak and that reflects in part the weakness
south of the border, but in the end it’s also competitiveness in
Canada.”  Fragile Recovery  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  extended stimulus spending
linked to construction by seven months to Oct. 31, 2011, because
of a fragile global recovery. Carney may also keep  interest
rates  unchanged until the middle of next year after raising them
three times between June and September.  Moser at Challenger Motor Freight, a company founded in
1975 that today services 3,500 trailers, isn’t expecting much of
a manufacturing recovery. “Are you going to build a plant in
Canada when nobody has any understanding about where the dollar
is going to be?” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  