-- Canada Competition Bureau Challenges Visa, MasterCard
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-15T17:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/canada-competition-bureau-challenging-visa-mastercard-rules.html
Visa Inc.  and MasterCard Inc. use
“anti-competitive” rules to prevent merchants in Canada from
encouraging shoppers to use cheaper payment options such as cash
or debit, Canada’s competition watchdog said.  The Competition Bureau, acting on a complaint from Canadian
retailers, asked a tribunal to strike down the rules imposed by
the world’s two largest credit-card companies.  “Visa and MasterCard’s anti-competitive behavior hurts
businesses and consumers alike,”  Melanie Aitken , the bureau’s
commissioner, said in a  statement  today. “It is particularly
harmful for small and medium sized businesses, key engines for
economic growth in Canada.”  The two credit card companies agreed in October to change
some of their practices in the U.S. to avert an antitrust suit.
The settlement allowed four million U.S. merchants to steer
customers to different credit cards or forms of payments through
discounts and rebates, the U.S. Justice Department said at the
time.  Visa and  MasterCard,  which account for 90 percent of
Canada’s credit-card transactions, prevent merchants from
applying a surcharge on high-cost cards issued by the companies.
Merchants pay C$5 billion ($4.98 billion) in “hidden credit
card fees,” the bureau said.  Highest Rates  The credit companies also impose a “no surcharge rule,”
preventing merchants from charging a fee for credit-card
transactions, forcing them to embed fees in retail prices.
Canada has among the highest card acceptance fees in the world,
ranging from 1.5 percent to 3 percent, almost twice as high as
Europe, the bureau said.  MasterCard’s Canadian unit said the Competition Bureau’s
legal claims are without merit and will be rejected by the
Competition Tribunal, a court that hears cases on mergers and
trade practices.  “If these changes were implemented by the Competition
Bureau, the result would be to enrich merchants at the expense
of consumers,” MasterCard Canada President  Betty DeVita  said in
a statement.  “Visa is disappointed that the Canadian Competition Bureau
has taken an anti-consumer position by filing a lawsuit against
Visa to overturn policies that protect consumers,” Visa said in
a statement.  Visa’s policies don’t prevent retailers from offering an
incentive for shoppers to use cash or debit, Visa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandre Deslongchamps in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  