-- Canada Notes Roil Catastrophe Credit Swaps on Unwind Concerns for Paper
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-12-15T15:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/canada-mav-notes-roil-catastrophe-credit-default-swaps-on-unwind-concerns.html
The cost of derivatives protecting
against economic meltdown have jumped to the highest since May
on speculation banks will need to buy the contracts as funds
seek to restructure a type of Canadian structured note,
according to Citigroup Inc.  The so-called super senior slice of the seven-year Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index Series 9, a credit
swaps benchmark that was created in 2007, has climbed 6 basis
points since Nov. 9 to 29 basis points, Citigroup data show.  The super-senior contract, which pays out if more than 30
percent of corporate bonds underlying the swap are wiped out, is
climbing on concern investors may liquidate bonds that were
created in 2007 to restructure C$32 billion ($31.9 billion) of
insolvent Canadian commercial paper, said  Mikhail Foux , a credit
strategist at Citigroup in New York. The full corresponding
gauge that loses value after any of the 125 companies in the
index default, gained 0.8 basis point over the same period.  “It’s nothing more than just speculation,” Foux said in a
telephone interview yesterday. While possible, a widespread
unwind of the notes isn’t likely because it would require the
agreement of other parties in the deal, he said. “It would be
extremely complicated.”  The bank recommended investors sell protection on the
super-senior contracts to benefit from ‘overdone’ concerns in a
Dec. 8 report.  Canada’s market for non-bank administered asset-backed
commercial paper collapsed in August 2007 on concern that part
of the short-term debt was backed by U.S. subprime mortgages.
More than 100 companies and 1,765 individuals were saddled with
paper that couldn’t trade until a court-ordered plan to convert
the short-term debt into longer-term notes was completed 17
months later.  Hedge Funds  While the cost to protect against unprecedented losses is
climbing, the restructured debt is gaining in value as credit
markets stabilize and the notes move closer to maturity.  U.S. hedge funds were offering companies holding the debt
as much as 73 cents on the dollar for the highest-quality notes,
said  Colin Kilgour  of Kilgour Advisory Group, a Toronto-based
firm advising companies on the debt. That’s 20 percent more than
at the start of the year and about 60 percent better than the
first trades in 2009 after the debt swap.  The restructured bonds, known as MAV Notes, are largely
backed by the most senior pieces of so-called synthetic
collateralized debt obligations that guarantee against default
on corporate debt.  Synthetic CDOs package credit-default swaps, and slice them
into securities of varying risk.  Super-Senior  Because of their rank, super-senior swaps were designed to
lose on the bets only after all of the lower-ranked pieces had
been wiped out. To generate yields higher than similarly rated
investments, the securities, called leveraged super seniors,
guaranteed debt that was up to 10 times the initial investment.  Banks that created the structures and sold them to
investors used other derivatives, including the super senior
slice of the Markit CDX index, to offset the risk of losses from
their side, or leg, of the CDO trade.  Some of the owners of the MAV notes may seek to cash in on
their debt by unwinding the structures, including the banks’
hedges, potentially requiring the dealers to buy more protection
to keep the risks on their books balanced, Citigroup’s Foux
said.  The anticipation of such a move has pushed the cost of the
super-senior slice of the Markit CDX index to climb, he said.  Investors should buy protection on the entire five-year
Markit CDX investment-grade index Series 9 and sell protection
on the super-senior portion of the index, Foux said in the
report, to profit from the market “overreaction.” As the super
senior slice drops relative to the full index, the trade gains.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  