-- Canada's Van Loan Says Scope of an EU Trade Agreement Hinges on Provinces
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-12-15T21:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/canada-s-van-loan-says-scope-of-an-eu-trade-agreement-hinges-on-provinces.html
Canadian Trade Minister  Peter Van Loan  said the scope of a trade agreement with the European Union
may depend on provincial governments’ willingness to open up
their markets for government contracts.  “For the European Union, the principal issue is
procurement,” Van Loan said in an interview today at his
Parliamentary office in Ottawa. “We need to see an approach
where every province is being ambitious if Canadian workers and
businesses are to get the gains and opportunities we’re looking
for.”  Officials from Canada and the EU are scheduled to begin a
sixth round of  negotiations  next month on a trade agreement that
will include government procurement, investment and regulatory
standardization, making any accord broader than the North
American Free Trade  Agreement . Access to procurement by
provincial and municipal governments, and state-owned companies,
may have been the main reason for the EU’s interest in a trade
agreement, according to a September  report  last month from
analysts at the trade department.  “There is a real need for each province and territory to
step up in an ambitious fashion,” Van Loan said.  Van Loan met today with EU Trade Commissioner  Karel De Gucht  in Ottawa to discuss the negotiations. A critical round
will take place in March, Van Loan said, when there will be an
“exchange of offers” between the two sides.  ‘Crucial Stages’  De Gucht cited the EU’s interest in opening up government
procurement markets at a press conference in Ottawa following
the meeting, while Van Loan said “geographical indications”
for food items are also being discussed.  “As we now enter the final crucial stages, it’s vital for
both sides to double up their efforts to reach our common
goal,” De Gucht told reporters in Ottawa. “It is really
important to remember that trade is a two-way street.”  The two sides have already exchanged preliminary “offers”
on goods that would eliminate 90 percent of tariff lines, Van
Loan said.  Tariffs are “the area of easy, obvious progress,” Van
Loan said, adding half of the estimated benefits from the
agreement will come from easing non-tariff barriers.  A joint study by Canada and the EU found that a trade
accord would boost the Canadian economy by C$12 billion ($11.9
billion) annually. Europe is Canada’s second-biggest trade
partner after the U.S.  Canada, which has completed eight trade accords since Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper  came to power in 2006, has been turning
to bilateral trade agreements to reduce its dependence on a
slowing U.S. economy amid stalled talks at the World Trade
Organization. Canada also is negotiating free-trade agreements
with Turkey, India and South Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 