-- Canadian Currency Gains Against Most Major Counterparts on Review of Spain
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-12-15T22:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/canada-s-dollar-gains-against-euro-amid-moody-s-spain-credit-rating-review.html
Canada’s dollar rose against most of
its major counterparts after Moody’s Investors Service said it’s
reviewing Spain’s debt rating for a possible cut, rekindling
concern the euro region’s debt crisis will spread.  The Canadian currency, known as the loonie for the bird on 
its one-dollar coin, approached the strongest level in three 
months against the euro, which fell versus most of its peers. 
The loonie strengthened versus the greenback as the U.S. Senate 
passed a tax-cut plan to spur economic expansion in Canada’s 
biggest trade partner. It rose the most in six months versus 
the Australian dollar, while the U.S. dollar gained against 
most major currencies.  “It’s a euro move more than anything -- it’s the elephant
in the room for the foreign-exchange market,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit in Toronto. “As growth expectations are wound up
in the U.S., there’s a spillover effect in the Canadian dollar.”  Canada’s currency climbed as much as 1.5 percent against
the euro, the biggest intraday gain in three weeks, to C$1.3260
before trading at C$1.3279 at 5 p.m. in Toronto, up 1.4 percent
from C$1.3461 yesterday. It reached C$1.3206 per euro on Dec. 2,
the strongest level since Sept. 14.  The loonie appreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0046 per U.S.
dollar, from C$1.0062 yesterday. It touched C$1.001, the
strongest level since it last traded at parity with the
greenback on Nov. 11.  Australian Dollar  The Canadian dollar rose versus its Australian counterpart
for the first time in five days after BNP Paribas SA recommended
selling the Aussie in favor of Canada’s currency. The loonie
climbed as much as 1.7 percent, the biggest intraday jump since
June 7, to 98.80 cents per Australian dollar, strengthening past
parity from C$1.0052 yesterday.  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the waterfowl on the
C$1 coin, gained after Canadian factory sales and U.S.
industrial production both increased more than forecast.  “The anticipation of tax cuts as well as positive data”
boosted the Canadian dollar versus the greenback,  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in New York, said via e-mail.  The U.S. Senate passed the $858 billion tax-cut deal,
giving bipartisan endorsement to an agreement crafted by
President  Barack Obama  and Republicans that extends Bush-era
reductions for all income levels. The 81-19 vote sent the bill
to the House, where Democratic leaders were likely to bring it
to the floor tomorrow.  Government bonds rose, pushing the benchmark Canadian  10-
year note ’s yield down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 3.33 percent. It touched 3.37 percent yesterday, the
highest since June 21. The price of the 3.5 percent security due
in June 2020 gained 12 cents to C$101.40.  Bond Sale  Canada auctioned C$3 billion ($2.98 billion) of two-year
notes, drawing an average yield of 1.787 percent. The government
received bids of C$6.9 billion for the 1.75 percent securities,
which mature in March 2013, according to a statement today on
the Bank of Canada’s website.  As European Union leaders prepared to start a two-day
summit in Brussels tomorrow with the focus on a permanent
crisis-fighting system to be introduced in 2013, Moody’s said
Spain’s credit rating may be cut from Aa1. The government is
readying its final bond sale of the year tomorrow amid concern
it may follow Greece and Ireland in seeking a bailout.  Canadian  factory sales  rose 1.7 percent to C$45.5 billion
in October, more than anticipated, Statistics Canada data showed
today. The increase was led by gains for petroleum, metals and
automobiles. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted a 1
percent gain.  U.S. Factories  Industrial production in the U.S. increased more than
forecast in November, signaling factories will support economic
growth into next year. Output at factories, mines and utilities
rose 0.4 percent, the biggest gain since July, figures from the
Federal Reserve showed. Economists estimated a 0.3 percent gain.  The U.S. consumer-price index increased 0.1 percent last
month after a 0.2 percent rise the prior month, the Labor
Department said today. The core measure, which excludes food and
energy costs, also rose 0.1 percent, matching the forecast.  The Canadian dollar has appreciated 4.2 percent this year
in a measure of 10 developed-nation currencies, Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes showed. The Australian
dollar climbed 9.8 percent, while the greenback fell 1.2 percent
and the euro tumbled 9.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  