-- Capital Shopping Centres Rejects $4.6 Billion Bid From Simon as Inadequate
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-12-15T21:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/capital-shopping-centres-rejects-4-6-billion-bid-from-simon-as-inadequate.html
Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc ,
the U.K.’s biggest shopping mall owner, rejected an offer from
 Simon Property Group Inc.  valuing the company at 2.9 billion
pounds ($4.6 billion), describing it as inadequate.  Simon, the largest U.S. mall owner, proposed buying the
company for 425 pence a share in cash. The bid “very
substantially undervalues the company and its prospects,”
London-based Capital Shopping said today in a statement.  Capital Shopping owns four of the U.K.’s 10 biggest malls,
including the Manchester Arndale and the Lakeside Shopping
Centre in Essex. The offer from Indianapolis-based Simon is
conditional on Capital Shopping abandoning a planned 1.6
billion-pound purchase of Trafford Centre mall in Manchester.
The U.K. company said today its board plans to delay a meeting
to approve that deal to late January from Dec. 20.  “I don’t think we’re done,” said  Rich Moore , an analyst
at RBC Capital Markets in Solon, Ohio. “My intuition and
experience with Simon tells me when they’re interested they
don’t just walk away when someone says no to the first offer.”  Capital Shopping  rose 19.3 pence, or 4.9 percent, to 415.6
pence in London trading, the highest closing price since
September 2009.  Simon  fell $2.39, or 2.5 percent, to $95.28 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Simon “welcomes” the planned delay of the Trafford Centre
vote, the company said in an e-mailed statement today. Simon
said the conditions listed in its “indicative” offer shouldn’t
pose a barrier to a deal and it expects access to information
from Capital Shopping to make a formal offer.  26% Premium  Simon’s proposed bid was 26 percent more than Capital
Shopping’s closing share price on Nov. 24, the day before the
U.S. company’s interest was first disclosed. The offer was 13
percent higher than Capital Shopping’s net asset value of 377
pence a share as of Nov. 1.  Land Securities Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest real estate
investment trust, closed yesterday at 9.4 percent below its net
asset value as of Sept. 30 and British Land Co., the second-
largest REIT, was 2.6 percent lower.  This is the second time this year that Simon has faced
resistance from a takeover target. It pursued  General Growth
Properties Inc. , the second-biggest U.S. mall owner, for three
months after being rebuffed by the Chicago-based company.
General Growth, in bankruptcy at the time, favored a rival
proposal to keep it independent and proceeded with that deal.  “They’re going to be tenacious, I’m sure,” Moore said of
Simon’s Capital Shopping bid.  Peel Stake  Capital Shopping disclosed Simon’s interest last month
while announcing the agreement to buy the Trafford Centre from
closely held  Peel Group .  To help with financing, Capital Shopping raised about 221
million pounds from selling the equivalent of 9.9 percent of its
outstanding equity to investors. The deal would give Peel as
much as 25 percent of Capital Shopping.  In the same statement,  Capital Shopping  said it rejected
Simon’s request to delay the purchase and share sale to give the
U.S. landlord time to prepare an offer. Capital Shopping refused
last week to provide Simon with information it said it needed to
evaluate a possible takeover bid.  A condition for a firm offer from Simon was “access to
satisfactory due diligence,”  David Simon , chairman and chief
executive of Simon, said in a letter to Capital Shopping today.  Due Diligence  The conditions for due diligence and financing are among
the reasons Simon’s bid is inadequate, Capital Shopping said
today. The company said Simon has spent “considerable time”
with advisers completing public diligence and Capital Shopping
has published a detailed prospectus. A separate Simon proposal
related to the funding of the Trafford Centre deal didn’t have a
due diligence requirement, Capital Shopping said.  The company is postponing the vote on the Trafford Centre
agreement to “ensure CSC’s shareholders are provided with the
necessary information about the proposal to make a clear
decision,” according to today’s statement. Capital Shopping
said it expects to continue to back the purchase unless Simon
provides a firm proposal that the board is willing to recommend.  “There can be no serious doubt as to Simon’s desire and
ability to complete the proposed transaction,” Simon said in
its response today.  The Peel Group is committed to its deal with Capital
Shopping and the company “strongly believes in the future
growth prospects of CSC as an independent U.K. company,” Peel
Group said in a statement today.  Simon  cut its European holdings this year with the sale of
its interest in a joint venture that owned seven shopping
centers in France and Poland. It recorded a gain on the sale of
$281 million, according to a regulatory filing.  Simon gets 3.5 percent of its net operating income from
international operations, according to a third-quarter
supplemental report. The company also owns outlet shopping
centers in Japan, Mexico and South Korea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 