-- Cargill to Purchase Australian Grain-Trading Business of AWB From Agrium
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g ,   M a r i a   E r m a k o v a   a n d   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2010-12-15T19:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/cargill-to-buy-awb-grain-trading-business-from-agrium-update1-.html
Cargill Inc., the grain-distributor
that’s the largest closely held U.S. company, agreed to buy an
Australian commodity-trading business from  Agrium Inc . and pay
about $300 million for an Indonesian starch producer.  Cargill’s Australian purchase will include former AWB Ltd.
grain marketing, trading and storage businesses, Minneapolis-
based Cargill said in an e-mailed statement today. Cargill will
acquire 85 percent of Sorini Agro Asia Corporindo Tbk from PT
AKR Corporindo Tbk and UOB Kay Hian Pte Ltd. for 3,500 rupiah a
share, it said in a separate statement.  The AWB deal will strengthen Cargill’s presence in
Australia, where it has operated since 1967. The country is
forecast to become the world’s fourth-largest wheat exporter
this year. Australia may export 16 million metric tons in 2010-
2011, the International Grains Council forecasts, behind the
U.S., France and Canada.  Cargill will pay cash for the AWB business and the deal
will be completed in the first half of 2011, Agrium said in a
statement. The price will be the unit’s net asset value at the
completion date and a premium, Calgary, Canada-based Agrium
said.  If the deal had been completed Sept. 30, net proceeds would
be about A$870 million ($861 million), it said. That figure is
based on the purchase price, the amount of working capital freed
up because of the sale and A$240 million of debt that would be
assumed by Cargill, Agrium said.  “Cargill’s expertise and knowledge in shipping large
volumes of commodities should make Australian grain more
competitive in more markets,”  Ralph Selwood , the managing
director of Cargill Australia Ltd., said in the statement.  The deal requires regulatory approval, and the companies
said they expect completion in the first half of 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Ermakova in London at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net ;
 Shruti Date Singh  in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  