-- McDonald's Planning to Open as Many as 200 Restaurants in China Next Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-15T05:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/mcdonald-s-to-open-as-many-as-200-restaurants-in-china-next-year.html
McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, may add as many as 200 outlets in
China next year to compete with  Yum! Brands Inc. ’s KFC Corp. in
an economy that grew 9.6 percent last quarter.  McDonald’s plans to increase investment in China by 40
percent next year and open 175-200 restaurants in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy, the company said in a statement
distributed in Beijing today. That compares with a 25 percent
increase in investment this year and the opening of a company
record 165 restaurants, according to the statement.  “Our goal is to become better and to change to get with
the changing needs of our customers’ lifestyle,”  Kenneth Chan ,
the company’s China chief executive officer, said in an
interview at an outlet in the Wangfujing district of Beijing.
“We are making sure that we are very accessible to the Chinese
consumer base.”  The capital primarily will be used to open new restaurants
and change the designs of existing ones, Chan said.  McDonald’s  shares  have risen 23 percent this year, compared
with an 11 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Sales at all of China’s fast-food chains rose 12 percent
last year to 60 billion yuan ($9 billion), according to
Euromonitor International. Yum! led the market with a 40 percent
share, compared with 16 percent for McDonald’s, the researcher
said.  New Store Design  McDonald’s unveiled a new restaurant design named “LIM”
in four Beijing outlets this month. The concept, by French
designer Philippe Avanzi, features bright colors and soft seats.  By the end of next year, about 100 restaurants are expected
to feature the design, Chan said in a media briefing. The ratio
will increase to 80 percent of all outlets by 2013.  “LIM stands for ‘Less Is More,’ which fits in very well
with the nature of McDonald’s,” he said. “We want to offer
simple, easy enjoyment for the young generation.”  McDonald’s , based in Oak Brook, Illinois, opened its first
China restaurant in 1990 and aims to almost double its outlets
there by 2013. The fast-food chain established its first 1,000
restaurants in China faster than in any other country outside
the U.S.,  Tim Fenton , its president for Asia, Middle East and
Africa, said in June.  China is the company’s fastest-growing market for store
openings, McDonald’s said today. It operates more than 1,100
stores in China where it has invested 7 billion yuan. McDonald’s
aims to have 2,000 outlets in the nation by 2013, Fenton said.  The company earlier this year sold yuan-denominated bonds
in Hong Kong to fund its expansion plans, becoming the first
foreign non-financial company to issue such notes.  McDonald’s last month increased the prices of burgers,
drinks and snacks by up to 1 yuan in China after  inflation 
surged to a two-year high. A Big Mac costs an average of $2.18
in Beijing, compared with an average $3.71 in the U.S.,
according to The Economist’s Big Mac Index in October.  -- Michael Wei . Editors:  Vipin V. Nair ,  John Liu   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  