-- McDonald’s Happy Meal Toys Assailed in Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-12-15T19:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/mcdonald-s-happy-meal-toys-assailed-in-lawsuit-filed-by-consumer-group.html
McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s
biggest restaurant chain, baits, exploits and ultimately harms
children by offering toys with its Happy Meals, a
Washington-based consumer advocacy group claimed in a lawsuit.  The  Center for Science in the Public Interest , in a
complaint that its litigation director Stephen Gardner said was
filed today at a state courthouse in San Francisco, accuses the
company of deceptive marketing and business practices. The
filing could not immediately be confirmed.  “I don’t think it’s right to entice children into wanting
Happy Meals with the promise of a great toy,” plaintiff Monet
Parham said today in a telephone interview. The case was filed
by her on behalf of her 6-year-old daughter, Maya.  Boxed  Happy Meals  sold by the Oak Brook, Illinois-based
restaurant chain typically consist of hamburgers, cheeseburgers
or fried chicken, plus French fries or apple slices, a beverage
and a toy.  “By advertising that Happy Meals include toys, McDonald’s
has helped create and continues to exacerbate a super-sized
health crisis in California,” the nonprofit group said in its
complaint.  Parham, 41, lives in California’s capital, Sacramento, and
said she is a state employee.  “We are proud of our Happy Meals and intend to vigorously
defend our brand, our reputation and our food,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement responding to the lawsuit.  Parental Approval  “Parents consistently tell us they approve of our Happy
Meals,” McDonald’s said, adding that the company is
“confident” parents recognize the meals as “a fun treat, with
quality, right-sized food choices for their children that can
fit into a balanced diet.”  The center seeks class-action, or group, status on behalf
of all of the state’s children under 8 years of age who have
seen marketing for the company’s packaged children’s meals since
December 2006.  It also seeks an order barring the company from continuing
to promote meals featuring toys on television, billboards and in
its restaurants. There is no demand for money damages.  “The lawsuit is about the change, not the money,” Gardner
said in a phone interview.  In June, the center sent the company a letter demanding it
stop including the toys as premiums in meals.  “McDonald’s is engaged in a highly sophisticated scheme to
use the bait of toys to exploit children’s developmental
immaturity and subvert parental authority,” the organization
alleged in its complaint.  The case is Parham v. McDonald’s Corp., CGC-10506178,
California Superior Court, San Francisco County (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 