-- Wall Street Pushes for Delay in U.S. Rules to Curb Commodities Speculation
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-12-15T22:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/cftc-urged-to-curb-commodity-speculation-as-wall-street-resists.html
U.S. regulators this week are
considering rules aimed at curbing speculation in commodities
trading, as Wall Street firms call for delay and companies
including  Delta Airlines Inc.  urge strict limits.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission will miss a mid-
January deadline to impose trading restrictions on commodities
including oil, natural gas, silver and gold, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  told a House Agriculture subcommittee today at a hearing
in Washington. CFTC commissioners will consider the so-called
position limits at a meeting tomorrow.  “If we were to propose something tomorrow, it will have a
healthy comment period from the public, and that will by its
very nature go past the January date,” he said. “So I will
tell Congress that no, we will not finalize this by that
statutory date.”  The CFTC has received hundreds of comments on how to
implement the limits -- included in the Dodd-Frank Act to curb
the influence of big traders in markets for crude, gasoline
heating oil and natural gas. Commissioners have discussed
position limits in at least 75 of their more than 400 meetings
with firms including banks, oil companies and hedge funds,
according to the CFTC’s website.  Phase-In  The agency may phase-in limits on speculative trading in
energy, metals and agriculture commodities, Gensler said.
Commissioners will weigh splitting proposals for position limits
between spot month and all other months combined, and may move
expeditiously on the spot month plan, he said last week.  The law gives the CFTC until January to impose restrictions
on energy and metals trading, and until April to place a cap on
agricultural contracts.  The commission may suggest a formula for how to set limits
based on open interest in the market using data the agency is
seeking to gather, and hard limits would be set once sufficient
information is available, Gensler said.  Position limits have been imposed by the CFTC on other
commodities, and lawmakers and regulators have been debating
whether and how to curb energy speculation for more than two
years. The focus on the role of speculators intensified in 2008
when oil prices reached a record $147.27 a barrel.  “The speculative bubble in oil prices has concrete
detrimental consequences for the real economy,” said  Richard B. Hirst , general counsel to Delta, in a Dec. 13 letter that
encouraged the CFTC to move “aggressively” to limit the number
of contracts a single firm can hold.  Industry Lobbying  The financial industry has recommended that the commission
delay setting limits. The  Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association , a New York- and Washington-based trade
group, said in a Nov. 23 letter that the CFTC first needs
sufficient data to gauge the “appropriateness” of the rules.  Morgan Stanley  and the  Futures Industry Association , a
Washington trade group, proposed that the commission set interim
rules.  CME Group Inc.,  the world’s largest futures market,
pushed the CFTC to defer setting limits until regulators have
“the data needed to accurately set and enforce those limits.”  Companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Vitol and
Cargill Inc. have met with the CFTC about the rules, according
to the commission’s website.  ‘Opaque Market’  Limits are needed because two decades of market
deregulation “resulted in an opaque market that catered to the
needs of financial speculators rather than bona-fide hedgers and
consumers,” said Robert J. Hirsch, president of Hirsch Fuels
Inc., a heating oil company in Hauppauge, New York, in a Nov. 19
letter to the CFTC.  The House hearing was the first time the agriculture panel
debated the financial law since it was enacted in July and since
regulators began drafting regulations. Gensler testified
alongside CFTC Commissioner  Bart Chilton , a fellow Democrat who
has urged the agency to resist calls to delay the limits.  “We see little merit to the argument that the CFTC has not
sufficiently considered the imposition of such limits,” said
 Jim Collura , vice president of the  New England Fuel Institute , a
coalition of home energy providers, in testimony prepared for
the House hearing.  “We are discouraged that, despite ample evidence of
excessive speculation in commodities markets that some continue
to doubt, question and outright deny that speculation was and
ever could be excessive,” said Collura, who was testifying on
behalf of the Commodity Markets Oversight Coalition whose
members include energy and agricultural businesses, end-users of
raw materials and consumer groups.  Terrence Duffy , executive chairman at CME Group,  Jeffrey Sprecher,  chairman and chief executive officer of
Intercontinental Exchange Inc., and  Robert Jones , senior vice
president at ABN Amro Clearing Chicago LLC, also appeared before
the 18-member panel.  Chilton  Businesses are having an increasingly difficult time
hedging commodity price risk because of the large concentration
of speculators in the markets, Chilton said.  “We shouldn’t be getting around the law,” Chilton said.
“We should be about working to do what we were instructed to
do, to protect markets and help consumers. Congress passed the
new law. We must implement it in a thoughtful manner. End of
story in my book.”  The Dodd-Frank bill expanded the CFTC’s authority to the
over-the-counter derivatives market for the first time since the
first swaps were introduced 30 years ago. Before the law passed,
traders could buy futures on regulated exchanges, or they could
privately negotiate for unregulated lookalike contracts.  The so-called swaps loophole allowed traders to sidestep
limits by buying derivatives, contracts whose value is derived
from commodities, stocks, bonds, loans, and currencies, or
linked to specific events such as changes in interest rates.
Some firms use them to lock in prices for goods they buy or
sell, while speculators may use them to bets on the markets.  Amaranth  Derivatives played in role the 2006 collapse of Amaranth
Advisors LLC, a hedge fund that lost $6.6 billion on natural gas
bets. Amaranth amassed a large position in unregulated swaps
after being ordered to reduce its position on the regulated
exchange.  The new rules will limit the number of contracts one firm
can hold both on exchanges and in the private market, while
exempting transactions used to hedge commercial risk. The CFTC
hasn’t published rules defining which companies will be exempt.  Putting caps on swaps trading “poses a unique challenge”
compared with limits in the future market, and the CFTC lacks
the data that would distinguish hedging transactions from
speculation, Gensler said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 