-- Chelsea Players Concerned Ancelotti May Quit, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-15T11:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/chelsea-players-concerned-ancelotti-may-quit-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Ancelotti Exit?  Chelsea  players are worried manager  Carlo Ancelotti  plans
to quit at the end of the season because of his concerns about
the club’s power structure and splits in the squad,  the Sun
said .  The newspaper said the team’s French-speaking players are
allegedly blaming others for the club’s stuttering performance.
The Blues are winless in the last five Premier League games and
have slipped from first to fourth.  Chelsea last season won the F.A. Cup and Premier League
under the Italian coach, who’s been in London for 18 months.  Dzeko to Go?  Wolfsburg  striker Edin Dzeko has written to  Manchester City 
to say he still wants to join the Premier League club, the
 Guardian said .  His German team blocked an earlier move by refusing to
lower its 45 million-pound ($71 million) price tag for the
Bosnian. City wants him to replace or team up with  Carlos Tevez ,
the newspaper said.  Taylor Exit?  Newcastle ’s Steven Taylor may leave the club in a 2
million-pound transfer to Everton, Aston Villa or Wolves, the
 Express said .  The defender’s contract runs out at the end of the season,
and he may have played his last match for Newcastle. The team
will have two suspended defenders available for this weekend’s
match at Birmingham, the newspaper said.  Bayern Wants Baines  Everton  has given  Bayern Munich  a “hands off” warning as
the German club prepares a 10 million-pound bid for  Leighton Baines , the  Sun  reported.  Everton coach  David Moyes  is “desperate” to keep the in-
form left-back, who signed a new five-year deal at the end of
last season, the paper said.  Sven’s Trials  Leicester City  manager Sven-Goran Eriksson may buy South 
Africa striker Bernard Parker, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Parker, who made two appearances for South Africa at this
year’s World Cup, is on trial at Leicester after he failed to
make a mark at Dutch team FC Twente.  Former West Ham midfielder Danny Uchechi has joined
Leicester on a trial basis, the paper said.  Allardyce’s Desert Dreams  Sam Allardyce , sacked by  Blackburn Rovers ’ new owners this
week, will try his luck in Dubai, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  He’s booked a flight to Dubai to do television work and to
put himself on the market for a job.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 