-- China Agrees on Action to Counter Software Piracy, Spur Farm Goods Trade
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-12-16T06:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/china-agrees-to-tackle-software-piracy-after-washington-meetings.html
China agreed to take steps that
would counter mounting losses for U.S. software companies from
piracy and spur shipments of farm goods, as the two nations
sought to ease trade tensions.  “We made measurable progress to open the Chinese market to
U.S.-made products,” U.S. Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke  said
yesterday at a news conference ending two days of meetings with
China’s Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  in Washington. “Of course, now
we need to ensure full implementation of these promises.”  Trade tensions have increased as China reported a record
$153.3 billion of exports for November and some U.S. lawmakers
called for legislation on Chinese imports to combat any
advantages from what they say is an undervalued yuan. The
agreements announced yesterday come ahead of a visit to
Washington by Chinese President  Hu Jintao  next month.  “Today’s promises must be measured not by words on paper,
but by tangible progress on the ground,”  Myron Brilliant ,
senior vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said in a
statement after the announcements. “We urge both governments to
quickly agree on metrics in future discussions that will
quantify that new efforts are in fact translating into
results.”  Trade Deficit  Locke and U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  met with Wang
and a Chinese delegation in Washington as part of the 21st
annual  Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade . The U.S. trade
deficit with China widened to $201 billion in the first nine
months of this year, more than the deficits with the next seven
 largest trading  partners combined.  China is at the same time the U.S.’s third-largest export
market with $69.5 billion of sales in 2009. Sales of goods and
services by U.S. companies in China reached $98.4 billion, more
than a fourfold jump from 2000, according to the U.S.-China
Business Council, a Washington-based group that represents
companies including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc . and  Citigroup Inc .  The Chinese government also at the meetings offered fresh
pledges on express delivery, wind-turbine equipment and medical-
device regulations. The two nations will start work on an
agreement to end restrictions on U.S. beef and poultry exports
to China, Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack  said.  Chinese Middle Class  “China’s burgeoning middle-class are discouraged by the
appalling food safety records within China and are increasingly
looking for food products from overseas,”  Guan Anping , chief
consultant at Beijing Duebound Law Office and a former Chinese
trade official, said by telephone today.  Japan and China imposed restrictions on U.S. beef imports
in 2003 after mad-cow disease was found in three U.S. cattle.
China began imposing anti-dumping duties on U.S. broiler chicken
products in September after the Ministry of Commerce said an
investigation showed the American poultry industry received
subsidized soybean and corn.  In addition, China has also called on the U.S. to relax
export controls on technology products, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported, citing Commerce Minister  Chen Deming . China
aims to achieve a “greater growth” in imports as it maintains
export growth, Chen was cited as saying.  A press official with the Ministry of Commerce, who refused
to be identified because of the agency’s rules, declined to
comment.  U.S. Lawmakers  The U.S.-China  trade gap , the drop in American
manufacturing employment and the lack of appreciation of the
Chinese currency, the yuan, have focused U.S. lawmakers on the
commercial relationship. The House of Representatives passed
legislation in September aimed at forcing China to raise the
value of the yuan.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Sander Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, and the panel’s incoming Republican chairman,
 Dave Camp  of Michigan,  wrote Kirk and Locke  on Dec. 9, prodding
the administration to get China to accept strong new protections
for copyrighted movies, music and software and end
discriminatory restrictions on U.S. investors.  The annual meeting “has been an important vehicle for
dialogue with China on piracy and other issues,” the lawmakers
wrote. “But improved market access results for U.S. companies,
as measured by sales, jobs and exports, have been meager.”  Software Piracy  The  Business Software Alliance , which represents companies
such as  Apple Inc . and  Microsoft Corp. , complains that previous
commitments by China to curb piracy haven’t led to a reduction
in their losses to unlicensed sales. Before the meeting, the
alliance pressed Locke and Kirk to seek from the Chinese a
guarantee that U.S. software sales to China would increase 50
percent in two years.  “We will know China has made real progress in reducing
piracy only when software companies start seeing substantial
increases in sales,” President Richard Holleyman said in an e-
mail statement yesterday.  In addition to commitments on software, China agreed to
deal with U.S. demands to ease its rules requiring Chinese-
developed technologies for government projects and said it would
revise an offer to join the government procurement agreement of
the World Trade Organization in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  