-- China's Stocks Retreat on Policy Tightening Concerns; Developers Decline
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-15T07:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/china-stocks-fluctuate-as-consumer-staples-gain-property-developers-drop.html
China’s stocks  fell for the first
time in four days on concern accelerating inflation will spur
the government to further tighten monetary policy.  China Vanke Co.  and Poly Real Estate Group Co. led declines
for developers after the China Daily reported the city of
Beijing may introduce more measures to rein in property prices.
Air China Ltd. slid 0.8 percent after an industry group said
slower global economic growth and rising fuel costs may hurt
profits for airlines. China Shenhua Energy Co. and Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co. climbed at least 1.3 percent on speculation colder-
than-normal weather will boost coal demand.  “Inflationary pressure still exists in China and that’s an
overhang for the market,” said  Zhang Kun , a strategist at
Guotai Junan Securities Co. in Shanghai. “No rate increase at
the moment doesn’t mean the central bank won’t do that in the
future.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  dropped 15.66 points, or 0.5
percent, to 2,911.41 at the 3 p.m. close. The  CSI 300 Index  lost
0.7 percent to 3,247.64. Stocks extended losses after Moody’s
Investors Service said it put Spain’s Aa1 local and foreign
currency government bond ratings on review for possible
downgrade.  The Shanghai gauge has lost 7.9 percent since reaching an
almost seven-month high on Nov. 8 on concern that monetary
tightening will curb economic growth. The central bank on Dec.
10 ordered lenders to park more money with the central bank for
the third time in five weeks to soak up excessive liquidity. It
remains down 11 percent this year.  Developers Fall  A gauge of developers fell 1.2 percent in the Shanghai
Composite, the most among the five industry groups.  Vanke, the nation’s biggest developer, slid 0.7 percent to
8.35 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second largest, dropped 2
percent to 12.38 yuan.  Gemdale Corp. , the fourth largest, lost
1.3 percent to 5.92 yuan.  Beijing may introduce additional measures aimed at curbing
home price gains in the Chinese capital, including ones related
to taxes and the availability of credit, the China Daily
reported, citing Xu Zhijun, spokesman for the Beijing Municipal
Commission of Housing and Urban-Rural Development.  Chinese consumers signaled their deepest concern with
 inflation  since 1999, according to a survey from the central
bank. The People’s Bank of China survey of 20,000 people in 50
cities showed 74 percent considered prices too high, 15.6
percentage points more than in the third quarter, the bank said
on its website today.  Rate Outlook  Policy makers may raise rates by another quarter percentage
point by the end of December to curb inflation after consumer
prices climbed 5.1 percent in November,  Frances Cheung , a
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, said yesterday.  Authorities have held off on adding to October’s interest-
rate increase, instead ratcheting up banks’ reserve requirements
and using administrative tools such as sales of food reserves to
tackle inflation.  Air China, the nation’s largest international carrier, slid
0.8 percent to 13.05 yuan. The airline carried 8.3 percent more
passengers in November than a year earlier, the slowest growth
in at least five months, its data showed.  A gauge of energy producers advanced 0.8 percent for the
biggest gain among the 10 industry groups in the CSI 300.
Shenhua, the nation’s largest coal producer, rose 1.3 percent to
25.19 yuan, while Yanzhou Coal, the listed unit of China’s
fourth-biggest coal miner, rallied 1.8 percent to 29.75 yuan.  Consumer Staples  Beijing News reported today that the temperature in the
Chinese capital dropped to as low as minus 10.9 degrees celsius,
a 10-year low. China’s domestic coal prices typically increase
during winter because of heating needs.  Kweichow Moutai Co., China’s biggest producer of baijiu
liquor by market value, led gains for consumer staples producers,
rising 1.4 percent to 200.70 yuan.  Shanxi Xinghuacun Fen Wine
Factory Co.  gained 1.2 percent to 72.33 yuan.  Kweichow Moutai has raised prices of its standard-size
bottle sold to distributors by 60 yuan, the China Daily reported
today, citing the Southern Metropolis Daily.  Fan Ningping , an
investor relations official at Kweichow Moutai, didn’t answer
phone calls made to the company’s office.  Deutsche Bank AG advised investors to focus on select
consumer staples companies, saying China’s higher inflation and
government price controls may affect “overall sentiment”
toward the industry.  “High-end white spirits, tobacco, and foreign-brand infant
formula companies have strong pricing power to pass on cost
increases, while food retailers benefit from higher CPI,”
analysts  Mabel Wong  and  Rebecca Jiang  wrote in a report.  -- Zhang Shidong . With assistance from  Irene Shen  in Shanghai.
Editor:  Allen Wan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  