-- China Consumers Signal Deepest Inflation Concern Since 1999 in PBOC Survey
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-15T09:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/china-consumers-signal-deepest-inflation-concern-since-1999-in-pboc-survey.html
Chinese consumers are more concerned
about  rising prices  than at any time in the past decade,
underscoring the pressure on policy makers to step up efforts to
counter inflation running at a two-year high.  A price satisfaction index fell to 13.8 this quarter, the
lowest level since data began in the fourth quarter of 1999, the
central bank said on its website today.  Authorities have held off on adding to October’s interest-
rate increase, instead ratcheting up banks’ reserve requirements
and using tools such as sales of food reserves to tackle
inflation. The Commerce Ministry said today it will “closely
monitor” prices over the next quarter, especially during
holiday periods, and keep releasing stores of pork and sugar.  “Interest-rate normalization is the best option,”  Yao Wei ,
an economist at Societe Generale SA, said in Hong Kong today.
Inflation is “eroding purchasing power” and encouraging
consumers to shift savings into assets such as stocks, she said.  The benchmark one-year deposit rate is currently 2.5
percent and the lending rate is 5.56 percent after October’s
quarter-point increases.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  of stocks closed 0.5 percent
lower, the first decline in four days, on concern that
accelerating inflation will spur more monetary tightening.  Wealth Gap  China needs to “urgently” stabilize prices to safeguard
people’s standards of living, the National Development and
Reform Commission, the nation’s top planning agency,  said  on its
website today after a meeting in Beijing of regional price-
bureau heads.  The ruling Communist Party aims to prevent rising prices
and a widening gap between rich and poor from leading to public
discontent and unrest.  November’s 5.1 percent annual gain in consumer prices was
the biggest in 28 months, with food costs climbing 11.7 percent,
also the most since July 2008.  “There is a wide belief in China that real CPI inflation
is higher than the data has indicated,” said  Shen Jianguang ,
chief China economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “Low-income people feel strongly about it.”  In total, 74 percent of households considered prices too
high, up 15.6 percentage points from the third quarter, the
central bank said. Its fourth-quarter survey was of 20,000
households in 50 cities.  Price Controls  Inflation expectations are “intensifying,” the central
bank said, with 61 percent expecting price gains in the next
quarter. In the previous survey, the proportion was 46 percent.  The government has pledged to use price controls on daily
necessities where necessary. Such measures are in force in the
southern city of Kunming, where retailers such as  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.  and  Carrefour SA  have been told to report any
planned price rises.  More than 80 million people may need food aid over the
winter and spring after natural disasters, the government said
last month.  Inflows of capital may hamper government efforts to cool
prices for consumer goods and in the property market by adding
to liquidity.  Foreign direct investment  in China rose 38 percent
in November from a year earlier, to $9.7 billion, the Ministry
of Commerce said in a statement in Beijing today.  Asset Markets  The central-bank survey indicated that accelerating
inflation may encourage people to switch money to property and
stocks from savings accounts, hampering efforts to avert asset
bubbles in real estate in some cities. Of those surveyed, 45
percent preferred to put money into investment, up from 39
percent in the third quarter. The proportion keen on saving fell.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government pledged to do more to
stabilize prices after an economic planning conference ended in
Beijing on Dec. 12.  China has set a 4 percent inflation  target  for next year,
state television reported yesterday, citing the National
Development and Reform Commission.  In the central bank survey, 76 percent of households said
property prices were unacceptably high. That was the largest
proportion since the question was first included, in the first
quarter of 2009.  The high cost of housing in China is widening the wealth
gap, Li Shenming, deputy head of the Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences said in Beijing on Dec. 8. China’s Gini coefficient, a
measure of inequality, reached 0.47 in 2009, exceeding the 0.4
mark used as a predictor for social unrest, according to World
Bank data.  Meantime, an indicator of China’s economic outlook rose for
a sixth month in October, climbing 0.9 percent to 152.1, the New
York-based Conference Board said on its website today.  A measure of lenders’ confidence fell in the fourth quarter
to the lowest level in a year, another central bank survey
showed today. About half of financial institution executives
expect a tighter monetary policy in the next quarter, according
to the poll.  -- Sophie Leung , with assistance from  Zheng Lifei ,  Alf Cang , Luo
Jun,  Li Yanping . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Chris Anstey   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6126 or
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  