-- China May Raise Interest Rates 6 Times Through 2011, Mizuho's Suzuki Says
-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2010-12-15T23:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/china-may-lift-rates-6-times-next-year-on-inflation-mizuho-s-suzuki-says.html
China may raise interest rates up to
six times by the end of next year as inflation becomes more
entrenched in the economy, according to Mizuho Research
Institute Ltd.  China’s central bank has relied on reserve-requirement
ratios to help control liquidity, and with  levels  near 20
percent there’s little room for increases, said  Takamoto Suzuki ,
a senior economist at the unit of Japan’s third-largest bank.  “A rate hike will be inevitable,” Tokyo-based Suzuki
said. “It wouldn’t be surprising if the central bank lifts
interest rates by about 1.5 percentage points by the end of next
year.”  Consumer prices  climbed 5.1 percent in November from a year
earlier, the fastest since July 2008, the statistics bureau said
on Dec. 11. The People’s Bank of China this month announced its
sixth increase in reserve-requirement ratios, making major banks
to set aside 18.5 percent of deposits. The PBOC raised borrowing
costs in October for the first time since December 2007,
increasing the one-year  deposit rate  to 2.5 percent and the
 lending rate  to 5.56 percent.  The central bank is aiming to unwind a super-easy monetary
policy enacted in the wake of the financial crisis, so
tightening won’t likely dampen growth, said Suzuki, who had been
based in Shanghai from June 2008 until earlier this month.  The central bank may also use open-market operations
focused on three-year bills for the first time since 2007 to
absorb liquidity, he said.  Growth Model  China’s leaders pledged at an annual meeting this month to
accelerate a shift in the nation’s growth model in 2011 and also
to focus on stabilizing prices. Policy makers set an inflation
target of 4 percent next year, China Central Television reported
this week, citing the National Development and Reform
Commission.  The nation’s cabinet confirmed in November that the
government may impose temporary price controls on “important
daily necessities” and production materials. Inflation is
becoming more pervasive as China’s economy develops, spreading
to fuel and public services, Suzuki said.  “When the economy grows around 10 percent, 4 or 5 percent
inflation will be unavoidable,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeki Nozawa  in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  