-- Chronic Fatigue Patients Should Be Barred From Giving Blood, Panel Says
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-12-15T17:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/chronic-fatigue-patients-shouldn-t-donate-blood-fda-advisers-say-in-vote.html
Americans with  chronic fatigue
syndrome  may be barred from donating blood because of concern
that the disease is linked to a virus found in prostate cancer.  Outside  advisers  to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
voted 9-4 yesterday in Gaithersburg, Maryland, that scientific
evidence supports asking prospective donors whether they have
chronic fatigue as a basis for preventing donations, Shelly
Burgess, a spokeswoman for the agency, said in an e-mail. The
FDA has the authority to ban certain blood donors, as it has
with  gay men , and usually follows its panels’ recommendations.  The Washington-based  American Red Cross , the largest U.S.
supplier of blood products, announced Dec. 3 that it would no
longer allow donors diagnosed with the condition after studies
found a virus called XMRV may be linked to chronic fatigue
syndrome. The FDA can set policy for other organizations that
accept blood, including hospitals.  “This is just establishing that we have scientific data
that supports asking,” Burgess said today, adding that the
agency hasn’t laid out a timeline for further action. “The
consensus was we need more studies.”  The U.K., Australia, Canada and New Zealand have decided to
defer blood donations from people with chronic fatigue syndrome,
according to the FDA. The policies are based on donors
volunteering their medical history; there’s no specific question
about chronic fatigue syndrome during screening.  Exhaustion, Joint Pain  Chronic fatigue syndrome affects more than 1 million
Americans, mainly women, according to the U.S.  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. The illness, marked
by exhaustion, joint and muscle pain, lacks a widely accepted
cure or approved treatments.  Almost 90 percent of patients with chronic fatigue syndrome
showed signs a virus related to XMRV in a study released in
August. XMRV was found in two-thirds of chronic fatigue patients
and 3.7 percent of healthy people in a trial reported in October
2009. CDC researchers failed to find a viral link to the illness
in a  study  released in July 2009.  XMRV was first identified in 2006 in tissue specimens from
men with prostate cancer, according to the CDC. While XMRV
hasn’t been shown to spread through blood transfusions, the FDA
 says  it’s theoretically possible since the virus has been
detected in blood cells.  The AABB, formerly known as the American Association of
Blood Banks, recommended in  June  that blood-collecting
organizations actively discourage potential donors diagnosed
with chronic fatigue syndrome until more definitive data are
available.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 