-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Probably Rose in November on Fuel Costs
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-15T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/consumer-prices-in-u-s-probably-rose-in-november-on-higher-gasoline-costs.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably rose for a fifth month in November, led by higher
gasoline prices that aren’t filtering through to other goods and
services, economists said before a government report today.  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent for a second
month, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before a Labor Department report. The so-
called core measure, which excludes more volatile food and
energy costs, may have increased 0.6 percent from November 2009,
matching a record low. Another report may show industrial
production increased in November by the most in four months.  Retailers such as Target Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. are
discounting merchandise to stoke demand during the holiday
shopping season as  joblessness  lingers near 10 percent. Limited
inflation and a stagnant labor market underscore the Federal
Reserve’s decision yesterday to stay the course as it pursues
record monetary stimulus.  “There’s very little ability to raise prices,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in St.
Petersburg, Florida. “I would expect inflation to remain
relatively low in the near term and then gradually move back
up.”  The Labor Department’s price data are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates of the 79 economists surveyed ranged from
no change to a gain of 0.3 percent.  Prices  excluding fuel and food  rose 0.1 percent from a
month earlier after no change in October, according to the
Bloomberg survey. The 0.6 percent projected increase in core
costs from a year ago would match October’s 12-month gain as the
smallest since records began in 1958.  Food and Fuel  So far this year, price increases have occurred primarily
in food and energy, reflecting increased demand from China and
other emerging markets for commodities. The cost of a gallon of
regular gasoline at the pump averaged $2.86 in November, up from
$2.80 the prior month, according to  data from AAA , the nation’s
largest motoring group.  At the same time, the struggling housing market is
restraining the CPI. Rents, which account for about 40 percent
of core consumer prices, have been held in check as foreclosures
push more houses into the rental market.  “Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable,
but measures of underlying inflation have continued to trend
downward,” Fed officials said yesterday in their Federal Open
Market Committee statement.  Employment and Inflation  The Fed, which has a statutory mandate of fostering maximum
employment and price stability, said “the unemployment rate is
elevated, and measures of underlying inflation are somewhat
low.” This explains why the central bank last month announced
it would buy up to $600 billion in Treasuries through June.  The CPI is the broadest of three monthly price gauges from
the Labor Department, because it includes goods and services.
Almost 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers pay for
services ranging from medical visits to airline fares and movie
tickets.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed the producer-
price index in November increased 0.8 percent and the cost of
goods excluding fuel and food rose 0.3 percent, both more than
forecast. The cost of goods imported into the U.S., reported
last week, rose 1.3 percent from the prior month, the most in a
year, and higher than the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Manufacturing Gains  Manufacturing is still powering ahead after spearheading
the U.S. economic recovery from the worst recession since the
1930s. A report from the Fed, scheduled for release at 9:15 a.m.
in Washington, will show industrial production rose 0.3 percent
in November after being little changed a month earlier,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Figures from the New York Fed at 8:30 a.m. may show
manufacturing in that region  rebounded  this month after
contracting in November for the first time since July 2009,
economists said.  The strength in manufacturing helps explain why shares of
machinery makers have outpaced broader indexes. The  Standard &
Poor’s Machinery Index , which includes Cummins Inc. and
Caterpillar Inc., has surged 45 percent this year compared with
an 11 percent gain in the S&P 500.  Housing, the industry at the forefront of the recession,
has shown little improvement. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo’s confidence  index  held at 16 this month,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The
figures are slated for 10 a.m. and readings less than 50 mean
more respondents said conditions are poor than good.  Retail Prices  Meantime, retailers that are cutting prices are drumming up
demand, while those that not discounting enough are struggling.  Best Buy Co., the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, yesterday slashed its annual profit forecast amid
increasing competition from  Wal-Mart  and Target. Best Buy lost
TV sales in the third quarter to “the large discounters” that
promoted the least-expensive models, Chief Executive Brian Dunn
said on a conference call.  “What has really gone big in home theater so far this
season is opening price point, tier-three brands going out at
really, really hot prices,” Dunn, 50, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “We don’t feature them.”  Consumers bought cheaper models of flat-panel TVs with
screens of 36 inches and smaller for $229 to $299, Dunn said.
Rising demand for smartphones and tablet computers also hurt
spending on TVs, he said.  For Best Buy, “the U.S. business was pretty miserable,”
Joe Feldman, an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in New York,
said yesterday. “Sales are going to places like Amazon, Wal-
Mart, Target, Costco and Sears.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  