-- Credit Agricole Plans to Enlarge European Business Over Decade
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2010-12-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/credit-agricole-plans-to-enlarge-european-business-over-decade.html
Groupe Credit Agricole , France’s
largest lender by branches, plans to bolster its consumer-
banking and financial-services businesses in European countries
such as Poland in the next decade.  “We should help our regional banks more in their
development,”  Jean-Paul Chifflet , chief executive officer of
 Credit Agricole SA , the listed bank majority owned by 39 French
regional lenders, told journalists in Paris. The strategic plans
for the next 10 years are “less adventurous” compared with the
past decade as the company wants its corporate- and investment-
banking unit to be “more attached” to retail businesses.  Chifflet, formerly secretary general of the listed bank’s
largest investor, became CEO in March after his predecessor,
 Georges Pauget , had scaled back the lender’s corporate- and
investment-banking  division  to trim losses. Credit Agricole has
also said it plans to stop losses by 2012 at its Athens-based
unit, Emporiki Bank of Greece SA, bought in 2006.  Chifflet confirmed the estimated time frame for the
Emporiki turnaround and also said that Credit Agricole has no
plans to sell its 24 percent stake in Spain’s Bankinter SA or
its holding in Portugal’s Banco Espirito Santo SA.  Crisis ‘Turbulence’  “Turbulences may continue for a few months, but life goes
on,”  Dominique Lefebvre , chairman of Credit Agricole’s national
federation, said about the European sovereign-debt crisis. “The
European economy isn’t going to be erased from the map.”  Credit Agricole  wants to increase its number of clients
outside of France from 6.5 million currently, it said in a
presentation to be handed today to 1,400 executives. The company
plans to grow its retail-banking businesses in European
countries such as Poland and also in the Mediterranean area. It
would come mostly from building on Credit Agricole’s franchises.  In Italy, where Credit Agricole has a branch network
serving 1.4 million clients, it wants to “find a good
compromise” for a partnership between its asset-management unit
Amundi, a joint venture it formed with Societe Generale SA, and
UniCredit SpA’s fund division, Pioneer Global Asset Management,
Chifflet said. A “proposal” has been made to Pioneer under
“very precise” terms, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 