-- Daimler's By-the-Minute Smart Car Rentals Woo Customers From Mazda, Fiat
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-12-16T10:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/daimler-s-by-the-minute-rentals-woo-customers-from-mazda-fiat.html
Daimler AG , maker of the Smart city
car, is stealing customers from Mazda Motor Corp. and Fiat SpA
with rentals aimed at drivers ready to forgo auto ownership.  “I thought I would miss my car,” said Sam Eder, a 33-
year-old marketing manager in Austin, Texas, who sold his  Mazda 
Miata in June after signing up with Daimler. “But I just hit
the six-month mark without it and don’t miss it at all.”  Daimler’s Car2go service, which rents Smart cars by the
minute in Austin and the German town of Ulm, will add Hamburg
early in 2011 and is in talks with “dozens” more cities in
Europe and North America, said Robert Henrich, the unit’s chief.  Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler is competing with  Hertz
Global Holdings Inc.  and Zipcar Inc. for a share of an industry
likely to surge 12-fold to $7 billion in revenue in Europe and
North America by 2016, according to a Frost & Sullivan study.
The growth reflects a shift in people in their 20s and 30s, who
see car ownership as a financial drag with little status upside.
That view challenges the traditional auto business of making and
selling vehicles to people like Niran Babalola.  The 25-year-old director of technology at an Austin non-
profit organization, who prefers to ride his bike, uses Car2go
when he’s running late or can’t get sweaty. He says he’s
forgoing a car to make a social statement.  “I like living in walkable places and so by supporting
that in my choices, I hope they’ll make more walkable places,”
said Babalola. “It’s a bit of wishful thinking.”  Younger Appeal  Car sharing is attractive to younger drivers in part
because they grew up with monthly cell-phone bills and are
accustomed to pay-as-you-go services. The lack of parking also
complicates car ownership in crowded city centers, the main
target of Car2go and other such offerings. The trend is pushing
automakers including  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and PSA Peugeot
Citroen to develop services to woo these consumers.  “We’re seeing a growing trend toward collaborative
consumption,” said Aswin Kumar, an analyst with consulting firm
Frost & Sullivan in Kuala Lumpur. “That metamorphosis is
inevitable; the auto companies have to change from being a
manufacturer to a service provider.”  Car2go, which only offers the two-seat  Smart , differs from
competitors by allowing consumers to rent by the minute rather
than the hour. It doesn’t charge for distances as long as the
trip is less than 150 miles (240 kilometers).  The system, based on GPS technology, allows users to end a
rental anywhere within the city’s operating area, making one-way
rentals the norm. Other car-sharing models typically require the
cars to be returned to their home station.  Service Trend  “The trend to mobility as a service is reality, and we
made the decision to be at the forefront,” Car2go chief Henrich
said in an interview. “We are serious about this market and
want to develop a profitable and significant business that
doesn’t disappear as a rounding factor in  Daimler ’s earnings.”  Like Eder, Andreas Neukamm, a 43-year-old graphic designer
from Ulm, which has 120,000 residents, has given up on car
ownership. He sold his Fiat Barchetta roadster in 2008 and
joined Car2go in its first week in March 2009. He now spends
about 100 euros ($133) a month on Car2go to meet 90 percent of
his transportation needs.  “I’m not thinking of buying a car again,” he said. “It
offers all the flexibility I need.”  That attitude presents both an opportunity and a challenge.
A car-sharing fleet of 150,000 to 200,000 cars could eventually
replace about 1 million consumer-owned vehicles, Kumar
estimates.  “Over the long term it’s a threat, because they’re helping
consumers get out of owning a car,” he said.  Car-Sharing Growth  Still, automakers don’t have much choice because ignoring
the trend would mean missing out. The number of consumers
seeking car-sharing services may rise to more than 9.8 million
worldwide in 2016 from about 900,000 last year, according to
Frost & Sullivan’s report, which was published last March.  Daimler will expand to Hamburg, Germany’s second-biggest
city after Berlin, in the first quarter. The addition of
Hamburg, which has 1.77 million residents, and growth in Austin
and Ulm, will more than double the fleet to 900 cars from 400.
Several more cities will probably be added in 2011, Henrich
said.  “There’s a significant first-mover advantage in this
business,” said Henrich. “We want to be first in these markets
and make it difficult on the competition.”  Short-Term Rentals  BMW, which outsells  Daimler ’s Mercedes-Benz, is
experimenting with short-term rentals in Munich. Peugeot
Citroen, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker after Volkswagen AG,
began offering subscription-based access to Peugeot cars, vans,
scooters and bicycles in 14 European cities last year. The
Citroen brand has also introduced a service providing short-term
access to a vehicle within three hours.  A Smart customized for Car2go rolls out in February,
featuring solar panels on the roof to power the electronics and
cool the car in hot weather. The model also has more robust
seats, upgraded radios and navigation systems and automatic
start-stop, which shuts down the engine at traffic lights, to
save fuel.  Car2go members pay a one-time registration fee for an
access card to rent a car located wherever the last customer
parked. The pretax usage fees in Austin, which include mileage,
fuel, insurance and parking, are 35 cents per minute, discounted
to $12.99 for an hour and $65.99 for a day. In Ulm, the per-
minute rate is 0.19 euros. In Hamburg, where Daimler is teaming
up with rental agency Europcar Groupe SA, the per-minute fee
will be 0.29 euros.  IPhone App  Eder, who uses Car2go to fill gaps in Austin’s mass transit
system, has an application on his Apple Inc.  iPhone  to locate
the nearest vehicle, typically less than four blocks away. There
have been hiccups. Earlier this month, a car that appeared on
the digital map wasn’t there in reality, leaving him temporarily
stranded. Even so, he’s not going back to owning a car and
figures his Car2go bill is less than his insurance payments.  “It’s really helpful when you miss the bus,” Eder said.
“This car makes it a workable system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 