-- Day-Care Centers, Hotels Must Replace All Cribs as U.S. Adopts Safety Rule
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2010-12-15T18:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/day-care-centers-hotels-must-replace-all-cribs-as-u-s-adopts-safety-rule.html
U.S. day-care centers and hotels
will have to replace all cribs after a U.S. safety regulator
approved what it called an unprecedented rule to prevent infant
deaths and injuries.  The five-member Consumer Product Safety Commission was
unanimous in a vote today to mandate sturdier cribs and ban the
drop-side design, linked to at least 32 infant deaths from falls
or strangulation since 2000. Commercial providers may pay $467.5
million to replace 935,000 cribs based on an average cost of
$500 each, according to CPSC estimates.  The rule will be among the toughest in the world, CPSC
Chairman  Inez Tenenbaum  said. Child-care centers and hotels will
have two years to replace them after commissioners voted four to
one to extend the deadline to give makers time to meet the surge
in demand and to ease costs.  “So many of these are small businesses which may not have
the resources to replace their cribs all of them at one time,”
Tenenbaum said. The vote delivers on a promise to Congress and
parents to “establish robust mandatory standards aimed at
keeping babies safe in their cribs,” she said.  Tenenbaum has made crib safety one of the biggest
priorities at the CPSC in her 18-month tenure. Her “safe
sleep” initiative is broader than the crib rule, encouraging
parents to place sleeping infants on their backs and warning
about the risk of suffocation from soft bedding.  Tougher Tests  The regulations approved today will result in cribs with
tighter fittings and more durable sides and mattress supports.
Tougher tests will be used to simulate wear over time.  The agency estimates there are 2.4 million new cribs sold
each year in the U.S., with approximately 591 full-size and 81
non-full-size models. Sixty-eight companies make or import full-
size cribs in the U.S., the CPSC said.  The rules will affect 59,555 day-care firms and 43,303
hotels and inns, the CPSC estimated.  A trio of child-care industry groups -- the  National Head
Start Association , the National Association for Family Child
Care and the Early Care and Education Consortium -- puts the
price tag for replacing cribs at $600 million.  Child-care centers typically replace cribs every 10 years,
the groups said.  Drop-Side Cribs  The cost of replacing drop-side cribs alone may be about
$550 million, Marie Darstein, executive director of the National
Child Care Association, said in an interview yesterday.  The Washington-based trade group, which represents
businesses such as day-care chain  Sunshine House , had told the
CPSC its members believe existing cribs are safe because their
staff check on children in them.  “Every recall, we’ve done,” Darstein said in the
interview. “Every retrofit, we’ve done. No one is being left
unattended. We’re being treated like we’re the manufacturers.”  In the months leading up to today’s vote, Tenenbaum
emphasized the need to eliminate the drop-side design. The
agency has spearheaded 20 recalls by makers such as  Dorel
Industries Inc. , covering more than 7 million drop-side cribs in
the past three years, and affecting retailers including  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.   Materials costs may rise more than 10 percent as
manufacturers use more robust components to comply with the
rule, said Linda Villa Woody, a spokeswoman for the Juvenile
Products Manufacturers Association in Mount Laurel, New Jersey.  The trade group represents LaJobi, a subsidiary of Kid
Brands Inc., and Stork Craft Manufacturing Inc., two of the
biggest U.S. crib makers. Wal-Mart, Babies ‘R’ Us, Target Corp.,
J.C. Penney Co., Burlington and BuyBuyBaby are the six largest
U.S. crib  retailers , according to the JPMA.  Lead-Paint Scare  Drop-side cribs allow one side to be raised or lowered on
tracks, providing parents with easier access to the bed. Infants
can suffocate or be strangled when the hardware fails and a side
detaches, creating a gap.  In response to the Chinese lead-paint toy scare that
spurred  Mattel Inc. , the world’s largest toymaker, to recall
Dora the Explorer and Sesame Street figurines, Congress gave the
CPSC mandates and deadlines to improve children’s products in
the 2008 Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act.  In the case of cribs, Congress asked the agency to
implement its regulation retroactively, making it illegal for
retailers to sell non-compliant cribs. It also specified that
places of public accommodation, like child-care centers and
hotels, shouldn’t use cribs that don’t conform to the new rules.  `Peace of Mind'  “Parents and caregivers should have peace of mind that
when they leave their baby in a crib that their baby will be
safe,” said  Rachel Weintraub , product safety director for the
Consumer Federation of America. “For too long, that has not
been the case.”  The need for the tougher testing was evident for years
before Congress acted, said Nancy Cowles, executive director of
Chicago-based  Kids in Danger , an advocacy group. Aside from the
drop-side design, other kinds of hardware failures have resulted
in fatalities, she said.  Cribs made under the new rule will be much safer than
existing models, even ones that have been repaired through
recalls, Cowles said.  “There’s going to be a huge difference in how sturdy these
cribs are,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 