-- Delta Open to New Ventures Amid ‘Final Stages’ of Consolidation
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-12-15T21:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/delta-sees-2011-system-capacity-growth-of-1-3-.html
Delta Air Lines Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Anderson  said the carrier’s joint venture with
 Air France-KLM  and  Alitalia  has had the “economic effect of
merging” and will serve as a template for future accords.  Delta executives declined to comment today during a webcast
investor conference about a Sky News report that Delta was among
carriers exploring a tie-up with  Richard Branson ’s Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd., which has hired Deutsche Bank AG as an
adviser.  Delta’s SkyTeam Alliance global marketing group has sought
new partners including China Airlines so they can sell seats on
each other’s flights and gain service within regulatory
limitation. Delta, Air France-KLM and Alitalia have an even
deeper arrangement that lets them coordinate fares and schedules
for trans-Atlantic flights.  “The economic growth is going to be outside the U.S., and
so I think we need to be certain that we’re flexible enough to
participate, either through joint ventures or other sorts of
arrangements,” Anderson said.  Delta can “use that model with Air France-KLM to get the
same kinds of synergies on revenue and cost without trans-border
mergers” with other carriers, Anderson said.  Delta today reiterated its plan to use free cash to pay
down debt, with a goal of trimming it to $10 billion by 2012
from $15 billion now.  A stronger  balance sheet  will help Delta “be certain that
we participate in what I sort of called the final stages of
consolidation,” as the industry continues to be more
deregulated, Anderson said.  More Mergers  The global industry has completed about three-fourths of
the mergers that are necessary, Anderson said, without
specifying how many more he thinks should happen.  Delta bought Minneapolis-based Northwest Airlines Corp. in
2008, a deal that made it the world’s biggest carrier until
United Airlines and Continental Airlines combined in October to
form the larger  United Continental Holdings Inc.  In September,
 Southwest Airlines Co.  agreed to purchase  AirTran Holdings Inc. 
in a cash and stock deal.  Joint ventures are critical because some countries,
including the U.S., have laws limiting foreign ownership of
airlines. Overseas companies can hold up to 49 percent of stock
in U.S. carriers, or 25 percent of voting stock.  Virgin Atlantic is 49 percent-owned by Singapore Airlines
Ltd., and analysts in the U.K. said any new deal involving
Virgin may hinge on whether Singapore wants to sell its stake.
Singapore Airlines declined to comment on its plans.  Delta is awaiting regulatory approval on a joint venture
with Australia’s  Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. , and the carrier will
“hopefully have a positive announcement on that within the next
60 days or so,” said  Glen Hauenstein , executive vice president
of network and revenue management.  Seat Growth Capped  Delta said 2011 seating capacity will increase no more than
3 percent as it works on accumulating $2 billion in free cash to
pay down debt.  Available seating will grow at roughly the same rate as the
U.S. gross domestic product, with the biggest gains on routes to
London’s Heathrow airport, Tokyo’s Haneda, Beijing and Shanghai,
Delta said today in a  regulatory filing .  Managing capacity helps airlines gain pricing power by
matching the supply of seats with demand. Revenue in 2011 for
each seat flown a mile, an industry benchmark, will meet the
level last seen in 2008, before air travel slumped during the
global recession, Atlanta-based Delta said.  This year will “end up being our best year in the past
decade,” Anderson said during the investor meeting in New York.  Operating Margin  The airline reiterated its projection for a fourth-quarter
operating profit margin of at least 6 percent and narrowed the
upper end of the range to 7 percent from as much as 8 percent
previously, citing higher costs.  The shares slid  40 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $12.64 at 4:03
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Delta has
risen 11 percent this year.  Discussions with planemakers about a possible narrow-body
order are planned for next year, Delta President  Ed Bastian 
said.  The 542 jets in Delta’s domestic fleet have an average age
of 16 years, according to Bastian. An Oct. 25 filing showed that
Delta’s planes included about 40 narrow-body DC-9s that are 34
years old on average, more than 100 MD-88s that are 20 years old
and 160  Boeing Co.  757-200s that are about 18 years old.  Delta has been retiring the oldest DC-9s and plans to cull
some MD-88s in the coming years, Bastian said. Both those models
were built by a Boeing predecessor.  “We do realize we need to assess our options over the long
term,” Bastian said. “We will be opening up conversations with
manufacturers in the first part of 2011.”  Airbus Option  Asked by an analyst whether Delta would consider the  Airbus
SAS  A320 with new fuel-efficient engines, which the planemaker
plans to introduce in 2016, Bastian said: “We’ll have more data
when we talk to the manufacturers.”  Anderson said this month in a weekly message to employees
that “we’ll look closer at the A320 to see if it might merit
deeper consideration for our long-term fleet plans.”  Boeing’s 
commercial airplanes chief,  Jim Albaugh , said in October that
the business case for putting new engines on its single-aisle
737 jets “is not as compelling as we’d like to see.”  When Delta does order new narrow-body planes, it will
consider leasing and owning the aircraft outright, Bastian said.  The international wide-body fleet of 175 jets is about 11
years old on average, and “we’re very comfortable with where we
sit” with those planes, Bastian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 