-- Stocks Follow Treasuries Lower; Dollar Rises on Europe Concern
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-15T21:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/dollar-strengthens-as-fed-retains-stimulus-spending-asian-stocks-retreat.html
U.S. stocks fell, pulling the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down from a two-year high, after a
six-day rally left the benchmark gauge trading at its most
expensive level since June and a surge in bond yields fueled
concern borrowing costs will increase. The dollar rallied.  The S&P 500 slipped 0.5 percent to 1,235.23 at 4 p.m. in
New York after starting the day trading at  15.5 times  the
reported earnings of its companies. The 10-year Treasury yield
climbed three basis points to 3.52 percent, the highest since
May, after surging 22 basis points yesterday. The dollar
strengthened against 14 of 16 major peers, jumping 1.2 percent
against the euro. Oil rose following the biggest decrease in
inventories in eight years, while gold slid the most in a week.  Treasuries slid for a second day as faster-than-forecast
growth in industrial production and New York manufacturing added
to evidence the economic recovery is strengthening. Europe’s
benchmark equities index slid 0.4 percent, snapping a seven-day
rally, as Moody’s Investors Service placed Spain’s Aa1 debt
rating on review for a possible downgrade.  “Stock investors are focused on the bond market,” said Eric
Teal, chief investment officer at First Citizens Bancshares Inc.
in Raleigh, North Carolina, which manages $4.5 billion. “People
are concerned about higher borrowing costs even as the Fed tries
to keep interest rates low. There’s also heightened concern
about Europe. On top of that, we saw a run up in equities and
I’d say we’re in a sort of neutral valuation range.”  Improving Data  The 30-year Treasury yield advanced six basis points to
4.59 percent, adding to yesterday’s 12 basis-point advance and
reaching the highest level since April.  Industrial production growth of 0.4 percent for November
topped the 0.3 percent median economist estimate in a Bloomberg
survey, while the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic index climbed to 10.6, also exceeding projections, from
minus 11.1 in November. Labor Department data showed the
consumer-price index increased 0.1 percent, less than estimated
and indicating higher commodity prices aren’t filtering through
into other goods and services.  Alcoa Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and General Electric Co.
slumped more than 1 percent to lead losses in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average, which slipped 19.07 points, or 0.2 percent,
to 11,457.47 after closing at the highest level since Sept. 8,
2008, yesterday.  Visa, MasterCard  Visa Inc. and MasterCard Inc. fell 4.6 percent and 1.9
percent respectively as Canada’s competition watchdog said they
use unfair rules to prevent merchants from accepting cheaper
payment options and before a meeting tomorrow by the Federal
Reserve Board, which may disclose proposed caps on debit-card
transaction fees mandated by the financial-regulation overhaul.
Chipmakers slumped after Gartner Inc. predicted spending on
semiconductor equipment will drop next year.  More than three stocks fell for every two that rose in the
Stoxx 600, with banks leading the selloff.  Banco Santander SA ,
Spain’s largest lender, lost 2.6 percent, while  Barclays Plc 
fell 3.7 percent. Healthcare stocks limited the decline, as
 Novartis AG  rallied 4.9 percent after agreeing to pay $12.9
billion to take full control of Alcon Inc.  Atos Origin SA  rose
13 percent after Siemens AG said it will take a 15 percent stake
in the company.  The European equity benchmark snapped its longest rally
since June as Moody’s cited the 170 billion euros ($226 billion)
the nation needs to raise next year and fueling concern Europe’s
debt crisis is spreading even after Greece and Ireland got
bailouts.  ‘Countries Under Pressure’  “One trend which is going to go into at least the first
quarter of next year is going to be further downgrades of the
obvious countries under pressure,”  Bob Parker , a senior adviser
at Credit Suisse Asset Management in London, told “On the Move
With  Francine Lacqua ” on Bloomberg Television.  Portuguese bonds fell after the southern European nation
sold 500 million euros of 91-day bills at a yield of 3.403
percent, more than the 1.818 percent at an auction in November.
The yield on Portugal’s 10-year note rose for an eighth day,
climbing four basis points to 6.27 percent.  The Swiss franc strengthened as much as 0.6 percent to a
record 1.2759 per euro before paring gains to trade up 0.3
percent up at 1.2804, while the euro weakened 1.1 percent to
$1.3225.  South Korea’s won lost 1.3 percent to 1,154.8 per dollar,
the biggest drop in a week, on concern authorities will step up
measures to curb capital inflows after the nation’s National
Assembly moved closer to revising a tax on foreign investor’s
bond holdings.  Ruble, Yuan Trade  The ruble closed at 46.3405 per 10 Chinese yuan in the
currencies’ first day of trading on Moscow’s Micex exchange,
after opening at 46.35. Policy makers in China and Russia are
promoting greater use of their currencies in regional trade as
they seek to reduce reliance on the dollar.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  slid 0.9 percent, retreating
from a 2 1/2-year high. PetroChina Co., China’s largest oil
company, fell 3.6 percent in Hong Kong. Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd., the world’s No. 1 bank by market value, sank
1.9 percent on concern China will act further to slow inflation.
Billabong International Ltd. dropped 8.9 percent in Sydney after
the surfwear maker lowered its profit forecast.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  dropped 1 percent, the
first decline this week. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
of Hong Kong-traded shares sank 2.2 percent, the most in three
weeks, after the Chinese central bank said consumers are more
concerned about inflation than at any time in the past decade,
boosting speculation policy makers will raise interest rates.  Oil for January delivery rose 0.4 percent to $88.62 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after a U.S.
government report showed stockpiles plunged by the most since
2002.  Gold fell the most in a week on speculation that the dollar
will extend a rally, eroding demand for the precious metal as an
alternative asset. Gold for February delivery lost 1 percent to
$1,390.50 an ounce. Copper dropped 1.8 percent to close at
$4.1325 a pound.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael P. Regan  in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net 
 Rita Nazareth  in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 