-- Euro Advances Before EU Leaders Meet to Tackle Crisis-Fighting Mechanism
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-12-16T12:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/dollar-trades-near-three-month-high-versus-yen-before-u-s-housing-data.html
The euro strengthened before
European Union leaders met to discuss how to contain the debt
contagion that has threatened the single currency.  The 16-nation euro appreciated against 12 of the world’s 16
most traded currencies monitored by Bloomberg. EU leaders start
a two-day summit in Brussels today with the focus on a permanent
crisis-fighting system. The Swiss franc declined after the
central bank kept interest rates on hold. The New Zealand dollar
touched a 10-year low against its Australian counterpart.  “It could be euro positive if they put together something
concrete that at least in the short term eases market concerns
on how far the peripheral debt issues will spread,” said  Adam Cole , head of global currency strategy at RBC Capital Markets in
London.  The euro gained 0.2 percent to $1.3242 as of 6:51 a.m. in
New York, snapping two days of declines. The common currency was
little changed against the yen at 111.23. The dollar slipped 0.2
percent to 84.05 yen.  EU leaders are close to agreeing on an amendment to the
bloc’s Lisbon Treaty foreseeing a “mechanism to safeguard the
stability of the euro area as a whole” with financial aid for
distressed governments “subject to strict conditionality,”
officials told reporters yesterday. Divisions between leaders
over action to stifle the debt crisis have helped push the euro
2.1 percent lower in the past month against the currencies of 10
developed nations tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes.  Spanish ‘Vulnerability’  Spain’s Treasury today sold 2.4 billion euros ($3.2
billion) of bonds, less than its maximum target.  Borrowing costs 
surged after Moody’s Investors Service said it may downgrade the
country’s credit rating.  Moody’s yesterday said Spain’s credit rating may be cut
from Aa1, citing “vulnerability to funding stress.” Spain has
to raise 170 billion euros next year, while refinancing needs
for its regions total 30 billion euros and for banks around 90
billion euros, Moody’s estimated. A bailout isn’t “likely,” it
said.  The Swiss franc weakened after the nation’s central bank
held the three-month Libor target rate at 0.25 percent, in line
with the estimates of all 19 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The franc’s strength against the euro, which hit a
record high yesterday, has threatened the country’s export-led
recovery.  The franc was 0.4 percent weaker against the common
currency at 1.2844, after strengthening yesterday to a euro-era
record of 1.2759. It declined 0.2 percent versus the dollar to
97 centimes.  U.S. Housing Starts  The dollar traded near a three-month high against the yen
before data that economists said will show U.S. housing starts
and building permits rose last month.  U.S. housing starts rose to a 550,000 annual rate in
November from 519,000 in October, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the
Commerce Department releases the data today. Building permits, a
sign of future activity, gained 1.5 percent to a 560,000 rate
last month, another Bloomberg survey showed before today’s data.  Treasury 10-year yields yesterday increased to as high as
3.56 percent, the most since May, on speculation President
 Barack Obama ’s agreement to extend tax cuts will pass in
Congress, supporting growth and increasing the budget deficit.
The yields dropped four basis points today to 3.48 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar dropped for a seventh day against
Australia’s, the longest losing streak in 18 months, after
industry reports showed the confidence of consumers and
businesses in the smaller nation waned.  Household Sentiment  New Zealand’s household sentiment index fell to 108.3 in
the fourth quarter, the lowest since the second quarter of 2009,
Westpac and McDermott Miller Ltd. said in a report today. A net
34.5 percent of companies expect sales and profits to rise over
the next 12 months, down from 35.3 percent in November,
according to a survey by ANZ National Bank Ltd.  The so-called kiwi touched a 10-year low against the Aussie
after the Reserve Bank of Australia said in its quarterly
bulletin that utility prices are likely to keep rising,
underscoring forecasts that inflation will quicken.  New Zealand’s dollar fell 0.3 percent to NZ$1.3377 versus
Australia’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  