-- Donny & Marie Offer ‘Puppy Love’ to Besotted Broadway Tourists
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/donny-marie-offer-puppy-love-to-besotted-broadway-tourists.html
Goofy charm and self-effacing humor
trump subtlety in Broadway’s newest song-and-dance revue,
“ Donny & Marie: A Broadway Christmas .”  One-time childhood television and recording stars now in
their early 50s, siblings  Donny  and  Marie Osmond  are on leave
from their long-running engagement at the  Flamingo Las Vegas .  At the Marquis Theatre in Times Square, they own the
touristy audience as soon as they appear onstage in glittery
black outfits. The jokes are square, comic timing sure-footed.  A woman in the audience shouts, “I love you, Don--”  “I love you too, babe,” Donny says, cutting her off.  “I’m going through menopause,” Marie says later. “Men
are on pause.”  She loudly chugs from a water bottle: “You thought Mormons
couldn’t drink,” she says.  Although the nine-piece band is too loud, the musical
selections go down easy. There are Christmas songs, Osmond past
hits (“Puppy Love,” “A Little Bit Country, a Little Bit Rock
’n Roll”), a silly Broadway medley and oldies that lend
themselves to big numbers, such as “Dance to the Music,” and
“Dancing in the Streets.”  Then and Now  Three high-definition screens above the performers --
including a company of 10 dancers -- project the action and
clips of Donny and Marie as kids. They perform together and
solo, each telling well-worn stories as if for the first time.  In a rare topical moment, Donny needles the neighboring $65
million “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark,” now in previews. He’s
shown backstage in a Spidey costume.  “I paid so much for it,” he says.  The two look good, if not entirely all-natural. Something’s
going on with Marie’s massive mane, as she herself suggests in a
backstage video when she asks someone to hand over her hair.  At nearly two hours, the show for a non-diehard is long.
The Flamingo has it right in limiting its version to 90 minutes.
The quips about the siblings’ rivalry on ABC’s “Dancing with
the Stars” wear thin. And I struggled to discern a point of
view, besides celebrating the pair and their staying power.  But you have to hand it to them, literally, as they race up
and down the aisles offering high-fives to theatergoers. They
know what their fans want -- Donny and Marie -- and they
dispense that generously.  Through Jan. 2 at the Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway.
Information:  http://donnyandmarieonbroadway.com/  Rating: *  ( Philip Boroff  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 