-- Dubai Aerospace Said to Weigh More Airbus, Boeing Cancelations
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-12-15T12:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/dubai-aerospace-said-to-weigh-more-airbus-boeing-cancelations-next-year.html
Dubai Aerospace Enterprise Ltd., the
state-owned aviation services and leasing company, may cancel
more aircraft orders with Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co.  next year as
the emirate battles the impact of the global credit crisis, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  DAE plans to make adjustments to its order book with the
manufacturers and the number of cancelations may be similar to
those made this year, said one of the people, who asked not to
be identified because the discussions are private.  The company, set up in 2006 with the aim of becoming one of
the world’s biggest airplane lessors, in July dropped orders for
seven  Airbus  wide-body planes and 18 narrow-body jets, according
to figures released by Airbus. A contract for 15 787 Dreamliners
was removed Aug. 5 from Boeing’s online backlog listing.  DAE, which has 45 aircraft on its books according to its
 website , entered the leasing market during what was the peak of
an air-travel boom, and has since been hit by a slump in demand.  The Dubai-based company placed an order in 2007 for 70
Airbus A320 single-aisle planes and 30 A350 jets valued at about
$13 billion at list prices. DAE also ordered 70 Boeing 737s, 15
787s, 10 777-300ERs and five 747-8 freighters that year, valued
at $13.7 billion. As of last month, DAE has 81 Boeing planes on
order, according to data supplied by the manufacturer today.  ‘Sit Up’  Bob Johnson, then chief executive officer, said at the time
that the orders had made DAE into an aircraft-leasing and
finance provider that would “make the world sit up and take
note.”  “We never comment on contracts with our customers,” said
 Stefan Schaffrath , a spokesman for Airbus in Toulouse, France. A
spokesman for Chicago-based  Boeing  said the company doesn’t
comment on its discussions with customers. A DAE spokesman
didn’t return phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  DAE is close to selling a minority stake in aviation-
services company StandardAero as it seeks to raise funds, one of
the people said. DAE is in talks with two interested bidders
over a stake that’s less than 50 percent, with a view to selling
the remainder in four to five years, the person said.  Deutsche Bank AG is advising on the sale, the person said.
A Deutsche Bank spokesman said the bank doesn’t comment on
market speculation.  DAE bought U.S.-based aircraft-maintenance groups Standard
Aero and Landmark in July 2007 for $1.9 billion and later merged
the two companies.  DAE was founded by the Dubai government in 2006 with a $15
billion capital base. The company originally had six divisions -
- DAE Capital, DAE Services, DAE Manufacturing, DAE Airports,
DAE Engineering and DAE University. It has since shut all units
except for leasing division DAE Capital and DAE Manufacturing.  DAE shareholders include Istithmar World, a subsidiary of
Dubai World, the government-owned company that is seeking to
restructure $24.9 billion of debt, and Dubai International
Capital, which has also has asked lenders for an extension on
some debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   Eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  