-- Dynegy Accepts Icahn’s $665 Million Buyout Offer
-- B y   J e s s i c a   R e s n i c k - A u l t   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2010-12-15T21:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/dynegy-says-it-agreed-to-be-acquired-by-icahn-enterprises-for-665-million.html
Dynegy Inc. , the third-largest U.S.
independent power producer, agreed to be acquired for $665
million by  Icahn Enterprises LP  after shareholders rejected a
lower bid from  Blackstone Group LP .  Icahn Enterprises’ offer of $5.50 a share is 10 percent
higher than Blackstone’s November bid of $5 a share. The
agreement allows Dynegy to pursue a better offer until Jan. 24.
Icahn has agreed not to oppose another buyer if Dynegy receives
a higher bid.  Dynegy rose 18 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $5.63 at 4:25 p.m.
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  Ichan Enterprises’ offer “sets the bar” for Dynegy’s
auction process, and the stock “has value above and beyond
$5.50”,  Andrew Smith , a utility analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said today in a research note to investors.  Carl Icahn  and hedge fund Seneca Capital, Dynegy’s largest
shareholders, opposed Blackstone’s offer to acquire the Houston-
based company. A majority of Dynegy’s shareholders voted to
reject the deal last month.  Seneca has said it values Dynegy at $6.50 a share. Lisa
Wolford, who represents Seneca at Robinson Lerer & Montgomery,
had no immediate comment. Dynegy did not say in a statement
today whether Seneca supports the Icahn offer.  Icahn’s offer, if approved, would mean Icahn is paying two
times Dynegy’s revenue and 8.62 times Dynegy’s trailing 12-month
earnings before tax and other items, or ebitda, according to
Bloomberg data. That compares to Blackstone’s bid that was 9.26
times ebitda and 2.11 times revenue.  Mounting Debt  Icahn’s offer is the median price of sector transactions
over the past 10 years, based on ebitda and revenue multiples,
according to Bloomberg data.  Dynegy has tried to sell itself for more than two years as
it has contended with mounting debt. It currently has about
$3.95 billion of outstanding debt. The company has reported
 losses  for nine of the last 11 quarters.  After receiving Blackstone’s original offer of $4.50 on
Aug. 13, Dynegy contacted 42 parties without receiving a higher
bid, according to statements from the company. When Icahn and
Seneca opposed the transaction with Blackstone, the private-
equity firm raised its bid to $5.  Dynegy Chief Executive Officer  Bruce A. Williamson  called
the agreement, “a very positive outcome for all Dynegy
stockholders” in the statement.  Shareholder Approval Seen  Icahn’s bid also will need shareholder approval. If he’s
successful, the purchase will be Icahn’s largest in 10 years
including debt, according to Bloomberg data.  “He’s got a good shot at clearing this thing,” said
 Charles Fishman , a St. Louis-based analyst for Pritchard Capital
Partners LLC.  Because 37 percent of the shareholders voted for the $5
Blackstone offer, and Icahn himself owns almost 10 percent, he’s
likely to secure the approval needed for the acquisition to go
through, Fishman said.  During debate over the Blackstone bid, Seneca began
lobbying to obtain two  Dynegy  board seats for its own proposed
candidates.  Seneca is still trying to obtain the board seats, and the
placement of those two members could potentially disrupt Icahn’s
tender offer, according to the listing of potential risks in
today’s statement.  David Byford, a Dynegy spokesman, had no comment on
Seneca’s position on Icahn’s offer.  Cost Cuts  Contracts protecting against the company’s default for five
years increased 1.9 percentage points to 24.3 percent upfront,
according to data provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5 percent
a year, meaning it would cost $2.43 million initially and
$500,000 annually to protect $10 million of Dynegy’s debt.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Before Icahn’s bid,  Dynegy  said it might consider asset
sales, cost-cutting, and debt restructuring to remain a
standalone company.  The company may fetch a higher value if broken apart, said
Fishman, who has a $7 price target and a buy rating on Dynegy.  “Is the company worth more? Probably,” he said.  Breakup Likely?  A private company such as Icahn Enterprises may have
flexibility that Dynegy’s board lacks, enabling it to parcel out
segments of Dynegy for sale, Fishman said.  “The maximum value you would get for this company would be
in breaking it apart. That would be what Carl Icahn, assuming
he’s successful, is likely to do.”  Sale of the company at more than $4.50 a share within 18
months of Blackstone’s November offer will trigger a $16.3
million payment to Blackstone, according to its agreement with
Dynegy.  Dynegy owns plants in seven U.S. states with the capacity
to power about 9.8 million average U.S. homes.  Independent power producers sell power into wholesale
markets, subjecting the companies to price fluctuations.
Regulated utilities are generally insulated from market
volatility. NRG Energy Inc. and  Calpine Corp . are the two
largest U.S. independent power producers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jessica Resnick-Ault  in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Susan Warren  at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 