-- Health Care's Future Is `Up for Grabs' as U.S. Supreme Court Clash Looms
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-12-15T16:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/health-care-s-future-is-up-for-grabs-as-u-s-supreme-court-clash-looms.html
The focus of the debate over
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul is already turning
toward the  U.S. Supreme Court , even though it may be years
before the justices resolve the law’s constitutionality.  Advocates on both sides say the Supreme Court almost
certainly will be the final word on the measure, relegating a
federal judge’s ruling against the law this week to a footnote.
The judge said a provision requiring people to buy insurance or
pay a penalty was unconstitutional.  Far less clear is how the law will fare before a high court
that has five Republican appointees and four Democrats. No
precedent directly controls the case’s outcome, and the
justices’ opinions in other contexts only hint at how they would
view the so-called individual mandate. The justice most often in
the court’s middle,  Anthony Kennedy , has signed opinions
pointing in both directions.  “The ultimate outcome of this case is really up for
grabs,” said  Jonathan Adler , a professor who runs the Center
for Business Law and Regulation at Case Western Reserve
University’s law school in Cleveland and who has argued the law
is unconstitutional. “We don’t have much precedent that speaks
directly to this question, and several of the justices have no
real track record on this type of issue.”  The Justice Department said yesterday it will appeal U.S.
District Judge  Henry Hudson ’s ruling to a Richmond, Virginia-
based federal appeals court. Virginia Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli , whose challenge to the law led to Hudson’s ruling,
had urged the Obama administration to appeal directly to the
Supreme Court to expedite the case.  Congressional Power  Hudson, appointed by Republican President  George W. Bush ,
said the individual mandate exceeded Congress’s powers,
rejecting the Justice Department’s contention that Congress
acted within its authority to regulate interstate commerce and
levy taxes. Two other federal judges have upheld the provision,
and a third will hear arguments this week on a suit by 20 other
states. Hudson left the rest of the health-care law intact.  At the Supreme Court, opponents will have to overcome a
high historical hurdle: The court hasn’t invalidated a federal
program of comparable size since striking down much of President
 Franklin Roosevelt’s  New Deal in the 1930s. That fact alone
gives backers of the measure reason for hope.  “I just can’t see this court going back and once again
having five justices regulating what can be done with the
national economy,” said  Walter Dellinger , who served as
President  Bill Clinton ’s top Supreme Court attorney and is now a
Washington lawyer with O’Melveny & Myers LLP.  Breaking New Ground  Critics say the health plan is unlike anything the Supreme
Court has ever approved because it would require people to take
action: either buy health insurance or pay a fine. Hudson said
no Supreme Court or appeals court ruling authorizes Congress to
“compel an individual to involuntarily enter the stream of
commerce” by buying something.  The Supreme Court’s broadest reading of the commerce clause
may have come in 1942, when it let Congress regulate wheat grown
by a farmer for home consumption. The court said that, while the
farmer’s impact on the interstate market might be trivial, “his
contribution, taken together with that of many others similarly
situated, is far from trivial.”  More recent cases have imposed limits. The court in 1995
voided a federal law aimed at restricting guns near schools,
then followed up in 2000 by overturning a law that let female
victims of violence sue their assailants.  Shifting Direction  In both cases, a 5-4 majority faulted Congress for
attempting to regulate what the court said was essentially non-
economic activity -- carrying a firearm in one case and engaging
in gender-motivated violence in the other.  The court shifted course in 2005, voting 6-3 to allow
prosecutions under federal drug laws for marijuana that is grown
and used locally for medicinal purposes. The court said
Congress, in regulating a national market, can also set rules
for related local transactions. The majority pointed to a
constitutional provision letting Congress enact laws “necessary
and proper” for carrying out its other powers.  Kennedy was in the majority in all three of those cases,
revealing a nuanced view toward congressional power. He was also
in the majority this year in a case that interpreted the
“necessary and proper” clause in a different context. The 7-2
ruling upheld a federal law allowing civil commitment of
“sexually dangerous people” whose federal prison terms
expired.  Kennedy wrote separately in the civil commitment case to
say congressional power “must be controlled by some limitations
test.”  Federalism Rulings  “He’s uneasy with striking down federal legislation on
federalism grounds,” Adler said. “Then again, we have not seen
anything as aggressive as this, and he also is particularly
sensitive to infringements upon individual liberties.”  Four other members of the court -- Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices  Samuel Alito ,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan  -- have never directly considered a challenge to
Congress’s commerce clause powers.  Roberts and Alito, both Republican appointees, have hinted
they would limit that authority. In a 2006 case they voted to
narrow the Clean Water Act, saying it applies only to wetlands
with a close connection to a major waterway. Both joined an
opinion by Justice  Antonin Scalia , who said broader application
would raise constitutional questions.  Kagan and Sotomayor, both Obama appointees, have even less
of a record. “We don’t have anything to go on other than our
general assumption of what liberal justices would do in such a
case,” Adler said.  Administration Confidence  The Obama administration says it’s confident the  measure 
will be upheld. The administration argues that the individual
mandate is essential to the law’s goal of increasing  health-care 
availability and affordability.  The government says that, without such a rule, people could
forgo buying insurance until they became sick, at which point
the new law would require insurers to provide coverage. That
would drive up costs and eventually drive insurers out of
business, the administration says.  “All of us need health care eventually,” Attorney General
 Eric Holder  and Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said in a Washington Post op-ed piece yesterday. “Do
we pay in advance, by getting insurance, or do we try to pay
later, when we need medical care?”  Cuccinelli says that approach has no bounds.  “If the government can order you to buy health insurance,
they can order you to buy a car, to buy asparagus,” the
Republican said. “The power is expandable almost without limit
if this is allowable and constitutional.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 