-- Health-Care Judge Gets Paid Political Dividends: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-12-15T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/health-care-judge-gets-paid-political-dividends-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
How lovely it would be to believe
that political ideology never influences federal judges’
rulings. Well, at least we can be sure that they step off any
case in which they have a financial interest, can’t we?  Not necessarily.  This week, a deeply Republican federal jurist, U.S.
District Court Judge Henry Hudson, found a key element of the
health-care law unconstitutional.  The fact that two other federal judges, both appointed
by Democratic presidents, found the same provision perfectly
constitutional means that so far judges are dividing along
party lines like elected officials do.  Perhaps Hudson views cases through a legal perspective
different from that of the other two (and from most
constitutional scholars). Like a good conservative, he sees
constitutional red lights where other judges see green. Fine.  Hudson acknowledges his partisan history, and there’s
nothing unusual in political work leading to the federal
bench.  George W. Bush  nominated him in 2002.  But he has something more than the usual political
connections.  For the past 13 years, he has held an investment in a
Republican political consulting firm, which pays him
dividends every year.  Campaign Solutions Inc.  gave him $5,000 to $15,000 in
2009, as it had in 2008, according to his latest financial-
disclosure  reports , which only specify ranges for the amounts.
Those were especially good years for advisers to Republicans.
In all, over the past seven years since he has been reporting,
Hudson’s dividends from the firm were $12,000 to $38,000.  ‘Powerhouse’ Firm  He puts the value of his investment at $15,000 to
$50,000. The Huffington Post, which  reported  the link July 30,
described Campaign Solutions as “a powerhouse Republican
online communications firm.”  Hudson isn’t commenting on his investment in the context
of the health-care case, according to Steven Popps, a law
clerk to the judge.  But according to a Washington Post story published Dec.
7, Hudson said in an  interview  that he still owns shares in
the firm, explaining that he and his wife invested in it
before he joined the federal bench in 2002. They were invited
to do so by a friend and neighbor, Republican fundraiser
Becki Donatelli, who founded the firm in 1997.  (She also  advises  the political action committee of
Sarah “death panels” Palin.)  ‘Kind of Silly’  Hudson told the Post he has had nothing to do with the
company since becoming a judge. Well, nothing other than
referring some nonprofits to it as potential clients.  “This is all getting to be kind of silly,” Donatelli
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Yes, the Hudsons invested 13 years ago, before he was a
judge. He’s a “passive investor” with no involvement in the
firm, she said, noting he has “fully disclosed” his
investment.  “His ownership in the company is 1 percent,” Donatelli
said. She declined to comment any further.  The explanation may lessen the flagrancy of Hudson’s
conflict but it doesn’t eliminate the problem.  First, the judiciary’s  Code of Conduct , which all
federal judges are supposed to follow, says: “A judge should
refrain from political activity.”  And yet, Hudson is part-owner of a political firm. He
has invested in Republican politics and is making money from
it, money from clients such as the  Republican National
Committee  and the  National Republican Congressional Committee .  Payments by Plaintiff  True, neither of them is directly involved in the case
that Hudson’s judging. But if you think the legal effort to
invalidate the national health-care law isn’t one prong of a
fierce Republican effort to get rid of the law and tarnish
Democrats, you need to pick up a newspaper every now and then.  Besides, Republican Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli II, a plaintiff in the case, paid Campaign
Solutions $9,000 this year and $9,000 last year to advise him,
the Post reported.  When he learned of Hudson’s investment, Cuccinelli
cancelled his contract with the firm. Not that there was
anything wrong with it, you understand.  To recap, the plaintiff in the case and the political
party trying mightily to undo the health-care law have paid
thousands of dollars to a political firm that annually pays
thousands of dollars to a judge ruling on the
constitutionality of that law.  Gray Areas  I’m not saying this is some sort of payoff. Nor am I
saying Hudson would have ruled differently if he didn’t have
this investment.  But whatever gray area may exist on the question of when
judges should recuse themselves, this isn’t one of them.  Judges are not supposed to decide cases in which they
have a financial interest, “however small,” according to
federal  law . A judge “shall” disqualify himself from a case
if he or his spouse “has a financial interest in the subject
matter in controversy or in a party to the proceeding,” the
statute says.  Some judges sell investments so they can hear more cases.
Why hasn’t Hudson?  His health-care ruling is dead wrong legally as well as
a policy matter, in my view. But more important is the idea
that issues be judged by people without a stake in the
outcome. I would have said so sooner had I known of Hudson’s
investment.  For similar reasons, I’ve argued that liberal judge
Stephen Reinhardt should have recused himself from the gay-
marriage case in  California  because his wife played at least
a tangential role in it.  Hudson told the Post that criticism like that stemming
from his investment in Campaign Solutions simply “rolls
off” his back.  It shouldn’t.    Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  