-- EBay Buys Critical Path, Doubling Size of Mobile Team
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-12-15T21:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/ebay-buys-application-maker-critical-path-doubling-size-of-mobile-team.html
EBay Inc.  acquired Critical Path
Software Inc., a developer of smartphone applications, to
accelerate its lead in mobile commerce.  The acquisition doubles the size of EBay’s mobile team,
which has dozens of engineers,  Steve Yankovich , a vice president
at the company, said today. Terms weren’t disclosed for the
deal, which EBay called a “talent acquisition.”  EBay, the largest e-commerce marketplace, is trying to
capitalize on rising demand from consumers shopping on phones,
an area where BGC Partners LP says the company has an early
lead. Chief Executive Officer  John Donahoe , halfway through a
three-year turnaround, also is seeking ways to use EBay’s $5.4
billion in cash and marketable securities to spur growth. The
company bought RedLaser, a barcode scanner app, in June.  “Our goal is to take our leadership position in mobile
commerce and keep going, and keep everyone else in the tail
lights,” Yankovich said in an interview.  On Apple Inc.’s recommendation, EBay started working with
 Critical Path  while developing an app for the iPhone that
debuted in July 2008. Since then, Portland, Oregon-based
Critical Path has helped EBay with apps for its StubHub and
classifieds units.  EBay, based in San Jose, California, is on pace to do about
$2 billion in gross  sales  this year through its mobile apps,
Donahoe said last month.  Critical Path’s team of engineers will stay in Portland,
said Steve Romero, the company’s founder.  “If we were going to get behind anyone, getting behind the
dominant mobile e-commerce player was the way to go,” Romero
said.  EBay fell 56 cents to $30.19 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The stock has gained 28 percent
this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  