-- ECB Risks Posting 2010 Loss on Government Bond Purchases, Jeffries Says
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-12-15T16:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/ecb-risks-posting-2010-loss-on-government-bond-purchases-jeffries-says.html
The European Central Bank risks
posting a loss for this year as its emergency bond purchases
surpass its level of reserves, Jeffries International Ltd. said.  While most of the government bonds purchased this year will
“probably reside” on the balance sheets of national central
banks in the euro area, a “back-of-the-envelope calculation”
suggests the ECB’s holdings could exceed reserves by Dec. 31,
 David Owen , chief European economist at Jefferies in London,
said in a report today.  The Frankfurt-based central bank has bought 72 billion
euros of bonds so far, and stepped up purchases last week even
as policy makers increased pressure on governments to do more to
end the debt crisis. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on
Dec. 2 that the program, which it started in May in response to
the Greek sovereign debt crisis, is “ongoing.”  The ECB may ask members for a capital increase to
safeguard against any losses stemming from its purchases of
bonds from strained governments such as  Portugal  and  Ireland ,
according to a euro-area central bank official with knowledge of
the talks. Owen said it would “hardly be surprising if the ECB
increased the size of its capital base” to protect itself.  Profit & Loss  The Jeffries’ economist estimates the ECB will have about 5
billion euros ($6.7 billion) of bonds on its balance sheet this
year, which compares with capital of 4.1 billion euros at the
end of 2009. The central bank posted a profit of 2.3 billion
euros in 2009 and 1.3 billion euros in 2008. Given this profit,
“it would not take much to push it into a loss, which would
have to be covered by reserves,” Owen said.  “Being marked to market and going through the profit and
loss raises the risk of the ECB potentially disclosing a small
loss,” he said. “Not that this would really be a problem, but
in the current environment, it would probably not help market
sentiment.”  ECB Governing Council member  Ewald Nowotny  raised the issue
of capital increases for national central banks last week.  “We are clearly seeing that risks are increasing in the
system for European central banks because we are having to take
on a whole range of extra risks,” Nowotny, who is also governor
of Austria’s central bank, said in Vienna on Dec. 10. “So in
the whole European system we’ll have to get a better capital
base for central banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  