-- Elan Will Pay $203 Million to Settle Illegal Marketing Probe of Zonegran
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-12-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/elan-agrees-to-pay-203-million-to-settle-u-s-probe-of-zonegran-marketing.html
Elan Corp. will pay $203 million and
a U.S. unit of the Irish drugmaker will plead guilty to a
misdemeanor charge to resolve an investigation of its marketing
of the epilepsy medicine Zonegran.  Elan  will pay $102.9 million to resolve civil claims and
$100 million in criminal fines and forfeitures, according to the
U.S. Justice Department. Japanese drugmaker  Eisai Inc. , which
bought the drug from Elan in 2004 for $128.5 million, also will
pay $11 million to settle civil claims.  The Elan Pharmaceuticals unit will plead guilty in federal
court in Boston to a charge of misbranding Zonegran, which was
approved by U.S. regulators for treatment of epileptic seizures
in adults over age 16, the Justice Department said yesterday in
a statement. Dublin-based  Elan  promoted Zonegran for uses
including mood stabilization, bipolar disorder, migraine
headaches, weight loss and seizures in children.  “Elan’s off-label marketing efforts targeted non-epilepsy
prescribers and the company paid illegal kickbacks to physicians
in an effort to persuade them to prescribe Zonegran for these
off-label uses,” according to the statement.  Elan  entered into a corporate-integrity agreement with the
inspector general of the Health and Human Services Department.
It also settled a whistleblower lawsuit filed in 2004 under the
False Claims Act by Lee Chartock, a Massachusetts physician. The
law allows private citizens to sue on behalf of the government
and share in any recovery.  ‘Highest’ Standards  “We are pleased to have reached this agreement, which
concludes a longstanding legal matter on a product Elan divested
over six years ago,” Elan General Counsel John B. Moriarty Jr.
said in a statement. “Elan is committed to adhering to the
highest ethical and legal standards.”  The federal share of the civil settlement is $59.5 million.
State Medicaid programs will split $43.4 million. Chartock’s
share of the federal recovery is more than $11 million,
according to the Justice Department.  Zonegran, first sold in May 2000, was the last of seven
anti-epilepsy drugs to enter the market, according to the
misdemeanor criminal charge against Elan Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
or EPI. In its first year, Zonegran had only 1 percent of the
market, according to prosecutors.  In 2002, EPI “came under significant financial pressure”
because of an investigation of its financial practices by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that caused shares to
drop to $2 from $65 in six months, according to the criminal
charge. In evaluating its options, EPI “decided to retain
Zonegran because of its large potential for growth, particularly
in unapproved areas,” prosecutors said.  Sales Staff Trained  EPI then trained its sales staff to promote Zonegran for
off-label uses, including for children, pain, psychiatric
disorders, migraines and movement disorders, prosecutors said.
Letters sent to pediatricians described how to administer
Zonegran to a child by putting a capsule’s contents into
applesauce, according to the document, which EPI will admit to
in its guilty plea.  Doctors with the potential to write many prescriptions were
invited on expense-paid trips to Bermuda, Key Largo, Florida,
Banff in Alberta and Tucson, Arizona, to hear speeches on off-
label uses, according to the charge. Sales “increased
dramatically,” rising 80 percent from August 2001 to August
2002, while 2003 revenue increased 87 percent over the previous
year, prosecutors said.  Several other drugmakers have reached settlements under the
False Claims Act with the U.S. for off-label marketing of anti-
epilepsy drugs.  “We can expect these kinds of results to continue as long
as the industry turns a blind eye to off-label marketing by
their sales forces,” Chartock’s  attorneys , Robert M. Thomas Jr.
and Suzanne E. Durrell, said in a statement.  The case is United States ex rel. Lee Chartock v. Elan
Corp., 04-cv-11594, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 