-- Ellison Team to Consider San Francisco America's Cup Bid After City Vote
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2010-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/ellison-team-to-consider-san-francisco-america-s-cup-bid-after-city-vote.html
Larry Ellison ’s sailing team said it
would consider a San Francisco plan to host the America’s Cup in
2013 after the city offered long-term rights to waterfront
property in exchange for staging the competition.  The plan passed yesterday by the San Francisco Board of
Supervisors and signed by Mayor  Gavin Newsom  requires Ellison’s
BMW/Oracle Racing team to invest as much as $80 million in piers
and port land to get them ready for the regatta. That’s about
half the cost of an earlier proposal deemed too disruptive by
the city.  The proposed deal also would require Ellison, chief
executive officer of  Oracle Corp. , and his group to raise $270
million in private funds to manage and run the event.  The team “will now closely review the agreement changes
that went before the board,” Stephanie Martin, spokeswoman for
the America’s Cup, wrote in an e-mail after the board’s vote.  BMW/Oracle would receive rent credits for future leases on
property near the Giants baseball stadium and  Google Inc. ’s
offices in San Francisco’s South of Market district. The team
defeated the Alinghi syndicate in February, and gets to choose
the site of the next race under rules dating back to 1887.  “We feel that we have an extraordinary bid that will give
us the ability to secure this Cup,” Newsom said at a press
conference following the supervisors’ 11-0 vote.  Ellison’s team had set a Dec. 17 deadline for San Francisco
to submit its final bid. A competing offer may come from the
Italian government, according to Kyri McClellan, the project
manager for San Francisco. The host city for the 34th America’s
Cup will be chosen by Dec. 31, according to the team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  