-- England Favored to End Its WACA Woes With Cricket's Ashes Trophy at Stake
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-15T16:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/england-favored-to-end-its-waca-woes-with-cricket-s-ashes-trophy-at-stake.html
For England to retain the Ashes with
two matches to spare, the visitors have to win at a venue where
they’ve had little success in cricket Tests with Australia.  The touring team lead the best-of-five contest 1-0 after
last week’s innings and 71-run triumph in Adelaide, and a
victory at Perth’s WACA Ground would give it an unbeatable lead.
As holder, England would keep the trophy by tying the series.  While  Andrew Strauss ’s England squad is unbeaten in two
Tests and four tour games since its Oct. 30 arrival, previous
teams have failed to get an Ashes victory in the Western
Australia state capital on 10 of 11 occasions. The third Test is
scheduled to start at 10.30 a.m. local time today.  “Australia’s record here is very good, so that suggests
they’re better at adapting to these conditions than other
teams,” Strauss said in a news conference. “It’s a great
opportunity for us to show we’re a better side than we used to
be.”  England’s  only win  over Australia at the WACA, where elite
five-day Tests were first staged in 1970, was 32 years ago
against a home team weakened by defections to  Kerry Packer ’s
breakaway World Series Cricket.  Since drawing at the WACA in 1986 on its way to its last
Ashes series triumph on Australian soil, England has lost five
straight Tests in Perth and failed to score 300 runs nine times
out of 10. English bowlers also never managed to bowl Australia
out twice in that span.  Still, England enters the match as the bookmakers’ favorite
after dominating since day three of the opening match in
Brisbane. England’s batsmen amassed 1,137 runs for the loss of
six wickets in their past two innings.  ‘Friendless’  U.K. bookmaker  William Hill Plc  said 13 percent of bets
it’s taken on the match had been placed on  Ricky Ponting ’s team
to win and keep alive its chances of regaining the trophy.
England is the 11-8 favorite ahead of 15-8 chance Australia.
That means a successful $8 bet on the touring side will bring in
$11 and the original stake.  “Australia have never been so friendless,” William Hill
spokesman  Rupert Adams  said in a statement. “Thirteen percent
is a figure that you would expect to see for a Test match minnow
like Bangladesh.”  Australia takes a five-Test winless streak into the game,
its worst run since going six matches without a victory in 1988.  Ponting wrote in his newspaper column yesterday that his
players may have been “ overburdened ” with talk about specific
tactics in the first two matches.  “When you want to win games of cricket, you need to play
with freedom and play on instinct more than anything else,”
Ponting wrote in the Australian. “The more you think about
things the harder it becomes to execute your skills.”  Bollinger to Beer  Australia responded to the defeat in Adelaide -- its
biggest home loss in 26 years -- by dropping Xavier Doherty,
 Marcus North  and Doug Bollinger and calling up all-rounder Steve
Smith and spin bowler Michael Beer.  Phillip Hughes  will replace
the injured  Simon Katich  atop the batting order.  Mitchell Johnson , the International Cricket Council’s
Player of the Year in 2009, may be recalled after being left out
for the first time in 39 Tests. Johnson has 21 wickets in three
Tests at the WACA, including a career-best match haul of 11-159
against South Africa two years ago.  Ponting told reporters that a decision on the final 11 will
be made today following an assessment of the pitch conditions.  Of the Australian newcomers, only Hughes has experienced
Test cricket’s oldest international rivalry. He scored 57 in the
first two Tests of the 2009 series before getting dropped.  Baby Break  England will make at least one change after  Stuart Broad 
was ruled out with a torn stomach muscle, meaning James Anderson
will have a different new-ball partner.  Chris Tremlett ,  Tim Bresnan  and Ajmal Shahzad are the backup fast bowlers.  Anderson, who claimed six wickets in Adelaide, took
advantage of an eight-day gap to return home to attend the birth
of his second child. He said jetlag shouldn’t be a problem and
that he won’t be distracted from leading the bowling attack.  “I tried to stay on Australian time,” Anderson told
reporters. “I feel fresh and probably happy for the rest from
bowling after a tough first two Tests.”  England allowed Australia back into last year’s series
before clinching a 2-1 victory in the final match. Strauss said
the squad is keen to secure the Ashes as soon as possible this
time.  “There have been times when we’ve been on top, had a good
performance and haven’t backed it up,” he said. “It counts for
nothing if we give it away here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  