-- Merkel Channeling Antony Comes to Praise Euro While Burying Its Investors
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-12-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/merkel-channeling-antony-comes-to-praise-euro-while-burying-its-investors.html
Every time German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  talks about how investors will have to swallow losses in
future debt crises, financial markets shudder.  Irish 10-year bond yields climbed to a record on Nov. 2
after Merkel said the European Union was drafting plans to force
investors to cover losses in a repeat of the sovereign debt
slump that started earlier this year in Greece. Her comment in a
Nov. 23 speech that the euro’s condition is “exceptionally
serious” helped drive the currency down 1.6 percent that day.  With EU leaders meeting in Brussels today as the region’s
debt woes threaten Portugal and Spain, Merkel’s statements may
raise financing costs for the euro area that she says she’s
defending, said  Henrik Enderlein , a political economist at the
Hertie School of Governance in Berlin. Her outbursts may also
derail efforts by other EU states and the European Central Bank
to fend off bondholders who are betting on a default.  “If you are in a context where Ireland, Portugal, Spain
and perhaps Italy have significant difficulties, you should
watch markets and be careful how you communicate,” Enderlein
said.  At stake are European efforts to contain weakness in the
bond markets that threatens to blow the euro region apart. The
single currency dropped 6.7 percent against the dollar this year
and the extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year bonds of
Italy, Spain and Portugal over German equivalents rose last
month to euro-era records.  Market Mover  As financial markets thrust policy makers into uncharted
territory, Merkel may have overtaken ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  as “the most important market mover,” said  Robin Marshall , director of fixed income at London-based Smith &
Williamson Investment Management, who helps oversee about $20
billion.  “The shape of the euro zone is going be driven by
Germany’s political attitude and willingness to underwrite the
debt of the peripheral countries,” Marshall said. “That’s why
the market is reacting so much to what she said.”  Merkel, who faces seven regional elections next year, has
said  her aim  is to put Germany’s stamp on the euro area by
getting all countries to reduce budget deficits, thus shielding
German taxpayers from the cost of any future bailouts.  The leader of Europe’s biggest economy hasn’t confined her
investor-roiling initiatives to bondholders. When Germany
introduced on May 19 an overnight ban on naked short-selling of
credit-default swaps on European government bonds, the euro
tumbled to a four-year low, stock indexes from Asia to the U.S.
declined and  Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest bank, fell as
much as 3.7 percent.  ‘Destructive’ Markets  Merkel was unapologetic about failing to coordinate with
her European partners on the ban, saying in a May 19 speech to
parliament she had to act to curb the markets’ “destructive”
potential. France joined the initiative in June and the European
Commission proposed EU-wide restrictions on Sept. 15.  The chancellor’s rhetoric reflects opposition from voters
and much of Germany’s political establishment to being Europe’s
paymaster, said  Gerd Langguth , a Merkel biographer and professor
of political science at the University of Bonn. Germany accounts
for 27 percent of the euro region’s  gross domestic product  and
is the biggest contributor to the Greek and Irish bailouts.  “She feels she has to make statements that show Germans
she’s got the situation under control,” Langguth said by phone.
“She mistrusts banks and financial markets in the sense that
she sees them as merrily going about their business and
expecting that governments will be there to pick up the debts.”  Karl Marx University  Merkel, 56, who grew up under East Germany’s command
economy, was 35 years old before she witnessed first-hand a
market-based system with the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989.
Her academic degree is in physics from what was then called  Karl
Marx University  in Leipzig. She also has a doctorate in quantum
chemistry from the Academy of Sciences in East Berlin.  “I’m better known as a physicist than an economist,”
Merkel told an audience in Berlin in March last year.  Merkel differentiates between the export-driven “real
economy,” which she says got Germany through the financial
crisis, and the “so-called markets” that speculate to survive.
Policy makers have to assert “primacy” over the markets in “a
kind of battle,” she said in a Nov. 18 speech in Berlin.  Her disinterest in pacifying investors was evident as she
held out against aiding Greece. On April 28, as Greece sought a
lifeline, Portuguese stocks fell, risk premiums on Italian and
Irish debt approached a 10-month high and the euro dropped to a
one-year low as investors speculated that Merkel would hold up
the bailout.  Greece Rescue  Greek yields retreated from a record after German lower-
house lawmakers backed as much as 22.4 billion euros ($30
billion) in aid for Greece on May 7.  Merkel’s hard line came too late to stop her losing a
regional vote on May 9 in Germany’s most populous state, which
cost her bloc its majority in the upper house. She blamed the
result on the Greek rescue.  That’s a lesson she’s learned going into this week’s EU
summit, Langguth said. She has knocked down proposals by
Luxembourg and Italy for joint euro-area bonds that would result
in Germany paying higher interest on debt and rejected Trichet’s
pleas to restock the 750 billion-euro rescue fund set up in May.  Any attempt to win parliamentary approval for more
resources to help the sovereign debt markets would encounter
opposition from her coalition, said  Frank Schaeffler , a lawmaker
with Merkel’s Free Democratic Party junior coalition partner.  No Firefighting  “Bond markets are burning, but instead of putting out the
blaze, Germany has chucked in the fire extinguisher,”
Schaeffler said. “The crisis is over our heads and the route
we’ve taken to quell it is very, very expensive and may become
more so.”  Merkel was hardly quelling investor concern in October,
when she persuaded French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  at the
Normandy beach resort of Deauville to lock in the threat that
bondholders will have to pay in future bailouts starting in
2013.  The deal prompted Trichet to express concern to EU leaders
that the plan’s threat of debt restructuring was worsening the
situation, Merkel told reporters on Oct. 29 in Brussels. She
responded that political leaders “also have to keep in mind our
people, who have a justified desire to see that it’s not just
taxpayers who are on the hook.”  Bonds in Greece, Ireland and Portugal declined. The
subsequent “panic” that culminated in the Irish bailout can be
traced back to that point, said Marshall of Smith & Williamson.
He held an office meeting the next Monday morning, Nov. 1, to
discuss the implications of Merkel’s comments at the “game-
changer” summit.  Case by Case  To be sure, Merkel doesn’t always act as tough as she
talks. She aided Greece, albeit after dragging out the process,
and watered down her proposal to force investors to accept
losses, agreeing instead to a “case by case” basis. Her
Christian Democratic bloc’s approval ratings have recovered to
the level of the September 2009 election.  “The chancellor’s public comments are based on her
mandate: making policy for the good of Germany and contributing
with this policy to a united and strong Europe,”  Steffen Seibert , Merkel’s chief spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Her case is buoyed by an economy that’s forecast to expand
at the fastest pace since records for a reunified Germany began
in 1992 and unemployment of 6.7 percent in October, compared
with the EU average of 9.6 percent.  Germany’s benchmark  DAX index  rose to its highest level
since May 2008 on Dec. 13. The gauge is up 18 percent this year,
outperforming the 8.8 percent advance of the U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index and the 9.1 percent gain of the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Merkel will ultimately have to act in Europe’s interest
whatever the cost, said Enderlein of the Hertie School of
Governance, who is also a former ECB economist.  “They will provide stability to the euro area and guarantee
euro-area debt of all sovereigns when necessary,” Enderlein
said. “Germany has no other choice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  