-- Estate Tax Gulf Deeper Than Dispute Over Rates, Exclusions
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-12-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/estate-tax-fight-in-congress-extends-beyond-few-thousand-who-would-pay.html
On paper, a mere 10 percentage
points and 2,860 wealthy taxpayers separate Republicans and
Democrats in the fight over taxing multimillion-dollar estates.
The political differences loom larger.  As the U.S. Congress moves to reinstate the estate tax next
year with a top 35 percent rate, the lowest in 80 years,
Republicans say they’ve made concessions after seeking to
abolish the levy, while Democrats insist the new rules would
benefit the nation’s wealthiest households at a time of record
income inequality.  The compromise by President Barack Obama and Senate
Republicans to extend Bush-era tax cuts would subject 3,600 U.S.
estates to any tax, of an estimated 2.6 million projected deaths
in 2011, according to estimates. House Democrats support an
alternative that would collect a higher rate of tax from 6,460
multimillionaires. While that’s a difference of just 2,860
taxpayers, Democrats see the new compromise as an affront to the
philosophy of taxation based on ability to pay.  “Their concern is the estate tax is and has long been the
most progressive tax in the system,” said Columbia University
law professor Michael Graetz, who wrote a 2005 book on efforts
to repeal the estate tax. “It’s symbolic for the Democrats of
the difficulty of raising much revenue at the top of the income
scale.”  House Democrats last year voted to reinstate the estate tax
permanently with a 45 percent top rate and a $3.5 million per-
person exclusion, a measure that died in the Senate. That would
generate $14 billion more in revenue over two years than a
provision in the current tax measure, according to the Joint
Committee on Taxation.  Tax-Free Allowance  Few households pay the estate tax because the law allows
millions of dollars to be bequeathed tax-free. The Senate bill
sets a tax-free allowance for 2011 and 2012 of $5 million per
person and $10 million per couple. According to the
Congressional Research Service, that exemption would mean only
0.14 percent of households would pay estate tax.  The number of total estates affected is higher. In 2011,
for example, the estates of about 9,100 people will have enough
assets to have to file a tax return, according to an analysis by
the Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Urban Institute
and Brookings Institution, two Washington research groups.  About 60 percent, or 5,500, will owe no tax because the
deceased individual would have transferred assets to a surviving
spouse or donated them to charity in lieu of writing a check to
the U.S. Treasury Department. One of the policy rationales for
an estate tax is to encourage charitable giving, Graetz said.  Tax-Free Gifts  Neal Weber, managing director in charge of RSM McGladrey’s
Washington National Tax Office, said the number of tax returns
filed obscures the fact that many minimize their estate tax
exposure through trusts to pass along underappreciated assets
before death. The Senate measure creates more opportunities to
do this in 2011 and 2012 by raising the lifetime tax-free gift
allowance to $10 million per couple, up from $2 million now.  “There are thousands and thousands of taxpayers who are
doing estate planning.” Weber said.  The estate tax has been part of the law since the income
tax was ratified in 1916. It was targeted for abolition in the
mid-1990s by congressional Republicans and activist groups such
as Americans for Tax Reform, based in Washington. Treasury
Secretary Andrew Mellon also tried in the 1920s to abolish the
tax.  Phased Out  In 2001, Congress agreed to phase out the estate tax as
part of President George W. Bush’s tax-cut proposal. It has
disappeared temporarily in 2010, with a capital gains tax on
some inherited assets taking its place, and is set to return
with a 55 percent rate and a $1 million tax-free allowance in
2011. About 43,540 estates would be subject to tax in 2011 if
Congress doesn’t act, according to the Tax Policy Center.  James Cody, director of estate and trust services for
Harris myCFO Inc. in Menlo Park, California, said groups opposed
to the tax have been divided between business owners who sought
to secure the highest possible tax-free allowance and those with
a higher net worth who wanted the lowest possible rate.  “If the estate is $100 million, the extra exemption is a
modest benefit and not going to change their behavior that
much,” Cody said. A $100 million estate would face an extra
$10.2 million in taxes under the Democrats’ proposal.  Among those who favor repeal of the estate tax, some are
willing to accept the 35 percent rate for now. Dick Patten,
president of the American Family Business Institute, a
Washington group founded by wealthy families to fight the levy,
said voting for the compromise wouldn’t violate the “No Death
Tax” pledge signed by 130 Republican lawmakers and Senator Joe
Manchin, a newly elected Democrat from West Virginia.  “The pledge is for permanent, total repeal, although not
necessarily at once,” Patten said. “If the death tax has to be
dismantled piece by piece, we’ll do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan J. Donmoyer in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  