-- Vikings Switch Stadium for Bears Game While Metrodome Roof Gets Repaired
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2010-12-15T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/metrodome-roof-won-t-be-repaired-in-time-for-vikings-bears-game-on-dec-20.html
The Metrodome’s roof is more damaged
than initially thought, forcing the Minnesota Vikings to turn to
the University of Minnesota in a bid to keep their game against
the Chicago Bears in Minneapolis.  Repairs to the inflatable structure that caved in under the
weight of 17 inches (43 centimeters) of snow three days ago
won’t be completed in time for the Dec. 20 National Football
League game, the stadium’s owner said last night.  The Vikings are working with the University of Minnesota to
get their TCF Bank Stadium ready for the nationally televised
Monday Night Football game.  “It was impossible to get it repaired in time,”  Bill Lester , executive director of the  Metropolitan Sports Facilities
Commission , which owns the Metrodome, said in a phone interview.  TCF Bank Stadium is about 2 miles (3 kilometers) from the
Metrodome. The open-air arena was completed in July 2009 at a
cost of $288.5 million and holds 50,805 spectators. The
Metrodome capacity is about 64,000 for football games.  “Preparation of the stadium is fully under way and
university officials have told us they’ll make every reasonable
effort to ensure the stadium will be ready for Monday night,”
the Vikings said last night in an e-mailed statement.  The collapse of the Metrodome roof resulted in the Vikings’
game scheduled for Dec. 12 against the New York Giants being
delayed a day and moved to Ford Field in Detroit.  New York won 21-3 to ensure the Vikings will miss the
playoffs for the first time in three seasons. The game also
marked the end of Vikings quarterback  Brett Favre’s  National
Football League record 297 consecutive starts because he was
sidelined with a shoulder injury.  Not Enough Time  The University of Minnesota said its stadium couldn’t stage
the Giants game because it would have taken five or six days to
become operational after being shut down for the winter after
the Gophers’ last game of the season on Nov. 27.  “There were a lot of other issues, like the snow on the
field there, the college hash marks not the pro hash marks, and
they didn’t have instant replay capability,” Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said in a Dec. 12 conference call with reporters.  Workers from Amherst, New York-based Birdair Inc., which
manufactured and installed the Metrodome roof, and  Geiger Berger
Associates , who designed the structure, were aiming to repair
the existing panels as a stop-gap.  That isn’t possible because the roof has become concave
since collapsing and the snow that collected in the center has
turned into a 4-foot-thick block of ice, Lester said.  “The cables are holding it, but we’ve got to work out how
to get rid of it before we can replace the torn panels,” he
said. “That ain’t so easy in a Minnesota winter.”  Lester couldn’t give cost estimates for replacing the
damaged panels and said the owner may know within three days how
long the work will take.  ‘Extremely Disappointed’  “We’re extremely disappointed with the results of the
assessment and the time it will take to replace the panels,”
 Roy Terwilliger , chairman of the Metropolitan Sports Facilities
Commission, said in an e-mailed statement last night. “When the
repairs are completed and the Metrodome is re-inflated, we will
have a facility that is in every respect safe and capable of
full operations.”  The commission will bear financial responsibility for work
on the roof, which is composed of 10 acres of Teflon-coated
fiberglass.  Birdair suggested in July that the commission begin
planning for replacement of the roof fabric, a process the
company said would take five years and cost between $12 million
and $15 million. The stadium has no debt and cash reserves of
$14 million or $15 million, Terwilliger said in a Dec. 13
interview.  Metrodome Replacement  The commission last year unveiled plans for an $870 million
replacement for the Metrodome. The Vikings’ lease runs through
the end of next season.  The Metrodome roof deflated 48 days after first being
inflated in October 1981 because of snow. While the structure
has had tears since then, the only previous event to be
postponed because of snow was a Major League Baseball game
between the Minnesota Twins and California Angels in April 1983,
the stadium owner said. The Twins moved to the new $545 million
outdoor Target Field in April.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup in New York at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  