-- Debt Contagion Threat Splits EU Leaders Seeking Rules to Stem Euro Crisis
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-12-16T16:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/eu-faces-gridlock-on-debt-crisis-nears-summit-accord-on-post-2013-tool.html
European Union divisions widened
over how to contain the debt contagion that threatens the euro,
limiting a summit that began today to an agreement on a crisis-
management mechanism that takes effect in 2013.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  balked at boosting or
making more flexible use of the EU’s 750 billion-euro ($1
trillion) emergency fund, as leaders neared an accord on the
tool to contain future debt shocks and the European Central Bank
armed itself with more capital.  Strife among Merkel, the ECB, Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , and the German domestic opposition
intensified on the eve of the Brussels summit, marring
confidence in Europe’s handling of the fiscal woes that forced
 Greece  and Ireland to fall back on financial handouts.  “There is a situation of European gridlock again with
Germany blocking actions to make progress,” said  Nick Kounis ,
chief euro-region economist at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam and a
former U.K. Treasury official. “There is a high risk of the
crisis re-escalating and maybe now it’s the quiet before the
storm in markets.”  Most European bonds fell today. The extra yield that
investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year bonds over German
counterparts rose 2 basis points to 244, one day after Moody’s
Investors Service warned about a possible credit downgrade. A
Spanish bond auction raised 2.4 billion euros, less than the
maximum target. The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.3187.  ‘Last Resort’  EU governments are close to agreeing on a two-sentence
amendment to the bloc’s  Lisbon Treaty foreseeing  a “mechanism
to safeguard the stability of the euro area as a whole” with
financial aid for distressed governments “subject to strict
conditionality,” according to a draft text.  Germany has failed to get a reference to possible costs to
bondholders enshrined in the treaty and is virtually alone in
pushing for the amendment to say that any financial assistance
will only be offered as a “last resort,” EU officials said
yesterday.  The summit started at 5 p.m. Brussels time with EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy  likely to announce interim results
in the late evening after dinner and a round of talks. The
gathering is slated to end around 1 p.m. tomorrow.  Last overhauled a year ago, the treaty is the EU’s
equivalent of a constitution, binding on EU institutions in
Brussels and on national governments’ handling of European
affairs. All 27 countries, including the 11 outside the euro
region, would need to ratify the amendment.  British Condition  Britain, the largest of the non-euro states and with a
soaring deficit of its own, will back a future aid facility as
long as it doesn’t have to pay in, Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said.  “We do need a new mechanism to help the euro zone sort out
its problems and its issues -- that’s important for Britain,”
Cameron said in Brussels. “But we do need to make sure that
Britain is not liable to spend money under that mechanism.”  German insistence on cutting bond values when countries get
into trouble in the future triggered the latest phase in the
debt crisis, culminating in an 85 billion-euro support package
for Ireland on Nov. 28.  Merkel laid out a nine-point set of demands that don’t need
to be embedded in the treaty, which won backing from euro
finance ministers last month. In a retreat for Germany, the plan
foresees only “case by case” writedowns for bondholders in
accord with International Monetary Fund practices.  ‘Decisive Signal’  Today’s summit should send a “clear and decisive signal
for Europe,” Merkel told reporters in Brussels. Setting up a
permanent mechanism “is a huge step of solidarity among the
euro countries.”  Away from the constitutional debate, Finnish Prime Minister
 Mari Kiviniemi  took issue with German objections to adding
flexibility to the 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability
Facility, the main component of the rescue funds.  “We are not ready to increase the size of the EFSF,”
Kiviniemi told Bloomberg Television. “But we are able to
consider making that vehicle a bit more flexible.”  Merkel continued to hold out against calls by ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  to put more money into the aid fund. The ECB
has bought 72 billion euros of weaker countries’ debt since May
under a policy  without unanimous support  on the bank’s council.  ECB Capital  A “back-of-the-envelope calculation” indicates the ECB
may lose money on the emergency purchases,  David Owen , chief
European economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in London,
said yesterday. The ECB today tapped national central banks for
an extra 5 billion euros, almost doubling its capital to 10.76
billion euros.  Driven by a German public outcry against aiding fiscally
reckless countries, Merkel also ruled out retooling the support
facility to buy troubled governments’ bonds and opposed further
entwining Europe’s economies by consenting to joint borrowing.  Luxembourg’s Juncker, the promoter of the joint bond-sale
proposal, said it won’t go anywhere at the summit. Joint
borrowing “would be a good thing even though we won’t come to a
conclusion on this at the meeting,” Juncker told InfoRadio
Berlin-Brandenburg.  Joining forces to borrow could cost German taxpayers an
extra 13.4 billion euros in interest payments annually by
harming Germany’s credit rating, the Munich-based Ifo economic
research institute said on Nov. 23.  German opposition leaders seized on the debate over the
bonds to criticize Merkel. Joint borrowing in the “medium
term” could be the kernel of a more integrated European
economy, former Finance Minister  Peer Steinbrueck  and former
Foreign Minister  Frank-Walter Steinmeier  wrote in yesterday’s
Financial Times.  “Our leaders face a choice: extend the crisis by stumbling
through, or regain momentum to end it,” the two Social
Democrats wrote. “Much will depend on the German chancellor.” 