-- EU Should Raise CO2-Reduction Goal to 25%, European Consulting Group Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2010-12-15T14:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/eu-should-raise-co2-reduction-goal-to-25-european-consulting-group-says.html
The European Union should move to a
stricter carbon-cut goal of 25 percent to ensure its energy
industry is transformed and encourage ambitious goals in other
countries, the European Economic and Social Committee said.  The EESC, a consulting body composed of members of economic
and social interest groups in Europe, said the EU internal goal
to cut greenhouse-gases should be tightened from the current 20
percent compared with 1990 levels following a United Nations
summit in Cancun, Mexico.  Climate envoys approved a climate-protection package on
Dec. 11, including a fund that would manage a “significant
share” of the $100 billion annually pledged last year in aid
for poorer nations by 2020 and a plan to reduce deforestation.
They failed to agree on emission-reduction targets after the
Kyoto Protocol’s initial limits expire in 2012.  “In the continuing absence of a comprehensive global deal
on climate change, the EU should consider an early move toward a
25 percent reduction by 2020,” EESC said in an  opinion  paper on
the EU energy strategy.  A more-ambitious target would lead to tighter caps in the
EU emissions-trading system, the world’s largest, and would
boost the price of carbon-dioxide allowances, EESC said.
European permits for delivery in December 2011 fell 1.4 percent
today to 14.56 euros on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Getting ‘Genuine’ Results  The EESC also said a floor price of at least 30 euros
should be set in the emissions-trading system to deliver
“genuine” results. The European Commission, the EU regulator,
has said it doesn’t favor intervention in carbon markets.  In addition, arrangements should be put in place to ensure
that “a higher proportion of carbon reductions are achieved
within the EU itself by appropriate investments rather than
being exported to other parts of the world,” the EESC said.  European emitters can use a quota of credits generated by
the United Nations carbon market to comply with their pollution
limits. Under the UN Clean Development Mechanisms, they can get
credits for emission-reduction projects in developing nations.  The EU said Dec. 11 the UN agreement in Cancun was an
important step on a “long and challenging” road toward a
binding treaty to tackle global warming. The 27-nation bloc has
said it may deepen its emissions-reduction goal to 30 percent
should other nations follow suit. It stopped short of doing so
during the 2009 summit in Copenhagen, citing inadequate efforts
by the U.S. and China.  A move to 25 percent “would secure some of the
transformational benefit of adopting a tighter target as soon as
possible, while retaining the negotiating benefits of having a
further 5 percent still to offer to encourage other countries to
do more in the next two years,” the EESC said.  Next year’s UN summit is scheduled to take place in Durban,
South Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  