-- European Stocks Retreat on Spain Debt Concern; BBVA Shares Drop
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-15T17:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/european-u-s-index-futures-fall-on-spain-concern-asian-stocks-decline.html
European stocks  declined, snapping
the longest stretch of gains in six months, after Moody’s
Investors Service put Spain’s debt rating on review for a
possible downgrade.  Banco Santander SA, Spain’s largest bank, and  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA  both fell in Madrid.  Inditex SA  slid 5.5
percent after the world’s largest clothing retailer reported a
slowing in profit growth. Drugmakers limited declines after
Novartis AG said it will take full control of  Alcon Inc ., ending
an 11-month dispute with minority shareholders.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  lost 0.4 percent to 276.53 at
the close in London, paring an earlier drop of as much as 0.7
percent. The benchmark gauge had climbed for the previous seven
days as China refrained from raising interest rates and U.S.
retail data boosted confidence in the world’s largest economy.  “We’ve just had a huge boulder thrown into the water
sending waves of uncertainty through the market,” said London-
based  David Buik , a market strategist at BGC Partners. “Spain
is an enormous country, its economy is the size of Greece,
Ireland and Portugal times two. We will have a bit of a mark
down, but markets will regain their poise again.”  Stocks pared losses after reports showed U.S. industrial
production increased more than forecast in November while
manufacturing in the New York region rebounded more than
estimated in December.  National benchmark indexes fell in 10 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 fell 0.6 percent and the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 dropped 0.2 percent as did Germany’s DAX.  Spain’s Rating  Spain’s IBEX 35 dropped 1.5 percent after Moody’s placed
the country’s Aa1 local and foreign currency government bond
ratings on review, saying Spain will need to raise about 170
billion euros in 2011.  European Union leaders are meeting tomorrow in Brussels to
discuss the creation of a permanent mechanism to shore up over-
indebted countries. At the Summit on Dec. 16 and 17 the group
will confront investor skepticism about its readiness to stem
the sovereign-debt crisis that led to bailouts for Greece and
Ireland and threatens to spread.  Santander fell 2.6 percent to 8.15 euros and BBVA, Spain’s
second-largest bank, lost 2 percent to 7.83 euros in Madrid as
Moody’s warned that Spain’s debt may increase because of costs
to recapitalize the banking industry.  “Spain’s substantial funding requirements, not only for
the sovereign but also for the regional governments and the
banks, make the country susceptible to further episodes of
funding stress,”  Kathrin Muehlbronner , an analyst at Moody’s,
said in a report today.  Inditex, Hennes & Mauritz  Spain’s Inditex fell 5.5 percent to 59.00 euros as profit
growth slowed in the third quarter. Net income rose 20 percent
to 551 million euros ($734 million) in the three months ended
Oct. 31, according to nine-month results reported today by the
owner of the Zara chain. Nine-month profit increased 42 percent.
The stock has surged 37 percent so far this year.  Hennes & Mauritz AB  fell 2 percent to 239.50 kronor.
Europe’s second-largest clothing retailer reported a 17 percent
rise in November total sales, while sales at shops open at least
a year rose 8 percent.  SuperGroup Plc , which owns the SuperDry clothing brand,
fell the most since its initial public offering in March, losing
11 percent to 1,450 pence, as higher costs curbed its profits.  “We see this as a negative turn,” London-based Execution
Noble Ltd. analyst  Sanjay Vidyarthi  wrote in a report today.
“We had previously understood that SuperGroup expected to
navigate input cost pressures relatively well as a result of its
growing scale and bargaining power with suppliers.”  Aixtron  Aixtron AG , a maker of equipment used to produce LED
screens, retreated 3.2 percent to 26.75 euros in Frankfurt after
U.S. peer  Veeco Instruments Inc . slumped 16 percent in U.S.
trading yesterday. Citigroup Inc. downgraded the U.S. maker of
gear for chipmakers and data storage to “hold” from “buy.”  Beiersdorf AG  dropped 5.7 percent to 41.195 euros after the
maker of Nivea skin-cream forecast 2011 operating earnings
before interest and taxes below this year’s level as the company
plans to “step up marketing spending significantly.” The
company posted an investor presentation on its website today.  Novartis rallied 4.9 percent to 56.25 Swiss francs after
the company agreed to pay $12.9 billion for Alcon stock it
doesn’t already own. The payment will be a combination of
Novartis stock and, if necessary, cash to bring the value of the
bid to $168 a share. Alcon’s Independent Director Committee
recommended approval.  Atos Origin  Atos Origin SA soared 13 percent to 38.36 euros after
Germany’s  Siemens AG  late yesterday said its plans to sell its
computer-services unit to Atos in an 850 million-euro ($1.14
billion) transaction.  The Munich-based company will receive a 15 percent stake in
the combined entity as well as cash and a convertible bond and
will contribute about 250 million euros to help the integration.
Siemens’ shares gained 1.6 percent to 92.60 euros.  Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc  rallied 4.9 percent to
415.6 pence after  Simon Property Group Inc . made a bid for
Britain’s biggest retail landlord that values the company at 2.9
billion pounds ($4.6 billion). Capital Shopping later rejected
the proposal.  Hochtief AG  gained 2.1 percent to 65.72 euros after
Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA raised its offer
price to 9 ACS shares for every 5 shares of the German company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 