-- Mexico Congress Strips Lawmaker Linked to Cartels of Political Immunity
-- B y   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o
-- 2010-12-15T01:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/mexico-congress-strips-lawmaker-linked-to-cartels-of-political-immunity.html
Mexican lawmakers removed the
political immunity of a federal congressman who is wanted for
allegedly being involved with a drug smuggling cartel.  Julio Cesar Godoy, of the Democratic Revolution Party, or
PRD, faces an arrest warrant from federal prosecutors for ties
to the Familia drug cartel based in Godoy’s home state of
Michoacan in western Mexico. All Mexican legislators are immune
from criminal prosecution unless the lower house of Congress
removes the immunity by vote.  Legislators voted 384-2 today to withdraw Godoy´s
protection. Godoy was sworn into Congress in September despite
prosecutors’ arrest warrant against him.  Godoy is the stepbrother of Michoacan’s governor. He said
in a news conference on Sept. 23 that he is innocent and denied
any ties to drug gangs. Godoy can return as a member of Mexico’s
lower house of Congress if exonerated of the charges.  The Attorney General’s Office gave lawmakers a recording in
which a voice, presumed to be Godoy, speaks with Servando “La
Tuta” Gomez Martinez, an alleged leader of the Familia cartel.  Mexican authorities last week killed Nazario Moreno
Gonzalez, a cartel leader, during unrest in Michoacan that
killed five policemen, three civilians and three gang members.  The U.S. government has referred to the Familia cartel as
“one of Mexico’s newest and most violent drug cartels.”  The cartel, which specializes in the methamphetamine trade,
also offered consumer loans with lower interest rates than banks
would give, newspaper Ovaciones reported last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adriana Lopez Caraveo  in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net  