-- Mexico IMF Request `Positive' for Peso, Cuts Need for Reserves, RBC Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-12-15T22:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/mexico-imf-request-positive-for-peso-cuts-need-for-reserves-rbc-says.html
Mexico’s request for a larger credit
line from the International Monetary Fund should be a
“positive” for the peso and may reduce the need to add more
foreign reserves, according to RBC Capital Markets.  The request for a $73 billion flexible credit line for two
years should be approved,  Eduardo Suarez , an analyst at RBC,
wrote in a note to clients. The original line ends in April.  “The increase in the size of the flexible credit line
means Mexico could reduce its target foreign exchange reserve
level (whatever that is), which would be supportive for the
peso,” Suarez wrote.  Mexico yesterday requested a renewal of the $47 billion
credit line that it secured from the Washington-based IMF last
year. Colombia and Poland were the only other nations that set
up precautionary arrangements with the IMF under its flexible
credit line in 2009. The program is reserved for countries that
pursue economic policies considered to be strong by the IMF.  Mexico has been buying dollars since March, pushing
reserves to a record $111 billion last week, after the peso fell
to an all-time low against the U.S. currency and the economy
contracted 6.5 percent last year, the worst recession since the
1930s. The economy may grow 5 percent this year, Finance
Ministry  Ernesto Cordero  said yesterday.  The line of credit is a “vote of confidence” in the
Mexican economy, central bank Governor  Agustin Carstens  said
yesterday. Mexico also has a $30 billion swap line from the U.S.
Federal Reserve.  The peso dropped 0.6 percent to 12.4571 per U.S. dollar at
5 p.m. New York time today, after rising for the past three
sessions. The currency has climbed 5.1 percent this year against
the U.S. dollar.  “This, in our view, is a clear signal of Mexico’s strong
fundamentals,”  Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico economist for
JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note to clients yesterday.
“However, we believe this is not a short-term market mover, as
this is something that Mexico somehow had before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  