-- Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's Founder, Named Time's Person of the Year 2010
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-12-15T15:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/facebook-founder-mark-zuckerberg-named-time-magazine-s-person-of-the-year.html
Mark Zuckerberg , founder of Facebook
Inc., was named Time magazine’s  “Person of the Year”  today for
“creating a new system of exchanging information” and
“changing how we all live our lives.”  Zuckerberg, 26, began the world’s largest social-networking
site in 2004. The service, with more than 500 million users, has
helped people connect with each other and changed definitions of
privacy, Time Managing Editor  Richard Stengel  said in a letter
on the  magazine ’s website.  Zuckerberg created Facebook for college students when he
was a sophomore at Harvard University. After opening the site up
to people outside of higher education, the company surpassed
 News Corp. ’s MySpace as the No. 1 social network two years ago.
Facebook users now post a billion pieces of content, such as
photos and messages, every day, Time said.  “There is an erosion of trust in authority, a
decentralizing of power and at the same time, perhaps, a greater
faith in one another,” Stengel said. “More than anyone else on
the world stage, Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg is at the center of
those changes.”  Zuckerberg is tied for No. 35 on the 2010 list of the 400
wealthiest Americans, according to Forbes magazine. His wealth
jumped 245 percent to $6.9 billion, the largest percentage
increase on its annual list, the magazine said.  Facebook, based in Palo Alto, California, lets users share
information about themselves and communicate with “friends.”
About 70 percent of the site’s users are outside of the U.S.  ‘The Social Network’  Facebook is  valued at $43.1 billion  by SharesPost Inc., an
exchange for closely held companies. That makes it the third-
largest U.S. Web business, underscoring the growing allure of
social media for investors. Zuckerberg said this month that
selling shares in the company was a possibility, without
offering details or a timetable.  The company has faced legal challenges, including a suit
from brothers  Tyler  and  Cameron Winklevoss , Harvard students who
said they hired Zuckerberg to write code for a dating and
social-networking site before he started Facebook. The
Winklevosses settled for $65 million in 2008.  A movie about Zuckerberg and the creation of Facebook,
“The Social Network,” was released on Oct. 1 and was nominated
for six Golden Globe awards yesterday.  The company has also faced privacy concerns from
legislators in Washington and the European Union looking at the
way Facebook and other websites, such as Google Inc., use and
store user information. The company has tweaked privacy options
on subscribers’ accounts and reduced the amount of publicly
available user information in response.  Past Winners  Zuckerberg is a year older than Time’s first person of the
year,  Charles Lindbergh , the aviator who made the first solo
trans-Atlantic flight. Time, owned by Time Warner Inc., started
the annual selection  in 1927 .  Runners-up for “Person of the Year” were the Tea Party
movement, an upstart political group;  Hamid Karzai , the
president of Afghanistan;  Julian Assange , founder of WikiLeaks,
a website that publishes classified documents; and the Chilean
miners, a group of 33 men who were trapped in a mine for more
than two months.  Other candidates for the accolade were talk-show
commentator  Glenn Beck , singer  Lady Gaga , and Apple Inc. founder
 Steve Jobs .  Last year’s winner was  Ben Bernanke , chairman of the U.S.
Federal Reserve. The magazine selected President  Barack Obama  in
2008. Previous winners include former President  Bill Clinton ,
Amazon.com Inc. founder  Jeff Bezos , China’s  Deng Xiaoping  and,
in 1982, the Computer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  