-- Fed Signals Stronger Economy Won't Slow Plan to Buy $600 Billion in Bonds
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-12-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/fed-signals-stronger-economy-won-t-slow-plan-to-buy-600-billion-in-bonds.html
Federal Reserve policy makers
indicated that signs of economic strength won’t deter them from
pumping money into the financial system so long as unemployment
remains elevated.  The Federal Open Market Committee said yesterday after its
final meeting of 2010 that growth is “insufficient to bring
down unemployment” and inflation has “continued to trend
lower.” U.S. central bankers affirmed a plan to buy $600
billion of bonds through June and renewed their pledge for an
“extended period” of low interest rates.  Stocks climbed and Treasuries fell as continued Fed
stimulus and better-than-forecast retail sales boosted the
outlook for growth in the coming year. Policy makers led by
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  are defying Republican criticism that
their policy will fuel inflation and asset price bubbles to
focus on cutting an unemployment rate that has stayed above 9.4
percent since May 2009.  “The clear message is there is no rethinking of the
program, no consideration of backing off,” said  Jim O’Sullivan ,
global chief economist at MF Global Ltd. in New York. “Arguably
they downplayed what have clearly been better growth data.”  Signs of economic strength, along with prospects for
additional fiscal stimulus, have pushed Treasury yields higher,
with the 10-year yield rising to 3.47 percent yesterday from
2.57 percent on Nov. 3, the day the second round of easing was
announced. The Dow Jones Industrial Average reached the highest
level since the Sep. 15, 2008 bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. , closing at 11,476.54 yesterday.  Dollar’s Climb  The dollar  has climbed 3.9 percent against a basket of six
currencies, while inflation expectations for the next five
years, as measured by the breakeven rate between nominal and
inflation-indexed bonds, rose to 1.63 percent yesterday from
1.47 percent on Nov. 3.  The Fed statement should “guide market participants to
focusing on the unemployment rate as the relevant measure for
whether the economy is picking up fast enough,” said  Dean Maki ,
chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital in New York. “The
economic data have clearly been improving and the Fed could have
sounded much more upbeat than it did.”  A Dec. 3 Labor Department report showed the unemployment
rate rose to 9.8 percent from 9.6 percent as the economy added
only 39,000 jobs in November. Other reports in recent weeks
signaled an improving economy, such as a greater-than-expected
increase in retail sales, the 16th consecutive month of
expansion in manufacturing, and consumer confidence at a six-
month high.  ‘Tight Credit’  The FOMC statement said “household spending is increasing
at a moderate pace, but remains constrained by high
unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and
tight credit.”  Fed officials yesterday left their  target  for the federal
funds rate, which covers overnight interbank loans, in a range
of zero to 0.25 percent, marking two years of the policy. The
central bank is likely to wait until the first quarter of 2012
to raise the rate, based on the median estimate in a Dec. 2-8
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The $600 billion of purchases are in addition to long-term
Treasuries the Fed is buying by reinvesting proceeds from
maturing mortgage debt, a policy begun in August. Combined
purchases through June will total $850 billion to $900 billion,
or about $110 billion a month, the Fed said Nov. 3. Policy
makers reiterated yesterday they will “regularly review” the
purchase program and adjust it as needed.  The central bank has  bought $114.1 billion  of Treasuries
since Nov. 12, under the program dubbed QE2 for the second round
of so-called quantitative easing. The Fed bought $1.7 trillion
of mortgage debt and Treasuries in the first round through March
2010.  Most Dissents  Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig , the longest-
serving policy maker, voted against the FOMC decision for the
eighth straight time, reiterating his view that the “continued
high level of monetary accommodation” may eventually
“destabilize the economy.” He tied former Governor Henry
Wallich’s record in 1980 for most dissents in one year.  “It was notable that the only acknowledgement of stronger
economic data and upward revisions to 2011 from fiscal policy
was in Tom’s dissent,” said  Diane Swonk , chief economist for
Mesirow Financial Inc. in Chicago. “It would take a lot of good
economic news to get Bernanke to change his mind” about the
stimulus plan.  The roster of voting members on the FOMC will change next
month to include policy makers who have voiced doubts about the
asset purchase program.  Raised Concerns  Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota ,  Richard Fisher  of Dallas and  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia have raised
concerns about the effectiveness of the Fed’s return to
quantitative easing, although Kocherlakota said in a Nov. 18
speech that he supported the policy as “a move in the right
direction.”  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans,  also set to become a
voting member, said in October the central bank would need to
buy securities on a large scale several times to carry out his
preferred strategy of aiming to raise inflation temporarily.  Policy makers  said in their statement today they need to
guide the economy more in line with the their congressionally
determined mission.  “The unemployment rate is elevated, and measures of
underlying inflation are somewhat low, relative to levels that
the Committee judges to be consistent, over the longer run, with
its dual mandate,” the Fed said, repeating language from last
month’s statement.  Slowest Pace  Inflation excluding food and fuel costs, as measured by the
personal consumption expenditures price index, fell to 0.9
percent in October, the slowest pace since records began in
1960. Central bankers prefer a long-run rate of 1.6 percent to 2
percent for the so-called core PCE gauge.  Republican lawmakers, including Indiana Representative  Mike Pence  and Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker , want to jettison the
half of the Fed’s legislative mandate that focuses on maximum
employment so as to concentrate on stable prices alone. Texas
Representative  Ron Paul , author of the book “End the Fed,” is
set to chair a subcommittee that oversees the Fed next year.  With the greater political pressure, “there’s going to be
a lot more noise and controversy around the Fed’s policies,”
said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for North America at BNP
Paribas in New York.  “This is Chairman Bernanke’s Volcker moment, when he may
have to engage in policies that are unpopular but what he thinks
he needs to do for the good of the economy,” she said.  Paul Volcker , Fed chairman from 1979 to 1987, increased interest
rates to as high as 20 percent to tame an annual inflation rate
approaching 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  