-- FedEx Wins Ruling That Contract Drivers Seeking Benefits Aren't Employees
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-12-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/fedex-wins-ruling-that-contract-drivers-seeking-benefits-aren-t-employees.html
FedEx Corp.  drivers were found by a
judge to be independent contractors in a nationwide series of
lawsuits claiming the company treats them as employees and owes
them full benefits.  U.S. District Judge  Robert Miller  in South Bend, Indiana,
yesterday threw out claims of drivers in 20 class-action cases
in California, New York, New Jersey and other states alleging
the company misclassified their employment status and owed them
back pay, overtime and other damages.  “We are very pleased with today’s significant rulings from
the federal District Court in Indiana,”  Maury Lane , a FedEx
spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail. FedEx, based in Memphis,
Tennessee, is the second-largest U.S. package-shipping company
after  United Parcel Service Inc .  FedEx saves money by using contractors because it doesn’t
offer them the same benefits and vacation time as it does
employees. The company has encouraged its contractors to
consolidate routes and hire their own subcontractors in an
effort to bolster its position that the workers are small-
business owners and not employees.  The contractor model gives FedEx’s Ground unit a cost
advantage of as much as 30 percent over Atlanta-based UPS,
University of Pittsburgh business professor  Marick Masters  has
estimated.  Miller found that the drivers are independent contractors
in 20 of the 28 remaining group lawsuits, and ruled in favor of
FedEx on some claims in the other eight class-action cases, Lane
said. In three cases, the court ruled against FedEx on at least
one claim, he said.  Lynn Faris , an attorney for the drivers, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message.  Multi-District Litigation  The cases are part of a so-called multidistrict litigation,
which allows suits filed in courts around the U.S. to be
consolidated before a single judge for pretrial hearings.  Miller’s ruling addresses whether drivers showed they were
misclassified under each states’ laws. In New York, for
instance, whether an employment relationship exists turns on the
degree of control the purported employer has over workers.  “FedEx doesn’t have the right to control the drivers’
means and methods of how they go about their work,” Miller said
in the decision. “FedEx’s results oriented controls don’t
result in employee status.”  The case is In re FedEx Ground Package System Inc.
Employment Practices Litigation, 3:05-md-00527, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Indiana (South Bend).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 