-- Fiat May Consolidate Chrysler Group in Second Quarter of 2011, UBS Says
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-12-15T17:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/fiat-may-consolidate-chrysler-group-in-second-quarter-of-2011-ubs-says.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker operated by Fiat SpA, may refinance U.S. government
loans by March, allowing the Italian automaker to buy a larger
stake in the second quarter, according to analysts at UBS AG.  “Taking control of Chrysler came across as a clear
priority during Fiat’s de-merger roadshow meetings,” said
 Philippe Houchois , the London-based lead analyst on a UBS report
to clients today. Fiat has been briefing analysts as part of its
effort to spin off its truck and tractor divisions to focus on
carmaking.  Chrysler may borrow money to repay the U.S. Treasury in the
first quarter, consolidate with  Fiat  during the second quarter
and hold an initial public offering in the third quarter,
Houchois said, calling it “an aggressive but in our view
realistic timeframe.”  Sergio Marchionne , the chief executive officer of both
Chrysler and Turin, Italy-based Fiat, said last week that he is
considering repaying U.S. and Canadian government loans before
2013, which could allow Fiat to exercise an option to increase
its ownership by 16 percent.  Fiat  obtained a 20 percent stake as part of Chrysler’s
bankruptcy reorganization last year. It can get 15 percent more
when Chrysler makes a small engine in the U.S., meets sales
objectives outside of North America and sells a domestically
made car in the U.S. that gets 40 mpg.  Year-End Goal  Fiat will get that stake by the end of next year,
Marchionne has said. He has also said he plans to take Chrysler
public during the second half of next year. Chrysler hasn’t said
it will sell a U.S.-made 40 mpg vehicle before the second half.  Consolidation would ideally mean holding a 51 percent
stake, Houchois said in an e-mail.  “Getting the last 5 percent installment to 35 percent may
take until end 2011 so Fiat may only be able to achieve
46 percent” by the end of the second quarter, he said.
“Consolidation can be achieved through other means, like
effective control of the board.”  Consolidating Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler before
its IPO could save Fiat 1 billion euros ($1.34 billion) to
2.7 billion euros, Houchois said.  Gualberto Ranieri , a Chrysler spokesman, declined to
comment on the UBS report.  Repaying the loans early could allow Fiat to exercise the
option in advance of 2013, analysts at Barclays Capital wrote a
Dec. 2 report. Barclays estimated the savings at about $2
billion for Fiat to exercise its 16 percent option in advance of
a Chrysler IPO.  Fiat  shares  today rose 7 cents to 14.57 euros in Milan
trading.  The face value of Chrysler’s debts to the U.S. and Canadian
governments is about $7.46 billion. Some of Chrysler’s
government loans mature by the end of next year while the
majority mature in 2017, according to the U.S. company’s third-
quarter financial statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 