-- RMB to Buy FirstRand's OUTsurance Stake; Split Bank, Insurance Businesses
-- B y   V e r n o n   W e s s e l s   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-12-15T15:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/firstrand-agrees-to-sell-45-interest-in-outsurance-group-to-rmb-holdings.html
RMB Holdings Ltd . agreed to buy
 FirstRand Ltd .’s stake in South African property and casualty
insurer OUTsurance for 3.75 billion rand ($550 million) as part
of a plan to split its insurance and banking businesses.  RMBH, which now owns 30 percent of FirstRand and 45 percent
of OUTsurance, will create a new insurer called Rand Merchant
Insurance Holdings Ltd. that will be listed on Johannesburg’s
stock exchange, the company said in a statement today.  FirstRand, which helped start OUTsurance in 1998, will use
the money from the sale of its 45 percent stake to “either
support further investment in the available growth opportunities
or be returned to shareholders,” it said separately. FirstRand,
which owns South Africa’s largest auto-loans provider and third-
biggest consumer bank, is simplifying its business while
targeting expansion in countries such as Nigeria, Zambia and
Tanzania.  RMBH also agreed to sell a 5 percent stake in its business
to Royal Bafokeng Holdings Ltd. for 2.5 billion rand, which will
be used to help pay for the OUTsurance acquisition, the
Johannesburg-based company said.  The series of transactions “will provide investors with
greater flexibility in terms of their investment choices by
giving them separate access to an enhanced portfolio of pre-
eminent insurance brands, as well as a strategic investment in a
premier Southern African banking group,” RMB Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Cooper  said.  Raise Stakes  RMBH, which also owns 25 percent of  Discovery Holdings
Ltd. , aims to raise its stake in FirstRand to 34 percent and its
holding in MMI Holdings Ltd. to 24 percent from 18 percent by
buying stock from Remgro Ltd. MMI, South Africa’s third-largest
insurer, was formed when FirstRand unbundled its Momentum Group
Ltd. and merged it with Metropolitan Holdings Ltd.  RMBH  rose  1.34 rand, or 3.8 percent, to 36.94 rand at the
close in Johannesburg. FirstRand  gained  15 cents, or 0.8
percent, to 18.80 rand, giving the company a market value of 106
billion rand.  For Royal Bafokeng, which represents the business interests
of the 300,000-strong Bafokeng community, the acquisition of a
stake in RMBH will help diversify the company’s investments,
which include platinum ventures in northern South Africa, the
location of the world’s richest platinum geological complex.  Diversify Portfolio  “This investment in RMBH enables us to diversify and
enhance our existing investment portfolio through significant
exposure to a leading financial services group,” CEO  Niall Carroll  said in an e-mailed statement.  Royal Bafokeng Holdings has 30 billion rand of capital in a
country where black South Africans own less than a fifth of the
top 100 stocks listed on Johannesburg’s stock exchange,
according to the bourse, more than 16 years since the end of
apartheid. The 800-year-old community also owns stakes in Zurich
Financial Services AG’s South African insurance unit and Vodacom
Group Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vernon Wessels  in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 