-- FleetCor Sells Its IPO at Bottom of Price Range as Three Offerings Reduced
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-12-15T21:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/fleetcor-sells-its-ipo-at-bottom-of-price-range-as-three-offerings-reduced.html
FleetCor Technologies Inc. , the
provider of corporate charge cards backed by Summit Partners and
Bain Capital LLC, advanced after its $292 million initial public
offering, while the prices for three other IPOs were slashed.  FleetCor , which earns a fee when drivers of commercial
fleets use the cards for approved expenses such as food and
fuel, sold 12.68 million shares at $23 each yesterday after
offering them for as much as $26, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Norcross, Georgia-based company’s shares climbed
 18 percent  to $27.25 in New York Stock Exchange trading today.  The offering was one of four U.S. initial sales yesterday
in the busiest week for deals since 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Walker & Dunlop Inc. , RigNet Inc. and  Gain
Capital Holdings Inc.  completed their sales after offering
discounts of at least 25 percent, while IPOs from BG Medicine
Inc. and Swift Transportation Co. were pushed back even as the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  traded at a two-year high.  “The IPO market feels tired,” said  Timothy Cunningham , a
money manager at Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment
Management, which oversees about $70 billion. Investors are
“looking down the list and thinking, the market’s had a big
run, and how risky do I want the portfolio to be,” he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. of New
York led the offering for FleetCor, which intends to use the
proceeds to repay debt, its filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission showed.  Private Equity  Summit Partners planned to sell 5.1 million shares in the
IPO to trim its ownership to 30 percent, the prospectus said.
Bain Capital intended to reduce its stake to 15 percent from 18
percent. Both private equity firms are based in Boston.  Walker & Dunlop  raised $100 million after the commercial
real-estate lender sold 10 million shares at $10 each. The
Bethesda, Maryland-based company originally offered the shares
for as much as $16 apiece, according to Bloomberg data.  RigNet , the Houston-based provider of communication network
infrastructure for the oil and gas industry, sold $60 million of
shares at $12 each, less than the $14-to-$16 range it sought
from buyers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gain Capital , the online provider of foreign-exchange
trading services, raised $81 million after the Bedminster, New
Jersey-based company failed to sell as much as $165 million of
shares in its IPO, Bloomberg data showed.  ‘Price Sensitivity’  Walker & Dunlop  slipped 1 percent to $9.90, while Gain
Capital fell 1.7 percent to $8.85. RigNet gained  4.6 percent  to
$12.55 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  “There was some price sensitivity,”  Glenn Stevens ,
president and chief executive officer of Gain Capital, said in a
telephone interview from the NYSE. “There are quite a few IPOs
that are pricing below the range. The process wasn’t to manage
for today’s price, but to manage for the price in the next six
quarters.”  Gain Capital’s IPO came after FXCM Inc., the New York-based
provider of Internet-based currency trading, raised $211 million
earlier this month. FXCM has fallen  9.3 percent  since its debut.  BG Medicine of Waltham, Massachusetts, delayed its $71
million offering yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Swift Transportation , the largest truckload carrier in
North America, also delayed its $1 billion offering to today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The IPO would be the
second largest in the U.S. this year after Detroit-based  General
Motors Co.’s  $18.1 billion offering, the data show.  The  S&P 500  climbed for a sixth straight day yesterday,
advancing 0.1 percent to 1,241.59 as Commerce Department figures
showed retail sales beat estimates. The benchmark gauge for U.S.
equity has risen 19 percent since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated on Aug. 27 that he was considering pumping
more cash into financial markets through bond purchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 