-- Ford Turkish Unit Seeking New York City Taxi Contract to Boost U.S. Sales
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2010-12-15T17:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/ford-turkey-unit-to-increase-u-s-sales-by-50-percent-in-2011.html
Ford Otomotiv Sanayi AS , the Turkish
venture of  Ford Motor Co.  that’s shortlisted for a contract to
supply New York City taxis, aims to increase sales to the U.S.
by 50 percent in 2011, Chief Executive Officer  Nuri Otay  said.  Ford Otosan, as the company is known, is already selling
its  Transit Connect  van for use as taxis and service vehicles
in U.S. cities including Los Angeles, Washington, Boston and
Chicago, Otay said yesterday in an interview in Istanbul. Demand
for the model, built at a plant in Kocaeli, will increase in
2011, boosting U.S. sales, he said.  Turkey, whose economy grew 8.9 percent annually in the
first three quarters, is a manufacturing base for automakers
including Ford,  Fiat SpA  and  Toyota Motor Corp.  The country
exports 75 percent of the cars, vans, buses and trucks it makes.
Output may rise 32 percent this year to 1.08 million vehicles,
including a 24 percent jump to 596,000 cars, according to the
Istanbul-based  Automotive Manufacturers Association of Turkey .  “Next year, wholesale and retail taxi-van sales to the
U.S. market will increase as we see demand from taxi companies
as well as from post offices for the Transit Connect,” raising
sales of the model to 30,000, Otay said. “There are several
taxi companies in each U.S. city, and they constantly review
their procurement plans.”  Taxi Replacement  Ford, Japan’s  Nissan Motor Co.  and  Karsan Otomotiv Sanayi &
Ticaret AS  of Turkey were named as finalists in November in a
competition to design a replacement for New York’s 13,237-taxi
fleet. The Nissan and Karsan models, like Ford’s, are van-like
designs with greater fuel efficiency and more leg room and trunk
space than current city taxis.  Electric Transit Connect models from Ford’s Turkish venture
are being used as service vehicles by North American customers
including  AT&T  Inc., Southern California Edison Co. and the New
York Power Authority, spokesman Umut Canpolat said. The vehicles
are shipped without engines and then fitted with electric motors
and batteries by Canada’s  Azure Dynamics , he said. The Transit
Connect is the only model Ford Otosan sells in North America.  Sales to the U.S. will increase regardless of the outcome
of New York’s taxi competition, Otay said. The contract is
expected to be awarded in the first quarter of 2011, he said.  Ford Otosan’s revenue and deliveries will both probably
increase 5 percent in 2011, while Turkey’s vehicle market will
remain unchanged at about 740,000 units, Otay said.  Sales Increase  “Although sales to most European countries may fall, we
expect more deliveries to emerging markets and this, along with
the U.S., will give us an increase over this year,” Otay said.  Ford Otosan will probably build 240,000 vehicles this year
and sell 300,000, including imports of Ford models produced
elsewhere and sold in Turkey, Otay said.  Ford Otosan makes vehicles at two factories in a joint
venture between Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford and  Koc Holding
AS , the country’s biggest group of industrial companies. Each
owns 41 percent of the manufacturer. It’s the second-largest
producer in Turkey, after the  Tofas Turk Otomobil Fabrikasi AS 
joint venture of Fiat and Koc.  New York officials intend to save taxi owners money with
one manufacturer for the entire fleet, with durable models
designed to handle potholed streets and rough weather over the
course of a typical 70,000-mile (113,000-kilometer) year, Mayor
Michael Bloomberg said on Nov. 15.  Ford Involvement  “If we win it, models that Ford will supply will go from
our Kocaeli plant, at least for the initial phase,” Otay said.
“This is a long-term project, and other Ford plants may also
supply models in the next 10 years.”  Ford announced a 950 million-lira ($626 million) investment
in October to build Transit minibuses in Kocaeli. The project
will start in 2011, Otay said.  The Turkish venture, which employs 6,150 people, exports
vehicles to more than 60 countries from Kocaeli. Ford Otosan
will seek ways to increase sales of Cargo-brand trucks to Russia
from its plant in Inonu in central Turkey, Otay said.  “Russia is a protected market, but we want to regain the
sales that we had there before the global crisis in 2008,” the
CEO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
 Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 