-- Formula One Courts Volkswagen With `Sexy' Energy-Saving Engines
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-12-15T14:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/formula-one-is-said-to-court-volkswagen-with-sexy-energy-saving-engines.html
Volkswagen AG  is among carmakers
considering entering Formula One after the racing series agreed
to implement energy-saving engines in 2013, according to two
people familiar with the situation.  The engines will reduce fuel consumption by 35 percent,
series ruling body  Federation Internationale de l’Automobile 
said. Formula One is courting auto companies with rules that are
more relevant to road car research after Honda Motor Co.,
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Toyota Motor Corp . stopped
funding teams in the last two years as the credit crunch reduced
sales, said Mark Gallagher, general manager of engine-maker
Cosworth Ltd.’s Formula One Operations.  That wiped out as much as $1.1 billion of revenue, or about
40 percent of the spending on the series, according to data from
London-based industry tracker Formula Money.  “There are signs that the car industry is starting to come
out of pretty dark days,” Gallagher said in a telephone
interview from Northampton, England. Formula One will help make
energy-saving “more sexy,” he added.  Volkswagen executives sat in on as many as 20 meetings at
the FIA’s Paris headquarters in the last year to help come up
with the engine rules, said Gallagher, who was also present.
Volkswagen’s interest in the sport was confirmed by another
meeting attendee, who declined to be identified because the
company hasn’t made a final decision.  The company, Europe’s largest carmaker, owns the Audi,
Lamborghini and Bentley brands and is merging with another
sports-carmaker,  Porsche SE .  Volkswagen is monitoring energy-saving in Formula One,
although “definitely has no plans at the moment” to enter a
team because of the “considerable financial risks,” company
spokesman Stefan Moser said in an interview.  1.6-Liter Engines  “The only thing that might be debatable is supplying
engines,” Moser said. “VW is good at making engines.”  The FIA said in a  Dec. 10 statement  that it’s “addressing
the needs” of the auto industry with the 2013 rules that
require teams to use four-cylinder, 1.6-liter engines, replacing
2.4-liter units. The engines will include energy recovery
systems, the FIA added.  The existing commercial accord between teams and CVC
Capital Partners Ltd.’s Formula One ends after 2012.
Volkswagen’s Moser said the technical complexities of the 2013
engine mean any company planning to enter Formula One would need
to begin designing it within “three to six months.”   Hispania  and other non-carmaker teams that replaced Toyota
and Honda are struggling for funds. Hispania is requiring
drivers to bring sponsorships to secure a drive for the 2011
season, team manager  Jose Ramon Carabante  told Spain’s Cadena
Ser radio station Dec. 12  Tourist Destination  “It is too early to say F-1 is safe” after the economic
downturn,  Xander Heijnen , a director of CNC Communications in
Munich who has advised carmakers on the series, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “Small teams are struggling to
make ends meet.”  New sponsors will be lured by “greener” engine rules,
according to Robin Fenwick, managing director of London-based
Right Formula Sports Marketing.  A tourist destination he declined to identify was “very
interested” in signing a sponsorship deal last year but was put
off by Formula One’s environmental image, Fenwick said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  