-- Four Ex-Madoff Workers Plead Not Guilty to New Charges in Ponzi Scheme
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-12-15T23:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/four-ex-madoff-workers-plead-not-guilty-to-new-charges-in-ponzi-scheme.html
Four former employees of  Bernard Madoff  appeared in court to answer new criminal charges two
years after their boss was arrested and admitted to running the
biggest Ponzi scheme in history.  Jerome O’Hara ,  George Perez ,  Daniel Bonventre  and  Joann Crupi  pleaded not guilty to a set of charges filed Nov. 17, in a
hearing today before U.S. District Judge  Laura Taylor Swain  in
Manhattan.  Swain also gave one more chance for a fifth former Madoff
employee,  Annette Bongiorno , to remain free on bail. The judge
said she will consider letting Bongiorno, who worked with Madoff
beginning in 1968, stay out of jail if she turns over
$2.4 million in cash plus whatever remains of about $3.8 million
her husband withdrew from a Madoff account over many years.  Swain set a hearing for Dec. 16 and said if the remaining
bail issues aren’t resolved, Bongiorno must surrender to federal
officials in Florida tomorrow by 3 p.m. to be transported to New
York.  Roland Riopelle , an attorney for Bongiorno, told Swain the
money could be put in an escrow account to address the judge’s
concern that his client might use the funds to flee.  "$2.4 million can take a person a long way in the U.S.,
Canada, Mexico and across the Canal Zone,” Swain said.  Locating Money  Bongiorno’s lawyers had objected to identifying the
location of the money still held by their client out of concern
that prosecutors will try to seize it.  O’Hara and Perez, two computer programmers at Madoff’s
firm, were charged last year. Bonventre, Madoff’s ex-operations
chief, was added to the case in February. Crupi and Bongiorno
were arrested and charged last month.  At the hearing today,  Andrew Frisch , who represents
Bonventre, told Swain he plans to file a motion to have his
client’s case tried separately from the others to avoid delay.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty last year to fraud and was
sentenced to 150 years in prison for using new investors’ funds
for payouts to existing ones in a scheme that ran from at least
the early 1990s.  At the time of Madoff’s arrest, his firm’s statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
investments, according to  Irving Picard , the trustee overseeing
the bankruptcy of Madoff Securities. Investors lost about $20
billion in principal.  The Madoff case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-213, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 