-- Four Charged With Embezzling $80 Million From New York's CityTime Project
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-12-15T21:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/four-charged-with-embezzling-80-million-from-new-york-s-citytime-project.html
Four consultants were charged with
embezzling $80 million from New York City related to an
automated timekeeping project for the payroll administration
office, the U.S. Attorney for Manhattan said.  Mark Mazer, Dmitry Aronshtein, Victor Natanzon and Scott
Berger were arrested today on fraud charges, according to an e-
mailed statement from U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara ’s office.
Begun in 2001, the CityTime project was intended to make payroll
operations more accurate, his office said.  Mazer, hired to perform quality assurance services on the
project, steered $76 million in work to consulting firms run by
Aronshtein and Natanzon, who then paid “shell companies”
linked to Mazer more than $24.5 million in kickbacks, Bharara’s
office said. Mazer used companies controlled by his wife and
mother to disguise the source of the money, Bharara said. Mazer
and his wife, Svetlana, used the proceeds to buy two homes and
six cars, and gave money to their children, the prosecutor said.  “In an ironic twist, funding for CityTime, a project
intended to prevent payroll waste, fraud, and abuse, was itself
allegedly bilked in part by fraudulent timekeeping,” Bharara
said in the statement. “In these times of shrinking government
budgets and fiscal austerity, the crimes charged today are
particularly galling.”  Cost of Project  The  CityTime  project has been marred by delays and cost
overruns, growing to consume more than $628 million, from an
initial estimate of $63 million, according Bharara. Only 35
percent of city employees were using CityTime as of June 2010,
when the project was supposed to be finished, he said.  “These charges will be another stain on the checkered
history of the CityTime project,” New York City Comptroller
 John Liu  said in a  statement . “This further underscores the
need to more closely monitor expensive outside consultant
contracts.”  Mazer falsified forms and, along with Aronshtein, Natanzon
and Berger, created and approved fraudulent timesheets for
consultants at the firms run by Aronshtein and Natanzon,
Bharara’s office said. He received more than $4.4 million for
work on the CityTime project, Bharara said.  The men each face a charge of conspiring to commit wire
fraud and may get 20 years in prison if convicted, Bharara said.
Mazer, his wife, Svetlana, and his mother, Larisa Medzon, were
also charged along with Aronshtein and Natanzon with conspiring
to launder the proceeds of the scheme. Each may receive a
maximum prison sentence of 20 years, if convicted, Bharara said.  The names of lawyers who may be representing the defendants
couldn’t be determined.  “We have zero tolerance for corruption,” Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said during a news conference in Brooklyn today.
“Until the investigation is done, we can’t say anything more.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  The case is U.S. v. Mazer et al, 10-MAG-2809, filed in the
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  