-- LG Display Expects 3-D to Get 10%-20% of LCD TV Market Next Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-15T10:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/lg-display-ceo-sees-3-d-taking-10-20-of-lcd-television-market-next-year.html
LG Display Co. , the world’s No. 2
flat-screen panel maker, expects 3-D televisions to capture
10 percent to 20 percent of the global liquid-crystal-display
TV market next year as companies unveil new, affordable models.  Global shipments of LCD TVs may reach 250 million sets in
2011, Chief Executive Officer  Kwon Young Soo  said in an interview
in Beijing today.  Samsung Electronics Co. , Sony Corp. and Panasonic Corp.
are among companies counting on 3-D televisions to help revive
prices and earnings as regular televisions become cheaper.
Shipments of LCD TVs this year will probably total 185 million
sets, according to  Yoon Hyuk Jin , a Seoul-based analyst at
Shinyoung Securities Co.  Growth of the global LCD-TV industry is driven by demand in
China, which surpassed the U.S. to become the world’s largest
market this year, according to an estimate from Shinhan
Investment Corp.  China will be the first market where TVs using LG Display’s
latest 3-D technologies called Film Patterned Retarder, or FPR,
will go on sale, ahead of the U.S. and Europe, Kwon said. The
technology doubles the brightness level of current products, and
features polarized glasses that are “more affordable and
comfortable,” Kwon said without giving pricing details.  The company has already started production and the model
will go on sale “very soon” in China, Kwon said. Sales in the
U.S. may start by about February and in Europe by April or May,
he said.  “All of our VIP clients are in China,” Kwon told a
conference in Beijing. “Developing China is at the heart of the
world market, particularly for televisions.”  FPR Technology  The FPR technology uses polarized glasses to view 3-D images
with visual information sent to both eyes simultaneously. It offers
an alternative to the shuttered-glasses approach used by Samsung,
which produces a 3-D image by sending visual information to each
eye sequentially.  LG said its polarized glasses will be lighter and more
comfortable to wear, with less eye strain, than the shuttered
glasses. Kwon was in Beijing to unveil the technology.  About 39 million LCD TVs likely will be sold in China this
year, and sales are estimated to increase to 46 million next
year, according to Shinhan Investment Corp.  LG Display earlier this month said it received Chinese
government approval to build a $4 billion factory in southern
Guangzhou. It will use eighth-generation technology designed to
make displays measuring more than 40 inches diagonally.  Samsung, the world’s biggest maker of liquid-crystal
displays, also announced approval from China this month for a
proposed $2.3 billion plant in Suzhou.  -- Edmond Lococo . With assistance from  Jun Yang  in Seoul.
Editors:  Suresh Seshadri ,  Anand Krishnamoorthy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 