-- Gap Between Rich and Poor in U.S. Drawn Along Geographic Lines
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/gap-between-rich-and-poor-in-u-s-drawn-along-geographic-lines.html
The gap between the haves and have-
nots in the U.S. is being drawn along geographic lines, Census
Bureau data showed yesterday.  The number of counties where median household income
decreased is almost 10 times the number that saw an increase,
according to a Bloomberg analysis of Census figures comparing an
average of the years 2005-2009 with 2000. The government figures
also showed a concentration of wealth and education in coastal
states.  “The dispersion of income is larger than it’s ever
been,” said  Douglas Besharov , a professor at the University of
Maryland’s School of Public Policy. “There used to be a much
wider spread of incomes within geographic areas than there is
now. There’s much more of a clumping together.”  The Census Bureau  data  from the American Community Survey
cover more than 670,000 communities, including cities, counties
and neighborhoods, and represent about one in 10 U.S.
households. The estimates, compiled from  survey s conducted over
five years on topics such as poverty, housing costs and
commuting times, are the last look at the U.S. population before
the Census Bureau releases figures from its 2010 decennial count
on Dec. 21.  The Washington metropolitan area emerged as the wealthiest
and most educated region of the past five years. The only three
communities with median household incomes higher than $100,000
are in suburban counties in Virginia. Maryland, which also
borders the nation’s capital, saw income levels in Howard County
increase at the eighth-fastest pace in the U.S. since 2000.  Washington Suburbs  The Washington suburbs are home to government contractors
such as Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. , the
world’s largest defense company, and  General Dynamics Corp. , the
Falls Church, Virginia-based maker of Abrams tanks and
Gulfstream business jets.  The 10 communities with the highest incomes are located on
the East Coast -- Maryland, New Jersey, New York and Virginia --
with the exception of Douglas County in Colorado. Among counties
with median household incomes of less than $25,000, the bottom
10 are in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia and Kentucky.  The government numbers indicated that the Spanish-speaking
population declined in some border-state communities -- Arizona,
California, New Mexico and Texas -- and gained in counties
farther north, in Virginia and North Carolina, compared with
2000 census data.  ‘Vibrant Economy’  “There’s some evidence that in the nation as a whole the
rise of immigration has leveled off or even gone down as the
recession has hit,” said D’Vera Cohn, a census analyst at the
 Pew Research Center  in Washington. Northern Virginia has had a
“vibrant economy” in recent years and that has attracted
skilled foreign-born workers and others employed in the services
industry, she said.  Seven of the 17 counties where more than half of residents
25 years or older had a college degree are located in the
Washington suburbs, the Census Bureau said. Five of the counties
are in landlocked states, according to data in the release of
the American Community Survey.  “The ACS represents the first time such a massive
compilation of data estimates for small geographic areas is
available,”  Robert Groves , director of the Census Bureau, said
yesterday in a statement. The “very important socioeconomic
information will inform planners throughout the country,” he
said on a conference call with reporters.  College Graduates  The community with the lowest percentage of college
graduates was Owsley County, Kentucky, where 4.6 percent of
residents had a bachelor’s degree. Falls Church in Virginia had
the highest at 69.5 percent. Owsley also had the lowest median
household income, at $18,869, and Loudoun County, Virginia, had
the highest at $112,021.  Data from the final census count will affect the allocation
of about $4 trillion in government funds during the next 10
years and determine which states will gain or lose seats in
Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  