-- GM, Ford Parts Shortages Cut Output for Second Day
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-12-15T21:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/general-motors-ford-auto-parts-shortages-reduce-production-for-second-day.html
General Motors Co.  and  Ford Motor
Co. , the two largest U.S. automakers, said parts shortages
caused by winter storms in Canada and the U.S. Midwest reduced
production for a second day.  GM’s Lansing Grand River plant in Michigan is shut down,
and six other plants have shortened or suspended shifts,  Chris Lee , a company spokesman, said today in an interview. Shifts
have been shortened at the CAMI assembly plant in Ingersoll,
Ontario, which makes the Chevrolet Equinox sport-utility
vehicle, and a plant in Fort Wayne, Indiana, Lee said.  GM’s plant in Lordstown, Ohio, is running half shifts, and
its Oshawa Assembly in Ontario is running half a shift on one
line and is shut down on the other, Lee said. The Detroit-based
company’s heavy-duty pickup plant in Flint, Michigan, is
receiving some parts and will run two shifts through tomorrow,
said  Tom Wickham , a spokesman.  Automakers record revenue when vehicles are assembled. So
the loss of production may affect the companies’ fourth-quarter
sales if the output isn’t recouped during the rest of the month.  Production was suspended early at Ford’s Oakville assembly
plant in Ontario, Todd Nissen, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.
All other plants are running “as previously scheduled," he
said. The automaker’s St. Thomas plant in Ontario, its factory
in Avon Lake, Ohio, and its Chicago factory, which makes the
Explorer SUV, missed production earlier, he said.  ‘‘We are starting to see improvements in the parts flow and
hope to return to normal production on Thursday,’’ he said.  Highway Still Closed  Chrysler Group LLC factories in Toledo, Ohio, and Brampton,
Ontario, were shut down this morning and should resume
production this afternoon,  Jodi Tinson , a spokeswoman for the
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based automaker, said in an e-mail.  The second shift at Chrysler’s factory in Belvidere,
Illinois, has been canceled because of ‘‘weather-related parts
issues,’’ she said.  Lambton County in Ontario remains in a state of emergency
after a winter storm on Dec. 13, the Ontario Provincial Police
said today in a  statement  on its website. Eastbound lanes of
Highway 402, which crosses the border to Port Huron, Michigan,
were reopened today, police said.  Snow and stranded vehicles still are being removed from
westbound Highway 402, according to the police.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 