-- Gene-Altered Rubber Trials Planned in India as Ford, Suzuki Worsen Deficit
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-12-15T08:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/gene-altered-rubber-trials-planned-in-india-as-ford-suzuki-worsen-deficit.html
India, the largest natural-rubber
user after China, plans to begin field trials of a genetically-
modified variety as it seeks to overcome a shortage forecast by
the industry to surge fivefold over the next decade.  The state-run  Rubber Board  will secure approvals from the
states of Kerala and Maharashtra before planting 0.4 hectares,
James Jacob, director of the Rubber Research Institute of India,
said by e-mail. The trials were cleared last month by  the
Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee , a panel set up by the
environment ministry, he said.  Global carmakers led by  Ford Motor Co.  are building plants
in Asia’s second-fastest growing major economy where car sales
are projected by the government to double to 3 million by 2015.
 Bridgestone Corp.  and its Indian rivals are spending $3 billion
on new capacities to meet demand forecast by the Automotive Tyre
Manufacturers’ Association to expand 10 percent to 106 million
tires in the year to March 31.  “Every country in the world needs natural rubber, a vital
and strategic industrial raw material like iron and coal,” said
Jacob. “Domestic requirement of rubber will increase as our GDP
increases, and indications are that there will not be enough.”  Gene-altered rubber trees will be resistant to drought and
tapping panel dryness, and have the ability to produce higher
yields even under adverse weather conditions, said Jacob.  Prices in Tokyo, Thailand and China have climbed to records
this year after persistent rain in the producing nations lowered
output. In India, prices surpassed 200 rupees a kilogram last
month for the first time.  India’s deficit may increase to 840,000 tons in 2020 from
175,000 tons next year,  Vinod Simon , president of the  All India
Rubber  Industries Association, said on Dec. 2. Consumption may
climb to 1.89 million tons in 2020, from 930,000 tons this year,
if the economy expands at 8.5 percent annually, the group said.  Brinjal  India has said it wants gene-modified technology to be part
of efforts to raise output of staples, following the success of
transgenic cotton introduced in 2002. Still, the government in
February rejected the nation’s first gene-modified food, brinjal,
or eggplant, after protests by farmers.  Gene-altered cotton represents 90 percent of the nation’s
planting, according to the farm ministry. The country has moved
from being a net buyer to the second-biggest grower and exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  