-- Ghana’s New Oil Wealth May Trigger Borrowing Spree
-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 2010-12-15T10:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/ghana-oil-wealth-may-trigger-borrowing-spree-not-fund-future-generations.html
Ghanaian President  John Atta Mills 
says the country will learn from the mistakes of other African
oil producers and save some of the revenue for future
generations after production starts today. Government agreements
to borrow more than $14 billion say otherwise.  Ruling party lawmakers amended a  bill  on Dec. 9 to allow
the government to borrow against future oil revenue and are
weighing plans to delay the creation of a sovereign wealth fund.
The move comes on the heels of September loan accords with China
worth about 45 percent of the country’s gross domestic product.  The West African nation’s willingness to leverage its oil
wealth may saddle future generations with debt, while failing to
avoid the economic decay that has accompanied oil riches in
countries such as Nigeria. The borrowing comes just six years
after Ghana won $3.5 billion in  debt relief  from the
International Monetary Fund and World Bank.  “By 2014, it is not impossible to imagine over 20 years of
Ghana’s future oil revenues tied up in one contract or
another,”  Sebastian Spio-Garbrah , an Africa analyst at New
York-based DaMina Advisors, said in a Dec. 10 e-mail.  In addition to the Chinese loans for transportation and
energy projects, Mills plans to borrow $1.5 billion from South
Korea’s  STX Business Group  to build 30,000 houses for security
forces and another $500 million from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
upgrade railroad services. By contrast, Ghana will earn an
average $1 billion a year from oil through 2029, the World Bank
 estimates .  Thanks to God  “We must give thanks to God for giving us this natural
asset,” Mills said after opening a tap to release oil aboard a
storage ship today. “It means we are assuming very serious
responsibilities. Those of us in leadership positions must
ensure oil is a blessing is not a curse.”  Ghana’s state-owned oil company, the Tema-based Ghana
National Petroleum Corp., owns 13.75 percent of the Jubilee
field, U.K.-based  Tullow Oil Plc  owns 34.7 percent, Dallas-based
Kosmos Energy LLC owns 23.5 percent, The Woodlands, Texas-based
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  owns 23.5 percent, and two small
Ghanaian companies control the remainder. The field will produce
55,000 barrels a day starting today, rising to 120,000 barrels
per day within three to six months, according to Tullow’s
website. That may reach 240,000 barrels a day by 2014-2015,
according to Ghana National Petroleum Corp.  Late Payments  Ghana has been overspending since the oil was discovered in
2007, with the government posting a fiscal deficit in excess of
5 percent of GDP in each of the past three years.  Moreover, it has $1.4 billion of unpaid bills to local
contractors and municipalities, according to the Accra-based
 Centre for Policy Analysis . At least a fifth of the bad loans at
Ghana’s commercial banks are directly linked to government
arrears, it said.  Given Ghana’s past profligacy, “any kind of oil-backed
borrowing should be viewed with some concern,” said  Razia Khan ,
head of Africa research at Standard Chartered Plc in London, in
a Dec. 9 e-mail. “It sits somewhat uncomfortably with a longer
term picture, where Ghana could have shown more conservatism.”  Some lawmakers in the ruling National Democratic Congress
party also are trying to delay by five years plans to save 30
percent of oil revenue, some of it in a sovereign wealth fund.
 Parliament  will probably vote on the oil bill, which has been
rewritten to allow the use of oil revenue as collateral, next
month.  No Pitfalls  President Mills says the government will avoid the pitfalls
other African oil producers have fallen into.  We “must set an example to all and sundry that when
natural assets are utilized, they bring nothing but benefits,”
he said today.  Ghana has a good track record, after cutting hunger by 75
percent between 1990 and 2004 and maintaining one of Africa’s
most stable democracies in the past 20 years. Buoyed by a
burgeoning financial sector and record prices for cocoa and
gold, its two largest exports, growth has averaged more than 5.5
percent over the past decade.  Still, larger African oil producers have squandered their
new-found wealth. The ratio of foreign debt to GDP in Nigeria,
Africa’s largest oil producer, ballooned from less than 10
percent in 1980 to almost 140 percent in 1993, according to a
2006  paper  published by the World Bank. Oil production rose 50
percent to 1.96 million barrels a day over the same period.  Rail to Nowhere  Gabon , where oil accounts for 46 percent of fiscal revenue
according to the U.S. State Department, borrowed to finance the
Trans-Gabon Railway in the 1980s. It ran  hundreds of miles 
through jungle to connect the country’s Atlantic coast with
Franceville, near the hometown of former President  Omar Bongo .
In 1998, the country suspended payments on its debts.  Now Ghana is planning to build railway lines, including an
extension from Kumasi to Paga on the border with  Burkina Faso ,
at a cost of $6 billion. The government says it will help
develop the impoverished north, while the opposition says it
won’t make a profit.  “We have weak budgetary systems, weak institutions, and we
don’t have enough capacity in terms of engineers and
contractors,” said Mohammed Amin Adam, coordinator of an
alliance of 115 non-governmental organizations that lobbied the
government against using future oil receipts to obtain loans.
“A lot of this money is going to leak out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason McLure  in Accra on 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Antony
Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 