-- Gilt Groupe Said to Raise at Least $15 Million From TriplePoint
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/gilt-groupe-is-said-to-raise-at-least-15-million-from-triplepoint-capital.html
Gilt Groupe Inc., a members-only
online retailer focused on luxury brands, raised at least $15
million in debt financing from  TriplePoint Capital , according to
two people familiar with the matter.  The deal closed about two months ago and will help the
 three-year-old  company cope with rising demand, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the financing hasn’t been
made public.  Gilt, which has a deal site called Gilt City, is taking 
advantage of low borrowing costs and growing interest in
coupon sites to raise funding. Competitor Groupon Inc. spurned a
$6 billion takeover offer from  Google Inc . earlier this month,
while LivingSocial attracted $175 million from Amazon.com Inc.
Gilt City is offered in Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, New
York and San Francisco.  Gilt Chairman  Susan Lyne  didn’t respond to an e-mail
request for comment. Theresa Maloney, a representative for
TriplePoint, said executives at the Menlo Park, California-based
firm weren’t available for comment.  Unlike equity financing, which requires startups to give up
a stake in their business, debt lets new companies raise funds
without having to cede ownership. Gilt, based in New York,
previously raised at least $83 million in venture funding from
 General Atlantic LLC  and  Matrix Partners .  Gilt’s main business offers deals for as much as 70 percent
off and gives members three days to decide whether to make a
purchase. It specializes in apparel, home entertainment and
luxury travel, offering brands such as Dolce & Gabbana and
Giorgio Armani. The company said Dec. 13 that it will sell three
new Volkswagen AG Jettas for $6,000 apiece, beginning today.
That’s almost two-thirds off the normal  price .  TriplePoint, which started in 2006, has provided more than
 $1 billion  in lease and loan financings to hundreds of venture-
backed companies, according to its site. The firm has previously
provided financing to  Facebook Inc. , Etsy Inc. and Chegg Inc.  Gilt is also listed as a client on TriplePoint’s site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  