-- Global Purchases of U.S Financial Assets Slowed in October, Treasury Says
-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 2010-12-15T14:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/global-demand-for-u-s-financial-assets-slowed-in-october-treasury-says.html
Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds
and other financial assets slowed in October from a month
earlier, the Treasury Department reported.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$27.6 billion during the month compared with net buying of $77.2
billion in September, according to statistics issued today in
Washington. Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners purchased a net $7.5 billion compared with net buying
of $80.1 billion the previous month.  The U.S. economic recovery from the deepest recession since
the 1930s has lagged behind growth in emerging markets, weighed
down by an unemployment rate close to 10 percent and record home
foreclosures.  “Non-developed countries are seeing a stronger recovery
from the 2009 recession and investors are choosing to put money
in faster-growing overseas markets,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in New York,
before today’s report. “Risk is back on in a big way.”  The Treasury’s reporting on long-term securities captures
international purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks,
corporate debt and securities issued by U.S. agencies such as
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which buy home mortgages.  China remained the biggest foreign holder of U.S.
Treasuries, after its holdings rose by $23.3 billion to $906.8
billion in October, according to the Treasury’s statistics.  The Chinese currency, the yuan, has strengthened since a
two-year dollar peg was scrapped on June 19. The government will
push forward the reform on the yuan’s exchange rate next year,
according to a statement on the State Council’s website Dec. 12
following the Central Economic Work Conference.  The Treasury’s statistics on other countries showed Japan,
the second-largest holder, increased its holdings by $12.8
billion to $877.4 billion in October. Hong Kong, counted
separately from China, increased its holdings by $3.3 billion to
$139.2 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vincent Del Giudice  in Washington at 
Or  vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  