-- Goldman Sachs Moves Kathleen Brown to Midwest Role
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-12-15T22:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/goldman-sachs-moves-brown-to-midwest-as-brother-wins-california-election.html
Kathleen Brown , who runs the West
Coast municipal finance team at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , will
move to a newly created post in Chicago after her brother  Jerry Brown  was elected last month as California’s next governor.  Brown, 65, will become chairman of investment banking for
the Midwest, New York-based Goldman Sachs said in an internal
memo today. The former California state treasurer, whose brother
and father both served as the state’s governor, joined Goldman
in 2001.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for the firm, confirmed
the contents of the memo, which was signed by  David Solomon  and
 John S. Weinberg , co-heads of investment banking.  “Kathleen is taking on this new role because it broadens
her client focus,” DuVally said. “Had she continued to work
with California municipalities, it might have created the
perception of a conflict of interest.”  Goldman Sachs is ninth among underwriters of municipal debt
issued this year by California, the biggest issuer of municipal
bonds in the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican, leaves office Jan.
3 when Governor-elect Jerry Brown, a Democrat who held the job
from 1975 to 1983, is sworn in. Brown defeated former  EBay Inc. 
Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman , who came under criticism by
Democrats for being a former board member at Goldman Sachs.  Bridge Loan  Goldman, the most profitable securities firm in Wall Street
history, lent the state $1.5 billion in November as part of a
syndicate of six banks. The arrangement provided California with
a $6.7 billion bridge loan to help pay bills after a budget
impasse left the state short on cash. Goldman Sachs led a group
of investment banks on $4.93 billion in bonds sold by the state
since Jan. 1, 2009.  J. Timothy “Tim” Romer , 49, a managing director in the
West Coast public sector and infrastructure group, will succeed
Kathleen Brown as head of the group, DuVally said. Romer, who is
based in Los Angeles, joined Goldman Sachs in 2003 after working
in public finance at  Bank of America Corp.  and Merrill Lynch &
Co., which is now part of Bank of America.  Brown’s new role will be focused on client relationships
and  John Gilbertson  will continue to run investment banking in
the Midwest region, DuVally said.  Brown, who was herself the 1994 Democratic nominee for
California governor, reports to  James P. “Jim” Esposito , chief
operating officer for investment banking, as well as to  John Waldron , head of investment-banking services, DuVally said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 