-- Goldman Sachs Hires New York Fed's Lubke, Pointman on Derivatives Reform
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-12-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/goldman-sachs-hires-new-york-fed-s-lubke-pointman-on-derivatives-reform.html
Theo Lubke , who headed the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s efforts to reform the private
derivatives market, joined Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to help Wall
Street’s most profitable firm navigate the looming overhaul of
financial regulations.  Lubke, 44, started this month as chief regulatory reform
officer in Goldman Sachs’ securities division, according to a
memo obtained by Bloomberg News. The newly-created role will
allow Lubke to “work closely with divisional and firm-wide
leadership to implement regulatory reform legislation,” the
memo said.  Goldman Sachs is hiring Lubke five months after Congress
mandated the regulation of the $583 trillion over-the-counter
derivatives market, which complicated efforts to resolve the
financial crisis. The reforms threaten to cut profits at dealers
because they will make swaps prices known to the public. Lubke’s
new firm employs a former New York Fed president and has an ex-
Fed board chairman as a director. The current president of the
New York Fed,  William Dudley , also worked there.  “It’s a pattern,” said  Charles Geisst , a finance
professor at Manhattan College in Riverdale, New York, who has
written about Wall Street’s history. “It’s troublesome stuff
and there needs to be some regulation so people don’t do it and
undermine public policy.”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs who
confirmed the contents of the memo, declined to comment.  Lubke Reassigned  “The Federal Reserve and New York Fed have strict conflict
of interest policies for its staff, including departing
employees,” Jeffrey Smith, a spokesman for the New York Fed,
said in an e-mailed statement. “In this instance, as in all
cases, these policies were strictly followed.”  Senior Fed officials who leave are prohibited for six
months from attending any meetings with the central bank or from
any contact with it on matters related to the area in which the
official worked, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Lubke was reassigned to an administrative role at the Fed
in September so he could begin looking for a job outside the
bank, a person familiar with the matter said at the time.  In 2007,  Timothy Geithner , then president of the New York
Fed, appointed Lubke to his former role, as the central bank
pushed for changes in the credit-default swap market. Geithner,
who’s now Treasury Secretary, started those efforts in 2005 when
he became concerned that an explosion of trading was threatening
the ability of banks and regulators to manage and monitor risks
that posed a threat to the financial system.  Wall Street Criticized  Last year, Lubke criticized Wall Street’s control over the
OTC derivatives market, where credit-default, interest-rate and
other swaps are traded privately between banks and their
customers.  “It is simply unacceptable in today’s environment that the
design and structure of the OTC derivatives market can be
controlled by a handful of large dealers,” Lubke said at an
International Swaps and Derivatives Association conference in
Beijing in April 2009.  The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in July, requires most
swaps to be guaranteed by clearinghouses and traded on exchanges
or similar systems. Public prices may lead to compressed
differences between what buyers and sellers want to pay for the
contracts, known as the bid-offer spread,  Howard Chen , a Credit
Suisse Group AG analyst in New York, wrote in a Dec. 7 note to
clients.  That could be combated by increases in the rate of swaps
trading and greater market efficiency that come from the new
regulations, Chen said in the note.  ‘Both Ways’  Lubke is the latest regulator to be hired by Wall Street’s
most profitable securities firm. Bankers who worked at Goldman
Sachs have also become regulators.  “That street goes both ways,” said Geisst, author of
books including “The Last Partnerships: Inside the Great Wall
Street Money Dynasties” (McGraw-Hill, 2001). “They go from
Goldman to the Fed and they go from the Fed to Goldman, and
that’s the important part of it.”  Other firms also have ties to the central bank and the
government. Last week, Citigroup Inc., the biggest bailout
recipient among U.S. banks during the financial crisis, hired
former White House Budget Director  Peter Orszag  to be vice
chairman of its investment-banking division.  Dudley, a former partner at Goldman Sachs and its chief
U.S. economist for a decade, joined the New York Fed in 2007 and
then succeeded Geithner as the central bank’s president in 2009.
E.  Gerald Corrigan , who headed the New York Fed from 1985 to
1993, joined Goldman Sachs in 1994, where he went on to be co-
chair of its global risk-management committee and co-chair of
global compliance and control.  Corrigan, Friedman  Corrigan, 69, was appointed by the bank to help oversee a
business standards committee in May, a month after the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission sued the firm for fraud over
how it marketed a collateralized debt obligation. Goldman Sachs
agreed to pay $550 million in July to settle the suit.  Stephen Friedman , a former chairman of Goldman Sachs’
board, quit as chairman of the New York Fed’s board of directors
in May 2009 to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest
over his ties to the investment bank. Friedman, who served as
Goldman Sachs’s co-chairman with  Robert Rubin  from 1990 to 1992
before Rubin became Treasury Secretary, remains a Goldman Sachs
board member.  Geithner, who was named Treasury Secretary in January 2009,
hired former Goldman Sachs lobbyist  Mark Patterson  as his chief
of staff. Patterson recused himself for two years from any
issues that relate specifically to the bank, which he left in
April 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 