-- Goldman Sachs Won't Face Negligence Suit by Madoff Investor, Judge Rules
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-12-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/goldman-sachs-wins-dismissal-of-lawsuit-by-madoff-investor.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  won
dismissal of an investor’s lawsuit accusing it of negligence and
breach of duty after the man lost more than $15 million in
 Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme.  Jerome Goodman, who invested in Madoff’s fund through a
company that Goldman bought, can’t pursue a claim that the bank
owed him a duty to give reasonable financial advice and failed
to warn that he put too much money in the scheme, U.S. District
Judge  Freda Wolfson  ruled Dec. 14 in Trenton, New Jersey.  Goodman, 69, a retired owner of a collection agency,
claimed he would have divested if Goldman warned he was
“dangerously over-concentrated in a single investment” and
informed him of its own alleged internal ban on investing with
Madoff. Wolfson dismissed his claims for gross negligence,
negligent misrepresentation and breach of fiduciary duty.  “A gross negligence claim requires allegations of reckless
conduct that border on intentional wrongdoing,” the judge said.
Goodman “has failed to make any such allegations,” according
to the judge.  Goodman, who sold his business for $20 million in 1997,
invested most of his money in 1998 with Ayco Co. LP, the judge
wrote. Ayco advised Goodman to put $4 million into Madoff’s fund
in 1998 and increase it to $12 million in 2004, according to the
opinion. By 2008, he had invested $15 million, or 87 percent of
his wealth. Goldman Sachs  bought  Ayco in 2003, she wrote.  Investment-Advice Meeting  David Wells , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment.  Madoff is serving is serving a 150-year sentence in federal
prison for running the largest Ponzi scheme in history.  Goodman claimed that in 2004, his son met with an Ayco
employee and a Goldman vice president in the private wealth-
management group, Christopher Duda, to get investment advice. At
the Seven Seas diner in Great Neck, New York, Duda recommended
that Goodman keep $7 million with Madoff and put $5 million in
Goldman hedge funds, according to the opinion.  Goodman apparently “left all of his investment” with
Madoff, the judge wrote.  The case is Goodman v. Goldman, Sachs & Co., 10-cv-01247,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 David Glovin  in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 