-- Gulf Carriers’ Youth, 300-Plane Orders Squeeze Rivals
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l ,   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-12-16T17:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/gulf-carriers-use-youth-cash-to-squeeze-rivals-with-300-planes.html
Emirates, Etihad Airways and Qatar
Airways Ltd. say it’s their youth, not state aid, that has
allowed them to put the squeeze on western rivals with almost
300 plane purchases worth $70 billion in three years.  The expansion of the Gulf carriers has drawn the ire of Air
France-KLM Group Chief Executive Officer  Pierre-Henri Gourgeon ,
who says Dubai-based Emirates has 3.5 billion euros ($4.7
billion) less in annual costs because it is state-owned. Tilting
the playing field further, he says, is a treaty barring airlines
in Britain, France, Germany, Spain and the U.S. from receiving
credit guarantees for purchases from  Airbus SAS  and Boeing Co.  “I’ve got one secret weapon and it’s that I’m not a legacy
carrier,” Etihad CEO  James Hogan  said in an interview in
London. “If these chaps had been setting up an airline in the
last seven years they’d be doing exactly what I am.”  Government officials discussed a revision of the export-
credit rules during a meeting today at the Paris headquarters of
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, said
 Stephen Di Biasio , a spokesman for the intergovernmental body.
At stake is dominance of some of the world’s most lucrative
long-haul routes spanning Asia, Europe and North America.  While Air France says its Gulf rivals have lower taxes,
airport charges and social levies, the region’s three top
operators reckon ownership is irrelevant and that they pay the
same fees as older airlines, only at a lower rate because
they’re newcomers based in emerging markets.  ‘Not a Penny Since’  Emirates, the world’s biggest carrier by international
traffic, was founded 25 years ago with $10 million in government
cash “and not a penny since, contrary to what they’re all
saying,” said  Tim Clark , the airline’s president.  Emirates has ordered 155 planes since November 2007, all of
them wide-bodies for use on lucrative long-haul journeys. Abu
Dhabi-based Etihad, established in 2003, has placed contracts
for 100 aircraft over that period and 17-year-old Qatar Airways
has added 34. Air France, whose KLM unit was founded in 1919 and
is the oldest carrier still flying, has bought 25 planes and
 British Airways Plc , dating from 1924, just 11 regional jets.  What’s concerning western airlines most is how their rivals
are deploying the new, more fuel-efficient airliners to turn
their home bases into global hubs. Emirates, building a fleet of
90 Airbus A380 superjumbos, 70 more than any other carrier,
offers waves of flights converging on Dubai at similar times to
maximize opportunities to change planes as it seeks to strip
inter-continental traffic away from London, Paris and Frankfurt.  Lower Airport Fees  “If you’re going between the U.S. and Asia you can start
connecting through the Middle East and that’s certainly a
concern to the big European transfer carriers,” said Chris
Logan, an analyst at  Echelon Research  in London. “And when you
begin with a clean sheet of paper you don’t have the heavily
unionized workforces and overstaffing of the legacy carriers.
The Gulf operators are effectively long-haul low cost airlines.”  Oman Air CEO  Peter Hill  says Middle Eastern operators have
also shown a greater flair for quality and ease of travel.  “It’s all about commitment,” he said Nov. 9 in an interview
in London. “You don’t see the same connectivity, in-flight
entertainment and investment in seats among European carriers.”  Airport Access  Aiding the expansion are airport fees that undercut
Europe’s major hubs, with charges at Dubai International about
one-quarter of those paid by Air France at Paris Charles de
Gaulle and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  in Frankfurt, according to data
compiled by aviation consultancy  LeighFisher .  Airports in emerging markets are usually state-owned, with
charges often kept artificially low to spur the wider economy,
said Peter Mackenzie-Williams, a LeighFisher director. Gulf hubs
also offer better aircraft utilization, being less congested and
with fewer restrictions on hours of operation, Logan said.  Carriers in the Gulf region likewise benefit from lower
taxes compared with airlines in western Europe and the U.S.  Qatar’s company tax burden is the world’s second-lowest,
averaging 11.3 percent, according to the  ‘Doing Business’ 2011
report  compiled by the World Bank, while the United Arab
Emirates is fifth-lowest at 14.1 percent. That compares with
rates of 66 percent in France and 48 percent in Germany.  While social costs such as pension contributions also tend
to be lower in the Gulf, those savings are partially offset by
housing allowances and other grants to foreign staff. Emirates
pays accommodation costs for 95 percent of workers, says  Richard Vaughan , the carrier’s vice president of commercial operations.  Fuel Myth  Gulf carriers say it’s also a myth that the region’s oil
wealth means they have lower fuel bills.  Etihad buys kerosene on international markets, often paying
more in Abu Dhabi than at other airports, and engages in hedging
like other airlines, it said in a report in July titled “State
subsides -- the real story.” Richard Vaughan, head of commercial
operations at Emirates, said in a Nov. 9 interview in London
that aviation fuel in Dubai is “tankered in” from Singapore.  Air France’s Gourgeon says European and North American
governments are handing traffic to Gulf carriers through their
taxation and social policies and that taking steps to favor
local operators would be in the national interest.  Share Performance  “These companies are operating a service which is
essential for the rest of the economy,” Gourgeon said in an
interview in Paris. “When the activity of carrying somebody by
air is done by somebody from another part of the planet then the
interests are misaligned.”  Air France  fell  0.4 percent to 13.94 euros in Paris.
British Airways slipped 0.9 percent to 270 pence. The eight-
company  Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index  lost 1.2 percent, paring
its gains this year to 22 percent. Emirates, Etihad Airways and
Qatar Airways are closely held.  The availability of export-credit financing to Gulf-based
carriers has been the focus for the most recent clashes.  The  Air Transport Association of America  wrote to Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in October seeking a revision of
regulations to ensure a level playing field. The plea was echoed
by 24 U.S. and European carriers including  Delta Air Lines Inc. ,
Southwest Airlines Co. and British Airways, which said
guarantees should be limited to companies unable to raise
funding via commercial debt markets, excluding wealthier ones.  Islamic Finance  “It’s a distortion of commercial markets to use official
export credits to enable aircraft sales to credit-worthy
borrowers merely because conditions in commercial markets are
relatively unfavorable,” the carriers said in a statement.  Emirates finances 23 percent of its fleet through export
credit, 43 percent through operating leases and 20 percent via
commercial banks, with the rest from bonds and Islamic finance.
Investors and banks are willing to lend because of a $4 billion
cash balance makes the airline a “beacon” in the industry,
Clark said in an interview in London.  “These incentives were created by the Europeans and the
Americans to sell aircraft, so the ball is in their court,”
Clark said. “We’ll work with whatever we’ve got.”  A rule revision could be signed in the new year but
backdated to Jan. 1, said  Kostya Zolotusky , managing director
for financial services at Boeing, which is involved in the
talks. It’s not yet clear whether loan guarantees will be
extended to those countries currently barred from receiving
them, though the cost to existing recipients is likely to be
higher, he said yesterday.  Whatever the outcome of the talks, Western airlines will
struggle to match the Gulf’s appetite for expansion, said
Echelon’s Logan.  “The U.S. and European carriers are not irrelevant, but
they’re not that important anymore to the aircraft
manufacturers,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  