-- Liberal Foes of Tax Plan Threaten Middle Class: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2010-12-15T02:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/liberal-foes-of-tax-plan-menace-middle-class-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
What’s more important to Democrats
-- preventing appalling giveaways to the wealthy or protecting
brilliantly successful programs aimed at the lower-middle class?  Unfortunately, it looks like the former. This is the
critical week. If House Democrats scotch the tax-cut deal
because of their understandable unhappiness over the extension
of the Bush tax cuts for married couples making more than
$250,000 and the slashing of the estate tax, they risk hurting
their core constituency -- and in ways beyond what President  Barack Obama  (with former President  Bill Clinton  as his
megaphone) are highlighting.  The problem isn’t just that 98 percent of Americans would
have their taxes raised on Jan. 1, and that 7 million jobless
workers would lose their  unemployment insurance . (That lost
income would cost the economy about 600,000 jobs, according to
the  Council of Economic Advisers ). It goes beyond the potential
loss of a 30 percent cut in payroll taxes for the middle-class
-- a stealth stimulus that should have been undertaken two years
ago. If this month’s deal collapses, those elements would
probably get dealt with in early 2011.  No, the bigger problem is that the new Congress would
almost certainly let what’s known as the refundables slip
through the cracks. Obama knows this. I learned last week that
he told Vice President  Joe Biden  (his lead negotiator with
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell ) to pass the word that he
would reject any deal that didn’t include them.  Washington Refunds  A refundable is Washington-speak for a tax credit that
doesn’t just reduce tax liability, it actually goes into the
pockets of middle- and lower-middle-class taxpayers in the form
of refunds. The  American Opportunity Tax Credit , for instance,
is an Obama program worth as much as $2,500 a year for tuition.
The compromise extends the program from the Recovery Act. If the
compromise fails, millions of students won’t be able to go to
college.  The oldest and most significant refundable is the EITC. Any
time a commentator is tempted to utter the words “earned income
tax credit,” he fears the audience will fall asleep somewhere
between “income” and “credit”. So only the bravest -- or
those with multiyear TV deals that let them be complex for a
time on television -- would dare mention this longstanding anti-
poverty program on the air. The result is that a critical part
of the tax-cut compromise has barely been covered at all.  Helping Pay Bills  The  EITC  is a roughly $50 billion federal program that
helps more than 25 million working Americans pay the bills. A
family with two children, for instance, that earns less than
$40,000 a year is eligible for up to $5,000 back. The program’s
outlays far exceed welfare, now known as Temporary Assistance
for Needy Families. In fact, the 1996 welfare reform bill
succeeded largely because the EITC incentivized the poor to work
instead of sit home collecting a check. It’s about the same size
as the food-stamp program, though not nearly as well known.  Together, they have dented poverty more than any laws since
the enactment of Medicare and Medicaid in 1965.  If President Clinton could have found a catchier name for
the EITC, which he expanded greatly as president, he’d get more
credit for his accomplishments. (Yes, this was a problem for
that president, too). The name  Rahm Emanuel  suggested when he
was in Congress was the “Ronald Reagan Tax Credit,” after the
president who first put real money into it in the  1986 Tax
Reform Act . (Actually, former Democratic Senator Bill Bradley
was responsible for getting the EITC expansion in that year’s
tax bill.)  Emanuel figured that the name change would build bipartisan
support, but House Republicans were unamused and they rejected
the effort.  Seeking Applicants  The low visibility of the program has consequences. As many
as 7 million households are eligible and don’t know it. But
enrolling is easier than for food stamps or welfare. Tax
preparers simply attach a one-page form to tax returns. Not
surprisingly, a brisk business in so-called refund anticipation
loans has sprung up among tax preparers.  As part of the Recovery Act, Obama eliminated a marriage
penalty in the EITC that had long made it cheaper for couples to
file their taxes separately. This made the EITC consistent with
the broader  tax code  (where the marriage penalty had been axed
in 2001) and with the president’s efforts to strengthen
marriage, a precarious enough institution in the communities
most served by the EITC. The Recovery Act also expanded the
refund to include married couples with three kids (it had been
capped at two), a change that’s worth about $1,600 a year to
such couples.  ‘Toxic’ Provisions  This is real money for a struggling family, and money the
Republicans initially rejected in this month’s negotiations.
They don’t view tax credits as genuine tax cuts (a compliment
they reserve only for cuts in marginal rates). McConnell didn’t
include an extension of the EITC in his proposed compromise. In
fact, he and the rest of the leadership viewed anything
associated with the Obama stimulus bill as “toxic,” according
to a senior administration aide working on the issue.  But by accepting EITC extension in the compromise, this
anti-poverty program, cheap to administer and highly effective,
may end up surviving a  Republican Congress . The administration
designed the payroll tax reduction to be temporary, but the EITC
extension to be permanent. “People will have had it for two
years in the Recovery Act and two years in this compromise and
Republicans will be on record voting for it,” says the aide.
“We view this agreement as a way to get these tax credits more
deeply embedded in the tax code.”  Under the Radar  The administration is happy to have the EITC keep its
boring name and stay under the radar. During the debate over the
stimulus in early 2009, Republicans successfully deleted high-
profile programs by yelling on cable TV about colorful things
like condom distribution and grass on the National Mall. The
EITC, hundreds of times more expensive, received almost no
attention at all and survived in the final recovery bill. That’s
what Obama wants this time, too.  The bottom line is this: Senator Bernie Sanders, an
Independent from  Vermont , and Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Democrat from  Maryland , are right on the merits. It’s
ridiculous, for instance, to spend $25 billion for estate-tax
relief for 6,600 families. But if they and other liberals let
their outrage over the rich kill refundables for the working
poor, they’ll be hurting the very Americans they say they want
to help.  (Jonathan Alter is a national correspondent for  Newsweek 
and author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
views expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  