-- IBM Weighs Mix of Invention, Acquisition at Strategy Brainstorm
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-12-15T17:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/ibm-weighs-mix-of-invention-acquisition-at-strategy-brainstorming-session.html
Sometime later this month --
precisely when is a secret --  Sam Palmisano , chief executive
officer of  International Business Machines Corp ., will gather
his 15 senior vice presidents in the company’s walnut-paneled
boardroom in Armonk, New York, for an all-day brainstorm.  It’s the annual Global Technology Outlook, at which top
executives and scientists decide what ideas to chase most
vigilantly. Research chief John Kelly oversees the discussion as
eight other Ph.D. scientists present slides about half a dozen
trends the research team thinks IBM can’t ignore. The group
convenes at about 7:30 a.m., works through a lunch of sandwiches
and salads, and doesn’t quit until they’ve reached consensus.  Decisions made at the brainstorm shape which projects get
funded, which companies IBM will buy next year, and, for
investors, whether the company will extend its 26 straight
quarters of increased earnings per share.  “The numbers are compelling,” said Dick Glasebrook, a New
York-based managing director at the Straus Group unit of
Neuberger Berman, which owned 10.6 million IBM shares as of Sept.
30. “There’s a high priority, as a differentiating factor, in
focusing on research.”  IBM invested $5.8 billion in research and development last
year, 6.1 percent of revenue, compared with $3.0 billion, or 2.4
percent, at Hewlett Packard Co. That’s led to technologies such
as new microprocessor designs and an IBM supercomputer that will
compete on the ‘Jeopardy!’ quiz show next year.  The company counts on Kelly and his team for the most
significant innovations and augments their efforts with niche
acquisitions. Since Palmisano became CEO in 2002, IBM has spent
about $28 billion on deals compared with more than $43 billion
each for HP and  Oracle Corp .  More Than Invention  “We’re not wandering off into the weeds relative to our
strategy,” Kelly, 56, said in an interview. “Sam spends not
only a lot of money, but a lot of time on this subject.”  IBM’s 3,000 researchers play a role broader than invention.
At the brainstorm session and other forums, Kelly and his
scientists help forge strategy and deal plans. A year ago at the
meeting, they identified the digitization of health-care records
as a top priority, highlighting one gap in software that was
filled with a deal for Initiate Systems Inc. in March.  Kelly also sits on the committee that screens possible
acquisitions, along with M&A chief Elias Mendoza.  “They, more proactively than others, are really evaluating,
‘Is this something we need to go out and purchase or is this a
solution we can build’,” said Jeff Bistrong, a Boston-based
managing director at investment bank Harris Williams & Co. who
has sold companies to IBM.  Revenue Growth?  The strategy hasn’t led to stronger revenue growth or
stock-market performance than rivals. In the past eight years,
IBM has boosted sales 15 percent, while HP and Oracle have more
than doubled revenue. Since the start of 2002, IBM shares have
climbed 21 percent, as HP and Oracle have more than doubled.  Still, IBM’s 26 quarters of per-share earnings increases
outstrips the six at HP and five for Oracle. Investors have
started to reward IBM. Its stock has outperformed Oracle and HP
since the start of 2009, rising 73 percent through yesterday and
hitting a record high last month.  IBM fell 60 cents to $145.22 at 11:34 a.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading and had climbed 11 percent this
year before today.  The 59-year-old Palmisano was openly critical of HP after
it struck a deal to buy the data-storage company 3Par Inc. for
$2.35 billion, about triple the company’s market value before
acquisition talks began.  “I’m never worried about a competitor that doesn’t invest
in R&D,” he said in September.    Leo Apotheker , who took over as HP’s CEO last month, said
he plans to boost research spending at the company, which had
cut such investments under his predecessor,  Mark Hurd .  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Oracle, declined to comment.  Brainstorm Preparation  Planning for IBM’s annual brainstorm takes months of
preparation. Kelly, a 30-year IBM veteran with a Ph.D. in
materials engineering, starts over the summer. He and his team
meet with venture capitalists, universities and clients. They
cull the information and narrow to five or six broad topics.  “The chances of us being blindsided are greatly reduced by
this process,” said Kelly. “We scour internally, globally
around our research for opportunities, discontinuities and
threats.”  While IBM won’t disclose what it will discuss this year,
the company has been focusing on four areas -- emerging markets,
cloud computing, analytics and its Smarter Planet initiative, or
the idea that highways and electrical systems can be made more
efficient through monitoring with digital sensors. Sixty percent
of the research budget goes to those areas.  GTO Breakthroughs  The GTO, as acronym-happy IBMers call it, can lead to
breakthroughs. In 2003, participants homed in on software that
could collect and analyze information in real-time. Following
the meeting, “the mandate was just to build machines that have
the ability to sense the world,” said Nagui Halim, the
researcher tapped to head the project.  Halim and other researchers created InfoSphere Streams,
software that identifies and analyzes data with stream computing.
It was introduced as a product last year, helping its segment
increase revenue by more than 10 percent. The technology has
helped TD Securities develop an automated options trading system
and  Stockholm  predict traffic flows.  Cloud Acquisition  Last year, Kelly and his team flagged the growing role that
technology was playing in health care. Though researchers were
developing ways for hospitals and insurers to share information,
they still needed software to integrate various records. That
led to the deal for Initiate, whose programs identify duplicate
patient entries in different databases and consolidate them.  “We had quite a few research projects that had started in
health care,” Robert Morris, vice president of services
research, said in an interview. “We pulled them all together
and, when we did that, we started saying ‘We need more here.’”  In some cases, Kelly, who has been research chief since
2007, suggests potential targets. Researchers in IBM’s lab in
Haifa,  Israel , noticed XIV Information Systems, a local storage
company that can increase storage capacity as clients need it.
Kelly told the M&A committee about XIV and IBM pounced.  “We, working with M&A guys and our storage system guys
said, ‘Hey, here’s a company with some very interesting
technology, some very good people,’” Kelly said.  Long-Term Growth  Palmisano told shareholders in May that the company will
almost double operating earnings per share to $20 by 2015. IBM
will add about $20 billion in sales over that period from
investments in its four growth initiatives, he said, while
spending about $20 billion on acquisitions.  Research funding that isn’t spent on IBM’s four growth
platforms goes toward product launches, such as the newest
mainframe model, and exploratory projects, such as the
‘Jeopardy’ computer and an effort with candy maker Mars Inc. to
map the cocoa gene.  Often, research leads to a process or software code or some
other piece of intellectual property, which are all saved and
vetted by a governance board. Those deemed reusable land in
IBM’s “Asset Hub” -- an internal website divided into 17
industries, such as banking, and further subcategories, such as
financial risk. Consultants choose codes from an industry or
service as they start projects for clients.  IBM, which has spent about 6 percent of its revenue on
research for the past eight years, just completed its 2011
budget. Though the company won’t disclose specific figures,
Kelly said the company’s priorities are clear.  “Sam and the board put their money where their mouth is,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 