-- Kenyatta, Kosgey Named by ICC Among Suspects of Kenyan Election Violence
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-12-15T15:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/icc-names-kenyatta-kosgey-among-suspects-of-kenyan-post-election-violence.html
The  International Criminal Court 
requested charges of crimes against humanity be filed against
six Kenyans, including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , over
their alleged role in post-election violence in 2008.  Other summoned include Industrialization Minister  Henry Kosgey  and suspended Higher Education Minister  William Ruto , ICC
Chief Prosecutor  Luis Moreno-Ocampo  told reporters today at the
court in The Hague. Cabinet Secretary  Francis Muthaura , former
police chief  Mohammed Hussein Ali  and Joshua Arap Sang, a radio
presenter, were also identified as suspects, he said.  “The post-election period of 2007-2008 was one of the most
violent periods of the nation’s history,” Moreno-Ocampo said.
“These were not just crimes against innocent Kenyans. They were
crimes against humanity as a whole.”  Kenyatta, who is also deputy prime minister, and Muthaura
said they were innocent.  Fighting flared between ethnic groups in  Kenya  following a
disputed December 2007 presidential vote, leaving 1,500 people
dead and forcing 300,000 to flee their homes. The clashes abated
after President  Mwai Kibaki , an ethnic Kikuyu, signed a power-
sharing accord in February 2008 with then-opposition leader
 Raila Odinga , of the Luo group, who was named prime minister.  The Kenyan shilling weakened as much as 1.1 percent after
the announcement and was trading at 80.65 per dollar at 6:01
p.m. in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. A close at that level would
be the weakest since Dec. 1, according to Bloomberg data.  Obama Urges Cooperation  U.S. President  Barack Obama  urged Kenyan leaders to
cooperate fully and to carry on with changes they promised in
the power-sharing agreement, which includes overhauling the
police and courts and curbing corruption.  Kenyan  security forces have stepped up patrols across the
country and residents of the East African nation should “remain
calm,” Kibaki said today in an e-mailed statement. The ICC’s
call for actions to be taken against the six suspects are
“prejudicial, preemptive and against the rules of natural
justice, he said.  “The people who have been mentioned have not yet been
fully investigated as the pre-trial process in The Hague has
only but began,” Kibaki said. “They therefore cannot be judged
as guilty until the charges are confirmed by the court.”  Kenya, the world’s biggest exporter of black tea and
Europe’s largest source of cut flowers, is East Africa’s biggest
economy. Growth slowed to 1.7 percent in 2008, from 7.1 percent
a year earlier, as tourism, agricultural output and investment
declined because of the violence.  Economic Impact  The announcement implicating the finance minister in post-
election violence is unlikely to affect Kenya’s economy, said
Macharia Munene, professor of history and international
relations at the  U.S. International University in Nairobi .  “There may be a small dent but as a whole the economy
won’t suffer because this isn’t a surprise,” Munene said in a
phone interview. “This economy is very vibrant and it’s not
because of politicians. It has a momentum of its own.”  The ICC said that in the first case, Ruto, Kosgey and Sang
are accused by the prosecution office of being among the key
planners and organizers of crimes against supporters of Kibaki’s
Party of National Unity, or PNU.  In the second case, Muthaura and Ali allegedly authorized
the police to use excessive force and helped facilitate attacks
against allies of Odinga’s Orange Democratic Movement, also
known as the ODM, the ICC said. Kenyatta is accused of
mobilizing the Mungiki criminal gang to assault ODM supporters,
it said.  Grounds For Charges  ICC judges will now review evidence submitted by the
prosecutors, the court said. If they determine there are grounds
for charges to go ahead, they will “decide on the most
appropriate way to ensure their appearance in court,” it said.  Kenyatta, the son of  Jomo Kenyatta , leader of the country’s
independence struggle against Britain and first president,
called for the ICC process to be “free and fair” and said he
would prove his innocence. “We await the decision of the
judges,” he told reporters in Nairobi.  Muthaura rejected proposed ICC charges. “The suggestion
that I have done anything to warrant criminal investigation is
manifest nonsense,” he told reporters in the city.  Domestic Tribunal  Kibaki said the government remains committed to
establishing a domestic tribunal to deal with suspects linked to
the violence. The administration’s attempts to handle cases
within Kenya have been blocked by lawmakers, who rejected two
proposed laws to create a local court. That prompted Moreno-
Ocampo to open an investigation.  The  Kenya National Commission on Human Rights  released a
report two years ago naming 219 suspects of post-election
violence including members of parliament and Cabinet ministers.  Kenya is due to hold its next general elections in 2012.
Former United Nations Secretary-General  Kofi Annan , who mediated
a peace accord that ended the 2008 violence and is monitoring
its implementation, has said bringing instigators of the
fighting to trial is necessary to avoid a repeat of the clashes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 