-- Microsoft Updates Its Bing Software After Gaining Market Share From Google
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-12-15T21:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/microsoft-bing-search-engine-gained-u-s-market-share-last-month.html
Microsoft Corp.  updated its Bing
search engine today, aiming to build on U.S. market-share gains
last month as it chases  Google Inc.   Bing, which ranks third in the market, accounted for 11.8
percent of U.S. searches in November, up from 11.5 percent the
previous month, Reston, Virginia-based ComScore Inc. said today.
While  Google  remained dominant, its share slipped to 66.2
percent from 66.3 percent. Yahoo! Inc. remained second.  Microsoft  announced improvements to Bing at an event in San
Francisco. The company made its image-search feature easier to
use and integrated the mobile version of Bing with restaurant
services OpenTable and  GrubHub . Users can make a reservation or
order takeout without leaving the application. They also can see
panoramic views of restaurants.  Microsoft looks to gain an edge over Google with the new
features and boost its advertising revenue. The company also has
forged a deal with Yahoo to handle search on its sites. Earlier
this month, Microsoft said the company is increasingly confident
that the agreement will boost revenue.  Combined, Microsoft and Yahoo have about 28 percent of the
U.S. search market. Yahoo’s share inched down to 16.4 percent
from 16.5 percent last month, ComScore said today.  Facebook Deal  In October, Microsoft unveiled an agreement with Facebook
Inc. that lets searchers on Bing automatically see what their
Facebook friends have written about the topics they’re seeking
information on.  Google , meanwhile, is making its own
advancements. The company upgraded its search engine in
September to add Google Instant, a feature that gives users
results as they type in requests.  Microsoft is counting on gaining Internet traffic and ad
revenue to turn around its online-services business. That
division, which includes Bing, posted an operating loss of $560
million in the most recent quarter.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, rose 23 cents to
$27.85 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .
The  shares  have declined 8.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  