-- Inditex Drops Most in Seven Months as Profit Growth Slows in Third Quarter
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-12-15T17:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/inditex-drops-most-in-seven-months-as-profit-growth-slows-in-third-quarter.html
Inditex SA , the world’s largest
clothing retailer, fell the most in seven months in Madrid
trading after profit growth slowed in the third quarter.  Net income rose 20 percent to 551 million euros ($734
million) in the three months ended Oct. 31, according to nine-
month results reported today by the owner of the Zara chain.
Profit increased 68 percent in the first half of the year.  Inditex dropped 5.5 percent, the  steepest  intraday decline
since May 14. Operating expenses rose 13 percent in the nine-
month period because of costs related to store openings and the
start of its online shop, Inditex said.  “These figures confirm the slowdown scenario we expected”
for the second half,  David Pena Delgado , an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets, said in a research note. The retailer gets
about two-thirds of earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the last six months of the
year. Pena Delgado has a “hold” recommendation on the stock.  The stock was down 3.46 euros at 59 euros as of the 5:30
p.m. close of trading.  Inditex  has gained 36 percent this year,
while rival  Hennes & Mauritz AB  has advanced 21 percent.  Inditex, which owns eight brands, has accelerated store
openings in Asia to reduce its reliance on Spain, where about 30
percent of its stores are located. The retailer’s Massimo Dutti
chain opened its first outlets in South Korea this month, taking
the number of Inditex stores in the country to 27. Zara started
online sales in six European countries in September.  Cotton Prices  Apparel companies in Europe and the U.S. face rising prices
for raw materials such as cotton and synthetic fiber, as well as
higher labor costs in Asia. About half of Inditex’s production
is in Europe, 15 percent in Turkey and 35 percent in Asia.  The third-quarter profit beat the 542 million-euro average
estimate of 12 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market has become so used to Inditex beating
consensus,”  Simon Irwin,  an analyst at Liberum Capital in
London, said by phone. “There’s nothing to worry about.”  Inditex said it expects to reach the “top end of the
range” of its store-opening plan for fiscal 2010. The company
has 140 stores in China under five of its eight brands and said
it will add the remaining formats in the country in 2011.  Nine-month net income rose to 1.179 billion euros from 831
million euros a year earlier. Revenue gained 14 percent to 8.87
billion euros after the retailer added 300 stores globally,
bringing the total to 4,907 in 77 countries. Inditex’s 5,000th
outlet opened in Rome last week. In-store sales climbed 10
percent in local currencies from Aug. 1 to Dec. 12.  H&M Sales  Gross profit as a proportion of sales increased to 59.9
percent from 57.1 percent a year earlier.  The  gross margin  in the second half is expected to be
similar to that of the year-earlier period, Chief Executive
Officer  Pablo Isla  said on a conference call, reiterating
comments made in June. Inditex’s gross margin increase in the
first half was helped by purchasing from countries near Spain,
inventory management and currency shifts, he said.  H&M, Inditex’s nearest rival for sales in Europe, said
today that November sales rose 17 percent at local currency
rates and including value-added tax, boosted by the introduction
of a line designed by Paris fashion house Lanvin. That was the
strongest growth for that month since the Swedish retailer first
introduced designer collaborations in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  