-- U.S. Economy: Industrial Production Rises, Inflation Slows
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-15T21:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/industrial-production-in-u-s-rises-more-than-forecast-on-electronic-goods.html
Industrial production in the U.S.
increased more than forecast in November and consumer prices
slowed, indicating the recovery is gaining momentum without
generating inflation.  Output at factories, mines and utilities rose 0.4 percent,
the biggest gain since July, after a revised 0.2 percent drop in
October, a Federal Reserve report showed today in Washington.
The consumer-price index climbed 0.1 percent in November after a
0.2 percent gain the prior month, the Labor Department said.  Assembly lines are speeding up as business investment and
exports grow and consumer spending accelerates, helping to buoy
an expansion that Fed policy makers said yesterday isn’t strong
enough to reduce a  jobless rate  hovering near 10 percent. Price
increases that are below central bankers’ goal will boost the
case to maintain the Fed’s purchases of $600 billion in
securities through June to spur growth.  “The manufacturing sector continues to heal itself,” said
 John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets in Boston. “The outlook for business spending on
equipment and software remains very positive.” Fed Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke “is unlikely to withdraw accommodation until he
sees a clear upward turning point in core inflation and a
downward turn in unemployment.”  Stocks fell, dragging the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down
from a two-year high after a six-day rally left the gauge at its
most expensive level since June. Economists forecast a 0.3
percent gain in production, according to the median of 75
projections in a Bloomberg News survey.  Stocks Gain  The  S&P 500  declined 0.5 percent to 1,235.23 at the 4 p.m.
close in New York. Treasury securities retreated, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 3.53 percent from 3.48
late yesterday.  Factory production increased 0.3 percent for a second
month, the Fed’s report showed, led by a 0.9 percent increase in
business equipment, including computers, communications
equipment and semiconductors.  Rising international demand and the need to replace aging
equipment is a boon to manufacturers. Exports rose to a two-year
high in October, Commerce Department figures showed Dec. 10.
 Business spending  on equipment and software advanced at a 17
percent annual rate in the third quarter.  Broadcom Corp. , the biggest maker of chips for television
set-top boxes, yesterday increased its fourth-quarter revenue
projection to about $1.9 billion, the top end of an earlier
forecast range. Irvine, California-based Broadcom is making
inroads in the mobile-phone market, supplying radio chips for
handsets from South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co. and
Finland’s Nokia Oyj.  Extended Recovery  “We have seen now an extended period of time of recovery
in the components business,”  Paul Reilly , chief financial
officer of Arrow Electronics Inc., said yesterday at a
conference in New York. Melville, New York-based Arrow is a
distributor of electronic components and computer products to
industrial customers.  The need for truckers to replace aging vehicles has brought
improvements at Wabash National Corp. The Lafayette, Indiana-
based maker of semi-truck trailers has “nearly doubled” its
workforce this year, adding over 1,200 associates, chief
executive officer  Richard Giromini  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview Dec. 13.  “The industry has improved dramatically, demand has
increased and our customers are now feeling much more
comfortable placing orders to replace their aged equipment going
forward,” Giromini said.  Auto Production  Carmakers decreased output by 6 percent last month, the
first drop since August, even as demand climbed, indicating
production may rebound in coming months. Factory output
excluding motor vehicles, rose 0.7 percent in November, the
biggest gain since May.  Nationwide,  capacity utilization , which measures the amount
of a plant in use, increased to 75.2 percent last month, the
highest level since October 2008. The gauge averaged 80 percent
over the past 20 years, signaling there’s enough spare equipment
to prevent bottlenecks that would lead prices higher.  “We’re very far from getting close to stretching
industrial capacity,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist
at JPMorgan Securities LLC in New York.  The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey
called for a 0.2 percent gain in the consumer-price index. The
so-called  core measure , which excludes more volatile food and
energy costs, also rose 0.1 percent, matching the median
forecast.  Price Cuts  Retailers that are cutting prices are drumming up demand,
while those not discounting enough are struggling.  Best Buy Co. , the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, yesterday slashed its annual profit forecast amid
increasing competition from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target
Corp. Best Buy lost TV sales in the third quarter to “the large
discounters” that promoted the least-expensive models, Chief
Executive  Brian Dunn  said on a conference call.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders was unchanged in
December from a month earlier, indicating residential
construction will stay near depressed levels, a National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo’s index showed today.  Fed policy makers are concerned economic growth is not
strong enough to reduce unemployment, which climbed to a seven-
month high of 9.8 percent in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  