-- Instinct Capital to Limit Japan Fund's Size to Keep Lead as Top Performer
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-12-15T02:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/instinct-capital-to-limit-japan-fund-s-size-to-keep-lead-as-top-performer.html
Frederic Eechaute ’s  Instinct Japan
Opportunity Fund , the best-performing Japan-focused fund this
year, plans to stop taking money from investors once it reaches
$200 million to stay nimble and maintain its lead in 2011.  The fund returned 30.2 percent this year through November
by betting on the nation’s most liquid stocks and employing
short-term trades, Eechaute said. Assets have risen to about
$100 million from about $10 million of capital when it started
last December, and may increase to about $150 million by the end
of March through new allocations from investors including
pension funds and endowments, he said.  “We’re seeing a lot of money coming to us and we expect
appetite for Japanese stocks to recover over the next 12
months,” Eechaute, 34, a former senior analyst at  DKR Oasis
Management Co. , said in a telephone interview on Dec. 13.
“We’re short-term driven and that has allowed us to navigate
through the Japanese markets.”  Instinct Japan’s gain so far this year is more than twice
the 13 percent advance through November by the index that tracks
Japan-focused event-driven funds, and beat the 3.9 percent gain
by the  Eurekahedge Japan Hedge Funds Index , tracking 92 funds.
The fund ranks at the top among Japan-focused hedge funds so far
in 2010 year, based on the latest data from Eurekahedge Pte.  Instinct Capital Pty doesn’t plan to grow the fund’s size
to beyond $200 million, or double its assets now, to maintain
its pace, Eechaute said.  “We have been No. 1 this year, but we want to be No. 1
next year as well as the following year,” he said.  Targeting Liquidity  The fund employs so-called event-driven and long-short
strategies betting on companies in the midst of events including
mid-term business plans and earnings outlooks, according to
Stephen Good, who co-founded Instinct Capital.  The fund, which can be unwound in two trading days, targets
the top 250 liquid stocks in the  Topix index  of more than 1,600
companies, said Good. It holds stocks for an average period of
less than five days to limit risks, he said.  Instinct Capital opened a Tokyo research office in November
and has hired  Hiroaki Kamoshida , a former head of investor
relations at Mizuho Securities Co. as the head, Eechaute said.
He plans to increase staff in Tokyo to about five over the next
year as he relocates from Sydney.  Among the latest additions is  Chris Blight , the former head
of operations at Ramius Capital in London, Eechaute said. He
plans to hire a head of technology in February, he said,
declining to elaborate.  Hino, Ibiden  Eechaute and Good, who formerly worked in the Japanese
equity sales department at  Mizuho Securities , set up Instinct
Capital in July last year to run the new fund. They were among
an exodus of analysts and managers who started their own firms
to capitalize on investment opportunities following the worst
market rout since the Great Depression.  Among the stocks that contributed to the Instinct’s fund
performance this year was  Hino Motors Ltd. , a Tokyo-based truck
maker,  Daisuke Kitagawa , Instinct’s Sydney-based fund manager,
said in the same interview.  The fund began buying the stock at about 360 yen to 370 yen
on Nov. 8 after Hino announced its fiscal first-half profit.
That was even as earnings disappointed because the fund took the
view that the extension of a government-led incentive program
for truck-purchasing would benefit the firm, said Kitagawa.
Instinct sold the  stock  on Nov. 25 after the shares surged more
than 15 percent from its entry, Kitagawa said.  Ibiden  Ibiden Co. , a Gifu prefecture-based printed-circuit maker,
also contributed to the fund’s performance, Kitagawa said. The
firm revealed plans to start supplying its products to smart-
phone makers during the earnings analysis meeting following the
announcement, departing from its dependence on demand from Intel
Corp. and Nokia Oyj, he said. Instinct started buying the  stock 
on Nov. 5 and held it until Nov. 15, during which time Ibiden
shares rose more than 10 percent, he said.  The fund is up 36.71 percent since inception through
November, and has returned about 2 percent this month through
Dec. 13, Good said.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  