-- Lions Gate Woos Icahn Protege With Oscar Night, Swaps Stock to Derail Bid
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-15T21:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/lions-gate-woos-icahn-protege-with-oscar-night-swaps-stock-to-derail-bid.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. 
relied on old-fashioned Hollywood schmoozing, legal wrangling
and a stock deal with a friendly board member to fend off
billionaire  Carl Icahn ’s almost two-year hostile pursuit.  Shareholders of Lions Gate, producer of cable TV’s “Mad
Men” and distributor of the low-budget films “Saw” and
“Buried,” yesterday denied Icahn five board seats he sought.  The 74-year-old investor, who owns almost 33 percent, let
his $7.50-a-share bid for the Vancouver-based company expire
this week, after a New York judge let Lions Gate board member
and former Icahn protégé  Mark Rachesky  vote recently acquired
shares. To win his prize, Icahn will likely have to raise his
bid, said analyst  Doug Creutz  at Cowen & Co. in New York.  “They had a creative strategy that worked on a guy who
doesn’t take defeat very easily,” Creutz said. “They found a
lot of levers to pull.”  The defense was led by Vice Chairman  Michael Burns , a
former Los Angeles-based investment banker for Prudential
Securities. Burns, who has run Lions Gate with Chief Executive
Officer  Jon Feltheimer  since 2000, was one of the directors
Icahn sought to oust from the 12-member board.  Burns, 52, put together a united front of investors who
controlled 44 percent of Lions Gate’s stock, identified in
company filings as including Rachesky, other insiders and media
investor  Gordon Crawford  of Capital Research & Management Co.  The company is still vulnerable to a higher bid from Icahn,
Creutz said. “But give Burns credit this time.”  In a New York court, Icahn is still seeking to reverse the
debt-for-stock transaction that diluted his stake while upping
that of Rachesky, a supporter of management. Had the deal been
blocked, the vote would have favored Icahn,  Icahn Enterprises LP 
President  Daniel Ninivaggi  said yesterday in an interview.  ‘Flagrant Abuse’  “This is the most flagrant abuse of corporate power I have
ever seen,” Icahn said in an interview last week, before the
court ruling and subsequent shareholder vote. “And I have seen
of lot of bad things in my career.”  Lions Gate, run from Santa Monica, California, has dropped
about 10 percent since Icahn’s offer expired. The shares added 3
cents to $6.67 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading . They have gained 15 percent this year.  Key to Lions Gate’s defense was Rachesky, Icahn Holding
Corp.’s chief investment officer during 1990s takeover battles
with companies such as E-II Holdings Inc., the parent of
Samsonite luggage. He left in 1996 to start his own MHR Fund
Management.  Burns invited Rachesky to movie premieres and to an Academy
Awards ceremony, two Hollywood executives who work with Lions
Gate said in April.  Three-Way Deal  From 2006 to mid-2009, as Icahn was building his stake in
Lions Gate, Rachesky doubled his holding to about 20 percent
from 9.6 percent.  Lions Gate added Rachesky, 51, as a director in July of
last year, after Icahn sought and failed to place his son Brett
on the studio’s board. As he joined, Rachesky agreed to support
management’s candidates.  Burns said yesterday that he has refused to grant Icahn
authority that he sought beyond board membership.  “Carl has my home phone number,” Burns said in an
interview. “We have said all along that we are not opposed to a
board seat. We’re opposed to giving him super powers that other
board members don’t have.”  In July, Lions Gate exchanged $100 million of debt held by
Kornitzer Capital Management for new notes that were immediately
convertible, Canadian court documents show. Kornitzer, based in
Shawnee Mission, Kansas, sold the new debt for $105.6 million to
Rachesky, who converted it to stock at $6.20 a share -- an
effective rate of $6.50, counting the premium on the debt.  ‘Bitter Bidder’  The arrangement allowed Rachesky to lift his stake to
almost 29 percent at a price below Icahn’s expired $7 offer.
Burns received the votes he needed to deter Icahn.  “It had nothing to do with Mr. Icahn,”  John Kornitzer ,
president of Kornitzer Capital, said in October. “I made my
clients money and I got out.”  Joele Frank , an outside spokeswoman for Lions Gate, said
Rachesky declined to comment.  The deal was dilutive to shareholders, Icahn has argued in
court, seeking to overturn the debt swap. He is appealing a
Canadian court decision, which favored Lions Gate and called
Icahn a “bitter bidder.”  On Dec. 9, New York state Supreme Court Justice  James Yates 
denied Icahn’s request for a preliminary injunction to stop
Rachesky from voting the shares.  “The biggest losers are the shareholders of Lions Gate who
were deprived” the opportunity to receive a premium, Icahn said
in a statement yesterday after the vote.  Thwarting Icahn  Lions Gate has alternately sought to mollify Icahn and to
challenge him.  Brett Icahn , 31, an analyst with his father’s
firm, served as an early contact with the studio, according to
an executive with knowledge of the relationship who sought
anonymity because the matters are private.  In October 2009, the studio contracted with Massify LLC, an
online video company that Brett Icahn co-founded, to find online
short films that could be made into full-length movies. Massify
was to receive a producer’s fee, according an Icahn filing. No
projects were made under the agreement, according to the blog on
Massify’s site.  Lions Gate has used a range of tactics to thwart Icahn. As
he tendered for its convertible debt in 2009, the company
refinanced $66.6 million of it. To get better terms, some of the
debt holders agreed to not tender to Icahn, Lions Gate also said
in its filings.  Icahn’s February tender to increase his stake to just under
30 percent of the company for $6 a share was met by a warning
from Burns that a change of control could trigger a default in
the senior revolving credit facility.  ‘Stockpiling’ MGM  On at least two occasions, Lions Gate executives discussed
teaming up with Icahn to buy the struggling  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer 
Inc. film studio, which later filed for bankruptcy protection.  Icahn has alleged in both lawsuits that Burns and Rachesky
“plotted” during a 10-day truce in July to arrange the swap
with Kornitzer.  “Get me all and (Icahn) may leave,” Rachesky is purported
to say in an e-mail to Burns on July 15, according to Canadian
court documents. “I haven’t been wrong about him.”  Lions Gate filed its own suit in federal court in New York
in October, alleging that it was deceived by Icahn. Icahn was
attempting to “maximize his own benefit” by publicly
criticizing a Lions Gate-MGM deal while “stockpiling” MGM
debt, Lions Gate said.  ‘Not Going Away’  Icahn, whose $665 million offer to acquire  Dynegy Inc . was
accepted today, said in a Nov. 2 court filing that he owned $596
million in MGM debt. He has said that he disclosed his MGM
interest to Lions Gate.  The jousting isn’t over, said  Matthew Harrigan , analyst at
Wunderlich Securities in Denver, who advises clients to buy
Lions Gate stock.  “They’ve managed to stall him, but Icahn is not going
away,” Harrigan said. “He still has a large block of stock and
he still has an interest in merging Lions Gate with MGM. And if
he comes back with $9 to $10 it’s going to be a lot more
difficult for Lions Gate shareholders to turn him down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  