-- Iranian Bombing Kills 38 as Shiite Muslims Are Targeted Outside Mosque
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-15T16:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/iranian-bombing-kills-38-as-shiite-muslims-are-targeted-outside-of-mosque.html
At least 38 people were killed in
two bombings outside a mosque in Iran’s southeastern city of
Chabahar during the annual Shiite Muslim ceremonies of Ashura.  An additional 100 people were wounded in the blasts today
in Sistan-Baluchistan province, which targeted a procession at
the Imam Hossein Mosque, the official  Islamic Republic News
Agency  said. The Sunni Muslim Jundallah group claimed
responsibility on its website, al-Arabiya television reported.  A suspect who was the “main agent” of the bombings is in
custody, regional Governor Ali Bateni was cited by IRNA as
saying. “Equipment and facilities” seized in connection with
the blasts link the suspect to “advanced intelligence services
of the region and the U.S.,” IRNA reported, citing Deputy
Interior Minister for Security Affairs Ali Adbollahi.  Attacks have been increasing in the southeast, “where
loyalty to the regime in Tehran is very low, and claims of
discrimination, underdevelopment, severe restrictions and high
levels of military presence are compounding Iran’s underlying
ethno-national divide,”  Gala Riani , Middle East analyst for
London-based business intelligence and forecasting company IHS
Global Insight, said in an interview. “The tensions and
violence are the most visible backlashes against the regime.”  The blasts today went off at 10 a.m. and 10:30 a.m. local
time, IRNA said, citing Adbollahi. Police had identified the two
attackers, who detonated explosives before they could be
arrested, it said. Twenty-two of the dead have been identified,
and include three women and a baby, according to IRNA.  ‘Brutal and Intentional’  Parliament Speaker  Ali Larijani  condemned the “brutal and
intentional” bloodshed in a report carried by IRNA, saying it
was aimed at dividing the country’s majority Shiites and
minority Sunni Muslims.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  called it an “outrageous
terrorist attack” and a “disgraceful and cowardly act.  ‘‘The murder of innocent civilians in their place of
worship during Ashura is a despicable offense, and those who
carried it out must be held accountable,’’ Obama said in a
statement issued by the White House.  The world must condemn ‘‘and oppose all forms of
terrorism’’ and support people’s right to ‘‘live free from fear
and senseless violence,’’ Obama said.  Past Attacks  The worst attack carried out by Jundallah was a bombing in
October last year that left 43 people dead. That blast, and
others claimed by the group, targeted the provincial capital of
Zahedan. The one today took place south of the city, suggesting
a broadening of its operations, Riani said.  Still, ‘‘Jundallah’s attacks are typically carried out
several months apart, suggesting it either does not have the
capacity for a bigger war on the Iranian security forces, or is
not prepared to wage a bigger one,’’ she said.  Jundallah, Arabic for ‘‘soldiers of God,’’ is based Sistan-
Baluchistan, which borders Pakistan and Afghanistan and is one
of Iran’s poorest areas. The only widely known militant group in
the region, it says it seeks greater political rights for ethnic
Baluchis in the Persian-dominated country.  Iran has blamed the U.S., Israel, and the U.K. for previous
mosque attacks, accusing them of supporting Jundallah to promote
an insurgency by ethnic minorities and destabilize the Shiite-
led government. All three countries have denied the allegations
and the Obama administration added the group to its  list  of
terrorist organizations in November.  The 10 days of Ashura rituals, which climax tomorrow, are
observed by Shiites in countries including neighboring Iraq.
About 2 million people are expected to mark Ashura in Iraq’s
southern city of Karbala, where the imam, a grandson of the
Prophet Muhammad, was killed in battle in the seventh century.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 