-- Ireland's Bailout Fails to Revive Market for Bank Bond Sales: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-12-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/ireland-s-bailout-fails-to-revive-market-for-bank-bond-sales-euro-credit.html
Ireland’s bailout aims to wean the
nation’s financial system off European Central Bank life
support. Instead, the country’s lenders remain locked out of
debt markets, with no relief in sight.  Parliament votes today in Dublin on the country’s aid from
the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. The
rescue package includes as much as 35 billion euros ($47
billion) for the country’s banks, part of an 85 billion-euro
accord reached Nov. 28 to avert defaults.  With the government enjoying a voting majority and the
country due to run out of money next year, the rescue is set to
be approved. Yet Ireland’s yield  premium  to 10-year German bunds
is still nine times the average during the past decade. Irish
banks are growing more reliant on the ECB, a report last week
showed. Ireland absorbs a quarter of emergency ECB bank funding.  “I don’t think you can shift ECB reliance in the short-
term,” said  Niall O’Connor , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG in London. “We need to see a normalization of Irish
sovereign bond yields, before the banks will be able to issue --
and that’s not going to happen overnight.”  Irish-based lenders, including foreign banks operating in
the country, took 136.4 billion euros from the ECB in November,
up 4.9 percent from the previous month, according to a Dec. 10
report by the central bank.  Credit Deterioration  Irish banks are “clearly finding it difficult to wean
themselves from this support,”  Eamonn Hughes , an analyst with
Dublin-based Goodbody Stockbrokers, wrote in a note to clients
Dec. 13. “It is probably unlikely that these trends can be
reversed in the short term with further ratings downgrades for
the banks in the past fortnight.”  Fitch Ratings cut its assessment of Ireland by three levels
to BBB+ on Dec. 9, citing the cost of bailing out the banks.
Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said on Nov. 21 that the amount
of funds available to financial companies demonstrates the
“firepower that stands behind the banking system.”  Government bond yields help determine funding costs for the
debt of state-guaranteed lenders. Irish bonds have rallied since
the country applied for a bailout and as the ECB bought the
country’s securities, narrowing the extra yield investors demand
to hold Irish 10-year bonds rather than German bunds, Europe’s
benchmark, to 512 basis points from a euro-era record 680 basis
points on Nov. 30.  Locked Out  At those levels, Irish banks can’t afford to sell bonds and
won’t be able to lower their reliance on emergency funding
anytime soon, analyst said.  “The banks would ideally want to go back out into the
markets as soon as possible,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief
economist with Dublin-based securities firm Bloxham. “Judging
by current market conditions, I don’t see that any time soon.”  The bond market has been all but shut since April, when
 Irish Life & Permanent Plc  found buyers for 1.25 billion euros
of three-year bonds. Bank of Ireland Plc, the nation’s biggest
lender, broke the stalemate on Oct. 27, though it paid a
punitive interest rate price at 420 basis points more than swap
rates to offer 750 million euros of two-and-a-half-year notes.
That yield “left people very concerned about what was happening
to the banks’ net interest margins,” said O’Connor at Credit
Suisse.  European Central Bank council member  Yves Mersch  said
policy makers are working on a solution to reduce banks’
reliance on emergency liquidity measures.  “We clearly have the phenomenon that some banks are
dependent on ECB refinancing,” Mersch, who is also head of
Luxembourg’s central bank, told Zurich-based Neue Zuercher
Zeitung in an interview published on Dec. 11. “This is being
worked on at the moment and we will probably present a solution
at one of our next meetings.”  Crowded Out  Irish banks have 14.6 billion euros to refinance next year,
while Spanish lenders have about 85 billion euros of debt coming
due, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The outlook for
the Spanish banking system remains negative because
profitability will be “severely tested” as loan demand falls
and defaults and funding costs increase, Moody’s Investors
Service said on Dec. 13.  “One difficulty next year is the amount of funding that
banks across Europe will have to do next year, so there’ll be
massive competition,” said  Cambiz Alikhani , an investment
partner and head of fixed income at Iveagh Ltd, a London-based
investment firm that manages the Guinness brewing family’s
fortune. “It’s still unclear what Europe’s plan for funding of
its banks is.”  Refinancing Woes  Irish banks have the option of selling some units, aided by
possible government guarantees to share future losses, under the
bailout plan agreed last month. Moreover, the banks will ship 16
billion euros of extra loans to Ireland’s National Asset
Management Agency, in addition the 73 billion euros that the
agency had already agreed to buy.  With Ireland unable to borrow, banks won’t be able to
refinance their debts, a pattern which is likely to persist
throughout the euro area. Credit-default swaps on the Markit
iTraxx Financial Index of banks’ and insurers’ subordinated debt
rose to a 20-month high of 337 on Dec. 10, before falling to
314.5 yesterday.  “For as long as there is a rational concern about whether
the sovereign will default or have to restructure its debts, it
creates massive uncertainty about the senior debt of its
banks,” said Alikhani. “It’s difficult to see right now why
the debt markets would want to fund banks over sovereigns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  