-- Israel Seeks Security Guarantees Before Palestinian Border Pact, Oren Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2010-12-15T12:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/israel-seeks-security-guarantees-before-palestinian-border-pact-oren-says.html
Israel will insist on security
guarantees before agreeing on the borders of a future
Palestinian state or halting Jewish settlements, Israeli
Ambassador to Washington  Michael Oren  told Bloomberg News.  With the U.S. reviving shuttle diplomacy in the Middle
East, “the deeper our sense of security, the more flexibility
we can show,” Oren said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “Keep in mind that we are looking at a Palestinian
state that is going to be right opposite our major cities, right
opposite Tel Aviv, right opposite our major airport. We’re
taking some immense risks here.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration on Dec. 7 abandoned
an effort to revive direct peace talks between Israel and the
Palestinians. The administration had offered Israel 20 advanced
fighter jets as an incentive to freeze Jewish settlements in the
West Bank, a Palestinian demand.  Oren said the deal fell apart because Palestinians refused
to accept a settlement freeze that didn’t include Jerusalem.
Nevertheless, he said Israel still expects to acquire the
additional  Lockheed Martin Corp . F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, on
top of 20 already ordered. The planes “are very much on the
table,” he said.  The U.S. said last week that in abandoning direct talks for
now, it would revert to shuttle diplomacy. U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  dispatched special envoy  George Mitchell 
to confer with each side about their willingness to compromise
over borders and security to establish a Palestinian state.  Obama’s Adviser  Dennis Ross , Obama’s adviser on the Middle East, arrived in
Israel late yesterday, the Israeli daily  Yedioth Ahronot 
reported today, without saying where it got the information.  Ross will meet with top Israeli defense officials in order
to understand Israel’s security needs, the newspaper said. Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s spokesman,  Mark Regev , declined to
comment on the report.  U.S. officials said it is more feasible to achieve a peace
deal by agreeing on borders and security and leaving aside for
the moment the sensitive issues of settlements, refugees and
Jerusalem.  Oren said that security guarantees are paramount and must
be agreed upon before any deal over land.  To Israel, “settlements are a subcategory of territory;
territory is a subcategory of security,” the Israeli envoy
said.  The Obama administration has set a deadline for a peace
deal of next September.  ‘Not Defensible Borders’  While “two states for two people” is the Israeli
government’s goal, Oren said, those states “wouldn’t follow the
borders of the pre-1967 situation, because those were not
defensible borders.”  Following the 1967 Arab-Israeli War, Israel took control of
the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, the Sinai Peninsula, east
Jerusalem and the Golan Heights. The Sinai Peninsula was
returned to Egypt after it made peace with and recognized the
Jewish state.  Oren said Israel fears a “nightmare scenario” where the
country is attacked from the east, and is particularly concerned
about the porous border between a future Palestinian state and
Jordan. Israel wants “a continued Israeli Army presence along
that border. It could be phased. It could be reviewed every
couple of years to see how things are going,” he said.  Palestinian Refugees  Israel also couldn’t survive the return of Palestinians who
claim refugee status, Oren said.  “We can’t discuss security without discussing refugees,”
he said, referring to what he estimated at 8 million descendants
of Palestinians displaced with the creation of Israel in 1948.
“Their return would turn Israel into a de facto Palestinian
state.”  Chief Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat  said last month
that the Palestinian Authority would pursue a bid for
recognition of statehood at the United Nations Security Council
if talks broke down.  Oren said efforts by the Palestinians to seek unilateral
recognition of an independent state by the UN, South American
nations or others “is a disaster. It’s not going to bring about
security for anybody.”  Last week, Brazil joined Argentina in recognizing a
Palestinian state, and Uruguay pledged to do so next year.  Oren criticized the Palestinians as “great experts at
getting to ‘no’,” in peace talks. To change that, “someone
will have to go down in Palestinian history as the person who
made peace with the Jews,” and he hopes that person is  Mahmoud Abbas , president of the Palestinian Authority.  Erakat last week blamed Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  for “torpedoing the peace talks.”  Iranian Threat  On Iran, Oren said that Tehran possessing nuclear weapons
capability “poses an existential threat to many Arab regimes,”
not only to Israel, and said “the majority of Sunni Arab states
fear” Iran “more than Israel.”  Oren said a series of sanctions efforts have affected the
Iranian economy, not the nuclear arms program that the U.S.,
Israel and Europe suspect Iran of pursuing.  “We have not seen any impact on the Iranian nuclear
program,” he said, adding that Iran needs to understand that
Obama’s commitment to preventing Iran from acquiring any nuclear
weapons “is very deep indeed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Indira Lakshmanan  in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 