-- Israel Using E=Mc2 Knows All About Branding When Seeking China's Business
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-12-16T08:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/israel-using-e-mc2-knows-all-about-branding-when-seeking-china-s-business.html
Israel’s formula for boosting trade
to China is to hang at the Expo Museum in Shanghai. It’s E=mc2,
the  Albert Einstein  discovery that the government uses to
symbolize the virtues of its technology companies.  Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz  brought a reproduction of
Einstein’s Theory of Relativity, the original of which is at the
Hebrew University of Jerusalem, when he visited the Shanghai
Expo in May. The Shanghai authorities requested the copy for
their  museum .  “The manuscript will maintain the image of Israel, a
country that exports to China, as a center of innovation,”
Consul Jackie Eldan said in a phone interview. “This gift
translates into guan xi, which is important to the Chinese and
means good contacts, good relationships.”  Israel is looking to Asia as growth in the U.S. and
European Union remains relatively slow. Exports to Asia climbed
by more than 50 percent in the first 10 months of 2010 compared
with the same period a year ago, almost double the pace for
Europe and quadruple the pace for the U.S., the Jerusalem-based
 Central Bureau of Statistics  said Nov. 17. Exports make up about
40 percent of Israel’s gross domestic product, which was 395
billion shekels ($110 billion) in the first half of 2010.  Israeli companies need to expand sales beyond a home market
that has a population of only 7.7 million. Many of Israel’s
neighbors, such as Lebanon and Syria, remain technically at war
with the Jewish state.  About 60 percent of goods are sold to the U.S. and Europe
while 20 percent go to Asia, the  Bank of Israel  said in a
September report.  Water Purification  “Our exporters have to be searching for markets in a
growing part of the world which is obviously Asia, obviously the
two giant economies in Asia,” Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said on a conference call with reporters on Nov. 15.  Petach Tikva-based  Strauss Group Ltd ., Israel’s biggest
food company, announced in October that a unit had agreed to
market water-purification products in China.  Nice Systems Ltd .,
a maker of digital recording and analysis systems, said in May
that it would provide a security system to India’s parliament.  The Ra’anana, Israel-based company’s exports to the Asia-
Pacific region rose to $53.5 million in the first three quarters
of 2010 from $48 million in the same period in 2009.  In business meetings, “the Chinese thought we had an
advantage by being Israelis and they mentioned Albert
Einstein,” said Nice Chief Executive Officer  Zeev Bregman , who
started selling Israeli technology in China with a different
company in the early 1990s. “The Albert Einstein brand belongs
to the state of Israel, you know,” he said with a smile.  Einstein Centers  Steinitz pledged during his visit to set up so-called
Einstein Centers across China to provide services, information
and a physical base for Israeli companies doing business there.
Israel claims Einstein in part because more than 43,000 records
from the physicist whose work paved the way for the nuclear era
are housed at the  university  in Jerusalem.  The German-born Einstein, who became a naturalized American
citizen, was offered the  presidency  of Israel in 1952 by Premier
David Ben-Gurion. He declined.  The government is weighing spending more on trade promotion
activities in India and China, said Boaz Hirsch, deputy director
general for foreign trade in Israel’s  Ministry  of Industry,
Trade and Labor. Negotiations for a free-trade agreement with
India are underway, and a government committee, appointed by
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , is considering ways to boost
exports to China.  China Trips  Steinitz was joined by Environment Minister  Gilad Erdan  on
his China visit; Industry, Trade and Labor Minister  Binyamin Ben-Eliezer  made his own trip subsequently. Netanyahu’s office
said last month he plans to visit China, though no date has been
announced.  Still, Israel began its serious push into Asia only after
the global financial crisis, said  Eli Bitan , head of Tel Aviv-
based Bank Hapoalim Ltd.’s Hong Kong office.  Israelis “have been focused on one type of customer over
the last years, which is the U.S., and clearly they have to
change their mindset,” he said.  Israel has very close technology ties with the U.S. after
years of doing business there, said Hirsch.  “If you look at the Israeli high-tech sector, many studied
in the U.S., worked in the U.S., went public in the U.S,” he
said. “This is a whole infrastructure layer that we don’t have
in Asia and have to compensate for.”  Military Use?  Israel must also be careful when selling technologies that
might have a military use to avoid upsetting the U.S., said
Steven Popper, a senior economist at the Santa Monica,
California-based  Rand Corp .  “If Israelis are in a position to sell to the Chinese
technologies that the U.S. government and the U.S. military
consider to be particularly sensitive, they certainly run the
risk of harming relationships they have cultivated with the U.S.
and consider to be important,” Popper said by phone.  China increasingly sees Israel as a different avenue to
gain access to the newest technologies, said  Nicolas Pechet ,
managing director of the Global Intelligence Alliance Group,
Shanghai. GIA is a global strategic advisory firm based in
Helsinki.  He cited clean energy as an area with potential.  “China now faces massive challenges with this so it’s a
match made in heaven for Israeli companies and the Chinese,” he
said in a phone interview. “We’ll see huge growth in trade
between Israel and China in these segments in coming years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net 
 Gwen Ackerman  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  