-- Israeli Phone Investors Brace for Rivals as Government Boosts Competition
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   R o n i t   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-12-16T10:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/israeli-phone-investors-brace-for-rivals-as-government-boosts-competition.html
When Patrick Drahi spent more than
$700 million in the past year in the Israeli phone market, he
may not have bargained for major regulatory changes.  The investment made the French entrepreneur the biggest
shareholder in  Hot Telecommunication Systems Ltd. , Israel’s
second-largest fixed-line operator, and MIRS Communication Ltd.
Now, regulations that will make it easier for new companies to
enter the market are forcing him to put in place measures to
counter intensifying competition.  “We are not afraid of competition and we are confident
that we will stay ahead of the pack,” said  Yoram Mokady , vice
president for content and regulation at Drahi’s Hot. “But we
want the competition to be fair.”  Companies in Israel’s 29 billion-shekel ($8 billion) phone
market are concerned rules allowing new entrants to use existing
networks will result in an uneven playing field. In the next two
years, the government plans to let Israel Electric Corp. set up
a third fixed-line network that can offer high-speed broadband
services and lease space to smaller providers, award a fourth
mobile-phone license and permit about seven virtual operators.  Some telecommunication stocks have held up so far. Before
today,  shares of  the two fixed-line operators Hot and former
monopoly  Bezeq Israeli Telecommunications Ltd.  rose 47 percent
and 14 percent, respectively, in the past 12 months compared
with a 17 percent increase in the TA-25 benchmark index.  Mobile operators have suffered.  Cellcom Israel Ltd.  rose
2.2 percent in the period, while  Partner Communications Ltd. 
fell 1 percent, not including dividend payments.  Regulatory Risk  Cellcom fell 3 percent to 117.40 shekels at 11:46 a.m. in
Tel Aviv today, while Partner fell 0.3 percent to 71.99 shekels,
after financial daily Globes said the Ministry of Communications
may ask mobile-phone companies for further fee cuts to make it
easier for the newcomers to enter the market.  “The regulatory risk is at the top of the analysts’
agenda, and it’s at the top of our agenda too,” Bezeq Chief
Financial Officer  Alan Gelman  said in an interview. The changes
would be “disruptive in the short term,” he said.  Israeli mobile-phone companies have higher returns than
their peers in other countries.  Cellcom ’s annual dividend yield
rate was 11.1 percent and Partner’s was 10.5 percent. In
contrast, the U.K.’s  Vodafone Group Plc  has 5.6 percent,  France
Telecom SA  8.7 percent and  Deutsche Telekom AG  7 percent.  Expanding Services  The Israeli telecommunications market has proven attractive
to foreign investors such as Drahi. Hutchison Telecommunications
International Ltd.’s 51 percent holding in Partner was the
biggest contributor to the Hong Kong company’s earnings before
it sold the stake in 2009 for $1.4 billion. Israeli-born U.S.
investor  Haim Saban  was part of a group that sold a controlling
stake in Bezeq for $1.8 billion last year, making a profit.  Now, with the government aiming to bring greater
competition into the market and cutting costs for consumers,
companies are preparing to face the new entrants.  Drahi’s MIRS Communications says it will bid for the fourth
wireless license, upgrading to nationwide provider and giving
him a foothold in all local market sectors. Drahi, who owns 45
percent of Hot, a cable television broadcaster, voice and high-
speed broadband provider, may also seek approval to combine Hot
with MIRS, said  Eran Jacoby , head of research at DS Securities &
Investments Ltd.  “He is taking positive steps by trying to create a product
offering that is quite diverse,” said  Rami Rozen , head of
research at Harel Finance Ltd. “This will give him a stronger
standing in the market.”  Less Dependent  Partner, the second-largest wireless company, in October
agreed to buy Internet service provider 012 Smile Telecom Ltd.
to boost its fixed-line business and diversify services.  Partner’s merger will increase mid-term consolidated
earnings before interest by about 350 million shekels annually,
it said Nov. 9. The financial boost comes as the government
prepares to put in place next year a gradual, 75 percent
reduction in interconnection fees, the tariff charged to
customers when they call between networks.  The three leading mobile-phone companies are set to lose
about 930 million shekels in revenue annually as the reduction
goes into effect, analysts say.  Cellcom has also considered merging with its sister
Internet service provider Netvision Ltd. The controlling
shareholder in both companies is  IDB Holding Corp.   “As we published in our 2009 annual report, a change in
the current regulation to allow cellular operators to hold
international long-distance operators will allow us to consider
pursuing a business combination with Netvision,” said Cellcom
spokeswoman Galitt Tuchterman.  Customer’s Home  Such a merger would allow both companies to cut costs while
making services more competitive, said  Ori Licht , head of
research at Tel Aviv-based IBI. “Cellcom by itself is only
Cellcom. But once it merges with Netvision it will be in the
customer’s home,” he said.  Cellcom Chief Executive Officer  Amos Shapira  said the
company will “focus on cellular as the main source of our
business,” by adding retail and other services. “This will put
us in the best possible position ahead of the expected market
changes,” Shapira said on Nov. 16.  Wireless companies account for about half of Israel’s
telecommunications market. While operators have seen double-
digit growth since the late 80s, gains began to taper off in
2005 as the market became more saturated. Analysts expect the
mobile-phone industry to grow only 2 percent to 3 percent with
the changes.  The entry of MIRS as a full-fledged national operator and
the introduction of the virtual operators will cause the three
incumbents to lose as much as 20 percent of their market share,
said  Gilad Alper  at Meitav Investment House Ltd.  “The mobile-phone companies that have been focused on one
sector are now trying to expand their services so they can be
less dependent on cellular where the regulatory changes will
have quite a significant impact,” said Harel Finance’s Rozen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Ronit Goodman  in Tel Aviv at 
 rgoodman9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor on the story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  