-- Hitler’s Phantom Lurks in Paris Exhibit on Opera Architect
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2010-12-15T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/hitler-s-phantom-lurks-in-paris-show-on-opera-architect-jorg-von-uthmann.html
The first stop on  Hitler ’s surprise
visit to Paris, in June 1940, was the opera house.  When the janitor, still in his pajamas, was about to give
his early guests a guided tour, the Fuehrer cut him short: He
knew everything there was to know about the building.  Charles Garnier (1825-98), the architect of the  Paris
opera , is the subject of a delightful show at the  Ecole des
Beaux-Arts  where he had been a student himself. Amazingly, it’s
the first ever devoted to his life and work.  To make it snappier, the organizers asked the Canadian
stage director and designer Robert Carsen to lend them a helping
hand. He has done a splendid job.  Carsen presents Garnier’s early career in what looks like
an architect’s studio with display cases lined up on long
drawing tables. Their contents -- drawings, documents,
photographs, watercolors and caricatures -- demonstrate
Garnier’s many talents.  He was a brilliant draftsman and full of flamboyant ideas.
Garnier even wrote libretti for operettas with titles such as
“The Bear and the Pasha.”  That his father, a blacksmith, allowed him to pursue his
artistic dreams was due to the boy’s delicate condition: He was
too frail to work the bellows in the old man’s shop.  At age 23, Garnier won the prestigious Prix de Rome, which
came with a five-year stay in the Italian capital. The encounter
with Rome’s exuberant Baroque architecture marked him for the
rest of his life.  Indignant Empress  Back in Paris, he had a couple of boring government jobs.
An 1853 portrait by William Bouguereau shows a handsome yet
vulnerable young man. In fact, he was treated in a “specialized
institution” for a severe depression.  Then came the annus mirabilis. In 1861, Garnier won the
competition for a new opera house, beating 170 rivals including
Empress Eugenie’s favorite, Eugene Emmanuel Viollet-le-Duc, the
great restorer of France’s medieval architecture.  When the empress indignantly asked the winner: “What kind
of style is this? It’s neither Louis XV nor Louis XVI!” He
answered: “It’s Napoleon III, Madame.”  So it was. The opera house became the signature building of
the Second Empire.  On the upper floor of the exhibition, Garnier’s project is
spread out in all its eclectic glory.  Lusty Dancers  “Too much gold,” complained Viollet-le-Duc (whose project
is also on view). Others were shocked by the lascivious
sculptures adorning the façade: A furious prude hurled an inkpot
at the most unbridled, Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux’s “La Danse.”  The show not only allows you to study details of the
sumptuous decoration you normally miss. It also demonstrates the
thoroughly modern engineering and metalwork beneath the neo-
Baroque orgy of gold and marble.  The emperor didn’t rule long enough to attend the
inauguration of the building that came to symbolize his reign.
When the opera officially opened, in 1875, France was a republic
and Garnier in the doghouse with the new regime.  An official letter displayed in the show invites him to
pick up his ticket for the opening ceremony -- a mediocre seat
priced at 120 francs.  “Charles Garnier: An Architect for an Empire” runs
through Jan. 9, 2011, at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts, Paris.
Information:  http://www.ensba.fr  or +33-1-4703-5000.  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net . 