-- J&J’s Over-the-Counter Drug Plant Cited by U.S. FDA
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-12-15T23:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/j-j-s-plant-cited-for-violations-during-recent-fda-visit.html
Johnson & Johnson , the world’s
biggest maker of health-care products, was cited by U.S.
regulators over violations at a plant where the company
suspended over-the-counter drug production earlier this year.  J&J’s McNeil Consumer Healthcare unit failed to properly
track customer complaints and ensure the quality of Tylenol
Arthritis Relief, Benadryl Fastmelt Tablets, St. Joseph’s
Aspirin and Sudafed PE at its Fort Washington, Pennsylvania,
plant, the Food and Drug Administration said in an inspection
 report  released today. FDA staff visited the plant from Oct. 27
to Dec. 9.  Operations in Fort Washington have been suspended since J&J
withdrew more than 40 types of children’s pain and allergy
medicines on April 30 because of signs of contamination. Members
of Congress have investigated J&J’s handling of quality-control
issues as product recalls have mounted this year.  “The company has been working diligently to ensure that
our manufacturing operations meet the level of quality that
consumers and the FDA expect of us, and that we expect of
ourselves,”  Marc Boston , a spokesman for J&J’s McNeil Consumer
Healthcare division, said today in an e-mail.  J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, said July 20 that
the recalls and manufacturing halt would reduce sales by about
$600 million this year. The company reported $61.9 billion in
 revenue  in 2009.  Multiple Reviews  The Fort Washington inspection findings are the first
 released  since the FDA identified bacteria in raw materials,
dust and equipment in disrepair during an April assessment.
Inspectors didn’t issue a notice of violations after a June 18
visit to the facility, according to data obtained by Bloomberg
through the Freedom of Information Act.  Most of the issues cited in the recent report involve
complaints and data collected before the April recall. The FDA
is still reviewing the observations and isn’t in a position “to
characterize their significance,”  Christopher Kelly , an agency
spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  J&J declined 20 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $62.57 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company
has  dropped  2.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 