-- Japan Manufacturer Confidence Deteriorates First Time Since End of Crisis
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-12-15T02:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/japan-manufacturer-confidence-deteriorates-first-time-since-end-of-crisis.html
Confidence among Japan’s largest
manufacturers worsened for the first time since the end of the
financial crisis last year after a stronger yen eroded export
gains and the effect of government stimulus measures faded.  The quarterly Tankan  index  of sentiment at large
manufacturers dropped to 5 in December from 8 in September, the
Bank of Japan said in Tokyo. A positive number means optimists
outnumber pessimists. Sentiment is expected to fall to minus 2
in March, and companies submitted the strongest forecast for the
yen since data began in 1996, the data also showed.  Today’s report adds to concern that Japan’s economy may
contract in the fourth quarter, and buttresses the case for the
Bank of Japan to consider more monetary stimulus. Data for
October showed industrial  output  fell by the most since February
2009,  export growth  moderated and the  jobless rate  rose.  “Japan’s economy will stay at a standstill until the end
of the fiscal year” in March, said  Yuichi Kodama , an economist
at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co., Japan’s third-biggest life
insurer. “A trigger for the BOJ to ease further” would be an
appreciation of the yen past 80 per dollar, he said.  The median estimate of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a reading of 3. The deterioration in the confidence
reading was the first since March 2009. The financial crisis
faded in the second quarter of 2009 as banks recapitalized.  Stocks, Yen  Japanese stocks were little changed after the report,
having risen this month on signs of stronger U.S. growth that’s
also boosted the dollar against the yen. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average rose 0.1 percent to 10,325.89 as of 10:40 a.m.  The yen fell 0.3 percent to 83.93 per dollar, leaving its
gain for the year to date at 11 percent, the biggest among Group
of 10 currencies. Large manufacturers expect the yen to trade at
an average of 86.47 per dollar in the year through March, the
highest level since the Tankan survey included the yen-forecast
question in 1996, compared with the 89.66 predicted in September.  Fumio Ohtsubo , president of  Panasonic Corp. , the world’s
largest maker of plasma televisions, said last week that the
yen’s appreciation is making it tougher for the company to
compete with its South Korean rivals, such as Samsung
Electronics Co. The Korean won has risen 1.1 percent against the
dollar this year, and fallen about 9 percent versus the yen.  “When you look at the value of yen and the won against the
dollar, the yen has been gaining and the won has been
declining,”  Ohtsubo  said. “That makes it very difficult for us
to compete with South Korean makers in the U.S. or in Europe.”  Korean Competitiveness  South Korea’s unemployment rate unexpectedly fell to a six-
month low of 3.2 percent in November as the nation’s economic
expansion encouraged manufacturers to hire more workers,
Statistics Korea said in Gwacheon today. By contrast, Japan’s
jobless rate rose to 5.1 percent in October.  Japan’s gross domestic product is expected to shrink at a
1.9 percent annual pace in the three months through December,
according to a survey of 42 economists released Dec. 8 by the
Economic Planning Association. Growth was 4.5 percent in the
third quarter as incentives to buy cars and electronics spurred
consumer spending.  The government’s subsidy program to buy fuel-efficient cars
ended in September, prompting companies including  Toyota Motor
Corp.  to reduce production in October.  Stimulus Fades  “Companies will likely stay cautious about the outlook for
business conditions as it’s hard to gauge the level of domestic
demand following the end of stimulus programs,” BNP’s Kono said.  The yen’s advance against the dollar may also cloud the
outlook, economists said, even while the currency has retreated
from the 15-year high set in November.  Rohto Pharmaceutical Co. 
said last month that it cut its full-year profit forecast 7.4
percent, citing the strong yen.  “The yen is still staying at a high level, so it will
likely weigh on manufacturer sentiment,” said  Mitsumaru Kumagai ,
chief economist at Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo. The
yen’s appreciation against the euro amid concern about Ireland’s
fiscal woes is also weighing on sentiment, he said.  The Japanese parliament last month passed an extra budget
to fund a stimulus package aimed at fighting deflation and
combating the stronger yen. To foster growth, the Bank of Japan
cut its benchmark interest rate and created a 5 trillion yen
fund to buy bonds and assets, including real-estate investment
trusts and exchange-traded funds. It said yesterday it will
start buying the ETFs and Reits as soon as today.  ‘Minority’ View  Given the recent gains in stocks and declines in the yen,
“those expecting the BOJ to approve further easing measures at
the next meeting are now in the minority,” said  Naoki Iizuka , a
senior economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. Still, “if
the Tankan or other indicators show a clear deterioration, it
would open up the possibility of additional monetary easing.”  The central bank’s policy board is meeting on Dec. 20-Dec.
21 in their final meeting for 2010.  Still, stocks have risen this quarter and the yen has
retreated from a 15-year high against the dollar amid optimism
the Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing may help the global
recovery, boding well for Japan’s economy, said  Susumu Kato  at
Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA.  Large companies plan to boost spending by 2.9 percent in
the year ending March 31, more than the 2.4 percent planned
three months ago. Economists forecast a 2.7 percent increase.  “The U.S. economy is showing signs of picking up and
emerging nations have maintained robust growth,” said Kato,
chief economist for Japan in Tokyo. “There will be no need to
worry too much about the outlook for business and corporate
earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  