-- Japan Says `Ni Hao' as Brands Trump Diplomatic Tensions in China Takeovers
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-12-16T07:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/japan-says-ni-hao-as-brands-trump-diplomacy-for-china-deals.html
Japanese companies, largely
overlooked in China’s five-year, $182 billion overseas
acquisition spree, are set to become targets as falling
valuations increase the allure of brands and technology.  China’s stock  market capitalization  swelled about seven
times since 2005 to $3.8 trillion, almost closing the gap with
Japan, and its economy is set to overtake Japan’s as the world’s
second largest this year. While Chinese companies have been
buoyed by rising valuations and  cash piles , Japan’s benchmark
Nikkei 225 Average fell by a third in the past five years as
confidence in its economic policies waned.  “There is increasing interest from Chinese corporations in
buying technology in Japan, and I expect that interest to
develop,” said  Marcus Stein , Deutsche Bank AG’s co-head of
mergers and acquisitions for Japan.  Companies based in China and Hong Kong announced 44
acquisitions in Japan worth a combined $437.7 million since Jan.
1, the highest deal count in a decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s second-
largest bank by market value, is starting a merger advisory unit
in Shanghai, betting transactions between the two countries will
continue to increase.  Kenji Orimo, chief pattern designer at Japanese clothing
maker  Toray Diplomode Inc. , said he expects more companies --
including his own -- to become targets for Chinese buyers.  Morning Greeting  “The day may come in the near future when we will have to
start our morning meeting with ‘Ni hao,’” Orimo, 44, said in an
interview, referring to a commonly used Chinese greeting.  In July, 108-year-old Japanese apparel maker  Renown Inc. 
sold a 42 percent stake to Chinese rival  Shandong Ruyi Science &
Technology Group Co.  for 4 billion yen ($50 million). Renown
shares had lost about 60 percent in the two years to May 21, the
last trading day before the deal was first reported.  Higashiyama Film Co. , a film manufacturer, and consumer
electronics chain  Laox Co.  are among other Japanese assets
targeted by companies in China and Hong Kong this year. Hong
Kong is a special administrative region of China that retained
its own legal and financial system after returning from British
rule in 1997.  Suning Appliance Co., based in Nanjing, eastern China, said
Aug. 16 it planned to spend 159 million yuan ($24 million) to
boost its stake in Tokyo-based Laox. CITIC Capital Holdings Ltd.
and other investors bought a majority stake in Higashiyama Film
for 1.5 billion yen in June.  Territory Disputes  “Acquisitions by Chinese firms in Japan will increase in
terms of numbers and values in 2011,” said  Masaya Oowada , head
of merger advisory operation at  Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. ,
which advised Renown. “Japanese apparel makers and the food
industry will be targets.”  Chinese acquisitions in Japan defied territorial disputes
in the East China Sea that have strained diplomatic ties.
Chinese tourism in Japan has been hurt by tensions that flared
in September when a Chinese fishing boat collided with a
Japanese coast guard vessel near the disputed Senkaku islands,
according to  Japan National Tourism Organization .  Japan remains far from a top priority among Chinese and
Hong Kong companies and investors, which announced overseas
acquisitions valued at a combined $82.3 billion in 2010, a 37
percent increase from last year, according to Bloomberg data.  “While I expect more activity to come, there is still a
relatively long way to go before we see that activity
significantly increasing,” said Deutsche Bank’s Stein.  Resistance Fading  Still, the “sense of resistance” among Japanese
executives to selling out to Chinese buyers is weakening as
China’s emergence as an economic superpower persuades them of
the merits of deals, said Nikko Cordial’s Oowada.  Since China began gradually introducing a capitalist system
in 1978 after the death of  Mao Zedong , the economy has grown
 more than 90 times . The government has encouraged state-owned
companies to pursue acquisitions abroad to secure raw materials,
technology and brands.  Corporate deposits, a proxy for the amount of cash Chinese
companies wield, reached a record $3.5 trillion in September,
Bloomberg data show.  Japan, meanwhile, has stagnated since its bubble economy
deflated in the late 1980s. The Nikkei 225 has lost about 75
percent from its 1989 peak, and annual  gross domestic product  is
hovering around 1992 levels in nominal terms.  The Nikkei 225 rose less than 1 percent to 10,311.29 today.
The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, fell 0.5 percent to 2898.138.  “It’s our mission to navigate Japanese companies to the
entrance of China’s market through M&A,” said Toyoaki Kishihara,
president of  SMBC Nikko Investment Consulting (Shanghai) Ltd. ,
which is scheduled to start operations on Jan. 4.  Toray Diplomode’s Orimo, who’s been trying to hone his
skills by listening to Chinese-language radio broadcasts in
Tokyo since a trip to Shanghai last year, said he plans to start
taking private lessons.  “I don’t want to be just a soldier when a Chinese firm
acquires my company,” Orimo said. “I would want to get
involved in the new management by brushing up on my
communication skills.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  