-- Jetstar Challenges Singapore Air With Start of Budget Flights to Melbourne
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2010-12-16T12:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/jetstar-begins-budget-long-haul-challenge-to-singapore-airlines.html
Jetstar, the budget unit of  Qantas
Airways Ltd. , makes its first Singapore-Melbourne flight today,
marking the beginning of its challenge to  Singapore Airlines Ltd. 
on long-haul routes.  The carrier sold 210 tickets for the 8:50 p.m. flight,
including 24 in business class, Simone Pregellio, a spokeswoman,
said today. The low-fare airline will operate the daily seven-
hour flight using an Airbus SAS A330-200 that can carry as many
as 303 passengers.  Jetstar may base as many as four A330s in Singapore by the
end of next year, as it adds flights to Auckland in March and
possibly services to north Asia and southern Europe later in
2011, Jetstar Asia Chief Executive Officer  Chong Phit Lian  said
today. The carrier is touting fares 30 percent cheaper than
rivals as it seeks to lure travelers from full-service carriers.  “Competition will increase and this will put some pressure
on Singapore Air,” said  Kelvin Lau , a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Daiwa Institute of Research, who has an ‘outperform’  rating 
on Singapore Air. “There will always be people who will want
the cheapest fares.”  Melbourne Fares  Jetstar offers one-way flights to Melbourne from S$428
($327), including taxes and surcharges, it said in its e-mail.
The carrier’s passengers have to pay an extra S$20 if they want
to take check-in baggage, according to its website.  Singapore Air is running a promotion on its  website 
offering return flights to Melbourne from S$818, including
baggage, taxes and surcharges. Passengers buying these tickets
have to travel this month and return in late January.  Singapore Air, which operates 21 weekly return flights
between the city-state and Melbourne, welcomes and advocates
competition,  Nicholas Ionides , a spokesman, said in an e-mail
reply to Bloomberg questions.  Jetstar and AirAsia X Sdn. are adding budget long-haul
services in Asia as rising wages stoke travel. The move is a
break from the traditional low-cost model, pursued by Southwest
Airlines Co. and  Ryanair Holdings Plc , which focuses only on
short-haul flights of less than five hours.  AirAsia X, partly owned by  AirAsia Bhd.  and Richard
Branson’s Virgin Group Ltd., plans to about triple its fleet
over the next six years. The carrier flies to London, Australia
and Japan from its Kuala Lumpur hub.  Jetstar expects to receive Boeing Co. 787s from mid-2012,
David Hall, the head of its Australia and New Zealand operations,
said today.  Tiger Airways  Singapore Air’s budget affiliate Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd.
said it had no plans to begin offering long-haul services or a
business class because of the extra cost such a move would cause.  “Tiger Airways will stick to our successful model of
keeping things simple,” the carrier said in an e-mail. “The
most cost-effective way to grow is by replicating profitable
short-haul, single-class flights across the fast-growing Asia-
Pacific region.”  Budget carriers including Jetstar, AirAsia and  Tiger
Airways  are winning market share in Asia as they add capacity.
Such carriers accounted for about 22 percent of passengers in
the first 10 months of the year at Singapore’s Changi airport,
according to operator  Changi Airport Group . That compares with
12 percent in 2008 and 8 percent in 2006, airport data show.  “Asia-Pacific’s low-cost carriers are continuing to grow
and take share away,”  Derek Sadubin , chief operating officer at
Centre for Asia-Pacific Aviation, said in a Bloomberg TV
interview. “That’s really causing the incumbent or full-service
airlines to really consider their positioning.”  ANA, Thai Airways  All Nippon Airways Co., Japan’s largest listed carrier, is
working on plans to form a budget unit with a Hong Kong investor,
it said in September. Thai Airways International Pcl is teaming
up with Tiger Airways to form a budget carrier in Bangkok.  AirAsia , Southeast Asia’s largest discount carrier, said
last month third-quarter net income more than doubled as
passenger traffic rebounded with the region’s economy.  Tiger
Airways  posted a profit in the three months ended in September
after it flew 25 percent more passengers than a year earlier.  Rising travel and economic growth may help Asia-Pacific
airlines post combined profits of $7.7 billion this year, the
highest tally for any region, according to the International Air
Transport Association. The region is home to more than half the
world’s population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 