-- Jets Coach Rex Ryan Must Execute Reverse Play: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-12-15T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/jets-coach-rex-ryan-must-run-reverse-play-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
We’re about to find out what kind of
coach, what kind of leader and thinker  Rex Ryan  really is. The
answers will dictate whether his New York Jets are Super Bowl
contenders or pretenders.  The team’s success hinges on Ryan’s ability to execute a
reverse. Not the on-field kind, but the look-in-the-mirror
variety, the kind of honest self-evaluation that screams for
change.  For all of his preaching about self confidence and yes-we-
can, at this critical juncture the Jets, losers of two straight
games in which the offense failed to cross the goal line, seem
to be a portrait of Ryan’s bluster more than his belief.  It was the Jets whose strength and conditioning coach
tripped an opponent, a disgusting display of unsportsmanlike
conduct. That’s some indictment in a league that includes  Al Davis ’s Raiders, who’ve never done anything to dispel the notion
that their owner would condone just about anything as long as
the outcome is a victory.  Jets management at long last did its part in the much-
needed makeover, suspending  Sal Alosi  for the remainder of the
season, playoffs included, for tripping Miami Dolphins
cornerback  Nolan Carroll  as the rookie ran along the sideline
while covering a punt during New York’s 10-6 loss at New
Meadowlands Stadium.  Thankfully, the front office didn’t follow the lead of so
many professional sports franchises that put the onus of
punishment on the commissioner. No owner, general manager or
coach wants to be the bad guy, not when resentment, or worse,
rebellion, can result.  For Laughs  “There’s no place for it in football,” said Ryan, the
head coach and class clown. He wears wigs. He spews four-letter
words. He talks tough. Remember his introductory press
conference -- the one where Ryan boasted about you take out one
of our guys we take two of yours. Funny at the time. Nothing is
comical, however, when the offense can’t score, when the so-
called Sanchise quarterback looks more confused than ever.  The Dolphins linebacker  Karlos Dansby  blamed Ryan for
creating a culture that encourages bad behavior like the trip.  “The head coach, he opened a can of worms over there, and
now he has to fix it,” he told reporters.  It might be too late.  Ryan likes to crack jokes, not whips. He pokes. He prods.
Maybe he doesn’t know any other way. We’ll see.  He even tried to goad Mr. Monotone, New England’s  Bill Belichick , whose Patriots have adopted the flat-line demeanor of
their coach. Final score: Patriots 45, Jets 3.  Reflection of Coach  Ryan, to no one’s surprise, made a joke of getting
lambasted on national television. He led his players outside,
into the cold, for a mock funeral. Buried the game ball. His
players needed a game plan, not camera-pleasing stunts and
theatrics.  The Jets have the requisite talent to compete for a Super
Bowl championship. The question is do they possess the
temperament.  The team has become a reflection of its yakety yak coach.
Players talk a big game. They just haven’t played one in a
while.  Casual observers may see football as a sport where big
galoots knock each other around indiscriminately. It’s about big
bodies, yes, but it’s also about minds. Football, more than most
people realize, is a thinking man’s game. It requires more than
emotion, but even-temperedness, execution and evaluation.  Giants Model  Ryan ought to spend some time with New York Giants coach
 Tom Coughlin , whom critics labeled as too rigid. Lighten up,
they said.  Coughlin did lighten up. A smidgen. The Giants won the
Super Bowl.  It’s a delicate balance.  NBC analyst and former wide receiver  Cris Collinsworth  said
Ryan’s coaching style is “the NFL turned on its head.” In
other words, Ryan has been trying to reinvent what it means to
be the boss. Now he has to reinvent himself. And fast.  The schedule has the Jets heading to Pittsburgh, where the
10-3 Steelers await.  Duke basketball coach  Mike Krzyzewski , like Ryan,
understands the importance of conveying the confidence he has in
the players. Coach K, however, delivers the message without
bombast.  The measure of any coach is to coax the best out of his or
her players. The past two weeks the Jets production hasn’t been
commensurate with their talent.  The fix falls on Ryan, whose fan base and bosses are
anxious to see if the class clown can pass the season’s most
important test.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  