-- JPMorgan, Goldman Raise Bets Against Eisai as Drug Loses Patent Protection
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2010-12-15T09:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/jpmorgan-goldman-raise-bets-against-eisai-as-drug-loses-patent-protection.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. increased bets against  Eisai Co.  as the
Japanese drugmaker’s best-selling medicine, the Aricept
Alzheimer’s disease treatment, loses patent protection.  JPMorgan raised its short position for clients or itself to
3.7 percent of  Eisai ’s shares, worth $380 million, while Goldman
Sachs boosted short holdings to $130 million, regulatory filings
dated Dec. 13 showed. Morgan Stanley & Co. disclosed the third-
biggest position in Eisai. Short-sellers typically sell borrowed
shares, seeking to profit by repurchasing them at lower prices.  The transactions have made Eisai the most shorted Japanese
stock, ahead of trading company Sumitomo Corp., which has $542
million of shares shorted by investors compared with its 1.49
trillion-yen ($17.8 billion) market value, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Eisai is trying to develop new products to buffer sales
amid competition from cheaper copies of Aricept, the world’s
top-selling pill to ease Alzheimer’s symptoms. U.S. regulators
allowed India’s  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.  last month to begin
selling its generic version of Aricept.  The company’s shares gained 0.5 percent to 2,934 yen at the
3 p.m. close of trading on the Tokyo stock exchange. The  shares 
have gained for three days, reducing their year-to-date loss to
14 percent.  Takeshi Shimizu , an Eisai spokesman, declined to comment.  JPMorgan’s sales of Eisai stock were reported by JPMorgan
Whitefriars Inc., a London-based institutional investment
management unit of the New York-based bank. JPMorgan spokesman
 Brian Marchiony  declined to comment, as did  Sumiko Iwadate , a
spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  