-- Kennedy Airport Bomb-Plotter Abdul Kadir, 69, Sentenced to Life in Prison
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-12-15T19:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/kennedy-airport-bomb-plotter-abdul-kadir-receives-life-sentence-in-prison.html
A former member of Guyana’s
parliament was sentenced to life in prison for his role in a
failed plot to blow up fuel lines and tanks at New York’s  John
F. Kennedy International Airport .  Abdul Kadir was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge  Dora Irizarry  in Brooklyn, New York. Kadir and  Russell Defreitas , a
former Evergreen Airlines cargo worker at the airport, were
convicted Aug. 2 by a federal jury there. Defreitas, a U.S.
citizen and native of Guyana, is scheduled to be sentenced next
month.  Kadir, 59, Defreitas, 67, and their accomplices circulated
their plan to an international network of Muslim extremists,
according to evidence at the trial. The attacks were designed to
destroy “the whole of Kennedy,” Defreitas said in a taped
conversation heard by the jury. The airport is the largest in
the New York City area and is located in the borough of Queens.  “There can be no doubt whatsoever that the offenses for
which Mr. Kadir was convicted are about as serious as they come,
short of actual murder,” Irizarry said before sentencing him.  The plot, hatched by Defreitas in 2006, was foiled in the
planning stages with the aid of an informant, Steven Francis,
according to testimony at the trial.  The plotters conducted surveillance of the airport,
including videotaping its buildings, and sought expert advice,
financing and explosives, prosecutors said.  Engineer, Politician  Kadir was an engineer who advised on the technical aspects
of the plot, prosecutors said. Before entering parliament, he
was the mayor of Linden, Guyana’s second-largest town, after
Georgetown.  Kadir was arrested in 2007 en route to Iran. Prosecutors
said he was going there to gain financial and operational
support for the plot. Kadir testified at the trial that he was
traveling to Iran to ask for money for a mosque and to
commemorate the anniversary of the death of  Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini , Iran’s former supreme leader.  “Every unbiased and unprejudiced person knows that I am
innocent,” Kadir said at his sentencing today.  He testified that he sent reports on Guyana’s economy,
politics and military to the Iranian ambassador in Venezuela
beginning in the 1980s. He said the reports were based on
publicly available information and sending them wasn’t illegal.
He denied prosecutors’ suggestion that he was an Iranian spy.  Denied Plot  “I may have acted foolishly and said some things that
definitely were wrong,” Kadir told the judge at his sentencing
today. “But I contend that at no time did I ever join in
consciously, and have any desire to be part of, a plot that
would have destroyed people and properties of this country.”  The plotters also sought support from Abu Bakr, leader of
the group Jamaat Al Muslimeen, which had staged a 1990 coup
attempt in Trinidad that resulted in “numerous deaths,”
according to court papers.  The plot members’ ultimate goal was to reach Adnan G. El
Shukrijumah, who is wanted in connection with possible terrorist
threats against the U.S. and who is a member of al-Qaeda, the
Muslim terrorist group led by  Osama bin Laden , prosecutors said.  Kadir’s lawyers, in a letter to Irizzary on Dec. 1, sought
a sentence of less than the 40 years recommended by the
Department of Probation. They argued that Kadir had no criminal
record, that his involvement in the plot was limited and that he
had been offered a 15-year sentence to plead guilty to providing
material assistance to terrorism.  ‘Key Role’  Prosecutors said Kadir should get life in prison, arguing
that he played a “key role” in the conspiracy and lied
“repeatedly” under oath.  Defreitas compared the plot to terrorist attacks on New
York’s World Trade Center in September 2001 when two planes were
crashed into the towers.  “Even the twin towers can’t touch it,” he said in one
conversation that Francis recorded and jurors heard. “This can
destroy the economy of America for some time.”  Kadir and Defreitas will appeal, their lawyers have said.  Abdel Nur, 60, a citizen of Guyana, pleaded guilty in June
to providing support to terrorists. He was scheduled to be
sentenced Dec. 17, which has been changed to a status conference
to address his medical condition.  Kareem Ibrahim , a citizen of Trinidad, was granted a
separate trial due to a medical condition. A trial date hasn’t
been set yet.  The case is U.S. v. Defreitas, 07-cr-00543, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 