-- Kobe Bryant's Sponsorship by Turkish Airlines Provokes L.A. Armenians' Ire
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2010-12-15T18:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/kobe-bryant-s-sponsorship-by-turkish-airlines-provokes-l-a-armenians-ire.html
Armenians in Los Angeles will
campaign against  Kobe Bryant ’s sponsorship deal with  Turkish
Airlines  and are urging him to drop it, the western U.S. chapter
of the  Armenian Youth Federation  said.  Turk Hava Yollari AO, also known as Turkish Airlines,
announced that it signed Bryant, a guard for basketball’s Los
Angeles Lakers, to be a “ global brand ambassador ” yesterday as
it seeks to publicize the start of direct flights from Istanbul
to Los Angeles.  Armenian activists demand that the U.S. recognize the early
20th century killings of Armenians in Turkey as genocide.  California has 600,000-700,000 Armenian-Americans, “with
the majority being in Southern California,” Aram Hamparian,
executive director of the Armenian National Committee of
America, said in a telephone interview.  “That includes a lot of Laker Fans, and until now, a lot
of Kobe fans as well,” he said.  Los Angeles-born Armenian-American socialite and reality
television star  Kim Kardashian  urged her more than 5.5 million
followers on Twitter earlier this week to call on U.S. House of
Representatives Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  to schedule a vote on House
Resolution 252, which would recognize the Armenian deaths as
genocide.  Laker-Kardashian Union  Bryant’s teammate  Lamar Odom  is married to Kardashian’s
sister Khloe. The couple visited Istanbul earlier this year
while Odom played for the gold medal-winning U.S. team at the
2010 FIBA world championships hosted by Turkey. Bryant was not
part of the U.S. team. The Turkish squad finished second.  “Armenian-Americans hope that Kobe would balance what
clearly looks to be a profitable business deal with a strong
moral statement against Turkey’s violations of human rights,
including, of course, its ongoing denial of the Armenian
Genocide,” the Armenian Youth Federation said in a statement on
its website.  Bryant should drop the endorsement or back the resolution,
Hamparian said. “This is not simply a private firm,” he said.
“This is a firm that’s majority owned by the Turkish
government.”  Bryant is the highest-paid player in the National
Basketball Association, with a salary slated to increase to
$30.5 million per year by the 2013-2014 season, according to
Forbes. He signed a three-year, $83.5 million extension with the
Lakers in April, the magazine said. Bryant’s agent  Rob Pelinka 
didn’t return phone calls seeking comment this morning.  Turkey’s state-run airline is one of the  fastest-growing 
and most profitable in Europe. It also sponsors the European
basketball league and European soccer clubs FC Barcelona and
Manchester United.  TV Advertisements  The deal with Bryant is scheduled to last two years and
will include television advertisements in more than 80 countries
as well as billboards, print and online components, Turkish
Airlines said. Terms were not disclosed.  Bryant told CNBC Sports he had never been to Turkey. “But
all the guys on the team in the league who have been keep saying
it’s one of the hottest places to go,” he said.  Allen Iverson , 35, an 11-time NBA All-Star, currently plays
for Istanbul’s Besiktas in the Turkish basketball league.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at  bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 