-- Korea National to Buy Canadian Oil, Gas Fields From Hunt for $521 Million
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2010-12-15T04:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/korea-national-to-buy-canadian-oil-gas-fields-from-hunt-for-521-million.html
Korea National Oil Corp.  agreed to
buy Canadian oil and gas assets from Dallas-based Hunt Oil Co.
for C$525 million ($521 million) in the state-owned company’s
second overseas acquisition this year.  Harvest Operations Corp., acquired by Korea National in
October 2009, will purchase areas that produced about 11,720
barrels of oil equivalent a day in the third quarter, Harvest
said in a statement yesterday. The fields hold 52.9 million
barrels of proven and probable reserves.  The deal comes as Korea National completes its hostile 
1.87 billion pounds ($2.95 billion) takeover of Scotland’s  Dana
Petroleum Plc.  and is the latest in a series of South Korean
investments in Canadian oil and gas. Chief Executive Officer
Kang Young Won said Dec. 2 that after buying Dana the company
will focus on acquiring oil blocks rather than companies.  “Korea National is switching to acquiring fields, which is
cheaper than buying stakes in companies at a premium,” Cho
Seung Yeon, a Seoul-based analyst at HMC Investment Securities
Co., said by telephone today. “It has gained experience and
skills in developing fields after recent acquisitions.”  The South Korean company probably paid Hunt $9.80 per
barrel of oil equivalent, compared with $12 a barrel for Dana,
Cho said.  Korea National, based south of Seoul in Gyeonggi, bought a
50 percent stake in Petro-Tech Peruana SA of Peru for $450
million in February last year and paid $3.9 billion for Calgary-
based Harvest eight months later.  STX Energy Co. , a South Korean fuel supplier and explorer,
bought a natural gas field in August for C$152 million from
 EnCana Corp. , Canada’s biggest natural gas producer. State-run
Korea Gas Corp. bought 50 percent stakes in three Canadian gas
fields in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 