-- Anglo American's Kumba Says Chairman Quits Because Of Conflict of Interest
-- B y   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-12-15T11:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/kumba-iron-ore-says-lazarus-zim-resigned-as-chairman-with-immediate-effect.html
Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. , the unit of
Anglo American Plc disputing South Africa’s award of prospecting
rights over its Sishen deposit to another company, said Chairman
 Lazarus Zim  resigned as a result of a conflict of interest.  Zim, who has chaired Kumba since 2006, quit because of a
potential conflict with his duties and a business opportunity
he’s pursuing, the company said in a statement today.  He had already excluded himself from involvement in the
board’s handling of Sishen because of his relationship with
 Jagdish Parekh , the biggest single shareholder in Imperial Crown
Trading, which was awarded prospecting rights to the deposit.  In August, Kumba said in an affidavit submitted to South
Africa’s High Court that an application by Imperial for a stake
in the rights to Sishen was “fraudulent.” The rights became
available after Kumba customer  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. 
failed to renew them by a May 2009 deadline. They then reverted
to the government before 21.4 percent were granted to Imperial.  Zim’s links to Imperial made it “untenable for him to
remain as chair of Kumba,”  Paul Theron , managing director of
Johannesburg-based Vestact Pty Ltd., said today. Vestact manages
more than 1 billion rand ($150 million) for private clients.  Zim wasn’t immediately available for comment when Bloomberg
called his Johannesburg office.  Allen Morgan , senior independent
director, became interim chairman, Pretoria-based Kumba said.  Kumba said in March a nine-year supply deal from Sishen to
ArcelorMittal at 3 percent above production costs ended after
the steelmaker missed the deadline to renew its mineral rights.
ArcelorMittal said the decision could force it to close its
Saldanha mill, halt exports and fire as many as 4,000 workers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  