-- Namco Bandai Shifts Video Game Development to Japan After Flops
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i
-- 2010-12-15T05:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/namco-bandai-holdings-shifts-video-game-development-to-japan-after-flops.html
Namco Bandai Holdings Inc. , creator
of the “ Tekken ” and “ Ridge Racer ” video games, will shift
the development of new titles back to Japan after half of its
software was unprofitable last year.  “We found the quality and development speed of titles made
for us by the overseas studios to be lacking,” President  Shukuo Ishikawa  said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “Foreign
studios can still propose and develop games, but our Japanese
staff will control the process more closely.”  The Tokyo-based company, which has studios in the U.S. and
Europe, joins  Capcom Co.  in concentrating development of new
titles domestically after several major overseas releases failed
to reach the 1 million sales mark. Namco Bandai, which gets more
than 70 percent of its revenue in Japan, wants to increase
overseas sales to half of its total in the year ending March 31,
2016.  Last month, Namco Bandai said sales of titles for  Sony
Corp. ’s PlayStation 3,  Microsoft Corp. ’s Xbox 360 and  Nintendo
Co. ’s Wii consoles overseas will climb 56 percent to 5.9 million
units in the year ending March 31. Domestic sales are expected
to slump 14 percent to 3.3 million units.  Namco Bandai’s “Clash of the Titans” for PlayStation 3
and Xbox 360 sold 250,000 units as of Oct. 31, less than half
the company’s target of 700,000.  The game received a composite review score of 42 on the
website  Metacritic.com , compared with 91 for Microsoft’s
multimillion-selling “Halo: Reach” and 94 for Activision
Blizzard Inc.’s “Call of Duty Modern Warfare 2.”  Capcom  said in May it will entrust development of new
titles to its domestic teams and strengthen quality control of
overseas projects after its “Bionic Commando” and “Dark
Void” games struggled to win audiences. The Osaka-based company
counts on Japan for more than 65 percent of its annual revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshinori Eki  in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 