-- Namibia's Central Bank Lowers Its Benchmark Interest Rate 75 Points to 6%
-- B y   C h a m w e   K a i r a
-- 2010-12-15T12:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/namibia-s-central-bank-lowers-benchmark-interest-rate-by-75-points-to-6-.html
Namibia’s  central bank cut its
benchmark interest rate by three-quarters of a percentage point
to boost growth as inflation remains close to a five-year low.  The repurchase rate was reduced to 6 percent,  Bank of
Namibia  Governor  Ipumbu Shiimi  told reporters today in the
capital, Windhoek. The drop is the second in two meetings after
the bank reduced the rate by 25 basis points in October. It also
follows a cut in South Africa’s repo rate to 5.5 percent on Nov.
18.  The central bank “is of the view that a further round of
monetary easing is justified to mitigate the weaknesses in the
real sector and boost growth on the demand side,” he said.
“The subdued inflationary environment for the short to medium
term further provided space for monetary easing.”  Inflation in Namibia, the world’s biggest miner of offshore
diamonds and fourth-biggest uranium producer, accelerated to 3.4
percent in November from 3.2 percent a month earlier, which was
the lowest since  December 2005 , according to the central
statistics office. Inflation pressure is “very benign” and a
slowdown in economic growth in Europe is a threat to Namibia’s
economy, Shiimi said on Nov. 4.  Namibia’s currency is pegged to the South African rand and
the central bank generally follows monetary policy set by its
neighbor, Africa’s biggest economy. The South African Reserve
Bank has reduced its benchmark rate nine times since December
2008.  Mining Growth  The economy is estimated to expand 4.2 percent this year
and contracting 0.7 percent in 2009, Shiimi said today. The
mining industry continues to drive growth, he said.  “The growth in the mining sector was displayed in the
increased output of most minerals on an annual basis, including
diamonds, gold and zinc concentrates,” Shiimi said.  Namibia’s economy may grow 4.4 percent this, the
International Monetary Fund said on Aug. 25.  Foreign currency reserves declined to 10.2 billion Namibian
dollars ($1.5 billion) in November from 12.2 billion dollars a
month earlier, Shiimi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chamwe Kaira  in Windhoek via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  