-- Nets Acquire Lakers' Vujacic, Two No. 1 Draft Picks in Three-Team Trade
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-12-15T17:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/nets-get-vujacic-two-draft-picks-in-three-team-trade-with-lakers-rockets.html
The New Jersey Nets acquired guard
 Sasha Vujacic  and two first-round picks in a three-team trade
with the Los Angeles Lakers and Houston Rockets, adding assets
that may be used to negotiate a deal for the Denver Nuggets’
 Carmelo Anthony .  The Rockets and Lakers each sent the Nets a first-round
pick. The Lakers received forward  Joe Smith  and two second-round
selections from the Nets and the rights to Sergei Lishchuk from
the Rockets, and Houston acquired guard  Terrence Williams  from
New Jersey, the Nets said in a news release.  “This trade benefits our team in both the short and long
term,” Nets General Manager  Billy King  said in a statement.
“Sasha is a veteran NBA player who will add depth to our
backcourt rotation, while the addition of the two future No. 1
picks adds to our assets as we look to rebuild into a
championship contender.”  The Nets’ 2012 draft pick acquired from the Rockets is
lottery-protected, meaning it would be awarded in a future year
if Houston does not makes the playoffs. The pick received from
the Lakers, for 2011, is protected if Los Angeles is among the
worst 18 teams.  The added first-round picks may help Nets’ efforts to work
a trade for Anthony, an All-Star whose contract expires next
year.  The Nuggets have until the National Basketball
Association’s Feb. 24 trade deadline to deal Anthony or they’ll
probably lose him without compensation as an unrestricted free
agent after the season.  ESPN reported Dec. 12 that Anthony told the Nuggets he
won’t sign the $65 million contract extension he’s been offered
unless he’s traded to the New York Knicks. The Nets,who are due
to move to a new arena in New York’s Brooklyn borough in 2012,
are among the teams that have also negotiated with Denver for
several months.  Vujacic, a seven-year veteran, averaged 1.8 points in 4.9
minutes a game for the Lakers this season. Williams averaged 6.7
points, 3.6 rebounds and 3.1 assists a game for New Jersey,
while Smith averaged 0.5 points in four games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 