-- New York City Buses to Get Video Cameras, Recorders in $9.75 Million Plan
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-12-15T22:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/new-york-city-buses-to-get-video-cameras-after-9-75-million-plan-approved.html
United Technologies Corp.  will
install video cameras and recorders on New York City buses under
a $9.75 million plan approved today by the board of the state
Metropolitan Transportation Authority.  The company’s Bradenton, Florida-based UTC Fire & Security
unit will place cameras and digital video recorders on 426 buses
in Manhattan starting in the first quarter of next year, with
completion scheduled by 2012, according to  documents  provided to
the board. The contract includes an option for cameras for
another 1,150 buses.  The program, which may be expanded to include routes in
high-crime areas, is “essential to providing improvements to
the safety and security of the environment for employees and the
riding public,” the documents said.  “Video surveillance has clearly been shown to deter
criminal activity on transit vehicles,” New York City Transit
President  Thomas F. Prendergast  said in a  statement . “We also
believe that it will be extremely valuable in investigating
accident injury claims.”  United Technologies, based in Hartford, Connecticut, was
one of eight companies invited to present products for
evaluation, and was one of three to provide equipment for a
five-bus test, the documents said.  Losing Bidders  The company’s $9.75 million bid beat offers from Ra’anana,
Israel-based  Nice Systems Ltd. , which bid $20.4 million, and
Ottawa-based  March Networks Corp.,  which bid $7.12 million.  The contract replaces a prior agreement to install cameras
on city buses that was delayed when the previous contractor,
Integrian Inc. of Research Triangle Park, North Carolina,
“unexpectedly” went out of business, the document said. About
75 MTA buses are currently outfitted with cameras, said  Jeremy Soffin , a transit authority spokesman.  New York City Transit, an arm of the MTA, contracted in
2006 with Integrian to install closed-circuit cameras on about
400 buses to deter criminals and vandals for about $5.35
million, with an option to expand the program to another 560
vehicles.  About 2.88 million people ride every day on buses operated
by the MTA, the largest U.S. public transit agency, which also
runs New York City’s subways, the Long Island and Metro-North
commuter railroads, seven bridges and two tunnels.  UTC Fire & Security’s Interlogix unit will provide the
cameras, said Sarah O’Shea, a company spokeswoman. Interlogix
has provided similar products to public transit agencies in
Miami and Philadelphia, said President Bob Haskins.  “We’re excited to be able to provide this solution to the
city of New York,” Haskins said in a telephone interview. He
declined further comment on the contract, citing a non-
disclosure agreement with the MTA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 