-- New York City Plans Cut in Capital Spending After Warnings About Deficit
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-12-16T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/new-york-city-plans-cut-in-capital-spending-after-warnings-about-deficit.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
faced with the prospect of budget deficits, wants a 20 percent
cut in spending for construction and maintenance of city-owned
buildings and infrastructure.  Budget Director  Mark Page  asked agency heads to revise
their 10-year strategies for capital spending and report the
status of all projects with explanations for delays, according
to a Dec. 14 memorandum. Responses are due Jan. 5.  “We are actively seeking ways of diminishing city costs
for pensions and health benefits, and we are obliged to also
address the amount of the budget going for debt service,” Page
wrote. “We must reduce the plan for capital spending which
drives capital borrowing and its resulting debt-service cost.”  The release of Page’s directive yesterday came on the same
day that city Comptroller  John Liu  and state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  each warned that the city may confront larger deficits
in the next three years than Bloomberg anticipates. The
administration disputed some of their findings.  Liu said budget gaps may grow to $3.6 billion, $6 billion
and $6.6 billion in the next three fiscal years. Bloomberg’s
Nov. 18  financial plan  anticipated deficits of $2.4 billion,
$4.8 billion and $5.6 billion in those years.  The city’s fiscal year starts July 1. Its budget is about
$65 billion. New York’s capital plan for 2010 through 2019
anticipated spending $61.9 billion; $47 billion of that from
municipal funds.  That plan included $22 billion for schools; $13 billion for
water supply and other environmental protection; $9 billion for
bridges and streets; $4.6 billion for housing; and $3 billion
for prisons and other criminal justice facilities.  Going Deep  “There’s going to be some severe expenditure cuts
required,” said  Richard Saperstein , managing director of
 Treasury Partners  in New York, which oversees $10 billion in
assets.  The extra yield over Treasuries that investors demand to
buy city bonds will widen until officials identify how they will
close the deficit, Saperstein predicted.  “If we wanted to add New York City bonds, we would suggest
waiting, as a result of this information,” he said. The city is
“a very astute issuer that has a lot of respect in the
marketplace.”  New York City’s 10-year general obligation bonds are
yielding 3.96 percent, or 0.6 percentage point more than top-
rated bonds of the same maturity, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Paying Teachers  Liu and DiNapoli each based their estimated deficits on
unresolved contracts involving the city’s 70,000 teachers. The
administration may face an increase of about $900 million in
related costs during each of the next four years, Liu said.  “Relying heavily on predictions of labor contract
negotiations and consistently underestimated overtime costs
contribute to our budget gaps, especially when added to the
expected loss of state aid and rising debt,” Liu said in a news
release accompanying the  report .  The city may also exceed budgeted overtime by more than
$100 million each year, he said.  The administration has vowed that any increase in teacher
salaries will be paid out of savings in pensions or fringe
benefits, said  Marc Lavorgna , the mayor’s spokesman on budget
matters.  “The mayor has made it clear that we cannot afford any
further increase in teachers’ salaries without commensurate cost
savings, and their contracts are not subject to arbitration, so
their pay will continue under terms of the existing contract,
with no unanticipated increased cost to the city,” Lavorgna
said.  The comptroller’s office has overestimated overtime costs
in the past several years, he added.  Strapped State  The Bloomberg administration agrees with DiNapoli’s
assessment that the city’s budget deficit may increase due to
the loss of state aid and federal stimulus funds, Lavorgna said.  On Dec. 6, Page told the City Council that the 2012 budget
deficit may widen by $2 billion, to $4.5 billion, because cuts
in state aid may be greater than forecast. Lieutenant Governor
 Richard Ravitch , in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday,
said the state faces a deficit of about $14 billion its 2011-12
fiscal year, which begins April 1. Its  current budget  is about
 $135 billion .  The city has ordered about $1.6 billion in cuts during the
next 18 months, reducing the workforce by more than 10,000,
including more than 6,000 who will lose their jobs.  “The reality that we’re facing is that the future could
be considerably worse,” Page told the council members. “This
is something we are solemnly worried about.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net  and
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  