-- New York City Budget Deficits May Be Larger Than Mayor Predicted, Liu Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-12-15T18:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/new-york-city-budget-deficits-may-be-larger-than-mayor-predicted-liu-says.html
New York City Comptroller  John Liu 
said looming budget deficits in the most populous U.S. city will
be bigger than Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  anticipates.  Although the city experienced less economic turbulence than
most of the U.S. during the  recession  that began in December
2007, it faces budget gaps of $3.6 billion, $6 billion and $6.6
billion in the next three fiscal years, a report by the
comptroller’s office said today.  Bloomberg’s Nov. 4  financial plan  anticipated deficits of
$2.4 billion, $4.8 billion and $5.6 billion in 2012, 2013 and
2014. The city’s fiscal year starts July 1.  “While many have argued that the pension system is to
blame for rising budgetary constraints, it is merely one of many
costs that the city incurs,” Liu said in a news release.  “As we have found, relying heavily on predictions of
labor-contract negotiations and consistently underestimated
overtime costs contribute to our budget gaps, especially when
added to the expected loss of state aid and rising debt created
by our expanding debt service,” he said.  A separate report today by state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  also predicted that the city’s budget deficits may be
“significantly larger depending on the outcome of the state
budget, collective-bargaining negotiations and how the state and
city replace expiring federal stimulus funds.”  The state will have to reduce aid to municipalities to close
a more-than $9 billion deficit in the fiscal year beginning
April 1, Governor  David Paterson  has said.  Marc LaVorgna , the mayor’s deputy press secretary, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  The city gained 74,000 private-sector jobs, or about 6.6
percent of the national total, during the first 10 months of
2010, Liu said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Schoifet at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net  