-- New Jersey May Get $128 Million Refund From U.S. for Canceled Rail Tunnel
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-12-15T22:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/new-jersey-is-eligible-for-128-million-rail-tunnel-refund-lahood-says.html
New Jersey  will get a refund of
almost half the $271 million it owes the federal government for
canceling a proposed commuter-rail tunnel once the money is
repaid, U.S. Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  said.  LaHood agreed to return $128 million to replenish other New
Jersey transportation accounts depleted to finance the tunnel,
according to a letter to U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , which
the Democratic lawmaker released today. In the letter, LaHood
defended the Federal Transit Administration’s right to recoup
the U.S. aid New Jersey spent on the aborted project.  The board of New Jersey Transit, the agency that was in
charge of building the tunnel, voted Dec. 9 to hire the
Washington law firm  Patton Boggs LLP  at $485 an hour to contest
the federal bill.  Governor  Chris Christie , a first-term Republican, killed
the 8.8-mile (14-kilometer) tunnel on Oct. 27 because he said
the state couldn’t afford $5 billion in potential extra costs.
The tunnel was projected to double commuter capacity in and out
of Manhattan from New Jersey,  New Jersey spent about $600 million on the project,
including the $271 million the federal government wants back,
state officials said.  “The FTA is being fair and equitable in its treatment of
New Jersey Transit,” LaHood said in the letter, which was dated
yesterday. The contents of the letter were reported earlier by
the Associated Press.  Other Projects  If New Jersey Transit repays the money in full, the federal
Transportation Department will transfer $128 million back into
the state’s Congestion Mitigation Air Quality account, allowing
funds earmarked for the tunnel to be used on other projects,
LaHood said.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Lautenberg said he was pleased with LaHood’s proposal.  “I will continue to look for other ways to ease the
fallout from the governor’s ill-advised decision,” he said in
an e-mailed statement.  About 56 percent of residents supported Christie’s decision
to cancel the tunnel, according to a Rutgers-Eagleton poll taken
from Dec. 2 through Dec. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  