-- Nexen Leads Swaps Higher as Moody's Places on Verge of Junk: Canada Credit
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-15T05:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/nexen-s-debt-insurance-climbs-on-prospects-for-junk-status-canada-credit.html
Nexen Inc. investors  pushed up  the
cost of insuring the oil and gas producer’s debt this year by
more than any other Canadian company on concern it won’t be able
to avert having its debt rating cut.  The cost of hedging against losses in Nexen’s debt for five
years with credit-default swaps has risen 45 basis points since
Dec. 7 to 147 points, when Moody’s Investors Service said it may
cut the Baa3 rating it gave the Calgary, Alberta-based oil
producer to below investment-grade. That may lower the number of
investors who are able to buy the company’s debt, pushing up its
borrowing costs. Moody’s statement also triggered a selloff in
Nexen bonds.  If “Moody’s does go ahead and downgrade, you could see a
further widening out” of insurance costs, said  Jaimin Patel , a
Societe Generale credit analyst in New York who focuses on
energy companies.  Nexen  has $8.24 billion in outstanding debt. Standard &
Poor’s rates Nexen BBB-, one level above junk status. The
company said last month it’s planning to invest as much as C$2.7
billion ($2.69 billion) in 2011 and a lower credit rating may
make financing harder. Moody’s cited Nexen’s investment plan,
production delays and its high debt level.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  More Expensive  While other energy companies such as Talisman Energy Inc.,
Husky Energy Corp. and EnCana Corp. also recorded an increase in
the cost of insuring their debt this year, the cost fell by 50
basis points or more in the past six months as oil prices
recovered. Nexen’s debt is 22 basis points more expensive to
insure than it was six months ago.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Ontario sold C$600 million in
a reoffering of its 4.65 percent bonds due in June 2041,
bringing the total outstanding to C$3.75 billion. The debt was
priced to yield 82 basis points over comparable federal bonds.  Canada’s index of  leading economic indicators  rose for the
second straight month in November, led by increases in housing
and stock prices, Ottawa-based Statistics Canada said yesterday.
The index rose 0.3 percent, matching the revised gain from
October, the agency said.  Provincial Bonds  Relative yields on provincial bonds narrowed one basis
point to 52 basis points yesterday from Dec. 13, the smallest
gap in December, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data. Spreads were as high as 55 points earlier this month.
Yields rose to 3.37 percent yesterday.  The spread, or relative yields, on Nexen’s 7.5 percent
bonds due in July 2039 over the 3.5 percent Treasury maturing in
February 2039 widened to 287 basis points Dec. 10, the most
since Sept. 14, 2009. The spread was as narrow as 147 basis
points on April 22.  “Some institutional investors can’t hold non-investment
grade credit and some of them probably were starting to
liquidate their position,” said  Matthew Kolodzie , a credit
analyst at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets in
Toronto. “Looking at the metrics of the company, it certainly
doesn’t look like a non-investment grade. So taking that view
the bonds are getting good value there.”  In 2003, Nexen and Opti Canada Inc. got approval to develop
the Long Lake oil sands project. The operation, which has faced
some delays, is located in the Athabasca oil sands in Alberta.
S&P this week cut  Opti’s debt , which already had junk status, to
CCC- from CCC+.  ‘Some Disappointment’  Moody’s rates EnCana, Canada’s biggest natural gas
producer, and Suncor Energy Inc., the country’s biggest oil and
gas producer, Baa2.  “There’s been some disappointment in terms of the Long
Lake operations,” said  Michael Rao , a senior financial analyst
with DBRS Ltd. in Toronto who rates the company’s debt BBB, two
steps above junk status. “They’re not getting the kind of cash
flow that would have been expected out of Long Lake.”  Rao said that while Nexen’s debt levels are “high for the
current rating,” he maintained its rating in June because the
company is taking steps to improve them, such as selling its
heavy oil and chemicals divisions.  “We’re a little disappointed by the review itself,” said
 Tim Chatten , a spokesman for Nexen. “We’d still expect we’d
have some time with Moody’s to discuss what needs to happen. We
can maybe make suggestions as to what we can do and determine
whether that would be enough to maintain our rating.”  Chatten said Nexen doesn’t plan to issue debt next year as
it will be able to use the proceeds of its asset sales to
finance its investments.  Shares of Nexen have lost 11 percent this year, compared
with an 11.3 percent gain for the  Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index . The shares, which gained 0.6 percent to C$22.44
yesterday, have rebounded 26 percent since Aug. 24 along with a
23 percent increase in the price of oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  