-- Nigeria President Jonathan Plans Spending of $27.5 Billion in First Budget
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-12-15T17:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/nigeria-president-jonathan-plans-spending-of-27-4-billion-in-first-budget.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan 
proposed a 2011 budget of 4.23 trillion naira ($27.5 billion) to
parliament, 19 percent less than was approved for this year.  Africa’s top oil producer is basing its spending plans on
crude output of 2.3 million barrels a day and with an oil price
of $65 a barrel, Jonathan said today in his first budget speech
to parliament since he became president in May.  Next year’s planned expenditure compares with 5.16 trillion
in the current year, while revenue is projected at 2.84 trillion
naira, down from 3.18 trillion naira planned for 2010, Jonathan
said. The budget will produce a deficit equal to 3.62 percent of
gross domestic product, in keeping with the administration’s
promise to narrow it from 6 percent in the current year.  The government plans to “optimize capital spending” by
investing in infrastructure projects, including power and
railways, which will help create employment in Africa’s most
populous nation, he said. While the government is forecasting
economic growth of 7.85 percent in 2010, GDP growth is expected
to slow to 7 percent next year, Jonathan said.  The proposal suggests that “this year’s loose fiscal
stance will gradually be reversed as the electoral cycle comes
to an end” in the second quarter of next year,  Samir Gadio ,
emerging-markets strategist at London-based Standard Bank Plc,
said today in an e-mailed note. “This is positive news since
the current fiscal path would have been unsustainable in the
long run.”  Nigeria derives more than 80 percent of its revenue from
the sale of crude.  Jonathan, who succeeded President  Umaru Yar’Adua  after he
died, is seeking nomination as the candidate of the ruling
People’s Democratic Party in a presidential election scheduled
for April 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 