-- Nintendo, Canon ‘Fail to Act’ on Conflict Minerals
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-15T14:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/nintendo-canon-panasonic-fail-to-act-on-conflict-minerals-group-says.html
Nintendo Co. ,  Canon Inc. ,  Panasonic
Corp.  and  Sharp Corp.  failed over the past two years to ensure
their products are free of “conflict minerals,” amid a campaign
to end support for armed groups in Central Africa, a U.S.
advocacy group said.  The  Enough Project , based in Washington, ranked 21
technology companies on their efforts to certify mineral
purchases don’t support armed groups in the region, particularly
in the  Democratic Republic of Congo . The trade in illicit
minerals has helped finance more than 15 years of conflict in
the country in which 5 million people have died.  “Despite the significant attention in the media, statements
from governments and continued activism, Nintendo, Canon, Sharp
and Panasonic still refuse to acknowledge or deal with the
problem,” the group said in a report published yesterday.  Congo is Africa’s largest producer of tin ore and holds
deposits of gold, tungsten and coltan, an ore used in
electronics including laptops and mobile phones. Armed groups
and some members of Congo’s army support themselves by
controlling or taxing the trade in minerals, according to the
United Nations.  From April 2011, any U.S.-registered company buying gold,
tin ore, tungsten or coltan from Congo or any of its nine
neighbors will need to certify their purchases are “DRC-conflict
free,” under a U.S. law signed in July. Commissioners at the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission are scheduled to vote on
how the law will be implemented later today.  ‘Purchase Responsibly’  The Enough Project said its rankings are aimed at providing
consumers “with the information they need to purchase
responsibly.” The group wants to pressure companies “at the top
of the mineral-supply chain” to force their suppliers to stop
purchasing minerals that fund conflict, it said.  Nintendo, the world’s biggest maker of video-game players,
said it outsources the manufacture and assembly of all of its
hardware “and therefore is not directly involved in the sourcing
of raw materials that are ultimately used in our products.”  Any production partners that don’t meet the company’s
corporate social responsibility guidelines are required to
modify their practices, the Kyoto, Japan-based company said in
an e-mailed response to questions.  Panasonic, the world’s largest maker of plasma televisions,
considers a commitment not to supply materials from conflict
zones as part of its basic business contracts, Joe Tsuchiya, a
spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Ethically Responsible’  “We are focused on ensuring we work with ethically
responsible partners, and that those partners understand and
commit to the terms of our business contract, which lays out our
expectations of them in relation to responsible business
practices,” Tsuchiya said.  Canon, the world’s largest camera maker, may comment once
the company has reviewed the Enough Project report, spokesman
 Richard Berger  said by phone from the company’s headquarters in
Tokyo today. Sharp public relations officer  Miyuki Nakayama  said
the company may comment later when contacted today in Tokyo,
Japan. Sharp is Japan’s biggest manufacturer of solar panels.  Efforts to clean up the trade in conflict minerals include
tracing projects by industry groups and due-diligence guidelines
created by the UN and the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development. A meeting of 11 Central African heads of state
today in Lusaka,  Zambia , will discuss new monitoring and
evaluation systems for the mineral trade in the region.  Mining Suspended  Congolese President  Joseph Kabila  said today a government
decision in September to suspend most mining in the North Kivu,
South Kivu and Maniema provinces was aimed at blocking access to
minerals that fund conflict.  “Illegal exploitation of mineral resources has led to
funding of illegal groups and that is the reason we suspended
mining,” Kabila said at the summit in Lusaka.  The Enough Project ranked electronics companies based on
their support for these efforts, as well as on their progress
tracing and auditing their supply chains.  Hewlett-Packard Co. , the world’s largest technology company
by revenue, topped the rankings “for its progressive stance on
legislation and certification,” Enough said.  Enough said it planned to update the rankings regularly and
called for other industries that use similar minerals, including
the automobile and jewelry industries, to act.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 