-- No Emerging-Market Bears Unsettles Investors Shunning Conformity
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-12-15T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/no-more-bears-for-emerging-markets-unsettles-investors-shunning-conformity.html
Individual investors are pouring
money into emerging-market stocks at the fastest pace since 2007
as the biggest  rally  in 16 years spurs three of the world’s
largest banks to predict shares will hit record highs next year.  The last time investors were this bullish, the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index  sank 11 percent in three months, data
compiled by EPFR Global and Bloomberg show. The gauge trades for
2 times net assets, within 4 percent of the most  expensive  level
on record versus the  MSCI World Index  of developed-nation
shares, according to MSCI Inc.  “After all this money has flooded in, with everyone in
love with them and all the euphoria surrounding them, it’s hard
to find fundamental value,” said Harris Associates LP’s  David Herro , who was named international stock fund manager of the
decade this year by Morningstar Inc. “Growth in emerging
markets is greatly helping the world, but you can overpay for it
and that’s what’s happening.”  Herro, whose $6 billion  Oakmark International Fund  in
Chicago beat 82 percent of peers this year, has reduced
emerging-market stocks to about 4 percent of holdings from more
than 20 percent in the late 1990s as inflation spurs China and
India to raise interest rates and Thailand and Brazil to boost
taxes on international investors. Moving away from the fastest-
expanding economies puts him at odds with strategists from UBS
AG to Citigroup Inc.  Jack Ablin , the chief investment officer at Harris Private
Bank who said emerging-market stocks were too expensive a month
before they peaked in 2007, favors shares of U.S. companies that
sell to developing nations.  Coca Cola, Colgate  Coca-Cola Co. , the Atlanta-based beverage maker, is valued
at an 18 percent discount to the  MSCI Emerging Markets Consumer
Staples Index  after trading at an average premium of 74 percent
since 1995, price-earnings ratios compiled by Bloomberg show.
New York-based  Colgate-Palmolive Co. , the world’s largest
toothpaste maker, trades at a 25 percent discount to the
emerging consumer stock gauge, compared with a historical
premium of 70 percent.  Both companies get about 50 percent of their  operating
income  from emerging markets, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Yes I believe that the emerging economies will outpace
the developed world,” said Ablin, who helps oversee about $55
billion at the unit of Canada’s BMO Financial Group. “But I
still don’t want to chase these valuations because a lot of
optimism is priced in.”  Bullish Strategists  Emerging-market stock strategists at UBS, Citigroup,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley
are more optimistic than their counterparts following the U.S.
and Europe.  The average of five estimates for the MSCI index next year
is 1,463, or 30 percent higher than yesterday’s level and 9.3
percent above the all-time closing high on Oct. 29, 2007.
Strategists are calling for a 9.9 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and a 14 percent advance for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, according to the average of estimates in Bloomberg
surveys.  “There’s a growing realization that in some ways emerging
markets are a safe place to be,” said  Mark Mobius , who oversees
about $34 billion as executive chairman of Templeton Emerging
Markets Group. “I’m quite optimistic.”  Lower Debt  The MSCI emerging-market index has surged 136 percent from
its March 2009 low as developing economies exited the global
recession in better shape than advanced countries by almost
every measure. Government debt will probably amount to 37
percent of emerging-market gross domestic product next year and
budget deficits will be 2.9 percent, compared with levels of 101
percent and 6.7 percent in advanced nations, the Washington-
based International Monetary Fund predicts.  Emerging economies may expand 6.4 percent in 2011, almost
three times the 2.2 percent rate for developed nations, the
fund’s October forecasts show. Developing nations are growing
faster partly because rising consumer demand at home has reduced
reliance on exports to the U.S. and Europe, Goldman Sachs Asset
Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said in a Dec. 6 interview with
Bloomberg Television.  Faster economies have helped emerging-market companies find
more  profitable  expansion opportunities than developed-nation
firms. The return on equity for companies in the MSCI gauge for
developing nations has climbed from 10 percent at the end of
last year to 14 percent, or about 3 percentage points higher
than in the  MSCI World  index.  ‘Heavy Inflows’  Emerging-market equity mutual funds are attracting money at
an accelerating pace even after gains in the  MSCI emerging-
markets index  slowed to 13 percent this year from 75 percent in
2009. Inflows from individuals into funds during the past three
months topped $12 billion, the highest level since the three-
month period ended December 2007, according to data compiled by
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR.  “Heavy inflows of equity capital into emerging markets
suggest a more cautious stance is appropriate,”  Ian Scott , the
London-based global equity strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
wrote in a Dec. 5 research report. He cut developing-nation
stocks to “underweight” from “overweight,” saying they’re
vulnerable to rising borrowing costs and capital controls.  China’s central bank raised benchmark lending and deposit
rates in October for the first time since 2007 and Indian policy
makers have lifted  interest rates  six times in 2010.  ‘Late to the Party’  Brazil  raised taxes on foreign investments in fixed-income
securities this year.  Thailand  removed a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds.
Countries from  Taiwan  to South Korea have intervened in foreign-
exchange markets to stem currency gains, according to traders.  Herro, whose Oakmark International Fund climbed 16 percent
this year, said he’s finding some of his best investment
opportunities in  Japan  even as the IMF forecasts economic growth
of 1.5 percent next year.  His fund owns shares of Tokyo-based  Daiwa Securities Group
Inc. , which trades at a 66 percent discount to Beijing-based
 China Construction Bank Corp.  and is 69 percent cheaper than
 Banco Bradesco SA , based in Osasco, Brazil, according to price-
to-book ratios compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s economy may expand 9.6 percent next year while
Brazil’s grows at a 4.1 percent rate, according to IMF
forecasts. India may expand by 8.4 percent, the fund predicts.  Ablin of Harris Private Bank said a losing investment in
Chinese stocks for his personal account in 1993 showed him that
economic expansion doesn’t always translate into stock-market
gains. While the Chinese economy posted average annual growth of
12 percent in the four years through 1996, trouncing the global
rate of 3.1 percent, Ablin’s bet on the  China Fund Inc.  lost 50
percent of its value.  “I had pretty much bought into the consensus and I was
late to the party,” he said. “That lesson told me there’s a
big difference between the fundamental economic backdrop and the
valuation of stocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 