-- Norway Calls for Palestinian State, Gives Diplomatic Mission Embassy Rank
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-12-15T15:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/norway-calls-for-palestinian-state-gives-diplomatic-mission-embassy-rank.html
Norway upgraded the Palestinian
diplomatic mission in the country to an embassy and called for
the creation of a Palestinian state in 2011.  “We should all cling to the vision of 2011 being the year
where we can see a new state on the world stage: a Palestinian
state,” Norwegian Foreign Minister  Jonas Gahr Stoere  said at a
press conference in Oslo today.  Stoere met with Palestinian Authority  Prime Minister Salam Fayyad  in Oslo today and signed an agreement to support a $90
million program for Palestinian education that’s also backed by
Germany, Finland and Ireland, Per Landemoen, a senior adviser at
the Norwegian Foreign Ministry, said in an interview.  Stoere said the accord is part of Norwegian efforts to
shore up Palestinian institutions in anticipation of the
creation of an independent state.  Direct talks between Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and the Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas 
collapsed in September after less than a month, when Israel
resumed building at West Bank settlements after a 10-month
moratorium. Palestinian leaders have said they will seek
recognition as a state at the United Nations if talks fail.  Argentina and Brazil have both recognized Palestine as a
“free and independent state” this month. The European Union on
Dec. 13 re-iterated its readiness “when appropriate, to
recognize a Palestinian state.”  Fayyad said today that the Palestinian Authority has no
intention of declaring a state unilaterally.  “The only thing we’re doing unilaterally is building our
state and working on making the reality of it on the ground
throughout,” Fayyad said. “It’s a state that we’re looking
for, not yet another declaration of statehood.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  