-- Norwegian Central Bank Keeps Deposit Rate at 2%, Signals Increases to Come
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-12-15T15:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/norwegian-central-bank-keeps-deposit-rate-at-2-signals-increases-to-come.html
Norway’s central bank left its main
interest rate unchanged for a fifth meeting as borrowing costs
stay at crisis levels in the U.S. and Europe, while warning
rates in the Nordic country can’t stay low “for too long.”  The  overnight deposit rate  was left at 2 percent, Oslo-
based Norges Bank said today. The decision was expected by all
19 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The bank shelved its
tightening cycle in May after last year becoming the first in
Europe to reverse crisis easing.  “The consideration of guarding against the risk of future
financial imbalances that may disturb activity and inflation
somewhat further ahead suggests that the key policy rate should
not be kept low for too long,” Deputy Governor  Jan F. Qvigstad 
said in the statement. “On the other hand, uncertainty
regarding developments in Europe persists. Central bank key
rates abroad are expected to remain low for some time.”  Slow price growth and concern that Europe’s debt crisis may
impede export demand prompted policy makers in October to
postpone raising rates for six months to the middle of 2011. The
euro lost as much as 0.7 against the dollar today amid signs the
region’s fiscal malaise is engulfing more countries. At the same
time, Norges Bank said last month house prices rose more than it
expected, signaling policy makers are tracking mortgage credit.  Repeats Plan  Qvigstad today repeated that Norges Bank plans to start
raising rates in “the summer.” “We see no reason to change
that plan,” he said at a press conference.  “It is clear that they pay attention to the strong
increase in house prices recently,” said Bjoern-Roger
Wilhelmsen, a senior economist at First Securities ASA in Oslo,
and a former Norges Bank analyst. “It is quite possible that
they will hike in March; that is really an option.”  Policy makers take the development in property prices into
account when setting monetary policy, Qvigstad said, calling the
housing market “very important.” When asked if a further
increase in housing prices may lead to an earlier rate rise in
Norway, Qvigstad said the board would assess this in March. For
a possible reassessment in January, “the development has to be
significantly different than forecast,” he said.  The krone gained 0.2 percent against the euro to 7.911 at
4:21 p.m. in Oslo. It weakened 0.5 percent to 5.925 against the
dollar. The Norwegian currency’s import-weighted exchange rate
has been 0.4 percent weaker this quarter than the bank projected
in October, it said today.  March Revisions?  “It is more likely that they might revise the rate path
upwards in March,” said  Katrine Boye , senior economist at
Nordea Bank AB in Oslo, by phone. The statement is “more
hawkish; It seems like they put a bit more weight on the
possible problems of keeping the rate low for too long.”  The economy of the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter
gained momentum in the third quarter, expanding a quarterly 0.9
percent, helped by rising household spending and increased
petroleum investments.  Still, higher consumption hasn’t fueled price growth as
 underlying inflation , which excludes energy and taxes, was
unchanged at 1 percent in November, staying below the central
bank’s 2.5 percent target for a 16th month.  Slow Inflation  “There is very low inflation on imported goods and that is
both an effect from low price pressures internationally and also
the krone effect,” said Boye, before the rate decision. “But
we also see that the domestic inflation has been a bit on the
low side to Norges Bank’s forecasts.”  Today’s decision was the last for Governor  Svein Gjedrem ,
whose second and final six-year term ends this month. He will be
succeeded by  Oeystein Olsen , head of the country’s statistics
office, on Jan. 1.  Harald Magnus Andreassen , chief economist at
First Securities, and other analysts have said Olsen may focus
more on the exchange rate.  The pace of Norway’s recovery has supported the krone,
which gained against all the 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg this month. The krone appreciated 2.1 percent against
the euro and 5 percent against the U.S currency.  Norway’s improved economic prospects, low borrowing costs
and a stable unemployment rate -- Europe’s lowest -- have
encouraged households to invest in the property market. House
prices rose an annual 6.2 in October, more than the central bank
expected, it said on Nov. 30.  The central bank in neighboring Sweden, which today raised
its repo rate for a fourth time since July to 1.25 percent, said
higher rates are needed to slow borrowing growth and prevent
potential imbalances.  “The Riksbank has been more explicit than Norges Bank in
putting out these worries,” said Gizem Kara, an economist at
BNP Paribas SA, before the announcement. Still, “we will see a
further increase in consumer spending, and given that, Norges
Bank might become a bit more worried.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  