-- Novartis Wins Alcon in $12.9 Billion Agreement
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-12-15T09:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/novartis-takes-ownership-of-alcon-for-12-9-billion-ends-11-month-dispute.html
Novartis AG  will take full control
of Alcon Inc. after agreeing to pay $12.9 billion for stock of
the eye-care company it doesn’t already own, ending an 11-month
dispute with minority shareholders.  The payment will be a combination of Novartis stock and, if
necessary, cash to bring the value of the bid to $168 a share,
the Basel, Switzerland-based company said today in a statement.
Alcon’s Independent Director Committee recommended approval.  The Swiss drugmaker in January exercised an option to buy
Nestle SA’s 52 percent stake in  Alcon  for an average of $180 a
share in cash, giving it 77 percent of the company. It also
offered to purchase stock held by the public at a lower price, a
proposal Alcon’s IDC called “grossly inadequate.” Novartis had
the biggest gain in six months in Zurich trading today.  “This is positive for Novartis,”  Fabian Wenner , an
analyst at UBS AG in Zurich, said in a telephone interview.
“The dilution will be a lot lower than expected.”  The company also said it plans to restart a 10-billion
Swiss franc share buyback program first announced in 2008. The
company will also issue about 108 million shares to be used for
the merger. Assuming a cash payment of about $900 million and a
share buyback of $5 billion, the transaction is expected to
reduce diluted  earnings per share  by 3 percent, Novartis said.  ‘Favorable Resolution’  The Swiss company will have paid a total of about $51.6
billion for Alcon. The bid announced today is higher than the
current value of the original offer of 2.8 Novartis shares for
each outstanding Alcon share. Novartis expects the deal to close
in the first half of 2011.  “I congratulate the entire Alcon board, including the IDC,
and Novartis for achieving a favorable resolution on the
merger,”  Kevin Buehler , Alcon’s president and chief executive
officer, said in the statement.  Alcon will become the new eye-care division of Novartis,
which will also include CIBA Vision and eye medicine, with sales
of $8.7 billion last year. Novartis is looking to Alcon to help
it diversify away from pharmaceuticals, a model also pursued by
New Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson , which sells
prescription drugs, medical devices, and consumer products such
as the Tylenol painkiller and Listerine mouthwash.  Original Bid  Novartis rose as much as 1.95 francs, or 3.6 percent, to
55.55 francs at 9:45 a.m. in Zurich trading.  The original bid of 2.8 Novartis shares now values each
Alcon share at about $155.9, based on the drugmaker’s closing
price of 53.6 Swiss francs yesterday.  The total merger payment for the minority interest will be
made of as many as 215 million Novartis shares and the potential
cash payment. If the dollar value of 2.8 Novartis shares
increases, the value of the additional payment will decline
until it reaches zero, Novartis said. An additional gain in the
dollar value of Novartis shares would result in a reduction of
the exchange ratio, the company said. Based on a share value of
$56, the transaction would be settled for about $900 million in
cash, Novartis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  