-- Obama Meeting CEOs Shows President Who Delivers Gains
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-12-15T14:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/obama-meeting-ceos-today-shows-business-president-who-delivers-their-gains.html
As President  Barack Obama  today
holds his largest private meeting with chief executive officers
since he entered the White House, he may find some of his
corporate critics cheering.  Obama is generating more optimism among  CEO s after a series
of business-friendly decisions, such as extending Bush-era tax
cuts and reaching a free-trade accord with South Korea, even as
skepticism remains.  “It’s a great step he’s taking, meeting with CEOs,”
 General Electric Co . CEO  Jeffrey Immelt , 54, who will attend the
session, told reporters yesterday after an investor meeting in
New York. The tax cuts and CEO gathering together “are real
positives.”  It has been several decades since a U.S. president held
office during record corporate earnings while the stock market’s
benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500  index climbed 46 percent in the
21 months since he was inaugurated, all at a time with no
prospect that inflation or interest rates will surge anytime
soon. Still, it’s the tax and trade initiatives that may be
changing attitudes.  Ivan Seidenberg , CEO of  Verizon Communications Inc .,
praised Obama during a Dec. 8 news conference for “a
willingness to learn” after the president agreed to keep the
 tax cuts  for high-income families.  “The things that occurred in the past couple of days are
extraordinary,” said Seidenberg, 64, who also heads the
Business Roundtable, an association of 193 CEOS.  ‘Hostile Environment’  Six months earlier, Seidenberg complained in a speech that
Obama’s policies were creating “an increasingly hostile
environment for investment and  job creation ,” citing proposals
to raise corporate taxes and impose environmental regulations.  Jamie Dimon , chairman and CEO of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
yesterday praised the signal Obama sent in agreeing to extend
all the tax cuts enacted under former President  George W. Bush .  “If we’re going to strengthen our economy and grow jobs,
this type of outreach -- and cooperation between the
administration, Congress, and the private sector -- are
critical,” said Dimon, 54, who met with Obama last week at the
White House.  Twenty executives were invited to today’s meeting at Blair
House, across from the White House. Aside from Immelt, the CEOs
include  Google Inc .’s  Eric Schmidt ; Intel Corp.’s  Paul Otellini ;
Comcast Corp.’s  Brian Roberts ; PepsiCo Inc.’s  Indra Nooyi ; Dow
Chemical Co.’s  Andrew Liveris , and Cisco Systems Inc.’s  John Chambers .  ‘Absolutely Convinced’  Obama this morning said he’s “absolutely convinced” that
the compromise tax package being debated in Congress will help
the economy grow, and said he plans to encourage the executives
to step up investment.  Steven Winoker , a senior analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in New York, was asked whether companies would be investing
in U.S. research or manufacturing plants.  “A year ago the answer was, ‘No, not under the current
administration rules,’” Winoker said in a Dec. 13 interview
with Bloomberg Television. “I am now hearing much more
optimism.”  The reappraisal of Obama takes place as his power has been
curtailed by the election of a Republican majority in the U.S.
House of Representatives, aided by more than $30 million in
advertising by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Democrats lost 63
House seats, the largest midterm loss for the party since 1938.  In a news conference on Nov. 4 the day after the elections,
Obama said he wanted to make “clear that the only way America
succeeds is if businesses are succeeding.”  Corporate Profits  Businesses and investors already have been succeeding under
his presidency. Corporate profits in the third quarter exceeded
the 2006 high before the recession. The economy is showing signs
of strength, and many forecasters raised estimates for growth
after agreement on the tax cuts.  Optimism about the economy among CEOs of the nation’s
largest companies rose in the fourth quarter to the highest
level since the start of 2006 as business leaders projected
increased sales, investment and hiring, according to a survey
released yesterday by the Business Roundtable.  Eighty percent expect sales will grow in the next six
months and six of 10 plan to boost capital spending. Forty-five
percent say they will hire more workers, up from 31 percent in
the third quarter.  Forecasters anticipate the S&P 500 will rise another 11
percent to 1,379 in 2011, pushing the index to its biggest
three-year advance since the 1990s, according to the average of
11 strategists at big Wall Street banks surveyed by Bloomberg in
December.  Skepticism on Obama  Even with that, some executives doubt there’s a change of
approach by Obama. Rhetoric from the White House has rankled
them, including Obama’s chastisement of “fat-cat” bankers who
took large bonuses during the financial crisis and Interior
Secretary  Ken Salazar ’s comment in May amid the Gulf of Mexico
oil spill that the government would keep “our boot on their
neck” to assure that  BP Plc  cleaned up the disaster.  Mike Klayko , CEO of San Jose, California-based  Brocade
Communications Systems Inc. , the largest maker of switches for
data-storage networks, said there’s been a shift in attitudes by
an administration that a year ago had a prevailing view that
“business is evil.”  There’s still a lot of “inconsistency,” though, from the
White House, he said. “It’s one step forward, one step back”
in how the administration feels about business. He said the
financial-regulatory overhaul has “everything under the sun,”
and is unnecessary.  ‘Continual Bashing’  Speaking to the Argyle Executive Forum in New York
yesterday, billionaire real estate investor  Sam Zell  criticized
“the continual bashing of the business community.”  “We still have a lot of problems as to whether this
administration understands the basic premise, and that is that
jobs are created by business, not by government,” said Zell,
who also invested in the media industry through a 2007 leveraged
buyout of  Tribune Co. , which filed for bankruptcy protection a
year later.  “The president’s relationship with the business community
hasn’t improved,”  Mortimer Zuckerman , CEO of  Boston Properties
Inc. , said in an e-mail. “Obama embraced the tax deal
reluctantly.”  Zuckerman said the financial overhaul will impose a burden
on businesses. “Nobody knows how constricted the financial
world will become as a result of these new regulations,” he
said.  ‘Politically Expedient’  Ken Hicks , CEO of  Foot Locker Inc. , the largest U.S.
athletic shoe store chain, said Obama’s agreement to extend tax
rates is “a politically expedient bill. He doesn’t agree with
it, but he’s got to do it to get other things that he wants.”  Hicks said Obama doesn’t understand business.  “What this administration misses many times is the law of
unintended consequences,” such as the costs the health-
insurance bill will impose on employers, he said.  Seidenberg’s group, representing CEOs from companies such
as  Exxon Mobil Corp ., released a “ Roadmap for Growth ” on Dec.
8 that called for revisions in the financial and health-care
bills. The CEOs said 290 environmental regulations being
considered by the administration would stifle growth.  “Many of them are not fact-based, and many of them do not
even have business in the conversation,” Dow Chemical’s Liveris
said at a Dec. 8 news conference.  EPA Actions  Two actions by the Environmental Protection Agency may be
more telling of a shift by the administration than the tax or
trade deals.  Within the past week, the administration announced delays
in new rules to regulate industrial boilers and ozone. That
showed a willingness to listen to business complaints that new
regulations could impose unnecessary costs, according to the
National Association of Manufacturers.  “We’re hopeful these are signs that there is going to be a
newly invigorated growth agenda,” said  Aric Newhouse , senior
vice president for government relations at the Washington-based
group.  At today’s meeting, the executives will confer with the
president on issues such as education,  exports , regulation and
the  budget deficit . Among others attending are  American Express
Co . Chairman and CEO  Kenneth Chenault ; Motorola Inc. co-CEO  Greg Brown ; Duke Energy Corp. CEO  James E. Rogers , and Eli Lilly &
Co. President and CEO  John Lechleiter .  NextEra Energy Inc. CEO  Lew Hay  and DuPont Co. CEO  Ellen Kullman  also will be there as will  UBS AG  Chairman for the
Americas  Robert Wolf ;  United Parcel Service Inc . CEO  Scott Davis ; Boeing Co. CEO  James McNerney ;  David Cote , chairman of
Honeywell International Inc.;  Penny Pritzker , chairman of
Pritzker Realty Group;  Mark Gallogly , founder and managing
partner of Centerbridge Partners LP, and venture capitalist  John Doerr , partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Dorning  in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 