-- Odyssey to Pay Cuomo $400,000 Settlement in Probe of New York Pension Fund
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-12-16T00:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/odyssey-to-pay-cuomo-400-000-settlement-in-probe-of-new-york-pension-fund.html
Odyssey Investment Partners LLC and
HFV Management LP reached agreements with New York Attorney
General  Andrew Cuomo  that resolve probes of their involvement
with so-called pay-to-play at the state pension fund.  Odyssey, based in New York, as part of the settlement
agreed to pay Cuomo $400,000 in connection with a $20 million
investment the New York state Common Retirement Fund made in
Odyssey Fund III, Cuomo said in a statement.  The private equity firm had paid Searle & Co., a broker-
dealer associated with former political consultant Henry
“Hank” Morris, $400,000 in fees related to the investment, the
statement said. Morris was at one time the chief political
adviser to former Comptroller  Alan Hevesi , who controlled the
pension fund.  Morris pleaded guilty to securities fraud last month in
state court in Manhattan. He admitted that the investment
process at the New York pension fund was manipulated to benefit
him, his associates and contributors to Hevesi’s campaign.  Hevesi pleaded guilty in October to participating in the
pay-to-play scheme.  In April 2002, the unidentified “chairman of Odyssey”
declined a request by Hevesi and Morris to serve as chairman of
Hevesi’s campaign for comptroller, according to the agreement.
The Odyssey chairman contributed $12,500 to Hevesi’s campaign in
2002 and in 2006 and at Hevesi’s urging, he raised $50,000 in
campaign contributions for Hevesi.  Odyssey didn’t admit or deny Cuomo’s findings, according to
the agreement.  Mark Semer, a spokesman for Odyssey, declined to comment.
Alan Futerfas, an attorney for HFV, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  Eight Guilty Pleas  To date, eight men have pleaded guilty and 21 firms have
signed agreements with Cuomo. The state and the pension fund
together have garnered more than $161 million as a result of the
investigation.  HFV, based in Dallas, received a $100 million commitment
from the state pension fund that was obtained a “corrupt
arrangement” between HFV co-founder  Barrett Wissman  and Morris,
Cuomo said. Nosemote LLC, a company owned by Morris, received
over $600,000 in placement fees from HFV, Cuomo said.  HFV also didn’t admit or deny Cuomo’s findings.  Wissman, who Cuomo said in April 2009 had pleaded guilty in
connection with the investigation, already agreed to pay $12
million to New York as part of the plea.  HFV and Odyssey both agreed to adopt reforms in doing
business with public pension funds nationwide, including not
using placement agents to solicit investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  