-- Togo to Get as Much as $1.8 Billion in Debt Relief After Reform Program
-- B y   E t o n a m   D i g o
-- 2010-12-15T15:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/togo-to-get-as-much-as-1-8-billion-in-debt-relief-after-reform-program.html
Togo , one of the world’s poorest
countries, has become eligible for as much as $1.8 billion in
debt relief, or 82 percent of total external money owed, after
completing a World Bank and International Monetary Fund
economic- and governance-reform program.  The relief means the West African nation will “no longer
face a heavy debt-service burden,” according to an e-mailed
statement from the Washington-based lenders.  Togo, a country of about 6 million people, has been
reforming its economy to boost growth following 38 years of rule
by one leader,  Gnassingbe Eyadema . His son,  Faure Gnassingbe ,
was elected to a second term in office in March, pledging to
continue reforms that include the sale of state-owned assets and
curbing public spending. Togo’s economy will expand 3.4 percent
this year and 3.7 percent in 2011, the IMF said Sept. 22.  The debt relief comes under the joint IMF and World Bank
Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative and includes relief
from the Paris Club of creditors, the bank’s own funds for
developing countries and other bilateral, multilateral and
commercial lenders, according to the statement.  “Togo’s greatly improved financial health will provide a
solid foundation for advancing the country’s development,”
Marshall Mills, the IMF’s mission chief for Togo, said in the
statement.  Togo has a gross domestic product per capita of $431,
compared with the sub-Saharan African average of $624, according
to the World Bank. The United Nations Development Programme’s
Human Development Index, which measures life expectancy,
literary and standards of living, ranks the West African nation
139th out of 169 countries.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Etonam Digo in Geneva via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 