-- Crude Drops a Second Day After U.S. Fuel Supplies Gain, Dollar Strengthens
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-12-15T06:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/oil-drops-a-second-day-on-speculation-u-s-stimulus-plan-will-boost-dollar.html
Oil dropped for a second day after
an industry report showed U.S. fuel stockpiles rose last week
and the Federal Reserve said the recovery in the world’s biggest
crude user has been “disappointingly slow.”  Futures fell as much as 0.9 percent after the U.S. central
bank said it would maintain a stimulus plan because the economic
recovery was insufficient. Heating oil stockpiles climbed to the
highest since the week ending Oct. 29 while gasoline inventories
built for a third week, the industry-funded American Petroleum
Institute said yesterday. The Energy Department will report its
own stockpile data today.  “The U.S. economy is not doing as well as it should be and
the plan reiterates the concern that the Fed and the government
have,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of Commodity
Broking Services Pty in Sydney. Fuel stockpiles are “building
into a market that already has excess supply,” he said.  The January contract fell as much as 75 cents to $87.53 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
It was at $87.84 at 1:48 p.m. in Singapore after dropping 0.4
percent yesterday. Prices are up 10.8 percent this year.  Futures also declined as a strengthening dollar limited the
appeal of commodities. The U.S. currency rose against all except
two of its 16 major peers and was 0.2 percent higher versus the
euro.  Stockpile Reports  The American Petroleum Institute yesterday reported that
crude inventories fell 1.44 million barrels.  The Energy Department’s report, scheduled to be released at
10:30 a.m. in Washington today, will probably show gasoline
supplies increased 2 million barrels in the week ended Dec. 10,
according to the median of 17 analyst responses in a Bloomberg
News survey. Crude oil supplies probably dropped 2.5 million
barrels. Analysts were split over whether stockpiles of
distillate fuel rose or fell.  U.S. gasoline demand at the pump slid 2.7 percent last week
as retail prices rose to the highest level in 25 months,
according to data in a MasterCard Inc. SpendingPulse report.  Fuel demand was 1.3 percent below the same period a year
earlier, MasterCard said. That’s the largest drop in year-over-
year consumption since Oct. 29.  Brent crude for January settlement dropped as much as 52
cents, or 0.6 percent, to $90.69 a barrel on the ICE Futures
exchange in London.  The January future expires tomorrow. The more actively
traded February contact fell as much as 48 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to $90.02 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 