-- London `Shadow' Lender Doubled Earnings as It Tapped Fed Emergency Loans
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2010-12-15T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/london-shadow-lender-doubled-profit-as-it-tapped-fed-program.html
BSN Capital Partners Ltd. , the
London-based finance company headed by former Deutsche Bank AG
managing director  John Burgess , more than doubled earnings last
year as it tapped a U.S. emergency-lending program designed to
stem the credit crisis.  BSN earned fees from providing advice for three affiliates,
called conduits, which borrowed $42.8 billion in aggregate from
the Federal Reserve’s  Commercial Paper Funding Facility , BSN
said in a regulatory filing in April, the most recent data
available. Profit in 2009 was 853,300 pounds ($1.4 million),
compared with 380,800 pounds a year earlier, the filing shows.  The funding facility, which loaned a total of $738 billion
while in operation, was created to “prevent substantial
disruptions to the financial markets and the economy” caused by
the credit crisis, the  Fed’s website  says. BSN’s filing shows
that not all firms that used the CPFF needed it as a source of
lending. The facility gave finance companies loans as many
private investors avoided the short-term debt markets.  “Although the conduits and BSN Group did not require the
CPFF funding, its presence did bolster profits in 2009,” BSN
director  Jeremy Nye  wrote in the filing. “Results for 2010
therefore are expected to be more in line with prior years, with
2009 being considered an exceptionally profitable year.”  Fed data show that more than $140 billion, or almost 20
percent, of the CPFF’s loans went to conduits such as those
affiliated with BSN, which earned fees “linked to the growth or
decline of these same conduits,” according to the filing. The
conduits were profitable in 2009 even without the CPFF due to
“natural market liquidity,” Nye said in the filing.  Emergency Measure  “There’s no way that somebody should have been able to
make a profit on the back of what was supposed to be an
emergency Depression-preventable measure,” said  Edward Grebeck ,
a finance lecturer at New York University and chief executive
officer of Stamford, Connecticut-based Tempus Advisors, a debt-
market adviser.  BSN’s Burgess and  Albert Cheong , the firm’s New York-based
representative, didn’t return e-mails seeking comment.  BSN is a subsidiary of BSN Holdings Ltd, a Cayman Islands-
registered firm that manages the three conduits, according to
the report. Wages and salaries for BSN’s 10 employees rose by 63
percent to 3.4 million pounds during the year.  The BSN conduits are part of what the Fed described in a
July  report  as a “shadow banking” system that provided cheap
funding to banks by converting opaque, risky assets into short-
term debts.  Bank of America  Bank of America Corp.  is among firms that have
relationships with BSN, according to an e-mailed statement from
the bank.  Citigroup Inc.  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  also do
business with BSN, according to one of the conduit’s filings.
Citigroup spokesman  Alexander Samuelson  declined to comment, as
did Royal Bank of Scotland spokesman  Michael Geller .  Burgess, an American, headed a  Deutsche Bank  money fund
business until 2004, according to BSN’s website. BSN’s Nye and
 Cheong  are also ex-Deutsche Bank officials, according to the
website.  John Shelton , a former Morgan Stanley managing
director, and ex-JPMorgan Chase & Co. official Ian Forrest also
run BSN, according to the website.  One of the BSN conduits, Halkin Finance Plc, is registered
in Ireland and has no employees, according to a filing with the
 Irish Companies Registration Office . It borrowed $5.6 billion
from the CPFF in a series of loans, the last of which matured in
October 2009, Fed data show. Halkin paid BSN Holdings a
management fee of $4.55 million in 2009, up from $2.21 million
in 2008, according to the filing.  Michael Spencer  BSN Capital Partners is 25 percent-owned by  ICAP Plc , the
U.K. brokerage services business, according to a 2010 company
report. One of ICAP’s  largest shareholders  is  Michael Spencer ,
the former U.K. Conservative Party treasurer, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. BSN has donated 172,000 pounds to the
Tories since 2007, according to the U.K. Electoral Commission.  Alexandra Umpleby, an ICAP spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  The Government Accountability Office “should do a full
review as a part of their audit of the Fed so that the American
people can have a better understanding of who benefited from
this unprecedented taxpayer bailout,” U.S. Senator  Bernard Sanders , an Independent from Vermont, said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Donal Griffin  in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  