-- One Company Holds at Least 90% of London Metal Exchange-Monitored Stocks
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-12-15T05:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/one-company-holds-at-least-90-of-london-metal-exchange-monitored-stocks.html
At least 90 percent of the copper in
warehouses monitored by the London Metal Exchange is being held
by one unidentified company, bourse data show. The metal traded
about 1 percent below its record today.  The so-called dominant position indicated in the Warrant
Cash Banding Report moved to the higher segment on Dec. 10 from
50 percent to 79 percent, the data show. The figure includes
stockpile holdings and open positions for the next three trading
days. LME inventories totaled 350,900 metric tons as of Dec. 14.  “I highly doubt it’s one player trying to squeeze the
market,” said Ji Xianglong, an analyst at Xinhua Futures Co.
“It could tighten short-term supply but the outlook for the
longer term is for a shortage anyway and that’s what’s driving
prices to record levels.”  Copper for three-month delivery surged 24 percent in London
this year on expectations usage will outstrip supply, draining
stockpiles, and on speculation the planned introduction of
exchange-traded products backed by the metal will boost demand.
Inventories monitored by the LME fell 30 percent this year and
are set for their first annual drop since 2004.  The premium to borrow copper for next-day delivery, also
known as the tom-next spread, jumped to as high as $13 a ton
yesterday, the most since July 2009, and was last at a discount
of 50 cents. LME rules oblige holders of dominant positions to
lend metal at fixed rates.  ‘Not Unusual’  The current situation in the copper market is “not unusual
and the exchange is exercising its well-established procedures
for maintaining an orderly market,”  Diarmuid O’Hegarty , deputy
chief executive officer of the LME, said in a comment e-mailed
by the exchange.  The three-month copper contract climbed to a record
$9,267.50 a ton yesterday, and traded at $9,173.25 a ton at 1:52
p.m. Singapore time today.  One unidentified firm held 50 percent to 79 percent of the
copper stockpiles from Nov. 22 through Dec. 9, exchange data
showed. JPMorgan Chase & Co. was holding the dominant position,
the Daily Telegraph reported on Dec. 3, citing unidentified
people.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for the bank in New
York, said JPMorgan doesn’t hold 90 percent or more of the
copper stock warrants. She declined to comment if the bank holds
a dominant position of less than that amount.  Dominant positions exist in other LME metals, bourse data
show. One unidentified company holds 50 percent to 79 percent of
the aluminum alloy stockpiles and one party controls 50 percent
to 79 percent of the nickel inventory. In zinc, one company has
50 percent to 79 percent of the metal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Claudia Carpenter  in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 Gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  