-- Toreador Plans to Drill in Paris Basin for Shale Oil Starting Next Month
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-12-15T16:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/toreador-plans-to-drill-in-paris-basin-for-shale-oil-starting-next-month.html
Toreador Resources Corp.  hired a rig
and plans to drill its first well as early as next month in the
Paris Basin east of the French capital in its exploration
campaign for shale oil with Hess Corp.  “Is there oil under the Eiffel Tower? The answer is yes,”
Toreador Chief Executive Officer  Craig McKenzie  said at a
presentation today in Paris before tomorrow’s listing of shares
on NYSE Euronext. Toreador stock already trades on Nasdaq.  Toreador and  Vermilion Energy Inc.  are among companies that
have snapped up permits this year to explore for oil trapped in
Paris Basin shale rock, which was previously too hard to tap.
Techniques developed to fracture rock and release petroleum have
revolutionized exploration and boosted U.S. natural-gas
production 20 percent since 2006. The companies say the geology
under Paris is comparable to the Bakken Shale in North America.  Toreador and Hess have 680,000 net acres of awarded shale
oil acreage in the Paris Basin and have applied for more
permits. “We know we won’t get everything, we will have to
share” with other companies, Toreador country manager Emmanual
Mousset said.  France’s rules on drilling and production of conventional
oil and gas apply to the unconventional hydrocarbons, he said.
“There is no uncertainty about the regulatory framework.”  The government will award eight permits for shale
exploration in the Paris Basin within weeks, and another 50 are
pending, Charles Lamiraux, senior geologist at the French energy
ministry, said yesterday at a Paris conference.  ‘Encouraging’ Results  By the end of next year all of the permits covering the
Paris Basin will be assigned to about a dozen companies,
Lamiraux said.  Vermilion has said it had “encouraging” results in the
area after drilling two vertical wells and fracturing rock. The
Calgary-based company plans to drill two more wells next year
and applied for more than 636,000 acres of permits in addition
to the 175,000 already held, according to a Nov. 5 statement.  Toreador is reprocessing existing two-dimensional seismic
data of the region rather than doing more, which would be too
expensive and disruptive to the local population, according to
McKenzie. The first well will be near the Chateau Thierry permit
east of Paris and will be drilled vertically.  While the Paris Basin may hold 100 billion barrels, the
amount of recoverable reserves hasn’t been estimated, according
to the French Energy Ministry. Typically between 30 percent and
50 percent of the oil remains in the source rock, of which 1
percent could be recoverable, according to McKenzie. That may
mean about 300 million barrels of oil are potentially
recoverable.  New York-based  Hess  in May agreed to invest $120 million to
help Toreador search 800,000 hectares (1.97 million acres).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  