-- Khodorkovsky Yukos Verdict Delayed by Moscow Court
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-12-17T08:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/moscow-court-delays-khodorkovsky-verdict-on-oil-theft-charges-to-dec-27.html
(Corrects quote in seventh paragraph of story originally
published on Dec. 15.)  A Moscow court delayed the verdict
phase of former Yukos Oil Co. billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky ’s
trial on oil-theft charges that may keep him behind bars until
2017, according to his lawyers.  The reading of the verdict, scheduled to start today, was
postponed to Dec. 27, the Khamovniki District Court said in a
statement posted on the courthouse door today. No explanation
was given. Lawyers for Khodorkovsky weren’t given advance notice
of the delay, said  Vladimir Krasnov , a defense-team member.  “This is an attempt to avoid public attention,” Marina
Khodorkovskaya, the ex-Yukos chief’s mother, said outside the
courthouse. “Too many people are interested in this case. This
is what they usually do.” The verdict will now be handed down
during the holidays, when many foreign journalists leave Russia.  Khodorkovsky, once Russia’s richest man, and his former
business partner,  Platon Lebedev , face a total of 14 years in
jail on charges of stealing about 219 million metric tons of oil
from Yukos. The trial ended on Nov. 2. Reading the verdict may
take up to two weeks. The two men are already serving eight-year
jail terms for fraud. Khodorkovsky’s lawyers say time served
will be deducted if he’s convicted in the current trial.  ‘Ecstatic’ Stocks  Yukos was bankrupted under $30 billion of tax claims and
sold off in pieces, mostly to state oil company OAO Rosneft.
Khodorkovsky has said his 2005 conviction was motivated by his
opposition to  Vladimir Putin , who was president at the time of
his 2003 arrest. Putin said Khodorkovsky “deserved his
punishment” in an interview with Kommersant in August.  An acquittal in the case, while unlikely, would attract new
capital to Russia and drive stocks higher, investors said.  “If he were paroled or pardoned, the stock market would be
ecstatic, although I think the market expects his sentence to be
extended,”  John Heisel , a Moscow-based sales trader at
Citigroup Inc., said by phone.  The Micex Index surged 1.6 percent on Aug. 22, 2008, after
a Russian media report, later retracted, that Khodorkovsky had
been paroled.  “A political pardon for Khodorkovsky would be helpful from
a market point of view,”  Mattias Westman , chief executive
officer of Prosperity Capital Management, the largest Russia-
focused equity investor with $4.5 billion under management, said
by phone. “It shouldn’t have much impact on Russia’s investment
case, but it’s something investors keep bringing up with us.”  ‘Yukos Affair’  Khodorkovsky has ruled out the possibility of an acquittal
and said he’s prepared to die in jail. The verdict will be
“predictable,” he said in his  closing statement  during the
trial. “No one believes that you can get an acquittal in the
Yukos affair in a Moscow court.”  While prosecutors reduced the amount of oil Khodorkovsky is
accused of stealing to about 219 million tons from 350 million
tons, the assessed financial damage to the state hardly changed,
said Maxim Dbar, a spokesman for the defense team.  Former Prime Minister  Mikhail Kasyanov , who testified as a
defense witness in the trial, said Khodorkovsky and Lebedev have
a “5 percent chance” of acquittal. “It won’t be a just
decision; it will be another abuse by the authorities,” he said
in a Dec. 13 interview.  The Khodorkovsky case is “one of the irritants that
investors traditionally react to,” though it’s no longer a
“primary concern,” said  German Gref , CEO of OAO Sberbank,
Russia’s largest lender.  Gref’s Testimony  “We have our work cut out for us to improve the investment
climate,” Gref said. “This will produce entirely different
results from the perspective of influencing investors’
opinions.” The Khodorkovsky case is “one episode, but we have
systemic issues that aren’t resolved,” such as defense of
property rights and improving the judiciary and law enforcement,
he said.  Gref was economy minister when Khodorkovsky was arrested.
He testified in the oil-theft trial that his responsibilities as
minister didn’t include “inspections” of corporate finances.
Still, he said he would have been informed if other officials
had uncovered theft by executives at a company as big as Yukos.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Corcoran  in Moscow at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  