-- Pakistani Bomb Got Help From UN as Lax Oversight Weakened Nuclear Watchdog
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2010-12-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/pakistani-nuclear-weapons-program-s-aid-from-un-shows-weakness-of-watchdog.html
The United Nations agency tasked
with curbing nuclear proliferation may have unwittingly helped
Pakistan develop its atomic-weapons program because of weak
internal oversight, according to documents and interviews with
three former UN scientists.  The UN’s  International Atomic Energy Agency  provided
financial and technical aid to develop Pakistan’s uranium mines
and improve plutonium-producing reactors even after the country
tested a nuclear weapon in 1998 in defiance of a non-
proliferation  treaty , IAEA documents show.  While the IAEA aid was intended for civilian nuclear power,
Pakistan used uranium from the mines for weapons, said three
former agency scientists with direct knowledge of the situation
who asked not to be identified because they are prohibited from
commenting by confidentiality agreements with the IAEA.
Pakistan’s two atomic-energy plants run on fuel from  China  and
uranium from Niger under IAEA safeguards, according to
agreements with the Vienna-based agency.  “The uranium-mining assistance appears to have assisted
Pakistan in furthering its nuclear-weapons program,” said
 Charles Ferguson , president of the Washington-based Federation
of American Scientists and a physicist who has consulted for the
U.S. State Department and the Energy Department. “What occurred
was a lack of effective oversight.”  The IAEA’s failure to prevent the use of its aid for
prohibited military purposes raises questions about its ability
to police the nuclear material that it helps countries produce.
The agency, winner of the 2005 Nobel Peace Prize, helped North
Korea develop its uranium mines before the Asian country kicked
inspectors out in 2003. Syria, under investigation since 2007
for what the U.S. alleges is a secret atomic-weapons program,
uses an IAEA-built lab to produce uranium.  Agency Mandate  The agency “has a clear mandate under its statue to help
all member states benefit from the peaceful uses of nuclear
energy,” said IAEA spokeswoman Gill Tudor, who declined three
requests to address assertions that the agency helped Pakistan’s
weapons program. Countries sign agreements with the agency that
prohibit them from using aid for atomic bombs, she said.  During its 53-year  history , the IAEA has played a dual
role. While best known for its inspection work in countries
suspected of secretly pursuing nuclear weapons, such as Iran and
 Saddam Hussein’s  Iraq, it also aids countries that have vowed to
forgo atomic weapons in their civilian nuclear programs.  The government in Islamabad was able to exploit the UN
agency’s help because the IAEA doesn’t follow up to make sure
aid has been used for its intended purpose, said  Mark Hibbs , a
Berlin-based analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace, who has researched illicit nuclear networks for more than
20 years.  ‘No Strict Verification’  “IAEA can’t be sure whether that uranium went into
Pakistan’s military program or into peaceful uses because there
is no strict verification process for technical cooperation,”
Hibbs said in an interview.  Pakistan hasn’t used agency assistance for military
purposes, Pakistani IAEA Ambassador  Ansar Parvez  said in a Sept.
27 interview when the country assumed the rotating chairmanship
of the IAEA’s board of governors. He called Pakistan “a model
member” of the IAEA. Parvez didn’t respond to an e-mail
yesterday seeking additional comment. Pakistan’s IAEA mission in
Vienna didn’t respond to three phone calls made during business
hours yesterday.  “It is a safe bet” that most of Pakistan’s domestically
mined uranium has gone into weapons, former U.S. Energy
Department Director of Intelligence  Rolf Mowatt-Larssen  said in
an interview. There are concerns that terrorists may target the
mines, he said.  Second-Biggest Recipient  Pakistan, which has about 60 atomic bombs, has been the
second-biggest  recipient  of IAEA technical aid since exploding
six test bombs 12 years ago, according to IAEA data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  The country received $16.6 million for more than 40
projects, including development assistance to the Dera Ghazi
Khan uranium mine, 475 kilometers (295 miles) southwest of
Islamabad, connected by road to a factory for turning uranium
ore into metal for warheads.  The mine is about 25 kilometers from the Dera Ghazi Khan
Nuclear Site, Pakistan’s biggest facility for making plutonium
for bombs, according to the  Institute for Science and
International Security  in Washington and satellite photographs.  The IAEA has trained Pakistani geologists, sent in mining
experts and provided radiometric survey equipment to find
uranium, according to UN project reports published in 1991,
1996, 2002, and 2009.  Mine Visits  Two former uranium geologists sent to Pakistan by the IAEA
in 2003 described their Pakistani counterparts as evasive. One
geologist said he was denied a visit to the Dera Ghazi mine and
was instead brought to help Pakistani counterparts prospect for
new uranium deposits. Both scientists declined to be identified
because the details of their work at the agency aren’t public.  A five-year project funded in 1997, the year before
Pakistan’s nuclear-bomb tests, showed the IAEA “enhanced
capability in uranium exploration” in Pakistan’s Qabul Khel
uranium mine, located in the violent Northwest Frontier
Province, and helped lift production of yellowcake -- material
needed to make bombs -- a February 2002 IAEA report said.  “The agency has provided continuous assistance” to
Pakistan’s “uranium-exploration activities,” the IAEA wrote in
a one-page December 2006 document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Tirone  in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  