-- Palaedino Starts Gold-Denominated Share Class to Boost Fund Product Return
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-12-15T07:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/palaedino-starts-gold-denominated-share-class-to-boost-fund-product-return.html
Palaedino Group, which oversees 1.1
billion Swiss francs ($1.1 billion), is allowing investors in
the asset management unit to add gold returns to the performance
of its four funds after the metal gained to a record.  From today, investors have an option to subscribe to the
Axiom funds via a “gold share class” in euros,  Jerome Berset ,
a portfolio manager at Palaedino Asset Management SA, said
yesterday by phone from Geneva. Gains or losses from gold prices
will be included on top of the funds’ performance, he said.  “It’s a hedge against potential debasement of the euro and
also against inflation,” Berset said. “Some of our investors
will switch a small part of the allocation from their euro share
class to the gold one for diversification purposes.”  Palaedino is the latest firm to establish gold-denominated
share classes, diversifying from currencies as asset managers
seek to boost returns. Paulson & Co., the New York-based hedge-
fund firm run by billionaire John Paulson, and Bermuda-based
 Osmium Capital Management Ltd.  also offer these share classes.
Immediate-delivery gold rose 27 percent this year and reached a
record $1,431.25 an ounce on Dec. 7.  Money invested through the gold share class will be
converted into ounces of gold, and Palaedino will hedge its
holdings by selling the metal for cash and buying over-the-
counter forward metal, Berset said.  Gold Advances  Low interest rates combined with expanding money supply
from government stimulus have fueled investor interest in the
metal, which Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicts will climb to
$1,690 an ounce in 12 months, implying an increase of about 20
percent. Prices will peak in 2012, the bank said.  Gold assets in exchange-traded products  totaled  2,091.6
metric tons yesterday, up 16 percent this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg from 10 providers. Holdings reached a
record 2,104.65 tons on Oct. 14.  Palaedino’s unit manages four funds, with total assets of
500 million Swiss francs.  Axiom Global Equity  has annualized
returns of 6.4 percent since end-2007; Axiom Global Fixed Income
has returned 5.9 percent and the Global Diversified Fund 1.7
percent on an annualized basis. The fourth fund, the Axiom UCITS
Alternative Investible Index will start this month with 25
million euros, according to Berset.  The company’s funds are UCITS-compliant, funds known by the
acronym for Undertakings for Collective Investment in
Transferable Securities, which are subject to regulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  