-- Pemex Finance Chief Sees Debt Soaring to $56 Billion on 2011 Funding Needs
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2010-12-15T22:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/pemex-may-raise-10-billion-in-bonds-loans-in-2011-cfo-says.html
Petroleos Mexicanos, Latin America’s
largest oil producer, said debt may rise to a record $56 billion
next year as it boosts spending to stem output declines.  Pemex, as Mexico’s state-owned oil company is known, plans
to raise as much as $10 billion next year through bank loans or
bond sales in domestic and international markets, Chief
Financial Officer  Carlos Trevino  said today in an interview in
Mexico City. Spending will climb to 320 billion pesos ($26
billion), up from this year’s 250 billion pesos.  “This debt level is very manageable,” Trevino said.
“What is not sustainable in the long term is to keep growing
the total debt.”  The oil producer, which provides about a third of the
government’s revenue, estimates production will decline for a
seventh straight year in 2011 to 2.55 million barrels a day. It
plans to hire foreign companies to maximize reserves in older
fields and explore in deep waters in the Gulf of Mexico, where
Pemex estimates it may have 30 billion barrels.  Pemex dollar-denominated 10-year bonds fell 1.63 cents to
100.875 cents on the dollar, the most today since the security
was reissued on Sept. 30. The yield on the bond due 2021 rose 20
basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, to 5.39 percent.  Total Debt  Plans to raise as much as $10 billion, most of which will
be used to refinance current debt, would increase total debt
from $53.1 billion at the end of this year, Trevino said.
Including pension liabilities, Mexico City-based Pemex’s debt
may be as much as $120 billion, Board Member  Rogelio Gasca  said
May 27.  Trevino, who is stepping down as CFO next month to take the
post of chief administration officer, said that Pemex, finance
ministry officials and lawmakers will start negotiating some
measures to reduce debt and boost profit.  Pemex is asking Mexico’s finance ministry to absorb the
company’s pension liabilities and to cut taxes for some new oil
projects, Trevino said. Mexico’s Senate may approve a proposal
to reduce taxes for Pemex by March, opposition Senator  Francisco Labastida  said in a Nov. 12 interview.  Pemex reported a third-quarter net loss of 2.8 billion
pesos, the third quarterly loss for the company in the past
year.  ‘New Arena’  Trevino said Pemex is also looking into joint ventures, as
well as merger and acquisition opportunities to improve the
financial performance of the company.  “This is a new arena for Pemex, and we’re on the lookout
for projects from power co-generation to acquiring refining
capacity outside Mexico,” Trevino said. The combined value of
any such deals wouldn’t exceed $5 billion, he said.  The company may attract as much as $10 billion of private
investments a year for exploration and production once newly
created performance-based contracts are offered for deep-water
projects, Trevino said.  Pemex created performance-based contracts to reward private
contractors that produce the most at its fields. Pemex is
targeting companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp.,   Royal Dutch Shell
Plc  and BP Plc to explore and produce oil from deep and ultra-
deep waters on the Mexican side of the Gulf of Mexico.  So far, Pemex has drilled 15 deep-water wells there. Six of
the wells have been dry. The remaining wells have produced
mostly natural gas and some oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos M. Rodriguez  in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 