-- Harrisburg, Pennsylvania's Capital, Is Declared `Financially Distressed'
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-12-15T18:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/pennsylvania-capital-harrisburg-declared-financially-distressed-by-state.html
Harrisburg, the capital of
 Pennsylvania , was declared “financially distressed” under the
state’s  Act 47  program after missing $50 million in bond
payments it guaranteed this year on an incinerator project.  The city of 47,000, which has considered seeking bankruptcy
protection, is the 20th municipality to enter the 23-year-old
program, the Department of Community and Economic Development
said in a statement today. The department will appoint a
coordinator who will have 90 days to develop a recovery plan for
consideration by the mayor and City Council.  Harrisburg sought aid under Pennsylvania’s Act 47 for
distressed communities in the face of $282 million in debt it
has guaranteed for an incinerator operated by the independent
Harrisburg Authority. City officials could still seek bankruptcy
protection without the state’s approval, Jamie Yates, a
spokeswoman for the community department, said in an e-mail.  “This is an important first step on the city’s road to
fiscal recovery,” Mayor  Linda Thompson , a first-term Democrat
who opposes bankruptcy, said in a statement e-mailed by her
office. “There will be difficult choices to be made by the
city’s leaders as we craft a comprehensive long-term recovery
plan. But, we have an opportunity to become the model for
comeback cities, and it is my intention to seize that
opportunity.”  Payments Skipped  Harrisburg’s missed payments on the incinerator bonds this
year include $35 million that was paid to holders of 2007 Series
C and 2007 Series D bondholders today by Dauphin County, which
encompasses the city and is a co-guarantor of a portion of the
bonds.  The city has been sued over the missed payments by the
county and by the bonds’ insurer, Hamilton, Bermuda-based
 Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp .  “We view Harrisburg’s qualifying for protection under Act
47 as very positive for developing a restructuring plan that
will allow the City and Authority to meet their obligations to
bondholders, AGM and the county,” Assured said in a statement.  A 1997 Harrisburg zero-coupon bond issued at 5.5 percent
and maturing in January 2019 traded in September to yield 8.303
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Act 47 ruling was made after determining that
Harrisburg had failed to meet its debt obligations to various
parties and that outstanding claims exceeded 30 percent of the
city’s budget with no ability to negotiate a resolution of
adjustment, according to the Community and Economic Development
Department statement.  “This determination will bring objectivity and financial
expertise to a city that desperately needs a path to fiscal
recovery,” Austin Burke, secretary of the department, said in
the statement. “Taxpayers, creditors and investors will take
comfort in knowing that Harrisburg is headed in the right
direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 