-- Pimco Raises Mortgage, Government Debt, Cuts Emerging
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-12-15T22:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/pimco-s-gross-raises-holdings-of-u-s-debt-for-the-first-time-since-june.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., last
month raised holdings of U.S. government-related debt for the
first time since June and also added to mortgage securities.  Gross increased the proportion of U.S. government and
related securities in Pimco’s $250 billion Total Return Fund to
30 percent of assets in November from 28 percent in October,
according to a report placed on the company’s  website . He raised
mortgages to 43 percent, the highest since July 2009, from 39
percent a month earlier. Pimco doesn’t comment directly on
monthly changes in its portfolio holdings.  Gross, who reduced holdings of government debt for four
straight months, said in October that asset purchases by the
Federal Reserve will probably signify the end of the 30-year
rally in bonds. The yield on the 10-year note touched a seven-
month high today on evidence the economy is recovering,
encouraging investors to unwind bets the securities will rise.
U.S. debt also dropped on speculation President  Barack Obama ’s
agreement to extend tax cuts will pass in Congress, supporting
growth and increasing the budget deficit.  Pimco’s U.S. government-related debt category can include
conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency debt,
interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options and bank
debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to
the Newport Beach, California-based company’s website.  The Total Return Fund was the second-biggest decliner among
the largest U.S. bond managers in the month to Dec. 8 as clients
pulled money for the first time in two years amid a selloff in
Treasuries.  ‘Smart Money’  The fund fell 3 percent in the 30 days through Dec. 8,
trailing all but one of the 10 largest bond mutual funds, which
lost an average of 2 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Only the $33 billion Vanguard Inflation-Protected
Securities Fund declined more, falling 3.9 percent in the
period.  The yield on the 10-year note increased two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.52 percent at 5:16 p.m. yesterday 
in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the
2.625 percent security maturing in November 2020 dropped 6/32,
or $1.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 92 19/32.  Gross’s  fund  has returned 6.94 percent in the past year,
beating 68 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It lost 2.4 percent over the past month.  Emerging Markets  Pimco cut holdings of emerging-market debt to 8 percent
from 12 percent and the bonds of non-U.S. developed nations
declined to 4 percent last month from 7 percent the previous
month.  Gross said in his December investment outlook that
investors will flock to emerging markets until developed nations
compete better by making more goods and making them better.  “The smart money will continue to move offshore to Asia,
Brazil and other developing economies, both in asset and in
currency space,” Gross wrote in his monthly investment outlook
posted on Pimco’s website Dec. 1.  Raised Forecasts  The firm has championed the idea of the new normal, in
which investors will receive lower-than-historically average
returns as global growth slows and the influence of the U.S. is
diminished.  Pimco raised its forecast for U.S. growth next year as
policy makers pump a “massive amount” of stimulus into the
economy after Obama accepted a deal on Dec. 6 that would extend
current tax rates for high-income taxpayers for two more years.
The accord also calls for extending federal unemployment
insurance for the long-term jobless and cutting the payroll tax
by $120 billion for one year.  The economy is likely to grow 3 percent to 3.5 percent in
the fourth quarter of next year from the same period of this
year, Chief Executive Officer  Mohamed El-Erian  said in a
telephone interview on Dec. 9. That compares with Pimco’s
previous estimate for 2 percent to 2.5 percent growth, and the
2.2 percent gain forecast for this year by the International
Monetary Fund.  Gross changed the Total Return Fund’s net cash-and-
equivalent position to negative 10 percent from negative 11
percent. It can have a so-called negative position by using
derivatives, futures or by shorting.  Derivatives are financial obligations whose value is
derived from an underlying asset. Futures are agreements to buy
or sell assets at a later specific price and date. Shorting is
borrowing and selling an asset in anticipation of making a
profit by buying it back after its price has fallen.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer Allianz SE,
managed $1.236 trillion of assets as of September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  