-- Cliff Lee Says He's Rejoining Phillies' Team `He Never Wanted to Leave'
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-12-16T06:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/pitcher-cliff-lee-signs-five-year-120-million-agreement-with-phillies.html
Cliff Lee  is once again with the
Philadelphia Phillies, bolstering a pitching rotation that now
has four All-Stars and two Cy Young Award winners.  “I never wanted to leave this place in the first place,”
Lee said at a news conference yesterday after signing a five-
year, $120 million contract. “To get an opportunity to come
back and be a part of this team and this pitching rotation is
going to be something that’s historic.”  The deal includes a vesting option for 2016, the Major
League Baseball team said in a statement released yesterday, a
day after the agreement was reached.  Lee, 32, went 12-9 with a 3.18 earned run average for the
Seattle Mariners and Texas Rangers last season, helping the
Rangers to their first World Series appearance.  He was the most sought-after pitcher on the free-agent
market this year, turning down offers from the Rangers and New
York Yankees that were reported to be more lucrative. Instead,
he returned to Philadelphia, where he pitched the final two
months of the 2009 season.  “Going into the offseason, I wasn’t sure how serious the
Phillies were going to be,” Lee said. “So, I guess there was a
point in time where it was, in my mind, just the Rangers and the
Yankees. This kind of developed in just the past four, five, six
days.”  Lee dismissed the idea that he spurned the Yankees because
of harassment of his wife by New York fans during the American
League Championship Series.  “That was way overblown,” he said. “It was false and had
zero to do with the whole thing.”  Leaves Money  Asked if he left money at the negotiating table due to the
fact that Phillies’ accord was for fewer years than the offer
made by the Yankees, Lee said, “I guess I did.”  “There’s plenty of money,” he said. “When you hit a
certain point, enough’s enough. It’s just a matter of where you
are comfortable, where you are happy.”  Milwaukee Brewers first baseman  Prince Fielder  said Lee’s
decision to leave money on the table likely won’t start a trend
among other players.  “It’s great for him that he came back to the National
League, and as far as turning down money, that was his choice,
but everybody has their own opinion,” Fielder said at a press
conference in Tokyo today during a visit to promote baseball in
Asia. “I don’t think just because he did that everybody is
going to start doing it.”  Cy Young winner  Lee, the 2008 Cy Young winner as the American League’s top
pitcher joins a starting rotation that includes  Roy Halladay ,
who unanimously won the award in the National League last season,
as well as former World Series Most Valuable Player  Cole Hamels 
and All-Star  Roy Oswalt .  Lee has a career record of 102-61 with a 3.85 ERA over nine
seasons with the Cleveland Indians, Phillies, Mariners and
Rangers. He’s 7-2 with a 2.13 ERA in 10 postseason starts.  Lee came to Philadelphia at the trade deadline two seasons
ago and helped the Phillies reach the World Series. He went 4-0
with a 1.56 ERA in five postseason starts, twice beating the
Yankees in a six-game World Series loss.  With uncertainty about being able to re-sign Lee to a long-
term deal, the Phillies traded him to the Mariners and acquired
Halladay from the Toronto Blue Jays.  ‘More Leverage’  “We had an opportunity to acquire a player that we had a
little more leverage over, so to speak,” Phillies General
Manager  Ruben Amaro  Jr. said of the trades that brought Halladay
and some minor-league prospects. “It was always about making
sure that we could extend our opportunity to have a championship,
and to indeed keep some talent in our system.”  Lee has pitched in the World Series in each of the past two
seasons, coming up short of a championship both times.  Asked about expectations of the Phillies rising to “World
Series or bust” status, Lee responded: “That’s perfect.”  “Every player going into spring training should have those
expectations,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 