-- Qatar Places $65 Billion Bet on Remaking Economy in World Cup Preparation
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-12-16T09:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/qatar-makes-65-billion-bet-it-can-remake-economy-in-world-cup-preparation.html
The stadium where Qatar will host
the 2022 World Cup final isn’t built yet. Neither is the city.  Getting the Persian Gulf sheikhdom ready for the world’s
most-watched sporting event will cost as much as $65 billion,
 Merrill Lynch  estimates. That’s about $41,000 per person in
Qatar, and only 20 percent of them are citizens.  Qatar, holder of the world’s third-largest natural-gas
reserves, aims to transform itself into a global hub to compete
with destinations like Dubai and Istanbul. While the  preparation 
will keep growth above 10 percent in the next five to seven
years, the country of 1.6 million still has to figure out how it
can continue to benefit from the investment after the games are
over, said  Robin McCall , acting chief executive officer of Al
Khalij Commercial Bank in the capital, Doha.  “Qatar would have to make a decision to become a tourist
destination and they’ll have to come up with a plan on what to
do with the hotels afterwards,” said  Marios Maratheftis , a
Dubai-based economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “Do they need
to convert them into something else and what would that be?”  Qatar will build nine stadiums and refurbish three more and
plans to equip each with solar-powered air conditioning to fight
temperatures that approach 50 degrees Celsius (122 Fahrenheit)
in the summer. The sheikdom promised  FIFA , world soccer’s
governing body, to more than double hotel and apartment rooms to
84,000 and build a $25 billion rail and metro network. South
Africa said it spent about $11.4 billion preparing for the 2010
World Cup, or about $232 per person.  Catalyst  “The event is a catalyst for the development and the
expansion of the economy and population overall,” said Mark
Proudly, associate director at property adviser DTZ Research in
Doha. “It will put Qatar on the map and that helps to raise its
profile and make it into a major international city.”  Qatar aims to become a knowledge-based economy focused on
areas like research and education, so the most complimentary
industry for investment would be manufacturing, said Maratheftis
of  Standard Chartered . More than 50 percent of Qatar’s revenue
comes from natural gas exports, making the country vulnerable to
fluctuating energy prices.  “Post World Cup, will you need 60,000 to 90,000 rooms and
will it be sustainable?” asked Al Khaliji’s  McCall . “That’s a
concern, having this legacy infrastructure that will hardly be
used.”  Qatar gets about 1 million visitors a year and expects that
to increase by 20 percent in the next five years, FIFA said in
its report on the country’s bid. Dubai had 7.2 million visitors
in the first half of this year, Khaleej Times reported on July
18, citing  Mohammed Al Marri , head of Dubai’s Directorate of
Residency and Foreigners Affairs.  Empty Desert  The site of the 2022 World Cup final is now mostly empty
desert dotted with a few cranes and piles of gravel on the
northern outskirts of Doha. Qatar plans to build Lusail, a city
of 200,000 hosting the final that will be linked to the rest of
the country by new roads and railways. It’s also building an
airport, a seaport and a 40-kilometer (25-mile) bridge linking
the country to neighboring Bahrain.  Most of the work will be completed in seven years, Prime
Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim  Bin Jaber Al-Thani  said on Dec.
14.  “It’s unlikely in the extreme that productive use will be
made of the facilities that are built,” said  Andrew Zimbalist ,
professor of economics at Smith College and an author of books
on the sports industry. “Tourism estimates are not likely to
produce any substantial benefit, at least with regard to a
return on the investment.”  Builder Boost  Construction and real estate companies gained in Dubai on
Dec. 6, the first trading day after the winning bid was
announced, on speculation that they will win contracts in Qatar.
 Arabtec Holding PJSC , the biggest builder in the United Arab
Emirates, surged the most since March. Emaar Properties PJSC
rose 1.6 percent after saying a day earlier it will pursue
contracts in the country.  Hochtief AG, Germany’s biggest construction company, agreed
in May to form a joint venture to develop Lusail. Qatar’s
sovereign wealth fund this month agreed to buy a 9.1 percent
stake in the builder, which is fighting a takeover bid by
Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA of Spain.  Barwa Real Estate Co. , Qatar’s biggest publicly traded
property developer by assets, has advanced 8.1 percent in the
nine days since the FIFA announcement.  Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund agreed to buy a 9.1 percent
stake in  Hochtief AG , Germany’s biggest construction company on
Dec. 6, investing almost 400 million euros ($534 million.)  Ready to Start  To be sure, most of the infrastructure projects had been
planned before Qatar was chosen by FIFA over the U.S.,
Australia, South Korea and Japan. A number of those that were
stalled may be re-started and others may be accelerated, said
Shahzad Shabaz, chief executive officer of  QInvest LLC , a Qatari
Islamic investment bank. An example is the $3 billion bridge to
Bahrain, which was supposed to be started in February 2009 and
hasn’t begun yet.  The deepest financial crisis since the great depression has
stalled billions of dollars worth of projects in the Gulf. A
construction drive that has left Qatar with an oversupply of
both residential and commercial properties led rents to drop by
as much as 30 percent. Vacancies now range from 15 percent to 20
percent, DTZ’s Proudly said.  Qatar’s  QE Index  of the country’s 20 leading publicly
listed companies has gained 7.2 percent since the World Cup
announcement on Dec. 2.  Dubai’s Gain  Dubai, in the nearby U.A.E., will be the second-biggest
beneficiary of the World Cup as some visitors take the chance to
see attractions such as the world’s tallest tower, said  Chet Riley , a Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst based in the emirate.  “There will be an overflow effect,” he said. “Some
people will stay in Dubai and travel to Qatar to watch certain
games.”  A sharing arrangement that accommodates spectators in
places like Dubai “makes economic sense” and could reduce the
need to build hotels Qatar will have no use for later, said  Mark McFarland , an economist at Dubai-based Emirates NBD.  The World Cup may help shift lending from the public
sector, where it has been concentrated over the past year, to
the private sector, said McCall of  Al Khaliji Bank . Moody’s
Investors Service, which estimated Qatar’s spending at $57
billion over the next decade, also said the event “will create
new lending activity for all banks.”  Soccer Midget  Qatar’s national soccer team ranks 113th in the world,
according FIFA’s website. The smallest country to host a World
Cup so far was Uruguay, home to the first tournament in 1930. At
the time the population was similar to Qatar’s today at about
1.73 million, though only about 20 percent of people in the
middle east country are Qatari nationals. A total of 13 nations
competed in the first tournament, compared with 32 in the 2010
World Cup in South Africa.  The country’s World Cup bid includes plans to limit the
amount of construction left over after the event. The stadiums
can be partly or fully dismantled after the tournament, with
about half the seats shipped to developing countries.  In addition to hotels, guest apartments and compounds will
be used to accommodate visitors and a cruise ship is to provide
accommodation of about 6,000 football fans, according to the
FIFA report.  The sheikhdom’s gas reserves have made it the second-
richest country per capita behind Lichtenstein. Its economy has
grown at an average annual rate of 17 percent over the past five
years amid rising liquefied gas production, International
Monetary Fund data show.  Financially Sound  “Qatar has been active through this financial crisis
without it having a significant impact,” said  Abdul Hakeem Mostafawi , chief executive officer of HSBC Qatar. “Having the
World Cup will improve things even further.”  The tournament may push rental rates for homes by as much
as 15 percent in the next one to two years, Proudly said. “That
won’t have anything to do with supply and demand. It will be
solely on the back of landlords being optimistic and more
bullish in their predictions,”.  Zimbalist of Smith College pointed out that South Africa
attracted fewer foreign visitors than expected in 2010 and
tourism estimates for Qatar don’t indicate a good return on its
investment.  “It’s a lot of money for not very much productive
results,” he said. “If I had been advising the government, I
would have said ‘don’t do it.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net 
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net .
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 