-- Queensland Commits $99 Million to Fund Solar Power Projects in Australia
-- B y   B a l d a v e   S i n g h
-- 2010-12-15T11:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/queensland-commits-a-100-million-to-fund-solar-power-projects-in-australia.html
The Queensland state government in
Australia will provide as much as A$100 million ($99 million) in
funding to develop two commercial-scale solar projects.  The funding amount is based on the condition that both
projects under consideration for the federal government’s Solar
Flagships Program are developed in Queensland, state Energy
Minister  Stephen Robertson  said today in a statement. “If only
one Queensland project is approved by the Commonwealth, the
funding will be reduced,” he said.  The state funding will be for projects selected under the
federal solar p rogram , which is intended to support the
construction of large-scale sun-powered plants in Australia
through grants totaling A$1.5 billion. The government is
targeting that the program will lead to the development as much
as 1,000 megawatts of solar power generation capacity.  The first round of federal funding is for one solar thermal
project, where the sun’s energy makes steam that’s then used to
generate power, and a photovoltaic station, where solar energy
is converted directly to produce electricity.  The federal government in May shortlisted eight companies
for the first round of the program, with four of them planning
to develop their projects in Queensland.  AGL Energy Ltd.  is the
only company that is planning a PV plant in Queensland that has
been shortlisted for possible funding under the solar program.  AGL is proposing to build a 320-megawatt plant. The
shortlisted companies in the state also include  Parsons
Brinckerhoff  and  Transfield Holdings  for 150-megawatt plants and
 Wind Prospect CWP  for a 250-megawatt station.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Baldave Singh 
 bsingh35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  