-- Rand Climbs to One Month High on Expectations Bank Won't Cut Rates Further
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-12-15T15:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/rand-weakens-on-spanish-rating-downgrade-concerns-weaker-precious-metals.html
The rand gained to its strongest in
more than a month against the dollar after a report showing
higher-than-estimated producer inflation reinforced expectations
the central bank won’t cut its benchmark interest rate further.  South Africa’s currency appreciated as much as 0.6 percent
to 6.7830 per dollar, the strongest level since Nov. 5. The rand
traded 0.3 percent stronger at 6.8062 by 4:38 p.m. in
Johannesburg, from a previous close of 6.8238.  Producer price inflation was 6.2 percent last month,
according to the Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa , more
than the  median estimate  in a Bloomberg survey for a reading of
6 percent.  “PPI inflation has surprised to the upside,”  Standard
Bank Group Ltd.  analyst Tebogo Mosepele in Johannesburg wrote in
a research note after the release of the data. “The monetary
policy easing cycle has bottomed, with the repo rate likely to
remain on hold” for the whole of next year, he said.  South Africa’s  Reserve Bank  has cut its benchmark interest
rate nine times since December 2008 to 5.5 percent, the lowest
level since the so-called repurchase rate, or repo, was first
introduced in 1999. Scope for further reductions may be limited
after a report yesterday showed consumer inflation quickened for
a second month in November, accelerating to 3.6 percent and
extending its climb from the lower end of the central bank’s 3
to 6 percent target band.  “Interest rates are expected to remain unchanged
throughout next year,” Carmen Altenkirch, an economist at
Nedbank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, wrote in a client note
today.  Yield Advantage  South Africa’s relatively high interest rate benefits the
rand by giving it a yield advantage over currencies from
developed nations, where interest rates are as low as 0.1
percent in Japan and 0.25 percent in the U.S. The rand has
surged 37 percent since the start of last year as near-zero
rates in developed markets encouraged investors to place their
money in markets offering higher returns.  “Inflows into South African bonds and equities are still
supportive of the rand,”  Elisabeth Gruie , an emerging-markets
currency strategist in London at BNP Paribas SA, France’s
biggest bank, said in a telephone interview.  Foreign investors have purchased a net 102 billion rand
($15 billion) of South African stocks and bonds this year,
according to data from the JSE Ltd., the company that operates
the exchanges.  Government bonds fell in South Africa for a third day, with
the benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015 dropping
1 cent to 123.75 rand. The yield was unchanged at 7.45 percent.  Earlier today the rand weakened as much as 0.4 percent to
6.8537 per dollar after Moody’s Investors Service said Spain’s
Aa1 credit rating may be lowered, hurting investor’s appetite
for higher-yield assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  