-- Rare-Earth Mines Should Be Reopened to Ensure Steady Supplies, U.S. Says
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-12-15T18:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/rare-earth-mines-should-be-reopened-to-ensure-steady-supplies-u-s-says.html
Rare-earth materials used in wind
turbines, solar panels and clean-energy products are “at risk”
of being disrupted and the U.S. should reopen mines to assure a
steady supply, an Energy Department official said.  The department in a study of 14 elements zeroed in on five
rare earths and found that supplies of dysprosium, which is used
to make wind turbines and electric vehicles, may fall short of
demand, said  David Sandalow , the Energy Department’s assistant
secretary for policy and international affairs.  The risk of disrupting supplies may increase as more clean-
energy technologies are developed, even after China, which
produces at least 90 percent of the world’s rare-earth metals,
pledged to provide sufficient supplies, he said. The U.S. should
restart mining rare-earth materials and promote recycling of
products with these elements to meet demand, he said.  “Reopening domestic production is an important part of a
globalized supply chain,” Sandalow said today at a conference
sponsored by the Center for Strategic and International Studies
in Washington.  Wind turbines, photovoltaic cells and electric vehicles
account for about 20 percent of global demand for rare-earth
metals, the Energy Department said in a report today. It takes 7
to 10 years to obtain permits to open a new mine in the U.S.,
the longest among the top-25 mining countries, according to the
report. The Energy Department plans to begin research into
critical materials and to work with Japan and nations in Europe
to lower the risk of supply disruptions.  Molycorp, Lynas  Molycorp Inc., owner of the world’s largest non-Chinese
deposit of rare-earth metals, and Lynas Corp. both plan to open
mines in the next two years to meet demand, which is forecast by
the Chinese Rare Earths Industry Association to rise almost two-
thirds by 2015. Greenwood Village, Colorado-based Molycorp rose
as much as 12 percent today in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Molycorp has almost tripled since its first day of
trading July 29.  Molycorp plans to restart a California mine in the second
half of 2011 and produce about 20,000 metric tons of rare earth
oxides by the end of 2012, it said in October. The Mountain Pass
mine met almost all the world’s rare-earth metals demand before
closing eight years ago.  “The availability of a number of these materials is at
risk due to their location, vulnerability to supply disruptions
and lack of suitable substitutes,” according to the report.  Training Engineers  The U.S. needs to promote training of engineers and
scientists on rare earths and their use, Sandalow said. Rare
earths are “broadly distributed” worldwide, he said.  While thousands of scientists and engineers are studying
rare earths in China, only dozens are doing so in the U.S., he
said.  “We need to develop the human capital here to promote
these technologies in the decades ahead,” Sandalow said.  China holds about 36 percent of the world’s rare-earth
element reserves, according to the report. China’s commerce
ministry and other agencies are still working to decide rare-
earth export quotas for 2011,  Yao Jian , a ministry spokesman,
said at a regular briefing held in Beijing today.  “We expect 2011 export quotas to be similar or slightly
lower, compared with this year,”  Peng Bo , an analyst at Guosen
Securities Co., said in a telephone interview from Shenzhen.  Rare-earth exports from China declined 77 percent in
October from a month earlier, according to the General
Administration of Customs on Nov. 23.  China Production  The U.S. began producing rare-earth elements in the
mid-1960’s in Mountain Pass, California, and dominated global
output until 1984, according to the report. Low production costs
helped China become the world’s top producer in 1996. The four
main high-yield rare-earth-element-bearing minerals are
bastnaesite, monazite, xenotime and ion adsorption clays.  China introduced export quotas on rare-earth elements in
1999, according to the report. From 2005 to 2009, exports fell
by more than 20 percent to about 50,000 tons. In July, China
imposed the tightest quota yet, leading to a 40 percent annual
drop in exports.  “Production within the United States is vitally
important,” according to the report. “Options to simplify
permitting may include improved coordination between state and
federal agencies as well as among federal agencies during all
stages of permitting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 