-- Real Estate Avoids `Catastrophe' With Yields at '07 Levels: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-12-15T16:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/real-estate-avoids-catastrophe-with-yields-at-07-levels-credit-markets.html
Investor confidence in U.S.
commercial property is the highest since the 2007 market peak, a
sentiment reflected in bonds of real-estate companies that own
everything from New York skyscrapers to California strip malls.  Yields on debt issued by real-estate investment trusts
average 210 basis points more than Treasuries, the least since
Nov. 12, 2007, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. The debt has returned 13.2 percent this year, trumping an
8 percent gain by investment-grade bonds.  The debt of companies that own offices, shopping centers,
apartments and warehouses has rallied as a dearth of new
development spurs demand “little by little,” according to
billionaire investor  Sam Zell , chairman of Chicago-based
apartment owner  Equity Residential . The  Moody’s/REAL Commercial
Property Price Index  has been little changed since October 2009
after plunging 45 percent in two years.  “If there is no new supply, then the catastrophe that
everybody was expecting isn’t going to happen,” Zell, 69, said
in a telephone interview. “Commercial real estate is not
suffering and is in fact getting better,” said Zell, the
founder of Equity Office Properties Trust, the biggest U.S.
office owner before Blackstone LP bought it in a record-breaking
leveraged buyout in 2007.  REITs have issued $17.7 billion of bonds this year, the
most since 2006, Bloomberg data show. The sales helped refinance
existing debt and bolster balance sheets as rents and
occupancies stabilize, debt-research firm CreditSights Inc. said
in a report last month.  Nothing Built  “Real estate is all about supply and demand,” said Zell.
“We haven’t built anything in this country since July ‘07.
We’re not building anything right now.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt was unchanged at 171 basis points, or 1.71
percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged 4.021
percent, the highest since June 22.  The cost of protecting company bonds from default in
the U.S. was little changed. The Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 0.1 basis point to a mid-price of 86.1 basis points as
of 11:45 a.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. A rise
today would break a 10-day streak of trading-day declines, the
longest in four years.  Bondholder Protection  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, has dropped
from 99.4 at the end of November as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the central bank may boost purchases of government debt.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  US Airways Group Inc. plans to sell $340.255 million of
pass-through trust certificates as soon as today, according to a
person familiar with the transaction. The airline plans to sell
$262.857 million of class A certificates and $77.398 million of
class B certificates, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  REITs were pummeled in 2008 by the drop in property prices
and a decline in occupancies and rents fueled by the worst
recession since the Great Depression. The bonds lost 29 percent
that year on average as spreads widened to 1,383 basis points in
December 2008 after credit markets seized.  The price of REIT bonds above similarly rated debt has
eliminated the incentive for investors to buy them, said  Thierry Perrein , a senior analyst for Wells Fargo & Co. in Charlotte,
North Carolina.  Rally Over  “The game is over,” said Perrein, who in October cut his
recommendation on the debt to “market perform” from an
“outperform” rating he assigned in May 2009.  “If you’re getting involved now, you kind of missed the
rally,” he said.  REIT debt, which had gained for 10 consecutive months in
the longest winning streak since 2001, declined 2.67 percent
this month, index data show. That compares with a 2.34 percent
loss on investment-grade debt and a gain of 0.92 percent in
high-yield bonds.  The improvement belies predictions by investors including
Inland Real Estate Group Inc. Vice Chairman Joe Cosenza that the
commercial property market had further to fall.  ‘Double-Dip’  In an interview at Bloomberg LP’s Chicago office in July,
Cosenza said a “double-dip” in the commercial real estate
market could have come as soon as September.  The turnaround is being driven in part by the relatively
slim list of distressed properties coming up for sale and
quicker-than-expected rebound in fundamentals such as rents and
vacancy rates, according to Newport Beach, California-based
Green Street Advisors, an independent real estate research firm.  HCP Inc. , the biggest U.S. health-care REIT by market
value, said late Dec. 13 it would pay $6.1 billion for 338
nursing homes from Carlyle Group’s HCR ManorCare Inc. in the
largest REIT deal in three years.  The acquisition is “a good example of public REITs buying
from private-equity firms looking to monetize investments from a
few years ago,” said  Craig Guttenplan , a London-based analyst
at CreditSights, which recommends buying REIT debt.  Boston Properties  Boston Properties Inc. , the U.S. office REIT led by  Mortimer Zuckerman ; and Toledo, Ohio-based  Health Care REIT Inc.  led
$2.63 billion of bond sales for the industry in November, the
most since March, Bloomberg data show.  Sales of bonds linked to commercial real estate loans are
beginning to recover as well. About $10.6 billion of the debt
has been issued this year, up from $3.4 billion in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance may reach $45
billion in 2011, according to a Nov. 24 report from JPMorgan.  Americold Realty Trust, the warehouse operator owned by  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos., sold $600 million of bonds backed by
commercial-mortgage debt, a person familiar with the transaction
said Dec. 9. The offering was secured by refrigerated
warehouses, compared with recent transactions that have been
backed primarily by shopping malls and office buildings.  U.S. apartment vacancies dropped for the first time in
almost three years in the third quarter, suggesting the trend of
people moving in with family or friends might be abating, New
York-based research firm Reis Inc. said.  Fewer Vacancies  Office vacancies in U.S. central business districts
declined for a second consecutive time in the third quarter,
reaching 14.7 percent compared with 14.8 percent in the previous
three months, as tenants signed leases for additional space,
according to broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  The average rent per square foot of REITs operating in
central business districts, including Boston Properties and
 Vornado Realty Trust , increased in the third-quarter, while
declining for REITs focused on suburban area properties, like
 Highwoods Properties Inc.  and  Mack-Cali Realty Corp. , according
to CreditSights’ Nov. 22 report.  “Those non-urban office buildings might be quite a way
from ever being rented again, but everything in New York and the
other 24/7 cities continues to get better every day,” Zell
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  