-- U.K. Taxpayer Support for Banks to Last `For Years,' Spending Monitor Says
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-12-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/treasury-aid-for-u-k-banks-to-last-for-years-watchdog-says.html
U.K. Treasury support for banks is
likely to remain in place for years, and financing the aid is
costing taxpayers 5 billion pounds ($7.9 billion) a year, the
National Audit Office said.  The government had borrowed 124 billion pounds to underpin
the banking system as of Dec. 1, a 7 billion-pound increase on a
year earlier, the spending watchdog said in a report published
in London today. The current market value of stakes in  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group  Plc and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc 
represents a loss of 12.5 billion pounds for taxpayers, it said.  “The risk of further shocks to the financial markets and
of significant loss to the taxpayer has not gone away,” Auditor
General Amyas Morse said in a statement. “The Treasury is
likely to be paying for the support it has provided to banks for
years to come.”  The previous, Labour, administration under  Gordon Brown 
took stakes in RBS and Lloyds, nationalized Northern Rock Plc
and introduced programs to unblock credit markets during the
financial storm that swept the globe in 2007 and 2008.  Taxpayer-backed support for banks has fallen to 512 billion
pounds from 955 billion pounds in December 2009, mainly as a
result of the closure of some programs, repayments and the
maturing of some of the insured assets,  the NAO  said.  The auditor said the 5 billion pounds paid in interest to
finance the stakes taken in RBS and Lloyds is being offset by
9.9 billion pounds in fees and interest charged to institutions
using government support. This income will fall as programs are
terminated, although financing costs will remain while the
government continues to hold shares in the banks, it said.  The Treasury said the government will make a full response
to Parliament on the report in the future.  The Association for Financial Markets in Europe, whose
members include  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and  Deutsche Bank AG ,
welcomed the report and said banking reforms must ensure
taxpayers are not asked to support a failing lender again.  AFME’s members are working on “mechanisms’ that could
ensure a failing bank is refinanced without resorting to
government funding, it said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  