-- Ex-UBS Executives Plead Not Guilty in U.S. Municipal Investment Bid Probe
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-12-15T18:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/three-ex-ubs-executives-plead-not-guilty-in-u-s-investment-contract-probe.html
The former head of  UBS AG’s 
municipal derivatives group and two colleagues pleaded not
guilty today to charges stemming from the U.S. government’s
multiyear investigation of bid-rigging on investment contracts.  Peter Ghavami , Gary Heinz and  Michael Welty  all entered not
guilty pleas at their arraignment today before U.S. District
Judge  John Keenan  in New York. Ghavami is free on a $10 million
personal recognizance bond while Keenan agreed today to release
both Heinz and Welty on $100,000 bonds.  Heinz’s lawyer,  Marc Mukasey , told Keenan that his client
had cooperated with agents of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation when they searched his Jersey City, New Jersey,
apartment almost four years ago and known for years that he was
under investigation.  “The FBI showed up at the same time my client was to take
his father to a football game for his birthday,” Mukasey said.
“He gave them the keys to his apartment and said, ‘Here’s the
keys, just lock the door behind you,’” Mukasey said. “He’s
been more than cooperative.”  All three were indicted Dec. 9 for participating in a bid-
rigging conspiracy. The case is being prosecuted by the Justice
Department’s Antitrust Division.  $2.8 Trillion Market  The antitrust division has ramped up its more than four-
year criminal investigation of the $2.8 trillion municipal bond
market in the past few weeks. On Dec. 7, Bank of America Corp.
agreed to pay $137 million in restitution for its involvement in
the bid-rigging conspiracy.  Ghavami, a Belgian citizen living in Moscow, was arrested
Dec. 1 after arriving at John F. Kennedy International Airport
in New York.  Heinz was also charged with witness tampering in addition
to fraud and conspiracy. In 2006, after learning about the
Justice Department’s investigation, he told one conspirator to
meet with another to coordinate their stories about a rigged
deal, according to the indictment.  Since October 2009, nine bankers and brokers have been
indicted and eight pleaded guilty for cheating taxpayers by
conspiring with brokers to pay states and local government
below-market rates on investments purchased with bond proceeds.  Unindicted Co-Conspirators  The government has identified more than a dozen companies,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , units of  General Electric Co .
and  Societe Generale SA  as unindicted co-conspirators in a
criminal case brought by the Justice Department against a Los
Angeles investment broker, according to court records.  A former  JPMorgan  banker,  James Hertz , pleaded guilty Nov.
30.  The investigation centers on investment agreements that
municipalities enter into with money raised through bond sales.
The so-called guaranteed investment contracts let them earn a
return until the cash is needed for schools, roads or other
public works.  The defendants had allegedly engaged in “complex fraud
schemes and conspiracies that subverted competition in the
market for municipal finance contracts and deprived municipal
bond issuers of the benefits of their investments,” the U.S.
said in a statement announcing the charges.  After court, Ghavami’s lawyer,  Charles Stillman , said, “We
have pleaded not guilty and we’re going to trial.”  Welty’s lawyer, Gregory Poe, said, “Mr. Welty denies these
accusations and we intend to contest them vigorously in court.”  The case is “a misguided prosecution of events that are
nine years old,” Mukasey said. “They concern legitimate
transactions exercised in good faith and we look forward to
demonstrating that at trial.”  The bankers also allegedly participated in a bid-rigging
scheme orchestrated by CDR Financial Products Inc., the Los
Angeles company that was the first to face charges under the
investigation, in October 2009, prosecutors said. Three former
employees of that firm have since pleaded guilty, while three
others are fighting the charges and deny wrongdoing.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-CR-01217, filed in the
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  