-- Tribune Lender Group Drops Proposal, Opens Door for Rival Bankruptcy Plans
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-12-15T20:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/tribune-lenders-group-drops-reorganization-plan-lawyer-says.html
A group of  Tribune Co.  lenders
dropped its reorganization plan for the newspaper publisher
“unilaterally,” without settling their differences with the
hedge funds behind competing proposals, its lawyer said.  The decision “was not the result of mediation or the
result of any agreement”  Evan Flaschen , an attorney who
represents the so-called step-one lenders, said today in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  The step-one lenders hold about $767.7 million of the debt
Tribune borrowed in the first half of the company’s two-part
buyout in 2007. They filed court papers last night announcing
their intention to abandon their proposal for bringing the
company out of bankruptcy by distributing $6.75 billion in
stock, loans and cash to creditors owed about $13 billion.  The withdrawal was a “relatively major development,”
 Norman Pernick , an attorney for Tribune, told U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge  Kevin J. Carey .  A rival group of lenders, led by New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and the hedge funds Angelo Gordon & Co. and Oaktree
Capital Management LP, are sponsoring one of the three remaining
plans and are supported by Chicago-based Tribune, which owns the
Los Angeles Times, television stations and stakes in cable
channels. The other two plans are backed by lower-ranking
creditors.  First Stage  The step-one lenders held  debt  that was used in the first
part of the two-part buyout that took the Tribune private in
2007 using more than $8 billion in loans. They didn’t say
whether they will continue to oppose the other plans when they
come before Carey next year for approval.  The plans differ on how to split up ownership of Tribune
once it exits bankruptcy and on how to address lawsuits over who
was to blame for the buyout, led by  Sam Zell , the real estate
billionaire.  Tribune filed for bankruptcy in 2008, one year after the
buyout. The company owes creditors about $13 billion. The
company is worth about $6.75 billion, according to court
records.  A court-appointed examiner concluded that lower-ranking
creditors were likely to win a lawsuit over the buyout.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 