-- Tribune Step One Lenders Opposed to JPMorgan Alliance Drop Competing Plan
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-12-15T01:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/tribune-step-one-lenders-drop-reorganization-plan-update1-.html
A group of  Tribune Co.  lenders who
opposed the newspaper publisher’s alliance with JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and two hedge funds withdrew its proposal to reorganize the
company.  The group of so-called step one lenders filed court papers
today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
announcing its intention to abandon its reorganization plan, one
of four proposals for bringing the company out of bankruptcy.
That leaves three competing plans that creditors will begin
voting on this month.  “We are not pursing our plan,” step one lender attorney
 Evan Flaschen  said in an e-mail. He declined to answer specific
questions about why the group was no longer pursuing its
proposal.  The step one lenders held debt that was used in the first
part of the two-part buyout that took the company private in
2007 using more than $8 billion in loans.  Another group of lenders, led by JPMorgan and the hedge
funds Angelo Gordon & Co. and Oaktree Capital Management LP are
sponsoring one of the three remaining plans and are supported by
Chicago-based Tribune. The other two plans are backed by lower
ranking creditors.  Tribune spokesman  Gary Weitman  declined to comment.  The plans differ in how to split up ownership of Tribune
once it exits bankruptcy next year and on how they deal with
lawsuits over who was to blame for the buyout, lead by real
estate billionaire  Sam Zell .  Tribune filed for bankruptcy in 2008, one year after the
buyout. The company owes creditors about $13 billion. Tribune,
which owns the Los Angeles Times, the Chicago Tribune,
television stations and stakes in cable channels, is now worth
about $6.75 billion, according to court records.  A court-appointed examiner concluded that lower-ranking
creditors were likely to win a lawsuit over the buyout.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 