-- Trillion-Dollar Bill Packed With `Earmark' Spending Offered in U.S. Senate
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-12-15T18:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/trillion-dollar-bill-packed-with-earmarks-in-u-s-senate.html
A 1,924-page “omnibus”  bill  to
fund the government is headed for a U.S. Senate vote that will
put lawmakers from both parties on the spot over the practice
of earmarking money for their pet projects.  The $1.2 trillion measure, unveiled yesterday by
Democrats, includes thousands of earmarks and comes just a
month after Republicans adopted a nonbinding moratorium on the
projects. The Senate’s Democratic majority aims to overcome
objections with the help of Republicans such as Senators  George Voinovich  of Ohio and  Bob Bennett  of Utah, who scoff at
complaints over the projects.  “I have a disagreement with my colleagues on earmarks,”
said Voinovich, who is retiring after two terms. “We’re
fooling the American people when we tell them the problem is
earmarks.”  Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, urged his
colleagues to deny Democrats the votes needed to advance the
bill that funds federal agencies and programs for the fiscal
year that ends Sept. 30, 2011.  “All of us know that it’s really bad for our party to
pass an omnibus with earmarks,” he told reporters.  The head of the Club for Growth, a Washington-based anti-
tax group, said Republicans backing the bill would face
political repercussions.  ‘Monstrosity’  Lawmakers voting for the “porked-up monstrosity would
forfeit any claim to fiscal responsibility and economic
conservatism,” said  Chris Chocola , president of the Club for
Growth. “Every Republican ‘aye’ vote will likely face a
serious primary challenge in their next re-election campaign,
and should.”  Democrats, who control the Senate with 58 votes, would
need 60 votes to overcome procedural hurdles. Senate
Appropriations Committee Chairman  Daniel Inouye , a Hawaii
Democrat, said yesterday he was confident the measure would be
passed before Congress adjourns for the year.  All but about a dozen senators requested projects,
according to the Senate Appropriations Committee, which has put
some of them in a politically awkward position. Senator  John Thune , a South Dakota Republican mentioned as a possible 2012
presidential candidate, is promising to vote against the
legislation though he secured more than $60 million in earmarks
in the bill.  “I support those projects but I don’t support this bill,
nor do I support the process by which this bill was put
together,” Thune told reporters today.  $8 Billion  The bill’s earmarks would cost about $8 billion, according
to Rob Blumenthal, an Inouye spokesman.  A stopgap measure funding the government expires Dec. 18.
If Senate Democrats fall short of the 60 votes needed to
proceed on their bill, they will likely take up a House-passed
version of the measure that omits earmarks.  Republicans in both chambers have been pushing for a
short-term funding extension that would extend into early next
year. With Republicans taking the majority in the next House
session and the party gaining seats in the Senate, that would
make it easier for them to prevail with promised spending cuts.  The omnibus measure would cap a year that included a
breakdown in the congressional budgeting process, as Democrats
were unable to pass a tax-and-spending blueprint or any of the
12 annual appropriations bills to fund federal agencies for the
fiscal year that began Oct. 1.  War Funding  The legislation includes about $20 billion more than the
House plan, according to a summary provided by the Senate
Appropriations Committee. It would provide $1.108 trillion in
annual appropriations, along with about $160 billion to fund
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  Like the House bill, it includes provisions opposed by the
White House that would bar the administration from bringing
 Khalid Sheikh Mohammed  or other terrorist suspects held at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the U.S. for trial.  Lawmakers, defying a veto threat, also included $450
million to develop a second engine for the Joint Strike
Fighter, which the Pentagon has called a waste of money. The
measure endorses the administration’s call to freeze pay for
non-military federal employees.  Republicans estimated the bill
includes more than $1 billion to begin implementing the
administration’s health-care bill approved earlier this year.  Kennedy Institute  A list provided by Democrats of earmarks in the
legislation runs more than 300 pages. Among the proposals: $8
million for the Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the Senate,
which is to be  located in Boston . Kennedy, a Massachusetts
Democrat, died in August 2009 after a Senate career that
spanned almost 47 years.  Bennett, who worked in the Department of Transportation
during President  Richard Nixon ’s administration, said that
without the earmarks, White House officials would spend money
on their preferred projects and lawmakers would prod agency
heads to fund projects.  “I was on the receiving end of those phone calls,” said
Bennett, who was defeated earlier this year in his bid for a
fourth term. He said the earmarking process is “at least
transparent, and it’s an improvement over the way things used
to be and the way things will go back to being if they succeed
in eliminating the earmark process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  