-- Romanian Constitutional Court Rules in Favor of IMF-Backed Pension Law
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   A n d r a   T i m u   [ ]   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-12-15T12:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/romanian-constitutional-court-rules-in-favor-of-imf-backed-pension-law.html
     Dec. 15 (Bloomberg) --Romania’s  Constitutional Court  ruled
in favor of an  International Monetary Fund -backed pension law
that is mandatory for the country to win another disbursement of
its bailout loan.  The nine judges of the court unanimously said the law,
which sets the retirement age at 63 years for women and 65 years
for men, is constitutional, rejecting challenges from the
opposition, said Acsinte Gaspar, one of the court’s judges, by
phone today. The president must now sign the law for it to
become active.  Romania, the  European Union’s  second-poorest member, is
relying on a 20 billion-euro ($26.7 billion) loan led by the
IMF as it struggles to cut its budget deficit and recover from
its worst  recession  on record. Romania agreed on Nov. 1 to
approve a 2011 budget, enact a unified wage law and revise
consumer-credit and pension rules to unlock a 2.4 billion-euro
installment of the emergency loan.  President  Traian Basescu  refused in October to sign the
law. Instead, he returned it to Parliament requesting a
reduction of the proposed women’s retirement age to 63 years
from 65 years as contained in the initial pension law approved
by lawmakers on Sept. 16.  “The Constitutional Court unanimously rejected the
challenges on the revised pension law,” Gaspar said. “The
president has now 10 days to promulgate the law.”  The new retirement age will take effect in 2030, with
everyone who has contributed to the system for at least 15 years
qualifying for a pension. The law also links future pension
increases to the inflation rate as opposed to the current
average monthly wage tied to raises.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  