-- S&P May Reduce 1,196 Securities Tied to Residential Mortgages After Errors
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-12-15T23:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/s-p-says-it-incorrectly-analyzed-re-remic-mortgage-bonds.html
Standard & Poor’s said it may
downgrade 1,196 securities tied to U.S. residential mortgages
after it “incorrectly analyzed” the bonds because of the way
interest payments on the  debt  are structured.  The securities were created mostly this year in 129
transactions called re-remics, which are formed by repackaging
existing bonds backed by home loans, New York-based S&P said
today in a statement.  “An admission of guilt by a rating agency: How refreshing,
and also what a wonderful Christmas-time present,” said  Sylvain Raynes , a principal at R&R Consulting in New York and co-author
of “Elements of Structured Finance,” published in May by
Oxford University Press. “What I want to know is, is anyone
going to get fired over this?”  More than $85 billion of re-remics have been issued since
the start of last year, as bondholders and Wall Street firms
transformed downgraded home-loan securities into new debt, some
of which receives top grades from rating companies, according to
a Dec. 7 report by Austin, Texas-based Amherst Securities Group.  Bank of America Corp., based in Charlotte, North Carolina,
and Bank of New York Mellon Corp. are among financial companies
that turned to re-remics in the past two years as they
restructured mortgage-bond holdings to lower the amount of
capital they needed or to make it easier to sell the
investments.  “Our written statements are what we are providing,”  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for S&P, said in an e-mail. He declined to
comment further and didn’t answer an e-mailed question about the
principal balances of the securities under review.  ‘Big Implications’  More than $30 billion of the bonds, many of which received
ratings only from S&P, may be affected, according to  Scott Buchta , head of investment strategy at New York-based broker
Braver Stern Securities.  “That could have some big implications for the holders of
these bonds, depending on how much the new ratings get
changed,” he said in an e-mail.  In re-remics, typically senior-ranked mortgage securities
or a series of the bonds get split into new debt, some of which
becomes safer because it ranks higher than the rest. The process
mirrors the original securitization of the loans.  When S&P initially assessed the likelihood that the re-
remics now under review would fail to pay scheduled interest, it
“did not incorporate an analysis” of the effects of some of
the securities paying interest to multiple classes in equal
amounts, instead of sequentially in order of seniority,
according to two statements by the ratings company.  ‘Incorrectly Analyzed’  “Previously, we incorrectly analyzed the timely interest
payments,” S&P analysts Jeremy Schneider and  Becky Cao  said in
one of the statements. S&P is a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos.  Financial-overhaul legislation passed in July directed
regulators to seek ways to eliminate their use of ratings after
lawmakers and investors, including public pension funds, accused
S&P and Moody’s Investors Service of fueling the financial
crisis by giving top rankings to mortgage bonds to win revenue.  State insurance overseers had already moved to suspend
their use of credit ratings on residential- and commercial-
mortgage securities in assessing the capital needs of companies
they regulate. They now rely instead on reviews by money
managers Pacific Investment Management Co. and  BlackRock  Inc.
The new protocol reduced the capital needs of insurers because
credit ratings are often based on the probability of defaults,
rather than the size of expected losses.  Insufficient Resources  S&P and Moody’s, which both reported record profits from
2004 through 2008, “failed to assign sufficient resources to
adequately rate new products and test the accuracy of existing
ratings,” according to the U.S. Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee
on  Investigations .  About 96 percent of subprime-mortgage securities that were
granted top ratings when issued in 2007 now have fallen below
investment grade, according to Amherst.  S&P rated the second-most re-remics issued in the first
half of this year, after DBRS Inc., according to industry
newsletter  Asset-Backed Alert . Assessments of the debt by Fitch
Ratings, last year’s top grader, dried up after that firm
toughened its standards.  About two-thirds of the classes that S&P placed under
review were from this year and one-quarter were issued last
year, according to its statement.  Today’s announcement by S&P follows a September statement
in which the firm said it had to lower ratings on 224 securities
and upgrade 17 bonds after “the correction of a system error
that had caused the loan group mapping for these transactions to
be incorrectly displayed in our surveillance systems.”  Similar Mistake  Mortgage-bond trustees occasionally make a similar mistake
when sending out payments to investors as S&P said today it did
in grading debt, meaning investors need to carefully monitor
their holdings, according to Raynes, a former Moody’s analyst
whose current firm advises bondholders.  “What that rating firm isn’t saying is they usually
incorrectly analyze every deal,” he said.  S&P President  Deven Sharma  said in June that the company’s
assessment of credit proved as accurate during the financial
crisis as during other periods of turmoil, with the exception of
its views on mortgage securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  