-- Justice Scalia Plans to Deliver Speech Before Bachmann's Tea Party Caucus
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-12-15T20:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/scalia-will-deliver-speech-before-bachmann-s-tea-party-caucus.html
Justice  Antonin Scalia  will speak to
U.S. lawmakers at a seminar sponsored by the Tea Party Caucus, a
group whose organizer, Representative  Michele Bachmann , has
urged the courts to strike down the new health-care law.  The speech will be open to all members of Congress, though
not to the public or press, said Doug Sachtleben, a spokesman
for Bachmann. Scalia, whose “original meaning” approach to the
Constitution has made him a star in conservative legal circles,
will focus on separation of powers, said  Kathy Arberg , the
 Supreme Court’s  spokeswoman.  The announcement that Scalia would deliver the speech
evoked mixed reactions from experts on judicial ethics. Although
jurists often speak to ideologically driven groups -- Scalia
regularly appears before both liberal and conservative
organizations -- one expert said his latest speech would create
appearance problems.  “It certainly adds to the politicization of issues
surrounding the judiciary,” said Richard Painter, a University
of Minnesota law professor who served as President  George W. Bush ’s chief ethics officer. “When a highly publicized case
comes along, it does not help the Supreme Court for the justices
to appear aligned one with one party or the other.”  Other ethics scholars said Scalia’s appearance isn’t
problematic so long as he doesn’t deliver a partisan speech.  “Justices are allowed to give speeches on the law and
legal reform,” said  Ronald Rotunda , a legal-ethics professor at
Chapman University School of Law in Orange, California.  Steven Lubet , of Northwestern University School of Law in
Chicago, also said he didn’t “see any issues” in Scalia’s
decision to appear before the group.  2007 Speech  Bachmann, a Minnesota Republican, formed the Tea Party
Caucus in July. She said at the time, “Congress should act
within the constitutional limitations as given to us by the
founding fathers.” The group now has 52 members, all
Republicans, and could swell to more than 80 when newly elected
representatives take office in January.  The Jan. 24 speech won’t be the first time Scalia has met
with a congressional group. In 2007 he spoke at an event
sponsored by the Constitution Caucus, a group founded by
Representative  Scott Garrett , a Republican from New Jersey.  Earlier this year,  Sonia Sotomayor  met with the
Congressional Caucus on the Judicial Branch, a bipartisan group
that aims to strengthen ties between Congress and the judiciary
and has hosted nine justices.  Scalia’s speech will be the first in a series of seminars
that the Tea Party Caucus plans to hold twice a month to refresh
members on “basic principles,” Sachtleben said.  Lobbying Scalia?  The closed-door nature of the event raises the possibility
that lawmakers will improperly attempt to lobby Scalia about
issues that are before the Supreme Court, Painter said.  “Steps should be taken to make sure that this event is not
a venue for ex-parte communications by members of Congress with
a member of the court,” said Painter, who during his stint in
the Bush administration worked on the Supreme Court nominations
of  John Roberts  and  Samuel Alito .  Last month, Bachmann joined 62 other lawmakers in signing a
court brief seeking to overturn President  Barack Obama ’s health
care overhaul. A federal judge this week declared part of the
law unconstitutional, and advocates on both sides they expect
the Supreme Court will ultimately decide the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 