-- Schutt Sports Approved by Bankruptcy Court to Sell Assets for $33 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2010-12-16T01:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/schutt-sports-wins-court-approval-to-sell-assets-for-33-million.html
Schutt Sports Inc., the Litchfield,
Illinois-based sports-equipment maker, won court approval to
sell virtually all its assets to a unit of Platinum Equity LLC,
Kranos Intermediate Holding Corp., for about $33.1 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin J. Carey  said that he would
approve the sale once final language has been drafted, after
ruling that the auction process was fair.  “The process was not so flawed that the court should upset
it,” Carey said at a hearing today in Wilmington, Delaware.
“The bidding was abruptly stopped, but I don’t think in a way
that prejudiced or wronged” any potential buyer.  Rawlings Sporting Goods Co. objected to the auction
process, saying in court papers it was unfairly prevented from
submitting additional bids for Schutt’s assets.  Schutt held an auction yesterday lasting about 20 hours and
concluded that Kranos made the “highest and best offer”
because of the “certainty of closing and speed of closing” and
it agreed to keep about 400 employees, Schutt lawyer  Nancy A. Peterman  told Carey. Kranos agreed to close on the acquisition
immediately after it’s approved and will retain Schutt employees
in Illinois for at least 12 months, and workers in Pennsylvania
for at least three months.  ‘Fresh Start’  “We’re excited, it gives us a fresh start and a lot of
momentum coming out of bankruptcy, and it assures our customers,
employees, and vendors,”  Robert Erb , chief executive officer of
Schutt Sports, said in an interview after the hearing. “The
future looks bright, we have high expectations of ourselves, and
with a partner like Platinum we think we can exceed them.”  The company is a “big believer in relentless innovation”
and is coming out with new products every year, Erb said to
questions about heightened attention on concussions in football.  “We are extremely excited about the company, excited about
being in the sports industry, and look forward to working with
management to grow Schutt,”  Jacob Kotzubei , partner at Platinum
Equity, said in an interview after the hearing. Platinum, the
Beverly Hills, California-based private-equity firm run by
billionaire  Tom Gores , has completed almost 100 acquisitions
since the company was created in 1995, according to its  website .  Closely held Schutt, the world’s largest provider of
football helmets and faceguards, sought bankruptcy protection
Sept. 6 to block rival Riddell Inc. from collecting on a $29
million patent lawsuit verdict. In court filings, Schutt listed
both assets and debt of $50 million to $100 million.  A federal court jury in Madison, Wisconsin, in August found
that Schutt’s DNA and ION football helmets infringed Riddell
inventions and awarded Riddell about $29 million in damages,
court papers show. Schutt also sued Riddell, asking the
bankruptcy court to bar collection, and to block the trial
court’s order not to sell helmets involved in the case.  The bankruptcy case is In re Schutt Sports Inc., 10-12795,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 