-- Senate Passes $858 Billion Tax-Cut Compromise Measure, Sends It to House
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2010-12-16T00:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/senate-passes-858-billion-tax-cut-plan-sends-it-to-house.html
The U.S. Senate passed an $858
billion tax-cut plan, giving bipartisan endorsement to an
agreement crafted by President  Barack Obama  and Republicans that
extends Bush-era reductions for all income levels.  The 81-19 vote sends the bill to the House, where it will
come to the floor tomorrow. The House will vote first on an
alternative with a higher estate-tax rate favored by many
Democrats. If that measure fails, the House would vote on
whether to forward the Senate bill to Obama for his signature.  Passage of the alternative estate-tax plan would return the
tax issue to the Senate, where Republicans say they will refuse
to make any changes.  Many Senate Democrats voted for the package, though they
had advanced a version that would prevent tax-cut extensions for
high-income taxpayers. Republicans on Dec. 4 blocked that
version from moving forward to a vote.  Three amendments were rejected today in separate votes
before the Senate moved to final passage of the bill.  “Whether you agree with all the contents of the bill or
not, everyone should understand that this is one of the major
accomplishments of any Congress, where two parties,
ideologically divided, have agreed on a major issue for the
American people,” said Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of
Nevada.  Other Democrats opposed the bill, objecting to the
inclusion of tax cuts for high-income individuals and the lowest
estate tax in 80 years, apart from this year when the levy was
temporarily erased.  Democrats Voting No  Democrats who voted against the measure included Senators
 Mark Udall  of Colorado,  Carl Levin  of Michigan,  Patrick Leahy  of
Vermont,  Kirsten Gillibrand  of New York and  Russell Feingold  of
Wisconsin. Republicans voting against the measure included
Senators  Jim DeMint  of South Carolina and  John Ensign  of Nevada.  The vote was little changed from the 83-15 vote on Dec. 13
to advance the measure. Three Democrats who voted yes that day -
-  Tom Harkin  of Iowa,  Byron Dorgan  of North Dakota and  Tom Udall 
of New Mexico -- voted against passing the bill today. Oregon
Democrats  Ron Wyden  and  Jeff Merkley , who were absent two days
ago, voted against passage.  The only senator who voted against the measure Dec. 13 and
for it today was Ohio’s  Sherrod Brown , a Democrat who said he
thought the bill could be improved though he also wanted to
deliver extended unemployment benefits to his state.  ‘As Swiftly as Possible’  Obama today urged lawmakers to “pass these tax cuts as
swiftly as possible.” He said at the White House that the bill,
“while not perfect, will help grow our economy and create jobs
in the private sector,” adding that lawmakers “can’t afford to
let it fall victim to either delay or defeat.”  The bill extends through 2012 all of the tax cuts on
income, capital gains and dividends that were enacted in 2001
and 2003 and are scheduled to expire at the end of the month. It
also extends expanded unemployment insurance benefits through
2011, cuts payroll taxes by 2 percentage points during 2011 and
lets businesses write off 100 percent of capital investments
between Sept. 9, 2010, and Dec. 31, 2011.  The legislation extends dozens of expired and expiring tax
breaks, including the research and development tax credit and a
college tuition tax credit that was created in last year’s
stimulus law. It sets a $5 million per-person exemption from the
estate tax and a 35 percent top rate through 2012, down from the
$1 million exemption and 55 percent top rate that would take
effect if no law passes this year.  Estate Tax  House Democrats expressed particular frustration with the
estate tax provision, saying it provided a giveaway to the
nation’s wealthiest families. According to the Tax Policy
Center, the bill would exempt an estimated 2,860 estates in 2011
from any tax. Democrats favor a 45 percent rate on estates worth
more than $3.5 million, an estimated 3,600 estates in 2011.  Many House Democrats have announced their support for the
bill, and some who oppose the agreement say they are likely to
lose. Leaders are discussing allowing an estate tax vote that
could be defeated by a coalition of Republicans and Democrats
who want to support the compromise bill.  “It’s a fast-moving train and there’s a business-as-usual
quality here,” Representative  Peter Welch , a Vermont Democrat,
said on Bloomberg Television today.  Republicans warned that any significant changes made by the
House would be rejected in the Senate and would risk scuttling
the entire agreement.  ‘Partisan Changes’  “If the House Democratic leadership decides to make
partisan changes, they will ensure that every American taxpayer
will see a job-killing tax hike on Jan. 1,” Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said in a
statement.  If the tax cuts expire, payroll withholding would increase
in January, taking more money out of workers’ paychecks and
causing administrative challenges for the Internal Revenue
Service. The 112th Congress would take up the tax issue, and the
outcome would be controlled by a Republican-led House and a
Senate with 47 Republicans, up from the 42 now.  Senate Democrats, who voted in large numbers to cut off
debate on Dec. 13, said they agreed to move forward though the
bill extended tax cuts for high-income taxpayers.  “The fact is this bill will be a help to the middle
class,” said California Democrat  Barbara Boxer .  Senate Republicans, who prefer a permanent extension of all
existing tax rates, said they were willing to negotiate with
Obama even if they didn’t get everything they wanted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Rubin  in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  