-- Reid Says Senate Vote on Russia Nuclear Weapons Treaty Expected Next Week
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-12-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/senate-votes-to-begin-debate-on-nuclear-arms-reduction-treaty-with-russia.html
U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said the Senate will vote next week on approving
ratification of a nuclear arms reduction treaty with Russia.  “A number of Republican senators” told him that “they
needed six or seven days to debate and offer amendments” on the
new  Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty , the Nevada Democrat said on
the Senate floor yesterday as the chamber ended its first day of
debate on the agreement.  “If the math works out the way I think it will,” he said,
debate may end “early Monday morning” and the Senate would
vote “next week.” The Senate is expected to be in session
tomorrow and possibly on Dec. 19.  The Senate’s 66-32 vote Dec. 15 to start consideration of
the treaty highlights how narrow a majority President  Barack Obama  and his Democratic Party may have for a treaty that
requires two-thirds of the senators present and voting -- 67, if
all 100 are in the chamber -- for approval.  Some Republicans have sought to delay consideration of the
treaty until next year, and are considering offering amendments
that would slow debate during the post-election session.
Republicans filed only one amendment yesterday, Reid said.  “There’s a great deal of discussion that needs to be made
as a predicate” before amendments would be offered, said
Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , the Senate’s second-ranking Republican,
who is leading his party’s critics of the treaty.  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry  told
reporters at the Capitol yesterday that there may be as many as
20 Republican-backed amendments “floating around” for possible
consideration. Democrats won’t support amending the treaty
because it would require a renegotiation with the Russians, the
Massachusetts Democrat said.  Long Wait  “We’re prepared to stay as long as necessary,” Kerry
said. “We are prepared to get this treaty done.”  The treaty, known as New START, is part of Obama’s attempt
to reset U.S. relations with Russia, and ratification would be a
victory on one of his top foreign policy priorities. The
administration and Senate leaders have said they have enough
support to get the two-thirds majority needed to approve
ratification.  Critics say the treaty limits U.S. options for developing
missile defenses, a project Russia has opposed. They also argue
that the new accord’s verification standards aren’t strong
enough and that Obama hasn’t made enough assurances that the
existing U.S. arsenal will be adequately maintained.  ‘Some Misunderstandings’  “I think there were some legitimate concerns, but frankly,
I think they’ve been addressed,” Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
said yesterday at a joint news conference with Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  at the White House. “I think there were
some misunderstandings, frankly, on missile defense.”  Treaty opponents are up against current and former U.S.
military commanders and Cabinet secretaries, including  Henry Kissinger  and  Colin Powell , who have urged that the Senate
support ratification.  “All the Joint Chiefs are very much behind this treaty,”
Marine Corps General  James Cartwright , vice chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, told reporters in Washington yesterday.  Indiana Senator  Richard Lugar , the top Republican on the
Foreign Relations Committee and a treaty supporter, said the
Senate has had months, including a dozen open and classified
hearings, to consider the agreement.  Arms Competition  “Failure of the United States Senate to approve the treaty
would result in an expansion of arms competition with Russia,”
Lugar said on the Senate floor Dec. 15.  “With all that we need to achieve, why would we add to our
problems by separating ourselves from Russia over a treaty that
our own military wants ratified?” he asked.  Democrats control 58 votes in the 100-seat Senate until
next month, when Republicans will have five more seats as a
result of November’s midterm elections.  Russian lawmakers are awaiting U.S. Senate action before
proceeding to their own ratification vote. Obama and Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  signed the accord in April.  The treaty limits each side’s strategic warheads to no more
than 1,550, from 2,200 allowed previously, and sets a maximum of
800 land-, air- and sea-based launchers. Each of the last three
arms-reduction treaties was ratified with more than 90 votes.
The previous treaty expired in December 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net . 