-- Siemens Said to Weigh Osram Options as Future Brightens for Lighting Unit
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2010-12-15T09:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/siemens-said-to-consider-osram-ipo-explore-alternatives-for-lighting-unit.html
Siemens AG , Europe’s largest
engineering company, is exploring options for its Osram lighting
business, including a possible initial public offering or sale,
according to three people with knowledge of the discussions.  Siemens, based in Munich, has held preliminary talks with
investment banks about the viability of a transaction involving
Osram, said the people, who declined to be identified because
talks are private. No decision has been made and Siemens may
keep the unit, they said. Siemens may consider an IPO or sales
process for the first half of next year, said one of the people.  Siemens is examining Osram’s future as the IPO market shows
signs of thawing and the unit’s earnings surge, rising six-fold
in the past fiscal year. Osram, the second-largest lighting
company in the world by sales after  Royal Philips Electronics
NV , has an enterprise value of 6.5 billion euros ($8.7 billion)
to 7 billion euros, according to an estimate by Morgan Stanley
analyst  Ben Uglow  in London.  “Over the next two to five years, Osram will require a
significant level of investment to make it best in class,” said
Uglow, who rates Siemens “overweight.” “The debate at Siemens
is whether Osram is strategic enough to invest that cash, or if
it should deploy the means somewhere else.”  Siemens spokesman  Marc Langendorf  declined to comment.
 Siegfried Russwurm , head of Siemens’s industry division, said
last month in an interview that while Osram is “close to my
heart,” Siemens routinely reviews its assets and “nothing is
sacred.”  Improved Results  Osram ’s results improved more year-over-year than at any
other divisions in the industry business as higher demand
coincided with a better cost structure. Siemens cut about 5,000
jobs at Osram in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, 2009. The unit
has almost 40,000 employees globally.  Osram’s fiscal full-year earnings jumped more than six-fold
to 569 million euros on higher sales of 4.68 billion euros,
helped by demand for light-emitting diodes and automotive
products. The unit’s margin of 12.2 percent in that period
exceeded for the first time in at least five years its target of
a 10 percent to 12 percent margin.  A deal involving Osram would be Siemens’s biggest
structural change since the company sold its VDO automotive unit
to Continental AG for 11.4 billion euros in 2007. A sale would
also bring Siemens close to a total withdrawal from consumer-
oriented products, after giving up mobile phones and moving its
home-appliance unit into a joint venture.  The engineering company yesterday said that it will divest
its computer-services unit SIS to Atos Origin SA in an 850
million-euro transaction, nine months after first announcing to
create a separate entity from the business and considering a
sale. The unit had 35,000 employees in March, and the division
has been unprofitable for years.  Siemens’s other consumer product is hearing aids, which the
company considered selling before shelving the plan earlier this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  