-- Simon Property Bid for Capital Shopping Values Mall Owner at $4.6 Billion
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-12-15T12:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/simon-bids-for-capital-shopping-offer-values-mall-owner-at-4-6-billion.html
Simon Property Group Inc. , the
largest U.S. mall owner, made an offer for  Capital Shopping
Centres Group Plc  that values the U.K. company at 2.9 billion
pounds ($4.6 billion).  Simon would pay 425 pence a share in cash for London-based
Capital Shopping, the U.K.’s biggest retail landlord, according
to a statement today. That’s 26 percent more than Capital
Shopping’s closing share price on Nov. 24, the day before
Simon’s interest was disclosed. Capital Shopping has so far
refused to cooperate with the Indianapolis-based company.  Capital Shopping owns four of the U.K.’s 10 biggest malls,
including the Manchester Arndale and the Lakeside Shopping
Centre in Essex. Simon said its bid is conditional on Capital
Shopping not completing the acquisition of Trafford Centre also
in Manchester. The British company agreed last month to pay 1.6
billion pounds in shares and assumed debt for the mall in what
would be the U.K.’s biggest property transaction.  “This is still a ‘phony war’ and inadequate,”  Mike Prew ,
a London-based analyst at Nomura International, said in a note
to investors today. “It is not a knockout blow.”  Simon’s proposed offer is 13 percent higher than Capital
Shopping’s net asset value of 377 pence a share as of Nov. 1.
 Land Securities Group Plc , the U.K.’s largest real estate
investment trust, closed yesterday at 9.4 percent below its net
asset value as of Sept. 30 and  British Land Co. , the second-
largest REIT, was 2.6 percent lower.  Shares Climb  Capital Shopping gained as much as 3.9 percent to 411.9
pence in London trading. The shares were priced at 407 pence at
12:05 p.m., bringing this year’s gain to 2.4 percent. Simon said
Dec. 8 that it owned 5.1 percent of the stock.  Capital Shopping is considering Simon’s latest proposal at
a board meeting today, according to a separate statement. The
U.K. company disclosed Simon’s interest last month while
announcing the agreement to buy the Trafford Centre from closely
held  Peel Group .  To help with financing, Capital Shopping raised about 221
million pounds from selling the equivalent of 9.9 percent of its
outstanding equity to investors. The deal would give Peel as
much as 25 percent of Capital Shopping. Shareholders are
scheduled to vote on the proposal on Dec. 20.  In the same statement,  Capital Shopping  said it rejected
Simon’s request to delay the purchase and share sale to give the
U.S. landlord time to prepare an offer. Capital Shopping refused
last week to provide Simon with information it said it needed to
evaluate a possible takeover bid.  ‘Attractive to Shareholders’  “Our proposed offer is highly favorable and attractive to
CSC shareholders,” Simon said. “We are enthusiastic about this
opportunity and committed to dedicating substantial time and
financial resources with a view to concluding a transaction as
soon as possible.”  Investment in U.K. retail properties is at a four-year
high, with spending this year set to top 5 billion pounds,
including the Trafford deal. Investors are attracted by better
income returns than they can get from cash or government bonds,
according to property brokers including Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  The proportion of real estate investment across Europe
allocated to buying malls and shopping centers is at its highest
for more than a decade, Cushman said in a report last month.  Capital Shopping is considering Simon’s latest proposal at
a board meeting today, it said in a statement.  No ‘Buy’ Ratings  Capital Shopping  is the only company in the benchmark FTSE
100 Index without a single “buy” recommendation from any of
the analysts covering it. The average 12-month price estimate
for the stock is 364.2 pence, 8.1 percent lower than yesterday’s
closing price. That’s based on 14 estimates.  Of the 19 analysts covering the stock, 10 rate it “hold”
or “neutral,” while seven have a “sell,” “reduce,” or
“underweight” rating. Two others are “restricted” because of
their involvement in the Peel transaction.  The company hasn’t had a “buy” rating since it spun off
Capital & Counties Properties Plc in May. None of the analysts
covering the company had a “buy” recommendation at the time of
the demerger.  David Fischel ,  Capital Shopping ’s 52-year-old chief
executive officer, has run the company since 1992, making him
the second-longest-serving CEO in Britain’s 100 largest
companies after WPP Plc’s  Martin Sorrell .  Simon Property ’s chairman and chief executive officer is
 David Simon , the 49-year-old son of the founder, Melvin. Simon
has run the company since 1998.  The mall owner  was valued at
$28.6 billion at the close in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading yesterday.  European Retreat  Simon cut its European holdings this year with the sale of
its interest in a joint venture that owned seven shopping
centers in France and Poland. It recorded a gain on the sale of
$281 million, according to a regulatory filing.  Simon gets 3.5 percent of its net operating income from
international operations, according to a third-quarter
supplemental report. The company also owns outlet shopping
centers in Japan, Mexico and South Korea.  Earlier this year, Simon unsuccessfully bid $6.5 billion
for U.S. rival General Growth Properties Inc., which emerged on
Nov. 9 from the largest-ever U.S. real estate bankruptcy.  Simon’s announcement today doesn’t constitute a firm offer
for Capital Shopping and there can be no certainty that any bid
will ultimately be made, the company said. Any offer is also
conditional on due diligence and Simon arranging debt finance.  Simon appointed Citigroup Inc., Lazard Ltd. and Evercore
Partners Inc. as financial advisers and Freshfields and Wachtell
Lipton as its legal advisers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 