-- Small-Business Lending Is Pledged by U.S. as Obama Meets Chief Executives
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-12-15T16:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/small-business-lending-is-pledged-by-u-s-as-obama-meets-chief-executives.html
President Barack Obama’s
administration pledged new government-backed lending to small
businesses, as an economic recovery that is helping
multinational corporations eludes Main Street companies.  The U.S. Small Business Administration introduced two
programs of expedited lending guarantees for banks or community
lenders giving loans of as much as $250,000 to small businesses,
SBA Administrator Karen Mills said today.  While chief executive officers of thriving companies such
as Honeywell International Inc. and  General Electric Co.  met
with Obama at the White House today, Mills said smaller
companies are still struggling amid a lack of demand and credit.  “This recovery has not been robust for small businesses,”
Mills said in an interview at Bloomberg’s offices in Washington.
“I hear that business is coming back -- slowly.”  The lending programs, which are aimed at “underserved
communities” such as poor neighborhoods, are the latest in a
series of efforts by the Obama administration to get more
capital to companies with fewer than 500 employees. Optimism
among those companies, which government economists say are
responsible for the majority of job growth, is still at
recessionary levels, the National Federation of Independent
Business said in a report this month.  Corporate profits in the third quarter exceeded the 2006
high before the recession, and optimism among the 193 CEOs in
the Business Roundtable is at the highest level since 2006, as
they project increased sales, investment and hiring, according
to a survey the Washington-based association released yesterday.  Suspended Fees  The Obama administration and Congress authorized increased
government guarantees and the suspension of fees for SBA loans
in the stimulus bill last year, and that program was extended in
a small-business lending bill approved by Congress this year. A
$30 billion lending facility that was also included in that
measure, which will channel funds to community banks, is set to
begin operating soon, Mills said.  One of the initiatives announced today will provide an SBA
guarantee of 75 percent to 85 percent for loans of as much as
$250,000, with guaranteed approval within one business day. A
separate program will provide those same terms to micro-lending
intermediaries, faith-based lenders and community development
organizations. Both programs will be operating before March 15,
according to the SBA.  “There are gaps in the marketplace that are not being
met,” Mills said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  