-- Southwest's Kelly Pushes for Boeing Decision on New 737 Engines
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2010-12-15T21:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/southwest-airlines-ceo-kelly-pushes-for-boeing-decision-on-new-737-engines.html
Southwest Airlines Co.  increased
pressure on  Boeing Co.  to upgrade its top-selling 737 model with
more fuel-efficient engines, as Airbus SAS did with a competing
plane, because waiting a decade for an all-new jet is too long.  “When you talk about something that’s 10 years from now,
that’s not a solution, that’s an idea,” Southwest Chief
Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  said in an interview in New York.
“Who among us is to say it won’t be 15 years from now? In the
meantime, we’re going to spend $40 billion on fuel.”  Southwest is the biggest operator of the single-aisle 737,
a competitor of the Airbus A320, which Boeing has said may not
be replaced with an all-new model before 2020. While Airbus said
Dec. 1 that it would offer new engines on its narrow-body plane,
Boeing has delayed a decision on the 737 until 2011 after
initially planning an announcement this year.  Southwest’s fleet  of 544 aircraft, which Kelly plans to
maintain by retiring older planes as new ones are added,
consists solely of 737s. The CEO said that he’s willing to wait
“to a point” for Boeing to decide on offering a new engine
before he looks at alternatives.  “I don’t feel any issue today, that we have to have an
answer today,” he said. “In the meantime if there are real
things that are alternatives, one is forced to look at that. We
are very supportive of their efforts. There is no implied
criticism here. At all.”  Capacity Increase  Fuel accounted for 33 percent of Southwest’s total
operating expenses in the first nine months of 2010, and a plane
with about 15 percent higher fuel efficiency would help cut
costs.  The Dallas-based carrier will increase capacity 3 percent
to 5 percent in 2011, excluding the fleet from its acquisition
of AirTran Holdings Inc., Kelly said in a speech today in New
York. Southwest said it has completed plans to convert 20
existing aircraft orders to Boeing 737-800s from -700s, with
initial deliveries expected in 2012.  The more fuel-efficient and larger -800 will enable
Southwest to carry more people on high-demand routes and allow
flights to destinations such as Hawaii, Central America and the
Caribbean.  Chief Operating Officer  Mike Van de Ven  said in October
that Southwest was “indifferent” on whether Chicago-based
Boeing chose to offer an all-new successor to the 737 or a
modified version with new engines. That was before Airbus
unveiled its plan for the upgraded A320, which it called the
A320 NEO.  ‘Material Event’  “The Airbus NEO announcement is a material event and that
has to be factored in,” Kelly said. “We may need to understand
-- may being a key word -- in depth what that’s all about.”  Boeing has said it would prefer to focus on a new jet
because customers don’t see a business case for the interim-
engine step.  “We’ll do our studies, work with customers, see what their
requirements are, and at such time that we’re satisfied we’re
doing right by our customers and by the market, then we’ll make
that decision,”  Tom Brabant , a Boeing spokesman in Seattle,
said today.  “If we decide that re-engining is the way to go, that
would be in service around the middle of the decade,” Brabant
said. “We’ve heard both ways from customers, that some are in
favor of a new engine and some in favor of a new airplane.”  ‘Something Gary Kelly Likes’  Whatever decision Boeing makes, it will be “something that
Gary Kelly likes,”  Jim Albaugh , chief of Boeing’s commercial
airplanes division, said in July.  The new power plants Airbus is offering are made by United
Technologies Corp.’s  Pratt & Whitney  and CFM International, a
joint venture between  General Electric Co.  and France’s Safran
SA.  Bombardier Inc.’s new CSeries, which seeks to compete with
the smallest of the A320 models, also offers the new Pratt &
Whitney engine, the PurePower geared turbofan. The 737 now
operates on only CFM engines.  While new engines promise to cut fuel consumption by about
15 percent, the savings on direct costs to airlines would
translate into just half that amount as fuel is only part of the
cost in operating planes. Another compromise is a likely cut to
payload or range, because the new engines are heavier.  Landing Gear  Fitting different engines under a 737’s wing would be more
challenging for Boeing because the aircraft already sits so
close to the ground that the landing gear would need to be
redesigned to allow enough clearance.  The planemaker began testing tweaks to its existing 737
last month that would make the plane 2 percent more fuel-
efficient by the middle of next year.  “We want something better than we’ve got,” Kelly said.
“Pratt & Whitney has an engine that’s more fuel efficient. GE
has an engine that’s not far behind. What’s the plan? You’ve got
an answer from Airbus, you’ve got an answer from Bombardier. And
we need a means to reduce our fuel bill and our carbon
emissions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  