-- South Africa Says Size Doesn't Matter in Joining BRIC
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-12-21T07:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/south-africa-says-importance-not-size-makes-it-candidate-for-bric-group.html
(Corrects the relative size of India’s economy to the other
BRIC countries in fourth paragraph. The story originally ran on
Dec. 15.)  South Africa should be a candidate
to join the BRIC group of emerging economies along with Brazil,
Russia, India and China because of its importance in Africa
rather than its size, Trade Minister  Rob Davies  said.  South Africa, which has Africa’s biggest economy, has asked
to join the group, Davies said in an interview in Johannesburg
yesterday, declining to say if the proposal was accepted.  “Those countries are the dynamic forces of the world
economy,” Davies said. “To be in a relationship with those
countries, whether formal or not, is very important to South
Africa.”  Since coming to power in May last year, President  Jacob Zuma  has made state visits to the BRIC nations to lobby for
stronger political and trade ties. South Africa’s  economy , at
$286 billion, and its population of 49 million are dwarfed by
those of the other group members. India, the second-smallest of
the BRIC economies with a gross domestic product of $1.3
trillion, according to World Bank data, has a population of 1.2
billion.  “I don’t think they set criteria such as size of
population,” Davies said. “These are systemically important
countries. We are a systemically important country in an
important continent.”  Positive Reaction  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  said on Nov. 12 that the
BRIC group had reacted positively to South Africa’s request to
join. BRIC leaders are due to meet in Beijing next year for
their third summit.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist  Jim O’Neill  coined the
BRIC term in 2001 to describe the four nations that he estimates
will collectively equal the U.S. in economic size by 2020.
O’Neill said at a conference in November that South Africa was
too small to be included in the BRIC group, Reuters reported on
Dec. 13.  At their first summit in Russia in June last year, the BRIC
heads of state called for emerging economies to have a greater
voice in international financial institutions and for a more
diversified global monetary system.  South Africa is already a member of the trilateral group,
India-Brazil-South Africa, known by its acronym  IBSA , which was
created in 2003 to coordinate action between the three emerging
economies in global forums.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 