-- Soybeans Climb to One-Month High on Argentina Dry Spell; Corn Prices Drop
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-12-15T20:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/soybeans-climb-to-one-month-high-amid-dry-weather-in-argentina.html
Soybeans rose to a one-month high on
speculation that dry weather will reduce yields in Argentina,
the world’s biggest exporter of animal feed and cooking oils
made from the commodity. Corn fell, erasing earlier gains.  Rains this weekend will miss the major growing region in
Argentina, Chicago-based  T-Storm Weather LLC  said in a report.
Hot, dry weather will return next week in areas where rainfall
has been 6 inches (15 centimeters) below normal the past month,
increasing stress on crops, the private forecaster said.  “Uncertainty about production prospects in Argentina is
boosting soybeans,” said  Jim Gerlach , the president of A/C
Trading Inc. in Fowler Indiana. “Growing areas have been too
dry recently, and the below-normal rainfall pattern is likely to
continue.”  Soybean futures for March delivery rose 1.75 cents, or 0.1
percent, to settle at $13.0775 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Earlier, the most-active futures touched
$13.2475, the highest since Nov. 12.  Corn futures for March delivery dropped 3 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $5.8425 a bushel on the CBOT. Earlier, the price
touched $5.945, the highest since Nov. 9, on speculation that
demand for imported grain will rise in China. The most-active
contract has surged 56 percent since the end of June as adverse
weather reduced U.S. production.  Corn was “challenged by outside markets that are very much
commodity negative, with the dollar sharply higher,” said  Don Roose , the president of U.S. Commodities Inc. in West Des
Moines, Iowa. A higher dollar erodes the appeal of exports from
the U.S., the world’s largest producer of the grain.  Dollar Rally  The  dollar  jumped the most in three weeks against a basket
of six currencies as a possible downgrade of Spain’s credit
rating rekindled concern that the European debt crisis will
worsen. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index fell as much as
0.8 percent.  The U.S. Senate passed an $858 billion tax-cut plan today
that included the extension of a 45-cent-a-gallon tax credit for
ethanol production. Traders may have already considered the
extension “a done deal,” as corn futures climbed 2.5 percent
on Dec. 13, said  Paul Beere , a market adviser at Prime
Agricultural Consultants Inc. in Brookfield, Wisconsin.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion last
year, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net 
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 