-- Spain's Debt Rating May Be Cut by Moody's Amid Struggle to Limit Contagion
-- B y   P a u l   T o b i n
-- 2010-12-15T07:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/spain-s-aa1-credit-rating-put-on-review-for-possible-downgrade-by-moody-s.html
Spain’s credit rating may be cut
from Aa1 by Moody’s Investors Service on concern about rising
borrowing costs, potential losses in the banking system and
deficits in the country’s regions.  “Spain’s substantial funding requirements, not only for
the sovereign but also for the regional governments and the
banks, make the country susceptible to further episodes of
 funding stress ,” Kathrin Muehlbronner, an analyst at Moody’s,
said in a report today. At the same time, Spain’s rating will
probably remain in the “Aa” range and the “base case”
assumption is that the country won’t need a bailout.  European governments are struggling to stop contagion
spreading from Greece and Ireland to the rest of the euro
region. The extra yield that investors demand to hold Spanish
10-year bonds over German bunds touched a euro-era closing high
of 283 basis points on Nov. 30 amid speculation Spain will also
need a European Union-led rescue.  The announcement comes at a day before Spain’s last
scheduled bond sale of the year.  The euro dropped 0.5 percent to $1.3315. The risk premium
on Spanish bonds over German equivalents was at 249 basis points
yesterday. Moody’s said that Spain’s position is “much
stronger” than “other stressed euro zone countries.”  The ratings company lowered Spain to Aa1 from Aaa in
September. Spain lost its top grade at Fitch Ratings in May and
at Standard & Poor’s in January 2009. S&P currently rates Spain
AA while Fitch has a AA+ grade.  Another Negative  A one step cut to Aa2 by Moody’s would leave Spain in line
with Italy’s Aa2 rating and two above Portugal.  “The news is another negative for Spain, and only makes
tomorrow’s Spanish bond auctions even more tricky,” said  Niels From , chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “Spain is
already struggling to convince market participants that the
country can put its own house in order by itself.”  Moody’s said it expected lenders to need a total of 25
billion euros ($33 billion) in recapitalizations, of which 10.5
billion has already been provided by the state bailout fund. In
a more stressed scenario that could rise to between 80 billion
and 90 billion euros, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  