-- Spain's Debt Rating May Be Cut by Moody's Amid Struggle to Limit Contagion
-- B y   P a u l   T o b i n   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-12-15T12:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/spain-s-aa1-debt-rating-put-on-review-by-moody-s.html
Spain’s credit rating may be cut
from Aa1, Moody’s Investors Service said, as the government
prepares its final bond sale of the year tomorrow amid concern
it may follow Greece and Ireland in seeking a bailout.  Spain has to raise 170 billion euros ($226 billion) next
year, while refinancing needs for its regions total 30 billion
euros and for banks around 90 billion euros, Moody’s estimates.  “Spain’s substantial funding requirements, not only for
the sovereign but also for the regional governments and the
banks, make the country susceptible to further episodes of
funding stress,”  Kathrin Muehlbronner , an analyst at Moody’s,
said in a report today.  Spain lost its top rating at Moody’s in September as euro-
region leaders struggled to contain the debt crisis. Spain is
raising taxes, slashing wages and privatizing state industries
to persuade investors it can avoid a rescue. Ireland last month
became the second euro nation to get a bailout.  The rating will probably remain in the “Aa” range,
Moody’s said. The company doesn’t see a bailout as “likely,”
even though it “can’t rule it out,” Muehlbronner said.  The  euro  fell and the extra yield that investors demand to
hold Spanish 10-year bonds over German bunds widened to as much
as 257 basis points after the Moody’s report, less than 30 basis
points shy of a euro-era closing record. The spread eased to 250
basis points at 12:30 p.m. in London.  Bond Auction  The move may further increase Spain’s financing costs at
tomorrow’s bond sale, when the Treasury plans to auction 3
billion euros of 10- and 15-year securities. Surging yields
already prompted the Treasury to reduce planned proceeds from
the usual target of around 4 billion euros, Finance Minister
 Elena Salgado  said Nov. 26. Portugal’s borrowing costs almost
doubled at a sale of three-month bills today compared with the
last auction in November.  “The news is another negative for Spain, and only makes
tomorrow’s Spanish bond auctions even more tricky,” said  Niels From , chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “Spain is
already struggling to convince market participants that the
country can put its own house in order by itself.”  Regional Borrowing  Spanish Deputy Finance Minister  Jose Manuel Campa  said he
doesn’t foresee any lack of demand for Spanish sovereign debt
next year nor does he expect private issuers to have problems
raising financing. Moody’s analysis of the regional governments’
finances isn’t “sufficiently careful,” he told reporters in
Madrid today, as those administrations are meeting their budget
targets and will continue to do so next year.  Spain, reeling from the collapse of a debt-fueled housing
boom, has the highest unemployment rate in Europe at more than
20 percent. The budget deficit, which at 11 percent of gross
domestic product last year was the third-biggest in the euro
region. Its borrowing costs have surged and the gap between its
10-year yields and those of Germany are 17 times the average in
the first decade of monetary union.  Also weighing on Spanish debt are plans to make private
investors contribute to the costs of future debt crises after
2013. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said today ahead of a
European summit that “strict conditions” will be tied to
future aid and any help will be “a last resort.”  Banks’ Needs  Moody’s said Spanish lenders may need 25 billion euros for
recapitalizations, of which 10.5 billion euros has already been
provided by the state’s FROB bank-rescue fund. In a more
stressed scenario, that could rise to as much as 90 billion
euros, the company said. The FROB was created with an initial 9
billion euros and has the capacity to take on as much as 90
billion euros of debt. Ireland will spend as much as 83 billion
euros, more than half its gross domestic product, rescuing its
lenders, according to the government.  “Given the nervousness of the markets, given the situation
after Ireland where the banks will have to be recapitalized to a
much higher capital level, to a core Tier 1 ratio of 12 percent,
we ran stress tests to see what that would mean in the context
of Spain,” Muehlbronner said in a telephone interview. If
Spanish lenders had to be similarly capitalized, to “retain
market confidence and absorb potentially higher loan losses,”
the figure would be 80 billion euros to 90 billion euros, she
said.  ‘Relatively Poor’  Moody’s said it’s confident the government is committed to
cutting the budget  deficit  and expects the shortfall to be close
to 6 percent of GDP in 2011, compared with 11 percent in 2009.
Still, Muehlbronner said the regional governments have a
“relatively poor” track record on budget cutting.  The ratings company lowered Spain to Aa1 from Aaa in
September. Spain lost its top grade at Fitch Ratings in May and
at Standard & Poor’s in January 2009. S&P currently rates Spain
AA while Fitch has a AA+ grade. Moody’s said that Spain’s
position is “much stronger” than “other stressed euro-zone
countries.” A one step cut to Aa2 by Moody’s would leave Spain
in line with Italy’s rating and two notches above Portugal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at   ptobin@bloomberg.net ;
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  