-- Portuguese Debt Slides After Auction of Bills; Spanish Bonds Snap Decline
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-15T16:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/spanish-bonds-drop-for-8th-day-as-credit-rating-put-on-review-by-moody-s.html
Portuguese government bonds declined
for an eighth consecutive day as costs rose at a sale of
Treasury bills and Moody’s Investors Service said it may
downgrade Spain’s credit rating.  Spanish bonds gained for the first time in eight days,
reversing a decline that pushed the 10-year  yield  up to within
six basis points of the highest since September 2000. Moody’s
said the Spanish government may struggle to fund itself next
year amid losses at banks. Spain plans to sell bonds tomorrow,
its last sale of the year. German bunds were little changed.  “There is no place for Portugal to hide on the curve,”
 David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG,
said by phone. “The level of stress is tremendous.”  The Portuguese 10-year yield climbed two basis points to
6.57 percent as of 4:32 p.m. in London. The 4.8 percent security
due June 2020 fell 0.12, or 1.2 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,334)
face amount, to 87.75. The German bund yield was little changed
at 3.03 percent after reaching 3.07 percent, the most since May.  The Portuguese securities due March 18 were issued today at
an average yield of 3.403 percent, the country’s debt management
agency said. That compares with an average yield of 1.818
percent at a previous sale of 3-month bills on Nov. 3. The
auction attracted bids for 1.9 times the amount offered, down
from the bid-to-cover ratio of 2.2 in November.  Spain on Review  Spanish 10-year yields fell seven basis points to 5.49
percent. They earlier jumped as high as 5.61 percent after the
Moody’s statement. Spain’s debt may increase because of “costs
to recapitalize the banking industry, while limited control over
regional finances erodes the capacity of the central government
to improve its finances,” Moody’s said today in a statement.  Moody’s still “continues to view Spain as a much stronger
credit than other stressed euro zone countries,” analyst
 Kathrin Muehlbronner  said in the report, and doesn’t see a
bailout of the country as likely. “Moody’s review will
therefore most likely conclude that Spain’s rating will remain
in the Aa range,” she wrote.  Spain lost its top AAA rating at Moody’s in September as
euro-region leaders struggled to contain the debt crisis. Spain
is raising taxes, slashing wages and privatizing industries to
persuade investors it can avoid a rescue.  Spanish bonds fell yesterday after the nation was forced to
pay more at a sale of 12-month and 18-month bills. Spain is due
to issue 3 billion euros of 4.85 percent 2020 and 4.65 percent
2025 debt tomorrow. It’s the only euro-region nation apart from
Italy planning to sell bonds for the rest of this year.  Belgium, Greece  Belgian bonds also declined yesterday after Standard &
Poor’s said “prolonged political uncertainty” could hurt its
credit rating. Belgian 10-year bonds were little changed today,
with the yield up one basis point to 4.04 percent.  Greek 10-year yields rose 25 basis points to 12.18 percent.
Greek unions grounded all flights to and from Athens, kept
ferries docked at ports and shut down public services today to
protest wage cuts as the government sticks to conditions of an
international bailout.  Irish 10-year yields declined seven basis points to
8.36 percent. Ireland last month became the second euro nation
to get a bailout after Greece requested aid in April.  EU leaders start a two-day summit at 5 p.m. in Brussels
tomorrow with the focus on the permanent crisis-fighting system
to be introduced in 2013.  Germany opposes expanding government-financed aid beyond
the 750 billion-euro emergency fund created in May, while ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said more money needs to be made
available to halt the debt crisis instead of relying on the
central bank’s bond-buying program.  “We’re calling for maximum flexibility and maximum
capacity, quantitatively and qualitatively,” Trichet told
reporters in Frankfurt in remarks released yesterday.  German bonds returned 5.5 percent this year, compared with
5.1 percent for U.S. Treasuries and 5.2 percent for U.K. gilts,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Spanish bonds lost 5.3 percent, while Irish debt handed
investors a loss of 11 percent and Portuguese bonds declined 7.2
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  