-- Spanish Lenders May Need $120 Billion, Moody’s Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-12-15T17:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/spanish-banks-may-need-to-raise-120-billion-more-in-capital-moody-s-says.html
Spanish banks that helped spur the
country’s property boom with mortgages and loans to developers
may need as much as 90 billion euros ($120 billion) in capital,
Moody’s Investors Service said.  That estimate is based on a scenario in which lenders would
need a Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of their financial
strength, of as much as 12 percent to tap funding, Moody’s said
in a statement. Spanish banks declined today, led by  Banco
Santander (SAN)  SA, the country’s biggest.  “Given the situation after Ireland where the banks will
have to be recapitalized to a much higher capital level, to a
core Tier 1 ratio of 12 percent, we ran stress tests to see what
that would mean in the context of Spain, if  Spanish banks  had to
be recapitalized to a higher level in order to retain market
confidence,” Kathrin Muehlbronner, an analyst at Moody’s, said
in a phone interview.  The calculations by Moody’s show the gap opening up between
analysts and Spanish officials over estimates for the size of
the lenders’ possible capital needs. Bank of Spain Governor
Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said two days ago he didn’t see
any need for lenders to tap more funds from a bank-rescue
facility in 2011 beyond the 11 billion euros already committed
and that investors’ perceptions of the industry’s health were
“much worse than reality itself.”  Under its “base case” scenario, Moody’s expects
“relatively moderate” recapitalization needs of 25 billion
euros, if the lenders are to retain a Tier 1 ratio of 8 percent,
according to the ratings firm. That figure and the larger
estimate both include the sum provided by the bank-rescue fund.  Credit Rating  Spain  has set up a fund, known by its acronym FROB, that
can take on as much as 90 billion euros in debt to speed up
mergers and help the banking system get new capital.  “Everyone has to play out their role and the day that the
governor of the Bank of Spain says that Spanish banks need 90
billion euros and FROB isn’t big enough, we’ll be lost,” Juan Jose Toribio, a professor at IESE business school and a former
head of financial policy in the country’s finance ministry, said
at a news conference today.  Moody’s also said Spain’s credit rating may be cut from Aa1
on concern about mounting borrowing costs, potential losses in
the banking system and the deficits of regional administrations.
The refinancing needs of Spanish lenders may come on top of the
170 billion euros the country’s treasury needs to raise, the
ratings firm said.  Santander dropped 2.6 percent to 8.15 euros in  Madrid ,
while  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , the country’s second-
biggest bank, fell 2 percent to 7.83 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas at   erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  