-- Startup iTVi Brings 'Triple Play' to China's Boob Tubes
-- B y   M e g a n   S h a n k
-- 2010-12-15T21:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/startup-itvi-brings-triple-play-to-china-s-boob-tubes.html
With a seemingly endless sea of paying subscribers -- 170
million for cable television programming, 130 for broadband access, and 800 million for
mobile phone services, China is the Holy Grail for broadcasters, Internet providers, and
telecoms that want to sell TV, Internet, and phone in one “triple play” package. But until
recently, Chinese regulators didn’t allow these companies to compete outside their own
industries because of technical difficulties, content concerns, and rivalries among
government agencies defending their turf. That changed last summer when the
government began piloting a triple-play-friendly policy in 14 cities, a policy it plans to
expand nationwide between 2013 and 2015, with the goal of encouraging high-tech
industry and providing consumers competitive services.  A recent report by Wu Hequan, the vice-president of the Chinese Academy of
Engineering, shows that within the next three years, triple-play-related investment and
consumer spending will generate $100 billion, create 200,000 jobs, and boost GDP
growth 0.8 percent. One of the entrepreneurs already taking advantage of the relaxed
rules is Pi Li, the 34-year-old founder and manager of IT startup iTVi, which makes and
sells software and hardware that enables users to use TV and Internet functions
simultaneously from their TV screens. Li compares iTVi with Google TV -- and, like
Google TV, has a partnership with Intel, which fashions the chips that run the iTVi
operating system and media center software.  Li’s company has established partnerships with China’s national television network,
CCTV, and the China Hualu Group, a state-owned electronics manufacturer in Dalian,
China. During its first two years, iTVi had $30,000 in annual revenue; now, with the
government pilot in play, it should bring in $600,000 in 2010 and $1.8 million in 2011,
says Li. He expects to double head count to 60 employees in 2011 and hire 30 more in
2012. Li, a native of Hebei province and former researcher for Bell Labs and product
manager at Alcatel-Lucent, drained his life savings of $450,000 to start his company. He
spoke recently with Bloomberg.com contributor Megan Shank about the alacrity of
elderly Chinese tech users and why Google TV isn’t a threat in China. Edited excerpts
of their conversation follow.  Megan Shank: Describe the user demographic you’re targeting.  Pi Li: Of course the youth are a big market. They’ve grown up accustomed to watching
television programs on the Internet. Many of them naturally came to the idea that it
would be great if you could connect the Internet to the larger television screen. But it’s a
troublesome task to connect the two. Still, from this, we can see that demand exists
among this group -- and among others, too, from kids to elderly people. My 70-year-old
mother asked me to bring her an IPTV set-top box [a device that delivers television from
the Internet instead of through traditional signals] so she can watch television series
without interruption. My 8-year-old niece turns on the computer only to watch television
programs -- she has no other use for the computer yet. Imagine if she could just watch
her Internet programs on the television. Everyone knows it’s more comfortable to watch
programs on television than the computer.  Q: How will your product compete if Google TV enters the Chinese market in 2011, as
it’s rumored to do?  A: Because of restrictions with the Chinese Internet, I don’t think it will happen. If it does,
we have a couple of advantages. First, we have great working relationships with
Chinese media giants, such as CNTV [China Network Television], the digital network
archive for CCTV, and telecom companies such as China Unicom, as well as cable
companies. Also, we localize our services. For example, the way Chinese people use
remote controls is actually quite different from the way Americans use them. Before we
entered the market, we studied functions and use patterns so we could provide
Chinese-tailored software and services -- just doing this research would require quite a
bit of time for anyone to catch up. Secondly, we’ve been encouraged and supported by
government at the municipal, provincial, and national level that recommend us to other
companies. We are growing with the new policies, and we were here from the outset. It
would be hard for Google TV to compete.  Q: Would you characterize Chinese media policies as protectionist?  A: There are bottlenecks for both foreign and Chinese companies. The Internet is
restricted, and television even more so. Internet TV and IPTV licenses are still quite
limited. In addition, in China, standard broadcast companies’ content should be healthy
and positive, as well as legally broadcast. This means there are special requirements
for the supervision and release of content.  Q: Otherwise known as censorship, correct?  A: The Chinese government worries about problems with content, and Chinese
companies understand these concerns, where foreign companies may not. But for both
foreign and Chinese companies trying to work across platforms, there are impediments.
For example, Tudou and Youku, the Chinese versions of YouTube, can broadcast on
the Net, but they still can’t stream on Chinese television. Likewise, you won’t find any
officially released PS3, Xbox, or Wii products in mainland China, because video game
consoles are illegal. Any such products you see for sale in China are smuggled goods.  Q: What support have you received from the government?  A: We received subsidies of more than US$1 million that we used for R&D from the
local government, but they are not stakeholders in the company. In Dalian, we’re
leading 20 companies in the triple-play effort. Dalian is a great place to do this work,
because it has really become a national standout for software development and
outsourcing, and of course, it’s among the first areas to test out triple play.  Q: Will you bundle your product, like AT&T and iPhone in the States or China Unicom
and iPhone in China?  A: Yes, China Unicom will help subsidize the product and promote iTVi software,
services, and hardware. We’ll also use standard distribution channels, but this will be a
small portion of what we do, because it doesn’t have as much impact if you go it alone.
For example, if you work with a company such as China Unicom, China Telecom, or
China Mobile, they have a budget of $7.5 billion in smartphone subsidies to help
promote your product. If your mobile supports video technology, the telecom company
will advertise it. Or if you buy three years of service for your iPhone, you receive the
phone free -- we’ll participate in similar activities. For example, a customer who once
was interested only in 2M broadband service could be lured into buying 8M broadband
service if we threw in a free high-definition computer. Then they could really enjoy their
new high-definition programs.  To contact the reporter on this story: Megan Shank at  mm.shank@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  