-- Steinbrueck, Steinmeier Urge Euro Bonds, More Funds in Challenge to Merkel
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-12-15T09:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/steinmeier-calls-for-haircuts-expanded-rescue-fund-as-spd-stance-hardens.html
Germany’s main opposition Social
Democratic Party called for joint euro-area bond sales and an
expansion of the 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund, in
a challenge to Chancellor  Angela Merkel  before tomorrow’s
European Union summit.  Merkel and other EU chiefs are “stumbling through” the
euro debt crisis instead of making a “more radical, targeted
effort” to end uncertainty, SPD members  Frank-Walter Steinmeier 
and  Peer Steinbrueck , respectively the former foreign minister
and finance minister in Merkel’s first-term coalition in Berlin
from 2005 to 2009, wrote in an opinion piece in today’s
Financial Times.  Europe needs a combination of so-called haircuts for
investors in Greek, Irish and Portuguese bonds and debt
guarantees for “stable” countries such as Spain and Italy.
These measures should be backed by an enhanced rescue fund and
the introduction of joint bond sales “in the medium term” in
return for closer budgetary cooperation, the two former
ministers said. Merkel rejects euro bonds or a bigger fund.  “German isolation has become a real concern,” they said.
“Now we need a signal that Germany wants a more European
Germany, rather than a more German Europe.”  Domestic opposition to Merkel’s path during the crisis is
hardening as she clashes with fellow euro-area governments
including Greece, Spain and Luxembourg over her insistence on
tighter budget controls and a permanent crisis-resolution as the
primary means to tackle the debt turmoil. EU leaders are due to
discuss the crisis at a summit in Brussels beginning tomorrow.  Talking ‘to Death’  “We’re talking things to death,” Luxembourg Foreign
Minister  Jean Asselborn , who supports joint euro region bond
sales, said in an interview in today’s Die Welt newspaper. EU
leaders should take “clear and unambiguous decisions” on the
future euro rescue system and avoid “creating further
uncertainties” that roil financial markets.  Steinmeier, who is parliamentary leader of the Social
Democrats, questioned the German government’s backing for the
European Central Bank’s bond-buying program as a means of
halting the contagion. The ECB risks turning into a “European
bad bank” loaded with toxic assets, he said on ARD television.  “Eurobonds will succeed only if complemented by new, far-
reaching political reforms,” he and Steinbrueck said in their
op-ed piece. “This means empowering European institutions to
establish tighter controls over fiscal and economic stability,
alongside common minimum standards on  wage and welfare policies ,
as well as capital and corporate taxation.”  The Social Democrats gained one percentage point to 24
percent, while their traditional allies in the Greens dropped a
point to 20 percent support in a weekly Forsa poll for Stern
magazine published today. Merkel’s Christian Democrats and her
Free Democratic coalition partner were both unchanged, at 34
percent and 4 percent respectively.  The Dec. 6-10 poll of 2,500 people has a margin of error of
as many as 2.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at  at
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  