-- Most German Stocks Decline as Deutsche Bank Falls; Siemens Rises
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-12-15T16:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/stocks-fall-0-3-in-germany-at-opening-allianz-basf-deutsche-bank-drop.html
Most  German stocks  dropped as
concern escalated that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will harm
the economic recovery after Moody’s Investors Service put
Spain’s credit rating on review for a possible downgrade.  Deutsche Bank AG lost 1.7 percent, following European
banking shares lower.  Nordex SE  fell 4.5 percent as HSBC
Holdings Plc downgraded the maker of wind turbines. Siemens AG
limited losses in the benchmark DAX Index after Europe’s largest
engineering company said it plans to sell its computer-services
unit.  The  DAX  slid 0.2 percent to 7,016.37 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Frankfurt as two stocks fell for each one that gained. The
gauge has still climbed 18 percent this year as corporate
profits rose, the Federal Reserve unveiled a $600 billion bond
purchase program to assist the U.S. economy’s recovery and the
European Union bailed out Greece and Ireland. The broader HDAX
Index dropped 0.1 percent today.  “Moody’s decision is giving the market the right direction
for bearish investors,” said  Andreas Lipkow , an equity trader
at MWB Fairtrade Wertpapierhandelsbank AG in Frankfurt.  Moody’s placed Spain’s Aa1 local and foreign currency
government bond ratings on review as it said the country will
need to raise about 170 billion euros ($227 billion) in 2011.  “Spain’s substantial funding requirements, not only for
the sovereign but also for the regional governments and the
banks, make the country susceptible to further episodes of
funding stress,”  Kathrin Muehlbronner , an analyst at Moody’s,
said in a report today. Even so, Spain’s rating will probably
remain in the “Aa” range and the “base case” assumption is
that the country won’t need a bailout.  U.S. Industrial Production  German stocks pared losses after the Federal Reserve
reported that U.S. industrial production increased more than
forecast in November, helped by gains in computers, home
electronics and appliances, signaling factories will support
economic growth into next year.  Germany stiffened its opposition to expanding government-
financed aid for debt-plagued euro nations, leaving the European
Central Bank to shoulder the bulk of the burden of fighting the
crisis.  With Chancellor  Angela Merkel  ruling out an increase in the
euro area’s 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) emergency fund,
Germany yesterday put the spotlight on the ECB by endorsing a
possible boost in its capital.  Deutsche Bank, Beiersdorf  Deutsche Bank  lost 1.7 percent to 39.49 euros as banking
shares had the worst performance among 19 industry groups in the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Handelsblatt reported that Deutsche Bank may not proceed
with its sale of BHF-Bank AG as some people inside Germany’s
biggest bank want to integrate parts of BHF. Deutsche Bank said
it aims to achieve “an important step forward” this year and
wants the lender to “stay as a whole.”  Beiersdorf AG  sank 5.7 percent to 41.20 euros. The Nivea
skin-cream maker forecast that its profitability will decrease
in 2011 as the company plans to “step up marketing spending
significantly” on its Nivea brand.  Aixtron AG,  a maker of equipment used to produce LED
screens , retreated 3.2 percent to 26.75 euros after U.S. peer
Veeco Instruments Inc. slumped 16 percent yesterday. Citigroup
Inc. yesterday downgraded the maker of gear for chipmakers and
data storage to “hold” from “buy.”  Nordex, Solarworld  Nordex  slid 4.5 percent to 5.58 euros as HSBC downgraded
the shares to “neutral” from “overweight.”  Solarworld AG tumbled 5.1 percent to 7.47 euros as DZ Bank
AG recommended selling shares of the solar company.  Siemens  advanced 2.3 percent to 93.19 euros, the fourth day
of gains, after saying it will divest its Siemens SIS unit to
Atos Origin SA in an 850 million-euro deal.  Separately, the engineering company is exploring options
for its Osram lighting business, including a possible initial
public offering or sale, according to three people with
knowledge of the discussions.  Hochtief AG  rallied 2.1 percent to 65.72 euros. Actividades
de Construccion y Servicios SA boosted its takeover offer for
Hochtief to overcome the German construction company’s
resistance.  The Spanish builder known as ACS will now offer nine of its
shares for every five shares of Hochtief, valuing the bid at
64.49 euros per share based on yesterday’s closing price, it
said today in a regulatory filing. ACS previously offered eight
shares for every five of Hochtief, worth 55.68 euros a share at
the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 