-- Sweden Raises Benchmark Interest Rate for Fourth Time Since July, to 1.25%
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2010-12-15T09:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/sweden-s-central-bank-raises-key-benchmark-rate-for-fourth-time-since-july.html
Sweden’s central bank raised its
 benchmark repo rate  for a fourth time since July and repeated a
forecast for more increases as policy makers try to steer the
European Union’s fastest recovery and curb household borrowing.  The Stockholm-based Riksbank raised the seven-day repo rate
a quarter of a percentage point to 1.25 percent, it said today
on its  website . The decision was expected by 17 of 22 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. Five predicted no change.  “The Swedish economy is growing at a record rate,” the
bank said in the statement. “The international recovery is
continuing, although concern over public finances in Europe has
increased.”  Sweden’s  gross domestic product  surged an annual 6.9
percent last quarter, the fastest pace in at least six years. At
the same time, credit growth has hovered around 9 percent all
year. Governor  Stefan Ingves  said he “personally” tracks
household indebtedness when deciding rates, in a Nov. 11 speech.
The bank said today higher rates are needed to slow borrowing
growth and stem the risk of imbalances.  “The hike was a step in the right direction,” said  Stefan Mellin , a senior analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Stockholm, in a
phone interview. “We do expect hikes at every central bank
meeting through the first half of next year.”  GDP Forecast Raised  The Riksbank raised its forecast for economic growth this
year to 5.5 percent from 4.8 percent previously. Output will
expand 4.4 percent in 2011, versus its earlier forecast for 3.8
percent, the bank estimates. The bank said it left its rate path
unchanged, though it now expects the repo rate to average 1.4
percent next quarter, versus an earlier forecast for 1.3
percent.  “One could have expected a slightly bigger increase in the
rate path, but the direction was justified given the very strong
data we have seen in Sweden recently,” Mellin said.  Sweden’s economic rebound is in contrast to the debt-driven
crisis in other parts of Europe, with euro members Greece and
Ireland relying on EU bailouts to stay afloat. Spain’s credit
rating may be cut from Aa1 by Moody’s Investors Service as
investors demand higher bond yields while refinancing needs may
stress the country’s markets further, the rating agency said
today. Standard & Poor’s yesterday cut the debt outlook for
Belgium, which is stuck with a caretaker government six months
after inconclusive elections.  The krona was little changed against the euro to trade at
9.0977 at 10:34 a.m. in Stockholm. Against the dollar, the krona
lost 0.4 percent to 6.8275.  Credit Growth  Credit growth  has averaged 8.7 percent over the past two
years, while lending to households grew an annual 8.6 percent in
October.  Headline inflation  accelerated to 1.8 percent in
November from 1.5 percent the previous month as consumer demand
picked up on the back of declining unemployment. The jobless
rate fell to 7.5 percent in October from an April high of 9.5
percent.  “Underlying inflationary pressures are still low in
Sweden, but are expected to increase as economic activity
strengthens,” the bank said. “There is a need to gradually
increase the repo rate to stabilize inflation at a level close
to the target of 2 percent and to avoid resource utilization
becoming too high.”  The bank reiterated its October forecast for the repo rate
to average 1.7 percent next year, 2.6 percent in 2012 and 3.3
percent in 2013. Headline inflation will average 2.2 percent in
2011, 2 percent in 2012 and 2.6 percent in 2013. The 2012
inflation forecast is 0.2 point lower than the bank’s October
outlook.  Risk of Imbalances  “A gradual rise in the repo rate can also contribute to
slower growth in household borrowing and reduce the risk of
imbalances building up,” the bank said.  Swedish house prices have risen 18 consecutive months and
jumped an annual 5 percent in the three months through October,
boosted by credit growth.  “We’ve had signs of pick-up in house prices, which is a
concern for the hawkish majority of the Riksbank board,” said
 Tina Mortensen , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in London, by
phone before the rate decision was announced. “We haven’t seen
a slowdown in credit growth.”  Norway’s central bank may also focus more on credit risks
when deciding rates, said  Gizem Kara , an economist at BNP
Paribas SA in London, by phone before the decision. The Oslo-
based bank announces its rate decision at 2 p.m. local time
today. All 19 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg expect policy
makers to leave the deposit rate at 2 percent for a fifth
meeting.  “Sweden is experiencing strong domestic demand and
inflation is running higher than expectations,” Kara said.
“Economic growth will remain robust over the coming quarters;
the Riksbank should keep on increasing rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gelu Sulugiuc  in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  