-- U.K. Jobless-Benefit Claims Fall Less Than Forecast
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-12-15T11:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/u-k-jobless-benefit-claims-fall-less-than-forecast-as-recovery-moderates.html
U.K.  jobless claims  fell less than
economists forecast in November, suggesting the recovery in the
labor market may be moderating.  The number of people receiving unemployment benefits
declined 1,200 from October to 1.46 million, the Office for
National Statistics said today in London. The median of 25
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was for a drop of 3,000.
Unemployment measured by International Labour Organization
methods rose by 35,000 to 2.5 million people in the quarter
through October.  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  said this week
the economic recovery “has remained on track” and may have
persisted in the fourth quarter. Nevertheless, policy makers
have split three ways on the need to raise the key interest rate
to tame inflation or buy more bonds to support growth as the
government readies the biggest budget cuts since World War II.  “The labor-market recovery is flagging a bit, and the big
question is whether the significant decline in public-sector
employment will be offset by higher private-sector employment,”
said  George Buckley , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.
“The bank is doing the right thing by keeping policy on hold.”  The pound extended its decline against the dollar after the
report and was at $1.5665 as of 11:42 a.m. in London, down 0.7
percent since yesterday.  Unemployment Rate  A separate report from the statistics office showed that
the number of people employed in the public sector fell 33,000
to 6 million in the third quarter from the previous three
months, the biggest drop since records began in 1999.  The ILO unemployment rate increased to 7.9 percent in the
three months through October from 7.8 percent in the previous
quarter, the statistics office said. That compares with 10.1
percent in the euro region, 9.8 percent in the U.S. and 5.1
percent in Japan.  U.K. employment fell 33,000 in the quarter through October,
bringing the total number of working people to 29.13 million,
the statistics office said. The number of people unemployed for
more than 12 months was 839,000, the highest in almost 14 years.  Policy makers have divided as inflation remains above the
government’s 3 percent upper limit, unexpectedly accelerating to
3.3 percent in November. Bean said Dec. 13 the strength of
 inflation  may suggest there’s less slack in the economy than
previously assumed, though there are risks “to both sides” of
the economic outlook.  ‘On Track’  “As 2010 draws to a close, the good news, then, is that
the recovery, here and more widely, has remained on track,”
Bean said. Moreover, the high rate of inflation “could indicate
that the margin of spare capacity is not as large as the
collapse in activity might suggest,” he added.  In November, the claimant count rate held at 4.5 percent
from the previous month, the statistics office said. The decline
in October jobless claims was revised to 5,200 from 3,700.  The Treasury’s fiscal watchdog has said the U.K. faces a
“sluggish” recovery and forecasts that while about 330,000
government jobs will be axed by 2015, the loss will be more than
offset by the creation of about 1.5 million private-sector jobs.  “This is going to be a long, difficult road and this
underlines the challenge we’ve got,” Work and Pensions Minister
 Chris Grayling  told Sky News television today. “The only way
you can create long-term sustainable employment growth is to
have a private sector that’s moving again.”  ‘Worrying Figures’  Douglas Alexander , the opposition Labour Party minister who
speaks on work and pensions, said in an e-mailed statement that
“these worrying figures show that the private sector is not yet
creating enough jobs to make up for the posts that are being cut
in the public sector.”  London-based  BAE Systems Plc , Europe’s biggest arms maker,
said Dec. 9 it will cut 1,300 jobs at seven sites across the
U.K. after the government terminated the Harrier and Nimrod
aircraft programs as it slashes defense spending.  Still, about 45 percent of companies plan to hire as normal
over the next six months, up from 11 percent a year ago, the
Confederation of British Industry said this week, citing a
survey it conducted with KPMG LLP. Standard Chartered Plc said
last month it plans to hire about 1,800 people for its global
trading and underwriting operations over the next three years.  Weekly pay including bonuses rose 2.2 percent in the three
months through October from a year earlier, compared with a 2.1
percent gain in the third quarter, the statistics office said.
Regular pay growth accelerated to a 19-month high of 2.3 percent
from 2.2 percent.  The  Monetary Policy Committee  voted this month to maintain
the benchmark rate at 0.5 percent and the bond-purchase program
at 200 billion pounds ($315 billion). Minutes of this month’s
decision will be published Dec. 22 and will show whether  Andrew Sentance  continued a push since June to raise the key rate,
while  Adam Posen  argued for a third month for more bond
purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  