-- British Pound Drops, Gilt Yields Rise Amid Investor Concern on Inflation
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-15T17:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/u-k-10-year-gilt-yield-stays-near-7-month-high-on-worry-about-inflation.html
Ten-year U.K. government bond yields
were near the highest in seven months and the pound slid amid
concern the central bank may struggle to contain inflation as
government austerity measures risk crimping growth.  Sterling dropped for a second day versus the dollar and
weakened against all but one of its 16 major counterparts after
a report showed jobless claims fell less than economists
estimated in November and unemployment rose in the quarter
through October. The 10-year breakeven rate, a measure of
inflation expectations, reached a six-month high after a report
yesterday showed British inflation remained above the
government’s 3 percent limit last month.  “When fixed-income markets are in such a rapid trend it’s
easy to jump on anything that supports a continuation, and
inflation is of concern,” said  Sam Hill , a fixed-income
strategist at RBC Capital Markets in London. “The data is
consistent with the theme of a gradual recovery. We’re unlikely
to see policy extremes” from the Bank of England in the near
future, he said.  The 10-year gilt  yield  rose two basis points to 3.62
percent as of 4:28 p.m. in London, after reaching 3.65 percent,
the highest since May 20. The 4.75 percent security maturing in
March 2020 fell 0.18, or 1.80 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,561)
face amount, to 108.8. The five-year note yield increased four
basis points to 2.35 percent.  The U.K. sold 3.5 billion pounds of bonds maturing in
January 2016 today for an average yield of 2.564 percent and the
government plans to sell 825 million pounds of inflation-
protected securities maturing in 2042 tomorrow.  The  pound  was down 1 percent against the dollar at $1.5617.
It weakened 0.6 percent versus the euro to trade at 85.30 pence.  Growth Forecast  The 10-year British bond yield has risen 39 basis points
this month as the prospects for global economic growth damped
appetite for the safest fixed-income assets. The yield on 10-
year U.S. Treasuries rose 22 basis points yesterday and reached
3.50 percent today for the first time since May today.  While economists estimate the U.K. economy will grow 2.9
percent in the fourth quarter from the same period a year ago,
they predict that the rate of growth will slow to 1.9 percent in
the second quarter next year, according to Bloomberg surveys.  Consumer prices will increase 2.9 percent in the second
quarter next year, from 3.1 percent this quarter, according to
separate analyst estimates. Unemployment will be little changed
at 7.85 percent, according to the estimates.  Inflation Outlook  “Inflation is at a point where it’s going to constrain the
Bank of England’s ability to act” to support economic growth,
said  Ian Stannard , a senior currency strategist in London at BNP
Paribas SA. The U.K. faces “slower growth and higher
inflation,” he said.  Consumers brought forward spending in December before a
government tax increase raises prices next year, the
Confederation of British Industry said today.  Data from the Office for National Statistics yesterday
showed consumer prices rose 3.3 percent from a year earlier
after a 3.2 percent increase in October. That’s the highest
since May and exceeded the 3.2 percent median estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The breakeven rate increased as much as four basis points
to 3.12 percentage points, the most since June.  The pound also fell as Europe’s deepening debt crisis added
to speculation that British banks will take losses on debt
holdings, according to  Ashraf Laidi , chief market strategist at
CMC Markets in London. Moody’s Investors Service said today it
may lower Spain’s credit rating because the government may
struggle to fund itself next year amid losses at banks.  Barclays Plc, Britain’s third-biggest bank, slid 3.7
percent in London trading.  Sterling has lost 1.6 percent in the past week, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track
a basket of 10 developed-country currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  