-- U.K. Mortgage Lending May Decline by a Third in 2011 as Weakness Persists
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/u-k-net-mortgage-lending-to-fall-by-a-third-in-2011-cml-says.html
U.K.  net mortgage lending  will
shrink by a third next year as the housing market shows
persisting weakness, the Council of Mortgage Lenders said.  Net mortgage lending will drop to 6 billion pounds ($9.5
billion) in 2011, the London-based lobby group said in an e-
mailed statement today. That compares with an estimated 9
billion pounds this year and a total of 40 billion pounds in
2008. The number of housing transactions will slip by 30,000 to
860,000, the CML said.  While U.K. house prices will avoid a “sharp” decline in
2011, weakness in the market “may persist for some months,”
the group said. The prospect of banks having to repay government
support programs from April and uncertainty about the raising of
finance through securitization and issuing bonds means the
availability of credit for first-time buyers “will remain
limited,” the CML said.  “The supply of funds to the mortgage market remains much
more limited than before the crisis, and households are much
less confident about taking on large-scale borrowing
commitments,” it said. “Uncertainty about the availability and
cost of mortgage funding will remain.”  Recent data have shown a mixed picture of the U.K. housing
and mortgage markets. Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property
Services Plc said on Dec. 10 that house prices increased to the
highest in more than two years in November. Mortgage lender
Halifax says prices fell 0.1 percent.  Mortgage approvals fell to an eight month-low in October
and demand for homes may suffer as the government implements the
deepest spending cuts since World War II, leading to the loss of
330,000 jobs.  ‘Flat’ Activity  The amount of gross home lending will stay unchanged at 135
billion pounds in 2011, the CML said.  “Activity in housing and mortgage markets is set to remain
broadly flat in 2011 and we do not envisage a return to the
lending levels that characterized the middle of the last decade
for many years to come,” the group said. “Given the continuing
economic uncertainties, there is little to encourage buyers.”  The number of Britons who say now is a good time to buy a
home dropped in December from a year earlier as the lack of
 mortgage  finance and economic uncertainty deter homebuyers, the
Building Societies Association said in a separate report today.  Forty-three percent of respondents in a quarterly survey
said they tended to agree or agreed strongly that this is a good
time to buy residential property, the organization representing
customer-owned lenders said in an e-mailed report today in
London. That compares with 58 percent a year earlier.  YouGov Plc  questioned 2,047 adults for the BSA survey
between Dec. 3 and Dec. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  