-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Rise 0.1%, Core Rate Up 0.1%
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-15T13:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/u-s-consumer-prices-rise-0-1-increase-0-1-excluding-food-energy-costs.html
The cost of living in the U.S. rose
less than forecast in November, indicating higher prices for
commodities such as fuel aren’t filtering through into other
goods and services.  The consumer-price index increased 0.1 percent after a 0.2
percent rise the prior month, the Labor Department said today in
Washington. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a gain of 0.2 percent. The so-called  core
measure , which excludes more volatile food and energy costs,
also rose 0.1 percent, matching the median forecast.  Retailers such as Target Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. are
discounting merchandise to stoke demand during the holiday
shopping season as  joblessness  lingers near 10 percent. Limited
inflation and a stagnant labor market underscore the Federal
Reserve’s decision yesterday to stay the course as it pursues
record monetary stimulus.  “There is upward pressure on input costs from rising
commodity prices,” Nigel Gault, chief U.S. economist at IHS
Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts, said before the
report. “But there’s still plenty of slack in the economy to
keep core inflation quiet.”  The measure of consumer prices was restrained by a second
straight drop in new vehicle costs, cheaper household
furnishings and a decline in natural gas. Airline fares rose by
the most since June 2008.  Stock-Index Futures  Stock-index futures held losses stemming from concern
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may derail the global economic
recovery after Moody’s Investors Service put Spain’s credit
rating on review for a possible downgrade. The March contract on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.2 percent to 1,234.3
at 8:33 a.m. in New York. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note
rose, pushing down the yield to 3.44 percent from 3.48 percent
late yesterday.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 80 economists for the
overall CPI ranged from no change to a gain of 0.3 percent. The
core rate rose for the first time since July.  In the 12 months ended in November, prices increased 1.1
percent, matching the median projection in the Bloomberg survey.  The core rate increased 0.8 percent in November from the
same month last year, exceeding the median forecast for a 0.6
percent gain.  Energy prices increased 0.2 percent from a month earlier,
reflecting gains in gasoline and fuel oil. Food prices also rose
0.2 percent in November, led by higher costs for meats and
cereals.  Housing Market  The ailing housing market is restraining the consumer price
index. Rents, which account for about 40 percent of core
consumer prices, have been held in check as foreclosures push
more houses into the rental market.  Owners-equivalent rent, one of the categories designed to
track rental prices, rose 0.1 percent for a second straight
month. Compared with November 2009, owners-equivalent rent was
up 0.2 percent.  The cost of medical care increased 0.1 percent last month.
New-car prices declined 0.4 percent, the most since January,
Tobacco costs fell 0.1 percent. Air fares increased 3 percent in
November.  Apparel costs climbed 0.2 percent in November and were down
0.8 percent from the same month last year.  Fed Stimulus  The ongoing slump in housing, unemployment near 10 percent
and a risk of sustained declines in prices are reasons why the
Fed last month announced it would buy up to $600 billion in
Treasuries through June. Yesterday, officials stood by the
pledge.  “Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable,
but measures of underlying inflation have continued to trend
downward,” Fed officials said yesterday in their Federal Open
Market Committee statement.  The Fed, which has a statutory mandate of fostering maximum
employment and price stability, said “the unemployment rate is
elevated, and measures of underlying inflation are somewhat
low.”  The CPI is the broadest of three monthly price gauges from
the Labor Department, because it includes goods and services.
Almost 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers pay for
services ranging from medical visits to airline fares and movie
tickets.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed the producer-
price index in November increased 0.8 percent and the cost of
goods excluding fuel and food rose 0.3 percent, both more than
forecast. The cost of goods imported into the U.S., reported
last week, rose 1.3 percent from the prior month, the most in a
year, and higher than the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Retail Prices  Retailers that are cutting prices are drumming up demand,
while those not discounting enough are struggling.  Best Buy Co. , the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, yesterday slashed its annual profit forecast amid
increasing competition from Wal-Mart and Target. Best Buy lost
TV sales in the third quarter to “the large discounters” that
promoted the least-expensive models, Chief Executive Brian Dunn
said on a conference call.  “What has really gone big in home theater so far this
season is opening price point, tier-three brands going out at
really, really hot prices,” Dunn, 50, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “We don’t feature them.”  Consumers bought cheaper models of flat-panel TVs with
screens of 36 inches and smaller for $229 to $299, Dunn said.
Rising demand for smartphones and tablet computers also hurt
spending on TVs, he said.  For Best Buy, “the U.S. business was pretty miserable,”
Joe Feldman, an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in New York,
said yesterday. “Sales are going to places like Amazon, Wal-
Mart, Target, Costco and Sears.”  Today’s report showed a 0.4 percent drop in the costs of
personal computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  