-- U.S. Homebuilder Confidence Unchanged in December Amid Depressed Demand
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-12-15T15:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/u-s-homebuilder-confidence-unchanged-in-december-amid-depressed-demand.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
was unchanged in December from a month earlier, indicating
residential construction will stay near depressed levels.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo  index 
of builder confidence held at 16, matching the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, data from the
Washington-based group showed today. Readings below 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor.  Builders from  Beazer Homes USA Inc.  to D.R. Horton Inc.
face a market struggling to heal after the end of a homebuyers’
tax credit of as much as $8,000 and, more recently, a rise in
mortgage rates.  Unemployment  near 10 percent threatens to fuel
foreclosures that may depress prices and impede recovery in the
industry that precipitated the worst recession since the 1930s.  “This confirms the Federal Reserve’s statement yesterday
that housing is depressed,” said  Jennifer Lee , a senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “Builders won’t
start to build until they see firm signs of demand. Sentiment
will probably grind forward.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 51 economists ranged
from 15 to 18. The gauge, which was first published in January
1985, reached a record low of 8 in January 2009 and averaged 54
in the five years before the recession began in December 2007.
The index was also at 16 in December 2009, evidence of the lack
of improvement in housing this year.  The builders group’s index of current single-family home
sales held at 16 this month. The gauge of buyer traffic
decreased to 11 from 12, and a measure of sales expectations for
the next six months held at 25.  Unemployment, Foreclosures  “The typical cold-weather slowdown in sales activity is
being accentuated by ongoing weakness in the job market, the
rising number of foreclosures and short-sales, and very
challenging credit conditions for both builders and buyers,”
NAHB Chairman Bob Jones, a homebuilder from Bloomfield Hills,
Michigan, said in a statement.  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  Builders in the Northeast showed the only gain in optimism,
with the index rising to 24 from 12. The Northeast has a smaller
survey sample and is therefore subject to greater month-to-month
volatility, NAHB said. Confidence in the Midwest, South and West
declined.  Rising foreclosures will weigh on housing prices. Home
values are poised to drop by more than $1.7 trillion in 2010,
exceeding the $1.05 trillion drop in 2009, according to Seattle-
based Zillow Inc., a closely held provider of home price data.  Mortgage Rates  Mortgage rates  are also increasing. The average rate on a
30-year fixed mortgage was 4.61 percent in the week ended Dec.
9, up from the record-low of 4.17 percent on Nov. 11, according
to Freddie Mac. McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac began keeping
records in 1971.  The Standard & Poor’s Homebuilder Supercomposite  Index  has
fallen 3.7 percent so far this year through yesterday, in
contrast to an 11 percent gain in the broader S&P 500 gauge.  D.R. Horton, the second-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, expects 2011 to be “challenging” for the industry,
Chief Executive Officer Donald Tomnitz said on a Nov. 12
earnings conference call. Beazer, an Atlanta-based builder of
homes for first-time buyers, also is cautious.  “Sustained high unemployment levels and the overhang of
foreclosures make it very difficult to predict when and to what
extent the housing market will recover,” Ian McCarthy, chief
executive officer of Beazer, said on a Nov. 5 conference call
with analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  