-- U.S. Stocks to Top Canada’s Next Year, MFC’s Petursson Says
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-12-15T13:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/u-s-stocks-to-top-canada-s-as-commodities-cool-off-mfc-s-petursson-says.html
U.S. stocks will outperform Canadian
equities next year for the first time since 2003 as investors
take advantage of lower U.S. valuations and commodity gains
slow,  Philip Petursson  of MFC Global Investment Management says.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will provide a total return
of about 10 percent to 12 percent in 2011, compared with 7
percent to 10 percent for the  S&P/TSX Composite Index , said
Petursson, managing director of the Portfolio Advisory Group at
the unit of Manulife Financial Corp.  “Investors are putting aside the macroeconomic concerns
and perhaps focusing again on the fundamentals of the individual
businesses,” said Petursson, whose unit manages about C$287
billion ($285 billion). “In the United States, company
fundamentals are better than they’ve been in a long time.”  The S&P/TSX has had a total return of  16 percent  this year,
compared with 14 percent for the S&P 500, as prices of gold, oil
and copper have increased by more than 11 percent each. Energy
and raw-materials companies make up 49 percent of Canadian
stocks and 16 percent of U.S. equities by market value,
according to  Bloomberg data .  Commodity producers may underperform other multinational
companies in 2011 as oil futures stagnate and prices of metals
catch up with shares of companies that mine them, Petursson
said.  Crude oil, which settled at $88.28 a barrel yesterday, will
trade between $70 and $90 now that supply has caught up with
demand, Petursson said. Gold and copper may continue to gain,
but raw-material producers will be unable to outperform the
commodities themselves as they have this year, he said.  Conservative Forecasts  An index of S&P/TSX materials stocks has soared  34 percent 
this year, reflecting how companies were undervalued due to
overly conservative commodity-price forecasts in 2009, Petursson
said.  “It comes down to how much growth do I think we’re going
to squeeze out of oil companies and copper companies and gold
companies versus consumer companies in the U.S. that have
significant operations over in Asia,” he said in an interview
in Toronto yesterday. “I think we can see higher growth” in
the second group.  Consumer-discretionary and industrial stocks, which have
 led the S&P 500  this year, stand to benefit again next year from
growing demand in emerging markets, Petursson said. Those
industries are twice as prominent in the U.S. as they are in
Canada based on share of total market value.  Valuations  After almost seven years of underperformance, U.S.
companies also have the advantage of lower valuations than their
Canadian peers, he said. S&P 500 stocks trade at $15.53 per
dollar of profit, compared with $20.50 for S&P/TSX stocks. On
Nov. 30, the  gap  between those two figures reached the widest
point since 2002.  Record cash on hand for U.S. companies will drive equity
returns further in 2011, Petursson said. In Canada, S&P/TSX
companies have less cash on their  balance sheets  than they did
at the end of 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  “What we’re hearing from companies is that they are more
open to increasing share buybacks, increasing dividends,
acquisition activities, than they’ve been in a long time,” he
said. “Bullish CEOs make for bullish markets.”  Companies in industries that tend to outperform in poor
economic times, such as utilities and consumer staples, are
likely to trail the rest of the market next year as the recovery
progresses, Petursson said. In Canada, banks may also lag behind
other groups, having jumped  89 percent  with dividends since the
end of 2008.  Concerns Overblown  Petursson said he’s not very concerned that China’s efforts
to restrain inflation or the European debt crisis will hurt
North American stocks.  Chinese tightening measures indicate confidence in
sustained growth in the country, he said. The failure of the
Irish phase of the European crisis to derail stock markets shows
Europe’s problems no longer have the same impact on equity
investors as they did earlier this year.  “It was barely a blip,” he said. “We haven’t seen more
than a 2 or 3 percent pullback through that time.”  Manulife is North America’s fourth-largest insurer and the
owner of John Hancock Financial Services Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 