-- U.S. Afghanistan War Study Notes Military Progress, Questions Transition
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-12-16T17:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/u-s-afghan-war-review-notes-progress-questions-transition.html
The Obama administration’s
classified Afghanistan war review concludes that while sending
more troops and civilian resources has yielded gains, it’s too
soon to say when a full transition to Afghan control will be
feasible, according to a U.S. official who worked on the
report.  An unclassified summary of the review released today by
the White House notes operational gains against al-Qaeda and
success in arresting the Taliban’s momentum. The assessment
found substantial improvement in the international training of
police and Afghan Army forces and increased cooperation by
Pakistan’s military in targeting insurgents on its side of a
porous border, the summary says.  “We are on track to achieve our goals,” President  Barack Obama  said today, while saying some U.S. gains remain
“fragile” and “reversible.” Al-Qaeda terrorists are
“hunkered down” and are under more pressure than at any point
in the past nine years, Obama said.  “We are focused on disrupting, dismantling and defeating
al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan,” Obama said. “Make no
mistake, we are going to remain relentless in disrupting and
dismantling that terrorist organization.”  Obama said he plans to visit Pakistan next year and will
insist that “terrorist safe havens” in Pakistan “must be
dealt with.”  Pushing Out Insurgents  In a letter to Congress yesterday, Obama said combat
operations are “gradually pushing insurgents to the edges of
secured population areas” and that U.S. and allied forces
“will continue to execute the strategy of clear-shape-hold-
build” until conditions allow for a turnover to Afghan
security forces.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today that
turnover will “begin in 2011 and conclude in 2014.”  The unclassified version of the assessment is being
released just over a year after Obama laid out the surge
strategy in a speech at the U.S. Military Academy at West
Point, New York. The report’s findings will help determine the
pace of a drawdown of U.S. troops scheduled to begin next year.  “Our strategy in Afghanistan is setting the conditions to
begin the responsible reduction of U.S. forces in July 2011,”
the summary said.  Time Needed  While the full report cites gains from Obama’s decision
last December to send 30,000 additional troops to Afghanistan
and to triple the number of civilian officials working on
issues such as economic development and justice reform, it also
suggests that a transition to effective Afghan control will
take time, the official, who asked not to be identified because
the full report is classified, said yesterday.  The U.S. and a NATO-led international force in Afghanistan
have about 150,000 troops, including about 95,000 from the
U.S., trying to turn back Taliban advances and train Afghan
soldiers and police to take over.  The summary released by the White House today affirms the
president’s timetable to begin withdrawing some U.S. forces in
July. Clinton plans to host talks with foreign ministers of
Afghanistan and Pakistan in Washington in early 2011 on
strengthening security, governance and their economies, the
summary said.  The combined cost of wars in Afghanistan and Iraq for the
year that ends Sept. 30, 2011, is estimated at $1.2 trillion,
according to the Office of Management and Budget.  Taliban Intimidation  While the full assessment found progress in both reducing
insurgent violence and improving government services, the
question remains how long it will take to complete a full
transition that puts Afghan officials in the lead and the U.S.
and international community in the background, said the
official who contributed to the review.  A central challenge raised by the military assessment is
determining when the transition to Afghan-led security will be
adequate to face down Taliban intimidation, the official said.  Similarly, on the civilian side, the Afghan government
hasn’t managed in many remote areas to build up adequate
capacity to deliver basic services, such as promoting
alternatives to opium-poppy farming and providing police
protection that would aid villagers’ efforts to break free from
Taliban influence.  “As we shift to transition, a major challenge will be
demonstrating that the Afghan government has the capacity to
consolidate gains,” the summary said.  Secure Cities First  The transition from U.S.-led to Afghan-directed governance
and security won’t look the same or happen at the same time
everywhere, the official said. Big cities will see stronger
Afghan leadership before rural areas do.  Corruption in the Afghan government and society, though a
serious concern, wasn’t seen as crippling the war effort, the
official said. While the report found room for improvement in
coordination with Pakistan, the official described significant
investment by Pakistan’s military in fighting insurgents in
tribal areas, including a tripling of Pakistani forces in North
West Frontier Province and the so-called Federally Administered
Tribal Areas.  The summary said better cooperation is needed with
Pakistan along that nation’s border with Afghanistan to prevent
the creation of havens for terrorists.  Military means alone can’t be relied upon along the
border, the summary said, and strategies for economic
development should be pursued.  Right Direction  “We are headed in the right direction, both in terms of
U.S. focus and Pakistani cooperation,” the summary said.
“However, better balance and integration of the various
components of our strategy will be required.”  The report, the official said, summarizes submissions made
by the Pentagon and the State Department starting in October,
including answers to dozens of questions posed by the White
House and numerous discussions among senior military and
diplomatic officers with their counterparts at the National
Security Council.  Obama met Dec. 14 with Clinton, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and other top military and national security advisers to
go over the classified review.  The death on Dec. 13 of  Richard Holbrooke , Obama’s special
envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan, may complicate the
administration’s effort to carry out the president’s policies.
Holbrooke, 69, fell ill Dec. 10 during a meeting with Clinton
at the State Department and underwent emergency surgery to
repair a torn aorta. The State Department has named a career
foreign service officer,  Frank Ruggiero , as acting special
representative.  Force Levels  The review doesn’t call for any changes in U.S. force
levels for the war, now in its 10th year, Gibbs said at a White
House briefing Dec. 14. The pace and size of any drawdown in
Afghanistan next year still will be dictated by the security
situation, he said.  The havens across the border in Pakistan pose severe
problems for forces in Kandahar, said Army Colonel Jeffrey
Martindale, commander of Task Force Raider and the 3,500-strong
1st Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry Division, which has
responsibility for the Kandahar and Arghandab districts in the
province.  Pakistan Links  “We do know that the leadership for the Taliban that are
operating within my area are directed from leadership that are
in Pakistan,” Martindale told reporters at the Pentagon
yesterday via video conference from Camp Nathan Smith in
Kandahar City. “We know that some of the leaders now have gone
back, and they have sanctuary there.”  Marine Corps Major General Richard P. Mills said last week
that a 10-month fight to turn back the Taliban is “over” in
Marjah, an area that formed the crux of a February offensive.
The administration is drawing on examples such as Marjah to
show that its strategy is working.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Indira Lakshmanan  in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 