-- U.S. Stock Futures Maintain Losses After Manufacturing, Inflation Reports
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2010-12-15T13:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/u-s-stock-futures-maintain-losses-after-manufacturing-inflation-reports.html
U.S. stock futures maintained
losses, with benchmark indexes poised to retreat from two-year
highs, as faster-than-estimated growth in New York-area
manufacturing failed to offset concern that Europe’s debt crisis
will worsen. Treasuries and the dollar advanced.  March contracts on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.2
percent to 1,234.1 as of 8:33 a.m. in New York. The 10-year
Treasury yield slipped three basis points to 3.44 percent after
sliding nine points earlier. The Dollar Index climbed 0.4
percent to 79.705.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  climbed to 10.6, exceeding the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, from minus 11.1 in
November. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the so-
called Empire State Index.  The consumer-price index increased 0.1 percent after a 0.2
percent rise the prior month, the Labor Department said in a
separate report. The median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a gain of 0.2 percent. The so-
called core measure, which excludes more volatile food and
energy costs, also rose 0.1 percent, matching the median
forecast.  U.S. stocks rose yesterday as data showing retail sales
beat estimates helped equities withstand a surge in Treasury
yields.   19 Percent Rally  The S&P 500 has risen about 19 percent since Fed Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke indicated on Aug. 27 that he might pump more
cash into financial markets through bond purchases. The Fed
announced after its November meeting that it will buy $600
billion in Treasuries. Fed officials yesterday left their target
for the federal funds rate, which covers overnight interbank
loans, in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, marking two years of
near-zero rates.  U.S. index futures followed European and Asian shares lower
earlier as concern escalated that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
may derail the global economic recovery after Moody’s Investors
Service put Spain’s credit rating on review for a possible
downgrade.  Spain’s credit rating may be cut from Aa1 by Moody’s
because of potential losses in the banking system and deficits
in the country’s regions.  “Spain’s substantial funding requirements, not only for
the sovereign but also for the regional governments and the
banks, make the country susceptible to further episodes of
funding stress,” Kathrin Muehlbronner, an analyst at Moody’s,
said  in a report today. At the same time, Spain’s rating will
probably remain in the “Aa” range and the “base case”
assumption is that the country won’t need a bailout.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  