-- U.S. Charges 2 Men With Securities Fraud, Running Fake New York Hedge Fund
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-12-15T22:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/u-s-charges-2-men-with-securities-fraud-running-fake-new-york-hedge-fund.html
Two men were indicted on conspiracy,
securities fraud and wire fraud charges for allegedly cheating
investors by operating a phony New York-based hedge fund.  William Shternfeld and Benjamin Koifman operated A.R.
Capital Global Fund LP, an unregistered investment adviser, and
ARC Global Fund, a purported hedge fund that invested primarily
in equity of international real estate, prosecutors in the
office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  said today.  From 2004 to 2006, Shternfeld and Koifman allegedly engaged
in a scheme with unidentified co-conspirators to induce at least
70 investors to invest about $20 million in the ARC Global Fund
by making false statements about it.  The U.S. didn’t specify the amount of investor losses,
saying only that one individual invested “millions” in the
funds and a second invested more than $1.8 million.  On Dec. 1, two other men, Igor Levin, 40, of Brooklyn, New
York, and Yevgeny Shvartsshteyn, 40, of Belle Harbor, New York,
pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit mail and
wire fraud before U.S. Magistrate Judge  Ronald Ellis .  The two said they ran A.R. Capital, a general partner of
A.R. Capital Global Fund LP, which they described as a hedge
fund that invested primarily in equity of international real
estate, oil, gas and other commodities, according to a statement
from Bharara’s office.  No Such Investments  The U.S. said that, in reality, there were no such
investments and more than $7 million of investor funds were
wired instead to various bank accounts in the Ukraine. Levin and
Shvartsshteyn received the proceeds from these illegally
obtained investments, prosecutors said.  Levin and Shvartsshteyn both face as many as 20 years in
prison when they are sentenced by U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein  in New York Feb. 25.  Shternfeld and Koifman appeared today before U.S.
Magistrate Judge  Henry Pitman  in New York, who agreed to release
them on $500,000 bond secured by $25,000 in cash and property.
They are scheduled to appear at a hearing before U.S. District
Judge Sidney Stein on Jan. 3.  Arthur Gershfeld, a lawyer representing both men, declined
to comment on the charges after court today.  The case is U.S. v. Shternfeld, 10-cr-00031, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 