-- House Backs Stand-Alone Bill to Repeal `Don't Ask, Don't Tell' in Military
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2010-12-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/u-s-house-set-to-vote-today-on-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-repeal.html
The U.S. House yesterday passed a
bill that would repeal the law prohibiting military service by
men and women who are openly gay.  The 250-175 vote on stand-alone legislation is an attempt
by House leaders to speed passage of the measure in the Senate
before Congress adjourns for the year.  An earlier attempt to lift the ban as part of a broader
defense policy bill unraveled last week when Senate Democrats
fell three votes short of the 60 they needed to overcome
Republican opposition and take up that measure.  “What this does is to strip away any excuse” for not
voting on the repeal of the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy on
its merits, Representative  Barney Frank , a gay Democrat from
Massachusetts, said in backing the stand-alone legislation.  Republican leaders of the House Armed Services Committee
criticized Democratic congressional leaders for putting the
repeal measure ahead of passage of the annual bill authorizing
all military programs.  “In a time of war, this is unconscionable,” they wrote in
a letter yesterday to the top Democrat in the Senate, Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada, and his House counterpart, Speaker
 Nancy Pelosi  of California.  The House bill is sponsored by Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer 
of Maryland and Democratic Representative  Patrick Murphy  of
Pennsylvania, an Iraq war veteran who lost his re-election bid
last month.  Senate Bill  After last week’s Senate vote on the defense authorization
bill, Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, and
Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, said they planned to
introduce a freestanding measure repealing the “don’t ask,
don’t tell” policy, which has prevented gay service members
from revealing their sexual orientation.  “By voting again, it is my hope that we will encourage the
Senate to take long-overdue action,” Pelosi said.  The Democratic-controlled House in May voted 234-194 to
include an amendment repealing the ban as part of the annual
defense authorization bill. Fifteen Republicans voted for the
measure yesterday, up from five Republicans who backed it in May.  Prospects for Senate passage of separate legislation on the
“don’t ask, don’t tell” policy before year’s end may depend on
the progress made on other measures, such as extending the 2001
and 2003 tax cuts, providing stopgap funding for the government
until appropriations measures for fiscal 2011 are passed, and
approving ratification of a nuclear-arms treaty with Russia.  Reid plans to take up the repeal bill in the Senate
“before the end of session,” a Reid spokeswoman,  Regan Lachapelle , wrote in an e-mail.  Public Support  Repealing the policy, enacted in 1993 during President  Bill Clinton ’s administration, enjoys broad public support. A new
Washington Post-ABC News  poll  found that 77 percent of Americans
say gay and lesbian service members who disclose their sexual
orientation should be allowed to serve.  If the ban isn’t repealed this month, supporters would face
the prospect, starting in January, of pushing the measure
through a Republican majority in the House and a larger
Republican minority in the Senate.  Only one Republican voted in the Senate last week to bring
the measure to the floor for a final vote.  The courts ultimately may decide the issue if Congress
fails to act. A federal trial judge in September ruled the ban
unconstitutional. The Supreme Court last month allowed the law
to remain in effect during appeals.  Court Decision  In a written statement, Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell 
said that Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  welcomed the House vote
and urged the Senate “to pass the legislation this session,
enabling the Department of Defense to carefully and responsibly
manage a change in this policy instead of risking an abrupt
change resulting from a decision in the courts.”  The chiefs of the Army, the Air Force and the Marine Corps
have said that any change in policy should be delayed.  Republican Representative  Duncan Hunter  of California said
yesterday that the military “is not the place to have a liberal
crusade to create a liberal utopia and experiment” in a time of
war.  At a press conference after the vote, Democrats described
House passage as an important civil-rights victory, ensuring
equality for soldiers who serve the nation in combat.  “It’s about time our gay and lesbian service members will
no longer have to lie or mislead” to continue their service,
said Representative  Jared Polis , a gay Democrat from Colorado.  They were joined by Mike Almy, a former Air Force major who
was discharged under the policy.  E-Mail Searches  “The Air Force took time out from the war to search my
private e-mails,” Almy said, in explaining how his sexual
orientation was discovered. “It is time to end this
discrimination.”  President  Barack Obama  praised the House vote in a
statement.  “I have consistently called for the repeal of this law,”
said Obama, who as a candidate in 2008 pledged to end the ban.
“Moving forward with the repeal is not only the right thing to
do, it will also give our military the clarity and certainty it
deserves. We must ensure that Americans who are willing to risk
their lives for their country are treated fairly and equally by
their country.”  If the repeal bill becomes law, the ban would be lifted 60
days after Congress receives certification from Obama, Gates and
Admiral  Michael Mullen , the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, that repeal wouldn’t hinder military readiness and that
the Defense Department is prepared to implement it.  To contact the reporter on for this story:
 David Lerman  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 