-- U.S. Fuel, Safety Mandates May Raise Auto Prices, Deter Sales, Study Says
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-12-15T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/u-s-mandates-may-raise-auto-prices-depress-sales-study-says.html
Proposed mandates for automakers to
meet stricter fuel-economy and safety standards in the U.S.
would depress  sales  to consumers and employment in the industry
by increasing the cost of vehicles, a research group said today.  The average vehicle cost would rise by more than 22 percent
if the U.S. implements its most stringent emissions proposals
for 2025, according to the Ann Arbor, Michigan-based  Center for
Automotive Research . The group’s cost-increase estimates, which
account for consumers’ fuel savings from improved efficiency,
shrink to 10 percent if gas prices double in that span.  Automakers in the U.S. may be required to almost double
vehicle fuel economy to more than 60 mpg by 2025, the Obama
administration said in October. Auto-safety regulators proposed
requiring backup cameras earlier this month and may also mandate
additional air bags and technologies that alert drivers before
potential crashes, according to the study.  “These mandates are considered by us to be a considerable
challenge,”  Sean McAlinden , chief economist for the group, said
today in a presentation in Ypsilanti, Michigan. “We recommend a
more serious consideration of likely future costs of these new
technologies and moderation in the formulation of mandates to
reach certain policy objectives.”  The study assumes automakers will use a combination of
cheaper methods to improve fuel efficiency such as weight
reduction, smaller engines and turbochargers, and more expensive
technologies such as hybrid and electric powertrains.  Older Fleet  The more expensive technologies are also the most effective
in helping automakers achieve fuel-economy targets, adding costs
for manufacturers, the group’s researchers found.  More expensive autos would lead consumers to defer
purchases and hold onto their older vehicles longer, which could
lead to higher emissions than if mandates were less stringent,
McAlinden said.  Consumers replacing older vehicles with new ones at a
slower rate would reduce manufacturing jobs while benefiting
aftermarket and auto-repair companies, he said.  The Center for Automotive Research is a non-profit group
 funded by  federal and state governments, corporate sources, and
by holding conferences.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Ypsilanti, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 