-- Lufthansa to Spend $227 Million on Cabin Upgrade for Short-Haul Jet Fleet
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-12-15T15:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/lufthansa-to-spend-170-million-euros-on-short-haul-fleet-upgrade.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG  will spend 170
million euros ($227 million) upgrading the seats and cabins of
its single-aisle jet fleet as it seeks to lift fares and bolster
market share on European routes.  The revamp, which will add slimmer seats that boost legroom
while increasing capacity, covers 170 existing aircraft and 19
that have yet to be delivered, Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa
said in a statement today. Food provision will also be revised.  Europe’s second-biggest airline is upgrading the short-haul
fleet for the first time since 2006 in an effort to return
European yields, a measure of fares, to pre-recession levels as
it vies for customers with Ryanair Holdings Plc and EasyJet Plc.  “One of the big battlefields is in Europe against low-cost
and no-frills airlines, and this increases our competitiveness
in the leisure segment and secures market share in the corporate
segment,”  Thierry Antinori , head of sales and marketing at
Lufthansa main passenger unit, said in an interview.  Installation of slim-line seats made by Germany’s Recaro
GmbH will extend legroom by at least 4 centimeters (1.6 inches)
while allowing the addition of 2,000 more berths, equal to 12
extra planes. The carrier said the design will cut the weight of
its Boeing Co. 737s by more than 330 kilograms (728 pounds) and
reduce the fuel consumption of Airbus SAS A319s by 4.3 percent.  Chocolate, Hot Food  A new cabin service will include snacks such as muesli bars
and chocolate on domestic flights and hot meals for passengers
on trips of more than two hours.  Lufthansa has allotted 1.2 billion euros to improve all of
its aircraft interiors through 2015. The upgrade includes a new
entertainment program and re-introduction of broadband internet
access on intercontinental flights.  The carrier is rolling out new first-class cabins on more
than 80 international routes in a bid to match rivals including
Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Qatar Airways Ltd. The overhaul
extends a design introduced with its Airbus A380 superjumbos.  Europe accounted for 48 percent of the Lufthansa-brand
passenger unit’s revenue of 14.9 billion euros last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  