-- Human Hemoglobin May Turn Staph Aureus Bacteria Deadly, Researchers Find
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-12-15T22:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/human-hemoglobin-may-turn-staph-aureus-bacteria-deadly-researchers-find.html
Human  hemoglobin , the oxygen
carrying protein in red blood cells, is the most efficient fuel
for  Staphylococcus aureus  infections, according to a study that
may help explain how the bacteria homes in on certain patients
with deadly consequences.  Hemoglobin also contains the iron needed for bacteria to
grow and spread. Researchers led by Gleb Pishchany from
Vanderbilt University Medical School’s  microbiology department 
showed in laboratory testing how Staph aureus latches on more
easily to hemoglobin from humans than other mammals to cause
invasive infections.  The findings, published in the journal  Cell Host & Microbe ,
raise the possibility that genetic variations in human
hemoglobin may make some people more vulnerable to the bacteria.
While one in three people have staph living in their noses, not
everyone gets an infection. Those who fall ill experience
 everything  from skin infections and food poisoning to deadly
bloodstream disease and inflammation inside the  heart  valves.  “Human hemoglobin is a factor that impacts the host
susceptibility to S. aureus,” the researchers said. The
bacteria’s affinity for human hemoglobin allows it to
efficiently use the protein as a source for iron that can
bolster colonization and disease, the researchers concluded.  Researchers said mice that are genetically engineered to
express human hemoglobin will allow them to reach findings on
how staph aureus infects people. While much of the information
known about staph infections comes from working with mice, they
don’t perfectly model human disease, the investigators said.  “Importantly, many bacterial pathogens utilize hemoglobin
as an iron source,” they said. “Therefore, human hemoglobin
expressing mice may be valuable for studies into a variety of
infectious diseases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  