-- Hungarian Yields Decline to Two-Week Low Ahead of Government Debt Auction
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2010-12-15T07:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/hungarian-yields-decline-to-two-week-low-ahead-of-government-debt-auction.html
Hungary’s bond yields fell to the
lowest in more than two weeks as investors returned to riskier
assets, reducing costs before the government’s sale of 45
billion ($218 million) forint of debt at its auction tomorrow.  Gains in Hungary’s 5.5 percent February 2014 bond sent the
yield to 7.69 percent yesterday, the lowest since Nov. 25,
compared with 7.909 percent when they were last sold on Dec. 2.
The yield rose to 7.73 percent today. The government will offer
bonds due in 2014, 2016 and 2020 at its biweekly sale, according
to data from the debt management agency on Bloomberg.  “The international environment has changed, investors have
become more open towards riskier assets such as Hungarian
bonds,” said  Tamas Hegedus , a trader at KBC Groep NV’s K&H Bank
Nyrt. unit in Budapest. The yields at the auction may fall as
much as 25 basis points from two weeks ago, Hegedus said.  The European Central Bank has accelerated bond purchases
from Ireland, Portugal and Greece since the start of the month
to stop contagion from spreading, according to traders familiar
with the transactions who declined to be identified because the
transactions are confidential.  “There is confidence that authorities in Europe are doing
what it takes,”  Zsolt Kondrat , a Budapest-based economist at
the local unit of Bayerische Landesbank, said in a phone
interview. He said the decision by U.S. President  Barack Obama 
to extend tax cuts to help the economy recover has also
supported emerging-market assets.  Hungary, the European Union’s most indebted eastern member,
raised 51 billion forint at a sale of government bonds on Dec. 2
as borrowing costs jumped on concern Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis will spread.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andras Gergely  in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  