-- Unitech Shares Decline After Saying It Will Respond to Eligibility Notice
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-12-15T07:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/unitech-shares-decline-after-saying-it-will-respond-to-eligibility-notice.html
Unitech Ltd. , India’s second-biggest
developer by assets, fell in Mumbai trading after the company’s
mobile-phone venture received a government order to prove it’s
entitled to keep offering wireless services.  The company, whose telecom venture is majority owned by
Norway’s  Telenor ASA , declined as much as 3.2 percent and traded
at 62.10 rupees, down 2 percent, as of 12:30 p.m. The shares
have fallen 25 percent this year, compared with the benchmark
 Sensex Index ’s 13 percent advance.  Unitech Wireless, and Emirates Telecommunications Corp.’s
Indian unit, were among companies that got notices yesterday
asking them to prove the validity of their mobile-phone licenses
within 60 days. The government is due to issue similar letters
to the owners of as many as 85 licenses as part of a probe into
the sale of second-generation wireless airwaves at below-market
rates.  The telecommunications ministry sent the so-called “show-
cause notices,” an initiation of legal action against the
carriers, after an audit that said they bought permits in 2008
after suppressing facts and submitting fictitious documents.  Etisalat DB Telecom Pvt. and Unitech Wireless will present
their cases to the government within the stipulated time, the
two companies said in e-mails yesterday.  Unitech Wireless welcomes the “intent to bring in
transparency, justice and equity through this structured
approach,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  Telenor, Scandinavia’s biggest phone company, owns a 67.25
percent stake in Unitech Wireless, according to a Feb. 10
statement from Unitech to the Bombay Stock Exchange. Unitech
holds the remaining stake in the wireless venture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  