-- Uralkali Said to Be Near Deal to Buy Producer Silvinit
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-12-16T18:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/uralkali-said-to-be-near-agreement-to-take-over-potash-producer-silvinit.html
OAO Uralkali , Russia’s biggest
fertilizer company, is nearing an agreement to buy  OAO Silvinit ,
its largest domestic competitor with a market value of $6.9
billion, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Uralkali won government approval to create a national
champion to compete internationally, the people said, declining
to be identified because the plan is confidential. The deal is
likely to be announced this month, they said.  Russian billionaire  Suleiman Kerimov  and partners acquired
controlling stakes in Berezniki, Ural Mountains-based Uralkali
and Silvinit between June and August and have been seeking to
merge the two. The combined group would account for 17 percent
of the world’s potash output, making it the second-largest
producer after Canada’s  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
according to  Fertecon Ltd. , a U.K.-based industry consultant.  The Russian merger will have a “positive effect” on the
market, Potash Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Bill Doyle  said on
an analyst call, adding he expects a deal in the first quarter.  Alexey Sotskov , a spokesman for Uralkali in Moscow, and
 Anton Subbotin , representing Silvinit, declined to comment.
 Dmitry Peskov , a spokesman for Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ,
said the premier is “informed about the ongoing merger” and
declined to comment on any government approval.  Price Gains  The world’s eight largest potash miners, whose market
control already exceeds that of oil cartel OPEC, have been
seeking to tighten their grip on prices of the crop nutrient.
BHP Billiton Ltd. last month scrapped a $40 billion bid for
 Potash Corp.  following opposition from Canada’s lawmakers.  With the global population adding 75 million people a year,
food demand is set to put further strain on crops, increasing
the need for fertilizer. Consolidation among producers of
potash, a form of potassium used to boost yields by helping
plants withstand dry soil, has caused concern in countries such
as India, the biggest importer last year, that prices will rise.  A fivefold surge in potash prices over 2007-2008 led to at
least eight class-action claims in the U.S. over alleged
collusion, a charge the producers denied. Potash was among the
last commodities to plunge in the global recession as suppliers
cut output to prop up prices. Potash Corp. used a third of its
capacity last year, while none of its seven largest rivals used
more than 80 percent, Fertecon and Potash Corp. data show.  Kerimov directly owns 25 percent of Uralkali through his
Kaliha Finance Ltd. holding company, and together with partners
controls 53 percent, Uralkali said in June.  “We expect that minority shareholders of Silvinit’s voting
shares will sell their stakes if offered a small premium to the
current market level,”  Mikhail Safin , an analyst at Renaissance
Capital in Moscow, wrote in a note today.  Uralkali rose 4.4 percent to 220.54 rubles at the 6:45 p.m.
close of trade in Moscow, while Silvinit advanced 1.9 percent to
27,601.94 rubles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 