-- Van Loan Says Canada-EU Trade Talks to Continue, Ahead of Expectations
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-12-15T16:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/van-loan-says-canada-eu-trade-talks-to-continue-ahead-of-expectations.html
Canada and the European Union have
agreed to continue negotiations on a free trade agreement, the
top trade officials from the two regions said today.  Trade Minister  Peter Van Loan , who met today with EU Trade
Commissioner  Karel De Gucht  in Ottawa, told reporters the
negotiations have been proceeding ahead of expectations.  “Commissioner De Gucht and I are satisfied with the
substantial progress that has been made in the negotiations,”
Van Loan said.  Officials from Canada and the European Union will begin a
sixth round of negotiations next month on a trade agreement that
will include government procurement and investment and
regulatory standardization, which would make it deeper than the
North American Free Trade  Agreement . The two sides plan to
complete negotiations next year.  “As we now enter the final crucial stages, it’s vital for
both sides to double up their efforts to reach our common
goal,” De Gucht told reporters in Ottawa. “It is really
important to remember that trade is a two-way street.”  De Gucht cited the EU’s interest in opening up government
procurement markets, while Van Loan said “geographical
indications” for food items is also being discussed.  Bilateral Agreements  Canada, which has completed eight trade accords since Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper  came to power in 2006, has been turning
to bilateral trade agreements to reduce its dependence on a
slowing U.S. economy amid stalled talks at the World Trade
Organization. Canada also is negotiating free-trade agreements
with Turkey, India and South Korea.  Van Loan said he supports an ambitious conclusion of the
Doha round of trade talks at the WTO, while De Gucht said only
an ambitious timetable can “save” a global pact. Trade
ministers will meet in January in Davos, Switzerland, to discuss
the Doha round, Van Loan said.  A joint study by Canada and the EU found that a trade
accord would boost the Canadian economy by C$12 billion ($11.9
billion) annually. Europe is Canada’s second-biggest trade
partner after the U.S.  De Gucht also said a trade agreement with the United States
is not on their “radar screen for the moment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 