-- Virgin Atlantic Acknowledges Deal Interest After Report of Delta Approach
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2010-12-15T17:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/virgin-atlantic-says-it-received-enquiries-after-report-of-delta-approach.html
Richard Branson ’s  Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. , which signaled it was open to a merger six months
ago, said it has attracted interest from several parties.  Closely held Virgin confirmed the contacts after Sky News
said  Delta Air Lines Inc.  was among carriers exploring a tie-up.
The U.K. company, in which Branson has a 51 percent stake, hired
Deutsche Bank AG to explore options after competitors used
mergers to bulk up and trans-Atlantic rivals  British Airways Plc 
and  AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines won approval to deepen ties.  With non-European investment in the region’s carriers
limited to minority holdings, any sale will likely hinge on
whether Singapore Airlines Ltd. is prepared to sell all or part
of a 49 percent stake acquired in 1999, said  Laurie Price ,
director of aviation strategy at Mott MacDonald Group Ltd.  “Virgin can’t do anything without Singapore’s agreement,”
Price said. “And having survived the worst slump in at least 40
years, why would you pull out when the market is on the turn? I
would expect the value to be greater in a year or 18 months.”  Greg Dawson, a Virgin spokesman, said in a statement late
yesterday that the carrier has received “a number of lines of
enquiry,” though it’s “far too early” to give details and
Deutsche Bank’s work on the plan will take a number of months.  Free Agent  Virgin, which flies to 30 cities including 10 in the U.S.,
according to its website, isn’t in one of the three big global
groups that help carriers cooperate through code-share deals and
marketing pacts, though Singapore Airlines is a founding member
of the Star Alliance, a rival to Atlanta-based Delta’s SkyTeam.  “Virgin Atlantic has got to be in some sort of alliance to
get critical marketing mass,” said  Andrew Miller , chief
executive officer of CAPA Consulting LLC, which advises
airlines. “In the new world where airlines are struggling to
survive, doing it alone is going to be difficult”  Airline earnings may drop 40 percent next year on slower
economic growth, higher fuel costs and state austerity measures,
the  International Air Transport Association  said yesterday.  Gulf Interest  In addition to Delta, other interest in Virgin has come
from Gulf carriers, Sky News said in its report, without
identifying specific airlines. Like the U.K. company, Mideast
operators such as Dubai-based Emirates aren’t in alliances.  John Strickland , director of the JLS aviation consultancy,
said such a tie-up was less likely than one in the U.S.  “I’m skeptical that a Middle Eastern company would be
interested,” Strickland said. “They tend to plow their own
furrow, and they don’t gain further access to the world because
they already have that.”  Emirates, the world’s largest international carrier, said
it wasn’t in talks with Virgin. Qatar Airways Ltd. declined to
comment and Etihad Airways of Abu Dhabi couldn’t be reached.  “It’s nothing to do with us,” Emirates President  Tim Clark 
said in a telephone interview. “Virgin must be in a state of
limbo at the moment with all the consolidation that’s happening
in Europe. They must be worried about what’s going on.”  A deal with Virgin would help Delta’s SkyTeam bolster
operations at London’s Heathrow airport, the busiest in Europe.
The  group  doesn’t have a U.K. member, whereas British Airways is
in Oneworld and Star includes  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  unit BMI,
the second-largest carrier at Heathrow.  “As a matter of policy, we don’t comment on industry rumor
or speculation about potential partnerships,” Delta spokeswoman
 Betsy Talton  said.  Lufthansa spokesman  Andreas Bartels  declined to comment on
whether the airline is considering investing in Virgin.  Singapore Stake  Virgin might be open to consolidation, CEO  Steve Ridgway 
said in a June interview with Bloomberg Television. There is
potential for Virgin to “grow to become part of a bigger
group,” he said.  Ridgway said then that Singapore Air’s holding could be
offered for sale as the Asian carrier modifies its strategy to
reflect the expansion of the Indian and Chinese markets. The
 world’s second-largest  carrier by market value has repeatedly
said it’s exploring options regarding the stake. Spokesman
 Nicholas Ionides  today referred all questions to Virgin.  British Airways, American and Iberia Lineas Aereas de
Espana SA in October began a trans-Atlantic alliance by sharing
booking codes on more than 2,700 services. Virgin had campaigned
against regulatory approval for the tie-up. BA and Madrid-based
Iberia are also set to complete a merger next month.  Virgin Atlantic operates 35 twin-aisle planes, according to
data provided by London-based Ascend Worldwide Ltd.  Ten Airbus SAS A330s will join the fleet from early next
year, according to the airline’s  website . It has also ordered
six Airbus A380 superjumbos for delivery from 2015 and 15 Boeing
Co. 787 Dreamliners that will start operations in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  