-- Vivendi to Get $1.7 Billion in End of Polish Dispute
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-15T10:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/vivendi-to-get-1-7-billion-in-end-of-polish-dispute-with-deutsche-telekom.html
Vivendi SA  will receive 1.25 billion
euros ($1.7 billion) as part of a deal to end a dispute with
 Deutsche Telekom AG  over the ownership of a Polish
telecommunications group.  Vivendi will give up rights to the shares of Polska
Telefonia Cyfrowa Sp. z o.o. under an accord signed today with
Deutsche Telekom and the creditors and primary shareholder of
Poland’s  Elektrim SA , the Paris-based company said in a
statement. Deutsche Telekom will be recognized as the sole owner
of PTC, Poland’s third-largest mobile-phone operator.  Vivendi, whose units include the world’s largest video-game
and music companies, aims to take full control of its domestic
assets under Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy . The
company is seeking to buy out the 44 percent stake held by
Vodafone Group Plc in SFR, the Vivendi unit that is France’s
second-largest telecommunications company.  Today’s resolution “is genuinely an unexpected surprise”
that will give Vivendi more cash to pursue acquisitions, said
 Conor O’Shea , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris.
“These legal disputes that date back to the Messier era have
almost always been negative.”  The agreement ties up a loose end from the tenure of former
Vivendi CEO  Jean-Marie Messier , whose $77 billion acquisition
spree left the company with legal difficulties in countries
including the U.S. and France.  Knot Untangled  “We have untangled the knot,” Deutsche Telekom Chief
Financial Officer  Timotheus Hoettges  said in a separate
statement. “The absolute legal certainty that is now recognized
by all parties is a clear message regarding PTC’s strategic
development and paves the way for the future.”  Vivendi rose  0.4 percent to 20.58 euros at 11:35 a.m. in
Paris trading. Deutsche Telekom dropped 1.1 percent to 9.77
euros in Frankfurt.  The roots of the Polish dispute go back to 1999, when
Vivendi spent 2 billion euros to buy a stake in PTC through a
joint venture with Elektrim. Deutsche Telekom claimed the deal
violated a shareholders accord it had with Elektrim, a Polish
power and telecommunications group that will exit bankruptcy as
a result of today’s deal.  PTC has been the subject of more than 50 lawsuits and
arbitrations around the world, including arbitration proceedings
in Vienna and a case in the U.S. Vivendi reduced the book value
of its PTC shares to zero in 2006.  “Several legal steps” in Poland must still be completed
for the PTC agreement, probably in the first quarter of next
year, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  