-- Wal-Mart Raising Prices on Toys, Squeezing More Out of Holidays
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-12-15T21:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/wal-mart-raised-prices-on-toys-this-month-squeezing-more-out-of-holidays.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc ., the world’s
largest retailer, raised prices on hundreds of  toys  this month,
squeezing more out of sales during the biggest shopping period
of the year.  Wal-Mart managers in the U.S. received instructions to mark
up an average of 1,800 types of toys per store, according to a
company e-mail dated Nov. 30 obtained by Bloomberg News. The e-
mail didn’t disclose specific increases. The prices were changed
“to better enable your store and the company to have a
successful  financial month ,” according to the e-mail.  The directive from Wal-Mart, which has about 3,800 U.S.
stores, told managers to do the markups as soon as possible. The
move may help Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  fulfill his
October prediction that sales in U.S. stores open at least a
year will be positive this quarter, after six straight drops.  “In previous years  Wal-Mart  has come out and hammered
everyone with unbelievably low toy prices,” said Eric Johnson,
director of the Center for Digital Strategies at the Tuck School
of Business at Dartmouth in Hanover, New Hampshire. “They
stepped away from that this year, and after Thanksgiving their
prices have crept back up.”  The price increases were due to temporary discounts on
products, including toys, that ended Nov. 30, Ravi Jariwala, a
spokesman for Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, said in an
interview. He declined to elaborate on the message’s reference
to a successful financial month.  New Discounts  “Once a rollback ends, the item returns to its original
everyday low price,” he said in an e-mail. Today, the retailer
announced discounts on toys that begin the night of Dec. 17,
with savings such as $5 off Kung Zhu Hamsters and a $9 reduction
on the Paper Jamz AC/DC toy guitar.  Wal-Mart dropped 22 cents to $54.23 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have gained 1.5
percent this year.  Wal-Mart, the biggest toy seller in the U.S., is vying with
 Target Corp. , Toys “R” Us Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. for sales
of playthings, which may advance as much as 3 percent this year,
according to market researcher NPD Group Inc. in Port
Washington, New York. About 40 percent of annual toy sales occur
in November or December, NPD said.  Target has boosted the number of toys in its holiday
catalog by 10 percent, though the total number available is the
same, according to spokeswoman Tara Schlosser.  Toys “R” Us  has
opened 600 temporary “pop-up” stores this year, up from about
80 last year. Today, analyst  Brian Sozzi  of Wall Street
Strategies in New York cut his rating on Wal-Mart stock from
hold to sell, saying the retailer may have lost market share to
rivals such as Minneapolis-based Target.  Toy War  Wal-Mart has nearly doubled the floor space devoted to toys
in most stores this year, according to Jariwala. In about 2,000
stores, the area once devoted to garden products has been
shifted to a merchandise display called “Toyland,” he said.
The retailer has also more than quadrupled the pages in its toy
brochure.  Still, both Target and Toys “R” Us have taken toy sales
from Wal-Mart this season by expanding their inventory and
distribution, according to  Craig Johnson , president of
consultancy Customer Growth Partners in New Canaan, Connecticut.  Wal-Mart has been distracted this year by changes in its
management ranks, such as the departure of chief merchant  John Fleming  and the promotion of  Bill Simon  to U.S. stores chief,
said Customer Growth’s Johnson.  Wal-Mart has also suffered from shortages of hot toys like
 Hasbro Inc.’s  N-Strike Stampede Nerf gun, according to Tuck’s
Johnson.  Retail Sales  “Most of their hot toys are out of stock and the stuff
that is there is not low-priced,” he said in an interview.
“Wal-Mart has been a non-player in toys, and Toys ‘‘R’’ Us has
made a pretty big play this year.”  Industrywide sales at U.S. retailers rose more than
forecast in November as holiday shopping got under way.
Purchases increased 0.8 percent, following a 1.7 percent gain in
October that was larger than previously estimated, according to
Commerce Department figures released Dec. 14.  That projection coincides with a rebound in U.S. consumer
spending this year as the economy began adding jobs. Consumer
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the U.S.
economy, increased at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, the Commerce Department reported last month. That was
the fastest since the final three months of 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 