-- Washington's Gregoire Plans An Additional $400 Million in Spending Cuts
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-12-16T15:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/washington-s-gregoire-proposes-devastating-cuts-in-two-year-budget-plan.html
Governor  Christine Gregoire  of
Washington, who yesterday proposed $4.1 billion in savings and
reductions to state programs in the next two-year budget cycle,
said she wants to cut an additional $400 million before that
period starts.  The request will be in a supplemental budget for the
current fiscal term that she will propose tomorrow, the governor
said yesterday in her Seattle office. The cuts will help fight a
projected $1.1 billion gap in the current spending plan, said
Gregoire, 63, a second-term Democrat.  “I’ve tried to do a budget, as ugly as it is, that really,
I hope, gets us through the next two years and on to recovery,”
Gregoire said in the interview.  The longest recession since the 1930s caused the biggest
nationwide decline in state tax receipts on record,  according to 
the nonpartisan Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in
Washington. States have filled more than $425 billion in funding
gaps since fiscal 2009; the combined imbalance is likely to
reach $140 billion in the next budget year, the center said.  Gregoire said she will call for accelerating the end of
programs that provide health care for the poor and for single
adults temporarily unemployable because of disabilities. The
governor proposed eliminating those efforts yesterday as part of
her 2011-2013 spending plan, which would take effect July 1 and
must contend with a $4.6 billion projected deficit. Ending them
sooner would help close the gap foreseen in the current budget,
she said.  Another Round  Home to  Costco Wholesale Corp ., the largest U.S. warehouse-
club chain, and  Microsoft Corp. , the world’s biggest software
company, Washington is grappling with deficits that have
persisted since the economy plunged into recession in December
2007. In September, Gregoire ordered spending slashed by 6.3
percent in response to a $520 million estimated budget gap. That
projection has since doubled.  Gregoire yesterday proposed a 2011-2013 budget that calls
for about $3 billion in cuts and $1.1 billion in savings. It
would suspend pay raises for teachers and a program that
provides smaller class sizes. Fund transfers, changes to
pensions and use of reserves will also help cover the deficit,
according to a copy of the plan released by her office.  Gregoire proposed drawing almost $290 million from
reserves. She would end subsidized health insurance to 66,000
poor people to save $230 million. She also called for
eliminating funding for parks, reducing state employee pay 3
percent and closing the McNeil Island prison by April.  No Income Tax  Washington’s revenue will decline by $1.19 billion through
June 2013, according to a Nov. 18 report by the state’s  Economic
and Revenue Forecast Council , based in Olympia, the capital.
Projected revenue will decline by $385 million in the budget
cycle ending in June, and $809 million in the next two-year
period, the council said.  In most other states, that revenue would include personal
income taxes; Washington doesn’t have one. On Nov. 2, state
voters rejected a ballot measure to tax earnings above $200,000
for individuals. They also repealed a sales levy on candy, soft
drinks and bottled water, and voted to require a two-thirds
majority in the Legislature to impose such proposals.  The Legislature, controlled by Democrats, met in a special
session Dec. 11 to reduce the deficit for the current budget
cycle by $588 million, mainly through cuts in education,
corrections and health spending.  “We need to keep revenue options on the table,” state
Representative  Brendan Williams , an Olympia Democrat who voted
against the cuts, said in a Dec. 13 interview. “Cuts alone are
not going to balance out this state budget if we’re going to
have a future for our kids.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Seattle at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 