-- Wen Seeks Increased Trade With India as China Pledges Wider Market Access
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2010-12-16T12:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/wen-targets-increased-china-trade-links-with-india-in-meeting-with-singh.html
China and India vowed to boost their
bilateral trade by two-thirds to $100 billion in the next five
years, following talks in New Delhi between prime ministers  Wen Jiabao  and  Manmohan Singh .  The governments of the world’s fastest-growing major
economies agreed to increase investment and bank access in each
other’s economies and “to take measures to promote greater
Indian exports to China with a view to reduce India’s trade
deficit,” said a  joint statement  released after the talks. It
said details of how to ease cross-border banking remain to be
worked out.  Treading lightly on points of tension between the two
countries, the statement said they will “work together to
maintain peace and tranquility” in disputed areas of their
4,200-kilometer (2,600-mile) Himalayan border, where Indian
media reported incursions by Chinese troops earlier this year.
The statement omitted any reference to China’s close ties to
India’s rival, Pakistan, or its position on the conflict over
Kashmir, which have drawn criticism from Indian officials.  Wen is to fly tomorrow to Pakistan for a visit in which he
will address the National Assembly.  In India, Wen today used a speech at a foreign policy think
tank to assure India that his government will not ignore Indian
concerns that its building of a dam on the Brahmaputra River
might reduce the water that flows into India.  United Nations  Regarding India’s campaign for a permanent seat on the
United Nations Security Council, Wen stopped short of the
endorsements delivered by U.S. President  Barack Obama  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in their India visits in the past six
weeks. China “understands and supports India’s aspiration to
play a greater role in the United Nations, including in the
Security Council,” the joint statement said.  The governments repeated earlier commitments to oppose
terrorism “in all its forms” and to cooperate on multilateral
issues such as climate change, trade liberalization, energy and
food security and international financial reforms.  Annual  trade  between the world’s most populous countries
has jumped in a decade from less than $3 billion to an expected
$60 billion this year, a level that should “substantially
increase,” Wen told a business conference in New Delhi
yesterday. The countries “make up nearly a tenth of the world’s
economic output, yet China-India trade accounts for a mere 0.2
percent of the global total,” he said.  During his visit, Chinese companies signed $16 billion of
deals with Indian counterparts. Commerce Ministry official Liang
Wentao told reporters in Beijing on Dec. 13 the agreements will
include an $8.3 billion sale of coal-fired power generators by
 Shanghai Electric Group Co.  to Reliance Power Ltd.  Indian Exports  India’s  ICICI Bank Ltd.  finalized a $1 billion financing
agreement with Industrial & Commercial Bank of China and
Shanghai Electric Group Co. Reliance Communications Ltd. will
borrow $2 billion from China Development Bank Corp.  Wen said his government will respond to India’s request
that China widen access to its markets for Indian goods --
notably pharmaceuticals, information technology and agricultural
products -- to reduce a trade deficit that reached $18 billion
as of November, according to Chinese figures.  Wen yesterday dismissed the idea of relations as a
“rivalry between the dragon and the elephant” and said “there
is enough space in the world for the development of both.  He called for development of joint tourism, finance and
investment, saying each area is under-developed for the size of
the two economies. India’s gross domestic product climbed 8.9
percent for a second straight quarter in July to September,
while China’s economy grew at a  9.6 percent annual pace  in the
same period.  ‘Strategic Consensus’  While India and China “have received more foreign direct
investment than any other country,” investment between them
“falls short of $700 million,” Wen said. He called for easier
procedures for moving capital and people between the countries
to create “more favorable conditions for mutual investment.”  The Chinese leader began today with a ceremonial welcome at
the presidential palace in central Delhi where he said he hoped
to use his trip to deepen relations between the people of both
countries and achieve an “important strategic consensus” with
Indian leaders.  Wen’s visit, six weeks after a similar trip by Obama and
days before the arrival of Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ,
illustrates the rivalry to court India, said  Bates Gill ,
director of the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute.  Despite their regional disputes, “the interest at least in
the near-to-medium term for the two countries is to create a
constructive context in their relationship to try to settle
differences,” Gill said in a Dec. 8 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  