-- Wen Shows Delhi Students His Calligraphy Skills as India Masters Mandarin
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 2010-12-16T11:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/wen-shows-off-his-calligraphy-skills-as-india-s-students-master-mandarin.html
Dipping a brush in black ink before
tracing Chinese characters on white paper, Premier  Wen Jiabao 
used the ancient art of calligraphy to send a message of modern
friendship to students in India’s capital.  After a speech to business leaders in which he detailed $16
billion of corporate deals between the Asian giants, Wen
yesterday visited Delhi’s  Tagore International School  where he
spent 50 minutes discussing the two countries’ relationship and
their economic rise. “Friendship between China and India,” he
wrote in foot-high figures before signing his name.  “He was very down to earth,” said Vatsala Pant, 16, one
of 27 students to meet Wen at the school, which had been
specially decorated with Chinese dragons, red ribbons and the
flags of India and China. “The interaction was very personal.”  Wen’s school visit comes at a time when Indian interest in
learning Mandarin is growing as it seeks closer ties with the
world’s fastest growing economy. All state secondary school
pupils will have the option of learning the language from next
year, reflecting the government’s effort to boost relations
between the world’s two most populous nations.  Wen donated 1,000 books, DVDs and CDs as Mandarin teaching
material to the school named after the Indian novelist, poet and
artist  Rabindranath Tagore . The Chinese leader shook hands with
each of the children and posed for photographs.  “He said Chinese people respect India a lot because our
economy has grown in such a short period of time,” said Tushar
Rawal, 17, the school’s head boy.  Mandarin Lessons  In the world of business, India has long benefited from its
large English-speaking population. As China’s economy surges,
the government is encouraging its population to learn Mandarin,
spoken by about 1 billion people, according to the Central
Intelligence Agency’s World Factbook.  Annual bilateral trade between India and China is expected
to reach $60 billion this year, and the two countries vowed
today to raise it to $100 billion by 2015. Wen said yesterday he
would act to reduce his country’s $18 billion bilateral surplus.  India’s  Central Board of Secondary Education  said this
month Chinese classes will be on the curriculum for students
aged 12 and above from April. Learning Mandarin has previously
only been an option for college students or those at specialized
schools such as Tagore International.  For the last two years, students at the school in Delhi’s
Vasant Vihar area have taken part in a cultural exchange with
the Jinyuan Senior High School in Shanghai. Each Thursday, the
Indian students give instruction in yoga via videoconferencing;
on Fridays the Chinese pupils give calligraphy lessons.  Teacher Quest  “For my students who may end up in any field later in life,
learning Mandarin will be an asset,” said Madhulika Sen, the
school’s principal. “It will give them an edge. Any language
you can learn is an asset, but particularly Mandarin because
China is an emerging superpower.”  The biggest challenge for India to meet its goal of
increasing Mandarin speakers will be finding qualified teachers,
according to  Varaprasad Sekhar , associate professor in Chinese
studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi.  “It is going to be an enormous challenge, no doubt,” said
Sekhar, who teaches courses on Chinese history and was a fellow
at Peking University in Beijing in 2004. “There are not many
Mandarin speakers in India and many end up working at
multinational companies. Most don’t go into teaching.”  The visit to the school marked the official end of Wen’s
first day in India since 2005. Today he held talks with Indian
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  after a ceremonial welcome at the
presidential palace.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Macaskill  in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  