-- Whole Milk Powder Auction Prices Rise to Three-Month High, Fonterra Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-12-15T19:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/whole-milk-powder-auction-prices-rise-to-three-month-high-fonterra-says.html
Whole milk powder auction prices
rose to a three month high, according to  Fonterra Cooperative
Group Ltd.,  the world’s largest dairy exporter.  Powder for February delivery gained 3.2 percent from two
weeks earlier, according to a trade-weighted price index
calculated by the company after its latest  GlobalDairyTrade 
auction. The average price rose to $3,597 a ton, the highest for
the spot contract since Sept. 15.  Prices are rising as New Zealand declared medium-level
droughts in Northland and in the Waikato province, which is the
nation’s biggest milk-producing region. Output from North Island
farms is 4.7 percent lower than a year earlier, the Dominion
Post newspaper reported today, citing a Fonterra spokesman.  Fonterra, which accounts for about 40 percent of the global
trade in butter, milk powder and cheese, last week raised its
forecast payment to farmers by 4.5 percent citing rising
international prices.  Fonterra sells whole and skim milk powder and dried milk
fat at its fortnightly Internet-based auctions. It offers one-
month  contract s with delivery starting two months after the
sale, and two three-month contracts with delivery starting three
and six months later.  Whole milk powder for delivery from March through May
increased 1.9 percent, Fonterra said. Powder for shipment from
June through August increased 2.1 percent. Across all contracts
prices gained 2.6 percent.  The winning first-contract price for regular New Zealand
whole milk powder, which is the reference point for NZX Ltd.’s
futures contract, rose to $3,580. The December futures contract
settled yesterday at $3,605.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  