-- Why the Left Really Hates Tax Cuts for the Rich: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-12-15T02:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/why-the-left-hates-tax-cuts-for-the-wealthy-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
“Odious” is how senior adviser
 David Axelrod  described President  Barack Obama ’s acquiescence to
extending tax cuts for the rich as part of a deal struck with
congressional Republicans.  Just think about that for a moment. In order to secure the
GOP’s support for an extension of  unemployment benefits  and a
one-year reduction in the employee-paid portion of the payroll
tax, the administration had to hold its nose, swallow its pride
and exhibit other metaphorical manifestations to demonstrate its
disgust at the thought of letting the rich keep more of their
own money.  “I respect people who are unhappy,” Axelrod said in an
interview with  Christiane Amanpour  on ABC’s “This Week” on
Sunday. “We share their view on the upper-income tax cuts, on
the estate tax. That was a part of the deal, odious though it
may be, in order to accept, in order to get, all the good things
that come along with. That’s the nature of compromise.”  Certain household chores -- cleaning the toilet, for
example -- are odious. Filling out health insurance forms is
another repugnant task. Spending hours on the phone with HP tech
support in India ranks high on the odious list.  But being allowed to keep money you earned? What is it
about tax cuts for the wealthy that so galls the Left?  I can’t answer definitely because I don’t share the
antipathy. My hunch is that folks who abhor tax cuts for the
rich see the economic pie as a fixed quantity. Your gain is my
loss. A tax cut, exemption, credit or deduction for you means
nothing for me. It’s a zero sum game, except it isn’t.  Zero Sum Game  Over the last 60 years, federal government  receipts  have
averaged 18 percent of gross domestic product. Whether the top
 marginal income tax rate  was 92 percent, as it was during the
1950s, or 28 percent, as it was for a short spell in the late
1980s, the government can’t manage to snag a bigger share of the
pie.  Far better to find a recipe to bake a bigger pie so that
government’s 18 percent translates to more dollars.  Amanpour didn’t ask Axelrod what he would say if the pie
doubled but the share of income that goes to the rich, poor and
middle class stayed the same.  I’m not sure what he’d say on TV, but I bet I know what he
thinks: not fair. Redistributing income -- reapportioning the
pie slices so the thin slivers are thicker -- is the real goal.  Genteel Theft  That’s easier said than done. Sure, the government could
confiscate wealth outright, the way Russia seized Yukos Oil Co.,
charged former CEO  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  with tax evasion and
fraud and threw him in jail. Doing it through the tax code is so
much more genteel.  Try as it might, the U.S. government hasn’t been able to
increase its 18 percent share of GDP despite wide variations in
the top tax rate. The rich have tax lawyers to help them shield
their income and avoid taxes.  Besides, the focus on increased income inequality, with its
potential to create social unrest, ignores mobility up and down
the income ladder. Almost 60 percent of taxpayers were in a
different quintile in 2007 than they were in 1999, according to
a June 2010  report  by  Robert Carroll , a senior fellow at
Washington’s Tax Foundation. Forty percent of households in the
top quintile moved down, while 60 percent of those in the bottom
quintile moved up.  While the share of income earned by the top 1 percent more
than doubled between 1980 and 2007, that kind of distributional
analysis -- comparing snapshots of the population at different
points in time -- fails to capture mobility among groups,
Carroll says. His study tracked 62,412 tax returns that were
filed in all nine years.  Mobile Population  Millionaires, as it turns out, are here today, gone
tomorrow, largely the result of the variability of capital gains
realizations, Carroll finds. Politicians should keep this in
mind the next time they contemplate a surtax on the wealthy, the
only group against which it’s politically correct to
discriminate.  Maybe my fixed-pie theory is incorrect and it’s old-
fashioned jealousy that keeps the Left allied against the
wealthy.  Unlikely. Class warfare has never been a big seller in the
U.S. for the simple reason that most Americans aspire to being
rich or achieving some degree of financial security.  The door is always open. And many Americans capitalize on
the opportunity and walk through it.  On the other hand, millionaires may fall through a trap
door and find themselves on a lower income scale. Nothing odious
about that, as far as Axelrod’s concerned.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  