-- World Bank Raises Record $49.3 Billion in Donor Funds for Poorest Nations
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2010-12-15T15:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/world-bank-raises-record-49-3-billion-in-donor-funds-for-poorest-nations.html
The World Bank’s fund for helping
the poorest countries will receive $49.3 billion in funding from
donor nations and other sources, the lender said today.  Funding over three years for the  International Development
Association , the unit that funds projects in 79 low-income
countries including Haiti and Sub-Saharan African nations, will
increase 18 percent compared to the total for the previous three
years, the Washington-based lender said in a statement after a
conference in Brussels. The new funds cover the period from July
2011 to June 2014, the  World Bank  said.  “This a very significant accomplishment at a time of tough
budget cuts in many donor countries,” World Bank President
 Robert Zoellick  said, speaking from Washington in a telephone
conference with reporters before leaving for a visit to Zambia
and Mali. “Many have stretched at a time of some economic pain
at home.”  The bank declined to identify how much of the funding is
coming from donor nations as compared to other sources, such as
pre-payments and existing accounts. In the previous $41.6
billion IDA funding round in 2007, donor countries pledged $25.1
billion and the remaining $16.5 billion came from existing
accounts and previous donations.  The World Bank said 51 countries contributed in this round
of IDA funding, up from 45 countries in the previous round. The
bank also pledged about $3 billion in resources from its other
units, Zoellick said.  Top 20  The top 20 donors, as a group, increased their pledges,
Zoellick said. In general, countries had smaller increases than
they have had in the past, and some countries reduced their
contribution while others gave funds for the first time, he
said.  Zoellick declined to say who the largest donor was or how
much individual countries contributed. The U.K. and the U.S.
have been the largest contributors to the fund in past donation
rounds.  Big donors should demand more public information from the
World Bank about how it spends and keeps track of its funds,
said Oxfam, a charity that works to alleviate poverty. “Donors
must use this opportunity to flex their muscles and insist that
the Bank show how and where its loans and grants make a
difference to extreme poverty,” said Oxfam spokesperson
 Elizabeth Stuart .  The replenishment talks took place as most developed
economies face increased scrutiny from investors. Europe is
trying to contain a debt crisis that engulfed Greece and Ireland
this year and Group of 20 nations have pledged to halve deficits
by 2013.  “Every single major shareholder of IDA is facing a fiscal
crunch,” said Todd Moss, senior fellow at the Center for Global
Development in Washington, in an interview ahead of the funding
conference. He said IDA is the “most important” financial
institution for poor countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net 
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  