-- World Cup Pushing Mantega to Strengthen Local Bond Market: Brazil Credit
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 2010-12-15T23:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/world-cup-pushing-mantega-to-strengthen-local-bond-market-brazil-credit.html
Brazil’s local corporate bond market
is failing to provide the financing needed to help pay for  955
billion reais  ($562 billion) of infrastructure projects,
prompting the government to step up reforms to expand credit.  Companies in Latin America’s biggest economy raised 41
billion reais this year in the local bond market, a 48 percent
increase from all of 2009, according to the Brazilian capital
markets association known as Anbima. Issuance is lagging behind
Russia’s $27 billion and China’s $163 billion. Only India, at
$18 billion, has had less corporate debt issuance among the
biggest developing economies, or BRICs.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who will retain his post
under President-elect  Dilma Rousseff , unveiled today measures to
boost long-term financing. The government plans to cut funding
for its state development bank by 50 percent next year to wean
companies off subsidized loans and reduce the world’s second-
highest inflation-adjusted interest rates. Brazil is boosting
infrastructure spending as it prepares to host the World Cup in
2014 and Olympics in 2016.  “Brazil needs huge infrastructure investments, and the
government has been signaling a reduction of state financing,”
said Lauro Augusto Campos, superintendent of credit analysis for
SulAmerica Investimentos in Sao Paulo, which manages $10 billion
of assets. “There could be a migration towards capital markets,
incentivizing capital markets through debentures.”  ‘New Phase’  Investors purchasing long-term bonds linked to domestic
infrastructure investments with a maturity of at least four
years will be exempt from paying income tax on earnings from the
securities, Mantega said in a presentation to reporters in
Brasilia. BNDES, as the state development bank is known, will be
allowed to sell long-term bonds, Mantega said.  Brazil is entering a “new phase” of long-term lending, he
said.  Rousseff’s government will cut the loans it provides to
BNDES, as the state development bank is known, from 104.7
billion reais in 2010, Mantega said Nov. 30. Lending by the
bank, which provides  subsidized credit  for long-term projects,
is helping push inflation to 5.63 percent, the highest since
February 2009.  BNDES, based in Rio de Janeiro, granted 171 billion reais
of new loans in the 12 months through October, a 33 percent jump
over the same year-ago period, according to the bank’s  website .
BNDES more than doubled lending to Brazilian companies to 137.4
billion reais last year, exceeding the $72.2 billion lent
globally by the World Bank in the fiscal year ended in June.  Capital Market  Yields on interest-rate futures indicate traders are
betting the central bank will raise the benchmark rate by 25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 11 percent in
January. Brazil’s inflation-adjusted rates are second only to
Croatia among 46 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  The government is betting the new measures and reduction in
BNDES funding will boost the country’s local capital market,
SulAmerica’s Campos said.  A new rule that allowed companies to sell debt more quickly
through private sales rather than public offerings helped spark
the increase in debentures this year. Those offerings made up 54
percent of private credit sales in 2010, compared with 46
percent through November of last year, according to Sao Paulo-
based Anbima. The average maturity on local corporate bonds rose
to about five years from four years in 2010, Anbima data show.  ‘Huge Improvement’  “This is a huge improvement that you see from 2009,” said
 Joao de Biase , head of debt capital markets at Itau Unibanco
Holding SA, Brazil’s  biggest bank  by market value. “The whole
spectrum of fixed-income instruments is going to increase from
year to year, or at least in the next five years,” he said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  The government needs to find ways to increase trading in
the local market, which is currently dominated by a small group
of pension funds, Biase said.  Even with the new measures, companies will still need to
borrow from the state development bank, said  Huang Kuo Seen , a
hedge fund manager at Grau Gestao de ativos, which manages 250
million reais in Sao Paulo.  The measures “will complement,” Seen said in a telephone
interview. “Replacing is difficult. It’s easier when a company
is already established, with an established long-term project.
The market will continue needing BNDES.”  Brazilian companies sold a record $38.7 billion of bonds
overseas this year, up 74 percent from 2009, as near-zero
interest rates in the U.S. and Europe sparked demand for higher-
yielding emerging-market assets.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 9 basis points to 175
at 6:27 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose 6 basis points to 116, according to CMA prices.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 rose 4 basis points to 11.87 percent.  The real fell 0.7 percent to 1.7095 per U.S. dollar.  The government’s 955 billion reais infrastructure spending
plan will boost investment in urban transport, sewage,
homebuilding and electricity and water distribution.  “There will come a moment where banks, together with BNDES,
won’t be able to provide 100 percent of the debt needed for
these new infrastructure projects in Brazil,” Itau’s Biase
said. “In such a moment, you need to bring new money to these
projects.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net 
 Felipe Frisch  in São Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  