-- Year-End Cash `Scramble' Drives Rates to 13-Month High: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-12-15T20:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/year-end-cash-scramble-drives-rates-to-13-month-high-argentina-credit.html
Interest rates  on Argentine deposits
are climbing to the highest level in 13 months as banks seek to
fulfill a year-end demand for cash that monetary authorities are
trying to meet by printing pesos.  The so-called badlar rate that banks pay on deposits of
more than 1 million pesos ($252,000) held for 30 to 35 days rose
to 11.25 percent on Dec. 10, the highest level  since  Nov. 3,
2009, and up from a two-year low of 8.81 percent in May. The
badlar, which is used as a benchmark for Argentine corporate
bond yields, compares with the 0.26 percent one-month London
interbank offered rate, or  Libor , in U.S. dollars.  The fastest economic expansion since 2005 is bolstering
demand for cash that companies need to pay mandatory December
bonuses and that vacationers use for summer travel in the
Southern Hemisphere. Banco de la Ciudad de Buenos Aires
President  Federico Sturzenegger  said in October that bills were
in short supply.  “There is a scramble for pesos by the banks, for the
physical bills,”  Boris Segura , a Latin America economist with
Nomura Securities International Inc., said in an interview from
New York. “That is pushing up the badlar.”  The nation’s cash in circulation and in checking and
savings accounts, as measured by the  M2 monetary gauge , rose 2
percent on the week to 242.1 billion pesos on Dec. 3, according
to the most recent central bank data. The central bank lifted
its year-end M2 target to 254.7 billion pesos in August after
surpassing its original goal.  Rate Outlook  The badlar rate may climb as high as 15 percent by the end
of this year before falling to 11 percent by March, said  Mariano Kruskevich , an analyst at SBS Sociedad de Bolsa SA, a brokerage
in Buenos Aires.  “The movement we’re seeing today with the badlar
corresponds to year-end seasonality,” he said.  A rising badlar rate bolsters government peso bonds due in
2014 and 2015 that are linked to the bank rate, SBS said in a
note yesterday. The 2014 bonds yielded 15.7 percent today,
according to pricing from MBA Lazard.  The badlar has become the preferred reference for floating-
rate corporate debt sold in the past two years, replacing the
reference stabilization coefficient, or CER, which is linked to
the official consumer price index, Kruskevich said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Inflation Data  Economists and politicians including Vice President  Julio Cobos  have questioned the government’s inflation reports since
2007, when then-President  Nestor Kirchner  began changing
personnel at the national statistics institute. Kirchner died in
October.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner , the former
president’s widow, brought in officials from the International
Monetary Fund last week to offer advice on creating a new
national inflation index.  The government reported today annual inflation of 11
percent in November, less than half the 25 percent estimate from
Nomura, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the government’s
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 15 basis points, or
0.15 percentage point, to 513 at 3:41 p.m. New York time,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Credit Default Swaps  The cost of insuring Argentine bonds against default for
five years fell 4 basis points to 631 yesterday, according to
CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to comply with debt
agreements.  The peso slid 0.2 percent to 3.9765 per dollar today. The
badlar rate dropped to 11 percent on Dec. 13. The overnight loan
rate between banks rose today to 10.6 percent, the highest level
since Nov. 1. The so-called call rate is up from 10.1 percent at
the end of last week.  Warrants linked to economic growth slid 0.27 cent to 13.6
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Argentina’s
economy may expand as much as 9 percent this year, the fastest
pace since 2005, according to the central bank.  The central bank’s badlar rate will likely decline in
January before rising to 12 percent by the end of 2011, said
Nomura’s Segura.  “Things should normalize after the holidays,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  