-- Yield Gap Hits 14-Month High as HDFC Pays Most in Two Years: India Credit
-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 2010-12-16T07:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/yield-gap-hits-14-month-high-as-hdfc-costs-jump-india-credit.html
Investors are demanding the biggest
 yield premium  in 14 months to hold Indian corporate debt instead
of government bonds as a worsening cash crunch outweighs record
credit-rating upgrades.  The amount top-rated companies must pay above government
yields to borrow rupees for three years rose 63 basis points
 this quarter  to 141 on Dec. 7, the highest level since October
2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The similar spread in
 China  widened 5 basis points to 112.  Housing Development Finance
Corp. , India’s largest mortgage lender, sold three-year debt
last week at 9.25 percent, the most in two years.  SBI Funds Management Pvt. and the Indian unit of Newark,
New Jersey-based Prudential Financial Inc. plan to buy
government bonds instead of corporate securities after record
share sales drained cash and pushed money-market rates to the
highest among major Asian economies. The central bank is
boosting purchases of sovereign notes to help ease the funds
shortage, increasing the appeal of sovereign debt.  “The entire corporate yield curve has shifted higher,”
 Navneet Munot , who oversees $8.5 billion as chief investment
officer at Mumbai-based SBI Funds, a unit of the nation’s
biggest lender, said in a Dec. 14 interview. “The best place to
be in the debt market right now is government bonds as the
central bank lines up purchases.”  Debt Sales Slow  Central bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said Dec. 9 he is
“deeply conscious” of the cash shortfall in the banking system.
The RBI bought 117.1 billion rupees ($2.6 billion) of sovereign
bonds yesterday, following 101 billion rupees last week.
Subbarao today kept benchmark interest rates unchanged after six
increases this year.  Rupee debt sales by companies are slowing as borrowing
costs climb. Indian firms raised 234 billion rupees issuing
local-currency bonds since Oct. 1, compared with an average 518
billion rupees during the previous three quarters, Bloomberg
data show.  Issuance is still climbing toward a record year, up 22
percent from 2009 to 1.8 trillion rupees. Local-currency
borrowings almost doubled to 20.7 billion real ($12.2 billion)
in Brazil, while in Russia they exceeded last year’s amount by 4
percent.  Infrastructure Development Finance Co. , the Indian lender
to power and road projects, sold securities maturing in 2020 at
8.89 percent this month, compared with 8 percent on similar-
maturity notes in September, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
 Power Finance Corp. , a state-owned lender to Indian utilities,
raised 10-year funds at a 9.05 percent coupon this month, up
from 8.78 percent in November.  Credit Ratings  An unprecedented improvement in debt ratings for Indian
companies failed to halt the second quarterly increase in three-
year corporate bond spreads.  Crisil Ltd., the Indian unit of Standard & Poor’s, raised
rankings of 253 local borrowers in the six months ended Sept. 30,
the most since it started business in 1987, the company said on
Oct. 21. Crisil increased the rating of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.,
India’s largest maker of sports-utility vehicles, to AA+ from AA
on Nov. 29.  Credit-default swaps on State Bank of India have slid 23
basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, this month to 156,
according to data provider CMA. The swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Rates on short-term corporate debt rose above long-term
rates this month as equity offerings by companies in 2010
drained 1.14 trillion rupees from the financial system.  ‘Quite Tight’  “Longer-term corporate bond spreads still remain quite
tight,”  Dhawal Dalal , head of fixed-income investments in
Mumbai at DSP Blackrock Investment Managers Pvt. said in a Dec.
14 interview. They’re “less affected by the cash crunch than
the shorter maturities,” he said.  Three-year rates jumped  133 basis points  this year to 8.96
percent while five-year  debt costs  climbed 68 points to 8.94
percent. Local lenders borrowed an average 817 billion rupees a
day from the  Reserve Bank of India  this quarter, up from 239
billion rupees the previous three months, to meet cash shortages,
central bank data show.  Inverted Curve  “The interest-rate curve has gotten inverted,” said Dalal
at DSP Blackrock, an Indian venture of the world’s biggest asset
manager that oversees the equivalent of $5.2 billion.
“Liquidity may improve in the coming months, helped by the
RBI’s bond purchases.”  Three-month  borrowing costs  for the nation’s top-rated
companies more than doubled to 9.63 percent this year, from 4.25
percent at the end of 2009, as policy makers boosted benchmark
interest rates to curb  inflation  that has averaged 9.5 percent.
Three-month commercial paper rates in the U.S. are  0.35 percent ,
while borrowers in China are paying 3.46 percent.  Indian companies are also delaying overseas bond sales as
 benchmark  dollar borrowing costs surged to a four-month high of
5.22 percent this week, according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.
Rural Electrification Corp., the state-controlled lender to
power projects, put off a $500 million sale until January on
“adverse market conditions,” Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a Dec. 3 interview.  Overseas investment inflows into Indian debt have slowed as
the yield advantage narrowed. Foreign  holdings  of rupee
denominated corporate and government bonds have declined $141
million since Sept. 30, after climbing in each of the previous
six quarters, according to the  Securities and Exchange Board of
India .  Yield Difference  The yield  difference  between Treasuries and Indian
government bonds due in 2020 has shrunk to 461 basis points from
a decade-high 567 reached Oct. 20. The  yield  on 10-year U.S.
federal notes touched a seven-month high of 3.5 percent this
week. The yield on India’s 7.8 percent note due in 2020 has
retreated 18 basis points from a 26-month high of 8.22 percent
reached on Dec. 6. It was at 8.04 percent today.  India’s three-year government bond yield of 7.65 percent is
still the highest among the major emerging economies except
Brazil, where similar-maturity notes pay 12.59 percent.
Comparable securities offer 3.3 percent in China and 7.14
percent in Russia. The rupee strengthened 1.4 percent this month,
the second-best performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded
currencies excluding the yen, to 45.35 per dollar.  “The debt market is getting some sense of comfort from the
RBI’s actions to ease the pressure on liquidity,”  Mahendra Jajoo , head of fixed-income investments in Mumbai at Pramerica
Asset Managers Pvt., the local unit of Prudential Financial,
said in a Dec. 14 interview. “I would be a buyer of government
securities as corporate bonds wouldn’t benefit as much.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  