-- Yuan Forwards Rated Asia's Best 2011 Bet at Goldman, Nomura: China Credit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-12-16T07:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-15/yuan-forwards-rated-asia-s-best-2011-bet-at-goldman-nomura-china-credit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Nomura
Holdings Inc. say yuan forwards are the best way to make money
in Asia’s foreign-exchange market in 2011.  Goldman Sachs, Wall Street’s most profitable firm, advises
buying two-year non-deliverable contracts, saying the yuan is
the most likely of the region’s currencies to advance if
Europe’s debt crisis spurs demand for dollars. Nomura, Japan’s
biggest investment bank, favors three-month forwards, predicting
China will allow appreciation to accelerate before President  Hu Jintao  visits Washington next month. Deutsche Bank AG also
includes bets on yuan gains among its top regional trades.  A stronger yuan would help cool the fastest inflation in
two years and reduce the likelihood of trade sanctions in the
U.S., where China faces accusations of using an undervalued
exchange rate to benefit exporters. The yuan will be the top
performer among the so-called BRIC nations’ currencies in the
coming year, according to analyst surveys by Bloomberg.  “The best risk-reward trade is in China because that is
where we are more likely to see appreciation, even if the euro
is hit by the sovereign debt crisis,” said  Michael Buchanan ,
chief Asia-Pacific economist at Goldman Sachs in Hong Kong.
“Our base line is appreciation for every currency in Asia, but
any more problems in the European periphery will make it harder
for Asian currencies to gain.”  Projected Gains  Nine of Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen
weakened against the dollar in the past month as Ireland joined
Greece in seeking financial aid from the European Union, and the
cost of insuring bonds issued by Portugal, Spain and Italy
against losses climbed to records. The yuan slid 0.4 percent to
6.6616 versus the greenback, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. South Korea’s won lost the most, sliding 2 percent.  Elsewhere in China’s credit markets, the 12-month interest-
rate  swap , the fixed cost needed to receive the floating seven-
day repurchase  rate , slid one basis point today to 3.13 percent
in Shanghai as of 3:08 p.m. local time. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The yield on the 3.29 percent government bond due in
September 2020 fell three basis points to 3.84 percent, the
lowest level in six weeks, National Interbank Funding Center
data show.  China’s finance ministry sold 30.78 billion yuan ($4.2
billion) of 10-year bonds yesterday at a lower-than-forecast
yield on demand from banks and insurers. The average yield was
3.77 percent, three basis points lower than the 3.80 percent
median estimate of 17 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Bids totaled 64.88 billion yuan, 2.1 times the amount sold.  Money Markets  The seven-day repurchase  rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, fell 31 basis points to 3.27 percent, according
to the National Interbank Funding Center in Shanghai. The rate
yesterday climbed 29 basis points to 3.58 percent as banks
prepared to set aside extra cash to meet regulatory rules. That
was the highest rate since Oct. 7, 2008.  China’s currency will strengthen 6.1 percent to 6.28 by the
end of 2011, based on the median estimate of 20 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s almost triple the 2.1 percent gain
projected by 12-month non-deliverable forwards. Analysts predict
Brazil’s real will weaken 1.5 percent, Russia’s ruble will
appreciate 1.9 percent and India’s rupee will rise 4.8 percent.  Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  discussed currencies with
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  two days ago in
Washington, having last week been urged in a letter sent by U.S.
senators to allow the yuan “to appreciate meaningfully” before
Hu’s visit next month.  U.S. Legislation  President  Barack Obama  said Nov. 12 that the yuan was
“undervalued” and he expects “progress on this issue,” while
the U.S. House of Representatives has passed legislation that
would make it easier for American companies to petition for
higher duties on Chinese imports.  “The main appreciation will come through in the first
quarter, with the January meeting between Hu and Obama,” said
 Craig Chan , an Asia foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura in
Singapore.  The three-month non-deliverable forwards he recommends
buying weakened 0.1 percent today to 6.6368, reflecting bets the
yuan will strengthen 0.4 percent from the spot rate in Shanghai.
He predicted the currency will gain 2.5 percent to 6.50 by the
end of March and 7.1 percent to 6.22 by end-2011.  Goldman Sachs’s Buchanan forecast a 5.9 percent advance to
6.29 per dollar by the end of next year, and a further 7 percent
gain in 2012. The two-year non-deliverable forwards he favors
are projecting 4.4 percent appreciation for the next two years.  Peg Ended  Forwards are agreements to buy and sell assets at current
prices for delivery at a future specified time and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  China allowed the yuan to strengthen 21 percent over three
years after a currency peg ended in July 2005, before halting
appreciation for almost two years to help exporters weather the
global financial crisis. Since the People’s Bank of China
pledged to allow greater exchange-rate “flexibility” in June,
the yuan has risen 2.5 percent against the dollar.  Buying yuan forwards won’t necessarily prove profitable
once interest costs are factored in, according to UBS AG,
Switzerland’s biggest bank.  “The mistake that people tend to make with the yuan is
that they think it is a one-way trade and they go long yuan and
wait,” said  Nizam Idris , a currency strategist at UBS in
Singapore. An investor betting this way on appreciation in the
forwards market in the past two years would have lost money
because the cost of the trade outweighed gains, he said.  Hong Kong Forwards  Idris said he plans to rein in his prediction for the yuan
to climb 7.5 percent to 6.20 per dollar next year, estimating
that gains of closer to 5 percent are more likely.  Deutsche Bank, which is the world’s biggest currency trader
according to Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc, forecast a
5.7 percent gain to 6.30 by the end of next year. It recommends
buying the yuan using 12-month deliverable contracts in Hong
Kong’s offshore market to profit as China allows faster
appreciation to help tame inflation, which hit a 28-month high
of 5.1 percent in November.  “Offshore yuan deliverable forwards are currently the
cheapest way to access the yuan,” said  Mirza Baig , a currency
strategist at Deutsche Bank in Singapore. “We suggest buying
yuan versus a basket against the dollar, euro and yen.”  Offshore yuan climbed 0.06 percent in Hong Kong today to
6.6500 per dollar. Twelve-month deliverable forwards in the city
were steady at 6.5785, projecting 1.1 percent appreciation.  China’s leaders pledged at an annual conference this month
to give greater priority to stabilizing prices in 2011 and
better manage liquidity. The central bank raised borrowing costs
in October for the first time since 2007 and last week increased
banks’ reserve-ratio requirements for the sixth time this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  in Singapore at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  