-- China May Force State-Controlled Banks to Exit Underperforming Businesses
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-13T03:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-12/china-may-force-state-controlled-banks-to-exit-underperforming-businesses.html

          
          
             China may force state-controlled
lenders to exit underperforming businesses, as the banking
regulator moves to limit financial risks following last year’s
surge in credit.  
 The China Banking Regulatory Commissions told the nation’s
five biggest lenders to inspect performance at non-bank units
set up over the past few years, Vice Chairman Jiang Dingzhi said
at a forum in Beijing today.  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and China
Construction Bank Corp. are among banks that expanded into asset
management, insurance and leasing in past years to reduce their
reliance on income from lending. They may be forced to exit such
businesses should their units trail rivals or their own core
banking operations in performance, Jiang said.  
 The Chinese government is stepping up scrutiny of banks to
prevent last year’s $1.4 trillion credit boom from triggering a
financial meltdown. Chief banking regulator Liu Mingkang said
over the weekend that financial regulations will go “back to
the basics,” as he told banks to report on their risk exposure
to borrowers including local-government entities by June 30.  
 China’s four largest publicly traded banks may face a
capital shortfall of 480 billion yuan ($70 billion) over the
next five years should they have to meet the minimum regulatory
requirement for balance-sheet strength, ICBC President Yang
Kaisheng wrote in an article published today in the 21st Century
Business Herald.  
 State-owned banks are required to maintain a capital
adequacy ratio of 11.5 percent.  
 Bad-Loan Coverage  
 ICBC, the world’s largest bank by market value, fell 0.8
percent today in Hong Kong trading at 11:44 a.m. Construction
Bank shares advanced 0.4 percent.  
 Chinese banks should take advantage of their relatively
high profitability to boost provisions against soured debts,
Jiang said. Their average bad-loan coverage ratio is above 150
percent, the regulatory minimum, he added. Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd., which is planning what may be the world’s largest
initial public offering, hasn’t gotten approval from the bank
regulator to list, Jiang said in an interview after his speech.  
 The nation’s third-largest bank by assets this month
invited more than 20 banks to bid for work helping arrange its
share sale in China and Hong Kong, four people with knowledge of
the matter said on April 7.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dingmin Zhang in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        