-- Russia's VTB, Polyus Gold Follow Deripaska to Asia in Search of Investors
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2010-04-13T13:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-12/russia-s-vtb-polyus-gold-follow-deripaska-to-asia-in-search-of-investors.html

          
          
             Russian companies including VTB
Group and OAO Polyus Gold are following Oleg Deripaska to Asia
in search of cash, after the billionaire’s aluminum maker United
Co. Rusal became the country’s first to list in Hong Kong.  
 Warming political ties between Russia and China, a 142
percent rally in Moscow’s Micex stock index since the start of
last year and Rusal’s $2.24 billion share sale in January have
combined to “pique interest” in Russia, said Chris Weafer,
chief strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow.  
 Polyus Chief Executive Officer Evgeny Ivanov is among the
executives and bankers in Hong Kong this week making the Russia
case to investors, some of whom have seen holdings in Rusal drop
13 percent since the IPO. The opportunity to invest in Russia,
the world’s largest energy supplier, may lure funds from Japan,
Korea and China, Credit Agricole Asset Management said.  
 “It’s a case of building familiarity,” Michael Hanson-
Lawson, chief executive officer of East Capital Asia Ltd., said
in Hong Kong. “Corporate governance is one issue that comes up
the most” as a concern from Asian investors, he said.  
 Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin wants to reduce
dependence on oil and gas exports to the European Union, its
largest trading partner. China, the biggest energy consumer
after the U.S., last year secured 20 years of oil flows by
lending $25 billion to state-run producer OAO Rosneft and
pipeline operator OAO Transneft.  
 ‘Resource Hungry’  
 “Some of the larger investors from resource-hungry nations
like Japan, Korea and China would like to invest in Russian
companies, particularly in the energy sector,” said Winson
Fong, a Hong Kong-based fund manager with Credit Agricole Asset
Management.  
 Polyus, Russia’s largest gold producer, is gauging interest
for its shares during meetings with Asia’s biggest funds this
week and may list in Hong Kong if there’s demand, Ivanov said
today in an interview on the sidelines of the Russia Capital
Raising Summit in Hong Kong.  
 “With Hong Kong as the international hub in Asia, it’s
pretty much the only real option,” Ivanov said. The company may
offer a 5.7 percent stake, worth about $550 million based on the
London share price, to investors to help fund its Natalka
project, he said.  
 Russia’s Brunswick Rail Leasing is “in the process of pre-
IPO fundraising,” its CEO Vladimir Lelekov also said.  
 London Alternative  
 Deripaska’s decision to list Rusal in Hong Kong has
highlighted an alternative to London and New York, where most
capital raised by Russian companies over the last two decades
has come from. Ronald Arculli, chairman of Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearings Ltd., said in February that Russian companies may
raise another $2 billion selling stock in the city this year.
Billionaire Li Ka-Shing was among the Asian investors to buy
Rusal shares in the IPO.  
 “There is a lot more curiosity about the Russia story in
Asia today, whereas two years ago we saw polite disinterest,”
UralSib’s Weafer said.  
 Rusal’s IPO was delayed by regulators at least twice over
questions about the company’s borrowings, and concern on its
debt has hurt the stock price since.  
 Expanding Pool  
 Rising aluminum prices, the increasing value of its stake
in OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s largest mining company, will
bolster the company, Deripaska said yesterday as he reported a
return to profit for Rusal from a $6 billion loss in 2008.  
 Investors will “double their money later,” Deripaska said
in a Bloomberg Television interview.  
 Expanding the pool of investors is important for Russian
companies, which may have to sell as much as $150 billion of
shares over the next five years to pay debt and expand,
according to UralSib.  
 “The traditional investor base for Russian equities has to
expand outside of Europe and the U.S. if that’s going to be
done,” Weafer said.  
 Russian companies plan to sell as much as $974 million of
shares in Moscow in the next two months, ending the longest
drought in IPOs in at least eight years.  
 OAO Russian Railways, operator of the world’s largest
railroad network, said in January that two of its units,
TransContainer and Freight One Co., may raise a combined $4
billion selling shares in Hong Kong and London this year.  
 Deripaska’s EN+  
 Deripaska’s EN+ energy and metals group said April 12 that
it had started preparing its units for share sales and that Hong
Kong would be a “priority platform” for funding.  
 Part of the reason Russian companies need to look abroad
for funding is the dearth of non-state financing at home,
according to Citigroup Inc.  
 “Investable wealth” in Russia fell 19 percent to 3.4
trillion rubles ($116 billion) last year, when the economy
shrank the most since the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union,
Citigroup said April 8. Gross domestic product in Russia fell
7.9 percent last year, compared with 8.7 percent growth in
China.  
 That disparity is opening opportunities for Chinese
companies seeking to do business in Russia.  
 State-run Chinese utility Huadian last month agreed to
build a power plant in central Russia with Moscow-based Sintez
Group. In January, Deripaska’s Basic Element group, which is
building a Russian cement plant with China’s Sinoma Engineering
International, said it was looking for a Chinese partner for its
insurance unit, OAO Ingosstrakh.  
 Cross-Border Deals  
 VTB Capital President Yuri Soloviev said leaders in Russia
and China are making a push to increase cross-border
investments. “Strategic agreements signed at the highest
level” are creating “synergies,” Soloviev said by e-mail.  
 Tencent Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest Internet company by
market value, said today it agreed to pay $300 million for a
stake in Digital Sky Technologies Ltd., the Russian investor in
Facebook Inc.  
 “For an Asian investor, the Russia story is about
diversification against domestic themes,” said David Herne, the
management director of Specialized Research Investment Group in
Moscow. China’s financial and industrial strength and Russia’s
vast natural resources “complement” each other, Herne said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Hong Kong via the Moscow office at
   yhumber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Oleg Deripaska, chief executive officer of United Co. Rusal Ltd., right, shakes hands with Ronald Arculli, chairman of the Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., during the company's listing ceremony in Hong Kong, on Jan. 27, 2010. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
