-- Ahmadinejad Says He's Ready to Discuss Nuclear Issue With U.S.
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-09-20T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/ahmadinejad-says-he-is-ready-to-discuss-iranian-nuclear-program-with-u-s-.html

          
          
             Iran is “ready to discuss” its
nuclear program with a group of countries that includes the
U.S., Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said.  
 “I think we will have a plan to discuss things,”
Ahmadinejad said yesterday in an interview on ABC’s “This
Week” program.  
 Ahmadinejad is scheduled to attend the UN General Assembly
in New York this week at a time of heightened pressure on Iran
to cooperate with international inspections and cease uranium
enrichment activities that western powers believe are intended
to produce nuclear weapons.  
 U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Iran should
return to the “P5 Plus One,” a negotiating forum comprised of
the U.S., U.K., France, Russia, China and Germany, to discuss
its nuclear program.  
 UN-backed sanctions are “biting” Iran’s economy,
especially its financial sector, and the talks offer the country
a “way out of increasing opprobrium from the international
community,” Clinton said on the same ABC program.  
 “The Iranian regime is quite worried about the impact on
their banking system, on their economic growth because they’ve
already encountered some tough economic times,” Clinton said.  
 The U.S. is concerned about the military’s larger role in
the Iranian government, Clinton said. The government has used
the armed forces to “to put down legitimate protests and
demonstrations” and is headed for a “takeover of their
political system” by the military, she said.  
 Inside Iran  
 “I can only hope that there will be some effort inside
Iran by responsible civil and religious leaders to, you know,
take hold of the apparatus of the state,” Clinton said.  
 Current United Nations sanctions “may not change the views
of the Iranians” on pursuing “nuclear power capability,”
former U.S. Secretary of State  Colin Powell  said yesterday on
NBC’s “Meet the Press” program.  
 It would be better to allow Iran to build nuclear power
plants while promising “a set of sanctions that would be
devastating to them” if the reactors were used as part of a
weapons program, Powell said.  
 Clinton urged Iran to release two Americans who have been
detained for more than a year on suspicion of espionage. The two
Americans, Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal, were captured last year
with Sarah Shourd when they crossed into Iran from Iraqi
Kurdistan. The Obama administration has said the three Americans
are hikers who mistakenly wandered into Iran, not U.S. spies.
Shourd was released and allowed to leave Iran Sept. 14.  
 Iran-Iraq Border  
 At a press conference yesterday in New York, Shourd said
the trio had “no knowledge of our proximity to the Iran-Iraq
border,” which was “entirely unmarked and indistinguishable.”
Shourd said she and Bauer, her fiancé, lived in Damascus before
their capture. Fattal arrived in Syria as their guest less than
a week before the trio headed to Iraqi Kurdistan, she said.
Bauer and Fattal should be released immediately, Shourd said.  
 “We committed no crime and we are not spies,” she said.  
 Ahmadinejad said that Shourd’s release was “a huge
humanitarian gesture” and that the two Americans still in
custody “violated” Iranian law.  
 “The cases have to be examined,” Ahmadinejad said. “They
violated the law.” Ahmadinejad said eight Iranians have been
“illegally arrested” in the U.S. and should be set free as a
“humanitarian gesture.”  
 The mothers of the two hikers still held in Iran said at
the press conference that they have asked to meet with
Ahmadinejad while he is in New York to attend the UN General
Assembly. Laura Fattal, mother of Josh Fattal, and Cindy Hickey,
mother of Shane Bauer, said they haven’t heard whether
Ahmadinejad is will to meet with them.  
 The Iranian mission to the UN in New York didn’t
immediately respond to voice-mail message seeking comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  
                       
                         
                           Karim Jaafar/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Photographer: Karim Jaafar/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
