-- Air France, Natixis, Technicolor, Zodiac May Move: French Equity Preview
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-09-20T06:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/air-france-natixis-technicolor-total-zodiac-french-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of
companies whose shares may have unusual price changes in Paris.
Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names. Share
prices are from the last close.  
 France’s  CAC 40 Index  fell 0.4 percent to 3,722.02 in
Paris. The  SBF 120 Index  slid 0.3 percent.  
 Air France-KLM Group  (AF FP): Europe’s largest airline
group is in the process of deciding whether to end passenger
flights at its Dutch Martinair carrier and is taking measures to
reduce losses at Transavia.com, a company spokeswoman said. The
company will inform Martinair employees Sept. 23. The shares
rose 2 percent to 11.25 euros.  
 Areva SA  (CEI FP):  Electricite de France SA  (EDF FP) may
boost its stake in Areva by year-end, Les Echos reported, citing
an interview with Environment and Energy Minister  Jean-Louis Borloo . EDF will take a limited role in increasing Areva’s
capital, the newspaper reported. Areva’s shares rose 3.6 percent
to 329.40 euros.  
 Havas SA (HAV FP): The owner of the Euro RSCG Worldwide
advertising agency is seeking Asia-Pacific takeovers and expects
revenue from the region to more than triple to as much as 20
percent of the total in five years. The shares lost 0.3 percent
to 3.59 euros.  
 Heurtey Petrochem SA  (ALHPC FP): The oil-industry equipment
maker expects “big investments” in Russia in the coming months
as the refinery market there undergoes a revival, Chief
Executive Officer Dominique Henri said, according to Le Journal
des Finances. Heurtey’s first-half orders grew 10 percent from a
year earlier, with most new orders coming from India and the
Middle East, the weekly newspaper said. The shares slipped 0.1
percent to 22.86 euros.  
 Natixis SA  (KN FP): BPCE SA’s investment bank’s Chief
Executive Officer Laurent Mignon said it is “too soon” to
decide what to do with its Coface credit-insurance unit, Le
Journal des Finances reported Sept. 18, citing an interview with
the executive. The shares added 1.5 percent to 4.63 euros.  
 Renault SA  (RNO FP): The carmaker sees a drop of 7 percent
to 9 percent in car sales this year in Europe and a
“significant” decline in 2011, Le Figaro reported, citing
deputy chief operating officer  Patrick Pelata .  
 The company sees strong growth in markets outside of
Europe, including Turkey, Brazil and Russia, the newspaper said.
The shares rose 1.2 percent to 36.11 euros.  
 Safran SA  (SAF FP): The company has agreed to buy U.S.-
based L-1 Identity Solutions Inc. for $12 per share, according
to a statement it issued today. The shares fell 0.1 percent to
19.39 euros.  
 Technicolor  (TCH FP): The production and distribution
services company’s Thomson Licensing unit sued Taiwan’s Qisda
Corp. and Realtek Semiconductor Corp. in federal court in
Delaware alleging infringement of patents for liquid crystal
display products. The shares dropped 1.5 percent to 4.08 euros.  
 Total SA  (FP FP): Greenergy International Ltd., part owned
by Barclays Plc and Tesco Plc, may bid for Total’s 800 petrol
stations to gain infrastructure, the Sunday Times reported Sept.
19, without saying where it obtained the information. The stock
fell 2 percent to 37.86 euros.  
 Zodiac Aerospace SA  (ZC FP): The four largest shareholding
families in Europe’s biggest maker of airplane seats concluded a
pact Sept. 17, committing to maintain their holdings in the face
of merger interest by aircraft engine-maker  Safran . The stock
declined 1.2 percent to 47.51 euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        