-- BAE, BP, Brit Insurance, Vodafone: U.K., Irish Equity Preview
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-09-20T06:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/bae-bp-brit-insurance-vodafone-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of
companies whose shares may have unusual price changes in U.K.
and Irish markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices
are from the last market close.  
 The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  fell 31.69, or 0.6 percent, to
5,508.45. The  FTSE All-Share Index  declined 0.5 percent and
Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  lost 1.5 percent.  
 Allied Irish Banks Plc  (ALBK ID): The lender may sell new
shares before it sells more of its overseas businesses in a
change to its plan to raise capital, the Sunday Business Post
reported, without citing anyone. The stock dropped 11.1 percent
to 62 euro cents.  
 BAE Systems Plc  (BA/ LN): Europe’s largest defense company
and the U.K.’s Ministry of Defence have suspended flights of
their Typhoon combat aircraft amid safety concerns.  
 Separately, BAE said it will buy L-1 Identity Solutions
Inc.’s Intelligence Services Group, including SpecTal LLC,
Advanced Concepts Inc. and McClendon LLC, for about $296 million
in cash. The shares slipped 0.2 percent to 329.2 pence.  
 Barclays Plc  (BARC LN): The bank may create a subsidiary
for its retail deposits as the U.K. Independent Banking
Commission prepares to issue its first paper on Sept. 24, the
London-based Times reported without saying where it got the
information. The shares sank 3.2 percent to 304.7 pence.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd.  (BLT LN): The world’s largest mining
company has obtained $45 billion of loans to back its bid for
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the underwriters said on
Sept. 17.  
 Separately, the Globe and Mail reported that China is close
to making a decision on whether to bid against BHP for control
of Potash. The newspaper cited people familiar with the
situation.  
 The government, which may present a bid by the end of the
month before national holidays start on Oct. 1, is considering
offers from several state-owned companies.  
 BHP shares fell 1.2 percent to 1,940 pence.  
 BP Plc  (BP/ LN): U.S. officials said BP killed its Macondo
well in the Gulf of Mexico by sealing the bottom of the line
with cement, plugging the source of the world’s largest
accidental oil spill. The stock declined 1.3 percent to 403.1
pence.  
 Brit Insurance Holdings NV  (BRE LN): Apollo Global
Management teamed up with CVC Capital Partners Ltd. to make a
fourth, sweetened offer for Brit Insurance valued at as much as
871 million pounds ($1.36 billion). The shares were unchanged at
987.5 pence.  
 Gartmore Group Ltd.  (GRT LN): The U.K. money manager that
began trading its shares in December is to go on a U.K. roadshow
to persuade financial advisers that the company is recovering
after the departure of  Guillaume Rambourg , a former senior
investment analyst, The Mail on Sunday reported, citing Chief
Executive Officer  Jeff Meyer . The stock fell 1.9 percent to
113.8 pence.  
 Hammerson Plc  (HMSO LN): The U.K.’s third-largest real
estate investment trust and Oman may try to sell their office
and retail site at Bishop’s Square in London for about 550
million pounds, the Financial Times reported, without saying
where it got the information. The shares dropped 1.8 percent to
382.8 pence.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc  (HSBA LN): The bank may appoint  Simon Robertson , chairman of Rolls-Royce Group Plc, as a temporary
successor to Chairman Stephen Green, the Sunday Times reported,
without saying where it got the information. The stock retreated
0.4 percent to 672.7 pence.  
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc  (LSE LN): Europe’s oldest
independent bourse is preparing for the departure of Chairman
 Chris Gibson-Smith  by approaching potential replacements for
him, the Sunday Telegraph reported, without saying how it got
the information. The shares lost 1.5 percent to 676 pence.  
 Petra Diamonds Ltd.  (PDL LN): The company that mines
diamonds in Africa posted net income of $63.5 million, or 22.2
cents a share, in the year through June, compared with a net
loss of $90.9 million, or 49.38 cents, a year earlier.  
 “The outlook for the diamond market is positive, with a
significant supply gap anticipated in the coming years as demand
continues apace in emerging markets,” the company said in a
statement. The stock fell 1.4 percent to 72.8 pence.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  (RBS LN): The U.K’s
biggest government-owned bank expects to manage $7 billion to
$10 billion of Gulf Arab bond sales next quarter, which will be
the region’s best three months for debt offerings this year, a
bank official said. The shares dropped 1.2 percent to 47.8
pence.  
 Standard Chartered Plc  (STAN LN): The bank would consider
relocating to Dubai, Singapore or Hong Kong to avoid the impact
of new British regulations, The National reported, citing an
unidentified official at the bank. The stock declined 0.4
percent to 1,900 pence.  
 Vodafone Group Plc  (VOD LN): The world’s biggest mobile
operator may increase its dividends to shareholders by more than
3 billion pounds if Verizon Wireless resumes payments to the
U.K. company, The Observer said, citing unnamed bankers and
analysts. The shares advanced 0.3 percent to 160.3 pence.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Martin  in London at   bmartin38@bloomberg.net .
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        