-- Pound Rally May Reflect Confidence in U.K. Outlook, BOE Says
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-09-20T10:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/bank-of-england-says-pound-rally-may-reflect-confidence-in-u-k-outlook.html

          
          
             A rally in the  pound  in the past
three months may reflect improved investor confidence in the
outlook for the U.K. public finances, the Bank of England said.  
 The 5.6 percent increase in the pound’s effective exchange
rate may reflect the coalition government’s plan to tackle the
record budget deficit as the dollar weakened on “worries”
about the U.S. economy, the London-based central bank said in
its quarterly bulletin today.  
 “Sterling appears to have appreciated by more than would
be suggested by interest-rate differentials,” the report said.
The risk of investing in assets may have improved “because of
reduced uncertainty about the U.K. fiscal outlook.”  
 The coalition government will announce details next month
of the biggest fiscal tightening since World War II. While the
British economy expanded the most in nine years in the  second
quarter , the pace of recovery may be fading on concern about the
squeeze and amid continued market turmoil in Europe.  
 “The U.K. economy continues to recover from the effects of
the financial crisis,” Bank of England Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  said in the report. “But that adjustment process has been
slow and painful. Doubts remained about the durability and speed
of the global economic recovery going forward.”  
 Bond Yields  
 Yields on  Irish  and Greek government debt rose relative to
German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, during the period, while the
spread of U.K. bonds narrowed. Market participants noted that
the government’s deficit plans “reduced uncertainty,” the
report said.  
 The premium investors charge to hold Irish 10-year bonds
over bunds widened to as much as 388 basis points on Sept. 17,
the most on record. The difference between Greek and German
yields reached 952 basis points in the quarter. By comparison,
the yield difference between U.K. and German debt narrowed by
about a third to as low as 65 basis points. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  
 Moody’s Investors Service said today that despite a weak
post-crisis balance sheet and challenging economic outlook, the
U.K. is able to meet these challenges while maintaining its top
Aaa credit rating.  
 The pound has gained 8.6 percent since against the dollar
since falling to a 14-month low on May 20. It has advanced about
4 percent versus the euro over that period. Sterling fell 0.2
percent on the day against the dollar and was at $1.5607 as of
11:24 a.m. in London.  
 Jobless Claims  
 The Bank of England left the  key interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent this month and its bond purchase plan at 200
billion pounds ($313 billion) as policy makers assessed the
strength of the economic recovery.  Unemployment claims  rose in
August while  retail sales  fell for the first time since January.  
 The central bank also said today that borrowing rates for
households haven’t fallen in line with cuts in the key interest
rate as banks increase markups on new lending and incur higher
costs from perceived risks in lending to each other.  
 The difference between the average interest rate charged by
U.K. banks on a 10,000-pound unsecured personal loan and the
Bank of England’s main rate was 10.3 percentage points in August
after falling from a 15-year high of 10.6 percentage points in
October last year, according to central bank data. That compares
with a spread of 1.67 percentage points in July 2007.  
 The higher rates will help banks rebuild capital, which
should help reduce risks in the financial system, cut interbank
lending rates and enable banks to pare household borrowing
costs later on, according to the report.  
 Higher capital levels are “desirable to enhance financial
stability, so long as the process does not unduly constrain the
supply of credit to households and businesses,” the central
bank said. It “reduces the likelihood that lenders will default
and reduces the losses to creditors if lenders do default.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Hamilton  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bank of England Governor Mervyn King  
                       
                         
                           Simon Dawson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The 5.6 percent increase in  the  pound ’s effective exchange rate may  reflect  the coalition government’s plan to tackle the record budget deficit as the dollar weakened on “worries” about the U.S. economy, the London-based central bank  said in its quarterly bulletin today.. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The 5.6 percent increase in  the  pound ’s effective exchange rate may  reflect  the coalition government’s plan to tackle the record budget deficit as the dollar weakened on “worries” about the U.S. economy, the London-based central bank  said in its quarterly bulletin today.. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England.  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
