-- Peyton Wins Manning NFL Showdown as Colts Rout Giants; Jets Beat Patriots
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-09-20T04:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/bears-beat-cowboys-27-20-michael-vick-leads-eagles-to-nfl-week-2-win.html

          
          
             Peyton Manning  got the better of
younger brother Eli as the Indianapolis Colts beat the New York
Giants 38-14 to rebound from their opening-week loss.  
 It was the second time the Manning brothers have faced off
in the National Football League and Peyton, a four-time league
Most Valuable Player, is now 2-0 against Eli and the Giants.  
 The elder Manning passed for 255 yards and three touchdowns
for the Colts, who opened a 24-0 halftime lead in Indianapolis
and cruised to the victory. The Colts forced  Eli Manning  into
three turnovers and avoided starting an NFL season with a 0-2
record for the first time since Peyton’s rookie year in 1998.  
 “It was a good statement and hopefully we can continue
that the rest of the season,” Peyton Manning said during a news
conference.  
 The Colts’ win last night capped a day in which the New
York Jets also rebounded from a season-opening loss by beating
the New England Patriots 28-14.  
 Mark Sanchez  threw three touchdown passes for the Jets, who
scored 21 straight points after falling behind 14-7 at New
Meadowlands Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  
 “It didn’t even feel like a rebound. It just felt like we
played smarter,” Sanchez said at a news conference. “It’s just
tough when you lose that first game. It feels like you’re 0-10.
This game couldn’t come soon enough.”  
 The Colts, Giants, Jets and Patriots all have 1-1 records
two weeks into the regular season.  
 Cowboys, Vikings 0-2  
 The Dallas Cowboys are 0-2 for the first time in nine years
after losing 27-20 yesterday to the Chicago Bears. The Minnesota
Vikings have also dropped two straight, as quarterback  Brett Favre  had four turnovers in a 14-10 loss to the Miami Dolphins.  
 Dallas was tied for the second-best odds of winning the
Super Bowl entering the season at 8-1, while the Vikings were
tied for sixth at 10-1. Since the NFL went to its current 12-
team playoff format a decade ago, 147 of 169 teams to start 0-2
went on to miss the postseason.  
 “It’s frustrating,” Cowboys quarterback  Tony Romo , who
had 374 passing yards and was intercepted twice, told reporters.
“We’ve got to do things better and we need to figure it out in
a hurry.”  
 The Kansas City Chiefs and Tampa Bay Buccaneers, who had
100-1 Super Bowl odds to start the season, both won to improve
to 2-0. The Chiefs held on for a 16-14 win over the Cleveland
Browns and the Buccaneers beat the Carolina Panthers 20-7.  
 Undefeated Teams  
 The Houston Texans are among five other teams at 2-0 after
beating the Washington Redskins 30-27 in overtime.  
 Houston quarterback  Matt Schaub  passed for 497 yards and
three touchdowns as the Texans rallied from a 20-7 halftime
deficit.  Graham Gano  missed a 52-yard field goal attempt for the
Redskins in overtime and Schaub drove the Texans 41 yards to set
up a winning 35-yard kick by  Neil Rackers .  
 Michael Vick  threw two touchdown passes to help the
Philadelphia Eagles to a 35-32 win over the Detroit Lions in his
first start at quarterback in four years.  
 Elsewhere in Week 2, it was: Atlanta 41, Arizona 7;
Cincinnati 15, Baltimore 10; Green Bay 34, Buffalo 7; Pittsburgh
19, Tennessee 11; Denver 31, Seattle 14; Oakland 16, St. Louis
14; and San Diego 38, Jacksonville 13.  
 The Super Bowl champion New Orleans Saints play at San
Francisco tonight.  
 At New Meadowlands Stadium, Sanchez hooked up with  Jerricho Cotchery  and  Dustin Keller  for second-half touchdowns, while the
Jets’ defense held the Patriots scoreless after halftime without
 Darrelle Revis .  
 Revis Hamstrung  
 All-Pro cornerback Revis didn’t return to the game after
aggravating a hamstring injury while getting beaten by  Randy Moss  for a second-quarter touchdown. Revis said he’ll have tests
today to determine the extent of the injury.  
 Sanchez finished with 220 passing yards after failing to
complete a pass in the first quarter. Patriots Pro Bowl
quarterback  Tom Brady  committed three turnovers -- two
interceptions and a fumble -- after halftime.  
 “We had a hard time doing anything in the second half,”
Brady told reporters. “We couldn’t run it, we couldn’t throw it.
We just sucked.”  
 At Lucas Oil Stadium, Peyton Manning threw touchdown passes
to  Dallas Clark  and  Austin Collie  as the hometown team raced out
to an early lead.  
 The Colts quarterback threw for 154 yards in the first half,
while his brother connected on three of eight passes for 17
yards and an interception.  
 Eli Manning threw a 54-yard touchdown pass to  Mario Manningham  early in the third quarter. On the Giants’ next
possession, he was stripped of the ball by  Dwight Freeney  and
Fili Moala recovered the fumble for a touchdown.  
 Peyton threw a 10-yard scoring pass to  Reggie Wayne  to push
the Colts’ lead to 38-7 before Eli capped the scoring by hooking
up with  Hakeem Nicks  for a 31-yard touchdown pass with 1:52
remaining. Eli finished with 161 passing yards and fumbled twice.  
 “They just came out and outperformed us,” Eli said.
“That’s what it came down to.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Peyton Wins Manning Showdown  
                       
                         
                           Andy Lyons/Getty Images 
                         
                         Eli Manning #10 of the New York Giants and Peyton Manning #18 of the Indianapolis Colts embrace following the Colts 38-14 win at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, Indiana. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Eli Manning #10 of the New York Giants and Peyton Manning #18 of the Indianapolis Colts embrace following the Colts 38-14 win at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, Indiana. Photographer: Andy Lyons/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
