-- Bill Clinton Says His Global Initiative Will Aid Unemployed Americans
-- Miles Weiss
-- 2010-09-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/bill-clinton-says-his-global-initiative-will-extend-aid-to-jobless-in-u-s-.html

          
          
             Former U.S. President  Bill Clinton ’s campaign against poverty in poor countries is making
room this year for programs to aid unemployed Americans.  
 The Clinton Global Initiative, a forum to connect corporate
donors with non-profit groups, will “try to spend more time on
the domestic needs,” Clinton said on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
yesterday. With the nation’s unemployment rate at 9.6 percent,
U.S. workers need help “with both jobs and with training,” he
said.  
 The “biggest problem” that stands in the way of boosting
employment is a “skills mismatch” in the U.S. economy, Clinton
said. This means “the jobs that are being opened don’t have
qualified people applying for them,” he said. If job-specific
training were provided to 5 million unemployed workers, the
jobless rate would fall to around 7 percent, Clinton said.  
 Clinton and his wife Hillary, the U.S. Secretary of State,
will speak tomorrow at the initiative’s annual meeting, which
aims to connect corporate donors with non-profit groups, aid
organizations, and others involved in helping to alleviate
poverty in the developing world.  
 It has focused its efforts on four areas: education,
economic empowerment, global health and environment and energy.
The initiative claims to have won 1,700 “commitments” from
partners since it was founded in 2005, according to its  website .
They range from a U.S. physician who collects serviceable used
medical equipment from the U.S. and ships it to the developing
world, to a plan by  Merck & Co. , the U.S. pharmaceutical firm to
partner with  Becton, Dickinson & Co.,  a maker of disposable
hypodermic needles, to distribute 3 million doses of a vaccine
against cervical cancer.  
 American Jobs  
 This year’s initiative will create some “interesting
commitments” that affect America, such as how to create jobs in
clean energy in the U.S. without involvement from the
government, Clinton said yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”
 Terry McAuliffe , chairman of GreenTech Automotive Inc. and the
former head of the Democratic National Committee, is bringing
two electric cars to the initiative, Clinton said.  
 Clinton also said the U.S. needs a strategy to revive the
middle class, in part by creating jobs in small business,
manufacturing and clean energy. On a global basis, Clinton’s
initiative will attempt to help girls and women get a “fair
share” of education as well as participate in the revival of
the economies of their countries, Clinton said.  
 The Clinton program will take place as world leaders
including U.S. President  Barack Obama , French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  meet in New York for
the United Nations General Assembly session to review the UN’s
Millennium Development Goals, a 15-year plan to halve poverty
across the world by 2015.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net ;
 Miles Weiss  in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Former U.S. President Bill Clinton  
                       
                         
                           Joe Raedle/Getty Images 
                         
                         Former U.S. President Bill Clinton attends a meeting of the Interim Haiti Reconstruction Commission as they discuss reconstruction efforts after the massive January earthquake in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Former U.S. President Bill Clinton attends a meeting of the Interim Haiti Reconstruction Commission as they discuss reconstruction efforts after the massive January earthquake in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Photographer: Joe Raedle/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
