-- China Suspends Ministerial-Level Talks With Japan Over Boat Clash
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-09-20T14:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/china-pledges-strong-reaction-to-japan-detention-of-fishing-boat-captain.html

          
          
             Diplomatic ties between the world’s
second- and third-biggest economies soured as China escalated a
dispute over Japan’s extended detention of a fishing boat
captain for a collision in disputed waters.  
 China yesterday severed senior-level government contacts
with Japan, halting aviation talks and suspending a meeting on
coal because of the incident. Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ma Zhaoxu  pledged “strong countermeasures” if Japan failed to
release the captain. Japan’s government hasn’t been informed of
the measures, a spokesman said today.  
 “Any so-called judicial proceedings the Japanese side takes
against the Chinese captain are illegal and invalid,” Ma said
in yesterday’s statement. “Japan will have to bear all of the
consequences.”  
 The dispute, at a time when economic ties are deepening,
has made relations their worst since 2005, when thousands of
Chinese protested Japanese textbooks that downplayed wartime
atrocities. Economic interdependence and a desire to solve the
dispute peacefully will probably keep the issue from a dangerous
escalation, said  Zhu Feng , a professor of international
relations at Peking University.  
 Economic Interdependence  
 China’s 90-fold economic expansion of the last three
decades was underpinned by a peaceful international environment
and booming trade ties with its Asian neighbors. Japan is
China’s second-biggest trading partner after the U.S., with two-
way commerce in the first seven months of the year rising 24.7
percent from the same period in 2009 to $65.2 billion, according
to Chinese customs statistics.  
 China is Japan’s biggest trading partner, and Japanese
companies are increasingly dependent on China’s market for
future growth.  Nissan Motor Co.  Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn , speaking at a plant opening in central China today, said
that the country now accounts for 23 percent of sales for the
Japanese automaker.  
 Zhu said that while the quarrel is “very serious,” both
governments will keep it from escalating into a conflict
involving military force or economic sanctions.  
 “Politically and diplomatically I see the standoff
enduring for some time but it will calm down after a while,”
Zhu said.  
 At the same time, domestic pressures may make it hard for
either side to back down immediately out lest they be perceived
as weak by the public. Japan has repeatedly expressed concern
about China’s growing military budget and influence, while
Chinese anger lingers over the Japanese occupation of large
parts of the country between 1937 and 1945.  
 ‘Some Posturing’  
 “They are just waiting for a while; they have to engage in
some posturing,”  Joseph Cheng , a political science professor at
the City University of Hong Kong, told Bloomberg Television.
“Both governments also understand that it is important not to
allow the bilateral relationship to sharply deteriorate.”  
 Japanese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hidenobu Sobashima said
the government “hasn’t confirmed the specific details that have
been reported” regarding the breaking off of talks.  
 Japan “has been responding calmly and cautiously so as not
to escalate the situation,” he said today in Tokyo. “We are
calling on China to respond calmly as well.”  
 China’s warning yesterday came a day after 40
demonstrators were seen protesting outside Japan’s embassy in
Beijing, and were kept away from the entrance by police. Other
reports said as many as 100 protesters had gathered near the
embassy.  
 Captain Detained  
 Japan has repeatedly refused to release the captain, Zhan
Qixiong, saying he is being investigated for a Sept. 7 collision
with two of its Coast Guard vessels near a group of disputed
islands in the East China Sea. The government yesterday extended
his detention until Sept. 29.  
 Markets in Japan were closed today for a holiday. The
 Shanghai Composite Index  fell 9.98, or 0.4 percent, to 2,588.71,
the lowest close since Aug. 12. The gauge declined 2.4 percent
last week, the most in more than two months, amid concern
government measures to curb lending and energy consumption will
slow economic and earnings growth.  
 Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  yesterday said on NHK
television that the dispute over the fishing boat captain was
being handled according to Japanese law. He called on China to
handle the issue calmly and expressed appreciation for the way
the demonstrations were handled.  
 ‘Making Efforts’  
 “China is making efforts for us,” Maehara said. He
reiterated that the islands, known as Diaoyu in Chinese and
 Senkaku  in Japanese, are “an integral part of Japanese
territory.”  
 China has summoned Japan’s ambassador several times to
lodge formal protests over the incident, most recently
yesterday. Both countries claim the islands, which are
administered by Japan. Sovereignty over the area would give the
holder rights to undersea gas and oil reserves. China is moving
drilling equipment to a disputed gas field in the area, Agence
France-Presse said Sept. 17, citing Japan’s Foreign Ministry.  
 Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore energy producer, fell
in Hong Kong trading, dropping 0.4 percent at HK$14.66. The
benchmark Hang Seng index gained less than 0.1 percent.  China
Oilfield Services Ltd. , which counts Cnooc as its largest
customer, declined 0.7 percent to HK$11.18.  
 Natural Gas  
 Cnooc is already producing oil and gas to the west of the
disputed area. China and Japan have failed to implement an
agreement signed in June 2008 to develop a natural gas field
together and Japan has objected to Chinese drilling near a
contested border.  
 “This could dampen sentiment toward any prior rhetoric of
joint oil and gas development in the region and trigger kneejerk
profit-taking in Cnooc,”  Gordon Kwan , head of regional energy
research at Mirae Asset Securities in Hong Kong, said in e-
mailed comments.  
 China’s state-owned Xinhua News Agency reported earlier
today that “an outraged Chinese public” is screaming for the
release of the captain. One note on the Chinese-language Web
site of the state-owned Global Times blamed the U.S. for stoking
the issue, another pledged to use not “one hair” of goods from
Japan, and instead use “ten-thousand German goods.”  
 Some Chinese companies are taking actions against Japan.
Pro-Health, a Beijing-based health product manufacturing and
sales company, canceled a trip to Japan involving about 10,000
employees, the company said in a Sept. 17  statement  posted on
its website. The trip was canceled to protest the boat captain’s
arrest, it said.  
 Japan’s foreign ministry today said China had revoked an
invitation for 1,000 youths to attend the Shanghai World Expo
because of rising tensions.  
 “The youth exchange program contributes to establishing a
base for a stable bilateral relationship, and it is very
inappropriate and regrettable for the Chinese side to make this
decision,” the ministry said in its  statement .  
 -- Michael Forsythe . With assistance from  Sachiko Sakamaki  and
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo and  John Duce  in Hong Kong. Editors:  John Brinsley ,  Ben Richardson .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7580 or
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       China Suspends Minister-Level Talks With Japan  
                       
                         
                           Philippe Lopez/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         A Chinese demonstrator shouts slogans near the Japanese consulate during a protest in Shanghai. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A Chinese demonstrator shouts slogans near the Japanese consulate during a protest in Shanghai. Photographer: Philippe Lopez/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
