-- BP Risks Being Shut Out of Gulf of Mexico Drilling
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-09-20T15:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/dudley-faces-battle-to-drill-in-gulf-of-mexico-as-bp-says-goodbye-macondo.html

          
          
             The  BP Plc  relief well that killed
the worst U.S. oil spill may be the last it drills in the Gulf
of Mexico for some time.  
 Robert Dudley , the American who takes over as chief
executive officer from  Tony Hayward  on Oct. 1, risks being shut
out from the region where BP is the biggest producer as he deals
with legal battles over blame for the spill. The London-based
company, called “reckless” by President  Barack Obama , will
come under greater scrutiny than rivals from regulators when
drilling resumes, analysts said.  
 A ban on deepwater wells lasts until the end of November
and Congressional elections on Nov. 2 may intensify public
pressure on BP after tens of thousands of job were lost in oil
exploration, fishing and tourism. A bill passed by the House in
July and stalled in the Senate would bar BP from new offshore
leases because of its safety record.  
 “People are angry and elections are coming up,” said
 Christine Tiscareno , an equity research analyst at Standard &
Poor’s in London. “There’s a good chance that the U.S.
government will place some sort of sanction against BP in the
Gulf, or will let them operate with certain restrictions.”  
 BP yesterday declared the Macondo well, which exploded on
April 20, “effectively dead” after a successful pressure test
of a new cement seal pumped through the relief well.  
 No  crude  or gas has leaked since BP capped Macondo from
above on July 15. BP said yesterday it had spent $9.5 billion in
the response and that approximately 25,200 personnel, more than
2,600 vessels and dozens of aircraft are engaged in the effort.  
 ‘Important Milestone’  
 Sealing the well for good is “an important milestone, the
end of a chapter” said  Ivor Pether , an analyst at Royal London
Asset Management, which holds $9.2 billion in securities and
added to its BP shareholding during the crisis. “They can now
start to scale back the considerable infrastructure resources
around the well and devote their full attention to the cleanup
and legal battles that lie ahead.”  
 BP shares have dropped 37 percent in London since the
accident, wiping about 45 billion pounds ($70 billion) off the
value of the company. The stock rose 2.1 percent to 411.35 pence
at of 4:30 p.m. close of trading in London today.  
 BP faces about 400  lawsuits  and set aside $32.2 billion in
the second quarter to pay for the spill. A probe by U.S.
Attorney General  Eric Holder  may lead to prosecution of the
company or employees, suspension of well operating licenses and
debarment from government contracts under U.S. pollution law, BP
said July 27.  
 ‘Legal Nightmare’  
 “The first phase of the nightmare is over,” said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York. “But the
legal nightmare could be even worse. The biggest unknown is
going to be the penalty, and it’s critical for them to show
they’re not the only guilty party.”  
 BP’s fine under the Clean Water Act could range from at
least $1,100 per barrel to as much as $4,300 per barrel under
the Clean Water Act if the company is found to be grossly
negligent, which  Duhaime’s Law Dictionary  defines as acting in
“reckless disregard of the consequences to the safety or
property of others.”  
 With the government’s estimate of about 4.1 million barrels
of oil spilled, a finding of gross negligence would push the
fine to $17.6 billion under gross negligence versus $4.5 billion
without.  
 Job Losses  
 Obama’s moratorium on deepwater drilling, which started May
28 and idled 33 rigs, may cost between 8,000 and 12,000 jobs,
the government said last week. The administration initially
estimated that as many as 23,247 would be lost, and BP agreed to
pay $100 million into a fund to help laid-off workers.  
 The House passed a bill in July that included an amendment
disqualifying from new offshore leases companies with safety
violations greater than five times the industry average in the
past seven years, or that have had more than 10 fatalities at
exploration and production facilities in the same period. Eleven
people died when Macondo exploded, sinking the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig.  
 “We are moving quickly and responsibly to raise the bar
for the oil and gas industry’s safety and environmental
practices to prevent this type of disaster from happening
again,” Interior Department spokeswoman  Kendra Barkoff  said in
an e-mailed response to questions.  
 For Dudley, keeping a grip on the Gulf of Mexico is key to
earning enough to pay off BP’s obligations. The Gulf accounts
for more than 10 percent of  BP’s production , and before the
accident the company planned six final investment decisions for
the region this year.  
 “It’s going to be harder for everybody in the Gulf now,”
Oppenheimer’s Gheit said. “There’s no sympathy for BP or the
industry in general.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Robert Dudley, incoming CEO of BP Plc  
                       
                         
                           Graham Barclay/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Robert Dudley, incoming chief executive officer of BP Plc. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Robert Dudley, incoming chief executive officer of BP Plc. Photographer: Graham Barclay/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. officials said BP Plc killed its Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico after creating another cement seal, plugging the source of the largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history.
     "The Macondo 252 well is effectively dead," said National Incident Commander Thad Allen in a statement yesterday. BP completed its last pressure test on the plugs at 5:54 a.m. local time before declaring the well sealed, according to the statement. Susan Li reports on Bloomberg Television's "First Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
