-- Hedge Funds Cut Bullish Natural Gas Bets to Lowest This Year
-- Moming Zhou
-- 2010-09-20T19:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/hedge-funds-slash-bullish-natural-gas-bets-to-year-s-low-energy-markets.html

          
          
             Hedge funds reduced their bets on
rising natural gas prices to the lowest level this year as mild
weather and a lack of storms in the Gulf of Mexico forced
traders to unload their bullish positions.  
 Hedge funds and other large speculators  cut wagers  on gas
gaining by 16 percent in the seven days ended Sept. 14,
according to the weekly Commitments of Traders report from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Gas has tumbled 31 percent
this year amid rising production from shale formations and a
supply glut that air-conditioning demand in the hottest summer
in at least 60 years didn’t significantly dent.  
 “It’s hard to stay long and stay buying when the trend
continued to sell off,” said  Rich Ilczyszyn , a market
strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in Chicago. “The weather
play is over, and there is no major damage in the Gulf, no major
storms.”  
 Gas prices peaked this summer at $5.196 per million British
thermal units on June 16 as forecasts pointed to hotter-than-
normal weather and an active hurricane season. Prices have since
declined 26 percent, falling in five of the previous six weeks,
as storms stayed away from major Gulf gas production and
temperatures turned lower.  
 Natural gas for October delivery fell 20.2 cents, or 5
percent, to settle at $3.822 per million Btu today on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. The futures dropped to $3.61 on Aug.
27, the lowest level in 11 months.  
 Gas Contracts  
 Net-long positions in futures and options combined in four
natural-gas contracts decreased by 8,730 futures equivalents to
45,961 in the week ended Sept. 14, the CFTC data showed.  
 The measure of natural-gas net longs includes an index of
four contracts adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural
gas futures, Nymex Henry Hub Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate
Swaps, and ICE Henry Hub Swaps. Henry Hub in Erath, Louisiana,
is the delivery point for the Nymex futures, a benchmark price
for the fuel.  
 Temperatures in the U.S. turned lower starting from the
second week of September, according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in State
College, Pennsylvania. Daily high temperatures in New York were
mostly below 80 degrees Fahrenheit (27 Celsius) last week,
according to AccuWeather. The city sweltered under a record 103
degrees on July 6.  
 “At this time of the year, you are not going to see much
cooling demand,” said  Brad Florer , a trader at Kottke
Associates Inc., an energy trading firm in Louisville, Kentucky.  
 Power Demand  
 There were 1,018 population-weighted cooling degree days in
the three months ended August, the highest level since 1950,
when reliable records began, according to  Travis Hartman , a
meteorologist at MDA Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy Weather,
based in Rockville, Maryland.  
 Cooling degree days , calculated by subtracting a base of 65
degrees from the average daily temperature, is a value designed
to show energy demand.  
 About 23 percent of U.S. electricity is generated using
natural gas, according to the Energy Department.  
 This hurricane season has had less of an impact on gas
production in the Gulf than the government expected.  
 A total of 7.9 billion cubic feet of gas production was
shut in from June through August because of storms, down from
projections of 57.4 billion, the Energy Department said in its
monthly  Short-Term Energy Outlook  on Sept. 8.  
 Hurricane Karl landed Sept. 17 in Mexico about 10 miles
north of Veracruz as a “major” Category 3 storm, the fifth of
the season, according to the National Hurricane Center. Storms
so far have spared main Gulf gas production areas.  
 Gas Production  
 About 10 percent of U.S. gas output will come from federal
waters in the Gulf of Mexico this year compared with 17 percent
five years ago, according to Energy Department estimates.  
 U.S. gas stockpiles jumped 103 billion cubic feet in the
week ended Sept. 10 to 3.267 trillion, the Energy Department
reported last week. A survey of Bloomberg users showed an
expected increase of 95 billion. The inventory gain exceeded the
five-year average for the first time since April.  
 The storage increase was the  biggest weekly gain  for this
time of the year since 2006.  
 A surplus to the five-year average rose for the first time
since the week ended April 30, increasing to 6.2 percent from
5.5 percent the previous week. A deficit to year-earlier
supplies narrowed to 5.3 percent from 6.5 percent.  
 Swelling Supplies  
 Inventories will peak at 3.687 trillion cubic feet before
cold-weather demand prompts utilities to pull gas from storage,
the department predicted in its monthly Short-Term Energy
Outlook. Stockpiles rose to a record 3.837 trillion cubic feet
last November.  
 In other markets, hedge funds boosted their bullish bets in
 crude ,  gasoline  and  heating oil  in the same week after a Sept. 9
closure of an Enbridge Energy Partners LP pipeline reduced crude
imports to the U.S. from Canada.  
 Net-long positions in  crude  futures and options combined
jumped by 44 percent in the week ended Sept. 14 to 122,609
contracts. For  gasoline , they more than doubled to 15,807
contracts. Net longs in  heating oil  also more than doubled to
19,262 contracts.  
 The increase was “probably triggered by the Enbridge
pipeline situation,” said  Peter Beutel , president of trading
advisory company Cameron Hanover Inc. in New Canaan,
Connecticut.  
 Crude for October delivery rose to $77.19 on Sept. 13, the
highest settlement since Aug. 11. The October contract gained
$1.20, or 1.6 percent, to $74.86 a barrel today in New York.  
 Heating oil advanced 4.02 cents to $2.1394 a gallon, while
gasoline rose 3.04 cents to $1.9496 a gallon.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hedge Funds Cut Bullish Gas Bets to Year’s Low  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A gas ring burns on a stove. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A gas ring burns on a stove. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
