-- Benchmark DAX Index Rises for First Time in Four Days; BMW Shares Advance
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-09-20T15:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/heidelberger-kabel-deutschland-porsche-may-move-german-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Germany stocks  rose, with the
benchmark DAX Index closing within one percent of its highest
level this year, as concern about the impact of the region’s
debt crisis eased.  
 K+S AG, Europe’s largest potash producer, soared 4.7
percent as fertilizer shares surged. Commerzbank gained 1.5
percent after UBS AG upgraded its stance Germany’s second-
biggest bank. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG rallied 3.6 percent as
Barclays Plc increased its price estimate on the shares.  
 The  DAX index  advanced 1.4 percent to 6,294.58 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge is now trading within 1
percent of this year’s high reached August 9 as concern about a
slowdown in economic growth in the U.S. and China eased. The
broader HDAX Index climbed 1.3 percent today.  
 “We find the background for stocks still constructive,”
Mislav Matejka, head of pan-European equity strategy at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., wrote in a report today. “Bank lending standards
are easing, earnings remain on an uptrend.”  
 Stocks rallied today as Moody’s Investors Service affirmed
the U.K.’s top credit rating, saying the country’s finances will
be able to withstand a challenging economic outlook. Irish
Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said his country won’t need
European Union financial aid, even as the extra yield investors
demand to own Ireland and Portugal’s government debt jumped to a
record high.  
 The Bundesbank said growth in Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, slowed “markedly” in the third quarter as the global
recovery weakened.  
 “After an extraordinarily strong acceleration of growth in
the second quarter, the growth dynamic of the German economy has
slowed markedly,” the Frankfurt-based central bank said in its
monthly report published today. “Still-high export
expectations, although they weakened somewhat recently, suggest
that the recovery remains intact.”  
 Fitch on Germany  
 Fitch Ratings affirmed Germany’s long-term foreign and
local currency Issuer Default Ratings at AAA with stable
outlooks.  
 K+S rallied 4.7 percent to 45.22 euros. China is close to a
decision on a rival bid to BHP Billiton Ltd.’s for control of
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the Globe and Mail reported,
citing people familiar with the situation.  
 Commerzbank gained 1.5 percent to 6.42 euros after the
shares were raised to “neutral” from “sell” at UBS AG. The
brokerage raised its share price estimate 10 percent to 6 euros,
according to a report today.  
 “We think the strong German economy and low interest rate
environment should benefit this ‘asset-heavy’ bank with its
large problem loan and legacy structured credit books,”  Philipp Zieschang , an analyst at UBS, wrote in the note. “In addition,
the company has further room to benefit from deferred tax assets
on 12 billion-euro losses carried forward.”  
 BMW climbed 3.6 percent to 49.13 euros as Barclays lifted
its price estimate on the shares 11 percent to 61 euros.  
 Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG  sank 6.4 percent to 3.56
euros after the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung cited
Chief Executive Officer  Bernhard Schreier  as saying that the
world’s largest maker of printing presses is likely to post a
net loss for 2010.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        