-- Escaping Double Dip to Growth Recession Means No Job Relief
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-09-20T16:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/escaping-double-dip-to-growth-recession-means-no-unemployment-relief-seen.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  pulled out all the stops to avert a depression last
year. Now he and his colleagues must decide how to respond to
the risk of a growth recession in 2011.  
 The possibility of a sub-par expansion poses a dilemma for
the central bank’s policy-making Federal Open Market Committee
when it meets tomorrow. While the economy isn’t so weak that
it’s clearly in need of more monetary stimulus, it may not be
strong enough to keep  unemployment  from increasing.  
 Twenty seven of 58 economists polled by Bloomberg News this
month see growth in 2011 below the 2.5 percent to 2.8 percent
pace Fed policy makers peg as the long-term trend. Twenty eight
see the jobless rate rising above last month’s 9.6 percent
sometime in the next nine months. That combination would
constitute a growth recession.  
 “When you’re in a crisis, your mandate’s a little
different and you’re not debating things,” said  Diane Swonk ,
chief economist at Chicago-based Mesirow Financial Inc., who
attended the Fed’s annual gathering in Jackson Hole, Wyoming,
last month. “When you’re in the no-man’s-land” of a “post-
crisis economy, it’s a lot harder.”  
 The Fed’s difficulties are compounded by the fact that it
has already cut the  overnight interbank interest rate  to near
zero and FOMC members are divided about the costs and benefits
of further easing through unconventional policies such as buying
more bonds and increasing its $2.3 trillion  balance sheet .  
 ‘More Split’  
 The Fed “is more split than I can ever remember,” said
 Laurence Meyer , a Fed governor from 1996 to 2002 who is now
senior managing director of St. Louis-based Macroeconomic
Advisers.  
 While policy makers aren’t likely to adopt any new
initiatives at their meeting tomorrow, they probably will
announce a major asset-buying program in January, said  Ethan Harris , head of developed-markets economic research at BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research in New York.  
 That would push the  yield  on 10-year Treasury notes below 2
percent in the first quarter of 2011, he said. It stood at 2.74
percent at 4:41 p.m. on Sept. 17 in New York, according to
BGCantor Market Data.  
 Lower yields would make investments in shares of companies
that pay dividends more attractive, said  Jerry Webman , chief
economist and senior investment officer at OppenheimerFunds in
New York, which manages more than $155 billion.  
 “One of the things we’ve been doing is encouraging
investors in this environment to look at stocks with rising
dividends,” he said.  
 First Dividend  
 He pointed to  Cisco Systems Inc. , which said on Sept. 14
that it plans its first shareholder payout this fiscal year. The
San Jose, California-based company is the world’s largest maker
of computer-networking equipment.  
 The late Solomon Fabricant, a professor of economics at New
York University, coined the term growth recession to describe an
economy that isn’t expanding fast enough to keep unemployment
from rising. The minutes of the Fed’s last meeting, on August
10, suggested the central-bank staff didn’t see that happening
next year. While lowering its forecast for the balance of 2010,
the staff foresaw “a moderate strengthening of the expansion in
2011” that would reduce the jobless rate. Fed officials will
present an updated forecast at tomorrow’s meeting.  
 The recession ended in June 2009, the National Bureau of
Economic Research said in a statement today. Growth has slowed
this year though, to an annualized 1.6 percent in the second
quarter from 3.7 percent in the first and 5 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2009, according to the Commerce Department in
Washington.  
 ‘Less Vigorous’  
 The pace of the expansion “recently appears somewhat less
vigorous than we expected,” Bernanke said in an Aug. 27 speech
at Jackson Hole. “Although output growth should be stronger
next year, resource slack and unemployment seem likely to
decline only slowly.”  
 Continued high  joblessness  -- the unemployment rate has
been at or above 9.5 percent for more than a year -- is taking a
toll on the economy and consumer spending.  
 “Our customer remains challenged,”  William Simon ,
president and chief executive officer of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ,
the world’s largest retailer, told a Goldman Sachs global
retailing conference in New York on Sept. 15. The Bentonville,
Arkansas-based company has “to figure out how to deal with what
is an ever-increasing amount of transactions being paid for with
government assistance.  
 Midnight Shoppers  
 “You need not go farther than one of our stores on
midnight at the end of the month,” Simon said. “About 11 p.m.
customers start to come in and shop, fill their grocery basket
with basic items -- baby formula, milk, bread, eggs -- and
continue to shop and mill about the store until midnight when
government electronic benefits cards get activated, and then the
checkout starts.”  
 Some Fed policy makers have voiced doubts about how much
the central bank can do to spur growth and lower unemployment.
Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  blamed much of
the joblessness on “mismatch problems,” with many Americans
lacking the skills to fill jobs that are available.  
 Such problems “do not strike me as readily amenable to the
kinds of monetary-policy tools currently available to the Fed,”
he said in a Sept. 8 speech in Missoula, Montana.  
 Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said that he would be
reluctant to ease policy further because the economy is
constrained by fiscal and regulatory uncertainty. “Further
accommodation might be pushing on a string,” he said in a
speech on Sept. 1 in Houston.  
 Fed Aid  
 Bernanke has said the Fed does have the ability to aid the
economy, if that’s what’s needed.  
 “We have the tools to help support economic activity and
guard against disinflation,” he told fellow central bankers at
Jackson Hole.  
 The last time the U.S. confronted a growth recession was in
2002-2003, as it struggled to recover from the 2001 contraction.
After climbing at a 3.5 percent annual pace in the first quarter
of 2002, the economy slowed throughout the year, rising just 0.1
percent in the fourth quarter. The jobless rate rose to 6
percent in December from 5.7 percent in January.  
 The Fed responded by  cutting  its target for the federal
funds rate by a half percentage point in November and by a
further quarter point in June of the following year. That left
the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans at 1
percent.  
 Near Zero  
 With the rate now near zero, the focus of policy has
shifted to the balance sheet and the possibility the Fed might
add to its holdings of securities, particularly Treasuries.  
 Such purchases “would be effective in further easing
financial conditions,” Bernanke said in Jackson Hole, adding
that the extent of the impact isn’t clear.  
 “Lacking much experience with this option, we do not have
very precise knowledge of the quantitative effect of changes in
our holdings,” he said.  
 The central bank’s purchases of securities in 2008 and 2009
may have lowered the yield on 10-year Treasury notes by as much
as a half percentage point, based on research by the New York
Fed. The effect on the mortgage-backed securities rate was
larger, according to the research. In all, the Fed bought $1.75
trillion of securities, including $300 billion in Treasuries.  
 Future purchases may have less influence on rates, said
 Lyle Gramley , a former Fed governor who is now a senior economic
adviser for the Potomac Research Group in Washington. That’s
because such buying seems to have a greater impact at times of
heightened stress in financial markets, such as in 2008 and
2009, he said.  
 ‘Limited’ Effect  
 While Japan’s asset-buying program from 2001 to 2006 -- so-
called quantitative easing -- had a “limited” effect in
boosting the economy, it did help dispel concerns about the
finances of the country’s banks, according to a  July 2006 paper 
by Bank of Japan official Hiroshi Ugai.  Unemployment  fell to 4
percent in December 2006 from 4.8 percent in January 2001 after
rising as high as 5.5 percent during the six years.  
 The Fed doesn’t have the research to “be confident about
the effects” of asset purchases on the economy, said  David Resler , chief economist at Nomura Securities in New York. Still,
with growth slowing, he predicts it will announce a program
tomorrow.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rich Miller  in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net 
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Larry Kantor, head of research at Barclays Capital in New York, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stocks.
     The worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended in June 2009, the National Bureau of Economic Research said yesterday, as a slowdown in economic growth raises the possibility of another slump. The decision came as Federal Reserve policy makers meet this week to consider whether new measures to boost growth are needed and the Obama administration proposes additional fiscal stimulus. Kantor talks with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television's "First Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Lakshman Achuthan, managing director of the  Economic Cycle Research Institute in New York, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     The worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended in June 2009, the National Bureau of Economic Research said yesterday, as a slowdown in economic growth raises the possibility of another slump. Achuthan talks with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television's "First Up."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
