-- Europe Debt Crisis Abates as Traders See Yield Spreads Narrow
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-09-20T13:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/europe-debt-crisis-abating-as-government-traders-see-yield-spreads-narrow.html

          
          
             Four months after a European Union-
led bailout, Germany’s biggest bond dealers say the worst is
over for the region’s most-indebted nations.  
 Yields  on government bonds of Greece, Spain, Ireland and
Portugal will fall to within 2.2 percentage points of benchmark
German bunds on average in the next two years from 4.61
percentage points last week, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of 15 banks that trade directly with Germany’s debt
agency. HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest bank by market
value, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Societe Generale SA advise
buying securities sold by Greece.  
 Bond dealers are confident that austerity measures will be
enough to damp speculation the 16-nation currency union is in
jeopardy of falling apart. Gross domestic product in the region
will likely increase 1.7 percent this year instead of the 0.9
percent projected at the depth of the crisis in May, the
European Commission said Sept. 13. Banks were given more time to
raise capital levels to meet new regulations, reducing the
likelihood they will need additional government aid.  
 “All the policy backstops have put a floor under the
downside risks for peripheral euro-region bonds,” said  Michael Vaknin , a senior fixed-income strategist in London at Goldman
Sachs, which didn’t participate in the survey. “Spreads are
near their records, but the EU and International Monetary Fund
have pledged their support and opportunities are starting to
emerge.”  
 Greece Favored  
 HSBC and Goldman Sachs recommend Greek 30-year bonds as the
price languishes at about 50 percent of face value. Societe
Generale advises buying three-year Greek notes, betting a rally
in two-year debt will extend to longer-dated securities.
Norway’s $450 billion sovereign-wealth fund, the world’s second-
biggest, has purchased Spanish, Portuguese and Greek securities.  
 Pictet Asset Management ended bets that Irish bonds will
underperform after yield spreads widened to a record.  
 “At the very end of August we closed our short position in
Ireland,” said  Mickael Benhaim , who helps oversee $60 billion
of fixed-income investments at Pictet in Geneva.  
 Europe’s sovereign debt crisis took hold at the end of 2009
after Greece’s newly-elected Pasok government said the budget
deficit was twice as big as the previous administration
disclosed. In April, Greece asked to tap an EU-IMF 110 billion-
euro ($144 billion) loan facility after being shut out of debt
markets.  
 ‘Disintegration’ Threat  
 A month later, former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker 
said he was concerned the euro may face “disintegration” after
the rescue package initially failed to stem a decline in the
euro. It’s up 4.1 percent since then as nations began
implementing austerity measures, after the currency fell 7.2
percent in the first four months of the year. The euro was
little changed at $1.3044 as of 2:29 p.m. in London.  
 Equities also advanced as peripheral nations took steps to
reduce their deficits. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  climbed 5.1
percent this month.  
 “Peripheral countries are meeting their stability
targets,” said  Christoph Rieger , the head of fixed-income
strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “By the end of the
year the picture will look quite encouraging on that count.”  
 Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said on Sept. 12
that, while his country avoided “almost certain default,” it
is necessary to stick to its commitments.  
 “Either we change Greece or we condemn it,” he said.  
 Spread Forecasts  
 Bloomberg News asked the 32 banks that act as so-called
primary dealers at German government bond auctions for their
predictions for yield spreads between the 10-year securities of
Greece, Portugal, Ireland and Spain versus benchmark bunds.
Responses came from 15 of the banks under condition they only be
used in aggregate because the forecasts haven’t been published.  
 The banks that provided responses were  Banco Santander SA ,
Bankhaus Lampe KG, Barclays Plc, Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG,
 UniCredit SpA , Commerzbank AG, Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg,
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank, ING Groep NV,
WestLB AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Bank of America
Corp., Bayerische Landesbank and HSBC.  
 Greek 10-year bonds will yield 638 basis points more than
bunds at the end of next year, from 913 on Sept. 17, according
to the survey. The spread will likely shrink to 477 basis
points, or 4.77 percentage points, in late 2012.  
 For  Ireland , the spread will dwindle to 222 basis points by
year-end 2011, and 155 in 2012, from 387. In Portugal, where the
gap finished at 366 basis points last week, investors will
likely accept a premium of 227 in 2011 and 157 a year later.  
 The  Spanish  spread will shrink to 126 basis points in 2011
and 91 in 2012, from 177 last week.  
 Narrowing Spreads  
 Spread narrowing will be modest this year with Greece at
809 basis points, Ireland at 299 basis points, Portugal at 293
points and Spain at 157, the survey showed.  
 Irish 10-year bonds fell today, sending the yield 17 basis
points higher to 6.59 percent. The Portuguese yield rose 32
basis points to 6.48 percent and the Spanish yield increased 4
basis points to 4.25 percent. The Greek 10-year yield was little
changed at 11.61 percent.  
 “There are definitely” some “opportunities in these
countries for investors with a long-term approach,” Pictet’s
Benhaim said. If you are an investor that has to mark-to-market
positions “and you have to bear the volatility then it’s a bit
trickier. Our time horizon is between three months and 12
months,” he said.  
 Credit Default Swaps  
 European bonds fell last week on renewed concern some
nations may require further government aid.  
 An index of Greek, Portuguese, Spanish and Irish credit-
default swaps, which insure against default, reached the highest
level since June last week. Yields on Irish 10-year debt rose to
the highest relative to bunds since at least 1991. The
Portuguese-German spread approached the most on record. Trading
in Greek bonds fell to 819 million euros in August from 30.8
billion euros a year earlier, the Bank of Greece said Sept. 14.  
 Irish bonds were the world’s worst-performing government
securities so far this quarter, losing 3.2 percent, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Portuguese bonds were the second-
worst and Greek debt the fourth, the indexes show.  
 “We don’t believe we are out of the woods in terms of
sovereign-debt concerns,” said  Robert Edwin Talbut , chief
investment officer at Royal London Asset Management in London.
“This is likely to remain a recurring issue for financial
markets for years to come.”  
 ‘Substantial’ Risk  
 Greece still faces a “substantial” default risk as
insolvency prevents the nation from repaying its debt when its
bailout program expires in three years,  Andrew Bosomworth , a
Munich-based fund manager at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said Sept. 6. Greece
may need to extend its EU-IMF lifeline by another three to six
years to avoid a default, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said Sept. 9.  
 “The failure to reduce risk spreads means that the public
sector bailout is not working,” according to  Mohamed A. El- Erian , chief executive officer at Pimco.  
 “It raises the risk of renewed contagion,” El-Erian, who
is based in Newport Beach, California, wrote in an opinion piece
on the company’s  website .  
 While the derivatives market is pricing in a greater chance
of default for Greece, Ireland, Spain and Portugal, the nations
are still able to sell debt.  
 ‘Very Anxious’  
 Yields fell at an auction of 4 billion euros of Spanish 10-
and 30-year debt last week, as demand for the bonds due in 2020
was 2.32 times the amount sold and the bid-to-cover ratio for
the securities maturing in 2041 was 2.1. Portugal sold bonds
this month and Greece and Ireland auctioned bills. Spanish banks
cut their reliance on ECB borrowing in August by 16 percent to
an average 109.8 billion euros per day,  Bank of Spain  data show.  
 Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said on Sept. 16 his
government is “very anxious to ensure we have a sustainable
position going forward” and there is “no complacency” in
achieving it.  
 Greece’s 30-year bonds “fully factor in the cost of a
restructuring,” said  Steven Major , London-based global head of
fixed-income research at HSBC. “The market knows that there’s
still a long way to go, but so far Greece has cut spending by
more than they planned. That’s good news.”  
 Economic Policies  
 Greece has made a “strong start” in implementing economic
policies attached to its IMF loan, a staff report said Sept. 14.
Spain’s central government  budget deficit  narrowed to 2.4
percent of GDP in the first seven months, from 4.7 percent a
year earlier, the Finance Ministry said on Aug. 31.  
 Deficit reduction may be aided by a strengthening global
economy. The German economy, Europe’s biggest, will  expand 3.4
percent  in 2010 and 2.2 percent next year, the Essen-based RWI
economic institute said Sept. 15, citing an “unexpectedly
strong” second quarter.  
 “We’re expecting growth to come through and stay
reasonably solid so toward the end of next year they will be
moving toward more sustainable levels of funding,” said  Huw Worthington , a fixed-income strategist at Barclays in London,
referring to borrowing costs in the peripheral nations.  

 

               2010          2011      2012
Greece
High           1000           900       700
Low             650           450       120
Average         809           638       477

Ireland
High            400           300       225
Low             190           150        50
Average         299           222       155

Portugal
High            370           375       250
Low             170           140        80
Average         293           227       157

Spain
High            210           250       150
Low             120            85        47
Average         157           126        91
 
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Greece's prime minister George Papandreou  
                       
                         
                           Jock Fistick/ Bloomberg 
                         
                         Europe’s sovereign debt crisis took hold at the end of 2009 after Greece’s newly-elected Pasok government said the budget deficit was twice as big as the previous administration
disclosed. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Europe’s sovereign debt crisis took hold at the end of 2009 after Greece’s newly-elected Pasok government said the budget deficit was twice as big as the previous administration
disclosed. Photographer: Jock Fistick/ Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Steven Major, global head of fixed-income research at HSBC Holdings Plc, talks about the outlook for Greek bonds and Federal Reserve asset purchases.
     He speaks with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Four months after a European Union-led bailout, Germany’s biggest bond dealers say the worst is over for the region’s most-indebted nations. Bloomberg's Sara Eisen reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Europe Debt Crisis Abates  
                       
                         
                           Kostas Tsironis/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou said on Sept. 12 that, while his country avoided “almost certain default,” it is necessary to stick to its commitments. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou said on Sept. 12 that, while his country avoided “almost certain default,” it is necessary to stick to its commitments. Photographer: Kostas Tsironis/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
