-- Gillard's Dollar Peaking as Tax Proves Aussie 27% Overvalued
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-09-20T08:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/gillard-dollar-is-peaking-as-mining-tax-proves-aussie-is-overvalued-by-27-.html

          
          
             Australia’s dollar, this quarter’s
best performing major currency, is now the most overvalued.  
 Purchasing power parity, a measure of the cost of goods
relative to other countries, shows the so-called Aussie is 27
percent too expensive, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The median estimate of strategists and economists is for
Australia’s dollar to weaken 6.8 percent by year-end, the
biggest forecast decline of 31 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 While Australia’s dollar has soared 12 percent since June,
benefitting from its ties to China’s economy, traders speculate
new Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s planned tax on mining
companies will damp demand for the nation’s assets at the same
time global economic growth decelerates. The nation’s mining
industry has enjoyed a record investment boom to feed Chinese
demand for iron and coal.  
 “If I were to pick a currency to have my money in for the
next month, it would be Australia’s, but after a month I’d pick
something else, like the U.S.,” said  John Taylor , who oversees
about $9 billion as chairman of FX Concepts LLC in New York.  
 Momentum in the Aussie may lead it to test its record high
of 98.50 U.S. cents next month before depreciating to the low
80-cent level by early 2011, Taylor said. That’s when a slowdown
in global growth will prompt investors to seek safety in the
U.S. dollar, he said. The Australian currency rose 1.1 percent
to 94.63 cents as of 9:06 a.m. in London, after strengthening
for a fifth straight week in the five days to Sept. 17, the
longest winning streak since the period ended Sept. 25, 2009.  
 ‘Greater Risk’  
 “At these levels, there’s a lot of good news in the price
for the Aussie,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at
Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., in London. “There’s greater
risk of disappointment.”  
 The median estimate of strategists and economists surveyed
by Bloomberg is for the currency to weaken to 88 U.S. cents by
year-end. The forecast is the same as in early July, even though
the Aussie has risen from about 84 cents.  
 Of the 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, only one
is forecast to do as badly as Australia’s dollar: the Danish
krone.  
 Investors are awaiting final details of a planned tax which
the government estimates will result in BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s largest mining company, Rio Tinto Group., the third
biggest, and the rest of the nation’s coal and iron ore
companies paying an extra A$10.5 billion ($9.9 billion) in tax
in the first two years.  
 ‘Jewel in the Crown’  
 Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  signaled on Sept. 8 that
final terms of the government’s planned mining tax may depend on
talks with independent lawmakers. Gillard held on to power on
Sept. 7 as the nation’s first female prime minister after
independent lawmakers and the Greens Party agreed to help her
govern following a deadlocked Aug. 21 election. Greens leader
 Bob Brown  said Sept. 15 his party wants to increase the proposed
levy and expand it to include uranium.  
 While the Aussie “has a lot of good things going for it,”
the mining tax “is something that every investor has been
watching,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge fund sales
at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “Anything that hampers
the jewel in the crown is going to catch a lot of attention.”  
 Traders’ Favorite  
 Australia’s dollar has become a favorite for traders
because of the nation’s relatively high interest rates. The
central bank has raised its benchmark borrowing rate to 4.5
percent from 3 percent over the past 12 months, as the Federal
Reserve and European Central Bank kept theirs unchanged.  
 The Aussie has passed the Swiss franc to become the world’s
fifth most-traded currency, according to the Bank for
International Settlements’ Triennial Central Bank Survey
released Sept. 1. It accounts for 7.6 percent of daily  trading 
though Australia is 1.6 percent of world gross domestic product.  
 Twenty percent of Australia’s economy depends on exports,
led by iron ore and coal to countries including China, the
nation’s largest trading partner. Links with fast-growing
economies helped it skirt a global recession and  expand  1.2
percent last quarter, the fastest pace in three years, driving
the  jobless rate  down to almost half the level of the U.S.  
 Australia’s currency may maintain its gains as long as the
Fed and the ECB keep benchmark rates at record lows to nurse
their economies’ recovery, according to  Christoph Kind , head of
asset allocation at Germany’s Frankfurt-Trust, which manages
about $20 billion. He has an “overweight” position on the
currency, meaning he expects it to outperform.  
 ‘Breathtaking’ Performance  
 “The past performance of the Aussie dollar has been
breathtaking and every attempt to go short on the currency
always failed,” said Kind. “I don’t see an immediate
turnaround as long as U.S. growth remains weak.”  
 Futures traders have added to bets that Australia’s dollar
will gain against its U.S. counterpart, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of  wagers  by hedge funds and other
large speculators on an advance compared with those on a drop
was 56,669 on Sept. 14, up from 7,246 on July 6.  
 A Credit Suisse AG  index  shows swaps traders increased to
30 percent the chance Australia’s central bank will resume
raising rates at its Oct. 5 meeting after Governor  Glenn Stevens 
said today the biggest mining boom in more than a century will
stoke the economy. The probability of an increase was 19 percent
on Sept. 17.  
 “If downside possibilities do not materialize, the task
ahead is likely to be one of managing a fairly robust upswing,”
Stevens told a forum in the regional city of Shepparton in
Victoria state. “Part of that task will, clearly, fall to
monetary policy.”  
 ‘Hawkish Rhetoric’  
 The median  forecast  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News is for policy makers to leave rates unchanged next month.  
 “That’s reasonably hawkish rhetoric but it’s not
dissimilar to what we already know,” said  Sue Trinh , a Hong
Kong-based senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada.
“We think the RBA is on hold for the rest of the year so there
could be a risk for the Aussie in coming weeks if those
expectations are proved wrong.”  
 The Aussie reached a two-year high against the greenback on
Sept. 17 amid speculation the Fed will increase the supply of
dollars to buy Treasury securities to keep borrowing costs low
and sustain growth, a practice known as quantitative easing.  
 U.S. central bankers are scheduled to meet tomorrow to
decide monetary policy. A survey by Jersey City, New Jersey-
based Ried Thunberg ICAP of money managers overseeing $1.34
trillion found that 43 percent of respondents expect the Fed to
announce renewed quantitative easing; the rest don’t.  
 Paring Bets  
 Fed purchases of additional securities may ultimately be
bad for Australia’s dollar because it would signal that global
growth is slowing, leading traders to decrease their bullish
bets on the currency and seek havens, according to  Joseph Capurso , a foreign-exchange strategist at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia. The Sydney-based bank is the nation’s largest lender.  
 “More U.S. quantitative easing means a weak U.S.
economy,” he said. “Ultimately, that’s a softer world economy,
which makes it hard for commodity prices and commodity
currencies to go up. It’s a difficult environment for Aussie.”  
 The International Monetary Fund’s  John Lipsky , the agency’s
second highest-ranking official, said last week in a speech the
global economic recovery “has slowed somewhat.” Australia’s
currency weakened 9.5 percent amid the worldwide recession in
2008, its worst performance since 1997, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency indexes.  
 Europe Concerns  
 Growth in Europe may falter as nations including Greece,
Spain and Portugal trim spending after a budget deficit crisis
forced European officials to craft a 750 billion euro ($979
billion) aid package in May. The region’s growth may slow to 1.4
percent next year from 1.5 percent in 2010, according to a
Bloomberg poll of economists.  
 Concerns about Europe’s solvency are intensifying, pushing
up market measures for risk to “at or near danger levels” for
peripheral European nations,  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief
executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in
an opinion piece on the company’s website. Pimco runs the
world’s biggest bond fund and the report was originally
published on the Financial Times website.  
 The Australian dollar will peak in October and “by that
time Europe is going to be rotting,” said Taylor at FX
concepts. “Australia will do very poorly between the second
half of October and January-February.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard  
                       
                         
                           Torsten Blackwood/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard. Photographer: Torsten Blackwood/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Joseph Capurso, a currency strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation's largest lender, talks about the outlook for the Australian dollar.
     The currency traded near a two-year high before its central bank tomorrow releases minutes of this month’s policy meeting when it said interest rates were appropriate "for the time being." Capurso talks with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television's "First Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
