-- Pimco Buys Bank Debt as Basis Goes Negative: Credit Markets
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-09-20T16:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/pimco-seeks-bank-bonds-as-yield-swap-basis-turns-negative-credit-markets.html

          
          
             The cost of protecting U.S.
corporate bonds from default has fallen below yield premiums by
the most since January as concern ebbs that the world’s largest
economy will lapse back into a recession, giving Pacific
Investment Management Co. more reason to snap up bank debt.  
 Gaps between credit-default swaps and bonds have widened to
0.25 percentage point from less than 0.02 percentage point about
three months ago, according to Citigroup Inc. Pimco, manager of
the world’s largest bond fund, is finding as much as 1
percentage point of extra yield even after paying to insure bank
debt, said  Mark Kiesel , a managing director at the  Newport
Beach , California-based firm.  
 Banks are “rebuilding capital very quickly,” Kiesel said.
With the firms becoming safer credit bets and Pimco finding so-
called negative basis trades with bank bonds paying excess
yields of 0.8 percentage point to 1 percentage point, “those
are two catalysts for spread compression,” he said.  
 U.S. central bankers may wait beyond their meeting tomorrow
to announce additional steps to sustain the expansion, Pimco
Chief Executive Mohamed A. El-Erian wrote on the company’s
 website . The  Federal Reserve  will cut its growth forecasts, El-
Erian said. Still, home sales probably increased in August, a
sign the real estate market is stabilizing, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The spreads Pimco is identifying in bank bonds and in the
broader market compare with the average difference of more than
2.5 percentage points after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. two years ago, just before bonds posted a record
rally. The record gaps emerged as credit markets seized up,
causing bond spreads to soar while demand for swap protection
failed to keep up.  
 ‘Capital Scarce’  
 An increase in negative basis is attracting buyers that
seek to profit by buying the debt while also purchasing credit
swaps.  
 “When capital is scarce, the basis becomes more
negative,” said Alberto Gallo, a New York-based strategist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. He said the basis should narrow as
monetary policy and regulation reduce risk in the financial
system and stabilize funding costs.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, DuPont Co., the third-biggest
U.S. chemical maker, may sell debt in a three-part offering as
soon as today, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The Wilmington, Delaware-based company may issue
notes due in January 2021 in a benchmark offering as well as
$300 million each of debt maturing in January 2016 and January
2041, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. Benchmark offerings are typically at least
$500 million.  
 Swaps Index Roll  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
benchmark credit-default swaps index gauging corporate credit
risk, rose as banks and money managers began moving trades into
a new series of the index. Series 15 of the Markit CDX traded at
107.75 basis points as of 11:36 a.m. in New York, 5.25 basis
points wider than Series 14, according to broker Phoenix
Partners Group.  
 The index typically climbs as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. New versions of credit
swaps indexes are created every six months to replace companies
that no longer meet criteria for inclusion, such as credit
ratings.  
 Universal Health Dropped  
   Universal Health Services Inc ., the operator of more than
100 U.S. medical facilities, was dropped from Series 15 of the
CDX investment-grade index after  Standard &amp; Poor’s  and Fitch
Ratings cut the company’s debt ranking to speculative grade.  CA
Inc ., the second-largest maker of software for  mainframe
computers , was added.  
 European and Asian credit swaps indexes rolled into their
14th series. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of
swaps on debt sold by 15 countries rolled into its fourth
series.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold company bonds
rather than government debt was unchanged at 171 basis points,
or 1.71 percentage points, on Sept. 17, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields fell to 3.573 percent from 3.589 percent on the previous
day.  
 Fed Meeting  
 Tomorrow, the Fed meets to set monetary policy. A survey of
bond investors overseeing $1.34 trillion by Ried Thunberg ICAP,
a unit of the world’s largest inter-dealer broker, found that 57
percent of respondents don’t expect the Fed to announce
additional asset purchases at the meeting, while 43 percent
expect policy makers to say they’re resuming quantitative
easing.  
 The widening gap between U.S. corporate bond spreads and
the cost of credit swaps on the debt may be exacerbated by the
highest bond prices in six years. As prices rise above 100 cents
on the dollar, the cost to hedge against default also rises,
eroding the potential excess yield, Goldman Sachs’s Gallo said.  
 “Higher prices also make it less attractive to enter new
trades, since you have to buy more CDS protection to hedge the
full value of the bonds,” he said.  
 Assenagon Asset Management, which last year started a fund
to profit from the basis between bonds and credit swaps, is
still finding attractive gaps at the cusp of investment-grade
and high-yield and in European government debt, said Jochen Felsenheimer, Assenagon’s Munich-based co-head of credit.  
 Pimco Favors Banks  
 “The fact that negative basis is still available just
means there are still structural distortions in the market,” he
said. “So it is an indication that the crisis is still there --
not as obvious as was probably the case two years ago, but it is
not gone.”  
 High-yield debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 The biggest gaps among U.S. bank bonds are in debt due
between 2017 and 2020, said Pimco’s Kiesel, who in March called
bank securities the best investment in credit markets.  
 “The fundamentals are turning more positive,” he said.
“The banks are basically not making as many loans, so there’s
not as much need for issuance. Deposits are very high. So the
banks don’t need the cash. The rollover risk for U.S. banks is
very small, particularly relative to U.K. and European banks.”  
   Bank of America Corp .’s $3.5 billion of 5.75 percent bonds
due in 2017 last week were paying an asset-swap spread over
benchmark  interest rates  that’s 99 basis points more than the
161 basis points it costs annually for seven-year credit swaps
on the debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The gap has
doubled since January, when it was as low as 44 basis points.  
 “It makes sense as a relative value trade,” said  Mikhail Foux , a credit strategist at Citigroup in New York. “Overall,
it makes a lot more sense to be long cash right now and have CDS
overlays as hedges.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in  New York  at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Mohamed El-Erian, CEO of Pacific Investment Management Co.  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co. (PIMCO). 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co. (PIMCO). Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Scott Mather, head of global portfolio management at Pacific Investment Management Co., talks about Japan's debt position and investment strategy.
     Mather speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 13 (Bloomberg) -- Anthony Crescenzi, a strategist at Pacific Investment Management Co., discusses Basel bank capital requirements, the outlook for stocks and bonds, and the potential impact of the mid-term elections on markets.
     Crescenzi talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
