-- Rolls-Royce Eyes Expansion of $245,000 Deluxe Ghost Line
-- Chris Reiter
-- 2010-09-20T16:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/rolls-royce-eyes-expansion-of-245-000-ghost-model-line-as-demand-soars.html

          
          
             Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd.  plans
to expand the $245,000 Ghost model line that went on sale last
year as  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG ’s ultra-luxury nameplate
aims to double sales in 2010.  
 “I’m quite confident that we’re going to see a Ghost
derivative to come,” Rolls-Royce Chief Executive Officer
 Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes  said in an interview at the carmaker’s
headquarters in Goodwood, England. “There’s still a lot of
potential in the market” for a less formal Rolls model.  
 Rolls-Royce, which competes with  Volkswagen AG ’s Bentley
and  Daimler AG ’s Maybach, is known for its hand-craftsmanship
and what enthusiasts call a “magic carpet” ride because of the
car’s smooth on-the-road handling. Munich-based BMW bought the
rights to Rolls-Royce cars for 45 million pounds ($70 million)
in 1998 and re-launched the brand at a new factory in 2003.  
 The Ghost is  Rolls-Royce ’s second product line after the
stately Phantom, which starts at $380,000. Even with its cheaper
price tag, the smaller model, which is 5.4 meters (17.7 feet) in
length, will boost operating profit, Mueller-Oetvoes said.  
 The Ghost has spurred growth for the exclusive marque after
the financial crisis depressed sales 17 percent in 2009. Rolls-
Royce delivered 1,467 cars through August, already surpassing
the record since BMW took over of 1,212 in all of 2008. The
company aims to sell at least 2,000 cars in 2010, after
delivering 1,002 last year.  
 Embroidered Eagle  
 “Rolls-Royce has always been a really super premium brand
and BMW has kept them at the top of the market,” said  Jonathan Poskitt , an Oxford, England-based analyst at JD Power &
Associates. “The rich are still rich, and that end of the
market is driven in some sense by what models are available.”  
 Rolls-Royce’s factory, which occupies a corner of the
aristocratic estate that hosts the annual Festival of Speed
motoring event, currently produces about 12 Ghosts a day and 3
Phantoms, spokesman Andrew Ball said.  
 Production moved to Goodwood after  Rolls-Royce Group Plc 
sold the Bentley brand and the Crewe factory, where both cars
had been built, to VW, a deal that left BMW short of a
production site for Rolls-Royce cars.  
 Workers  spend 17 days to make a typical Phantom, fitting 50
square meters (540 square feet) of leather onto the seats and
consoles. Time is added for special items. For instance, one
customer requested an embroidered eagle head on the headrests,
which took 32 hours to perfect.  
 “You can get machines to do this work, but it takes the
soul out of the car,” said Timothy Harman, a manager in Rolls-
Royce’s leather shop, which employs about 130 people.  
 $19,600 Picnic Hamper  
 While Phantom demand has yet to recover to pre-recession
levels, more customers are adding their own features, such as a
15,000-euro ($19,600), four-person picnic hamper. The bespoke
customization program won’t be open for the Ghost until next
year. Buyers have dreamt up options such as leather dog mats,
diamond-encrusted emblems and wood veneer from a specific tree.  
 Buoying demand for luxury cars, Wall Street firms are
adding jobs for the first time in two years. Senior managers,
excluding those whose pay is disclosed in company proxies, may
get a 5 percent to 10 percent increase in bonuses this year,
according to August estimates by compensation consultant Johnson
Associates Inc.  
 Bentley  lifted deliveries by 11 percent to 2,489 vehicles
in the first half. Daimler aimed to sell more than 1,000
Maybachs a year when it reintroduced the 1930s-era marque in
2002. Sales topped out at 600 cars in 2003 and  Daimler  delivered
200 Maybach vehicles to customers last year. A Maybach starts at
about $350,000 and its Zeppelin goes for more than $600,000.  
 22-Year Veteran  
 BMW  rose  1.72 euros, or 3.6 percent, to 39.13 euros in
Frankfurt, the biggest gain since July 13. It’s the second-
biggest winner today in Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index , which
added 1.4 percent.  
 The financial crisis has added to demand for customization
on Rolls-Royce interiors as the wealthy seek to make their
consumption less conspicuous, the CEO said. Items include a roof
liner that simulates a starlit sky and embroidery on headrests.  
 “We see quite a lot of bespoke in the interior of the car
-- much more than in the past -- so something that is a bit more
disguised and not perceivable by everybody looking at the
cars,” said Mueller-Oetvoes, a 22-year  BMW  veteran who took
over as Rolls-Royce CEO in April. “Everybody looks for some
details that make the car his or her personal car.”  
 Mueller-Oetvoes was in charge of brand and product
development for Mini between 2000 and 2003, overseeing the
relaunch of the small car. He headed marketing and branding for
BMW from 2004 and took over global product management in 2008.  
 Chinese Expansion  
 The CEO said he is awaiting more feedback from customers
before deciding on a timeframe and style for future Ghost
derivatives.  
 Much of Rolls-Royce’s growth has come from China, which
will surpass the U.K. this year as its second-largest market
after the U.S. Mueller-Oetvoes plans to selectively add dealers
in China, India, the Middle East and the U.S. to further boost
sales. Still, Rolls-Royce will remain exclusive.  
 “We will definitely not end off in the tens of thousands
of units,” Mueller-Oetvoes said. “That’s not the right
strategy for us. Rolls-Royce always needs to stay very
exclusive. We only build a car when there is a customer behind
it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd CEO Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes  
                       
                         
                           David Levenson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         ``I'm quite confident that we're going to see a Ghost derivative to come,'' Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes said in an interview. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     ``I'm quite confident that we're going to see a Ghost derivative to come,'' Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes said in an interview. Photographer: David Levenson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Anastasia Haydulina reports on sales growth and bespoke production methods at Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Rolls-Royce Ghost automobile sits on display on the second press day of the Frankfurt Motor Show, in Frankfurt, on Sept. 16, 2009. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Rolls-Royce Ghost automobile sits on display on the second press day of the Frankfurt Motor Show, in Frankfurt, on Sept. 16, 2009. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       An Employee Works On A Rolls-Royce Automobile  
                       
                         
                           David Levenson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Rolls-Royce's factory, which occupies a corner of the aristocratic estate that hosts the annual Festival of Speed motoring event, currently produces about 12 Ghosts a day and 3 Phantoms, according to spokesman Andrew Ball. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Rolls-Royce's factory, which occupies a corner of the aristocratic estate that hosts the annual Festival of Speed motoring event, currently produces about 12 Ghosts a day and 3 Phantoms, according to spokesman Andrew Ball. Photographer: David Levenson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
