-- Stock Buybacks Surge as Companies Borrow for Share Repurchases
-- Alexis Xydias
-- 2010-09-20T20:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/stock-buybacks-surge-as-companies-borrow-cheaper-debt-for-share-purchases.html

          
          
             Record-low interest rates are
stoking the biggest increase in U.S. share buybacks ever.  
 American companies announced $55.9 billion in repurchases
since June, data compiled by Birinyi Associates Inc. show. That
adds to $93.5 billion in the second quarter and $108.3 billion
during the first three months of the year, compared with $125
billion in all of 2009. Corporations are using debt to pay for
buybacks after the average yield on U.S. investment grade bonds
fell to an all-time low of  3.70 percent  last month, data from
London-based Barclays Plc show.  
 Companies from  Microsoft Corp.  to PepsiCo Inc. and Hewlett-
Packard Co. are taking advantage of low-cost financing,
purchasing their stock to boost per-share earnings at a time
when the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index trades at a 24 percent
discount to its average  valuation  since 1954. At the same time,
choosing buybacks may show executives are too concerned about
the economy to invest in new projects or make acquisitions.  
 “It’s so cheap to do it now in the bond market: issue
debt, fix their cost of capital, then shrink the number of
shares outstanding,” said  James Swanson , chief investment
strategist at Boston-based MFS Investment Management, which
oversees about $197 billion. “The markets are almost calling
for them to do it.”  
 Fivefold Rise  
 U.S. companies have announced $258 billion in buybacks so
far this year, compared with $52 billion in the first three
quarters of 2009, according to data compiled by Birinyi. The
almost fivefold increase is the largest for any January-to-
September period since at least 2000, when the Westport,
Connecticut-based research firm started tracking the data.  
 Buybacks let firms boost per-share  profits  by reducing
their equity base and may indicate executives find their stock
undervalued. Evidence that businesses are parting with their
record  cash  shows concern the economy will slip into its second
recession in three years is diminishing.  
 “Levering a balance sheet is a good idea if you want to
expand your company,” said  Hayes Miller , the Boston-based head
of asset allocation in North America at Baring Asset Management,
which manages about $44 billion. “You don’t do that unless you
feel secure about 2011. It may just be the corporate outlook for
2011 is better than you would gather from economic news.”  
 Microsoft will sell debt to pay for  dividends  and stock
buybacks, a person familiar with the matter said last week. The
Redmond, Washington-based software maker could issue as much as
$6 billion in debt without putting its  credit rating  at risk,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Takeovers  
 Peter Wootton, a Microsoft spokesman, declined to comment.  
 PepsiCo  in Purchase, New York, has sold $4.25 billion of
bonds in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company said in January that it aimed to use debt proceeds to
finance the takeover of two bottlers and for other corporate
purposes that may include buybacks.  
 The company authorized a plan on March 15 to repurchase as
much as $15 billion in stock over three years. With the
acquisition now complete,  PepsiCo  is able to increase buybacks
that were postponed during the negotiations, according to
spokesman  Dave DeCecco .  
 The maker of Doritos and Mountain Dew predicted on July 20
that  earnings  per share will grow 11 percent to 13 percent.
Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG estimated 3 to 4 percentage
points of that will be from share repurchases. Buybacks may
total $4.4 billion in 2010, Pepsi said on July 20. That’s 4.3
percent of its average  market value  this year.  
 Boosting Debt  
 HP boosted short- and long-term borrowing by $4.18 billion
between January and July, Bloomberg data show. The week before
the Palo Alto, California-based company sold $3 billion in bonds
on Sept. 8, it added $10 billion to its plan for share
repurchases, an increase to the $4.9 billion already authorized.
Buybacks are among potential uses for the debt proceeds,
according to a Sept. 9  filing . Anything listed in a government
filing is a possibility, said  Gina Tyler , a HP spokeswoman.  
 “Oftentimes, you’ll see a debt issuance almost
simultaneously with a share buyback announcement,” said  Guy Lebas , chief fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “Even though there’s no
explicit connection, it only takes a little bit of common sense
to realize the relationship.”  
 Completing the plan would reduce HP’s  stock  outstanding by
14 percent, based on the average price in 2010. The largest
personal-computer maker said Aug. 19 that it bought back 55
million shares in the fiscal third quarter, prompting analysts
at Susquehanna Financial Group LLP to raise the  profit  estimate
for the following period by 1 cent to $1.27 a share.  
 Weakening Growth  
 U.S. companies are boosting share buybacks as economic
growth weakens from 5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009, the
biggest increase since 2006. Gross domestic product may rise at
an annual pace of 1.9 percent in the three months ended Sept.
30, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 63
economists.  
 “If that’s the best use of companies’ cash, then that
really doesn’t tell a great story about how corporations are
feeling for the near future,” said  John Canally , an investment
strategist and economist at LPL Financial Corp., which oversees
$276.9 billion in Boston. “Things aren’t terrible, but they
aren’t great either.”  
 Below Record  
 Announced buybacks this year are about 70 percent below the
record $863 billion pledged in 2007, Birinyi data show. While
the S&P 500 trades at  12.4  times forecast earnings for the next
12 months, compared with a 56-year average of 16.4 times
reported profit, low valuations haven’t been enough to spur an
equity rally.  
 The S&P 500 rose 1.5 percent to 1,142.71 today, the highest
level since May 13. It’s up 2.5 percent in 2010 and down 6.1
percent from its April high. The index gained 1.5 percent last
 week  amid speculation Microsoft will sell debt for share
buybacks and after Oracle Corp. beat earnings estimates.  
 Decreasing price-earnings ratios and record low interest
rates are spurring executives to raise money in credit markets.
U.S. companies have sold $83.4 billion in new stock in 2010, the
lowest level for the first nine months of any year since 2005,
based on data compiled by Bloomberg. At the same time, companies
sold $786 billion in both high-yield and investment-grade U.S.-
dollar denominated debt after $1.23 trillion last year.  
 Fed’s Rate  
 The Federal Reserve has held its target rate for overnight
loans between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since cutting it in
December 2008. The lowest benchmark borrowing costs in the U.S.
and the Fed’s purchase of bonds pushed the average yield on U.S.
investment grade debt to 3.70 percent last month, Barclays says.  
 As yields sank, the relative return for holding dividend-
paying stocks grew. Last month, more companies in the S&P 500
paid dividends that exceeded the average interest rate on
corporate bonds than any time in at least 15 years, Bloomberg
data show.  
 The  level  of debt outstanding among American companies
outside the financial industry increased 1 percent between April
and the end of June to an all-time high of $7.26 trillion, a
second quarterly advance, according to Federal Reserve data
released on Sept. 17.  
 While industrial and consumer companies are paying down
loans, computer makers, energy producers and utilities in the
S&P 500 are boosting borrowings to record levels, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Technology makers in the S&P 500 owe
$123 billion, and oil and  power  companies had long- and short-
term debt of $204 billion and $324 billion at the end of the
second quarter.  
 Free Cash Flow  
 Per-share free cash flow in the S&P 500, or earnings minus
capital expenses, rose to $102.01 this quarter, the highest
level since at least 2000, according to Bloomberg data.
Excluding banks, brokerages and insurance companies, S&P 500
companies generated $682.2 billion in cash and near-cash items
last quarter, the data show.  
 “Corporations are finally feeling a little bit more
comfortable and realizing that their own shares are cheap and
financing is very cheap, so why not issue some debt and buy back
stock?” said  David Kelly , who helps oversee about $445 billion
as chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds in New York.
“That’s a great way of distributing cash to shareholders and
boosting stock prices.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lynn Thomasson  in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net ;
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       MFS Investment Management's James Swanson  
                       
                         
                           Michael Fein/Bloomberg 
                         
                         “It’s so cheap to do it now in the bond market: issue debt, fix their cost of capital, then shrink the number of shares outstanding,” said James Swanson, chief investment strategist at Boston-based MFS Investment Management. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     “It’s so cheap to do it now in the bond market: issue debt, fix their cost of capital, then shrink the number of shares outstanding,” said James Swanson, chief investment strategist at Boston-based MFS Investment Management. Photographer: Michael Fein/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Doug Cliggott, U.S. equity strategist with Credit Suisse, and Andrew Keene, an independent options trader, talk about the performance of the U.S. stock market and the outlook for equities.
     Cliggott and Keene also discuss corporate use of cash for dividends and acquisitions. They talk with Carol Massar, Matt Miller, Adam Johnson and Dominic Chu on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
