-- Thomas Weisel Banks on His Reputation to Bring Deals to Stifel
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-09-21T22:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-19/weisel-banks-on-his-silicon-valley-reputation-to-generate-deals-for-stifel.html
Thomas Weisel  is betting that his
four decades as a Silicon Valley dealmaker can help him build
the Midwestern investment bank  Stifel Financial Corp.  into a
bigger force in acquisitions and initial public offerings.  Weisel, 69, took the role of Stifel’s co-chairman last
month after the company bought his old firm, Thomas Weisel
Partners Group Inc., for almost $200 million. His new job:
parlaying his connections into more underwriting and advisory
deals for his employer. Stifel makes much of its money helping
customers issue stock, raise debt, and buy and sell companies.  His challenge is building Stifel’s recognition among Bay
Area venture capitalists, private-equity managers and
executives, many of whom haven’t worked with the St. Louis-based
bank. He also faces a drought of IPOs. While mergers have picked
up, many companies prefer to use the biggest investment banks,
such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Morgan Stanley.  “I’ve been doing this for 40 years,” Weisel said in an
interview at his 37th-floor office in San Francisco. “We can
have a strategic conversation that any CEO or any board wants to
have. We have foot soldiers out in the field talking to both
small companies and the big ones.”  ‘Four Horsemen’  It’s a reputation Weisel has built up since at least 1971,
when he helped start Robertson, Colman, Siebel & Weisel. In
1978, Weisel took half the San Francisco company and renamed it
Montgomery Securities, which helped shepherd dot-com IPOs,
including  Yahoo! Inc. ’s 1996 offering. Along with local rivals
Hambrecht & Quist and Robertson, Stephens & Co., Montgomery
handled a boom in tech deals in the 1980s and 1990s.  Together with Alex. Brown & Sons, the firms made up what
Robertson Stephens founder  Sandy Robertson  called “the four
horsemen” of West Coast technology finance. Eventually, they
were all purchased by commercial banks.  Weisel sold Montgomery Securities in 1997 to what would
become  Bank of America Corp.  A year later, he founded Thomas
Weisel Partners. The firm was one of the chief underwriters of
Crocs Inc.’s IPO in 2006, advised  Nuance Communications Inc. ’s
follow-on stock offerings in 2003 and 2008, and last year
advised Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. in the $2.3 billion
purchase of drugmaker Sepracor Inc.  ‘Stuffing’ Probe  It hasn’t all been smooth sailing. In May, his company said
it was facing a probe that alleged a former employee was
“stuffing” $15.7 million of securities into client accounts
without getting their permission. Shares of his firm also
tumbled over the previous four years, hurt by a slump in
dealmaking and the shift of investors to electronic trading
platforms. Before the Stifel takeover was announced, the stock
was down 82 percent from its 2006 high of $23.66.  Stifel, founded as a securities firm in St. Louis in 1890,
focused on Midwestern customers for most of its history. The
company was one of the first to arrange financing for  Emerson
Electric Co. , the St. Louis-based manufacturer of electrical
components, and Oklahoma’s Marlend Oil, which eventually became
part of ConocoPhillips, according to  Stifel’s website .  Weisel prides himself on understanding the dynamics of
technology, consumer and health care -- knowledge that was
mostly absent at Stifel, which has catered to financial
services, industrial, aerospace and education markets.  Growth Areas  “We can’t be the kind of firm we want to be without being
in tech, consumer and health care,” Stifel Chief Executive
Officer  Ron Kruszewski  told analysts in April, when announcing
the Thomas Weisel Partners acquisition. “It expands us into
these key growth sectors of the global economy.”  For now, Stifel remains a small participant in those
markets. Even including Thomas Weisel Partners deals, the
company would rank 30th this year among advisers in the
technology, health-care and consumer industries, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  His rivals include  Frank Quattrone , CEO of San Francisco-
based Qatalyst Partners, who advised 3Par Inc. in its
acquisition by  Hewlett-Packard Co.  Two New York-based advisory
firms, Moelis & Co. and Lazard Ltd., also vie for deals.  The biggest competition comes from the marquee investment
banks, with Goldman Sachs at the top of the list. Smaller banks
have a better shot consulting on merger deals than IPOs, said
 Ted Driscoll , technology partner for Claremont Creek Ventures, a
venture capital firm in Oakland, California.  Local and Familiar  “When you’re talking about an IPO, you want the reach of a
Goldman,” Driscoll said. “If it’s an M&A, that’s different. We
would rather deal with people who are smaller, local, familiar
to us, and know the space that our companies are looking to be
acquired in.”  Weisel’s office is a showcase of his outside interests,
decorated in modern art, skiing memorabilia and Tour de France
jerseys. He has supported the  San Francisco Museum of Modern
Art , the U.S. Ski and Snowboard Team Foundation and  Lance Armstrong ’s racing team. Weisel is an athlete himself: He tried
out for the Olympic speed-skating team in 1959, and competed in
skiing and cycling events for decades.  Weisel, who grew up in Milwaukee, graduated from Stanford
University in 1963. He got his MBA from Harvard Business School
before returning to the West Coast to join William Hutchinson &
Co. as one of the original employees, the first of several
securities firms Weisel helped build during his career.  Weisel, who’s been married and divorced three times, has
three sons and two daughters.  ‘Where We Live’  At his current job, Weisel is reaching out to business
leaders, seeking deals with the world’s biggest technology
companies and venture capitalists, he said.  “We are selling companies every week or every month to
IBM, to  Cisco , to Oracle, to  Microsoft  and to EMC,” he said.
“The VCs want to know: Where are the $300 million, $400 million
and $500 million deals? And that’s where we live. We know all of
the transactions.”  Robert Weiler , the former CEO of Phase Forward Inc., tapped
Weisel to help sell his company.  Oracle Corp.  agreed to pay $685
million for the Waltham, Massachusetts-based business in April.
Years earlier, Weiler was taken with Weisel’s expertise.  “I met him in 2002, when I first joined Phase Forward as
CEO, and he visited us as an emerging company,” Weiler said.
“He came in and said, ‘Let me tell you about your industry.’ He
knew about our space, our competitors and the challenges we
face.”  Phase Forward  Weisel and his bankers went on to handle Phase Forward’s
IPO and secondary stock sale, and advised them on five
acquisitions, Weiler said.  Weisel relies on that kind of knowledge to win business,
said  Dick Kramlich , general partner and co-founder of venture
firm  New Enterprise Associates  in Menlo Park, California.  “Thom knows the major movers, cold,” Kramlich said in an
interview. “And they know that if Thom gives you his word, he
will die trying. He will get something public, get a merger,
iron out a problem.”  Now Weisel is counting on transferring that reputation to
 Stifel . That’s what’s driving him to keep working, years past
retirement age.  “Why walk away?” he said. “I’d like, over the next five
or 10 years, to have Stifel inherit all of the goodwill we’ve
built. That’s the motivating factor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net  