-- Client consent at center of Citigroup insider case
-- By  Michael Perry
-- Fri Mar 23, 2007 5:35am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/23/businesspro-australia-citigroup-dc-idUSSYD10240620070323

 

 SYDNEY  (Reuters) - An insider trading case starting on 
Monday against Citigroup ( C.N ) is not aimed at preventing 
investment banks from proprietary trading in the shares of a 
client's takeover target, Australian regulators say. 

  The case, which is being closely watched internationally, 
deals with how investment banks separate their trading and 
merger advisory businesses and centers on a chat between two 
traders.  Authorities allege a brief conversation on a Sydney street 
led a Citigroup trader to believe his firm was involved in the 
A$6.3 billion ($5.1 billion) takeover of stevedoring firm 
Patrick by rival Toll Holdings Ltd. ( TOL.AX ) in 2005.  The trader, then in possession of "inside information" says 
the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC), 
sold a parcel of Patrick shares later that day, breaching 
insider trading laws.  ASIC has charged Citigroup Australia with two insider 
trading offences and a series of conflict of interest charges 
relating to trades in port-cargo handler Patrick.  The regulator said in its opening statement, already 
registered with the Federal Court in Sydney, that investment 
banks are entitled to proprietary trading -- trading on their 
own behalf -- as long as they have their client's permission.  "If the informed consent of the client to that trading is 
obtained, no difficulty will arise," said the ASIC statement, 
obtained from Citigroup.  "Without such informed consent, a bank is likely to run 
into a series of rapidly evolving conflicts of interest," said
  ASIC.  The charges are civil, not criminal, and no individuals 
have been charged. Citigroup Australia has rejected the 
charges, and said its "Chinese Walls" -- internal barriers to 
secure confidential information -- were not breached.  Citigroup has said it believes the Australian regulator 
wants to prevent investment banks from proprietary trading from 
the date they accept an advisory mandate with a client.  Citigroup Chief Executive Chuck Prince has worked in recent 
years to reform business practices and ethics after a series of 
scandals cost the bank billions of dollars and alarmed 
regulators.  The bank agreed to pay $4.6 billion to settle lawsuits over 
its roles in the collapses of Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc., 
and was fined over a multi-billion-euro bond trade in 2004.  Citigroup Australia advised on corporate takeovers worth 
about $41 billion last year, making it Australia's fourth 
busiest deal broker, according to data compiler Dealogic.
  CITIGROUP REJECTS CHARGES  In an earlier statement to the court, ASIC said Citigroup 
conducted "insider trading" on August 19, 2005 when a trader 
bought 1.14 million Patrick shares, but later sold Patrick 
shares after being told by his boss to stop trading in Patrick.  Citigroup in its opening statement said the trader was told 
to stop buying Patrick shares, but rejected the insider trading 
charges, adding the trader had denied making the assumption 
that Citigroup was acting for Toll in a takeover of Patrick.  It also said that if the trader had inside information on a 
takeover target he would have bought, not sold, shares.  "It would be counter productive to sell some shares...but 
that is the substance of the first insider trading claim," 
Citigroup said in its statement.  ASIC and Citigroup also disagree on whether Citigroup had a 
fiduciary duty to Toll at the time of the proprietary trading.  ASIC said Citigroup had a fiduciary duty to its client Toll 
and its failure to inform Toll of its proprietary trading was 
"misleading and deceptive."  "Citigroup was obliged not to allow itself to be placed in 
positions of actual or potential conflict. The existence of 
those conflicts shows that Citigroup did not have adequate 
arrangements in place to prevent the conflicts from arising," 
ASIC said.  ASIC said Citigroup's failure to get Toll's consent to 
trade in Patrick shares led to its Chinese Walls being breached 
and insider trading occurring.  "The vice of insider trading lies not only in its nature as 
such but as a very real manifestation of the difficulties of 
proprietary trading in the target of a client without first 
having obtained the client's consent," said ASIC.  ($1=A$1.24)