-- Earnings Growth Drives Me to These Five Stocks: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2010-01-19T02:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-18/earnings-growth-drives-me-to-these-five-stocks-john-dorfman.html

          
          
             Lots of companies are showing
improved profits these days, but only a few can boast that their
profits doubled in the latest quarter from the previous year.  
 For this column, I screened about 1,700 U.S. stocks with a
market value of $1 billion or more, and found about 100 that can
make that claim.  
 By no means would I buy all of these stocks. Some are too
indebted. Others sell for a high multiple of earnings or have
business strategies that leave me skeptical. Yet several seem to
me to have investment merit.  
 My favorite in the group is Merck & Co. The Whitehouse
Station, New Jersey, pharmaceutical company earned $3.4 billion
in the quarter ended Sept. 30, compared with $1.1 billion in the
same quarter of 2008.  
 Merck’s appeal starts with its gargantuan pretax profit
margin of more than 41 percent. From there I move on to its 4
percent dividend yield, which is amply covered by earnings. Yes,
the company hasn’t increased its quarterly dividend of 38 cents
since 2004, but unlike many others, Merck didn’t need to reduce
or eliminate it during the recession.  
 Then there’s growth, the very quality that detractors say
drug stocks don’t have. As with many of its peers, Merck saw
earnings decline from 2003 through 2007. However, earnings more
than doubled in 2008 from 2007’s depressed level. Estimated
earnings for 2009, at $3.29 a share, seem to me to justify a
share price around $49, or $10 above recent quotes.  
 Merck’s Strengths  
 Another criticism often leveled at pharmaceutical companies
is that they have many important drugs going off patent (this
part is true) and that they will be unable to come up with new
blockbuster drugs to replace them (false, in my opinion). Merck
has about 47 drugs in the latter phases of development,
including ones it inherited through its acquisition of Schering-
Plough Corp. in November, according to its Web site.  
 Merck shares are up about 90 percent since I recommended
them on March 9, coincidentally the day the U.S. stock market
bottomed. The shares are not cheap by every measure, but they
sell for 12 times earnings, a valuation I find attractive.  
 Lancaster Colony Corp. stands out in this group because it
is completely debt-free. The Columbus, Ohio, company makes
specialty food products, glassware and candles -- the sort of
items that make a nice gift for your aunt and uncle at Christmas
time.  
 Lancaster Colony earned $28 million in the September
quarter, up from $11 million in the same quarter a year ago.
Chief Executive Officer John B. Gerlach Jr. owns more than
900,000 shares of the stock, or about 3 percent of the company,
a situation I like to see.  
 Few Followers  
 Only four analysts cover Lancaster Colony. They split
evenly between “buy” and “hold” ratings. That, too, is a
situation I like to see, since some academic research suggests
that under-followed stocks perform better than heavily
researched ones.  
 The company just increased its quarterly payout to 30 cents
a share, from 28 cents. In my opinion, Lancaster could afford to
boost the dividend even higher -- and should.  
 Chubb Corp., a property and casualty insurance company out
of Warren, New Jersey, is next up. It notched profits of $596
million in the September quarter, compared with $264 million a
year earlier.  
 Chubb shares are up about 25 percent since I recommended
them in May. Yet they are hardly pricey, trading at eight times
earnings and only a little over book value (corporate net worth
per share).  
 Profits Climb  
 Chubb made close to a 12 percent profit on underwriting
last year. That is, the premiums it collects exceeded claims (58
percent of premiums) and company expenses (30 percent). By
contrast, many insurance companies break even or worse on
underwriting and try to make up for it with investment income.  
 I also like Unum Group. This Chattanooga, Tennessee,
company specializes in group and individual disability
insurance.  
 Unum’s profits rose to $221 million in the September
quarter from $108 million a year earlier. Frankly, this
surprised me, because traditionally, disability insurers face
rising claims during times of recession and high unemployment.  
 I give Unum credit for navigating a difficult environment.
Also, I like its low valuations -- eight times earnings and less
than book value. However, profits, while improved, still are not
robust: Return on stockholders’ equity was only 9.3 percent last
quarter.  
 Arch Capital  
 At the risk of being top-heavy in insurance, my final
choice is Arch Capital Group Ltd., a reinsurer with headquarters
in Bermuda. Reinsurance is a tricky, but often profitable,
business. Arch and its brethren take on the excess risks that
regular insurance companies wish to lay off.  
 In the September quarter, Arch earned $280 million, up from
$33 million a year earlier. Several other measures of
profitability are perking up, too. The stock sells for eight
times earnings and just over book value.  
 Disclosure note: I own Merck and Arch Capital shares
personally and for clients. I have no long or short positions in
the other stocks discussed in this week’s column.  
 (John Dorfman, chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photograph shows vehicles entering the campus of Merck & Co. headquarters in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey. Photographer: Emile Wamsteker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
