-- True-Blue Massachusetts Is Red Alert to Obama: Margaret Carlson
-- 
-- 2010-01-19T02:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-18/true-blue-massachusetts-is-red-alert-to-obama-margaret-carlson.html

          
          
             If Massachusetts, that bluest of
blue states, goes Republican, say goodbye (or good riddance) to
health-care reform and any chance that the Democrats will be
able to pass much of anything in the Senate. Wisconsin Senator
 Russ Feingold  will struggle to overcome a filibuster just to get
National Cheese Week proclaimed.  
 The special election to fill Ted Kennedy’s seat should have
been a day at the beach for Democrat  Martha Coakley  in a state
so overwhelmingly Democratic that no Republican has won a Senate
election since 1972. Until a month ago, Coakley, the state’s
attorney general, led Republican state senator  Scott Brown  by 30
percentage points, though not because of a good campaign or a
gripping profile.  
 As attorney general, she prosecuted the craven Big Dig
contractors, ex-priest  Paul Shanley  for child molestation and a
couple of high-profile murders. Less admirable was her role in
the most ridiculous of the Satanic-day-care-center cases rampant
in the 1980s. As Middlesex district attorney, she kept  Gerald
Amirault  in jail despite the conclusion of almost everyone else
involved that the evidence he’d raped a toddler with a butcher
knife was entirely made up by children pressured by
interrogators. She was finally overruled in 2004.  
 Coakley doesn’t have a bad personality, just no
personality. She’s up against the telegenic Brown, who once
posed nude for Cosmopolitan magazine and has a daughter who
competed on “ American Idol .” Coakley ran a safe Rose Garden
campaign, without benefit of a Rose Garden, in a place where
people expect to press a little candidate flesh. Instead she met
with politicians, held closed-door fundraisers out of state and
ran ads. Her first negative 30-second spot fell flat when she
misspelled her home state as “Massachusettes.”  
 Airbrushing the Red  
 Meanwhile, Brown tooled around the state in a pickup truck
airbrushing his red past for a blue electorate, less pro-life
and more pro-gay, and claiming that he barely knew who the Tea
Partiers were, until a picture showed up of him in their
company.  
 It doesn’t matter who the inoffensive Brown is. He has one
plank in his platform, health care, and his blunt assessment --
“It kinda stinks” -- has reverberated around the state: He
would provide the  41st vote  Republicans need to kill the
legislation.  
 Coakley’s performance at the last debate shows why she
campaigned in a cocoon. Hours after one of the CIA operatives
killed in the suicide bombing at American headquarters in Kabul
was buried in nearby Bolton, Coakley said there were no more
terrorists in  Afghanistan . She was snarky without being
effective.  
 ‘The People’s Seat’  
 Brown buried her when he put to rest the idea that a
Republican victory would sully Kennedy’s seat: “This is not Ted
Kennedy’s seat, it’s not the Democrats’ seat, it’s the people’s
seat.” By the end of the evening, Brown had raised $1.3 million
via the Internet.  
 A Suffolk University  poll  released on Jan. 14 had Brown
moving ahead of Coakley, 50 percent to 46 percent.  
 The next day, Brown imported former New York City Mayor
Rudy Giuliani -- other Republicans such as  Mitt Romney  and  John McCain  were not invited, presumably because they are too, too
Republican for Brown’s purposes -- and Coakley brought in former
President  Bill Clinton . Vicki Kennedy, the senator’s widow, cut
an ad. President  Barack Obama  sent a video reminding voters that
health care was at stake, then made a campaign stop for Coakley.  
 Brown may have peaked too soon, waking up complacent
Democrats in time to get to the polls. But Coakley may not have
to lose for Obama to lose moderate Democrats. A handful will
surely find their inner  Joe Lieberman . Obama could give Nebraska
residents free Medicaid, Medicare and individual trips to
Disneyland and still not keep Senator Ben Nelson’s health-care
vote.  
 Worry in  Arkansas   
 Senator Blanche Lincoln was already a nervous wreck. If a
Kennedy-endorsed candidate can lose in  Massachusetts  over health
care, what could the voters of Arkansas do to her?  
 Emboldened by his success, Brown began leaning right, which
might stall his big mo’. Two proposals he supported as a
lawmaker -- mandatory insurance and a cap-and-trade program to
cut global warming -- he recently rejected. After running from
Bush-Cheney, he spoke approvingly of waterboarding. After being
a man of the people, he came out against Obama’s proposal to tax
banks to recover part of the bailout.  
 Democratic Governor  Jon Corzine ’s loss in  New Jersey , and
Republican Bob McDonnell’s win in  Virginia , were spun as huge
defeats for Obama’s agenda even though they turned on more
parochial issues.  
 If Brown should win today’s special election, you can
believe the most extreme analysis on the craziest cable show. In
Massachusetts, voters saw what Obama is doing and went out to
stop it.  
 ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        