-- Sabic Net Surges 50% on Petrochemical Volumes, Prices
-- Sean Cronin
-- 2007-04-17T14:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-17/sabic-net-surges-50-on-petrochemical-volumes-prices-update2-.html

          
          
             Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world's biggest chemical company by market value, said first-
quarter profit jumped 50 percent as increasing global demand
for plastics, solvents and polymers buoyed prices and volumes.  
 Net income  rose to 6.3 billion riyals ($1.68 billion),
or 2.51 riyals a share, from 4.2 billion riyals, or 1.67 riyals,
a year earlier, the  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia-based company, also
known as Sabic, said in a statement. Sales advanced 11 percent
and production volumes added by 14 percent, it said.  
 Earnings at Middle Eastern petrochemical companies are
surging as they benefit from an abundance of natural gas and
other raw materials and rising demand in Asia. Sabic's expansion,
which includes a $5 billion refinery complex to be built in
the north-Chinese city of Dalian, may involve $29 billion of
investment by 2010, Moody's Investors Service said this month.  
 ``The figures beat our estimates and show that global
petrochemical demand remains strong,'' said Mohamed El Nabarawy,
a Dubai-based analyst at Shuaa Capital PSC, the largest
investment bank in the United Arab Emirates. El Nabarawy had
estimated net income of 5.7 billion riyals.  
 Sabic published the figures after trading closed. Shares
of the company earlier fell 2.9 percent to 116 riyals. The
stock has advanced 9.7 percent this year, rebounding from a 58
percent drop in 2006, for a market value of 290 billion riyals.
The Tadawul all-share index is down 7.2 percent this year.  
 Price Boost  
 ``Profit for the quarter was the highest since the
company was established,'' Sabic Chief Executive Officer
Mohammed al-Mady said in the statement. Earnings were helped
by ``improved prices for most core products and an increase
in production capacity and sales,'' he said.  
 Formed in 1976 by royal decree, Sabic is 70 percent held
by the Saudi government, with remaining shares publicly traded.  
 More detailed earnings figures are likely to be published
tomorrow, said Justin Powell-Tuck, a spokesman for the company.
Sabic didn't provide specific numbers for sales or volumes.  
 Saudi Arabia's petrochemicals industry grew rapidly after
the Gulf state, which has the world's largest oil reserves,
stopped burning associated gases at the wellhead, freeing up
abundant sources of the feedstock ethane. Sabic's raw-material
costs are as much as 90 percent lower than at rivals such as
BASF AG and Dow Chemical Co., which lack such access.  
 Sabic and state-controlled Saudi Arabian Mining Co. said on
March 12 they'll spend 13 billion riyals on developing phosphate
deposits in the north of the country. Saudi Arabia's Public
Investment Fund is financing a new railroad to transport the
phosphate, used to make fertilizer, 1,200 kilometers to a
plant on the Gulf coast convenient for export to Asian markets.  
 Industries Qatar, an operator of fertilizer, petrochemical
and steel plants, this week reported a 23 percent jump in first-
quarter net income to 893 million riyals ($245 million).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean Cronin in Dubai at 
 scronin2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Jasper at   cjasper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        