-- Alcoa investors bracing for earnings hit
-- 
-- Mon Jul 7, 2008 3:22pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/07/businesspro-alcoa-preview-dc-idUSN0737438220080707

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Investors in Alcoa Inc ( AA.N ) are 
expecting a rough quarterly earnings report on Tuesday from the 
aluminum maker, whose profits are expected to sink nearly 20 
percent as escalating energy and other costs take their toll. 

  Aluminum prices should prove to be a bright spot, although 
the market will be closely eyeing Alcoa's margins to see how 
much of the increased costs for energy and materials, such as 
caustic soda, the company has managed to pass along to its 
customers.  "I think that this quarter's going to be pretty mundane. 
The trends that were in place in the first quarter are going to 
still be there," said Charlie Smith, chief investment officer 
at Fort Pitt Capital Group, which owns about $10 million of 
Alcoa shares.  Analysts are expecting Alcoa's income from continuing 
operations to slide to 66 cents per share from 81 cents a year 
earlier, according to Reuters Estimates.  That forecast is also about 8 percent lower than the 72 
cents per share analysts had predicted in mid-June.  Alcoa had said on June 10 that an explosion at a gas supply 
plant in Australia would trim its second-quarter earnings by 2 
to 3 cents per share.  Surging energy costs, a weak U.S. dollar and worries about 
the health of Alcoa's major customers will be in focus as the 
market digests the first earnings report of the quarter from a 
component of the Dow Jones industrial average.  "The bigger worry for me is really the trends in the auto 
industry and the aerospace industry given that two major 
end-markets for aluminum are really under assault right now," 
said Scott Burns, analyst at Morningstar.  "Even though airlines need to switch to more fuel efficient 
airplanes, they simply won't be able to if they don't have any 
money. The woes in the automotive sector are pretty clear .... 
So I do think in the short-term for Alcoa it's going to be 
tough," he added.  Alcoa shares have slumped 26 percent from their recent high 
in mid-May to around $33 on Monday, bringing their year-to-date 
decline to nearly 10 percent. Still, that drop is not as severe 
as the nearly 16-percent drop in the Dow Jones industrial 
average  .DJI  over the same period.  Alcoa rose 5 cents, or 0.15 percent, to $32.83 on the New 
York Stock Exchange late Monday afternoon.  (Reporting by  Matt Daily  and  Euan Rocha , editing by Richard 
Chang)