-- Coca-Cola agrees to $137.5 mln settlement in case
-- 
-- Sun Jul 6, 2008 8:40pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/07/businesspro-cocacola-settlement-dc-idUSN0635652020080707

 

 PHILADELPHIA  (Reuters) - Coca-Cola Co ( KO.N ) agreed to pay 
$137.5 million to settle a shareholder lawsuit that claimed the 
world's largest soft drink maker artificially inflated sales to 
boost its stock price, according to court documents. 

  The lawsuit, filed in October 2000, claimed that in 1999 
Coca-Cola had forced some bottlers to purchase hundreds of 
millions of dollars of unnecessary beverage concentrate in an 
effort to make its sales seem higher.  Bottlers use the beverage concentrate to make soft drinks.  Institutional investors, led by Carpenters Health & Welface 
Fund of Philadelphia & Vicinity, said the practice, known as 
"channel stuffing," artificially inflated Coca-Cola's results 
and gave investors a false picture of the company's health.  The investors claimed that Coca-Cola had failed to disclose 
material facts about its business and these omissions and 
misrepresentations harmed investors.  Without admitting any wrongdoing, Coca-Cola agreed to the 
settlement on June 26, according to court documents obtained by 
Reuters. The settlement was filed with the court on July 3.  Coca-Cola had previously denied any wrongdoing or 
liability, but agreed to settle the case to avoid lengthy and 
uncertain litigation, the settlement said.  The settlement applies to anyone who acquired Coca-Cola 
common stock from Oct 21, 1999 through March 6, 2000, according 
to the settlement agreement, which was filed with the U.S. 
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia.  In 2005, Coca-Cola settled a similar issue over the sale of 
excess beverage concentrate to bottlers in Japan between 1997 
and 1999.  "Coca-Cola misled investors by failing to disclose 
end-of-period practices that impacted the company's likely 
future operating results," the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission said at the time.  Coca-Cola admitted no wrongdoing and paid no fines in that 
settlement pact, but agreed to cease and desist from future 
securities violations and maintain tight internal controls on 
sales to bottlers and customers. The U.S. Department of Justice 
had closed an investigation without filing charges against the 
company.  (Reporting by  Jessica Hall ; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)  (For more M&A news and our DealZone blog, go to 
 here )