-- J.C. Penney banking on more teen market share
-- By  Alexandria Sage
-- Mon Jul 7, 2008 12:21am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/07/businesspro-jcpenney-dc-idUSN0233383920080707

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - J.C. Penney Co Inc ( JCP.N ) is 
banking on fashion variety and price to spice up back-to-school 
sales to middle America as the retailer's top customers shop 
for bargains in hard times. 

  The period is Penney's second-largest sales season behind 
Christmas, and company executives say teens and their parents 
will come back to the malls if fashions and prices are 
compelling.  "I think we're well positioned for back-to-school even 
though the total economy is a challenge," Mike Boylson, J.C. 
Penney's chief marketing officer, told Reuters. "We still 
believe that there is a big opportunity to gain market share 
because there is still a lot of money being spent out there we 
can get."  The back-to-school season comes as Penney's base of 
middle-income shoppers have been cutting back on spending in 
the wake of the economic downturn.  Sales at stores open at least a year, a key measure of 
retail performance known as same-store sales, have declined 
every month since November.  Profit fell by 50 percent in Penney's most recent quarter 
and Chief Executive Myron Ullman has said 2008 would be "very 
challenging for the American consumer."  Moreover, the teen market as a whole has been struggling. 
Once-immune retailers like Abercrombie & Fitch ( ANF.N ) or 
American Eagle Outfitters ( AEO.N ) have seen falling same-store 
sales this year, and a lack of compelling young women's 
merchandise has kept some shoppers away.  Nevertheless, teens want new clothes for the start of the 
school year, and Penney's dual strategy is to offer styles that 
teens will covet and that won't strain their parents' wallets.  "The style will appeal to the teens and the price will 
certainly work for the parents because we are affordable 
compared to the department and specialty stores out there," 
Boylson said.  Rather than focusing only on the preppy, surf-inspired 
styles seen at more pricey specialty retailers at the mall, 
Penney's says variety will appeal to a larger base of teens, 
and provide fallbacks if one particular look quickly falls out 
of favor.  Six new brands due to hit stores next week range from the 
denim-inspired Decree brand for girls, to the hip-hop feel of 
Fabulosity and the more preppy American Living for young men. 
The company is also adding a new home brand called DormLife.  Investments aimed at attracting teens include adding 
flat-screen televisions to dressing rooms at "off mall" stores, 
those being built away from malls, and adding graphic images 
and new fixtures within departments.  The variety and better surroundings will help Penney's even 
as mall traffic as a whole is down around 4 percent since late 
last year, Boylson said. By contrast, traffic at Penney's 
stores is down about 1 percent, he added.  Boylson said the back-to-school campaign was "a significant 
portion of our annual spend," close to what Penney's spent for 
last year's season.  The retailer is relying less on traditional advertising 
like print and is placing more digital and mobile ads. 
Television commercials riff on the 1980's pop culture classic 
film, "The Breakfast Club," in which teens from various cliques 
find themselves forced together during detention.  A key element of the marketing push is Penney's in-theater 
campaign, in which the back-to-school advertising spots will be 
shown in 93 percent of U.S. movie theater screens just before 
movie trailers, he said.  Whether there is any guarantee that teens, who, like their 
parents, are pressured by high gasoline costs, will shop this 
back-to-school season, Boylson said they, too, would come to 
Penney's for its lower prices on styles they wanted.  "You have a lot of teens that are very responsible. They're 
buying their gas and they're having to work. Teens are smart. 
They're making the decision to spend their money more wisely," 
he said.  (Additional reporting by  Nicole Maestri , editing by Richard 
Chang)