-- Australian Renewable Fuels Hires Macquarie as Adviser
-- Angela Macdonald-Smith
-- 2007-10-03T08:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-03/australian-renewable-fuels-hires-macquarie-as-adviser-update2-.html

          
          
             Australian Renewable Fuels Ltd. (ARW) ,
producer of biodiesel at two plants, hired Macquarie Bank Ltd.
to advise on business development and financing after a drop of
more than 70 percent in its share price in the past 12 months.  
 Macquarie,  Australia 's biggest investment bank, will be
issued with 25.8 million five-year options at a strike price of
19 cents for its services, Perth-based Australian Renewable said
today in a statement to the Australian Stock Exchange. The
options, if exercised, represent about 15 percent of the share
capital, said John Lillywhite, managing director.  
 Australian Renewable in August reported an almost 10-fold
widening in its full-year loss to A$33.7 million ($30 million)
due to higher feedstock costs and as it seeks to reach agreement
on long-term sales contracts for its output. The company has an
agreement to sell biodiesel to  Caltex Australia Ltd. (CTX)  and has been
seeking similar agreements with Australia's other three refiners.  
 ``Our struggles to date to break through with the major oil
companies in line with the rest of the industry has seen our
share price suffer,'' Lillywhite said in a telephone interview.
``We think with Macquarie's assistance we can achieve better
sales outcomes and certainly that will be the catalyst to an
improved share price.''  
 Australian Renewable  shares , which were sold at A$1 apiece
in a May 2005 initial public offer, rose 4.5 cents, or 24
percent, to 23.5 cents in Sydney trading, while the exchange's
benchmark index closed unchanged.  
 The Australian government has a target of 350 million
liters of biofuels production, including biodiesel and ethanol,
by 2010 to help reduce vehicle emissions.  
 Australian production capacity for biodiesel has increased
``well ahead'' of demand, while rapid increases in feedstock
prices has cut ``significantly'' into margins, APAC Biofuel
Consultants, an Adelaide-based consulting firm, said in a June
report.  
 ``It is still likely to take some time for the sector to
move on to a sustainable basis,'' APAC said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Macdonald-Smith in Sydney at 
 amacdonaldsm@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        