-- Saudi Electricity Plans Project Loans, May Sell Bonds
-- Will McSheehy
-- 2007-10-03T13:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-03/saudi-electricity-plans-project-loans-may-sell-bonds-update1-.html

          
          
             Saudi Electricity Co. (SECO) , the Gulf
kingdom's biggest power producer, will seek project-finance
loans next year to help pay for more than $5.5 billion it is
spending on so-called independent power plants, or IPPs.  
 ``Construction costs about 4 million riyals per megawatt,
so we'll need some project finance for the IPPs,'' Ali al- Barrak, chief executive officer, said in a phone interview from
 Riyadh  today. ``We may also sell more conventional or Islamic
bonds for plants we're building,'' he said, declining to
provide a figure.  
 Power demand in  Saudi Arabia , the biggest Arab economy
and home to 27 million people, will increase by about 7 percent
a year over the next 10 years, al-Barrak said in March. State-
controlled Saudi Electricity has said it plans to spend as much
as $7 billion a year over the next decade to build new plants
and upgrade the Saudi  power grid .  
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  is advising Saudi Electricity on its IPP
program, according to the Riyadh-based company's Web site.
Three projects are planned; a 1,200 megawatt plant at Rabigh
near  Jeddah  due to open 2012, a 2,000 megawatt plant west of
Riyadh to open 2013, and a 2,000 megawatt plant in eastern
Saudi Arabia due to open 2014.  
 These 5,200 megawatts of new capacity will cost 20.8
billion riyals ($5.55 billion), according to al-Barrak's
costing. The company is also planning a 1,200 megawatt plant
outside the IPP program for which it may need to sell bonds, he
said. The new projects will add to about 20 billion riyals the
company has already committed to capacity expansion projects.  
 Rating Upgrade  
 Standard & Poor's  on July 25 said it raised Saudi
Electricity's long-term credit rating to AA- from A+ on the
kingdom's forecasts for rising electricity demand and the
company's ``quasi-monopoly position in electricity
generation.''  
 Saudi Electricity in July sold 5 billion riyals of Islamic
bonds, double its initial target, after receiving bids worth
almost 7 billion riyals from investors.  
 The bonds pay 45 basis points more than the Saudi
interbank offered rate, Rajiv Shukla, director of  investment
banking  at sale manager HSBC Holdings Plc in Saudi Arabia, said
July 9. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Saudi Electricity's shares fell 2 percent to at 11.25
riyals in Riyadh today, valuing the company at 46.8 billion
riyals. The shares have fallen by 13 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Will McSheehy in Dubai at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        